
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, Julie P., (d. 1883). The Widow Goldsmith's Daughter .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7821
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The widow Goldsmith's daughter 
            
               V

/

WIDOW GOLDsMIT's DAUGHTER.
JULIE P. SMITH.
" It is upward of;a year and a half that I have been endeavoring to meet you. Now, thanks to
God, I will do so ; and will speak to you my mind. It has been often told me that you were very
desirous of seeing me. Here you have that pleasure; I am Sir John Chandos I Look at me-well .1"
FnossAuT, Page 193.

.

HARTFORD:
PUBLIS hED BY S. W. BARROWS*
1870.-


I

Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1869,
By JULIE P. SMITH,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the
Districtof, Connecticut:

TO - THE
FOUR YOUNG MAIDENS WHOM I LOVE AND WHO LOVE ME;
I DEDICATE TI S STORY,
WRITTEN F.OR THEIR PLEASURE.
JULIE P. SMITH.

-4,

CASE, .,LoCKWooD &amp; BRAn4RD,
PRINTERS AND BINDERS,
RARTFORD, CONN.

d,

LOCKWOOD &amp; 3IANDEVILLE,
E leotrotypera,
ItAftlOafl, COm.


PREFACE.
DEAR YOUNG READER :-I wish to say to you that all the
cat stories in this book are true. Pauline's donkeys are real
donkeys; Flirt a live dog, gay and frisky. As to the rest of the
people, I am not so clear in my mind. I know that for the past
three or four years I have lived much of 4my life in Rosenbloom
and Roaring River. I have watched my favorites, and enjoyed
their fun-Zoe, and Sabrina, and naughty Chandy.  I really
think I love that boy as if he were my own brother ; but it is a
curious fact, that no matter how near I may be to these people,
they never notice me. But then, plain old maids must n't expect
much attention. They never. notice old Miss Pettingil unless
she thrusts herself upon them.
Sometimes my enjoyment of'them is blurred and disturbed by
voices in my ear, and I rouse myself to the fact that people are
talking to me of "soap, and candles, and marketing," and I find
that I am sitting at my little table with a pen in my fingers.
There ! I can't stop, kind reader.  Jan Vedder is out for a
walk with Sonsie Eagan; he's a good looking fellow, and that
Sonsie is going to be a real Irish beauty. Zoe Walsingham'has
got heaps of wedding finery about her.gI must hear her and


PREFACE.

Sabrina talk it up. I love weddings. And my poor dear Chris,
whom I love better than all, is suffering; she needs me. I can-
not stop, really. I am happiest in Roaring liver. They never
bother me there with butcher's bills, nor make me tell what's
to be for dinner. Pretty reader, adieu.
WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DUGHTE
CHAPTER FIRST.
THE GONECUSSETS.
THE name of the place always had been Roaring R
it really seemed a pity to change it, because it was so s
appropriate.
You see the deep waters came rushing, and roaring,:
ing, and tearing over the rocks-tumbling, and frplicing,
rying all the way through the ravines and deep-worn c
has conquered for itself-just as the waters come down
dore-thundering past the "Hog's Back," worrying an
eddying and foaming, and getting up no end of fnss a
about the lofty Turk's Head; vaulting and leaping wi
splash over the big black mill-wheel; singing and
boisterous bender, before it subsides intorippling whisp
wide 'grassy flats, and then into sleepy quiet. A mi
decorousriver, which has seen the folly of it, and call
the frolic freaks of its gay youth.
The winding, narrow valley, which we call the G
spacious enough for Roaring River ana a green-borde
way, was a sweet grassy place, full of echoes, andgay i
time with snowy trilliums, squirrel-corn, and pale puzp

R.
diver, and
Singularly
and dash-
and hur-
hannels it
from La-
I fretting,
nd spray
ith a mad
pouting a
ers in the
ddle-age-
y ignores
ien, just
red road
n spring
le clayto-

"i


8      -    WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

nias. In a sheltered hollow contrived by nature, stood the old
red grist-mill, and a famous resort it was for the farmers. There'
they weighed up affairs and sifted them; discussed the Presi-
dent's veto and the taxes, and the Thanksgiving Proclamation,
and the doings at the last school-meeting, where Captain Slocum,
the great Texan grazier had made a strong running for trustee
against, Esqupe jitchcock, and beat him all hollow,-although the
Esquire was a family man with a host of white-headed children
to educate, and the slim, wiry captain was only a bachelor with-
out expectations.
They were assisted at odd times by the dusty miller in his
floury clothes, his ruddy face and curled eyelashes all patched
and powdered like a court-lady's. Everybody liked "Taffy the
Welchman," as they called the jolly fellow. (His family name
was spelled with "two L's and two H's, two R's, and a W.")
Everybody laughed at his ready jokes and odd grimaces, and his
jolly old songs and pealing haw-haws were a jubilant accompa-
niment to the sounding anthem ofthe ever-rushing water.
The steady old farm-horsers whinnied and conversed in horse-
whispers, and rattled their harness while they waited, sometimes
dozing:patiently off: n the sunshine, and nodding like christians
under a fourteen thly sermon, anil waking up again to pick out
the tender stops off the chicken-grass and red-bloom, noways put
out by the violent politics of their masters, or the heavy roll and
click of the great wheel.
The red, sandy road: flowed the. devious course of Roaring
River all the way up the glen, past the old farm of the Craigen-
fells, a 'operty which Thad come.dow n through four or five gen-
orations and never lost an acrein the transit. wise people, fond
of adjusting -their friept's affairs, would wag theirheads and say
how much better it would be for the:land, and how much more
solid, and respectable, if the present owner were a family man,
instead of an old bachelor greatly given to wandering up and
down :in the world, not caring meuch about the say-so of his .neigh-
-rs. and guiltless of all ambition to -lead .n their town politics.
r peyeal past years he had, ansed himself with sone old

WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              9
Mexican mines, which he'had bought of a    nkrupt company,
and he &amp;ained 'theirtelho11hei, iid pokldR4on initlieif
soundingcaveiris and vaulted bovedas,' and gathered dry sthi fd
scorpions, and horned frogsand spdi's; and all sorts of curious
things, which"a mehomto Crasigenfells in boesad  er e tel-
derly pared for by old Thomas,whoneigned a .his sted.
The grearstoTnansion, l ige enougli fo a'ationaterf, looked
shut up, and itsnfanyvindows gv% oiut'o Fiendly3'leacfos
the travellerin iliiemoonless nightktp e p iit Thlors ashid'Debortili
kept the place 'in'appl-pie order; forilniaister ras acdtoiAed
to  walk in upon 3themwithout an  wan    and loved 'to fid
everything cheer  althou   he had nir hick1     chi
give him 'welcome.
"The house in troth is silent now,
And hash "a 'look of ~gloomn
Icai r4htiern  cT iih e id  ohi
And lights inkeveky room
An4 ihe ,aut the-Jeaves 'of the snow-drop down,
Aid tied up the daflqdi1ly,
And then heWsang as ie bent to his work,
With a heighho wilynilg."
I thik there'eWas every variety of hill= n  raring Rver town-
ship, from the bald'he ded pinnacle whieh out-topped.the.whole
country, to the gentle .ooded slope,where the;bestwintergreens
loved to nestle, ad the trailing Mitchella showed itsvivigreer
as soon aspthe sflo s  melted; and perfumed.the KlongJune days
with the delicate- fragrance of its pretty.white blossorns w hich
seemed to brrow-a pinky blushifromita.elnstered scarleibegnis.
The spreading bee;h-rees we. e ful of.reds and blaeekid grey
squirtek,' r;d'thimble chipmuncks aud ythe graceful d.#ight e&amp;ed
catebirds lbilt their: h s .nd  eoded thit neiglibers, khd
kept them in a flurry nwoodchucks peeped out of their holes to
see what it was all about, nd scratched' their heads while the
mused n the' state' of the'ilrde .        '   '
Gushing 4rihgi-itibbledhtp yahywhere. andsever jnheeia nd
made dhiu    bains 'fothmles aibng thotessfu-beksy


'10     ' :WIDOW GOLDSMITH's DAUGHTER.

which they softly filled to overflowing, and then danced and rip-
pled away in tiny brooklets to join the mad music of Roaring
River.
As I said, it really seemed. a pity to change the name of the.
town to Millville. ' As- the meaning of "finger hoot" is patent,
and the word more suggestive, than "thimble " to describe the
pretty golden shield we love to get atChristmas;.so was. Roaring
River more significant than Millville to the people who had been
boys and girls in the mansions and farm-houses, and who knew
every wild freak and frothy curve of the hurrying waters, and
who had found the haunts and homes of the speckled trout under
the shadow of their favorite rocks, and who had pic-nicked. on the
banks and boated on the sparkling current. But Deacon Wil-
liams, Esquire -Hitchcock, Capt. Slocum, and Mr. John Bisbee,
had gotten up a great association, which they called "The Gone-
cusset Manufacturing Company," and they had- built, first a vast
satinet factory, and then some immense scythe works in the pretty
grassy glen, and so spoilt all the echoes, and the ugly trip-hammers
pounded and crunched their work all day, like remorseless,
sullen, long-headed monsters devouring their prey. These inno-
vations of the rural quiet did not by any means satisfy the enter-
prising Gonecussets. They considered, and behold ! the "water
privilege" was not nearly exhausted,' so they met and took coun-
sel and erected a pin factory in the sweetest spot there was left,
and felt better. In process of time, favored visitors were per-
mitted to'view the papers of pins coming down through a hole in
the ceiling, all stuck in perfect rows like tin soldiers- on drill, and
they were informed by 'the obliging foreman' that "'they did it
themselves," out of promiscuous. heaps up above.! though that
agreeable person politely declined to admit the favored ones to
witness the "how of it," that being conducted in: secrecy and
seclusion.
It must be conceded that these busy Gonecussets -had, as they
were fond of noisily asserting, "done a 'good, deal for Roaring
River? They had brought din° and clatter, and .bustle and go-
sahead, where-all had been sweet rural.quiet. They had builded

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.               11
up a whole street of factory dwellings exactly alike, with peaked
roofs and dormer windows, and all done brown. They had also
imported to inhabit them, men, women, and children, who were
evidently gathered out of the highways and hedges, and had not
as yet sat down to the banquet.
By putting their heads together, maneuvering and planning,
and performing a good deal of, the labor which they called "lay-
ing pipe," part of which seemed to be button-holing people, and
winking and whispering, they had got to have things pretty much
their own way. Now these enterprising Gonecussets, especially
Deacon Williams and Esquire Hitchcock, said and said again,
that Roaring River wasn't any kind of a name for a christian
town, where there were three churches well attended, besides the'
Universalists, and Seventh-day Baptists, and the Second Advent-
ists, and Spiritualists,,who met turn and turn about in the school-
house, and they were going to have it changed to Millville. The
Esquire suggested that Hitchcockville would sound better, (I
suppose as commemorative of his good works,)..and offered to
give land enough for'a park as a christening gift, in case such
name should meet their views, on, condition that his co-workers
should contribute "a spouter in the center on't," (meaning a fuin-
nel for a fountain,) but the generous proposal met with no favor
-Deacon Williams saying:
"No sir, Square, we de-sign to name our teoun Millville, and
if we con-clude to have a park, as you may say in a manner,
we'll just vote one, and save our money."
So they called a town meeting, and voted and carried their
project, and it was all done and clenched before the Roaring Riv-
erites-the Walsinglhams, and Craigenfells, and Claytons, and
Bradshaws, and Goldsmiths, and the rest of the gente descente
had waked up to the subject, and the new hotel was named
"Millville House," and smelled as sweetly as by any other name.
They did talk the matter over among themselves, and held in
a general way the intention to have the great township divided,
and their side of the river set off under its ancient and well-
beloved appellation, and they clung to the name, and also went

,t


12           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGIITER.*'
Onhvisiting a good deal among themselves, and quietly ignoring
the din and progress on the other side of them.
The Millville faction blusteringly asserted that they were the
"first folks," and blazed away, and gave parties, and dressed fine,
and made the most of themselves, but too often with harrowing
visions, of a Mordecai sitting at the king's gate to put them out
of conceit with their grandeur.
CHAPE             EOD
POOR FRED.
OVERSHADOWED by the loft Turk's Head,
the street, sheltered by great oaks, and'nestled
surrounding greenery, stood the family mansion
smiths, built of dark stone, and after the plan of
a wide hall through the center and great square
hand, a kitchen' and wood-house at the back,
barns and sheds farther down and on the other
lane,which stretched away to'the distant"wood I
a vast apple orchard next to the "brook niend
the gnarled, knotty old trees were writhing and
all fair shape; and there stood the cider-mill rea
their fruit at the shortest notice
Spread out beneath the parlor windows was t
garden, and at its foot ran a rapid trbutary o
Here the cives bordered'the straight beds, and
love-apples grew side by side with tall holly
marigolds; matrimony climbed up the window
and tansy grew along the fence, with cinnamon
made out to perfect their blooms; and theaea
much sweeter and richer than any of the new-
that have elbowed it out of pT' ke.
Thus Brookside looked, at least, years befor
mences, while. a young Goldsmith was growing
hood, a motherless, dreamy, passionate, fitful you
large estates en Espagne,. and lived his isolated
the commoner souls around him9 investing thiefeem

away back from
nugly among its
n of the Gold-
the olden time:
rooms on either
1id a cluster'-of
side of green
ot.'"  There was
dw,' here half
'twitiig out of
dy to operate on
he old-fashioned
IRoaringRiver.
the capers and
ocks and ady
s, and smellage
roses that never
r old damask, so
fangded up-starts
'e our story com-
ip' throughboy-
nster who-held
ideal life among
rale portiohiWithY


14           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
attributes and embelishing them  with graces of his own. At'
eighteen he got a "lung difficulty," by exposure to a soaking rain
while he sketched, oblivious to all except the entrancing effects
of the gorgeous autumn coloring, and the feathery gray mists
clinging to the mountain sides. Mr. Goldsmith took counsel of
all the doctors far and'near, in a fever of alarm for the precious
health of his heir, and made haste toship him off to Italy in the
care of Norris Jenkins who had just graduated from Yalerand
desired to pursue his medical studies abroad, and young Fred
departed with a hectic bloom on his fair cheek, and a pang of
love in his heart for a round-faced, black-eyed maiden whom
he used - to watch all through singing-school, (from the trial trip
of do, re, mi, to the triumphant finale of the Hallelujah chorus.)
with his. soul in his eyes; and when in the final interview, he
threw his arms around her and held her to his throbbing heart in
a passionate embrace, she held in her rather red fingers a written
promise of marriage signed- by the foolish youngster, and he was
half mad with love and joy when she vowed to be his as soon as
he returned to claim her.
After five years wandering in foreign lands, roving wherever
his fancy listed, and dipping into all springs of knowledge as his
humor suggested, studying art in Italy, music in Leipsic, and
peasant, life among the gay Bavarians, he was recalled to his
home by his father's death, and returned to find himself a Wealthy
land-holder, and his half-forgotten Juno a sharp-featured, angular
iariden, with a voice like a file and a figure like a bed-post. That
she was narrow and common-place he had discovered long ago,
and hi artist soul shrank from her companionship. When after
a request which was very nearly a threat, he reluctantly paid her
a visit, she exhibited the chain he. had so rapturously welded
upon her wrist, and reminded him of his promise, and brought out
the proofs, he frankly told her that he could not keep his boyish
word to her, for he had no longer a heart. to bestow. Miss Pice
talked about "a suit," "her rights," &amp;c. She had rejected richer
and better offers, to keep troth to him (so she said). ..After a
short struggle between duty and 'honor on one hand, and inclina-

WIDOW GOLDSMITH 'S DAUGHTER.  '     15

tion and a dread of being hauled before the public onthe other,
he told her if she chose to take him, he would do his best, and
he privately thought that the years of his bondage would not be
many. But though he weakly suffered himself to be tied for life
to a woman who married him in the McStinger style, he did .try
to suppress a sigh of regret for the gifted Eleanor Walsingham,
who had been his companion du voyage, and held his susceptible
soul in thrall ever- since, with her gay brilliancy and rich dark
beauty; but that was all lost now, and he took to his home Mrs.
Price Goldsmith; and -let us do her the justice to say that she
brought there thrift and economy, and his affairs greatly prospered
in her hard hands, which, although they felt atrifle rough and
bony in the soft palms, of her young husband, made excellent
butter and cheese. I suppose it could not }e helped that poor
dreamy Fred drifted slowly farther and farther from the partner
of his life, till' they had scarcely a thought in common. Black-
eyed Hannah, in spite of her multiform occupations, found plenty
of time to, get grimer and grimer as she saw her handsome young
spouse occupying himself with his own pursuits, and engrossed
with pleasures in which she had n share. Suffering in silence
was not her forte, however, and as soon as the first awe of his
elegant presence wore off, she wagged her scolding tongue in
season and out of season. Sometimes he replied with odd con-
ceits, and sometimes with playful sarcasms, but later when the
ceaseless clatter broke in upon him, jarring his fine-strung nerves,
and disturbing his thoughts, he would turn away with distrait,
absorbed manner, and making a cup of his hand he would brush
his ears as one drives off a troublesome buzzing insect, and the
lines in his forehead would deepen into a perplexed frown,
and his dreamy eyes take on a far-away mournful look, as if
vainly trying to pursue a flying vision.
He had a studio in the roomy old garret, into which he cut
top-lights and dormer windows, and lie filled it up with an odd
collection of lay figures and studies, and costumes and bronzes,
and costly knick-knacks which he had gathered together in his


16)          WIDOW GOLDSMITU' DAUGHTER.
foreign le, and here he was as much isolated as though he in-
habited, a separate planet.
The old-fashione4 garden took a new look abo under his super-
v    . He builded ot-houses, and draperies, and conservatories.
The ld squatters, the elves, the capers, and the love-apples, ga
place to tulips from Holland, roses fro Provence 'and climb
beauties fom Brazil. Gorgeous ,Aust'alian plants flaunted'their
le  avesoanga y coorn g under his glass shelters, and tan-
Spassion lowers and jessamines wreathed and twisted about
the slender pillars, andhere Fred       really enjoyed his
lifeand he-worked with the untiring energyand unflagging zeal.
which he inygbrought to such pursuits as gave lhim pleasure
His careful, money-loviig wife grumbled at the expense, a d
"frippery nonsense," but with no other result than to cause him
to doublt-lock himself into his atalier out of her reach.
From this ill-assorted union there cametwo children, the first
a great healthy fellow who got lusty and heavy with his 'six
months oflife, and yet had no other name'than "iggie-wide
whichis ehandly"achristian appellation. The another desired to
call 'in Ze'       after her "gran'therePrice," but Fred made
wry faces at   mention, and said so many queer things about
it that he quiterasped her temper, and she snorted and tossed
her ed, and snapped her black 'eyes spitefully, all which demon-
strations'we grieve to say were totally lost upon their unconscious
mark,' foi' he"was by that time dreaming with his head in his thin
white hand, while the other played absently with the tassels of
his flowered-dressing-gown, and his eyes looking away off toward
the middle ages. After a while he rose slowly and brought down
a huge, quarto volume of Froisart, and running his'fingerdo .
it pages lie at' length paused  adrunigthshige dw
is                         with a genial smile at 'his help-
meet, entirely oblivious of the truculent state of her mind
regarded forean instant the boy whom shewas vigorously rocing
"  ee it is, mother," said he, with a finger on'the page; -' don'
rock "now please ; that creaking old machine  you call your easy
chair has a ghastly voice that makes my flesh creep. 'm gong
to read a little to you."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

{

o
r

"Sir John Chandos, who was a strong and bold knight, cool in
all his undertakings, had his banner advanced before him, sur-
rounded by his men, with his scutcheon above his arms. He
himself was dressed in a large robe. which fell to the ground,
blazoned with his arms on white sarcenet, argent a- pile gules, on
his heart and 'on his back ; so that ,he appeared resolved upon
some adventurous undertaking, and in this state, sword in and,
he advanced toward the enemy. When he was struck down by
the fatal lance, the other knights were like men, distracted at
seeing their master lie thus upon the 'ground. The Barons and
gentlemen of 'Poiton were also struck with grief when they saw
their seneschal Sir John Chandos lying in so dolefulRa way, and
they began grievously to lament his loss, saying: Oh, Flower of
Knighthood ! Oh, Sir John Chandos ! Cursed be the forging
of that lance which wounded thee! And they wrung their hands
.and tore their hair, more especially those of his own.household.
God havg mercy on his soul, for never since an hundred years
did there exist among the English one more courteous, nor fuller
of every virtue and good quality than him."
"Therefore, my good Hannah, may it please' you that we
christen our noble child 'John Chandos,' because -he ;excelled in
all knightly virtues, such as we wish the youngster to possess.
More especially I must note this remark of the old chronicler,-
'so much was he beloved that the king of England and all his
court would believe what he said in preference to all others."
The good wife smiled grimly in' answer to this appeal, and
trotted the curly-headed fellow on her lap, till his soft hair rose
and. fell like a golden mist; and she also vouchsafed some cutting
remarks upon the  lly, not to say sinfulness, of naming a chris-
tian baby after a n sty, fighting old heathen-" not that I know
anything about hi  or his doings; I should hope I was better
fetched up than to ,aste my .precious time-in reading novels and
trifling story-books when there was, plenty of work to do. If I
was to speak my r1ind, which is of course of no consequence, I
should say that there's a. plenty of high-sounding names in the
Holy Bible to choose from; but don't gp through the ceremony

17


' 9

WIDOW .OLDMIT'S DAUGHTER.

of asking my opinionw--go on your own *ay, do; I hope I know
my place by this time."
John Chandos got his christening,.and flourished, and bore his
name gal.antly, and developed with each passing day into a mer-
ry-tempered, gay, happy'fellow, who saw'the sunny side of things,
and all whose clouds had silver' linings.- Two years after him
there alighted upon the home-hearth a lovely little girl-"faii.,
fair, with 'golden hair."  Again the name-question was agitated.
Mrs. Goldsmith, who still resented the slight upon gran'ther
Price, secretly resolved' to have 'her own wag this time, and call
her little woman Patience.
'And I do hope she'll have it, too," said she; "for I'm sure we
need enough on't, so put on as we be."
Again the husband brought down his book, and this time hor-
ror of horrors ! it was poetry ! He read smoothly and enjoyingly
on in his sweet voice, wrapt in the lovely vision he conjured for
himself.
Christabel," said he, disturbed at last by Sir John Chandos
who clambered on his knee, and insisted on looking his fill at the
picture of the pretty lady--" Christabel is a charming name; my
dear; don't you think so ?
" Sniff, sniff--no, I don't think nothing of the sort. If you
must take a'name out of that hifalutin stuff that the dog can't 'un-
derstand, why don't you take t'other one ? I'm sure it's mpuch the
finest sounding' of the two. You can't pull the wool over my
eyes. I know you would' say Eleanor if you dast to; but let'
me tell you, Fred Goldsmith, once for all, that won't never be the
naming of a child of mine, not while I'm in myfright mind; so
you needn't talk about it., I've suffered in silence, and Put up
*with things 'enough, but that is a dose I shan't take, not if I'm
choked fortt"  She drew in her sharp chin and swallowed some-
thing, and pinched in her blue lips, and snapped her teeth to-
gether, and gazed at him, grim and' belligerent. The young hus-
band's cheek flushed and he glanced wistfully at her a moment,
as if about to reply. Then sighing,' he 'put his boy away from his
lap softly, and set the volume carefully in its place on the shelf.

18

Then plunging his hands'deep in his dressing-gown pockets, he
wrapped that garment about him, and passed out, at the wide hall
door, under the old' oaks, where he walked up and down, whistling
leasntly, till the  ight fell, and the sharp voice of his most
adorable called him back from that brief glorious past he had
been foolishlylhym over, to the work-a-day world which she
virtuously inhabited.
"Mr.. Goldsmith! do you want to catch your everlasting death
a-cold out there, in the dew and damp? If you do, just go on
tramping up and down in them there slips on yourfeet. For
pity sakes! as if I hadn't enough to do without nussin sick folks.
I declare to goodness,' you take as much lookin' after as a baby."
Chandos and Christabel were presentable children; both like
their father, fine and clear in form and coloring,, and were kept
scrubbed and combed, and "cleaned up"' within an inch of' their
lives. Mrs. Goldsmith was accustomed to boast to her friendsF:
"My Chandos never gets a speck of dirt onto him noway';
and he is / as dainty about tumbling himself as: a pussypcaf.
He takes arter my folks there-the Prices was all as neatas
wax.
Both children had the large soft brown eyes and clear-cut fea-
tures which made the father so handsome, and both had the
springing grace of motion which belongs of right to all healthy
young animals. Great pride and comfort did Fred take in his
off-shoots, the' little maiden especially. She was his pet and
plaything, the companion of his walks and fishing excursions, and
when but a "wee tot " she would sit patiently beside him on the
grassy bank and watch his line over the rippling brook, and she
shared his exultation when he landed a big grayling, examining
the prize, admiring its shining scales, with a little sigh of womanish
pity for its panting struggle, which she took care always to hide.
She learned early to comprehend her father's moods, and to syme
pathise with them. The sharp words whi-ch her mother darted
at him' wounded and cut her to the heart sorely, though they
passed by him as the idle wind which he;regarded not.

WIDOW " GOLD SMITf!'S DAiWHTER.


WIDOW  GO DS IT#'s -tA   '~

des taught both children.steadily and with loving perseverance,
and wondrous-'was the progress which they ade under so judi-
cious ,a tutor  Little Chris especially showepan. aptitude for all
sorts of knowledge, and she.made herbariums and collected spec-
imen, and sketphed end painted, besides fo~lowing close up to
Chndy n his studies, and at tin years old, to her fatJyr's infinite
delight, and her mother's devout horror, 1she began. to scribble
verses.Thbat practical, work-lo ing mattongroaaed over the
certainty, which shellooked upon as eleiched, that the child would
be a good-for-naught and a east-away. She could beat into her
no love for "sewing-work."
"Imade a ruffle shirt for my father," said she, with drawn out
lips, "before I. was fiveyears old besides piecin' a strawberry
bed-quit!i and do look at that child idlin' round without a bit of
rk or a single needle in her fingers 1" And she made it a
subject_'of-prayer in her closet with-the door open, and in a voice
like atowncrier's, that her husband might be plucked as a brand
from the burning, though Satan desired to have him that he might
sift him as:wheat ! and that-her children, whop she had dedicated
to the foreign missionary work from their birth, might be saved_
from the beggarly elements of this world, aid the jaws of the
evil one, who goes roaring about like a lion seeking whom he may
devQur somebody, and, encourages painting and daubing, and the
like wicked wasteful tom-fooleryy And she looked: stiffer and
grimer, and thought better -of herself for a week afterwards.
Mr. Goldsmith heard ; the petition with -anamused .smile, and a
sly twinkle of his brown eyes at Chris, and he was provokingly
dry and queer in his Wit,:as well as courtly in his politeness; but
he; kept - as - steadilykon his chosen course as though no especial'
fervor -had ,ben shouted- out in his behalf. Tin the studio, the
,garden, andthe charminggold library, which he had fitted up with
- such artistictaste and harmony of -color and adornment as filled
-little Chris=with pleasure unexplainable, he was , king. The rest
of the.place his wife governed to her liking, and governed well,
but here no autocrat was ever more absolute and}mnubanageable;

2V

Q

and the young ones drank deep at the streauns of knowledge he
pointed out to them.
Little Chris 'lad-a perfect wealth of chestnut eurlsrieh, heavy,
shining. They huig over her white shoulders in wavy masse'
which delighted' her father's eyes, and he painted her head a -
hundied tikes. She wad= his"'Venus do Mee' hia "Innocence,"
"Grandpa's Pet," "Qnen Honeybell," and "Fairy Night -Sar,"
and everything where lovely, dipped beauty eould be'depieted;
and he used to roll the satin 'ring3 about phis fingers, while he
was reading, while he was:dreaming, while he was- smoking and
talking.
i-Fred,"'said Alec Graiginfells one day, when the- two bosom
,riends *ere smoking in the. library, lying off and digesting one
of thematron's well-cooked dinners,-and Chris as usual leaned
upon her father's heart, caressed after his sweet,,quaint fashion,
"Fred, do you- know that child's head reminds me of my cousin
Eleanor--odd, is'nt it?  Lady ell's hair is blacker than the
raven's wing, and this little off-shootof yours has locks with the
golden sheen of the sun-ripe chestnut. It, ,ust 'bethe poise or
the-hum---well I can't pretend .to say what' it is,-but I always
think of my stately cousin when I look at her."
Fred Goldsmith-started and flushed 'crimson, so that the habit- -
ual hectic of his cheek was lost in the deeper glow. "I've -not
seen Miss Walsinghatforso long," -he stammered.
"You two were rare friends, though.- Remember that-lasts
night ohrthe {Poroise?'.. What a gay old moo there was, and
how you tarried Ou the deck from.the rising;to the going-downi
thereof? I was up at Nell's place last week. What aqueer
whim it was of hers't&amp; set 'up in the aggicultaral line.rfver paid
her a visit ?"'--                             -
"No,"answeredF'red looking wistfilly afar off,ad playing
with -restless fingers airing his darling's curls. " I heard-sene
thingjf it,'bu -3
"O O  ye she'stgrggrlartiyettled In Merry Bank  o-And -he
calls her lhieethiQuine Bush;'-ust'like hef."a-e-  ,

21

WIDOW GOLD SMITH 'S -DAUGHTJR.    2

F


22           wIDow   osGOLD rITH'S DAUGHTER.

Any answer was hindered by the appearance of Mrs. Gold-
smith, glowering in the doorway:  -
"You come out here this instant minute, you Christabel! and
get your hair fixed up. It's a great deal more bother than it is
-worth, and I've a good mind to snip 'em off, and done with it."
This was a frequently recurring threat on the part of the im-
patient dame, and Fred was accustomed to entreat for thecurls
in such quaint, funny language, and with such oddequeer quota-,
tions as made Chris laugh, and to offer to dress them himself, and
he once made the attempt, and the two frolicked like gleeful
children while trying to smooth their tangled luxuriance, and
bring them into seemly order.. He loved to see the wind tossing
them about and playing with them. .In fact, his beautiful daughter,
was always a picture 'and a-study to him, and the child loved her,
pretty hair for her father's sake. It- was charming, this perfect
understan ing and the satisfaction these two delicate natures had,
in eachgpther. The good wife looked grim and jealous over it,
and resented it: as a personal affront. Seeing them merry and
chatty, she would make sudden dashes upon them out.under the
oaks, or sitting on the shady piazza with books and pencils, and
pounce upon Chris and carry her off in virtuous triumph to the
hateful sewing-work. Mayhap she had been more pitiful and
considerate if her little, soul had been less bent upon linking and
saving, and she had taken time to observe her husband's narrow-
ing chest, and his, hollow cheeks, and the ever deepening lines'
around hismouth, sorrowful lines,:as of a grief battled with in
secret, and the often contractions of his brows with sharp and
sudden pain.
When Christabel was ten ,years old, Chandos was- sent to
school. Mr. Goldsmith was so often languid and tired that the
hearty,afun-making, roistering boy was too much for his nerves,
and an academy was :carefully selected for him, where physical
training was looked after as well as intellectual development and
where he got on, as he did, everywhere, admirably, making the
tuost and the best of everything=; had his fast- pony, and his fast,
"cockle-shell," and was the=pet and favorite of masters and boys;

and, the worthy matron, who was a childless widow, used to tuck
him into his bed every night with a hearty kiss on both of his
rosy cheeks, and would wipe off furtive -tears when he returned
her motherly caress.
For two delightful years Christabel had her ppAll to herself,
studying, reading, fishing, -sporting; riding, floyer-working. .In
her after days of joy or sorrow, she always .dwelt upon these
glorious times, even when they had got so far away from her in
her journey as to be but, a golden dream of the dead past.'-
The slant rays of the September sunshine made the old library
very cheersome ; and the red maple leaves glinted and peeped in
at the windows, and cast fanciful shadows on the rows and piles
of books, and the globes and cabinets. Mr. Goldsmith was too
much absorbed to observe details, though his .harmonious sur-
roundings affected him agreeably, and his face wore. a pleasant,
genial, abstracted smile while he worked.
He was filling in a gay poem he had written for Christabel's
birthday, with illustrations and embellishments. The initial letter
he was busy -on, shone resplendent in ultra-meirine and vermilion,
and 'he was just overlaying it with gold tracery, which required
delicate handling, when a sound smote his ear which could always
recall him from the most absorbed musing or intense study. It
was his darling's voice, full of trouble, entreating and protesting,
dominated by her mother's sharp tones, shrill, ear-splitting, scold-
ing drearily.
He got up hastily And stepped acrossthe wide hall into:the
sitting-room doorway, and he pressed his lips together, and stood
quiet and still, unnoticed by the good wife, who was brandishing
a pair of shears over the devoted head of his little pet,. who,
poor child, shrank as far as possible away from the fatal weapon,
which she regarded with frightened gaze, her face the while half
stormy, half pitiful, and both .her hands about the mass of chest-
nut curls  hich her papa loved.
"Don't, mother! don't !. You will' not! you cannot!  Papa
will be' too sorry; he will be angry 1"

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'&amp; DAUGHTER.


WIDOW GOLDSUITH'S DAUGHTER.

25

"Fiddlesticks! Don't, and won't, and can't; what kind of
talk do you call that to me?  He can be sorry, and angry,
and anything else he likes; as for loving your hair, don't talk
.. g
such wicked foolishness. I guess he would turn his tune if,
he had to comb a nd brush it forty times a day ; to see him fussing
and pulling that mop around .makes me disgusted'vick. I shan't
bother no more, you're too big; I'm goin' to cut it off for all him
lethitnhelp himself"  The niatron talked .through a slim slit
in her 'blue lips with her teeth tight settogether, and her facial
muscles stiff and rigid,,though her red-black eyes glowed like
fiery coals. "You won't never be of no account, nohow, to take
care of yourself. I know jest exactly where you get your shift-
less ways yyou've.got to be broke of 'em, if -it breaks your neck.
It's no use begging' for this nasty, fruzzlin' mess of hair, because
I hate the sight o't; so put down your paws, and stop your
screechin', enough to scare the owls."
They must have been very timid owls -indeed who could be
seared by Chris's plaintive little- voice.
"Indeed, another, I will take care.of my hair and keep it nicely.
I'll brush it myself;-you shall never be troubled about it any
more, only don't cut off my curls, dear mother, don't !
The reinorseless shears made a sharp snip, and one rich curl
lay coiling on the, floor. a heap of rippling satin.
Oh, my pretty =hair," moaned -Chris, regarding it ruefully.
"Papa said I must always wear it so; he told me it brought back
his.yeih to look at it, and he kissed it s many times ; oh dear!
he Writ ever kiss it any more, and I shall be so ugly."
A slippboxron the ear stbppedthe child's sobing expostua-
tions} and she staggered back against the wall, and stood mute
andmotJofiless, gazing fearfully at the spectacle her mother made
in herfury, and  wishing she had not spoken.
Th oihe asorespot in-the hard woman's heart or temper was
touched, and she looked a grim repellant old hag, gowemg as if
she had etader indrei heart'and:brandishing her shears, her face
all hardened into drawn-downlines, her thin  air scrap back
and stiff "beau catchers" pasted in front of her stingy ears.

'Mr. Goldsmith stepped quietly forward, his hands plunged deep
in his dressing-gown pockets, and clenched there. His face was
very pale save the one crimson spot in either cheek, and his aes
shone with dangerous light. The hand which he drew forth and
extended to take the shears from the good wife trembled a little
but his voice kept its even, musical tone.
"Ifyou please, Hannah, I will guard those fateful weapons ;
they are not pretty in outline, being something clumsy as well as
rusty, and scarcely fitted, to make acquaintance with the cherished
tresses of my tender darling.' I have but a word to say; don't
cut off my daughter's curls, either now or ever.. I command you
to leave their luxuriant beauty alone; it is God-given, and she
shall not be despoiled. It is few enough requests I have :ever
.troubled you with ; this is a command, and I will have you obey
yme." He stooped and picked up the shining coil from the floor,
and smoothing it carefully in his hand he said:
"'Twas a pity to sunder this pretty thing, but it shall not be
lost, I will keep it safely, my Hannah; we may sometimes; when
our little Chris is wooed and married, or gone from us, 1q91 at it
tenderly for her childish sake."
You can talk just as buttery as you've a mind to, hut 'words
don't cost anything. How dared you hint to her 'that her crls
were like-"
"Hannah .tannah!. he. interrupted hastily, "I've been a
,true and faithful husband to you. You knew well when you took
me that I could not love you desperately (smiIig). You mar-
ried me of your own free will, with your eyes very wide open,
and you must bear with me the best you can. I think I shall not
trouble you long. Madam Goldsmith will be a gay widow-"
I wish I hadn't never sot eyes onto you; I've had to fight my
way alone. You haven't troubled your head about me, no how--
painting and daubing, and gunning and. fishing, anything.-and
everything before your wife. I wish in my soul you'd a married
your Eleanor Walsingham, and done with 'it. I've..heard you
call her in your sleep, and me your lawful wife. byyour side, and
the baby a cryin' half the night, and me wide, aak.['vh d

WIDOW, GOLDSMWTH'S DAUGHTER.

24


26          wIDOW do't s   fTn's DAUGHTER.

iI

a thankless life .on't; I wish to gracious goodness I was out of
your way, so as you might take her now. That is the way it goes;
the first wife pinches, and saves, and digs, and delves,, for the
next one to step in: with her frippery and her furbelows, and
walking, and minclu', and akin' a tinklin' with her feet. Yes,
and I'm no more account to you, Fred Goldsmith, than a pig -
weed in your garden, and the mother and wife I am, too! Paugh !
I'i sick on't 1"
"Believe me, ray Hannah, I appreciate your labors. If I
have unwittingly drifted away from you and neglected you, (and
I am afraid I have,) and occupied myself with my books and pic-
tures too raich, forgive ine; I didn't' mean to do it'; I'll behave
better in future. We have got so far along in harness, do let us
jog on to the end of oar lives as God wills, and keep the ineomi
patibility of temper as much in the background as we are able.
I haves been sadly to blame, but it isn't too late to do better.'
His fare settled from the half ,mocking smile it had worn into
a sorrowful patience, and he sighed drearily.
"I no need to have waited for you to come back; folks threw
it up at me that you was stayin' out in them forrin parts to get
rid of 'me. I had offers enough; I night have got minrried forty
times if I hadn't had a tender conscience. -Sam Risley wanted
me; he's a railroad contractor now, and as rich as cream ; I've
seen 'liiri light his cigar with a five dollar bill, he was that free
with his money; but no, I would stick to my protnise ; I'd made
it, and t wasn't goin' to ,let no one step in here where I'd sot up
ay mind to live myself."
"And you would rake ie stick to mine" murmured Fred, with
a whimsical grimace. " I grieve deeply with you, my Ik nnah,
that you rejected 'the glorious Sati to link your fate' with your
unworthy servant; but as you deliberately thought' best to do so,
pray let us. not wrangle, and worry, and devour each other. Come,
My HIanah, let us be comfortable and quiet together. I mean
to be a gdod husband all the balance of my life, and you inust let
the dead past bury its dead. Yoh shall ever have cause to com-
lai o me again."

He smiled pleasantly at her, and made an offer to grasp' her
hand, but she snatched it away, and ejaculated,-
"Fiddlesticks,! don't be a fool! All I ask of you is to let me
alone. You go your ways and I shall go mine. I don't make
no account of your soft speeches; you needn't pretend to care
anything about me, for I know .it's all pretending, and don't
amount to that (snapping her fingers). You've sot that child up
against me," (pointing to Chris, a trembling, frightened listener
to this matrimonial interchange of sweets, who stood with her
hands clasped and her eyes fired on her father's face,) "you've
let her hear words that never ought to have been spoken. You're
all the while teachin' the children on purpose to set 'em up and
make 'em despise the mother that brought 'em into this sinful
world that's all full of men and all sorts of wickedness. I won't
never forgive you, no never ! not to my dyin' day!"
She stalked stiffly out of the room, and her heavy steps sound-
ed on the stairs, and along the passage above, and the door
banged. after her with what dear Charley Lamb used to call "a
wooden damn."
Mr. Goldsmith's thin hand was by this time brushing his ear,
the. buzzing troubled him,:and when it ceased he stood ,motionless
and abstracted, gazing at the shears which be ,still 'grasped, till
recalled to 'himself by the pressure of Chris's little hands clasping
sofly, about his wrist; then he roused and laid away the 'ugly
weapons, and smiled fondly upon the rosy fingers, and took them
tenderly within his own,.and turning, the two paced slowly up
and down the hall together.
"I'm afraid I'm but a poor papa after all to this little 'one, this.
lovely lady Christabel whom her father loves so well  I've made'
plenty of mistakes in my life, but you won't judge me, darling."
Chris tried her voice, but there was a swelling in her throat,
and she dropped her'face upon, the dear hands which held hers,
with one df her pretty caresses. She knew intuitively how dis-
turbed and agitated he, was, and ishe felt the 'blood leaping hotly
along his wrist, and watched. how his features contracted with
pain, and noted that he walked with a. hand pressed 'tightly over'

WIDOW    GOLD&amp;1MItfl'S. D &amp; GUT11ES.

,


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

28

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

his heart; and she tried bravely to keep down her sobs while she
fastened her eyes upon his haggard face.
They two had their solitary tea together, the good wife refusing.
to come down; she could be sulky and sullen as well as vindic-.
tive. So Chris made the tea and toasted the bread, and after-
wards she nestled up to her papa on the library sofa; and he
talked ,tenderly and lovingly to her, coiling her curls about his
thin fingers, and he held her close and sang to her, and at bed-
time she kaelt by his side and offered her evening prayer as was
her habit, and he fervently joined his petitions with hers, in so
child-like, trusting a way, as brought them in, closer harmony,
and also clearly proved that whatever false steps he might have
made in hisshort life, and sudden trippings, he loved .the dear
Christ who bears our griefs and carries our sorrows; who remem-
brs that we are but poor creatures, full of mistakes and lame-
endeavors, but in his great love and condescension will take us
"just as we are."  It seemed impossible for poor Fred to part
with;his daughter, and he recalled. her again and again, aird held
her to his heart, and she felt warm tears on her cheek as he
coupled.-her, name and Chandy's ina last blessing...
" God will take care of you," said he; "always remember how
much your poor papa loved you."
After she went away, weeping silently, he walked slowly up to
his wife's, room and knocked, and called her by name. He got
no reply, and; softly lifted the latch-it was fastened. He hesita-
ted a moment, and the blood mounted hotly in his cheeks. He
spoke again.. She within felt a meantriumph that he without
should stand and ask for admission ; she kept stubborn silence, and
he went slowly down again to.the library, and throwing himself on
the sofa, he turned his face to the wall. Whether his last thoughts
were tender forgiveness for his wife, or a pitiful regret for the lost
Eleanor, his God only knows, for Chris found him in the morning
dead and cold,.the coil of chestnut hair twisted about his wasted
fingers. They told.-her he had disease of the heart.
When the child, recovered from the stunning shdck, she found
herself alone. The funeral weas ,over and Chandos gone back to

school; nobody seemed to mind about her in those first dreary
weeks, and she mourned in' silence her irreparable loss. She
kept as much as possible out of her mother's way, and got no
encouragement of look or tone to approach her; and she went
over the favorite haunts which her papa's presence had made so
charming to her, and in the soft autumn weather she was often
out from sunrise till twilight, without remark. Sometimes she
locked herself into the library, and tried to study and sketch as
she thought he would have had her. She took up her lessons
where he had ended them, and struggled hard in all things to
raise herself up to his standard, always alone. She never told a
soul what'she had heard, but buried it deep in her breast. The
memory never left her, and it kept her shy, silent, and reserved.
Poor friendless little Chris !
"She felt the mother-want about the world,
And still went seeking like a bleating lamb
Left out at night in shutting up the fold.
As restless as a nest-deserted bird,
Grown chill through something being away,
Though what, it knows not."
Mrs. Goldsmith soon turned to her schemes and her savings
which should make Chandos rich. She sold all the plants out of
the green-houses and turned them into hen-coops and raised eggs
for the Gonecussets. Thomas took the whole of the flowers and
gave them plenty of room in the Craigenfell's conservatories, just
as his master would have ordered had he been at home.
" They be all yours, sweet little maid," said he to Chris, "all
the same as ever; and I'll be your old gardener, and tend them
for you, and you'll come up and see them sometimes, aid Deb
shall make frost-cakes and cherry-pats for you. Ah, my own
dear Bessie," he added aside, "the daisies 'l be springing above
your pretty head, and no child-music more in the house."
Mrs. Goldsmith also drove Chris out of the studio, and double-
locked the doors; and she went to more lectures, and missionary
societies, and began a new course of reading, of which " The

'11


WIDOW GOLf$MITH's DAUGHTER.
Great Tribulation," was the heaviest volume, interspersed with
tracts, ",Run and Speak to that Young Man," " The Door to the
Pit," &amp;c. She infused a fresh portion of fire and brimstone into
her creed in order to preserve her spiritual' equilibrium. She
avoided all the beautiful,'sweet, tender delights of our dear reli-
gioi, and reveled in thundering and curses ; and her increasing
devotion did not beautify her visage, or inolify her temper, which
on the contrary :got daily grimer and sourer. She'had no sum-
mer in her year.

CHAPTER THIRD.
THE HORSE SHOE.

IT was snowing very fast, and no one who could remain in
doors thought of stirring out. Every thing looked desolate and
forlorn. All .the naked trees stood up and waved their arms
about, gaunt and forbidding. The houses looked black and de-
serted. The streets were in that uncomfortable state  of sloppi-
ness which somebody has called "two slumps to one sposh and a
spatter." A great tortoise-shell cat was :out in it, crossing the
road-shaking his paws and picking his way daintily-perrowing
as he disappeared under the picket fence and was let in through a
tiny crack of the kitchen door by Christabel 'Goldsmith, who had
been watching him. Ruth Blair had also been watching him
through the clean, bright window of her cottage, which the little
woman would persist in calling '&amp; The Horse Shoe."
Within it was bosy and complete, and the youthful matron
thought how comfortable it looked, as she seated herself before
the nice wood fire and began nursing her very pretty baby. The
furniture was tastefully arranged and neatly dusted, the gay rag
carpet cleanly swept, the boy good-humored and agreeable.;- In
fact he was composing himself, or being composed by ceaseless
trotting, which the cheerful rosy-cheeked mother commenced as
soon as she seated herself, while she sang what she- had so often
sung before as to have gotten together quite a rhythmical lullaby
-which was as composing to the youngster as a sleep-powder to
a fine lady:

J.

i
F
z
:,-
w
r"
Ci
.
,M$
''i.
i"
1
'i
//
l
f"
r
}
h


32         wIDoW GOLDSMITH'S DA1tGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       3

" The cricket sings under the hearth,
The bird is asleep on the tree,
The owl comes out, and stares about,
Some poor little mouse to see.
But- my baby lies snug and close,
His curly pate on my arm,
And his cunning little dimpled toes
Stuck out to the fire to warm;
Trot, trot, hum, hum,"
Stuck-out to the fire to warm,"
She was nursing herfirst man-child. None but a young mother
can fully comprehend the soul-full joy which welled up in her
heart' and beautified: her life. She had to suffer privation and
fatigue in her devotion to the boy; she must sit often in the.fad-
ing twilight, that time of gay neighborhood visiting in which
young village maidens so much delight, hushing the cries and ad-.
ministering to the, needs of the little one, when she used in the
days of light-hearted girlhood to be abroad, enjoying the fresh,
cool air. She must deny herself many of the free pleasures of*
the life she had laid down -and turned her back upon; but she
cast no sighs after them, her new happiness was so absorbing in.
its rich fruition.
The rocking and trotting and cooing lullaby had the desired
effect; "Pigeon" had already closed his eyes, and Was sinking
away into a soft, happy, slumber, and Ruth watched his gentle
breathing, which parted his pretty lips and disclosed his four little
white teeth, with pardonable young-mother rapture. The hush-
iag refrain was subsiding into a prolonged "hum-m-m-m," and she
was just gathering the -child together in her arms, preparatory to
laying. him in his crib, when there sounded a soft, hesitating,
doubtful. rapping on the kitchen door; timid and low as it was,
Pigeon heard it, and started up directly, wide-awake}and curious,
so Ruth Blair was.forced to take .him on her arm and open the
door   Her young husband was only a journeyman blacksmith,
4o she kept no servants, and dear little Pigeon was not given
over to the strange devices of any Irish irresponsible, bent on
finding "aise,' and covering her shortcomings with blarney; con-'

sequently cunning little Pigeon had a happy, fearless look, which
the poor little inhabitants of gorgeous third-story nurseries often
make us yearn to see on their pinched, pale, dreary little faces.
Mama in her drawing-room vaunts to her visitors the treasure
she has in Bridget--" so devoted to my baby," says she, " she
worships the child !" Ah, if poor baby could only talk, what a
different; tale she would tell; her frightened eyes tell it now, and
the hopeless despair in her old. little face, when she is carried
away. But the visitors are too busy admiring.the "riotous nee-
dIe-work " on her dress to observe it, and the mama sends her off
with a hasty dismissal, and "entertains" her= guests.
The open door let in a rough blast which. shook up Pigeon's.
curls rarely, and filled his 'eyes with tears, and ,also whisked up
all the window shades ; and it disclosed a little shivering figure,
which judging from the breadth of his garments ought to have
been manly, but as he failed in stature, his apparel was rolled over
and over on his legs and arms, in order that they might get out
far enough for locomotive and other practical purposes.. Iish, of
the florid 'type, *as- written all over him; there was. the Wide.
hanging mouth, the pale, watery eyes, stiff, red hair, the freckled
visage, spotted and sun-baked. Not beautiful nor interesting, but
he was ragged, dirty, and half frozen, a childish "miserable" to
make the heart ache, and of'ill things to be seen in Roaring
River, not the vestige of a stocking on his purple, filthy feet.
He held a white pitcher in his chapped hands, all seained and
grimed, and he pushed it toward Ruth, with a look in her face
half beseeching, half'impudent
"Could you be plase to spare me mother a°sup of milk, ma'ani,
for the new baby, and it's the rest of us'll be takin' a drop along
wid it, an' ye'll be so motherly tinder as to gi\e it; tois ?"
" Whose child are you ?" asked Ruth, eyeing' the knowing,
hard young face, turned fearlessly up to hers, With little favor.
Where do you come froin?"  Then glancing .down;at the bare
feet standing in the muddy splash, she added quickly::
"Good gracious, boy, why don't you come in out of- tlat'" and
she pulled him by his big sleeve, he coming rather unwillingly,

1


84         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'SS DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITh'S DAUGHTER.

not to say proudly, and shut the door,;and seated him before the
fire in a little willow rocking-chair. (It was to be Pigeon's chair
as soon as he grew to it, purchased by the young couple with the
rest qf their plenishing. George would buy -it, and insisted that
it looked suggestive and comfortable,.even if they never got any
use for it.)  The new incumbent seemed to find it a pleasantten-
ure, to judge from his relaxing muscles, which thawed in the.
genial atmosphere into a broad grin. He stretched out his feet'to
the blaze, and wiped his nose by drawing his sleeve across it, and
looked hungry eyes at a plate of soda biscuits which were piled
white and tempting upon the table for supper. Little Ruth inter-
pretingithe glance, gave him one directly, and added a slice of ham
as a gentle relish, and stood before him with the blandest of faces,
while he devouredit with such fierce eagerness as proved that; ham
sandwiches and -he were not upon such terms of acquaintanceas
to have begotten contempt by familiarity. She handed another
and another as -fast as he bestowed them. He had his fingers on
the fifth, but drew back his hand.
"Oh, the saints forgive ye, Dennis Eagan," muttered he, "for
the mean little-divil that ye care, busy cramming :yoursel' like a
turkey for Christmas,.and Sonsie starvin' wid the hunger; but .
couldn''t:help it-ma'am indeed."
"And who is Sonsie ?" said Ruth pleasantly: "come tell me
about her."
" She's me sister, is Sonsie. Ye never seen ,such :a sister:as
she is, rna'am."
With this introduction Ruth got from him a little story, told in
the quaiit andoften poetical language which these Emeralds use
as if they had been playfellows of Ossian. Misfortune, suffering
and want, mingled with crime perhaps-,nothing new 'or strange
to the dwellers in cities, but with which Roaring River was only
beginning to' make unwilling acquaintance. Such a quiet, old-
fashioned town as it was beforefactory times, and in the center
of so rich a farming country; 'though 'the -inhabitants heard of
want and misery by the hearing of the ear,-actual, gaunt, hideous
starvation had hid her grim visage' from their gaze. Let us be

thankful that there are still a few such blessed places left in our
charming State, though the people run to and fro, and knowledge
is increased. Now a new railroad had been projected through
the village,:the Gonecussets being 'the head and front of the en-
terprise, and theyhad kept Mr. John Bisbee at the capitol lobby-
ing to push it through all the last sitting. of the Legislature, and
folks said : they had spent a pile of money in- the form of a cor-
ruption fund. It was surveyed to cross the quiet old grassy
square, the pride of the village, and shooting past the corner of
the old' stonechurch,:among the grave stones, it .ran into the fine
farms, and. cut and slashed' and kicked up the ancient landmarks
in a way which I am afraid induced some profanity among, the
:sufferers. But then, it would be a great advantage;to the, Gone-
cussets, making easy transit for their scythes and sattinets, and
the aggrieved outsiders had to swallow down their wrath and
pocket their damages as best they might. Now did the Irish
pour in and plant themselves, and stick up their shanties, and rear
their illegant pigs and children after'-their peculiarly tidy fashion.
This boy, Dennis' Eagan,:belonged to the last horde of voters;
his father had work on the road, he had got hurt, they lived under
the hill close by Gully Brook. There were five children, and
the new babby, but the babby wan't their's ; the mother brought
it home in a blanket. This washthe synopsis of the tale Ruth
heard.
"And me, mother says' we won't have a daddy long," he
added. "He's stopping to whoam now very bad in his head;
she's went for the auld doether till him, but he didn't come yet,
and she s fretting the heart, out for it. If ye would but. comfort
me mother, ma'am, a bit,' he finished, looking into Ruth's bright
face with all the childish confidence.its truth commanded.
She smiled. " Do you think I could comfort your pooranother,
my lboy ?"
"Indade but it's just you that can do that same; haven't you
comforted meself through and through, intirely ?"
There was such:an admixture of old cunning and young £ith
in the odd nut-cracker of a face she looked .down at,}that -uh


36         WIDOW GOLDSnITu'S 'DAUGnTEn.

WIDOW GOLDsMITH'S DAUGHTER.      37

hesitated. " Maybe all a lie," she thought ; "no, it's truth," she
concluded; "I'm sure of"it."  The mental process by which she
arrived at this  certainty does not 'appear; but she moved away
and-filled the pitcher with milk, and she 'talked to herself; a habit
she had. When questioned about 'it she gave as a reason that
she liked conversing'with sensible woman.
"HoI lucky," she remarked, dipping a spoon into the yellow
cream, "thAt I persuaded George to irivest in that blessed= 'little
sea-cow;' she's very tiearly asgood a milker as Wiesdorenchens.
PHer milk just ran between ;her young' mistress' fingers like the
waters of a fountain, till it filled all the dishes, and churns, and
things-:oh, but those Germans are great ir  fairy tales ! fPigeon
shall have every one of them,' Grim Books, lLittle Barefoot, and
'all. "He may have to do without a good many things, -but3 books
he shall 'have, 'as sure as my name is Ruth-"Blossom, but it
isn't Blossom now, you know. Do look how'my little friend' is
stretching his'legs ; I believe in my'"heart he is nodding; I dare
say'the fire feels 'good to him. 'Go and see them? of course I
shall, just as soon.as Pigeon is in his nest; he don't look very
sleepy. Goodness gracious.! how he is banging that old doll!
Merciless little wretch! how does he know but dolly has feelings ?
What a horrid tale ! nothing for-breakfast, nothing for dinner, and
les' than nithixig foidsppe . How people can manage to bring
up large families on such an unlimited supply of nothing at all is
one of the mysteries: It beats the Eleusian all hollow; and-the
habby don't belong to them ! Who do you, suppose does own it,
then ?s That don't look right--a screw loose there, I'm afraid, as
George says. However it won't doto let ihem starve; how I
ish I was rich; 'oh no, I don't think I do either; George would
be troubled to hear me litter that folly: He would coi his heart
t4 make me happy, the dear old giant! so my Tried 'Mrs. Blair,
don't be a silly goose, wishing for what you can't have-;" she
shook her head at her friend:in merry 'ren onstrance.
" Here now, Dennis my boy, run along home as fast as those
duck legs will carry you; and; mind you don't spill the milk. But
stop! that won't do, either. You shan't"stir till you have those

horrible, dirty, purple feet covered up. I should suppose you
would wash them once in a while ; but poor fellow, I' dare say
you think a great deal more about something to put into your
crop than 'about soap and water. -Cleanliness is next. to godliness,
but an empty stomach does not beget a love for either. 'I haven't
a thing you can wear unless it is that pair of Chandy Goldsmith's
old shoes which Chris wore over here that day when she had 'lost
her 'gums,' as the Philadelphia ladies call their rubbers. Maybe
with a pair of George's woolen socks they might do-a mile too
large, of course, but anything is better 'than raked goose-flesh
like that. Can you keep them on.?" she was bending over Den-
nis, with her plump hands resting on her knees, and watching
with a busy face the process of induction.
"Indade then, but I .can, ma'ain  my feet can laugh at the
snow in there, and me gatherin' the sticks. Mother will be very
phased ; she fretted sorely to see me futs bleeding and she niver
a shoe to give me. Good evening to ye, ma'am, and ye's purty
babby ; and may he niver be wanting the good :dinner and
supper."
"Thank you, master Eagan, and tell your mother that I'll be
down to see her as soon as I can leave home." i.
She held open the door, and 'the little fellow walked. carefully
away, .clasping the pitcher with both hands, and lifting his feet
like a ducI to keep his boots on. Everything is valuable by
comparison' in this world,; and the sore-footed boy was as ,much
delighted with his new high-lows as any pretty 'girl with her tiny
satin slippers for her first bull.
After he was gone, Ruth. Blairsat down again and began trot-
ting and singing as industriously as though she had not just been
through it all, and lost her trouble, from "The cricket sings under
the hearth," to the' "trot, trot-hum, hum," and all the while her
thoughts were- busy over the probable' condition of the poor
wretches thus thrust upold her notice.
"Always poor Irish," said she; "how I should like to see a
rich Irishman, just for a novelty-; they are as rare as black swans.
The father drinks, of course, and beats them all around every


88      .    WIDQw ,OLDstITn'S.DAVGnfxu.
day to keep himself in training. Whisky is mother's milk to
them. and heaven helpthe poor, helpless children," she concluded,
with a soft sigh, as she laid Pigeon in his little crib, snug and
comfortable ; contrary to all hat blessed youngster's intentions,.he
had gone to sleep, and his lips were so very;bewitching in their
dewy rosiness that the young mother could not help tasting them
once more before she really left him to his slumbers. He was
good and fast for two hours or more, and so she looked into he
pantry for any odd bits she could spare. It was better filled than
Mother.Hubbard's, but still not sumptuous. A piece of beef-steak
left from dinner, a few stewed potatoes, and a nice pot cheese.
She added some .sices of bread, and laid the whole deftly into
a basket, holding converse ,with herself as she covered them in.
"Fleuwis high, and ours .is almost out. 'I wish the prophet
would"come along, but, then I don't suppose he would do anything
for me if he did ; he would save all the nice things for the widows.
I've an ideabread isnot a drug in that market by the way that
Dennis stuffed down my. biscuits. What filthy hands he had, to
be sure ! I've half a mind to take along a pail of my:new soft
soap; that will.;eat off the dirt, if they will give .it a chance.
Good bye, little blessing ! now don't go, and wake up and cry,
whatever -you do. I suppose your guardian angel will watch
over youin:my absence ; if he won't, I don't see the use of hav-
ing one."
She hurried onher hood and cloak, and sallied out,  She had
not far to walk, down a lane, and with her active, quick, steps she
soon reached the place. It had been the old red.school-house for
the last generation of Merry =Bank youngsters, but was abandoned
as too rickety and tunible-down. The boys, that type of human.-
ity whose hand is against every man, had amused their leisure by
throwing stones at the windows, and all the glass had long ago
been, shivered and trodden under foot, and boards, paper, and rags
supplied its place. A faint smoke crept out of the ragged chim-
ney, arnd a dull odor of greasy cookery lay on the damp -air.
"They've got a fire, at all events," said Ruth, shifting her

WIDOW GOLD5sTH's DAUGHTEU.3

basket, which was getting heavy ; "it's something to know they
are not freezing as well as starving; one luxury at a time."
She was startled into a sudden stop by a scream of painrfrom
a childish voice which :smote her ears like a blow. The tender
mother-heart stirred within her, and she. listened breathless; shud-.
dering and pulling her mantle : lightly around her, she fairly ran
till she reached the old house, and pushing. open the door, she
darted in. A.puff of filthy air rushed out at her, and made her
gasp, but she saw such a sight of misery as made her count it for
nothing. A woman sat by the stoveholding a child fifteen months
or so old; she had on an old piece of a shawl pinned beneat her
chin, and was evidently just come in. She was tryinii with a
bit of rag to stop the .blood :from a wicked gash in the child's
forehead, and a wide cut on its cheek.
"What is the matter here !" screamed Ruth. "What ails that
poor child ?"
The woman turned her head at the voice, and showed a face
pale, dirty, care-worn, woe-begone, with all the soul tarredd and
pinched out of it-a pitiful face to see.
"She's fell ontil the stove,, ma'am," she said, in a half-dead way.
"While I was for the doctor to ,me husband, it happened somehow;
she's cut all the headband face of her, }and harted hersef dread-
ful; I don't know what I'm to do any more, I'm.sure,",and.she
glanced around the hole of a place in a kind of dazed, sorrowful
consternation. Quite un-Irish like, she, :made no, outcry, uttered
no shrieks, but sat dull-still, sapping', the dripping wounds. All
the life deemed gone from herhollow face and sunken eyes-the
fountain of tears dried up.
Ruth glanced hurriedly about her in.;search of after ; she saw
none. In a corner, rolled up in a tattered quilt, Jay.a ma ,ppa-
rently asleep, and breathing stertorioely. She thought he was
drunk, and called:ogt sharply:
"Jump up, man, get some water, quick! Don't you see how
your child is suffering?  Don't you hear ier screams ? How can
you lie.stupid, like that ?"


40           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
"He don't hear you, ma'am, De nie don't," said the wife, sadly;
"he's hurt hisself out on the cutting, worse luck; a blast hit him;
he hadn't the sense into him when they got 'im home; he's been
breathing that same way all the while. Oh! laut the troubles is
sore and heavy for us," she moaned to herself as she drew her
bloody hand across her tearless eyes. "Holy Mary pity us!
Ruth placed her basket hastily on the floor, no table being vis-
ible; and if truth must be told of the dear little woman, she felt
not a little ashamed of the scolding tone she had been uing in
this poor place where there was suffering enough without adding
any hard words.
"Like my stupidity," said she, "to forget the tale about the
sick daddy." After a perplexed look at her spotless dress, she
seated herself on a box by the stove, and took the filthy bundle
of rags, which gave out no pleasant odor, from the unresisting
mother, and tenderly bound up the suffering little creature's
wounds with her handkerchief, and smiling into the wondering
eyes lifted to hers, she soon bad a quiet baby lying passive in her
motherly arms, and it was'so natural for her to croon her lullaby
that unconsciously she commenced: "The cricket sings under the
hearth."gsunerth
earth.  Whether it was the power of her sweet eyes, or the
etarmof her pleasant voice, I cannot tell, but in a few moments
the little one was fast asleep.
" There," said Ruth to herself, " who says I'm not an animal
magnetiser. Sleep away, poor mite;I expect that is about the
best dose life offers you out of her stingy cup. What. a hole this
is, to be sure! It beats Clark's 'Menagerie' all hollow,-.'Did
you ever? No I never ! Mercy on us! What a smell'""
The room was not large, and its contents not sufficiently
g              sufficient n u-
merous to be perplexing in the examination. -The principal itenis
were human bodies; probably with souls in theri. Children hud-
died behind the rusty stove, the man n the corner, and the poor
woman. A ham bone was boiling in an iron pot, and a few bea
bobb',db-ans
werebabbno  up and down i. the greasy' liAuor 'A wooden
cradle, an old cupboard holding the family' crockery, viz.,° two
cracked tia-cups' and a tin basin. Dirt and discomfort every-

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      41

where, and pinching want showed obtrusively-but no babby.
'Now that the shrieks were hushed, she heard" a feeble wail pro-
ceeding from the cradle, which might seem to indicate that there
was the'commencement of an:immortality in its-immediate vicinity.
" Me sister's babbyma'am," said Mrs. Eagan, following the- di-
rection 'of 'Ruth'seyes-(shesat listlessly huggingher arms; since
their burden had' been removed.)  "She's gone away and leaved
it behind her, r'ore's the pity.~ Oh the dear saints pray for us,
but it's hard that the cruel world is for the likes of us, anyhow.",
"Gone!" said Ruth, sharply; "where,--pray.?" her intolerant
mood returning with this announcement of unmotherly desertion.
" To heaven, I hope, ma'am; she's dead this day week."
She' rose, stepped to the cradle, and drew down the dirty blan-
ket. There lay, sure enough, a tiny slip of a baby.- Ruth placed
her sleeping charge- upon the straw in the corner, close to the
wounded man, and came and bent over the little -creature, all the
mother welling up in her heart as she did so.
'"Poor helpless thing," said she, her eyes dropping teats; "and
its mother is dead."
" Yes ma'am, she's gone-; and it's I've got the babby to rear,
though it's the Holy Mary only knows how I'm to do it. And
just look, ma'am, naked as it came into the world! dear little in-
nocent creature."
"No clothes !" exclaimed Ruth, aghast. The little old-looking
wrinkled thing lay writhing and twisting and purple in the frag-
ment of a -plaid shawl.
"Indade, never a rag.. It came too soon, and sorra a bit could
it have got either by stopping longer. Me sister dropped off just
as soon as it was born; she niver onct spoke nor looked at her
babby, but just gasped and was gone. It's a good five mile away
from here, over i Dead- Hollow ; and after Father Brady, came,
and me poor misfortunate sister was covered up 'under ground,
and niver a mass can I have for her at all at all, I just wrapped
the innocent in the shawl, and I brought it the weary way in my
arms, and plase God I'll rear it somehow wid 'me own children--
I've plenty of them, you see, nodding at the huddle of legs and

of


42         WIDOW -OLDSMITH'S D4UGaTEn.

arms, behind the stove, and there's Dennis and Sonsie beside ;
we've but a poor place, we only corned two weeks agone, now me
husband he's took bad; I've tried to get the life into him, but
sorra a bit could I, and I j-ust shut the door-on the childer and
runned for}the doctor, and when I got back little.Mally lay prone
on the ground, all cut and bleeding, and a great pang in the place
that just tuk the heart 'out o' me."
"Have you tried to get any work ?" askea Ruth, covering in
the baby with tender hands.
"IUve washed twict for Mrs. Williams, but she didn't give me
Money, only some cold pieces, and some old duds she said would
do for the childer, but they was so worn full of holes they would
not stead me at all. The boy and girl they get sticks out of
Bradshaw's woods beyant--they are out there now. I have not
begged yet, savin' the sup of milk for the babby, but it's beggin'
or starvin' we'll be,"I'm thinking' now, and me poor boy a layin'
there."
Mrs. Blair bethought her of her basket, and brought forth the
Mother Hubbard store. The huddle behind the stove broke up
on the 'instant ; they scented the viands afar-off, and little eager
faces gathered around her, eager with starvation.
"Oh dear !" thought Ruth,'her nose going up in spite of her,
she was such a dainty, clean little woman, "if you could only
wash 'your bands it does seem as if you might enjoy your food
better,ibut it can't be. helped this time, only if I do it again I'll
have you scrubbed slightly, as sure as my name is Ruth Bilos-
som.'
The, poor mother took her slice of bread and went over to
where her husband was lying.
Dennis, darlin', here's bread, eat a. bit, it'll put the life intil
ye.'?  He gave ino heed to her voice or her caressing hand, and
after a weary waiting she turned slowly away and laid the morsel
before her famished young ones.
"'He'll -niver speak to me more," said she pitifully; "niver,
niver. It's goin' that he is"

WIDOW GOLDsmTH'S. i)A   ra,         43

* The door burst open, and our little friend Dennis staggered in,
bending under his load of sticks, which he dropped with a weary
groan on to the f oor. He was followed by a young girl, ragged
and dirty.; -she was thin and pale, but erect as a }reed, and. with a
certain sense of power in her motions. She had a shock of pur-
ple-black hair, and great hollow eyes ; she was shivering and
blue with cold, but an air of courageous endurance sat on- her
face, and she spoke in an honest, cheery voice.
" Look, mother ! look, children! what i've brought to you. A.
girl of me own age guy it me ; she's as pretty as beads, and the
sweet pity and dear kindness :in her brown eyes were better
than it. She's not happy either, I'm sure, poor., dear; i.should
like to beat somebody for it. Come, mother, a whole loaf of
white bread and seed-cakes, she called them  'cookies' And
here's Dennis, he's worked like a brave old hero, as he is--we'ye
to eat, and we've the wood for the Oire."  Here she stopped short,
perceiving Ruth, and smiled, nothing abashed.
"Dennis' friend, I know and Pigeon's mama," said she, curte-
sying. "I am Sonsie, 'at your service, and blessings on ye for
the purty little lady that ye be. Dennis is raving ever since
about ye, ma'am; he'll stand on his head if ye but bid him do it.
And how is father ? Is the doctor corned yet ?"
"He's niver been at all. It's two good hours sen I was up at
his place. I could not .get to speech of himself, but I left the
word as that me Dennis was hurted, and begged he'd come im-
mediate."
Just then the man in the straw groaned heavily, and struggled
for breath, tossed up his arms, and opened wide :his staring blood-
shot eyes. They moved quickly toward him, but the great-blue
orbs which want had set in such deep caverns were already fixed
and glassy in the last agony ; his purple, swollen lips drew back
from his set teeth, his features contracted in a fearful spasm--and
he was dead.
The hapless widow stood gazing .at him=in a:half daft, uncon-
scious way, out of her tearless, sunken eyes,\till the truthrsank
into her heart ; 'then she dropped beside the body, with her head

I

'


44         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGH'I'ER.

on her knees, and her hands clasped around them, and rocked
herself to and fro.
" Oh, but it's lonely I'll be now," she moaned in a smothered
voice, "lonely all the life long. Ye were the good husband to
me,- Dennis, darlint, and ye loved me dear, in all the want.and
the sorrow. Oh, why did ye lave the auld cabin under the hill,
for to die. away among the strangers?  Better to starve there
amongst the kindred and get a burying' in the auld church-yard
with the white cross at ye'r head and the daisies springing above
ye, and the golden finches building their nests around, than to
break your kind heart in this miserable country, where's no pity
at all for the poor ! Oh, Mary ! Mother of Jesus ! take us all,
and let us rest together. It's weary that I am, with the strug-
glin' and the starvin', and better all die now ; there's no comfort
for the likes of us but the cold comfort that's under the sod."
"Mother, mother !" said Sonsie, leaning over the sobbing crea-
ture with a protecting gesture which seemed habitual to her, and
forcing down her own grief. "Don't take on; you've the chil-
dren to mind; they're frighted of you."
"Poor soul!' said Ruth, with heavenly pity in her eyes;
"you've a friend who always feels for you-the dear Christ.
Don't forget in your sorrow that you've a Saviour to go to."
" Thrue, thrue, there's a God above us, but he don't. seem to
mind us in the heart-breakin' and suffering . Holy Mary, pray
for us!"
"Let us pray for ourselves," said Ruth, in a soft whisper, lay-
ing her hand gently upon the clenched ones at her side. "Let
us ask the good Jesus; 'He will surely hear us, and pity us; He
knows our griefs, for-He carried our sorrows."
The womin started at the sympathetic touch, and threw a be-
wildered glanceup at the gentle eyes seeking hers ; and she kept
almost breathless silence while Ruth, kneeling, prayed in simple
words for just what the crushed- soul needed. The bleeding.
heart,;gall blurred- and darkened, felt the healing balm of true
prayer,'and when Ruth rose she put out both of her hands, to
touch her garments.

WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      '     4:
"It's, a gleam of God's blessed sunshine that ye.are !" said she
reverently. " Ye've put the warm life into me dead heart. Holy
Mary bless ye for it."
" Take courage, and don't let us'talk any more about giving
up with so good and great a friend to go to, and who loves us,
too. I hate to leave you in your grief, but I must run home
to my. baby. I'll'try to send some of our good neighbors to see
you, and I feel quite sure my husband will look in to-night, so that
you! shall not be alone with your dead."
As she turned to the door, she felt her hand clasped, and'look-
ing down she found the girl Sonsie on her knees at her side; she
was pressing the plump fingers she held to her lips, and Ruth
was startled by the look of unutterable devotion, almost adora-
tion, which shone from her great hollow eyes. , She smiled en-
couragingly upon her, though her heart. was aching with sympa-
thetic sorrow.
"You have your hands full now, Sonsie," whispered she.
"Comfort the poor mother ; 'tis a breaking heart. You must
stand in front; you are young and strong and full of hope. You
must tidy up the place, too, before anybody comes."
Sonsie nodded and smiled as she. dashed off a-couple of tears.
"I'll do me best," said she ; "I always do."
Ruth met the doctor coming leisurely along. He had dined,
 and read the Times and the World, and was sauntering at art-
easy pace, as he turned Marble's editorial over in his mind, and
chewed the end of his tooth-pick along with his cud of reflections.
This call of charity needed no hurry.- Ruth stopped him, and
related the catastrophe, and then walked swiftly home to her
sleeping Pigeon, who had not stirred in his nest. The doctor
took a look at the corpse, lifted one leg, passed his fingers across
the back, peered under the eyelids, and remarked calmly to hiim-
self:
"Spine fractured; might have lived on awhile, perhaps, with
prime nursing, but hadn't the ghost of a chance ever to get on
his legs again-better dead than alive."  And he turned about


46R           IDOW 'OrISanaT's DAUGHTER.
and brushing offt some specks of dirt from his- immaculate coat-
sleeve, he said:
"I'll look up the town authorities and have the poor devil
buried, and the rest taken out to the farm,"-and then he drew on
his gloves and proceeded on his round with unabated cheerfulness.
He did not observe the indignant scorn in Sonsie's pale face, or
her clenched hands; he wouldn't have minded.such small deer if
he had.
The town buried the remains the next day, but 'it was with a
sore heart that the poor widow saw them laid in unconsecrated
ground, and without a Priest's blessing, and she begged hard to
wait for his coming. The town-officers made pishawing remarks
among themselves at the idiocy of such a request, and hustled
them into the rough box prepared for the parish dead. "They
rattled the 'bones over the stones," they too were of the opinion
that he was better dead than alive. The widow did what she
could; she nailed together with her own hands a rude cross, which
she planted at the grave-head with many prayers and tears.
Ruth Blair was busy all day about the funeral; but before she
slept that night she gathered together all she could spare of Pig-
'eon's clothes and her baby-linen and carried them to Mrs. Eagan,
whose face lighted at the sight of her. She found her sitting by
the little hurt child, watching its heavy slumber, and Sonsie hush-
ing the baby with motherly tenderness. They 'both had turned
their backs upon the corner where the ghastly corpse had so
lately lain, and the children were all asleep under the quilt which
had covered it. The place was swept and scrubbed, and Sonsie's
face was polished"to the hue'of clear marble, and her eyes glowed
more lustrous than ever. The wounds on the child's forehead
were still'bound about with Ruth's handkerchief, which adhered
tightly, but her face aid hands were washed. The wan - little
features looked so pinched, and blue that Ruth's sympathetic heart
ached while she looked. She slept like a log, and breathed hard
with her lips apart, and her half-open eyes rolled painfully upward-.
"rHoW h s she been, Mrs. Eagan?  Did she take any of her
gruel ?" . /

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGIrFElI.       47

. "A little, ma'am; she was tossin' and turning' all the mornin',
but for a good bit since she's been sleepin' as you see. She
makes a moan onct in a while, but she don't open her eyes no
more, nor mind me spakin' to her."
The children about the stove, awakened either by Ruth's cheery
voice, or the odor of the warm bread and milk she had brought,
all crawled out from their covering and gathered around the
smoking basin. The contents dealt out into the cracked bowl
and tin cup, were immediately disti-ibuted; theyeagerly supped
it up and crept back to bed. Then after some kind talk with the
two watchers, which did them good like a cordial, and a promise
to come again in the morning, she ran all the way to her own
cheerful home, and her dear Pigeon waiting in his father's arms.
She found thetwo gazing into the maple-wood fire, on the clean
hearth-stone, as if not only "the bonny bairn was biggin castles
in the coals," but the merry giant, his papa, was helping him.
She burst in upon them all aglow, like 'a gay whirlwind, and rap-
turously hugged and kissed them both, with tears in her eyes;
and then bustled about, mixing the buckwheat cakes, grinding 'the
coffee for the early breakfast, finishing up odds and ends of work
before she sat down to the cooing lullaby Pigeon loved-.
"The cricket sings under the hearth,
The bird is asleep on the tree."
And before many minutes the dear little fellow'was fast also,
and the young couple composed themselves for what Ruthie'was
accustomed to call "the pinch of comfort," one of the precious
home evenings when the world is shut 'out and the beloved is
shut in. Every true wife can conjure up the picture fromIher
own private gallery. The beloved has supped daintily, probably
upon those wonderful "puff-overs,' which no one can fabricate' so
well as you, embellished with the strawberries which you put up
that broiling day last summer, when you expected your remains
to be left sublimed on the hearth-stone, like the white earth in
the bottom of a crucible, and you consoled yourself during the
process 'by the reflection that "dearest Philip dotes upon straw-

I'

S
r
t
.
!k"
!;
I'
c
i
Y     e
{
t'
't
f


,8 -       WIDOW G7OLPS iITH'd DAUGHTER.

berries."  While you were in the midst of the pickle, all your
energies concentrated upon the preserving kettle, dearest Philip
marched manily in, with his spotless wristbands in full display,
his soft hat in one hand and his white mouchoir in the other,
ejaculating:
"Blazes, Martha! what a small inferno you've got here! I
don't see how the deuce you stand it !" and then glancing at
your crimson finger-tips and berry-stained wrapper, he coolly in-
quired "how much wages you wrought for, and whether you stop
long in places where they kisses the cook ?" and . then marched
chuckling off, leaving your parted-back locks in a semi-perturbed
condition, to cool himself with a cigar on the shady, wind-visited
piazza.
That was last summer--now the curtains are drawn, the tired
feet of the beloved repose in the anple slippers you daintily em-
.broidered for his birth-day, and were at such a world of trouble
to keep secret. His handsome person is enwrapped in the elab-
orate dressing-gown which you presented last Christmas, andfor
which he paid the New Year's bill with a sly chuckle. His curly
.head lies back on the stuffed arm-chair, which you have wheeled
up before the fire in the precise spot he loves best. The load of
law, or leather, or coal, or cotton, is lifted from'his weary brain.
The care-marked lines are smoothing out of his face, which grows
expansive and genial in the home glow. And you fold your
hands and quietly enjoy looking at him, your own person being
neatly arrayed in drab merino, or elegantly in heavy silk, as you
can afford, or your circumstances demand, and you make ,the
most of the love-light shining from his handsome eyes, while you
talk or. keep silence, as your mood rules. You can be happy in
these hours without any effort. Ah! these are the joys with
which the stranger intermeddleth not..

CHAPTER FOURTH.
THE B.LAIRS AT BREAKFAST.
Mns. BLAIR always rose betimes. Her husband was obliged
to go early to-his work ; at six o'clock th'e great bell at the foun-
dry clanged out, and woe to the loiterer who was unluckily behind
time. Every half hour was counted, and all absences deducted
from the week's wages. Mrs. Ruthie was therefore up and bust-
ling about almost as soon as the day dawned. She swept the
cheerful room, and set the coffee on the fire, and warmed the
potatoes, sliced like wafers into, the creamy dressing, and set the
table, before she called out at the fpot of the stairs, in the cheeri.
est of 'all blithe voices:
Come, lazy husband, the sun will, be up before you, unless
you look sharp, and there will be odd minutes knocked off your
wages, and my new bonnet not bought yet. Do you hear, sir?
And mind you tread, softly, and don't stumble over any of the
chairs and things, or waken Pigeon with your squeaking boots.
I've loads and loads to do this morning."
",Yes, yes, my duck, I'll be at your frugal board directly; give
a fellow time to brush his teeth, can't you ? And I say, Ruthie,
what have you done with my plaid breeches ? togas are not the
wear nQw, you know, and I'm blest if I can find' anything to put
myself into."
"Look on the rocking-chair, stupid; didn't I mend the great
hole in the knees last night, after you were lapped in slumber ?"
"Ah, you sewed tares while -men slept; then you must be
te .

4'


60           WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S DAUG TER.
"You borrowed that, George, you lpw'y did ; and it isn't
half so good as you could say of yourself.. You don't need to
use other people's wits when you've such bright ones, of. your
own, I'm sure. Please hurry down, there's a dear fellow. .I do
feel so remarkably busy."
" Don't be in a pucker, Ruthie. You are always full of work.
I expect you are about the busiest little wife in all Millville, ard
I kn4 you are ,the very best one-yes, dear,' Roaring River-
but I hear so many changes rung on Millville at the foundry:
" Oh, were I monarch of the globe,
With thee to reign;
The brigtest jewel in my crown
Wad be my Queen."
He was just descending the stairs as he hummed in a rich bar-.
itone this exquisite little gem  of Mendellsohn's, and he showed,
his face below just as he finished off the "-Queen," with an arioso,
G, two octaves below. It was a good face, a very good face-
large handsome eyes, an honest, good-humored mouth, firm, deci-'
ded, perhaps obstinate, a wealth of hair curling crisp all over his
massive head; 'broad-shouldered and muscular in figure, with
chest and arm like an athlete in full 'training-no superfluous
flesh about him.- He had withal a sweet,, roguish look when he
smiled,. which he did pretty often, and his teeth were large and
.white and clean. -Somewhat set was the stout feiow in his own
way, which he took care to feel sure was a good way, and impa-
tient of all, meanness'and cunning. He stood firmly planted on
the ground of his own opinion, even if all the world turned away
and left him alone. He had a sweet loving. heart, as clean and
pure as a vestal virgin's, and his life was above all comment.
Great cause had little Ruthie to be proud of George.Blair, the
young journeyman blacksmith, foreman of the Gonecusset Scythe
Works.                          .-
This couple,- seated at their round table, was a sight pleasant
to see; such faces are not found under every roof-tree. Ruth
poured the 'clear coffee and buttered the cakes, and they ate

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.-

51

awhile in silence; and the grosbeak stood still on his top perch
with a.red pepper in his stout bill looking down at them. Chris-
tabel's cat, who had come over for a little sit-down before the
bright fire, v ashed his face all over, and paused with his left paw
raised and the tip of his red tongue out, to look at him through
half-shut eyes.
At length George began to cast inquiring glances at the little
wife. Her eyes were fixed on the coffee-pot, as if she were
studying the mystery of the steam which curled softly upwards
from its bright spout, laden with delicate aroma; and she was
balancing her tea-spoon on her plump fore-finger.
" Why, Ruth ! what has come -to you?  Do you realize .that
you have not. spoken a word to me since I got down stairs?  I
hurried down, upon my. word I did."
" Have I been silent ?" she replied, laying down her plaything,
and smiling into his eyes. "I thought I was sociable ; the truth
is, I am thinking a good deal about that -Irish family, and I was
casting about in my mind as to who would be most likely to con-
tribute .of their substance. There must be-something done im-
mediately, or they will proceed to use their inalienable right to
starve to death. The Poor Master says he can't do anything'for
them unless they will g'o to, the farm, and he 'dunno as She orto
let 'em in there, no how.' But the Eagans can't endure the
thought of that life; Sonsie says she will work her fingers off-
first, and the mother, quiet and wretchel as she is, will 'not give
up that slip of a baby, and I must say, George, I honor her for
that, don't you?  Of course I know' you do, and I shall push
about and try to help her carry out her resolve.' I haven't much
time or money to bestow myself; but there are plenty of rich
people in Roaring River, to say nothing of smart Millville, and
it will go hard but I'll raise a friend among them. If only Mr.
Craigenfells was at home, I might begin and end with him, and
obtain, all I need. I wish he would come back to his own place,
instead'of bui'ying himself in those silver mines; we could better
afford to lose the whole of 'the Gonecussets, mueh as they glorify
themselves, than one such thorough gentleman as Uncle Alec?'


WIDOW GOLD'SMITHUS DAUGH T1R.      53

"'Don't speak evil, of the powers that be, duck ; remember
where your bread and butter comes from."
There was a touch of pride in the head-toss with which Ruth
replied to this reproof.
" Goon, duck," said George, laughing.
"I shall visit Mrs. Goldsmith first ; she always subscribes to
all the missionary societies, .and gets up the boxes of clothing for
the Indians and negroes, and I am sure these poor souls.are
heathenish enough for all practical purposes."
"You may spare your breath, duck; I can ensure you before-
hand a virtuous refusal. Her piety is of the sour variety,
where all the juice is vinegar ; her contributions are for the
Herald.
"I shall ask her all the same, George; I have made her say
'yes' often to my requests for Chris, and' I'll try her on charity
now. There's the Bradshaws, and the Walsinghams, and. the
Claytons, they will all be sure to give. But do you know,
George, I believe I will begin with Mrs. Deacon Williams, and
then go through the Gonecussets, before I solicit elsewhere; they
are making handfulls of money out of these poor people."
" Your husband, the burly blacksmith among the number," said
George, with a gay laugh.
Ruth glanced quickly at him, and her face, flushed-was it
shame or pride ?
"They have brought these wretched outcasts among us; and
they ought tosupport them, especially this family, since the father
met his death in their service ; of course it is their plain duty to
pension the widow."
" Dear innocent little Ruthie ; I must have you come up to the
office next pay-day, and allow you to see how they do'business.
I Why, my darling, don't you know that Deacon Williams, pious
as he is, would sell his father any time for a dollar, and throw in
his mother, also, if necessary to clench his bargain ?"
" Oh for shame, George! What a horrid Fejee Islander illus-
tration. You shouldn't .drag in his piety that way, as if it was
in fault."

 "T drag it in just as he does, where he thinks: it will tell-by
the head and shoulders. But-inever mind me, Ruthie; you are
right I know; I hate to have my wife go begging."
"There, sir ! who is proud now ?"
" Well, well, try your luck and you'll soon come to be'of my
mind ; only you mustn't cry when they are hard on. you, and an-
swer you roughly ; you are such a tender heart. I am afraid they
will grieve you sorely before you finish. And don't bother your-
self too much about these Emeralds.; they don't mind staring
any more than eels do skinning ; they are raised on it in the
mother country."
"Now George, I do really think you are very cruel."
She fixed her eyes on her giant reproachfully. "If you had
seen the woeful sights I. saw down there, you could not talk so
hard."
"Ah, woe is me, to see what I see," replied George, with fan-
tastic gesture. "Little Ruthie's breakfast getting cold while she
scolds her innocent fellow of a husband."
"But," persisted Ruth, "suppose that little naked, crying,
hungry thing was our baby ?"
L"I can't suppose anything of that sort, because our babies are
sure to be pretty and well cared for with such a dear little mother.
I won't teaze you, duck; you looked so tragie I couldn't help it.
But seriously, my wife, the fact is you must not expect any return
for all your efforts, except .abuse. You may do your best and
they will turn again and rend you, the first opportunity. When
you have worn yourself out and exhausted the benevolence of
your friends, they will curse you for not doing anything for
them. ' A  thankless lot; they talk smoother than oil, but they
have all kissed the blarney stone, and are as full of lies and -de-
ceit as an egg is of meat. The Irish warm-heartedness and gen-
erous impulse is all stuff-a pretty myth. The real paddy-whack
and the interesting fellow who is 'sitting on the stile, Mary,' are
two extremely dissimilar individuals. Pretty animals they are
to make independent voters of! I'd as lief have a heathen with-

WIDOW GOLDSCITH'S DAUGHTER.


WIDOW GOLDSMrrH'S DAUGHTER.

out any: bridge in his nose to legislate for me, as a heathen ,ridden
by a priest. I don't see any great-,choice, myself"
"Oh you are prejudiced because Michael O'Donohue sold that
pretty sled you made him; and Mary Thorn turned out so bad..
'Thankless, cheating wretches they were, I'll acknowledge; but
they are not a type of my Eagans. I'd engage for that Sonsie
anywhere; she's got a fine, true, honest face, worth brightening
by kindness; I'll try if I can't bring a little shine into it."
Well, dear  little duck, go on' and prosper. It is just as I
tell you,'but children are children ; they never asked to be born,
and must not be left to suffer, only if any of those Gonecussets
dare to make ~you cry I'll throw'up my situation as head black-
smith, so as to -be onterms of equality to fight them to-morrow
morning before breakfast. 'Here are three, four, six kisses to
keep your precious cheek round and rosy. What you don't get
. we will try-to make up, and I will speak to the men at the foun-
dry ; we'll manage to drive the wolf from the door somehow.'
Good-bye, dearest; whatever other folks may be, you are a jewel
of the fist water, and when myrotary works you shall have a
charity fund of your own."
"Oh, thank-, you, dear, that will be so nice; in the meantime,
please oblige me by dropping in upon Madame Goldsmith and"
adjuring and conjuring her to spare Christabel from the 'sewing
work' and let; her come over and mind Pigeon for me. The
dear girl will rejoice to be emancipated, and will, enjoy a frolic
with my baby when there is no one looking on; she is as shy as
a quail, but she is Oat home with us. You can't imagine how she
clung to mie when I went-there in process of 'boarding round ,-
school-ma'am,.you know. Mrs. Goldsmith said she had made
her soap, ahd' picked her geese, and cleaned house, and should
have all her dirty work done when she'd had the school-ma'am----.-
meaning me-you-see the joke, I trust ?"=
"I'm, not sure that I do, but 'I will call on the old lady and tell
her her name will be - mentioned from the pulpit if she behaves
as she-ought in this affair-;:that will fetch her. One more good-,
bye-hard work-but I must go."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH 'S. DAUGHTER.             55
It should be said in apology for Mr. Blair, that he had been
married scarcely two years, and the first bloom was not yet
brushed from his peach of marriedhappiness. The fretting time
when 'cares and perplexities make. short words and sour faces,
was still far off in the dim distance, in fact did not show a cloud
even, the size of a man's hand on his horizon. His busy, fresh,
happy little Ruth still adorned herself as carefully for his coming
as in the. days of their courtship, a fact, upon which he plumed
himself not a little. ."No yellow curl-papers for me, thank you,"
he said blandly, as he lifted his hat to Adeliza Euphernia Hitch-
cock in passing the dulce domum of that elegant creature, and
saw her sitting at the front window in what;she was accustomed
to call her dish-able, and he added " Precious Ruthie" before he
~began to hum "Oh were I monarch."    They were not at all
fashionable people, and had a right to love each other to their
heart's content. They were all aldne in the world, fatherless and
motherless. When they joyfully agreed to walk through life
together, Ruth was teaching the district school in Roaring River,
and being young, strong, 'healthy and hopeful, they dared to
marry, though George had nothing better to depend upon than
his blacksmith's wages. The little wife was a bright particular
star in the young husband's eyes, and when at his work her
image rose before him, it sent the blood tingling through his veins,
and his labor sped merrily. The vision of his pleasant home
always nerved his;arm and made him stronger and braver to do
battle with the world in general- and the Gonecussets in partic-
ular.. When he washed his ruddy face in the brass hand-basin
at the forge, and stepped out into the dim twilight for his mile
walk, he wassure of a glad welcome from the cheerful woman
looking out for him, and listening for the footfall which she knew
for his among all the passers by. I expect George would have
thought that the time for Satan's thousand years' had about ar-
rived if he had' found his house shut up and the fire-shine dark-
ened, while his wife gossiped ,and visited among her neigh-
bors, or even attended missionary-meetings .or mothers' associa-
tions.  Such a fallen being is mAan! so wedded to creature
comforts.


WIDOW. GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

Many happy evenings had  these Blairs while George read
aloud, the baby sleeping in the state of absolute fastness which is
so charming in a baby, not ronning up with every sound and de-'
manding to, be taken up,'as unprincipled babies who have no
regard for the rights of others are in the nightly habit of doing;
Ruth with contented face sitting close beside her Giant, working
and listening.. Little means had they for luxuries, but they could
always afford a new book, if they made up their minds to pos-
sess it. And George often said afterwards, when he had learned
the bitterest lesson of his life, that the smell of the fresh leaves
of a new book, and the rustle of the cutter among them, always
brought Ruth before him at her prettiest and best, and showed
her in her sweet freshnessand tender truth. They chose to live'
simply, and wear the plainest garments, rather that. give up the
highest form of happiness within their reach. They not only
read together, but talked of what they read, and their every day
conversings were enriched by apt quotations from, and playful
allusions to their favorite authors, which covered the baldness of
the most ordinary topic.
George was a thorough mechanic, and could turn his hand to
anything, and whlat he finished with his flexible fingers was sure
to be something choice of its kind, with his genius-stamp upon
it. Indeed he had sought out and perfected many inventions : a
patent butter-firkin, for instances with a spring cover, and a con-
trivance for tasting, which was bringing a fortune to the live
Yankee who bought it ; also a new clothes-wringer, a self-adjusting
buckle, which needed no sewing; and he was now busied about
a rotary pump which only needed some alteration in the system
of packing, (he had puzzled his brains over it and tossed his hair
every way,1but could not quite hit it off yet,) to make it the com-
pletest kind of a thing.. His thoughts were always working among
wheels and levers and screws, while his hands shaped the scythes,
and controlled the engines and trip-hammers down-at the foundry.
Books were accumulating in their house, the shelves were of black
walnut, very ornamental with a carved owl on each.corner, but
they would hold no more, and George had his eye upon a new.

copy of Dickens in thirty volumes, with the, original Cruikshank
illustrations. They needed a book-case ; Ruth said so, with a
wistful look at a fine one inBascom &amp; Leary's. A Therefore Mr.
Blacksmith made one in the winter evenings, and a gay place it
held in the corner of the living-room. It had fluted curtains of
crimson silk,-within the carved doors, as George said, 'to defend
our treasures from the 'Goths and Vandals." Those ruthless
beings who lay lawless hands on the most precious volumes and
bear them off to tatterdom without compunctious visitings, and
with faces as -serene and unconscious as a well-nursed baby's.
Your books in their clutch are like the moments-they go to
return no more. I was once asked by one of these harpies, in a
voice as smooth and steady as a well executed clarinet obligato,
to lend him my copy of Shakspeare! illustrated! illuminated!
and bound in antique calf. (A ponderous- volume, which I ap-
proach not with unwashen hands, and which I always peruse
from a bookstand, fearing to sully its priceless pages;) and that
too as coolly as if the emblazoned volume had been but a. penny
copy of "Mother Goose ;" and I was forded by politeness to
stand by and see the ruthless monster wet his thumb to turn over
the leaves, and he tumbled and touzled them as though they had
been waste paper. I did not annihilate him with a glance,' because
I had not the power ; I onlysaid, blandly :
"My friend, I esteem you, but if you were my grandmother I
could not do such an irreverent action."
He did not shrink away at my mild rebuke. le actually took
himself off in a huff, and went out and reviled me -for meanness.
Heaven be praised! I lost my friend, but I keep my book.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH 9 S DAUGHTER.


WIDOW GOLDSM[Trr'S DAUGHTER.           a59s.

CHAPTER FIFTH.
OUR CHRIS.
MRs. BLAIR had as she said, "a hundred and fifty things to
do' before she-could go out on her begging expedition. There
were the doughnuts- to fry, or "boil," as the Yankee housewives
say ;.the raised biscuits to get into the oven, the apples and
quinces to stew, and the youngster to dress. She finished him
off, fed him, and then tied him into his high chair and gave him
the chicken feet 'to play with, while she prepared the fowls for
broiling, arl was just wiping her hands on 'the long roller-
towel behind the wash-room door, preparatory to resting a min-
ute, and'fondling her baby, when Christabel Goldsmith came fly-
ing joyously in. She threw off her hood and dropped her cloak
upon- the first chair, and catching up little Pigeon, chicken feet
and all, she hugged and kissed him rapturously.
" My little husband" 'said she, in the clear ringing voicd she
rarely used now; "my precious pet ! you 'are to take care of me
to-day, it seems, and we must keep the house without family jars.
Oh, dear Ruth, this is so nice, I can stay all day. I've iny wrist-
bands-in my pocket, only four to stitch, and I can read 'and talk,
and even be idle if I like ; it is so pleasant to do 'that sometimes.'
Mother was going to say 'no,' she had her teeth all set for it; I
saw the 'no' in her eyes, 'but George stopped it with one of his
grand persuasive looks, and turned it into, a slim 'yes'; and I
hurried up the rest of the' towels and things I had to iron, and
chopped the hash, and did up all the odds and ends mother could
contrive, and she's good at contriving work, is mother-and here'

Three years have gone by, and Christabel is fifteen. Let us
note the changes. The dimpled beauty, of her childhood is all
.gone ; she is tall, and as slender as a reed by the watercourse.
Her large brown eyes are lighted just now with merry light, and
her full lips arched into a sweet smile, but the smiles come too
rarely, and there is often a wistful glance from under her long
lashes, which is the sad fellow to a sigh. She stands erect enough,
and with graceful gestures'tells her story,' but in any other pres-
ence than this friend's whom  she safely trusts, she .is likely to
be awkward and 'angular, and when she ceases to speak or listen
she sinks away into distraint absence which sits oddly -upon so
young a girl; and she is, apt to start abruptly iin painful alarm,
when:suddenly addressed, as though expecting rebuke and harsh-
ness, or maybe a blow.
Ruth looked keenly at her eager face, so eloquent to express
her joy, and she marked the deep purple circles beneath her lus-
trous soft eyes, but she forebore- to ask the cause. Tears and
Christabel had grown familiar acquaintances in the last three
years. Her home-life was as sadly changed from its delightful
fullness of varied occupation, as was she from the gay, happy,
loving, and well-beloved child we knew in her dear'father's time.
The practical Mrs. Goldsmith recognized, we know, but orie phase
of existence,' and that was the work-a-day one, alternated it is'
true by the Sabbath rest, if going to meeting three times, to Sun-
day school twice, and eating cold bits in the pantry, with her
shoes on her feet and her loins girded about, as the Israelites took
their passover, and sitting grim and prim with her big Bible on
her knees and the "Great Tribulation " atop of it, between 'whiles,
could be called rest. The good dame was anxious and dissatisfied
if she was not driving and pushing somebody, and poor-Chris had
to bear the goad of her parent's thrift and business faculty as
best she might. Every moment which she got to. herself she
spent in eagerly poring over- her beloved books, in some out-of-
the-way place, and the very secrecy she was forced to nse made
the study seem almost like a crime. - Her beautiful curls were
always knotted up anyhow,.or hanging untidy and frizzled over


60         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

her shoulders; she no longer gave time or thought to her looks;,
dress and,- personal adornment were not for her, all ornaments'
were prohibited and sniffed at as sinful. -' This perishing body,
soon to -be food for worms," it was part of her mother's religion
to mortify and keep uider in her daughter.  Chris was very like
to her father, and casual observers could not help noting the.un-
canny looks which the widow gave her sometimes, especially.
when she would) sit with hands folded on her lap, and the far-off
wistful glance of her brown eyes, and the sorrowful curve of her
scarlet lips recalled the dead too forcibly. It is not to, be sup-
posed that one incident of the last day of Fred Goldsmith's life
had ever, dropped ~out of the woman's memory, and ,poor Chris
was often made sharply to feel the sting of her troublesome rec-
ollections. Life had got reduced to very narrow limits for the,
lonely child;' freedom from work and time to herself with quiet
for reading was the highest form of happiness she sought. She
never thought of looking in her mirror, adjusting a stray curl, or
glancing over her shoulder and smiling at herself, as happy, care-
less young girls are wont to do, who are on -confidential terms
with their own image. In the morning she was accustomed to
draw her book from under her pillow at day-dawn, and she read
till forcedto- get out of bed by a call from her mother's strident
voice. - She had learned to time the matron's motions, and kept
her ear unconsciously strained to catch the sounds in her room
below, and at the very last moment she sprang up and huddled
on her clothes .as.rapidly as possible, and she gave them no more
thought unless forced to do so by an unlucky tear' or rip, and
then she pinned over the obtrusive aren't, and so.earned for herself,
a torrent of hard words for her "shiftlessness."  She kept a book
on her ironing-board, and read while she drew the hot iron over
the damp clothes, carelessly, indifferently; and got frequent
scoldings for scorched or wrinkled linen, and sometimes I am
sorry to say that she got angry and retorted, saying that "such
tasks were not fit for her father's daughter, and she despised.
them."  Such bitter outbreaks were not frequent, however, and
always earned their reward. the grim widow had put her rebel-

lious child through many courses of bread and water and
solitary stitching with much apparent relish, still she would read,
she kept a volume in her, work-basket and stealthily perused it
between the stitches. During the interminable "Notes and .Coni-
ments,'-Scott, Henry, Barnes, and Bush, which the widow went
droning through at the morning devotions, she coached herself in
her Latin verbs and German declensions; but still was not so
much hardened that the sweet hymns her papa loved did not melt
her to tears.
With the excellent grounding she had received from poor Fred,
she had gone on crowding all sorts of knowledge into her .mind,
without method or order. She gobbled it, but her wonderful
memory, both ready and retentive, never failed her, and she was
able,-to bring .forth things new and old from  her storehouse, at
pleasure.
With girls of her own age she was bashful and silent, in the
rare times she got in contact with them, and could never think
of much to say to them; - when she did essay to talk, they
either gaped in open-mouthed astonishment,, or secretly derided
her for a niddy. She would sit an'd listen in profound :wonder
to hear them  joyously pour out their inanities by the hour,
and embellish them with pretty laughter ; she watched their
free motions in awkward embarrassment, marveling how they did
it, and vainly.striving to find a proper attitude and arcomely place
for her hands, and to hide her obtrusive, ill shod feet, which-
would always protrude from the antiquated, formless garments
which her mother's thrift economically saved up for her. :
To-day she was free, gay, at ease, though sometimes the shadow
of her home-life dropped upon her for a little, and she had to be
roused as from a spell  Ruth Blair was. the' only friend 'she had
made since her great bereavement. She had ,not, been a day
at school in her life ; Mrs. Goldsmith told her with grinrelish,
when she begged to be permitted to go,.that she "allowed;she'd
.fooled away about time enough amongst trumpery books and "now
she was goin' to be kep to something useful ;" and shewas "kep,"
thoughtthe widow had to rack her brains sometimes for the tasks,

I

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.


62          WiDOW GOLDSMITII'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       63

she being the while in a state of hard enjoyment of her only
daughter's struggles under her iron rule.
When in process of time Ruth Ashinead settled herself easily
and comfortably in the chilly house, as though it had been the
most enjoyable 'residence in the world, little Chris nestled up to
her like a kitten to its mother. She shared her bed and her
- thoughts with the young teacher, and the friendship was the one
gay sunbeam which shone on her hopeless life. : Lively, talkative,
and amusing, as well as helpful and efficient, Ruth gained without
apparent effort an influence over the widow, which procured for'
poor over-worked Chris some little relaxation, and brief snatches'
of enjoyment. She helped her with her "stent," she looked over
her drawings, directed. her studies, talked with her of her papa,
and sang with her-these last mostly at odd times while the
widow was abroad at female prayer-meetings and missionary so.
cieties. A homeless orphan, an ardent book-lover, was Ruthie,
and she quickly comprehended and fully* sympathised with Chris,
and did her best to harmonize her oddities, and encourage her to
battle with her painful .self conscious shyness, and when she got a
giant of a husband and a cosy home of her own, she had always
a warm welcome for the child, and revolved and executed many
plans for her benefit and pleasure.
Christabel stood with her little husband n her arms, thought-
fully watching Ruth's dressing, with face of sweet content.
"What a comical idea for you to go begging, Ruthie," said she.-
" Do you suppose you will like it ?"
"I don't imagine I shall-dote on it ; but if I succeed I shall be
very glad. I should be gladder still if I could, as- Captain Slo-
cum says, 'just put' my hand in my trousers and pull out the
money.' ! But blacksmithing 'don't . permk lavish charities, even
those which begin at home."
Chris smiled ; she liked Ruth's nonsense, and took great pleas-
ure in looking at her fresh face.
"You will of course go to the Walsinghams, 'nd Bradshaws,
and those. Mother disapproves of the Vedders, ('them Ved-
derses,' she calls them,) because they are Lutherans; but I think

they must be nice, they have such beautiful flowers. Will' you
,,.
go there ?"
" No dear. I intend taking the bull by the horns, that is, the
Gonecussets. I shall carry the war into Africa at once. I shall
valiantly pull the bell and say, 'Mrs. Deacon Williams, will you
contribute of your substance to alleviate the sufferings of human-
ity ?' I shall indulge in plenty of big words, for they inspire her
respect. She talks much about her various,= charities ; she has
plenty of money, and much reputation for piety; I expect a great
yield from my tillage in that quarter. You see I have faith like
a grain of mustard-seed. She is the mother of many Grachis,
and must have lots of old toga puerillises to dispose of; I shall
virtuously permit her to be Lady Bountiful, and make me her
almoner. I shall call next upon the minister's wife, the Rev.
Mrs. Growing; she, in virtue of her position, must be ready-for
every good work. I expect I shall have to call a truck to cart
home all. the things, and- if they come before I do, 'please take
them in, for I'm coming too. Good-bye,, dear Chris; take good
care of the little 'husband. Perhaps I had better lock the book-
case before I go, remembering your frailties; please don't cook
the chicken by a book, as you did those sausages."
"Don't tease, Ruthie," said Christabel, blushing up; '' let by-
gones be' by-gones; I won't forget myself this time."
"And look here, Chris dear," drawing the reluctant girl up
before the mirror. " There's 'a brush and comb in this drawer,
and here is a clean collar; you always let me remind you, and
poke you up, you know ; and' we'll stitch and talk, and have a
gay.time this evening; and Ill remember all the funny things I
see for you."


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGIITER.       65

CHAPTER SIXTH.
GOING B EGGING.
THE storm was over, and the trees were clothed in sheen, and
every long icicle twinkled and glistened in the sunshine, The
frozen ground rung out crisp and clear under each foot-fall, and
little Mistress Ruth walked briskly along, her round face cheerful
and fullof.'busy hope, her red riding-hood as becoming as possi-
ble, and her quilted cloak suggestive of absolute comfort. To be
sure she noticed- the Siberian sables which Adeliza Euphemia
Hitchcock displayed as they exchanged bows on the corner of
Pinnacle Place, but she was too full of her errand to give them
as much attention as they merited; she felt sure people must see
the case as she did, tmd she would only have to mention the needs
and sorrows of the poor creatures, and receive the warmest and
readiest response to her appeal, and that they would so open
their hearts and purses -that she would return laden with gifts.
She' rang Mrs. Deacon Williams' door-bell with, a firm hand and
a most. assured mien. -She was a modest little woman, too, not
given to thrust herself forward.
Deacon Williams was, as old Miss Pettengill observed, "a pil.,
low" in the church. He was rich, enterprising, President of the
Gonecusset Manufacturing Co., and felt himself to be quite the
little great man of Millville, or at least his wife felt it for him.
George Blair said "she ruled him not wisely but too well."  She
was a stout, powerful woman, nearly a head taller than her lord ;
what people call "personable" in appearance, and though she
murdered the King's English, and afforded much mirth to the

thoughtless young girls, who were fond of quoting her queer ren-
derings of her mother tongue ; she had her say in the church
and society, and was run after and felt her importance, and insist-
ed that others should both feel and acknowledge it. Any project
started. without consulting Mrs. Deacon Williams, was frowned
down. and discouraged by her and her followers, and it would
have argued much want of savoir faire in Mistress Ruth to have
commenced her visits elsewhere than at the fine showy house
on the corner of Gonecusset Street.
A grim-faced girl opened the door about a hand-breadth, who
scowled at the red riding-hood, and, answered inquiries as if
Ruth's ring at the bell had been a personal affront.
"I s'pose she's to whoam; I seen her on the top of the larder
just now. Miss Williams ! here's a woman wanting of you."
She pointed to the parlor door with her parboiled finger, and
'tramped off flat-footed, growling about having to answer the
bell, and "me wid the work of two gells and a -man to do," and
disappeared, banging the door after her.
Ruth, left to her own devices, finding Mrs. Williams -did not
appear, pushed gently at the half-opened door, and entered the
showy apartment, where she perceived the lady on the top of a
step-ladder busily engaged in hanging some curtains of embroid-
ered lace, which the Deacon had brought her as a peace-offering
for a little matter in which he had attempted' to have his own
way, and signally failed, and been forced to pay dearly for the
audacious attempt besides.
"Good morning, Miss Blair ;" she looked down as patronizingly
as the precarious tenure of her dangerous elevation would permit.
"I'm dreadful busy,.you see ; I ain't ashamed to be keen work-
ing ; I couldn't trust this kind 'of a job to imy help. I'll be
through in a minute, as soon as ever I've tacked up this cornish."
Ruth followed the lady's motions in unconscious anxiety;,and
thought peradventure she might come down before that, if she
did not mind well the center of gravity, for the slender ladder
tilted suspiciously under the weight of her stout person. But the
last finishing touches to the upholstery were put, and the descent


66         wInow GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

effected without accident from the sigltly pedestal, only a little
unexpected development of fat calves and knit garters.
"I declare I should want to be a statute if I was going to stop
up there long. Dir. Scudder told us to the missionary meetin'
last night,-about folks standing ever so many years  n the top-
of a, pillar-',skylights' they call 'em. (Not very far for 'sty-
lites.'). I shouldn't believe a word on't if he hadn't a been a
minister. I don't see you'to Thursday night meetings much
now; can't you make your husband take care of the baby ? ought
to tend up to the means of grace--I always dp."
Without waiting for a reply to her admonition she plunged into
so many details of her domestic management, and her troubles
with her- help, that it was not till she paused for breath that Ruth
even triedto.edge in her little story; but she finally did it in a
few chosen words, and drew a touching picture of the helpless,
starving baby, and. her voice got tremulous and her eyes tearful
before she finished.
"Well now, du tell! I want to know ! If that ain't curous ;
some- children will live through lots."
" Not an article of clothing I assure you, Mrs. Williams ; and
the rest as ragged and miserable as possible "
" Unlucky ! I do declare-; I don't allow I've got a single rag
left that I can anyways spare. I allers sell my old duds to the
Jew peddlers.; .I get a good many nice pieces of chany that way ;
it saves my husband considerable in the course of the year, our
family is so dreadful caustic."
" Perhaps-you might send them a little pork, or butter, or flour,
or something edible; I give you my word that you can't send
amiss."
".There ain't no sense- in .beggars in this land of plenty," re-
torted Mrs. Williams, ,with considerable sharpness, offended and
astonished by the bold suggestion; "let folks work and earn their
living , Isay, and not. hang on to other folks.  I object to encour-
agin' such on principle. If I have anything to give away I aillers -
send -it to the missionaries. I and the Deacon and all the children
are life-members of most all the benevolent societies goin', and that

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGIITER.

is nigh about all we can afford, besides what we have to give to
keep the church agoin'. Old clothes don't count nothing, neither.;
they just take and put 'em on and wear'em out, and come traipsing
back after more. --Let 'em go to-the poor house if they can't take'
care of themselves ; that's what we pay' our taxes for I s'pose."
Poor little Ruth felt her hopes oozing out at her-fingers' 'ends,
but she bravely essayed one more trial.
"Couldn't you -go down and visit this family, Mrs. Williams ?
The husband and father lost his life in the employ of the Gone.
cusset Company, and pardon me if I say that I think they have
claims upon it in consequence."
She felt'her cheeks grow hot, and her voice vibrated upon Mrs.
Williams' ears in a way that made her turn from her interesting
occupation, (looping up her curtains over their scarlet cords,) and
stare at, the little pleader in simple astonishment. She, also
glanced 'at her own stoutness in her great mirror. Such audac-
ity ! Though her sleeves were rolled up, and her portly figure
was protected by a check apron, anybody could -see, with half an
eye, that she was a leading person ; not' one of the genie descent,
to be sure, but a " first-lady" in Millville
There wassomething in the tone of Ruth's voice and her glow-'
ing face which checked the coarse reply which rose to her lips ;
besides this young blacksmith's wife was hand-and-glove with the
Bradshaws, and Craigenfells, and the rest of the Roaring River
set-those "indifferent apes," as the Deaconess sometimes wrath-
fully called them-who rarely accepted invitations to her showy
parties, and who passed. her by on the other side generally, and
it would not do to display the cloven foot too visibly.
How lucky it is that we cannot see into each other's thoughts!
Little Ruthie' was much disturbed in the pause which followed
her last shot, and in which 'the Deaconess turned her back upon
her and dusted the center-table with her' apron, and pulled about
the costly trifles upon it. 'Poor' silly'little Ruth began' to think
how she should get out gracefully, and to be sorry that she had
come in. The grandeur and the air of lavishness and abundance
in this pretentious house oppressed' her, and made her own bed


68.        WIDOW GOLDSMIIITS DAUGHTER.

longings seem poor and mean by comparison. . In spite of, her
excellent sense, her cultivation, and her sincere piety, she had
her foibles, she longed for the flesh-pots, she loved handsome
clothing and well-appointed surroundings; her tea tasted best out
bf her grandmother's egg-shell china, and she smiled most at
herself in her -one grey silk and delicate lace'ruffles. Very weak
and foolish, of course, but Ruth Blair was far from "being perfect,
and it' cost her a constant effort to keep her tastes? locked- in her-
self, lest they should take the form of vain desires, and so seem a
reproach to her noble husband's poverty. Besides, Mrs. Wil-
liams' manner was very brusque and unpleasant, and she put on
the stand-aside attitude which people well-to-do' in the world are
apt to assume toward employees; and though Ruth saw through'
her pretensions, and knew her own value, still their relative posi-
tions made her uncomfortable ; she felt shabby in her red riding-
hood, (the Deaconess's maroon velvet bonnet with bird of Para-
dise plume, and her cloak to match, were hanging over a chair in
the corner,) and she began to pluck nervously at 'her woollen
gloves, and wish she was at home with Pigeon._
Finding her awkward feelings getting the better of her, and
that the first Gonecusset was near making her'cry, she rose with
a hasty "good morning," but before she reached the door Mrs.
Williams seemed struck-with a brilliant idea.
" Hold on a minute, Miss Blair," said she ; " I've thought of a
plan that will be as pat. as a pancake for them poor folks-just
the chequer. You see I and Miss John Bisbee and Miss Square.
Hitchcock are goin' to get up a sewin' society for benevolent pur-
poses; sit down-not there-them 'ed satin chairs ain't fit 'to set'
on, take this here one. We sent word to [iss Growing about it
yesterday, and. she sent back that she would 'cheerfully coope-
rate,' not that we expect any great shakes from her, but it looks
proper for the minister's wife 'to seem prominent. We thought
we'd make up a missionary bowx; old Miss Pettengill's sister, Se-
nantha Pettengill, you know, married that Mr. Snuffer that come,
home last year after his seventh wife, and they have gone out to
labor amongst the Arabs or the Curds, I forget which'; 'tenarate

she keeps, all the while writin' home, Semantha :does, for things;
and Patience, that's old Miss Pettgngill, ydu know, has been
hangin' on to me and the Deacon to have the church get up a
box, and the contributions are all published in the ' Misionary
Herald; but if you are a mind to take holt lively, and invite in
the folks your side of the river, we might fix up them poor fam-
ilies fast. I think myself that it would have a good look to get
such a classintothe Sunday, school-what they call guttergsnipes,
you know-put by themselves, of course they couldn't ,expect to
mix in with the rich children; .I believe it would have a salutary
effect. Don't you agree with me, Miss Blair? I think it would
be a good plan for you to take the class, and I'll make Mr. Grow-
ing teach them girls you've got. Zoe Walsingham and Sab 'iny
ought to have a man teacher anyway, and these sort of children
will stand knockin' and cuffin', and you used to be a scool-marm
you know, and I'll allow you' can manage 'em first rate."
Ruth smiled as-she sat down on the ottoman, and her self-poise
adjusted itself during the Deaconess's speech.
"I have long wished, Mrs. Williams, that there might be some-
thing done for the factory children, they are getting so numerous
and so unruly. Millville is quite a different place to what Roar-
ing River used to be. It pains me to see the poor ragged chil-
dren straggling about the fields, fighting, swearingall day Sun-
day. We've a good many candidates for the prison growing up
here I'm afraid, and I should be glad to assist any movement that
promises benefit to the neglected young vagabonds."
" Jes' so, Miss Blair, and I thought about sending Mike round
to see if you wouldn't like to have the first meetin' to your house.
I've been goin' to call upon. you ever since you got married. I
think the Deacons' wives ought to call upon, everybody in the
church, rich and poor, we are all one family, but.I'm so dreadful
busy all the while. It won't be much expense, only a plaintea,
one kind of cake, biscuits and dried beef or tongue, or some such
thing; we are goin' tohave that drawed into the constitution. I
shall haye Mr. Growing write it for us. Your house is so kinder
small I' thought mebbe you'd like to have it before they got to

I  .

WIDOW GOLDS IITII'S DAUGHTER  .       69


70        'WIDOoW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

coming' in too thick. We talk of invitin' in the young men, and
make it sort o' sprightly in the evenin's along ; Belle Brandon, she's
come home from school with my girl, and she's offered to cut out all
the fancy work if we'd have'a fair. She's a dreadful capable girl for
one of her age, and I expect she'd do .it up brown. I dunno but
what we might just as well 'have one. The young folks would
all take holt smart, I allow, for the sake of gittin' together, and
we could get a powerful sight of money out of the clerks and
such with a post-office, and tellin' their fortunes, and all-that.
I'm proper glad you happened along just;as you did ; Miss Grow-
ing hasn't got notove up in her front parlor, and I'm so conflict-
ed with the tick-doloro that I don't never dast to say I'll -do
nothing a day aforehand ; and Miss John Bisbee sent me word
last-night that her Hiram was took down with the diabolical dis
ease, so she can't have it, and you seem to be the one to begin.
We've agreed to let-Mr. Growing read' the notice Sunday, and
have the first meetin' next Thursday."
Mrs. Blair hardly knew what to say to this arrangement which
was all cut and dried and poked at her. George did not think
highly of sewing societies, she had heard him say so; he gave,
ludicrdus accounts of one where he got his trade, which set half
the town by the' ears ; still she was rather pleased to be counted
in, and her-"Horse Shoe" fixed upon for the first convocation ;
and she inly smiled as, she was conscious of the emotion. Her
associations-lay mostly among the old families around- the hills ;
that they were not much nearer-was the fault of her own shrink-
ing pride, and not their neglect. She had "boarded round " also
among thesGonecussets, but they never seemed to think her worth
cultivating, nothing but school-ma'am, and now lower still in the
social scale, "married to one of our men."  Ruthie knew this,
and foolishly resented it; but'still she liked their enterprise and
bustle and mechanical skill; their 1'ng-headed forethought, their,
capacity to conduct their large business ; she liked their success
and its generous fruitage. They kept their"families handsomely,
drove fine horses, they could come and go at pleasure without
'counting the cost;- in short, as old Miss Pettengill said, they

"acted rich," and Ruthie often found herself thinking how much
such a generous life was to be prefei-red to her straightened econ-
omy ; and she fully appreciated the force of Captain Slocum's
remarkP: "Poverty ain't no disgrace, but .it's darned ' inconven-
ient."
Mrs. Ruth was somewhat flurried with ,the prospect of a tea-
drinking, a thing she had never yet felt equal to; she had a con-
sciousness that she could shine - in the position of hostess if she
had but free scope for her efforts, aid really, the working out of
the great principles of benevolence inspired -her with quite a little
glow. She saw already, in her mind's eye, whole regiments Of
lagged regulars clothed, their wants- supplied, their desperate
needs turned into abundant plenty. And the first flowering of
this plant of glorious promise was to be brought forward, forced
as it were, in her Horse Shoe. Well, well! there was an eclat
about that at any rate ; something worth' striving for. Putting
away therefore all her dread of George's certain raillery or his
possible displeasure, she assented to Mrs. Williams' proposal,
set down her insolence to ignorance, 'and bade' her a- cheerful
"good morning."
As she turned from the highly ornamented iron gate,'-which
clanged after her, she felt as if it were - hardly worth her 'while
to solicit further aid 'for her proteges, for whom this well of con-
solation was about to be opened, from which they were -to, draw
comforts by the' buckets"full; still as several- days must elapse
before the important Thursday, and she remembered the forlorn
han.bone, 'guiltless of meat, which .she had seen boiling at the
old school-house, she determined to pursue 'her' original intention
so far as to call upon'the young pastor's wife.
'As she walked along she thought of her noble-Giant, and went
over to herself all the strong arguments she should be obliged to
use to defend her project from his teasing raillery, and she smiled
at the fancied '"Jove" she heard him utter under breathewhen
she told .him. "' Still," said she,' aloud, "'I -know George is-too
good' a husband to show up his wife, even = if he does not thor-
oughly approve, making it evident that I amii not mistress of :my

71


72

WIDOW GOLDSMITH's DAUGHTER.

actions ; and though he may tease me unmercifully, I know he
will end in helping me out."
Thus far they had floated their life-boat on a smooth and pleas-
ant current; they had yet to try the dangerous rocks of ambition,
self-will, and hidden passions.
The expense of the-undertaking appalled her, and she was
silly enough also to feel dismayed by the unfurnished state of her
parlor, =which she rarely used in winter ; but her self-respect soon
got the better of that, and she took trouble. to explain to herself
that "of course it is not like giving a party ; the ladies will' be
too full of good works to criticise my furniture ;" and she really
enjoyed in anticipation her little triumph in the way of biscuits
as white as snow.
"I'll take goodcare that Jerusha Judkins does not get into my
pantry. I think she's 'first cousin' to Alvira Slimins; I wonder if
it isn't brimstone which makes those old maid milliners so spiteful."
While she was running over in her mind the recipe for crullers
which Grandma Walsingham gave her, and making a mental cal-
culation of the nullber which would be needed, she was ushered
into the presence of the Reverend Mrs. Growing.-
The parsonage nursery was in a wing, and the seven-sided bay
window overlooked the hollow, which was laid' out and fancifully
planted, and there sat the minister's wife with her five young
children around her, a child's wagon in the center of the room,
and playthings scattered in all directions: revolving steamboats,
dancing-jaclks, trains of cars, vaulting dolls, barking dogs, and
crying babies, all in: full blast ; and the emotionless mother look-
ing helplessly on amid.the wreck of matter. She had light eyes,
light hair, and a whity brown complexion, a. kind of washed out
appearance, and an air of quiescent selfishness which made the
charity-seeker feel at once-that she was come on a bootless errand,
and it required allthe pluck Mistress Ruth could muster to ena-
ble.her to-broach the subject.
At the first breath of appeal she noted an, unspeakable gather-
ing of herself together in the minister's wife, and her eyes really
got fishy, so-'vacant were they of interest in the subject.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S- DAUGHTER.              73
" I'm very sorry for them, I'm .sure ; but I don't call to mind
anything that I can spare. Mr. Growing's salary is so small we
have to economize very closely. Joey, don't take the hammer to
that steamboat ! there it goes, all to pieces, and I paid five dollars
for it only Christmas-naughty boy !"
Mrs.~ Growing had a fine property of her own, and it was whis-
pered, and in fact pretty generally believed, that this attraction
was the main one which the struggling young minister had seen
in her, and which' proved strong enough to induce him to make
her Mrs. Growing. If so, he must have. bitterly bewailed his
folly,
"I will look about, Mrs. Blair, and if I find anything I will
send it around to you.. How is your dear baby? Family all
well ?"
"Quite, thank you.   These poor souls are in -desperate
need; the smallest help in food or clothing will be heavenly
charity ; in fact, I don't see how they are to live without
help."
"Yes-ahem-I dare say, but I usually make it a principle to
bestow my-mite within the bounds of our own congregation ; be-
sides there are sisters of charity in all our cities who make it a
business to look after their own poor, and I should recommend
that they immediately remove where they cani be legitimately
cared for. I have a horror of those papists pouring in upon us;
I am afraid we shall suffer in our morals as a community ; they
are wretched, ignorant creatures, and so debased I really tremble
for our village," and the excellent shepherdess performed a virtu-
ous shudder over the thought.
Little Ernest Growing had been standing by his mother's
chair, an interested listener to the talk, and he turned his wistful
blue eyes, full of.tears, to her face, and said:
"' Mama, don't you think those poor children are some of the
'little ones' papa read about this morning-Christ's little lambs ?
How I should like to give them something. You know grand-
mother has sent me a new beaver; can't I send my old 'cap? it
isn't so very old, and I should like to feel that it was keeping that


'74

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

poor boy warnr. - Oh dear'! -oh dear ! how cold his poor feet must
have been out in 'the snow all bare naked; and they bled, too.
Mama, we must go at once and carry them plenty of things."
There was a tingling of shame as well as anger in Mrs. Grow-
ing's cheek as she rose hurriedly and -pushed Ernest ' away from
her; 'she snatched a spool from number 'three with a little shake,
and ordered him to "be quiet, and not ,drive her frantic with his
noise."  She glanced sidewise at Mrs. Blair, and caught her look-
ing at Ernest, '(who leaned against the rocking-chair,:'weeping
silently,) ready'to cry'herself, and 'longing to take the gentle little
fellow up in her arms and comfort him.
"There, there, Ernest, 'don't 'be silly," said 'Mrs. Growing.
'"I'll look around when I have time ; I dare -say I can find soine-
thing, though of course he's a low, vicious child, a thief very
likely.
"'We'll send'the cap and I'thik the coat too," said 'Ernest, 'in
a soft, decided. voice.'
Mrs. Growing thought best not to hear her son's reply, and
smiled blandly upon Ruth: "You will join the German class;
Mr. "Growing quite counts upon "George,' as 'he calls your 'hus-
band, to assist him; he says he is an accurate scholar:"  And
flowing 'her to the door she added: ""My boy is so tender"heart-
-eied give the coat off his 'back, 'but of course one must use
judgment in giving, especially when one's' means are limited."
A    r . Bir 'hurried home she communed with herself
'Wellell, there'll be a precious how-do-you-do in thit'house
presently. That boy'is going 'to despise his mother'; I could not
stand that from Pigeon. How pitiful 'he'looked 'with 'his earnest
blue eyes; how like 'he is to his father. Ie is one' of Christ's
little lambs 'for certain, but 'he won't live to grow up; 'indeed, Inm
mistaken if he stops here much longer ;I think he's nearly ready for
the'call to cometup higher ; how pale and clear his face is. Well,
well.! how that woman could say she had nothing to give, and
she =earis more costly garments than any other lady in the
chuih, andla y s looks dowdy'at that; and her children have
the' ost expensive of every thing. I can't'do any beterI'll

WIDOW. GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              '5
cut up -a pair of George's breeches, as he calls them; there's
tho ,e plaid ones, I never could abide them. What a world this
is, to be sure, and the best of the joke is that Ruth Blair is a
part of it, a very small part, more's the pity. If I were but rich
now, I would surely be very good."  Then she laughed as she
repeated to herself, "Is thy servant a dog that he should do this
thing ?" -
She was still in full enjoyment of this sarcastic fling at her
goodness, when she felt a light touch upon her shoulder. She
had been speeding swiftly along, with her eyes upon the ground,
and she stopped short, startled out of her reflections, and redden-
ing angrily. She met the friendly glance of a., pair of grave,
black eyes looking down upon her, and her face put on a most
cordial welcome, and she thrust out both. her chubby hands, which
were taken possession of immediately.
" Why, Otho Groenveldt ! It is, is it not'?"
"To the best of my belief it is, Ruthie-Mrs. Blair, I suppose
I must call you, as you have been getting made a matron of, You
still keep your old fashion of talking with yourself; I came near
being the 'depositary of some of 'your secrets."
"Oh yes, Otho ; I keep. all my old fashions, only I have been
adding some excellent new ones to my stock. But pray where
did you alight from, and where are der vatter unt der mutter?"
" At home, just as you knew them. He in his dressing-
gown and smoking-cap, the one you embroidered still keeps
its place of prime favorite; and he works diligently at color-
ing the meerschaum  I bought him as souvenir of Natolea, 'and
he has many precious beetles added to his collection. The.
mother, bustling, determined, and busy as ever, and always
talking kindly of Ruthie Ashmead. My sister Bertha has been
studying too 'ferociously,' to use their latest school-girl slang,
in cramming for the' last examination, and has taken to herself
'divers headaches which wet towels would not cure; and she
got permission to turn off steam -a while, and we 'have availed
ourselves of utinele Alec's often repeated invitation Ito' use his
mansion at our pleasure. I left her but now resting herself up

0


1

.WIDOW- GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.     "77

7A0          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
at the Craigenfells, her face steeped in an aromatic decoction
which maketh the noses of all who smell it- to tingle ; carefully
watched. and attended by Deborah, who has evidently been long-
ing for a child to coddle, and looks as happy over her nursing as
a boy with his first love. Eh, Ruthie ?"  (His odd smile made
Ruth turn away her face, though she could not free her hands.)
" We arrived late last evening, and Bertha dispatched me with
orders to find you and bring you face to face ;:she is all amiable
impatience to renew her tendresse for her little teacher. He should
be a rare fellow, Ruthie. who stole you away from us.. We missed
you more than you would believe ; the Prof. is still in love with
die kleine fraulein, and all my foreign travel, and the countless
Dutch beauties I have seen have not blotted out the memory o
the past you wot of."
"The dear Proff.!" said Ruth, ignoring the latter part of his
speech; "how I should like to go snailing with him once again.
But Otho, do you know I am so happy ! I can't believe I was
ever the homeless girl who floated about the. world unclaimed.
Life is real and earnest to me now,". she added; her eyes full of'
honest brightness.  You must see my husband, and my baby,
Otho."
"Indeed, Ruthie, have you also arrived at a baby ?"
"cOh yes,.and, you will say I have good right to be proud of
him, such. a noble fellow ! Of course you will come home with
me and dine ?  George should be there by this time."{
While she -gave. the invitation .she threw a furtive thought
amongst her household goods, and the dinner she had left in prep-
aration, and fervently hoped' that Chris would prove equal to her
times.-
"=With pleasure, Ruthie; I am sure you are a merry, thrifty,
busy little housekeeper. I remember your cocoanut'pies and
those marvelous peach shortcakes you fabricated in vacation time,
when we had ' Rose-in-Bloom' all to ourselves, and I shall be-
glad to know your husband. Is he a better man than , Ruthie ?"
straightening himself, and glancing down upon her in a kind of
malicious pride.

a

"Don't talk nonsense, Otho!" replied Mrs. Blair, snatching
away her -hands, coloring violently, and turning aside her
head with a conscious petulant air which well became her. "I
thought you had 'grown wiser."
"-The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learn-
ing to his lips," said Mr, Groenveldt, keeping close by Ruth's side,
who walked quickly on without speaking.
He was a tall, slender, dark man, young, not much more than
twenty, but so wanting in youthful jollity of manner as to seem
much older. A cool, quiet, dignified' reserve marked his inter-
coutse with his fellows, and much less of tenderness of tone than
he had been using just now. The latent fire which slept in his
black eyes sparkled out unexpectedly sometimes. Accustomed
to weigh himself in a mental balance of his own adjusting, and
to take his own way without opposition; a good lover he was,
and a good hater. Strangers and outsiders passed him by with-
out striking any fire out of him; but his few friends loved him
passing well.
The dinner was 'ready cooked when they reached the "MHorse
Shoe."
"Ruth, why dd you call this dear pretty little 'cottage' the
'Horse Shoe?"' said Chris, one day.
" For the same reason that the friars wore hair-cloth, to mortify
the flesh," replied Ruth, laughing, and laughing still more at
Chris's puzzled face.
' The stalwart husband was already arrived, and sat before the
glowing fire with Pigeon in his arms, and in a great frolic. The
delighted youngster's fat little hands were buried among his fath-
er's crisp curls, which he was doing, his best to pull out by the
roots, and he was sending forth that gurgling chuckle which be-
longs to well-nursed babyhood in a choice bit of mischief, and at
every duck and' dive of the massive head he nearly went wild
with delight.
Ruth glanced at her husband with fond pride as she presented
him to her old friend, but withal a trifle anxiously, she wished so
much that he should appear to advantage ; and she smiled and


WIDQW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
her:brow cleared when he rose, something disheveled, but with
grand hospitable simplicity, cordially offered his hand to the guest.
Each took the-measure of the other on the instant, and the result
seemed mutual satisfaction. They shook hands heartily like old
friends, and stood conversing before the cheerful fire, while Ruth
tool Pigeon in her arms and devoured him' with kisses; her
cheeks were flushed and her eyes humid with emotion, which she'
strove to conceal or subdue by her caresses. Whatever the feel-
ing was, she battled with it and forced it out of sight, and was at
once the gay, cheerful, busy little woman her household duties
always made her.
Christabel Goldsmith was seated in a corner before the wifidow,
buried soul-deep in Geoffrey Hamlin's entrancing "Recollections."
She never moved nor spoke when Ruth and Otho entered, nor
heard anything going on in the room. Though faithful to her
housekeeping charge and baby-tending, as soon as the responsi-
bility was taken off by George's coming, she sank away into iso-
lated forgetfulness. With the most absolute intention to act upon
Ruth's hint about her'tangled mat of uncared-for curls, she had
entirely failed to do so. The book lay ready to her hand, arid it
was only by a brave effort that she refrained from reading till
Mr. Blair came home, and took his baby in his arms and began
tossing him up to the ceiling. Then she seized the volume ea-
gerly, dropped into a seat and forgot everything about her.
As if in a trance she sat within the " Golden Vineyaid,'' on
the delicious veranda, looking out between the tangled passion-
flowers, geraniums, and magnolias. She smiled at the magpie
who cape furtively out of the house with the key in his mouth,
and the cockatoo who entered waddling comfortably, and talking
to himself. She laughed heartily at the wicked kitten who am-
bushed around the corner, and upset her mother, knocking her
over, and severely maltreating her-; and the jackdaw who dug
up the doctor's choice bulbs with fearful od4hs, considering the
burying of the same, at which he had slyly assisted, as a feat en-
tirelyjn his own line; the kangaroo rats, the puppies, the collies,
the bushman, were all real and living around her. Hundreds of

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

79

gay paroquets flashed- their rainbow plumage in the white gum-
trees, and the tame kangaroos sat like dogs at her feet. The dis-
tant yell of the rough convicts driving their cape cattle, sounded
in her ears; the soft air lapt ands folded her about as her wrapt
soul surrendered. itself to the entrancing vision in the keenest
enjoyment. It is certainly one of the most charming books ever
written, and it is no wonder that our Chris lost herself amidst its
delights.
Ruth was tying Pigeon into his high chair, preparatory to set-
ting on the dinner, and George came and slyly twitched her.sleeve
and pointed out the young reader, with an odd grimace of whim-
sical drollery.
"You might fire off a cannon in this very room and she
wouldn't hear it. In all the-deuce that Pigeon and I have raised
she hasn't stirred a peg," he whispered.
She sat with- both feet drawn up on the round of the high
chair, her elbows resting on her knees, and her face in her hands,
of which she had made a scoop, her extended forefingersstopping
her ears, and her two long middle ones meeting over her eyes,
and her thumbs beneath her chin. Thus she habitually shut out
the world from her consciousness when she retired into a favorite
volume.
Three or four buttons were off her dress, which gaped un'tidily,
refusing to be brought together by the pin she had borrowed
from her collar-for that purpose; and that finishing article of
toilette, cut loose. from responsibility, had fallen off and disap-
peared in parts unknown. Her fruzzled hair, dressed a la frantic
by Pigeon's manipulations, was ornamented here and. there by
bits of down she had .acquired burrowing with him among the
pillows ; two or three stray tresses fell over her shoulders, demon-
strating how beautiful they could be in color and texture if the
owner would= make much of them. Her little white teeth showed
between her red lips, parted in a smile at the story she was rev-
eling in. But withal the slender figure looked forsaken and neg-
lected ; her dress of dark plaids stuff was too short in the sleeves,
too scanty in the skirt. Mrs. Goldsmith's economy would not


8O         WIDOW GOLDSMITH's DAUGHTER.

permit her to cast'aside any garment which could be pieced down
or otherwise made available; and her prim, narrow ideas discour-
aged from principle (she said, and she snuffed when she said it,
and snapped her eyes,) all love of "silly dressing up" in her
daughter. A pair of rusty, ragged shoes, worn down into wrin-
kles at the heel, and tied with coarse leather strings, covered her
slender feet. (Ah, where were the dainty slippers and Polish
boots edged with sable which her fond papa had loved to see~her
in ?)
" Poor dear" said Ruth, sighing ; " she has a pitiful life of it.
Her mother is such an uncharitable grinder, she makes m~y heart
ache every time I see her ; I wish I. could help her. Dods she
not look as if reading against time, gathered up for a spring .any
instant. It really seems a pity to break in upon her; these mo-
inents are the happiest ones she knows. I must, though, for she
shall smooth herself a little for dinner--and Bertha is so nice.'
What do you suppose Otho will think of her ? too bad,.isn't it ?
Christabel, dear," going softly up to 'her; "in what fairy-land
are you wandering.?"
Chris threw down. the volume, started swiftly to her feet, and,
stood with her hands nervously clasped together reddening up to
her temples.
Ruth smiled at her, and pointed playfully to the discarded book.
She answered with a smile bright and sweet, but still half asham-
ed of her abstraction:,
"IHow' you frightened me, Ruth," she said hurriedly. "I
thought it was mother. = I had gotten everything ready, you 'see ;
I never once looked into Geoffrey's story till George took Pigeon,
and I had nothing else to fill up the minutes, you know, and it
lay on the staid all the while, coaxing me, too. Mother says it's
wicked to be idle ; Satan' gets after idlers."
"You forgot this, love, said Ruth in a whisper, lifting one of
the stray curls.,
"Oh well, that does 'not-matter," she answered, jerking her
head aside'; "I could, not bear to' waste a precious moment on
that, an&amp;to tell true,,I forgot all about it ; but nobody minds how
Lookk"

wIDlO.W GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              81
"I mind, darling," said Ruth, tenderly kissing her flushed
cheek; a feat.which she accomplished by standing on tip-toe.
" Three can play at that game," said George, thrusting his head
over the other shoulder ; "and a very nice game it is."
She faced about upon him with flashing eyes; and gave his
curly head a smart push, "Grosse tete et peu de sens," said she.
"Garde bien!1" and as he still looked full of daring mischief, she
.raised her hand to her burning cheek and stepped quickly aside.
"Blue stocking ! blue stocking !" said George, with a teasing,
mocking laugh.
"Can it be possible, Mr. Blair," said she, with a quick change
from sauciness to anger, " that you mean to remind me?"  She
glanced down at the white footing which her blue mixed stockings
had received. " Very well, laugh away."     ._    -
Before she had time to listen to' George's protestations, she en-
countered the gaze of a tall young stranger fixed upon her in
grave inquiring wondelt  The vexing laugh died on her ears, and'
she forgot her anger beneath the scrutiny of his thoughtful, ear-
nest eyes. - She-stood with dilated nostrils, 'like some scared wild
creature.brought to bay in the forest by a power never felt be-
fore, and her soul looked out at her great brown eyes with timid
longing and startled dread. It was as if she were trying to gaze
into her future and read.her fate. Her bosom heaved, and tears
welled up in her eyes and brimmed over. It was but an instant,
and his firm, haughty mouth broke into a half-pitying, tender
smile, and he turned away. She sighed and flushed painfully,
even her hands blushed as she put them up to her tangled curls,
and she shuffled her ill-shod feet, unconsciously seeking to hide
their' clumsiness, and with restless haste she tried to slide away
from th e all; but Ruth's arm thrown around her waist arrested
her progress, and her loving voice reassured her.
"No, Chris dear," said she, softly'; "you shall not run away;
we are all ready now to eat the nice dinner you have  prepared.
I have looked at the chicken, it is dune to a turn, and liei'eris my
old friend Otho Groenveldt, who will sit at our frugali bod, ad
praise discriminating1y your cooking. 'He has but just ietutiled


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

from Germany and saur-kraut, and a bit of real genuine home-
hsta will be a luxury."
Chris bowed in a shy, awkward way, without lifting her eyes,
ard edged off to her favorite corner, behind the work-stand.
They considerately left her to herself, while they conversed
pleasantly together. Otho Groenveldt sat down where he could
study Chris without seeming to observe her.  He was puz..
zled; this was a new phase of feminity. Was she a Cinderella
without a god-mother ? The wistful, pleading look her eyes had
given him, followed him in all his talk with George, and he caught
himself between his replies trying to account for the tears. IHe
saw without looking that she had sunk into a chair in a half
crouching posture, and was absently studying the pattern of' the
carpet.
Mistress Ruth, flitting hither and thither, setting on the sa-
vory chicken, dishing up the limas, bringing out a pile of fresh
doughnuts, and a, pot of what she called coffeette, viz., breakfast
coffee boiled over for dinner, came around after a while to Chris:
in her corner, and said with quiet matter-of-fact face:
"You did beautifully, dear."
"I think," answered Chris, half unconsciously, "tIat is a mis-
application; deeds may be glorious, wonderful, meritorious, but
scarcely beautiful."
"Wake up,. Chris !" said Ruth, laughing, and shaking her.
"Everything is perfect, at all events, and after all, nothing is
nicer ina friend than availability, and to'get up a good dinner is
the surest way to win a heart; so Fanny Fern says, you know,
though I doubt if she is much of a cook. I intend to found a
college when George makes his rotary work, to be called the
'Blair University,' where young ladies shall receive degrees ; I'll
bestow on you a golden medal, dear. Now run, up and give your
pretty hair one little smooth, and slip on a clean apron; you will'
find some in the top drawer-and hurry down, there's a love"
Chris threw a shy look across at the two gentlemen. " Must I
come Ruth ? I'm such a-, bas bleu,' she finished, thrusting' out
her foot scornfully.

WIDOW. GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.,         83

u Odo't la that up against poor George, he did not nean
Oh,       Y                  -1
anything ; you must come to dinner, indeed ;twe shall not begin
withut ouand we'll have a nice talk ; Otho knows Germany.
tinthout you,an   e
by, heart."
Chris smiled with trembling lip, and allowed herself to be
Spushed through the door, which luckily was close at her
side  But on looking into the mirror a heavier cloud dropped
down over her face. It was such a shabby, unsightly figure which
met her eyes; never before had she felt so much dissatisfied with
herself, and ashamed of her untidiness. She lugged her dress
together, and tried'to fasten it firmly, but it would burst open:and
leave glaring gaps between the pins; her wrists showed bare and
poking out of her scanty sleeves, and the short waist up under.
her arms dragged across her bust, and looked narrow" and form-
less. "And my holiday is spoiled,". she said impatiently, "and
mecyony nos  he Ishall get another."  But she could not
pas;Ruth wold wait for her, and besides she could never
summon courage to face 'that stranger again if she stopped to
think about it.
"I don't suppose he has given himself the trouble to think of
me," she went on, while smoothing her hair and knotting it up
afresh ; but still when she came sidling in, she was intensely con-
scious of her hands and feet, and colored to her ear-tips as she
dropped into the place which Ruth pointed out, and which brought
her opposite to the quietly questioning eyes which studied curie
ously her downcast countenance.
Artist life in Europe! A subject made familiar by charming
tales of her dear papa's youth, so pleasantly told when they used
to sit in the cosy library, or were fishing in the.beck. They took
her back again over the graves of the dead years which had
crept away into silence since that happy time, and somehow made
her feel as she used then-quietly poised, sufficient to herself, and
before she knew it, she was laughing softly, and had already spo-
ken twice o' thrice. in a connected, graceful manner; with well-
chosen words, and ringing,' tuneful voice, which caused George
and Ruth to exchange pleased: glances, while they led her on;


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S .DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

- and Otho Groenveldt drew her out with 'quiet tact an:p  ful'
humor underlying his native gravity.     ;.
When they got to inince pie, George said, with a, uish look:
" By the way, Ruth, you haven't told us the result of your beg-
ging expedition."
Ruth laughed and looked foolish.
"Well,:I did not have to order a truck to fetch. home the pro-
ceeds, but I did find some effort afoot which I think will help us,
out."
"Indeed ! a subscription paper headed' by "-he was about- to.
say'Dame Goldsmith, but stopped in time, and substituted-" Mrs.
Deacon Williams."
"No sir, nothing of the sort; we are to have a sewing society,"
and: hurryingon-"before he had time to cut in with the railery she
expected, " we are to have the first meeting here next Thursday."
" Oh ny prophetic father," said George, under his breath ; "I
shall pack up my kit on Wednesday, and be ~off for parts un-
knowni."
"No you will not, George; you will be kind and help me out
of it... Now is the time for you to prove to Millville how good a
husband you can be."
She then detailed her morning's experience, exerting herself to
miake it amusing,.feeling all the while an under-current of anxiety
lest George should say ;something. in Otho Groenveldt's presence
which should sound hasty, or as if he did not, endorse her pro-
ceedings; and he did come near blurting out his disapprobation,
but seeing how fully she was enlisted .in the effort, he repressed
his desire to ridicule and condemn the whole thing;' only he said,
ruefully:
4 We masculines will have to catch it, eh, Groenveldt ? My
ears begin to tingle already. Dame Williams will deliver some,
of her lectures to young wives, on the management of ;their hus-
bands, teaching how to abridge our comforts and increaseour
tsefdilness."_
"Oh; what a dear'silly old giant you are George! Isn't he,
Pigeon?"

"Pretty papa," said Pigeon, patting"the vast shoulder with his
tiny palm. "Pigeon loves papa," with such a bland air of sub-
lime patronage as'to raise'a laugh at George's expense, and'cause
a diversion in Ruth's favor.
"You will let us husbands in to supper after you have talked
us up sufficiently, I suppose."
. "Of course; there has been nothing said to me about it. Mrs.
Williams mentioned her intention of inviting the young men for
the 'evenin's along,' but you know I could not consent to be a
party to any arrangement which would leave my lord and master
out in the cold."
" Bravo ! loyal little wife. Make a note ori't, Groenveldt."
"There is one thing I feel quite certain about," said Ruth, a
little tartly; "if I had Mrs. Williams's money I would buy fewer
laces and ribbons, and give away a trifle now and then, just for
the sensation which a virtuous action leaves behind it."
" Ruthie, Ruthie," said George, looking sober ; " I am afraid
there's a little grain of bitterness underlying that speech. ' You
haven't any mechlin laces, and you think your plump little shoul-
ders are fair enough to display what is thrown away upon her
elderly stoutness; and so they are, darling. Just wait a bit;
my rotary is very near working now, and we'll try if we can't
pump up a few knick-knacks - for- the blacksmith's wife ; only be
sure that you don't begin to push by Miss Craddoc. ' Ruth does
not admire~ the anvil chorus, Groenveldt ; she puckers up her
mouth when she finds cinders among my hair. She's a natural
born fine lady, is my Ruthie."
" For shame, {George'!" spoke up Ruth quickly, and getting
very red. " Do you suppose I would exchange places with any-
body ?  Do me the justice to understand that I would' rather
bide by my husband, the journeyman blacksmith, with my baby
in my arms, than to take the highest place the: world could offer
me."
While she talked she looked straight'into Otho"Groenveldt's
eyes, as if she were defying him;"and putting her hand upon
George's arm, she added, excitedly;

I

84

85


86         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

cDo you believe me, George ?"
"Of course, Ruthie," replied he, laughing. "Why what a grand
little tragedy queen it isI Upon my word, duck, you are nervous.
You are trembling; over-walked'to-day, I know; and that young-
ster is a drag on you.. We will have a nurse for the daughter, if
the rotary works. You didn't suppose I meant blame, did you,
dearest, (studying her changing face,) indeed I was only in fun."
"I confess I should like money to give away. I could use it if
I had it in a thousand pleasant things;, but I am not envious. I
do not covet fine clothes."  She said this as if forcing herself to
speak.
George gazed at her an instant with a disturbed, troubled'ex-
pression on his massive, honest face, and then burst into a laugh.
"The thing for us at present, my dear, is to regard riches as a
snare. It was the first pretty woman in the world, you remem-
ber, who was first tempted. - I dare say you think now that if you
had been there among the roses and the posies you would not have
touched the apple."
Ruth looking at her husband seemed to draw strength and rest
from him, so stable and good, and her face settled as she smiled,
and replied easily:
"There have been a great number of wise things uttered on
that apple business ; now since you mention it, I will jpst give
you the. benefit of my thoughts upon it."
" Certainly, duck; air your little opinions-what's to hinder ?"
"Ithink Adam was probably. standing -under the tree, looking
up at the luscious red apples, and wishing he only dare eat one,
when Eve came along with her arms full:of tube-roses with which
she. was going to dress the bower.
'Eve, said-Adam, 'pointing up, 'see those apples ; how nice
they look, don't. they ? I wonder if they are juicy? don't ,seem
as if they would, poison anybody, does it? What if you should
try one?'
Eve,.who was all obligingness and polite' submission to-her
lord, just reached up her pretty little hand without a word, and
picked one, and bit into it, and when she said it was good, Adam,

who had been watching, his mouth watering all the while, just
couldn't wait-to see whether -it was going to kill her or no, but
took it out-of her hand and ate the whole, and threw away the
core, and then picked-some for himself, and filled ,all his pockets,
and stuffed himself; and when he found his greediness had got
him into trouble, he made a proper fuss about her tasting first,
and said she tempted him; and then because he was afraid to be
left alone he followed her about everywhere, and whined and said
he would die with her ; and when they finally got turned,-out of the
garden, and had to dig and delve for their living, didn't she see to
things, and bring up the children, and keep the life and soul in that
silly sheep of an Adam, when he was ready to drop and give up
the ghost among the nettles ?"
" Oh," said George, making a funny side grimace at Otho, who
listened, much amused. "That was the way, was it?   Well,
Adam looks grand from that stand point, doesn't he, Groenveldt ?
How are you, Adam ?"
Otho smiled one of .his grave, half-smiles, and said:
"I perceive, Ruth, that you are on the same;platform with the
Right Reverend Dr. Perfect, that autocrat among the parsons.
He says there is not any devil, and of course he knows. You
also have ignored his satanship in your statement."
"Oh no," said Christabel, "she recognizes a very mean and
selfish one in the first Adam."
"Yes, dear, he found appropriate dwelling there, too andhas
made himself perfectly at home among his descendants."
"Well, what is it ?" asked Ruth, when George had burst into
hearty laugh-expecting some telling rejoinder.
"I was thinking of some scripture readings I heard once, when
I was a boy. I used .to go in those days to visit an aunt who
lived up in what-they called the ' black North,' a little beyond
the center of civilization, and as they had no rneeting-house or
stated minister, they used to assemble in the old school-house and
hold what they called 'reading meetings.' A pettifoging lawyer
generally stood forth and read the chapter, and a sermon; they
dispersed with-out any prayers. One day the sermon selected

WIDOW GOLDS3IITII'S DAUGHTER.,     87


88           WIDOW GOLDSMITH's DAUGHTER.
called for the chapter in Matthew about the seven spirits, and as,
his rendering of the text was rather original, I always remem-
bered it: 'And he took unto himself seven other spirits more
wicked than himself; and they returned and found the place,
empty,' sweet and. varnished; and they. entered in and deviled
there.
Oh, George," said Ruth, in a tone of serious reprbach- "I
think that is wicked."
"Why, it is true, Ruth ; that was what the fellow made-of it."
'"I can't help that. You should not make fun of the Bible."
"Well, I like that, now, considering That you began it."
Oh no, I assure you I based my statements upon Milton.".
"iMilton !".
"Yes, truly; Milton has a-great deal to answer for besides his
awful crossness to his daughters ; all that about the bower, and
the tossing the rebellious angels over the battlements, and Satan's
travels, figments of the great poet's imagination, and handed down
till they have got to be a part of orthodox theology."
'i Miss Goldsmith," said Otho to Christabel, marking her ab-
sorbed face, over which played, the gleam of some pleasant
thought. " You are about to make a remark, I think ; are you
for Adam or Eve ?"
" Oh," said she, hesitatingly, and turning red, ".I am ashamed
to say'that my thoughts had gone back to the money question."
"Pray give us the benefit of your conclusions," said Otho, in
some surprise.
"I can answer for her," said George. ' Fifteen-year old maid-
ens leave filthy lucre out of their calculations. Love in a cottage,
peaches and cream, roses and posies, with :sweet holy Poetry, en-
dearing all sacrifices for the precious fellow who has. such a cap- -
tivating moustache; coming down to breakfast in'a fine muslin
wrapper, said breakfast having got itself ready in 'some unae-
countable manner, and the tempting table adorned with vases of
hyacinths; a harp in the'cbrner, duets after breakfast, mooiilight
walks after supper. Ruthie can tell you what dreams she;had,.
and how she awaked from them."
"'Very likely," replied Chris, with curling lip.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S 'DAUGHTER.      89

" George, please'don't jest about our married life," put in
Ruth, with more spirit than the badinage seemed to merit.
'As if young -girls were not always. dreaming such dreams ;
aren't they, Chris
"I am sure I have no means. of knowing," answered Chris,
scornfully. "As I don't happen to know any young girls, and
rarely hear one speak, of course I can't;receive confidences upon
such interesting subjects. My own thoughts Were running in
quite a different channel. I was thinking that I should like to .be
very rich, the absolute possesswr of a great deal of money."
"Indeed !" said Otho, arching his brows,:and looking through
her eyes, trying to get a glimpse of the soul within. "You love
money, then ?"
"Yes, and no. Not for money's sake, to hoard and get mean
over, and despise myself about. But there is no comfort to be
had without it-no pleasures worth naming. I must see what
the world has in it worth seeing ; its grand cities, ancient castles,
its mountains and seas; there must be rare sights too down below
the blue water, where the sea lions and the sea bears live, where
the medusa and the polyp, who count by millions, entangle their
prey ; the great powerful castles and high, lofty towers sea ed on:
the bottom of the deep, which the 'Iaidens of the ocean,' as the
old Greeks called them, build; the blue and olive-green hedges
which shine in wondrous light as the day fades. It would be
rare and fine to go down and see them. I heard of a diver who
brought up a bracelet from the arm of a young girl in a wrecked
ship, and he told how the fragile sea plants were growing all
around her-(how strangely one would feel to wear that brace-
let.) I should like to possess books and pictures, and statues,
and vases, and flowers, and handsome clothes, and pleasant per-
fumes, and jewels,"--
Chris was now fairly launched, and sailing off. } She had drop-
ped her fork; and was gazing out before her, with the  rnapt vision
which was so aggravating to her mother-so like to her dead
father. She was brought up with a round turn by George, who
had been listening to her in open-mouthed astonishment.


9A           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
" Hold on! young woman," said he, catching her arm, "you
take my breath away. By Jove, I'm   dizzy. You love fone.
dresses and jewels ! you, who never know what you have on! so
at least Ruth assures me."
The merry mischief in his eyes, as. they roved over her form-
less= garments,; contrasting them in his thought with her nagnifi-
cent-desires, made her feel her absurdityin thinking out loud.
She glanced at Otho,-who; was smiling in curious astonishment.
She twisted her arm away, angrily, and George burst into a loud
laugh, and called out "encore !- bravo!"
" I am a nice target for your ridicule, George Blair ; so deli-
cate and kind of you. I thank you for adding a fresh luxury to.
my small stock of delights-that of hating you, which I. do most
heartily."_
Regarding him an instant with flashing eyes, she burst into a
passion of tears, and. dashed outof the room.
" My prophetic father," whispered George, giving vent to a,
prolonged whistle, and looking blankly a:tound him.
"'Oh, George ! how could i ou ? you know how sensitive she is.
You have hurt her' dreadfully."  .
"I didn't know," said George, ruefully; "but I'm learning, Ruth-
ie, I'm learning; women are rare creatures, passing my understand-'
ing. I never should have dreamed that 'there was a sleeping
volcano under that shy, quiet exteriors Jove !. how she did blaze
up at me ! Shall I catch her up, Ruth, and ask her to kiss and
be friends? .,I will if you say so; I always mean to be found in.
,the' path of duty, eh, Groenveldt ? No ! 'well you must make my
peacefor me, then; get up the best case you can-hasty, thought-
less, clumsy old fellow, -didn't mean anything, and so on;, I will"
endorse you, I am heartily sorry, upon, my life I am.
"There goes the bell! I must be off. I'm not a gentleman
of leisure, you see, Groenveldt-wish I was-mean to be some-
time. Ruthie shall have her 'carriage then; good-bye, Duck.
Kiss papa, Pigeon," and he hurried away to his work, pulling
himself into his overcoat as he went. Did he leave a shadow
upon his hearth-stone?

CHAPTER SE VENTH.
A LITTLE TALK..
WrnE Ruth opened the door into the-cold, half furnished par-
lor, into which Chris had rushed in her hasty' passion, she found
her where she had thrown herself, her face bowed in her crossed
arms, resting on the table;. and she still sobbing stormily.
"Dearest Christabel," said Ruth, taking the burning head into
her loving clasp, and wiping away the wellingtears. "You must
not be vexed -with poor George: you know he is always full of
jokes: and fun, He is as sorry as anything that he wounded
you."'
"Don't think me so silly as to cherish anger against him," said
Chris, as soon as she could speak. " I assure you there is only
room within me for rage against one individual, and that is my-
self. Such a silly, cackling, ranting fool as I was to go on ; I
got well laughed at, and I richly deserved it. But do you know,
Ruth, I forgot all of you, and when George touched me he made
meshiver;- such an odd feeling,, almost. as if I had been dead
and were coming. to' life again. Your friend thinks me a lacadai,
sical idiot,. I know he does'; I saw it in his face as plainly as. if
he had put it into words, in spite of the gravity he pulled over to
hide it. He very, likely thinks me a vixen, too; I am sure it is
of amazingly little consequence to me what he thinks."'
."I am sure you are mistaken, love," said Ruth, smiling in spite
of herself:
'But Ruthie, didn't I overset my chair behind me in my flight.
I thought I heard a clatter among the household stuff"


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       ,93

The brash moods chasing each other over her face were a
study just now, whimsical enjoyment of her -own absurdity,
quickly obscured, by a heavy cloud, as Ruth, after a laughing.
reply, said to her:
"You are battling in secret with a trouble my darling. I .saw
it in your face the moment you entered my door this morning.
Won't you let your true friend share it? Perhaps I can help
you to bear, or counsel you to get rid of it."
"Nobody can help me, Ruth,". she replied, with a despairing
sigh. -"The one to whom I have a right to look turns the cold'
shoulder to me, and systematically opposes me. If I expressed a
wish to have but a crooked pin, that would be a sufficient reason
why it would be denied me. It's true, Ruth, dismally true. I
.may as well give"up trying to be something; I only ask for what,
other girls have forced upon them-schooling and clothes. Look
at me ! am I'a decent figure? 'Look at that shoe," thrusting it
out fiercely, "an4 that blue stocking ! even George made a jest
of it.  My father was a gentleman; do I look like a.gentleman's
daughter ? Chandos has all he wants-money to spend, handsome
clothes, jewels, boats, and guns, and horses, and hardly takds the
trouble to ask for anything-at school all the time. I only ask
to be permitted .to study one year, so that I could be fit to strike
out' a life for myself, and be a burden to nobody. I'd teach if I
had a chance to learn how; but-no, I cannot be spared ; I must
stay put, and fret my days away in paltry detail which I despise.
My father never meant me to lead 'such' a life; he told -me often
and- often, that we would see the world together. If there was
no money I would not complain ; I would take up my lot quietly-;
I think I could'shoulder it cheerfully if my mother would let' me,
but I know there is no lack of means. My father was rich i he
always told meso, and said he was glad for my sake. Mother
gave a hundred dollars last Sunday: to the Bengal mission; 'she
likes to read her name in the Herald; pious ambition, is it not?
I understand that the girls call me, awkward and old-fashioned;
Pauline Bradshaw let it out last Sunday in one of her confi.
dances. How can I be otherwise ? I never had. any playmates; .

don't know how to play.. When the other srun and ,frolic and
dance about with gay faces and bright laughter, I, shrink into a
corner and look ridiculous. My precious brother told me the last
time lie was at home he 'wished he had a sister that wasn't a
cow.' They think because I go away by myself and read all the
chances I.have, that I couldn't enjoy any other life ; but they are
mistaken. There are. times when I long for one girl friend ;
somebody to put her arms around me andswhisper to me, and
smile in my face. I see, such companionship, but none of it is
for me ; I could be.happy as other girls are if shewould let me.
Of course I would rather stay quite alone with the pleasures I
can have, than .sit neglected and forlorn among fortunate ones
who have each a particular friend, and be a mark for ;jokes and
ill-concealed disdain. Oh! why did I not die with my papa?  I
shouldn't think he could be- happy 'in heaven if he knows how
miserable I am. I cannot endure this life-I won't try ! I'll
run away; I'll do something so horribly wicked. that she will tear
her hair for shame, and rue the day I was born."
"Christabel! do you know what you are saying ?" exclaimed
Ruth, drawing away from her in stern displeasure.
"Yes ; there!1 that's just. Now you turn against me and then
my cup will be full!1" exclaimed Chris, burying her face and sob-
bing passionately.
"I won't, dear; I will keep close to you, and live in your heart
if you will let me, and try to help, you. But my own darling,
don't give such wicked thoughts any room,; they are dangerous
guests. Come now let us look this trouble. right in the eye. ; In
the first place, I must tell you how pleased I am that you have
at last, given your dress a place among your must-haves; you
always ignore it so persistently."
Chris glancedconsciously in her friend's face, and colored crim'-
son, and threw a shy look toward the door qf thekeeping-room,
as if coupling the grave young gentleman who was at that, mo-
ment in a brown study, gazing into the coals,;with her new-formed
thought.

92,        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.


WIDOW G~OLDSMITi'S DAUGHTER.

s' How do know'that your mother will' keep you from school?
I thought she :had consented to send you this year."
"She did; but this morning she coolly told me that she could
not afford the expense, and that girls didn't need such a lot of
learning, and Chandos takes all she can spare to get him through
and send him to college, and I'must help in the kitchen 'to save 'a
girl, because she calculates to do her own 'spinning this year;
Semantha Pettengill used to do it, you know; and to render the
dose more bitter she said she meant to make up a lot 'of sheets
and blankets for Chandos out ofthe yarn, against he got married.
She "meant to plague me, Ruth, I know she did, by =telling me so ;
I know she did, she looked so hard.' Not that I care 'in 'the least
how  iuch she does for him, if only I could go to school. But it
is of no use, Ruth; you see yourself 'that the only way for
me is to subside into a patient dish-washing, sweeping machine.
But it don't matter much, only things are not.'fairly divided in
this world; I don't see the justice of it. Why have I got tastes
which I can't gratify, and love for things I can't get hold of, just
'to make me miserable, and my life a weary nothingness. I know
mother's doctrine, 'some vessels to honor and some, to dishonor,'
but that don't.hit the'spot at all. The money is all in the 'keep-
ing of people who 'haven't souls above bread and butter. But let
the world wag. Eat and drink, and sleep, and die. It is a curi-
ous kind of performance to bring people into the world just for
that. But I guess I can stand it ; I don't care."
" Hush, Chris, hush !" said Ruth, eagerly, with a startled face.
"' Drive out those thoughts. We have a dear Friend, and-He
knows just what is g6od 'for us, 'just what discipline we need, and
He will give us just as fast' as we are ready to receive. It is
certainly so, there's no doubt about it. Dear child, -let's you and
I trust Him, and do our best. 'If it is good for you to go to
school there will be a way opened for you, and I believe you will.
go. Your papa believed and trusted ; he 'knew Christ and loved
im; you'have toldimesooften. You nustitry=to trust,:Chris."
"I do try, but oh Ruth, it is so easy for you who areisbgood
to do it ; but for me ! You never have any wrong desires and
horrible wishes."

WIDOW GOLDSMITII'S DAUGHTER.         \    9a
Ruth shrank away and put up her hands deprecatingly. After
a moment's silence .she said in a low voice:
"You know me so little, Chris, dear. I am not worthy that
you should think so well of me ; I am -not, indeed. - I must tell
you a secret. ,E am ambitious ; Ilove grandeur, and sometimes I
rebel at my humble lot-absurd, isn't it? The poor teacher, the
blacksmith's wife, longing for grandeur ! Oh Chris, dear, you
and- I need to pray, ' Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us
from evil."
"You, Ruth !" said Chris, hushing her sob, and gazing in
surprise through her wet lashes. "You! I never'supposed you
had any trials."
"Nor have .I, dear child, any but what. I make for myself by
my foolishness. But come, wipe your eyes, and let us go back.
Otho will wonder what has become of us, and. there's no telling
what mischief Pigeon has finished by this time."
"Oh, Ruth, I can't face that man again. I haven't had time
to wonder yet where you picked hini up. Didn't I make a special
niddy of myself, Ruth? (with a pitiful attempt at a smile). If you
would only be good and fetch my bonnet I could easily drop out
of this window. I can leap like my cat; I only wish I could
hope always to fall on my feet as he does. I wish I could just
blot out the last three hours from the calendar. I want to run
home and shut myself up in my room, if I am permitted to reach
it before being called back to scour up the pot-hooks, polish the
crane, or some other of the useful and necessary jobs that my
mother amuses her leisure by contriving for me; something to
keep my hands in dirty water, which she knows I abhor ; and
everybody says she's such a nice house-keeper. From all these,
Ruthie, and so forth; and she'll poke and pry into all the corners
to try and find something to keep me till pitch dark; .I know she
will; all for my good, she assures me. It's a gay life."
Ruth knew the truthof the picture, and only said:
"I will let yougo, dear. I know I ought to scold you for
your crabbed state of mind. Yau mustn't get to be an habitual
grumbler ; you nmst try to feel right. Your opinion of yourself


96      .    WIDoW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
is of vastly more importance than Otho Groenveldt's of you.
You know where true help comes' from. 'The Lord God will
send his angel with thee and prosper thy way."'
Chris  looked wistfully at her friend a moment; but the bitter-
ness wasstill in her heart, unconquered. As she took her bonnet
from her hands she threw her arms around her neck.
"I must try to bear it as bravely as I can, Ruthie ; that is the
best I can promise.- You are always kind; I thank. you for it.
You are the best and dearest friend I have in the world. You
must :bear with -me. If you should give me up I am afraid I
should go to the bad in earnest. The origin of evil is a curious
question, is it not ?"
Her lips began to quiver and her eyes to fill again. She dash-
ed her hand across them and leaped lightly from the window, and
crept softly away, with bent head, and looks seeking the ground.
Ruth gazed after the drooping figure with a sigh.
"M   -the good Master watch over us both," whispered she, as
she turned away. "He only .knows how sorely we need His
help."

CHAPTER EIGHTH.
TUE DAY AT CRAIGENFELLS.
THE next. day was crisp and cool, and gloriously sunny, and
about ten o'clock, Ruth Blair, accompanied by Otho Groenveldt,
knocked for admission at the widow Goldsmith's door, and that
excellent woman presented herself, attired with her usual prim
precision, her black gown'free from soil or stain, her blue check
apron. still showing its pristine folds, her hair plastered smoothly,
behind her stingy little ears, and the inevitable spit-curl pasted
on either cheek.
Ruth presented her friend, tand bustled 'unceremoniously in,
after her quick fashion; and seating herself on. one. of the
straight-backed chairs which the widow affected for her own re-
pose, she began talking very fast and with great show of business
about the sewing society. She found the widow already fully
enlisted in its behalf. Mrs. Deacon. Williams and Mrs. John
Bisbee had paid her a visit, and laid its interests before her, and
secured her co-operation by naming her as'first directress,:and
they also hinted. that she might invite the Bradshaws and Wal-
singh iins, saying they were cramped for time, and keeping back
the true reason. Though they were of course the first ladies in
Millville, they could not be as familiar as they desired in, the
homes of the gene descente, and they liked better-that the widow
should do the inviting than their journeyman's wife, for. Mrs.
Goldsmith, though an interloper, was by virtue of. her marriage
with the charming artist gentleman, admitted to full communion,
aid Chandy was near and dear friend to. 41 the young folss.


98         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER,

WIDOW GOLDISMIITH'S DAUGHTER.        99

Poor Chris.was nobody's friend; but though.the boys and girls did
ridicule her quaintness and oddities in the merciless manner com-
mon to the genus, there were some among them who did try to
get within the shell which she always kept close shut at their
approach.
In spite of all Ruth's preparatory chit-chat, when she demurely
came to her real errand, viz., a day's release for her friend, the
widow grimly recoiled.
"I don't feel as if I could spare Christabel; she didn't finish
the work I give her yesterday. I don't think best to encourage
girls too much in shiftlessness and - gadding round. I always
mean to keep her to home pretty stiddy."
"I had nothing to do last evening, and I stitched the wristbands
on my Wheeler &amp; Wilson. I only wish there had been more of'
'them. Is not the stitch perfect ?  I intend to trundle the machine
over and help you a day before the shirts are all done."
"They look well enough, but hand-work suits me."
"'Eh, old marplot," (said Ruth, inside;) "just to keep Chris
busy and spoil her eyes."  Outside she, answered, blandly:
"You have taught my 'pretty dear to sew beautifully; every
one speaks about it. I expect _she will outshine us all in the
sewing society, but the rest have not had such training as she
has."
The grim corners of the widow's line of mouth relaxed a trifle
with this mollifying application, and after some more talk, and
sour objections, and several sops from Ruth, the cerberus finally
consented to. let Chris go. Ruth always -made it a point to suc-
ceed with her, and to turn her victories to the child's profit. She
knew thoroughly all the ins and outs of her temper, and had also
won her respect, the widow being forced to own that she was a
"drefful 'capable woman ;" and there were strong points .which
Ruth liked in the widow-her thrift, economy, and business fac-
ulty.
It may seem odd that a person in Ruth's social position should
be hand;and-glove, as she certainly was, with the choice old fam-
ilies. It was .due, we know, to 'her worth, her cultivation, her

lively, pleasant qualities, which, however, do not always secure
to their possessor all they should-when poverty comes,between.
In process of "boarding round" she had gotten within the'veil,-and
was both beloved and respected by the seniors and young folks.
Her husband being a fellow of rare .qualities, was accepted for
his own sake as well as hers, though he had too much independ-
ence to partake largely of hospitalities which he could not recip.
rocate. George Blair was a subject of one of those freaks in
human movings, which rudely jostling and shaking him about,,
had gotten him that rare union spoken of by Pantagruel, "a cer-
tain jollity of spirit pickled in the scorn of fortune:"  He can,
tell his story in his graphic, mirthful fashion so much ;better than
I can, that I will leave it to come from his own mouth.
Ruth meanwhile leaving Qtho to entertain the widow, made
diligent search after Christabel. She found her in the kitchen
standing before a table on which were huddled heaps of turnips,
potatoes, and squashes, which she was preparing for dinner. Her
German copy of " Little Barefoot" lay on a corner of the white
deal, gagged with the carving-knife, but she was not -studying.
Her whole attitude was dejected and spiritless" in the extremes
Her heavy hair was wadded up as usual, and her scanty dress cov.
ered by an old calico apron, upon 'the corner of 'which she wiped
her heavy eyes ; her scarlet lips were feverish and swollen.
"Is it well with thee, dear ?" asked Ruth, coming softly up
behind her, and kissing her: Chris started at the friendly voice,
and quickly dropped one hand to her side-but not soon enough,
for Ruth caught a glimpse of a purple wheal on it which looked
strangely like the trace of a blow.
"What is this, Christabel ?" said she, taking it firmly in her
grasp.
"Oh, nothing worth looking at," said Chris, with a bitter laugh.
4I have got hurt, that's all. You' ask me an odd question, Ruth,
as if it could be well with me. But I've done, now,' she went
on, throwing back her head and setting het'.teeth; "she shall
never have a chance to wound me so' again.


100        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGH TER.

"Why, dear child, what has happened ?  Do you mind telling
me?   Don't speak if you think you ought not."
" There is no ought about it; I shall tell you, of course. My
life is no'secret from you; my pitiful disappointments will be no
news to you. After.I left you yesterday,. I don't know what pos-
sessed me, but I went straight to my mother, and argued with
her,.and begged and prayed her toilet me go to school. I spoke
of papa; Lam glad"for her sake that you did' not hear how she
answered me; -she was-very angry, perfectly enraged, in fact,
and said cruel things which were hard to bear in silence, and I
am, afraid I replied something, (she glanced down at her wounded
hand.)  But I won't go into details ; my hopes are dead. I will
never breathe any wish of mine to her again.- You see I've got
my, German here ; I've tried to read, but I can't put any heart into
it.- Ruth!" she exclaimed in an excited voice, quite different to
the tone- she dropped, "I feel desperate. I don't know how to
settle it with myself and bear it-I really don't."
"Just put the whole out of your thoughts, dear, at least for
to-day. .Something assures me that it will all work right yet-
I'm certain of it. I have come to invite you to make a cll with
me."
"A call.!" repeated Chris, in .scornful surprise. "I look like
it, don't I? shall I appear in this charming costume? No, Ruth,
don't make fun of me; my place is here among the pots and ket-_
tles, and here I must abide, where there is no one to putt me out
of countenance."
"I did not mean a call, precisely-say a visit. I nriust have
you to go up to Craigenfells to-day."
"'To Craigenfells-!" echoed - Chris, a strange gleam of joy flit-
ting over her stormy face. " I haven't seen the old place since I
went fishing there with- papa; I used to know every stick and
stone of it in those days. Uncle Alec was so good to me, he
showed me the;: pictures in the top- gallery, and gave me a heap
ofJapan shells, and :papa made a funny story to them. And
Deborah cooked tartlets because I said I liked to see her do it,

WIDOW- GOLDSMIThi'S DAUGHTER.            101
and we had them in the mandarin china at supper. How pleas-
ant it allwas. Ah ! Ruth, I lived then."
" Well, dear, you shall renew the acquaintance, and have a-gay
day of it. You begin to look alive even now.. There, don't shut
your face down again like a mask ; I've a bit of news in reserve,
I kept as a bonne bouche. Bertha Groenveldt is there ! You
wish for a girl friend ; I've a choice one to offer you, a- sweet,
dear, good child she is, and just the double you need."
"Did my mother consent to my going? She told me last eight
with some pretty affectionate speeches, that she would have no
more gadding."
Ruth was pained at. Chris's face, while she asked the question,'.
but replied quietly :
"Your mother .has consented to the expedition, Chris-we
won't call it gadding-so don't waste the precious moments. The
day won't be too long for us-hurry up stairs. I shall preside at
your toilette."
'Chris dropped the potato she was peeling, and dar-ted toward
the door.
"Not that way, dear," exclaimed Ruth, stopping her; "let us
go up the back stairs, please."
"But Ruth," said Chris, doubtfully, her face falling 'again,
"your friend has proper clothes and ornaments, and knows how
to behave, and what to say. I shall feel awkward and ashamed;
no, Ruth, I had rather not go. I thank you very much 'but gou
know I've only that old satin to wear; mother had it when she
was married ; I look as if I had been dug up in it. No, let me
stay at home, please ; I'm. better here ; I am not all the while
painfully reminded of my deficiencies. I'll fall back on my Pen-
ny Magazines and Rainbow, and try to be satisfied." " Her voice
faltered and her lips trembled.
"Nonsense, child !" said Ruth. "I'm not going to all the
trouble I've taken to get your mother's consent, to have you sift
through in this way; come up directly."  She took her firmly by
the arm, and they mounted the stairs together.


102        WIDOW GOLDSMITHS DAUGHTER.

"Do you take into your consciousness, my, dear, the fact. that
we are to have the pleasure of a drive as a first course to our
day?"
"tDrive! why Ruth, aren't you afraid of those livery horses ?
They bite, and kick, and baulk, and all sorts of things." -
" Trust yourself to me, dear," laughed Ruth, helping Chris to
disrobe.,
"Oh, yes, Ruthie; you'll let me drive part of the way, won't
you? -I could do it once, and ride, too; papa said I was a famous
horsewoman. How delightfully nice ! Do you remember poor
Katy Mellon, and how the Irish horse turned his eye -at her ?"
"Yes, dear; and apropos to her, I know that there is a box of
new books up at Craigenfells; 'George took them out of the ex-
press office this morning, and you shall look them over."
" Ruthie, you are my good angel. I really am going to be
happy this day. It shall be a white day; my soul and I are at
peace."
Ruth- smiled at her earnestness. "Look, what I have brought
you."
She unfolded a package containing a neatly tucked white mus-
lin apron, with a-dainty frill around it, and natty little pockets,
and also some fluted ruffles.
" There!".said she, triumphantly ; "a. that I did after Pigeon,
went to sleep last, night. Heaven blues Wheeler &amp; Wilson!
Just hand down that sober robe of yours, and I'll try if I can't
trim a bit of youth into it. If I only had a piece of scarlet rib-
bon to make a knot of, but I couldn't compass that,, hunt I ever
so much."
S "What will mother say ?  She don't approve of ruffles."
",I have no time to inquire, my dear, and therefore I can't in-
form you. Now your own line of conduct is plain. You are to
put away all your silly shyness, 'and aot like other girls'; I know
you can if you only think so-you are gay enough with me. I
intend to abe very proud of you to-day; Bertha is a good sensible
girl, and you will be sure to like her, It is time for you to come
out of your shell and do me justice; and Chris, you must do

WIDOW GPLDSMIT'S DAUGHTER.              103
honor to your papa. I have often written. to Bertha of you,
therefore behave your prettiest."
I'll try, Ruth, I will indeed," answered. Chris, kissing; her
friend gratefully... "You won't expect me to talk very much, will
you ? I never can think of anything to say, and when I do talk
the girls look at me so."
"Suit yourself, dear-I can trust you."
"Oh Ruth, do let us hurry and get off before mother thinks of
something to keep me at home. I wonder she .hasn't called me
before this."
"She is quite safe at present," said. Ruth, smiling to herself,
and thinking in how competent a warde's charge sewas. "You
should sometimes curl your hair, Chris."  Ruth threw the- dress
into which she had sewed the ruffles, on to the bed, and dusted
her hands together. She had her own reasons for wishing her
favorite to look her best. " Here, let me do it for you; I'm a
famous hair-dresser ; I shall have a, barber-ous department at-
tached to my cooking college."  She took up a hair-brush to
commence, but Chris started back.
"I dare not," said she, in a low voice, all the color forsaking
her cheeks. " I haven't, these- three years;. mother does not
like it."
Uttering a private philippic upon dame Goldsmith's straight-
laced notions, Ruth tried to push away her hands, but she shrank
back so beseechingly, and looked so miserable, that she desisted,
perceiving that she had deep reasons for her refusal, and said
pleasantly:
"Oh well, dear, since you won't have curls, let me make you a
knot a la Sappho."
Deftly, with her nimble 'fingers,, she twisted the billowy mass
into a.rare form, and fastened it firmly, suffering two or three
stray curls to ripple over the whole in a style which would have
delighted Roffe in the depth of his artist soul,
" What lovely hair!" said she, with true womanly admiration.
" I declare Chris, you- do remind me of ' pure, sweetly smiling
Sappho' You have just the poise of head, and the contour that


WIDOWS GOLDSMmIT'S: DAUGHTER.'

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

Bartholomew gave, his charming creation-(poor fellow, what a
pity he left his work so early)-but I don't believe you would.
ever take the Leucadean leap for a faithless Pharon. There
now, you will do," she finished off with a few little pats and ca-
ressing touches. "I must acknowledge to a natural liking for allt
sorts of costuming and hair-dressing; now' on with the dress, and
a very tidy, comfortable  dreis it -is, not by any means to be de-
spised; and our cue is to rise above our gear and adorn it with
pleasant'behavior."
It was the old black satin, thick as a board, scanty in the skirt,
plain in the 'sleeves, tight across the waist, when everybody' else
was -enveloped in voluminous drapery. Not a particle of trim-
ming of any sort, not even a fold ; but Ruth's little ruffles relieved
it, and her jaunty muslin apron quite set it off. Chris stared into;
her mirror in whimsical astonishment.
"Oh 'Ruthie, how funny I do look ! I ought to pinch myself
to make sure  I haven't stepped out of a frame. I'm as much
puzzled as the old woman was who went to sleep upon the king's
highway; mother threw lMother Goose into the fire, I remember,.
and I cried bitter tears over the sad loss, but I was a wee child
then. I've a cat at home and she knows me; come here, Rain-
bow. Am I? or am I not ?    That is the question. All right;
you've settled that point,- old fellow; just one jump now--phit!
over you go, good Rainbow. Look here at my ruffles; you never
saw the like on your mistress before, did you ? and my funny
little apron. What do you think of; that, my cat?  Don't I look
as if I had been buried one hundred years ago, atat fifteen, and
disinterred this morning to point a moral and adorn a tale of fash-
ionable-n utation1?" Seeing a little shade of disappointment in
her friend's-face, or fancying that she saiw it, she threw her arms
around her' neck.
"iDon't mind my fun, Ruth ; it is little enough I have of it. I
am grateful to you. I don't know. how I shall ever repay what
you do for 'me. You bring me all the sunshine I see."
"Yes, dear, but there's a hook off the bottom and an eye off'
the top," -replied Ruth, screwing her mouth' out of all shape in
vain endeavor to bring the garment to terms.

"I suppose so, there frequently is; but you can pin'it up -some-
how,' nobody will mind ; make it do for now."
"But you ought- to -look over your .dresses, art l sew-on the
hooks. It isn't lady-like to go about pinned together-and sup-
pose you should sneeze?"
" How can I. sew them?" answered Chris, petulantly., "Such
odds and ends of time as I have. When. should I ever study
any if I spent it all in fixing old duds, that are worthless anyhow.
I can't do it. I must have a chance for my life ; it isn't fair."
"Never mind, dear; I have it fastened now," replied Ruth,
not liking to stir up the troubled currentof 'her thoughts."
All dressed except her gloves and handkerchief, Chris opened,
her bureau and began to rummage for them, stirring up the disor-
derly' contents, and huddling them together, making confusion
worse confounded.
Ruth forbore to offer any remark, but she' bit her 'lip to keep'
down a smile as she watched the process. Silks all raveled, balls
of cotton turned and 'twisted about the small articles, so 'that
when she lifted one,- the whole "rose en masse. Hooks and ey s,
pins, and a thousand strings bound and fastened the conglome, a-
tion.
" Oh dear !" exclaimed Chris impatiently ; "where are rhy
gloves ? I never can find anything. Oh, here's one-no, that's
the old holiest one-well, never mind, I'll keep my.hands -in my
muff; but I've got, to have a handkerchief. Oh, I remember I
didn't wash them Saturday, but here's one of Chandos's, luckily ;
I finished marking it yesterday. Isn't that a pretty monogram?
I designed it myself; I've a dozen to do, and I shall put the next
into a wreath of pansies."
"-Beautiful'! ";said Ruth, examining. the delicate embroidery.
" It looks like a labor of love."
"I enjoyed 'making the design, and' liked the working, but it
was not a labor of love," replied Chris, truthfully., "I've no rea-
son to dote upon Chandos.
Ruth glanced -from the cluster of snow-bells and star-flowers
so fancifully grouped, into the tossed drawer, and said, rather hes

0

104

105


16         wIDow GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"Don't you sometimes lay over your belongings, fold them,
and that, you know ?"
"iNot often, I don't have any time ; and where's the use? No-
body ever sees them."
But you would enjoy your wearables sb much more."
"Enjoy! -What is there among that trash to enjoy ?  Perhaps
if I had plenty of pretty garments, I might, yes, I am sure I
should."
"Don't your mother ever come up here ?"
",Yes, once in a while ; but she has got to scold just so much,
and it don't matter what the topic is. She finds sermons -in
stones, and bad in everything I do. I'm getting a perfect duck's
back ;facility for shedding scolding. They are mighty few pleas-
ant words that I ever get. Oh, there are my gloves now, under
the bed. They must have gone down behind when I left them
on the pillow after meeting,,Sunday. I would take a couple sof
stitches in this thumb if I had a needle threaded. I believe
when .I get home I'll mend them all up; if I have a good day I
truly will, Ruth. Don't look so grieved ; it makes .me feel a
horrible reprobate. If I could always have you by me life would
go easy. Now look here," she broke out afresh, planting herself
against the door, as if determined-never to remove.
" Well, what now ? It needs a nimble fancy to follow your
moods. They flit and flash over .your face like sun-chased shad-
ows."
"This is what now. Where's that tall Mr. Groenveldt?  Will
he be up at Craigenfells ?"
"I think it quite possible he may, but you need not trouble
yourself about him; he won't disturb your maiden meditations.
I thought I had  told you he is a medical man, a very close stu-
dent, digging among dry bones, he says."
""Well, I fervently hope he will remain in the valley till they
all come to life, a great army.'"
Chris laughed, and offered her shoulders for the mantle Ruth was
holding up to her, and buttoned on her fur cap. The two were
of. the finest, rarest sable,.purchased for her by her papa just.be.

fore his death. - He laughingly said, "as they are to last till we
go to Russia for a new set, they must be woman's size.". Mrs.
Goldsmith- was furious about it, and had often threatened to sell
them, but somehow the deep look which would come into Chris's'
eyes, hadn't let her do it yet. It made her feel as if Fred were
gazing at her, and strangely enough there were odd times when
that feeling mde her tremble-,-but she did not love her daughter
any better.
"Ready at last !" said Chris, running swiftly down the stairs.
Perhaps the noise of rushing footsteps, moved Mr. Otho to open
the door; at any rate, there he stood, ready to receive the tardy
people with a pleasant smile.
When Chris found herself face to face with this man, whose
remembered looks were stings to wound her self-love, she drew
bick, blushing scarlet, and would have dashed away like a fright-
ened deer, but Ruth blocked the wry, and Mr. Groenveldt put
out his hand, saying gravely, and apparently oblivious of her
trouble:
" We began to think you had flown out of the window, you
were so long in coming. I know you have a. preference for that
mode of egress, Miss Goldsmith; doors are too common place for
your airy departures."
So there was nothing for it but to put her hand in his, though,
she could not find a single word of reply to his speech. Before
she absolutely realized where she was, they had taken leave Of the
Widow, and were all walking down the long avenue together. She
glanced shyly at him, wondering how much of her stormy petu-
lance he remembered, and what he thought of it ; and reddened
up again as she did at every fresh recall of the scene.
Old Thomas was driving in the light phaeton up and down,
and at a turn he saw the figures approaching, and pulled the gay
horses into a quick trot, handling them with the pride of a true
horse-lover ; and he took off his cap and .looked at Chris with
fatherly fondness, admiring her height, and praising her good
looks, as she held out both hands to him. When Mr. Groenveldt,
after handing in Ruth and Pigeon, placed her carefully by his

WIDOW                   'L,1 J t "  107
'  T LLW GOLDSMITH ' S T YAI a


108      WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"N-DOW GOLDSiITH'S DAUGHTER.     109

side, the hearty fellow drew the back of his hand across his eyes
as he walked away.
"Just the age of my own Bessie,", said he, and sighed.
After they started, Mr. Groenveldt scarcely looked --at Chris ;
indeed, he seemed nearly forgetful of her presence. He leaned-
back occasionally, talking to: Ruth, and thus got a full look into
her downcast face. She was following the rapid roll of, the
wheels with averted eyes, and thinking what rare power and
sweetness there was in his voice, and studying the firm, masterful
way in which he managed the horses, an accomplishment for
which she felt special admiration. Finding that he manifested no
intention of making her talk, she felt quite. at ease, and glanced
about the pretty sights of "field and fallow" which flitted swiftly
past them, and her lips parted in an amused smile at the droll
things he so gravely said to Pigeon and Pigeon's mama; but
between whiles.she caught herself thinking, as she threw shy
looks at him, how stern a judge he would be of any who should
go wrong or offend him.
Her character-study was brought to a sudden stop, or rather
turned into a fresh channel, by a freak of the horses, who took
umbrage at the impudent phiz and twirl of a windmill in full
revolution, already excited as they were by the gay pace they
had been holding, and the clear,' crisp air. With her hands firmly
clasping the rail, she watched. their struggles for their own way,
and their forced yielding to the will of the master who held them
firmly in hand ; she noted the flash in his black eyes, and the
slight compression of his lips, which relaxed into a satisfied smile
as he forcedthem to pass and repass the object of their dread at
a quiet pace, but with swelling nostrils and vibrating ears. She
did not turn away, or tremble, or scream, and looked confidently
in his face, her cheeks 'glowing, and her eyes flashing, and laughed
lightly. He: glanced at her with an answering smile.
" They pull terribly," said he, chafing his gloved hands.
" You pulled them terribly, I think, sir. Poor fellows ! they've
got their lesson."

"Unconditional submission," said Ruth. "Nothing less would
suit ou, Otho. Will you rule your wife by the strong hand, as
you do your horses?
" What do you think, Miss Goldsmith," said he, answering her
mischievous look with a half smile. "Would I ?"
"You love power, and have no objection to implicit obedience,"
she replied, quietly ; " although you do tilt at windmills."
His eyes kindled in covert enjoyment of the unexpected retort.
"You mean to imply that I ani a knight of a rueful counte-
nance. You should not indulge in home-thrusts of that sort until
you can teach your face not.to' point the allusion."
"Oh no, sir ; I'm sure I meant nothing so sagcy. I know my
rules of politeness better. I've read the whole sixteen books,
and besides Ruth can tell you that I'm on my best behavior to-
day."
"Ah, that is charming to hear; and yesterday ! may I inquire
if that is your usual mode of leaving the dining-room ? A mere
business inquiry, I assure you, Miss Goldsmith, as guardian of
Uncle Alec's household stuff."
She blushed up scarlet, and flashed a bright look at him; he
was quite grave, and politely listening for her reply.
"Now don't, sir, if you please ; let the (lead past bury its dead.
I don't need any such goads to whip me out of my folly. If you
had failed having your own way just now you couldn't be more
chagrined than I am in remembering my yesterday's behavior.
Please drop the topic and speak of something amusing."
Ruth laughed heartily, and Otho, bowing, obeyed her hint, and
led the talk into themes she loved. She felt quite at home with
him now, and in the happiest of humors, her face all unlocked,
pretty thoughts adorning it, lighting it up like sunbeams.
He touched quaintly and wittily upon subjects they had both a
love for-books, music, and foreign lands. She gave him fact
for fact, fancy for fancy : not knowing how,'they. got away ariong
the palmers, and troubadours, and harpers, and Ruth and Chris
listened to. his recital of the " Hermit of Warknerth," and were


110          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
still following out the romance in their thoughts, when he sud-
denly said :
"Poor Aymerigot Marcel had a sad fate, Miss Goldsmith."
"He ,had, indeed," she. replied, as if she were speaking of a
victim of the last railroad accident, "I scarcely think he merited
such a finishing. . That cutting people into quarters and nailing'
them up at gate-posts was a hideous mode of disposing of them.
Bulwer -says the worst use you can put a man to is to hang him.
It seems that old Provost of the Chatelet thought otherwise, as
well as our own more enlightened legislators. Poor Aymerigot!
he must have been a merry, rollicking fellow, and kind and gen-
erous, too, after the fashion of the times.. He out-witted old Gi-
rardon very neatly, and he and his merry men made fun of him,
but they kept their word not to hurt him, and I was very glad
when that cruel old Geoffrey Tete Noir got his reward. He who
held all men so cheap, and worked his wicked will in Ventadour.
I can fancy young Aymerigot when he made the excursion, with
his twelve gay companions; how they rode along, jesting and
laughing ; stout, brave men, on their- great black horses, which
tossed their glossy manes and shook their 'ringing head-gear, and
Aymerigot gayest and handsomest of  them all. His wife shades
her face with her hand, as they wind across the draw-bridge, and
waves her white scarf from the battlements; her maidens look
also, with their embroidery in their hands; they have risen,
hastily summoned by the clang of the lifting portcullis, and the
trumpet-call to horse, and the young knights and the Bannerets
glance up at them and catch the farewells from their bright eyes.
Their tearful mistress is too much absorbed in her grief, and her
eyes too dim and blurred. to heed them. A castle rises before
them; the porter keeping watch and ward. They make a thought-
less wager, and the 'young and frisky knight,' who shot admirably
well with the cross-bow, just picked him off, because he could, to
show his skill, and so they got into the castle, and they found the
poor warden's wife quite wild with grief, and they spoke softly to-
her, and the frisky sharp-shooter was bitterly sorry; and then
they got the keys of the dungeons and set all the prisoners free,

WIDOW GOLD$MITU   . DAUGHTER.    ,111

and let the widow take all her own and great gifts besides ; and
it says that when he took a royal castle he gave back a thousand
crowns of his share for love of the king's children. It should be
a rare sight to see such proud riders, with banners flying, and
maybe pretty ladies in the train, with hawks on their wrists. I
should like-"
Chris stopped suddenly. A violent spring -of the horses, and
Otho's impatient expostulation with them, brought her back from
the middle ages. The ring of the hoofs, and the clang of mar-
tial music died out of her ears, and the brilliant show of coiffured
ladies and their armed knights faded from her vision. She passed
her hand hastily across her forehead and threw a shame-faced
side look at her neighbor, and met his eyes. 'He was studying
her with a most amused smile.    She could have bitten her
tongue with vexation, and blushed exceedingly when she saw
that in her hasty embarrassed hand-motion she had displayed her.
ragged finger-ends which she had been keeping so carefully hid-
den in her muff. She plunged them in again and clasped them
there, and secretly resolved to mend them in her first spare Ino-
ment. Mr. Groenveldt's brown dog-skins were perfect, his fur-
trimmed overcoat just what it should be, his linen spotless, and
all without pretension. Chandy's daintiness aggravated her ; she
called it dandyism; but this gentleman-like perfection pleased
her taste, and she fidgeted under an evanescent desire to look her
best, and the soupcon of a resolve to give heed to her appearance,
flitted through her mind.
When they reached the Craigenfells, Bertha Groenveldt stood
in the great hall-door, impatiently expecting them. She was a
bright, pleasant-looking girl, about sixteen, and neither too old nor
too young for her years. . Neatly dressed in purple velour and
linen collar. Her abundant black hair in thick braids'and fast-,
ened with an ivory comb, pretty ear-rings and pin of the same
material, of delicate frost.work cutting and the purest whiteness
for ornaments. - Short and plump in figure, not nearly so tall as
our Chris; 'pretty little hands, whose rosy nails were :cut and
trimmed with perfect neatness. Every plait and fold about her


112         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

in proper shape ; she had a spotless little trifle of a handkerchief
with a colored monogram in one corner, bound about her face.
She was a martyr to what she called tooth-ache, the doctor said
.it was over-study, and as 'all her teeth were clean and sound, it
probably was so. She made an eager motion with her out-spread
arms, and flew down the steps, scolding Otho (Chris wondered.
how she dared) for his tardy coming, to which he gravely replied
by desiring her to go out of the wind directly. She instantly
obeyed him, and' stood quietly till Ruth bustled in and caught her
in her arms. When presented to Christabel, she turned her
bright eyes, still floating in tears, and kissed her on both cheeks,'
saying:
" I know you quite well already, Miss Goldsmith; I hope you
will be my friend."
She seemed to find nothing odd or ridiculous in the quaint
black satin of stiff cut, but offered hoer ready aid in getting off
their wraps, and then led the way to the drawing room with
a springing, easy step, chatting and laughing all the time with:
perfect self-possession. Chris took a fit of terrible shy awkward-
ness while she followed her pliant motions, such happy unconscious-
ness of her own personality ! and she wished she could only walk
about like that, and, talk as smoothly, and she felt sure Bertha
must be secretly thinking how ungainly and  tall she was, and she
shut up her shell and was heartily sorry she had come. When
she tried to answer Bertha's pleasant, trifling speeches, she stam-
mered, and made such a piece of work, that Miss Groenveldt look-
ed astonished in spite of her good breeding, and feeling sorry for
her, she turned away and took up Pigeon and began to coax him
with her' watch. He-kept his little fists doubled and his, eyes
wide open, but exceeding doubtful, and finally made up his mind,
to cry, let what would come of-it, and twisted about and stretched
out his arms to Chris with a pitiful lip.;
"No, no, sir; -we two have got to be friends. .Don't you inter-
fere, Ruth ; I always make it a point to subdue babies, and have
my own way with them, if I can't with my big brother. You are_
not to 'look to Miss Goldsmith, sir, for protection; all your help

WIDOW- GOLDSMITXI'$ DAUGlElR.           113
and comfort are centered in me for the present. Now com on,
and I'll show yoursome pictures. Here's a gorgeous butterfly-
he's come to the ball-I thought we should think better of it-'
and here's a grasshopper, he's come to the feast. Now kiss me-
thank you."
These two girls were perfect 'examples Qf the two opposite
modes "of training. Chris, conscious of powers she had not
learned to use, and which it was her mother's hobby to flout at,
and undervalue, was constrained, awkward, and: angular ; her
rich inner life was hidden, choked up. She was really the more
gifted girl of the two; Bertha had been allowed to talk, and
could express her ideas, such as they were, fearlessly. Her
mother was her companion and friend, as well as her careful
teacher. 'Sedulously trained in all conventional forms, she could
walk fearlessly across a room filled with strangers without hitch-
ing her shoulders or fidgeting with her hands; she could say what
she wished 'without contortions, wriggling,; trotting her feet, or
twisting her hair, which poor Chris was always doing when she
attempted to open her mouth. Bertha was not afraid simply be-
cause she was beloved and supported by her elders at home, and
was accustomed to have all her little speeches well received, even
if they were not epigrammatic or brilliant, and also to getting kind,
indulgent glances and pleasant replies, which helped her out and
made her happy.          -
Poor Chris, reared on snubbings and snappings, and sharp con-
tradictions, had never gotten used to the diet, nor to Chandy's
merciless ridicule and unsparing criticism; so she mostly folded
her life within itself. Other people thought of her as George
Blair had done-quiet, sober, spiritless, duty-loving, growing up
to be stamped with her mother's image and superscription. - And
a moderate earthquake wouldn't have startled that worthy black-
smith so much as Miss Chris did, when she flared up and bade
him mind his own business.
Otho Groenveldt only remained a minute in the drawing-room.
He was superintending the unpacking of some Mexican curiosi-
ties which had come up for the cabinet, and Mrs. Blair wisely


114        WIDOW GOLD8BU T1I'S DAUGU R~*.

thought that Chris would, soonest thaw out if left alone with Ber-
tha, and she started off to get some new recipes from Deborah,
whose cooking was of the very choicest. ,A great card of Span-
ish bun had been.. sent down to the Horse Shoe only the week
before, and as George admired the "careless method ".withkwhich
the cinnamon. and Zantes were adjusted, Ruthie determined to
produce some next baking day, and -was immediately busy with.
pencil and paper at the end of Deborah's long white table, listen;
ing' and writing.
Bertha pursued, perseveringly her acquaintance with Pigeon,
though he looked fearfully at her from time to time, with his :little
lip made up ; and Chris :shrank away to a seat in the deep win-
dow, and siezed an open volume lying there on the top of a.
zephyr dog with one steel eye 'and the other uncreated. Her
eyes lighted pleasantly as she glanced at the tinted page, and her
mouth curved into a smile. It was. " Bitter-Sweet," and she not
very politely went on reading, with bent head, turning page after
page, forgetting everything. She was recalled by Pigeon, who
had toddled up to her, and was pulling her dress and trying to
climb into her lap. Bertha said, smiling:
" Take him up, Miss Goldsmith ; he has shown himself a brave
little fellow.. Ah ! you like my book," she added, coming forward
and resting her hand familiarly on Chris's shoulder. ".So do I;
I love stories, and some poetry, 'The Lady of the Lake,' and
those-not much history. I can read Arctic voyages and travel
books pretty well; I liked Prescott's- 'Isabella,' and Irving's
' Washington,' but I couldn't stand Macauley. I tried Motley's
' Dutch Republic,' and the ' Netherlands' because mama wished
me, but the horrible tortures made me sick, and I left off; Mama
does not permit much miscellaneous reading in term-time, and
I've'had to study so hard ; still we had jolly evenings last winter.
Papa and mama.and Miss Filer read Shakspeare with me. Papa
is so funny in the comic parts; you should see him do 'Puck,'
and "Dogberry,' and that ridiculous fellew who 'cross-gartered his
stockings. What was his name ?"

WIDOW GOLD S1M!fH' D'AUGIT Enhi11.
"Malvolo," suggested, Chris, hritly, shuffling her 'feet, and
blushing in the intense effort'it cost to produce the word.
"Oh, yes; you know, Shakspeare-of course you do; sRuth
says you know everything. Prof. Noble would like me to be a.
book-worm, I think, but mama says I must be a 'round charac-
ter.'"  Chris laughed a little.
"Pot-hooks and hangers are specialties in our house," said
she.
Bertha did not. hear the odd rejoinder ; she had turned toward
the book-cases.
"Uncle Alec has got a splendid copy of Shakspeare, full of
pictures. I love picture-books, don't you ?"
Chris buried her fingers among Pigeon's bits of curls, while
she said:
" I think of pictures, illustrations,, I mean, such as the Cruik-
shanks did for Dickens and Thackeray did, for himself, as Tony
thought about the insides of his letters-' the cream of the core
respondence,' he said. I consider good, clear, graphic pictures the
cream of books."
" Tony ! Who is Tony ?" said Bertha, from the . top of the
library ladder, reaching after the great Shakspeare.
Odd as it may seem, this bit of ignorance, so naturally and
fearlessly displayed, did'wonders in setting shy Chris at her ease.
She knew something which 'pretty lady Bertha knew not, and she
felt it no crime to be ignorant, and dared to ask questions. But
you see Otho had not made a butt of his sister, as thoughtless
Chandos was accustomed to do of poor Chris, ridiculing her short-
comings, finding much mirth in her bhnders. Well, she under-
took to relate the tale of ludicrous mistakes, at Miss- Groenveldt's
urgent request, and she stammered and stuttered fearfully, fill she
got interested, then she sketched away in so fearles'a  style as
brought Tony and his friends before her listener, who' turned about
with the great volume in-her hands, and seated herself on the top
of the steps, with her arms crossed on her lap, and heard it out, and
laughed heartily, and then the two got into the deep window, and I
am afraid Bertha sat tailor-fashioi, a foible for which she got fre-


116           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
quent reproof from her mama and' Miss Filer, and always re-
plied.
" But it is so nice and comfortable, do just let me this once ;"
and generally got leave, though Filer would mutter:
"Bandy legs and crooked toes," "tailors and Turks," and such
like, before she gave in, considering her duty discharged.
When Ruth returned to the drawing-room she heard their gay
voices, and saw their faces close together over the page, and she
paused at the door, smiling to herself. It was so precisely what
she wished, and when she joined their laughter, Bertha raised
her head and exclaimed, giving Chris's waist a caressing little
squeeze :
"Oh, Ruth, we are having such a nice time ! My face doesn't
ache in the least. I love Miss Goldsmith ; she's exceedingly
nice, not to say frisky ; (luckyfor me that Miss Filer is out of
ear-shot, or I'd get a lecture.on by-words.)  It was good of you
to bring me a new friend."
" Oh yes," replied Mrs. Blair, expansively. "I felt sure I was
right, and I am very glad; she will be good for you; you need
just such a book-lover to spur you on, and it will suit Chris to
have a companion like my faultless lady Bertha. Therefore I
advise you to make the most of your moments, and cultivate.
each other assiduously."
"It shall not be my fault," said Bertha, warmly, "if we are
not life-long friends. I was fully prepared to admire Miss Gold-
smith's-acquirements, you know, before I caine to speech of her."
"Somebody has been kind, it appears," replied Chris, coloring
up and laughing; then she flashed out, ."You hear Ruth, she
calls me Chris.  Do you not like that better than Miss Gold-
smith ?"
" Dear Chris, you are just as sweet as you can be and live,"
said Bertha, kissing her.
" But I have only made acquaintance with Miss Goldsmith,"
said Otho, from the door-way, bowing low. "Pray present me
to dear Chris."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       117

" No sir," replied..Bertha, merrily. "This is my friend; I am
already in the inner chamber of her heart. - You may stand re-
tfully in the door-way, and be thankful for any small crumbs
of kindness I can spare you."
"But," pursued Otho, with one of his grave half-smiles, "I
wish also to come in among the chosen few who are privileged
to say 'Chris.' I am of opinion that.no less will content me."
" Those who ask much receive much. See, Chris, does not my
brother look proud in his character of beggar."
" How is it to be, Miss- Goldsmith; shall I venture in among
the few ?"
Chris looked up at him, so - grave and quiet, and felt without
analyzing the consciousness, that even the few must stand aside
where he chose to be somewhat; and she answered, with bent
head and in a low serious voice:
"I am such a novice in making friendships, sir. Friend seems to
me so sacred a name ; I could not bestow it lightly upon a chance
acquaintance. I could not find one of a morning under an old
tree, as one finds mushrooms."
Just then George's hearty voice sounded in the hall, and Ruth
carried Bertha off for presentation to the Giant Great Heart who
had appropriated her little teacher.
"I am still standing in the door-way," said Otho, when they
were alone, " waiting permission to enter. Your last remark
sounds inhospitable ; but I hope you will think better of it."
".Come in, sir," replied Chris, raising her eyes in secret trouble,
both giving greater meaning to the talk than appeared onsthe
surface. "I believe you can be a very good and true. friend; I
thought so the first day I saw you."
" You shall find me a kind and discriminating one, Chris," said
he, advancing and offering his hand, and answering her question-
ing glance with a grave, serious look into her eyes. "Bertha says
I am fond of commanding where I should' entreat. At all events
I like to be trusted."
" I intend to trust you, sir,". she.-answered giving 'her hand,
frankly. "Look, now, am I not 'a lucky girl? I-hake got=two


11 $      -WIDOW GOLDSMITR's DAUOfTER.

new friends today; I had two before, and one of them was my
faithful cat; four is a pretty :number."
"Let us shake hands upon it, Chris," he replied,. in a toneof
quiet satisfaction, and woe to the first one who breaks our com-
pact. Friends found must be life treasures, carefully regarded,
not worn, like a glove, to be put off with any caprice. Friends
have privileges; I shall claim all rmine. Come with me, now, let
us see. what Thomas has to .show us of rich and rare in his con--
-servatories. I will wager some of the dry bones which 'are to
achieve fame:for me, that my friend Chris loves flowers, and can
call them by their names ; she knows all the wild-wood beauties,
and such as disport themselves by the water brooks. It may be
that Thomas can present her to some strangers; Uncle.Alec is'
fond of transplanting his Mexican pets."
Chris felt a little flutter of hurry. She and her papa had used
to be gay in the green-house, and as chatty as finches. Otho
opened the glass door and led the way, and she ,stood once more
among her old lovers. There were the cape flowers, and the
Australian vines, the japonicas and roses; the sweet air of the
place, heavy with perfumes, was so familiar to her ; the.azalias in
gorgeous flower, the primroses, the great pomegranates, flaming
with vivid scarlet, the goat's-foot oxalis, 'whose odor was like a
poem to =her, so. 'penetrating and -tender-all memories of her
precious childhood.
" This is an odd fellow," said Otho,.pausing beside a spike of
yellow blossoms ; "we must get Thomas to name him for us.'"
"He is called tritoma," answered Chris, smiling.
"Ah, and what is this, and this, and this ?" touching gently a
group of broad-leaved neighbors, which sparkled in the spray of
the fountain.
"Those are all mound plants. They will not be permitted to
inhabit here long : coleas, and begonias, and canned and those must
soon be planted out. Papa used to call those red things chemical
catmint; see, the leaves are the same in shape and as.coarsely
veined  OhI",she :exclaimed eagerly, "here are some wind-
-lowers, how 'blue. they are, like the sky; 'and my bead-tree I so'

WIDOW GOLDS$MIT'S DAUGHTER.       119

lovely sweet when the July sun kisses it; 'and bean-capers, oh
dear ! and daphnes, and here is the fraxinella that papa lighted
one evening, and it showed a clear, soft flame like a halo all
around its great purple clusters-"--and do look! a hermerocallis!
prettier and sweeter than a wax lily."
She went flitting about among her favorites, -touching them
softly, bending among them with wrapt, smiling face, and whis-
pering to them, quite forgetful of her quiet ;companion, whiy per-
mitted her to enjoy what he saw was a rare pleasure, unmolested.
Some of the plants inhabited the scalloped pots, which she 'had
helped her father to move and water,-and she caressed them with
her fingers, and paused, musing, her eyes fixed upon them, but
her thoughts in the past. Her father in his smoking-cap his
slender hands and pure, sculptured face, his kind, kind ways, his
quaint stories, 'making his flowerapets live and' love for her pleas-
ure. She laughed aloud, and thus dissolving the charm, she
glanced up 'in. haste. -Otho it was who was by her side, who
touched her with his garments; and the anemones were but wind-
flowers.
'Thomas came along with a 'great knife in -his hand; he had,
been cutting his pelargoniums.
"Ah, Miss Christabel," said herhis honest face kindling at sight
of her ; "you are a great stranger here; I should wonder if the
flowers would know you."
"I know them, Thomas; I can't forget the good times I used
to have up here. I love these, (pointing to the Australian collec-
tion,) as dearly as ever."
"Oh yes, Miss Chris; in course you must. I'm hoping you will
have them back some day. You'll be getting a home with a husband
inside and flowers all about it; 'then these will belong there. I'm
taking great care of them, and I 'always call them yours. This
world is full of changes; you had a heavy loss; yes, yes, and
I've laid away my sweet Bessie, too."
Chris's eyes filled with tears, which she brushed with hasty
gesture as ,he held out her hand to Thomas,'and said a-few words
in a low tone.


120        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDQW GOLDSMIh'R S DAUGHTER.    121

Otho absorbed himself in examining some rare passion-flowers,
scarlet, purple, and red, such as make the Brazilian forests so
glorious. Presently he called to her:
" Look, Chris ; if you and I were walking in the woods where
these grow, I would pick -some for you; but these belong to
Thomas, and I must beg permission. There is not such an auto.
crat living-as your true gardener among his flowers."
" Don't speak of it, Mr. Otho. All these belong to Miss Chris
in right of her father, who got them over. She shall pluck as
many as ever she likes."
" Thank you, Thomas; I'll remember that when I go home
this evening ; but itdon't matter, either," she continued, her face
darkening as she remembered the fate of a boquet which.Thomas
once brought her-launched into the swill-barrel and devoured
by the pigs ; ''I think I had rather enjoy them  on their stems,,
'tis a pity to break them. But.Thomas," she went on hurriedly,
, you must cut back these carnations; .see how drawn they are.
This fellow is but a robber, after all," lifting a budded plant; "but
all effulgens are shy bloomers at best."
"Ah, but she's a fine, wise young lady, Mr. Otho; hear how
right she- speaks ! It's just so; they should be stocky, but they
are not," answered Thomas, rubbing his knife on his palm, and
gazing admiringly upon his favorite.
" Otho !" called out Bertha from the kitchen door-stone, where
she was feeding the Guinea fowls and coaxing a couple of strut-
ting peacocks, "we want you to come around here and see these
beautiful fish. The gravel is not damp enough to hurt her, shees
got no tooth-ache;" seeing Otho's hesitating glance at Chris's un-
covered head.
" I never take cold, sir," said she, waiting his permission; "pray
let tue go. I like to look at pretty fishes and things."
He handed her down the marble steps, well satisfied with this
behavior.
"There, Chris, isn't that a sweet wretch, and worth the bait he
cost " exclaimed Bertha, pointing to a fierce-looking fish in the
great basket. "I wonder if his name fits his. countenance for
prettiness ?"

"lie's a stranger to me;, I shall have to be presented; come,
Thomas, and do the honors."
Chri3 stooped over the basket and smiled, without speaking.
" Well, Chris," said Otho, watching her face. "What is it ?"
"When I saw his brother, sir, he was called 'kusk.' We used
him1, I remember, for baiting the muscalonge in the .ake, though
they are fair- eating,. I believe."
"Just so; right again," exclaimed Thomas. "She knows sucha
power of things, Mr. Otho," looking proud of Chris. "I mind
well what that handsome little brothei- said: 'I think it is a cuss,
Tliomas,' says he, 'and a very ugly cuss,, too;' and his', papa
looked up: 'Sir John, my boy,' says he, 'bidle your tongue,' -and
the youngster spoke back as gret as anything, 'Yes, papa, I will,
I'll say customer.'"
" Sir John is your brother, I suppose, Chris," remarked Bertha;
"Is he like you ?"
"Not in the least," replied Chris, decidedly; "quite my oppo-
site, every way.
Thomas observed her frowning face, which- darkened gloomily.
Though he and Deborah had{not been permitted to approach her,
or have her visit them, or even to send her flowers,;they knew
something about her life, and he easily guessed her thoughts R'e
touched her shoulder with a tender gesture:
I gotthose fellows up in Basswood Pond," said he-.."You
fished there those .times with your papa, a wee chjck ybuwwere
and my Bessie was along. Do you mind how blithe va my little
maid that day?  How yqu two did skipple and jump around ,the
fairy-rings! We've the acorn cups and saueera yet, Deb and L
Will you like to come sometime. and see them ?",
"Indeed-I will, Thqmas ; I remember:sweet 1 tle Bessie well;
q dear, lovely angel she was. I always think f her and Craig-
enfells together."
She'd a been as well growed as you, Mfiss Chris, by this time,
1i she lad a stopped with us."
Thomas ltoke    willy ,at the yqunggirl a moment.
q-


122:

WIDOW GOLDSMITH's= DAUGHlTER.

"I shall go to her," said he; picking up his knife he walked
slowly away, and busied himself among his flowers-
"Are there pickerel in these ponds ?" asked Otho, recalling
Chris from her reverie.
"Oh no, indeed; they would not bless the man who should put
in the first one. Don't you know they would eat up all the trout
--great,. savage, gamey fellows,.with their ugly snouts. I've seen{
papa play one half an hour, and then he had to use his land-
ing net for fear of losing him. I used to sit in the bow of the&amp;
boat, and watch them dart after the shining spoon, and swallow it
for a rare morsel; and the loons cane sailing slowly around the
bend, and. papa laughed at my fright when they 'uttered their
lonesome notes. It was such a gay day that; we had a copy of
Isack Walton and White's Natural History of Selbourne, and I
read aloud,'and learned some verses for him, and he showed me
the king-fishers and sand-swallows.".
Poor Christabel's conversation seemed, doomed to progress by
jerks. While she was running on all aglow with the topic, she
oddly enough came to a sudden stop, and looked as if the blood
would burst through her tingling cheeks. :Bertha had picked up
a hankerchief from the ground,.and busied herself with undoing
the knots which Chris had a habit of making while she talked,
and was spelling over the monogram to herself.
" Chandos it is," said she, "and Chandos: it will be, and not
Chris. Which is it, Chandos Christabel, or Christabel Chandos ?"
"It is her brother's, I think," said Ruth, in a low voice,-trying
to stop Bertha's remarks. But Chris would not accept any such
shelter; she blurted out, getting redder:
"I could not find any handkerchiefs of my own to-day, and so
I took one of a set I am marking for Chandos. That is his name,
John Chandos. I rarely can find any of my things, because they
are disorderly."
But though she punished herself, she glanced hurriedly at Otho,
dreading the disgust she expected to read in his face., He seemed
not to have heard .the talk.He, was gazing. thoughtfully at the

WO-W     QLDSMITH'8 DAUGHTER        °.rX23
glittering spire of the tiny.church which pointed Itorheaven half-
way up the mountain, silent and alone among the pine trees.
Seated at the dinner-table, Otho Groenveldt played the elegant
host to perfection. Deborah's cooking was rare and fine: the
"lunge" delicate, rosy-tinted, and flaky ; the tartar-sauce creamy
perfection, and the pies ! ah, we Americans are the only people
who are permitted to.taste real pies.
Christabel sat by the host, and the sorrowful curve forsook
her lips,: which dimpled into a smile of enjoyment. These hand-
some rooms suited her; the rich furniture, harmonious; colos
the deep windows crimson-curtained, the glowing grate, the state
nes, the pictures,:rare shells and curious corals,. Mexican birds,
and shining images, pleased her eyes and kindled her imagine.
tion. The rare old china upon- the table, the crystal glass, the
quiet order and- pleasant, abundance ,suited her, and aboveand
before aJl, the little flower-vase at the right hand of each guest,
was a surprise and a delight.. Hers were wind-flowers and -vio-
lets, and they lighted her face with sweet thoughts.
George Blair's talk was as good-humored as his face was fresh
and handsome, and none the less agreeable for being desultory
just touching and leaving many topics, imparting to each a flavor
which lingered. Our Chris blossomed ont gloriously in the genial
atmosphere, and was as widely different from the:silent, spiritless,
drooping. girl her mother, knew, as the cinder-wench from the
Princess at the ball. She entirely forgot to be shy, a'd talked
and laughed so gaily, and.,looked: so joyous and animated as to
call up smiles on the faces of her friends. Her voice took sa mel
lower tone, and before the dessert came she had laughed aloud ;
even Ruth had rarely heard that, a ripple of soft music, marvel-
ously sweet to listen- to.
:Whenthey rose from the table, and Otho ofered his artnshe
took it quite easily, and walked with him into the library, where
she plunged with the most absolute gusto into a book'talk, taking
down her favorites, one by one, and handling them.with that ten-
-der, reverent; care which always; marks * the touch of: the true
lover. Shie sat beside hiin while he read to her and interrupted.

7I


121  WIOW            OLDSMIHt's DiGnUExf.
him with pertineht remarks and comments, which filled him with
sweet wonder and' rare, delight; such quaint and, true gems she
offered him, and as unconsciously as if they had - been brook-
pebbles.
Uncle Alec had a fine fortune, we know, even before he bought
and drained the silver mines; -and he used it with lavish hand to
beautify and adorn the old homestead he was so justly proud' of
1770 was cut in the tablet over the great hall door, and the Craig-
enfells had lived there since the first Alec game over, and he was
buried in the'sheltered-volley beneath a 'great brown table; sculp,
tured with cherubs heads, and setting forth, his many virtues, not'
the' least of which was his being a good and loyal subject of King
Georges
Everything about the library testified to its owner's love for it,
as a favorite retreat, the place in which his soul took sweet de,
light., Chris sitting there listening and enjoying, as sloe would
haveA said, "living,"~ looked around with charmed' eye. Many of
the belongings were old friends; the exquisite " Stella ":of pure
mnarble, bearing the crescent on her perfect head; the radiant,
joyous look of her up-turned face,; the idea of jubilant motion in
her airy tread and gauzy wings, flitting through boundless=space;
She had studied, it with her papa at .her side, and Uncle Alec in
the great smoking-chair by the window. The carved cabinets and
marquetrie tables, the marbles and the landscapes, the carpet of
warmly-blended colors, the gorgeous blooms of the rare plants,
whoseperfume came floating through the open doortof the'llittle
bird-cage conservatory, the ivys twining about the pictures, the
great book-cases filled with volumes rich and rare, were familiar,
and it seemed but yesterday that she, a wie girl with heavy curls,
had sat there, loving and. beloved. It was 'as if her childhood
came back, and her dear father was still her protector, and'-all
the tough places were, smoothed for her. She smiled when she
remembered how gleefully he had shown her the'deep grotto cut
above the great mantel, (itwas: just finished-'then) lined and
paved with shells and !inty rockwork, from=the centerFof which
a bright jet'of water spouting through a' frog's month,fell, faintly

WIDOW, GOLDSMIT'S -DAUGHTER.

tinkling, into a basin below; :She begged OQtho to turnit on now,
and she: clasped , her hands and, listened to the faint murmur.
The mimic mountains in the back-ground,. crowned with temples
and saintly shrines, were storied grounds to her: each bending
pilgrim, in cockle hat and shoon, who climbed their steep sides,
had a history, woven among smiles and gay. talk for her pleasure.
The marvelous clock -.where the canaries sang the hours, (oh, they
had sung such a many songs since she had been there last,) the
great mirror,,before, which she had stood in palpitating wonder ;
it reflected a different figure, now, and the ,artist gentlemanwas
not there. She went over it all, unconscious that her ne--found
friend was lending himself to her changing moods, and. watching
the lights and shadows flit over her face, with an interest he had
never found in any other study.
The view from the great windows was rich in many b ,euties.
The vast grounds, rolling and swelling, dotted 'with evergreens,
sitting stately and still, waiting for the coming spring to .shake
out their soft tassels, and welcome the nesting birds to their thick
shelter ; the great ponds in the distance ;; the high mountain, in
which were cut rocky steps, winding up, past the little Grecian
trifle of alspmmer-house which stood beside .a lake, so clear and
cold, rippled and ruffled by every passing breeze, and filled with
speckled trout, and then away up to the quiet church, and on to
the tower, at whose base she found the white pipe-flowers, like
chiseled alabaster., Ah, how well she remembered the day -d
the hour she spent leaning, on the heart she loved, and gazing.'
down upon. the. wide-spreading valleys and wandering brooks, and
quiet ponds, and sheltered homes below her; And hogw  oaring
River 'went rushing and shouting its mad music, and dashing over
the rocks at petrifying spring. Chris could see it all,' and she
fancied that Otho's voice in ringing cadence, mingled with the
sounding waters, .and the singing 'in the. tops of the pines; the
tones. somehow spoke to, her of hope and joy which should yet
blossom inher path and perfume her, life.
While these pleasant musings still occupied her thoughts, and
the smile yet, parted her lips,:Ruth ,came gaily in, hunaming a'


126         Wi1t0W GnaLD)TIT'DAUGHTElfR.wS

li.vely air, and Otho, laying down his book,'advanced to meet her.
He took her hand and drew her away to the deep bay-window,
and they spoke together in low tones. Too honorable .to listen to
a conversation evidently not meant to reach her ear, Chris rose
and walked into the deep curtained recess which overlooked the
great' lawi and more distant pine-groves; and her eyes followed
mechanically the windings of the shell-walks, turning about and
about here and there.
Otho seemed'determined to carry a point which Ruth debated
and combatted, and 'his voice'sounded firm and masterful as well:
as entreating. In the perfect stillness of the room she could not
avoid hearing him say:
"You have told me often and often, Ruthie, that you loved me,
and I always believed you. Trust goes with love; you shall-
trust me now."
-]tuth laughed lightly, and replied :,
"Be careful what you do, Mr. Otho ; my husband is a close,
observer, and he will watch you narrowly."
"Did you ever tell him, Ruthie ?'
"Nonsense, Otho! don't ask absurd .questions."  She seemed
to hurry on, ." I believe I must trust you to-night; I can see no
harm in it, but if I promise to allow you your own way, which I
must do you the justice .to admit you usually take in spite of ev-
erybody, you must be very discreet. You have plenty of time;
don't rush into anything you will regret."
""You may trust me for that, Ruthie," lifting her hand to his-
lips, " and thank you, dearest, (forgive the word-it would come
--I have not uttered it sinee,) for your compliance with my re-
quest."
"I think you will utter it oftener than ever, and in fondest ca-
dence too," she replied.
Facing about, she looked astonished to see her husband stand-
ing by the mantel, leaning his head on his hand, and she and
Otho exchanged glances. She walked down-the room to him,
saYing:m
" You here, George ! I did riot see youi come in."

"I dare say not, duck, as your back was- turned toward me,
and you were too busy talking to hear my footsteps."
He went on slowly, and she thought mournfully:
" Shall I tell you, Ruthie, what I was' thinking ?"
"Yes," she replied, her color rising, and glancing furtively
after Otho, Who went out at the door and called to Thomas.
" Just this, duck. You ought to have just such a home as this,
and'perhaPs I did wrong when I took, you to share my poverty.
You look so pretty and so joyous; I heard you singing through the
halls awhile ago, and are so at home among these elegant things.
I should like to be rich for your sake, little one."
"Don't, George !" exclaimed Ruth, throwing her arms around
iis neck, with sudden fondness. "You are so good and true, sc
nuch better than I. You make me see myself so small, so
wicked."
When the evening lamps were lighted, they had games and
puzzles, and when George glued himself to the book-case, refus-
ing to be detached, Otho proposed that they should'each write 'a
poem of four verses, giving half an hour tothe task, and prom-
ised a ride upon Zephyr, (one of the beautiful Craigenfella horses,)
the first fine day, as a reward to) the most perfect composition,
he being the judge.' Bertha laughed, and said she was certain
of going on foot if riding were made to depend upon the inditing
of rhymes, but she sat down readily, nevertheless, with'her pen-
cil and paper. These young people, trained to home amusements,
never objected to any project which seemed the will of the ma-
jority.  Chris snuggled herself cosily into the- soft easy-chair,
and took the Faber which Otho pointed for her, and thanking
hin with a bright smile, she soon became absorbed in the pleas-
ure of her task. She wrote steadily on, till she had finished, and
then sat leaning her chin in her hand and gazing dreamily out.
once or twice she turned her head toward Otho, and then sank
back among her thoughts.
" What is it, Miss Chris ?" said he.
"Nothing, sir," she answered, dropping her eyes and coloring
up.

r.1

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S, DAUGHTER.'      127_.


12$          WIDOW -GOLDSMITH'$ DiUJGHITER.
O Dut I am  sure ]'fot were  about ,to  ask  something  of  me; don't
be afraid of the new friend; he's not inclined to be dangerous ; I
assure you he never eats children."
"I could not suffer from such taste if it were yours, sir; I
don't come in that category.. IF'don't -think I ever had any true
childhood ; if I had it has vanished so far away among the shad-
ows'khat I have forgotten the color of it.",
I see I shall be obliged to speak your concealed thoug ht.for
fot.'"
 Youare not able to 'do that, sir, since I do not carry my,
thoughts in my hand to -be read at will."
"I have been reading your face, however. You fear or decline
f6 trust mine; you believe you-would not be safe in my unpractised
care: Youdoubt my skill or my strength, or both."
"No sir," said she, piqued to an avowal. "No sir, but since
you will have me to uiter the folly, I was thinking I should like
to ask you if I' might ride as fast as Zephyr could run, in case
I' should be thought worthy to ride at all."-
"I expected something of the out-of-common sort," said he,
smiling; but perhaps you are not aware how odd a request that
'i 'for -ayoung maiden to prefer. A gentle trot or a subdued can-
ter is all that is taught at Desbrough's."
"'Of' course it is bad taste, but I must confess .to a desire to
race and run, and outstrip everybody, and feel my face glow and
'my heart beat."          S.      -
Bertha laughed at her excited face and nervous, clenched hands..
"What unexpected things you do bring out, Chris; you are a
'1Am I ?" answered Chris, absently, her eyes -looking afar, and
her face full of power and will.
"Don't you feel as if you might get a, tumble or so, if you go
'that  it?" called out George -Blair to her over his shoulder ;
disposed to bring her down a little from what he considered false
heroics.
"he' 4idanot comprehend, his sarcasm, but the laugh which fol-
lowed caused her to sink into quietude immediately.

WIDOW -GOLDSMIT-R1'SaDAU$%C}E14
"Very likely," she-said,.taking:up; her pencil:indifferently, and
turning her back upon them all, she' gazed-out of'-the window.
No better task offering for his idle hands, and crayon and paper
in tempting proximity, Mr. Otho employed himself in sketching
her profile, while waiting for:the others to finish.
"Oh, nonsense !" exclaimed Ruth, throwing down her pencil
in despair. " I can't think of anything but my. cradle-song. I
must leave the arena to younger and brighter heads."
" One competitor distanced," said George; and what says Ber-
tha ?  She is transformed: into, a rodent, and gnaweth her pencil."
"Why, to confess truly, with that_long, brother of mine before
me,. I can't get up any rhymes except Otho and poto, and I am
afraid those would be too suggestive of the beer he tippled among
the frauleins; therefore, may it please the noble judge .that I
also retire."
"This brings the affair to a fine point. Now, the question is,
is Miss Chris worthy to make acquaintance with fleet-footed
Zephyr, to. ride and run-to feel her face glow and her heart
beat ?"
Chris reached out her paper with an averted face.
"Read it yourself, please. - It is my province to listenandtprow
ounce judgment."
Chris fretted a little under his side-winder. "-You. are -ac-
countable for the folly," said she, "since you would' have-it spo-
ken.~
" Go on," he answered, composedly.
She obeyed, and read' in clear, flexible tones, what she had
dashed off, inspired .by her 'happy mood, and the charming influ-
ences around her:
'Tis a pretty fairy show,
When the summer flowers blow,
Andtheir fragrance loads the gale;
When the cricket pours his.song
Through the summer evening, long,
And the dancing fire-flies sail.


180     wno som'WIDOWsAiGOLDST.

PTis a pleasant thing to hear,
When the anon is. shining elear,
The bay ofthe deep-mouthed hound ;
And the last bird's lingering note,
An the frog's shrilly croak,
When the sweet wind whispers round.
'Tis a cozy poce to Jie,
When the sun is riding high,
In the stout tree's trembling shade,
On a cool and mossy bed,
With a pillow for your head
Which the clustering roots have made,
Life is full of pretty sights,
And her sounds are delights,
If our hearts will but listen and hear;
'Tis a happy thing to be
In a world so full of glee,
When the friends whom we love best, are near.
Otho sat looking at the young reader ; her profile was turned
toward him, and classic poise of her shapely head, with its wealth
of shining hair twisted into a graceful knot, and the stray ripples
of floating satin caressing her fair cheek, suggested an odd whim.
When the last note of the trembling cadence had dropped into
stillness, he rose with a smile on his face, his hands lightly clasp-
ed,'and his eyes seeking the ground, after his.fashion in his med-
itative moods, and disappeared within the conservatory, and pres-
ently swung open again the glass door, and returned, bringing a
b1n.h of odorous violets.. Corning softly behind Chris, who had
not moved or spoken since she dropped the paper upon her lap,
but sat with drooping head and thoughtful mien, he laid them in a
charming cluster upon her braided hair. With courteous gesture
and kindly beaming eyes, half in earnest, half in sport, and some-
what ashamed of the fantastic folly, he said to her:
"Now are you truly 'violet crowned and sweetly smiling Sap-
pho.' It was but the flowers you lacked to bring out the sem-
blance fine and clear. Tenth muse, all hail !"

She rose and bent before him with modest grace, reaching out
her hand for the single flower he still held. He' resigned it,
smiling.
"You have earned the ride fairly."  He stooped and picked
up the paper, which had fallen to the floor ; " and this I will keep
to remind me of my share in the pleasure, for Sappho must not
ride alone, and Zephyr shall .not miss his mate."  He folded it
calmly and coolly, and hid it in his vest.
Bertha looked.-in simple amazement at the two, and Ruth
broke in upon them with a laugh:
" Of a truth great minds do run in the one channel," said she.
"It is patent that you will have to be christened anew. Sappho
fits you best, therefore Sappho you shall be."
It was a thousand pities, but the happy day came. toits close
at last. The games were all played, the nits and trifles all eaten;
the fire burned low in the grate, the waxen candles wasted to
half their length; still the friends seemed unwilling to separate.
George was first to move, rising into his favorite attitude--chest
thrown out and head back, and punishing himself with little blows
on the vast expanse of which he was justly proud. Smiling down
at his wife, he said:
"It is time to leave the enchanted castle, and descend into the
valley. You are pledged to follow my fortunes, little woman, and
you must move on now."
" Whither thou goest I will go," answered Ruth, with such
tremble in her voice as made, him look earnestly at her.
After an interchange of promises between Chris and Bertha to
see each other often, Pigeon was taken up, fast asleep, and whis-
pered over, and kissed, and wrapped up for his drive. Otho dis-
appeared and soon returned in his fur-trimmed overcoat and
beaver cap, and stood with his gloves in iis hand, giving a last
order to Thomas, who said, "Certainly, sir ; and 'tis a gret night
for it, too."
"Well, Groenveldt;" laughed George, "you are a rare' fellow.
It is not every one has the sense to take such care of himself.
You are as elaborately wrapped as if going on a journey, instead

WIDOWW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.  -  131


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTERi.

WIDOW 'GOLDSMITH'-S DAUGHTER.

of standing on the piazza a few minutes to see us off. I like
that; I believe in coddling nature; she will treat you all the
better for the respect you show her."
Otho darted a keen look at him. His face was as bland as his
tone was hearty. Then he stepped up to Ruth.
" Let me take the boy," said he. " Excuse me, George, if I
usurp your place for a few minutes; my claim ante-dates' yours
by years."
4I wish you would not say such ridiculous things, Otho," whis-
pered Ruth, as she resigned her sleeping Pigeon.
Otho laughed*at the face;she pulled on, but looked provokingly
proud and'perverse.
They all stepped out into the calm moonlight, and found
Thomas in readiness with the close carriage, into which Ruth
was handed, and received her baby into her motherly arms.
George took Chris's hand, to place her by .the young matron's
side, but Qtho held her back, and, drawing her arm within his
own.
"I shall take care of this young lady," said he. " Sappho must
trust to my guardianship to-night. We cannot have moonshine
like this by the asking, and though a coach is a safe tenure for
family people, I have other entertainment in hand for Sappho.
Tramp and I understand each other;.-so bid her adieu and God'
speed, for there's no telling when your eyes may behold hpr
again."'
George looked at him in astonishment, and Ruth opened her
nouth to speak, but he stopped her peremptorily.
"I will have it so, Ruthie ;" and kissing his hand to her, he
motioned George in, and bade- Thomas drive on.
' Now Bertha, for you I shall prescribe sudorifics and going to
bed. Deborah will' have to sit up for her lord, and she can let
me -in on;my return, that is if I ever do return. Sweet sister,
good-night."  He kissed her fondly enough, but in a masterful,
lordly way, and shut her in. "No more night air for you," said
he. He led Chris around to the side, porch, where a light car.
riage was in waiting, harnessed to a coal-black horse, who pawed

the ground restlessly, and laid his pointed ears close to his sleek
head as they approached.
" Just one moment, Sappho; keep your hands in your muff
while I make ready."  He took off the blanket, folded it mechan-
ically, examined the harness, and patted the shining' neck of the
impatient animal. . " Yes, yes, Tramp, my boy, we are off pres-
ently. You must keep your temper, lad, and you must step out
bravely to-night. Miss Chris thinks you look like Bavieca.; she
hasn't told me so, but I read it in her eyes. Are you afraid of
Tramp, Sapphp ?"
" Not at all," she replied, decidedly. "I love horses, and I
feel sure I could make them love me; it is humanity that makes
me afraid,"
Mr. Otho pondered this answer as he tucked her carefully into
the wolf skins, where she sat, like a young Russian Princess,
so be-furred was she. Neither spoke much during the first
half of the drive; Chris was too full of yearning happiness,
which in its back-look on the past- and its onward glance down
her future became almost like pain. .They passed George and
Ruth mid-way down the hill, and, gave them  "good-night" as
they trotted by. Speeding past Echo Lake, black and waveless
under the moonbeams, Tramp pricked up his ears and snorted
at something he saw, or fancied he saw, in the low larches, and
shied out dangerously, jumping on all his four feet at once, and
kept his -dilated eyes fixed on the spot.  A  sharp rustle, a
quivering of the branches, and asmall animal, dashed. out .and
sprang right across his track, and a white owl above ,them sung
out a. dismal " to whit. to woo," which acut the clear air like
a knife, and sent the blood leaping through Chris's heart, it
was so sudden and so shrill. Tramp was beside himself, and
reared and leaped with mad bounds over the narrow road, a
plunge from which into the fathomless depths of the dark water
on one side, or down among the tangled bushes and sharprocks
on the other, would have been death for all. There were a few
minutes struggle for mastery between the frightened, desper te
beast and the determined human will, and Chris sat in absolute

l_3

:A13.


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

stillness, with compressed lips and blanched cheeks, only laying.
one of her hands upon Otho's knee; her eyes, with her soul in
them, were fixed on his dark face, so full of determination
and nervous power.   When by dextrous, hand and soothing
Voice he had subdued black Tramp, and forced him to acknowl-
edge his authority, and- they were swiftly trotting along the
winding road, Otho turned to the young girl and said quietly:
" Why did you not scream, and sieze upon the reins?  Perhaps
you are not educated. to the knowledge that such was the young
ladyish thing to do. You are the firstgirl I ever haw who would
not have perilled her life and mine by that line of conduct. You
were terribly frightened, I know, for your eyes dilated like a
deer's, and I could almost hear your heart beat. Was it human-
ity or the brute which terrified you this time ?"
" Both, I believe," she replied, smiling. "I retained sense
enough to keep quiet though, because I felt sure you would be
offended if I seemed to doubt your power or skill. a I had besides,
a faith in Tramp's chivalry, and confidence in your ability to
manage him and take care of me."
" Did you feel sure- of that ?" he asked, with secret exultation,
which she neither saw nor understood.
"Oh yes, sir, quite sure ; and yqu are better and more merciful
than I expected. I thought you would punish Tramp for misbe-
having."
" Do you think me so terribly savage ?"
"Oh no, not savage, sir ; but I know you do not like to be
thwarted or disobeyed."
"Ah, Sappho, you ar a close little reader of the humanity you
are afraid of."
When Otho left Christabel at her mother's door, he took off his
cap, and put out his hand kindly.
"Good night, Miss Goldsmith," said he ; " may I come to see
you ?"
"If you please-that is-I don't know as my mother-per-
haps," she stammered, her awkward shyness taking full possession

of her, upon her watchful parent's threshold, whose glamour
spread itself even beyond her door-stone.
Otho studied curiously her changing' face, which tried to shut
in her emotions, while her eyes, which had sought his so fearlessly,
turned away in shy trouble. The gay smile had fled from her
lips, and her hands fidgeted among her furs. The transition was
sudden and startling, and grave Otho pondered it deeply as he
and Tramp retraced the road over the hills to Craigenfells.
Chris lifted the latch and passed in, as from fairy-land, to her
bare, meagre life; yet not quite the same, for. her day of joy
could not be forgotten.                              -

134

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DA.tJGIITER.

135


CHAPTER, N I N T H,
RAIN-BO:W IN TROUBLE.
EXCELLENT Mrs. Goldsmith was sitting, rigid and expectant,
before the coals, stabbing her stocking with her clicking needles
as it had been an enemy, and looking about as pliable and pleas-
ant in her motherhood as if she had stayed herself with her grid-
iron.
There be mothers, God bless them, who are glad to see their
returning children, coming gleeful and joyous from a youthful
merry-making, and who greet them with pleasant welcomes and
dear smiles, and sit down cosily over the dying embers, their
genial faces beaming with sympathizing expectancy, to hear all
their darlings have said, and done, and seen, and enjoyed. They
give them fond kisses and tender words before they dismiss them
with warm feet and warmer hearts to their slumbers; mother-
loveblessing them and glorifying all their world.
Excellent Mrs. Goldsmith was made of sterner stuff. She
despised all blandishments as of the earth, earthy; and she turned
about like a crowbar, i* a hole "when her only daughter timidly
opened the door.
"Well! you have really thought best to come home at last. I
should a thought you'd a stayed all night while you was about it.
Left the gate wide open, I suppose, just like you."
" Oh no, mother, I am sure I shut it ; I was careful to go back
on purpose to see."
" Humph! well, if you was careful it was about the first time
in your life, and worth tellin' on."

WIDOW 00LP"MITfl'S DAUGHTER.             137
Chris was passing'on, when her mother stopped her.
"What have you been about all day ? Nothing worth hear-
ing, I'll engage. Why can't you speak up? I should suppose you
might open your lips, after leaving' me without a soul to look at
all day; selfish eretur, don't care nothing for nobody, never did."
As Chris failed to "warm up and wax communicative with this
adjuration, her mother commenced jerking aggravating questions
at her, eyeing her keenly, as if she suspected her of some shame-
ful slip, and must draw the confession out of her by sharp prace
tice.
"Did they dance up there ?"
"No, mother."
" Play cards ?"
"No, mother."
"You've been into something you're ashamed on, or you'd tell
what you have been about. I expected it when I let you go."
Thus encouraged, Chris detailed in a few words, and :without
any enthusiasm, the events of the day, which recital was received
with sniffs and contemptuous snorts, and cutting remarks on
worldliness, and light-mindedness, and -withering quotations from
her favorite volume, which had a"truly inspiriting and comforting
effect upon her fine-grained, sensitive daughter; and when that
poor child crept out of her presence she felt uneasy and oppressed
under a general sense of wrong-doing, though she could recall
nothing improper in her behavior, and she half resolved, with a
heavy sigh, never to go anywhere again.
This was the usual effect of Mrs. Goldsmith's motherly watch
and ward over the soul she had thrust among life's 'trials, and she
called after her, as she slowly ascended the stairs-what ? A
loving " good-night, darling, pleasant dreams to you ?"  Not at
all.
"I s'pose I can go to bed now; 'you've had your good time out,
and kep ine out of my natural rest, and me as tired as a dog, on
my feet all day, while you've been galavanting round. I hope you
are satisfied."


WIDOW GOLDSMITB'S DAUGHTER.

"Why, mother," replied Chris,- pausing on her upward jour-
ney, and looking down with troubled face ; "I am sorry you sat
up for me ; I could not come any earlier, but I might have locked
the door myself."
"As 'if I would trust you ! You wouldn't have known whether
there was any door behind you or not. You needn't expect to
lay abed because you've been rolicking and frolicking, nobody
knows where,.till this time of night, nor you needn't get up look.
ingas if you had been drawed through a knot hole, neither.
There's them shirts to finish, whether or no. Do go along to bed,
what are you stopping there for, with- that.candle guttering and
sputtering in the wind? You wouldn't never think .to pick that
thief out on't, if I didn't bawl to you.: Go along, do, out of my
sight."
Chris hurried off and shut herself into her room. She sat
down on the side of her bed, and her heart sank within her. Go-
ing rapidly over her conduct since the morning, she could recall
nothing wrong, and she put away her depression with a strong-
effort, took off her cap and placed it in-her fur box, carefully
folding her mantle, she laid it in also, and shut the lid. The
room was freezing cold, but she had a task in hand, and she com-
menced-it by turning out the contents of her bureau in a promis-
cuous heap on the floor, and proceeded to arrange neatly and
tidily the heterogeneous mass. She was working out a new res.
olution,:and though her teeth chattered and her fingers ached, she
persevered till her candle-end flared in the socket, (she was not
allowed whole candles, for fear she would read up-stairs,) and
she was forced to undress and creep into bed in the waning moon-
light, leaving her task to be completed in the morning; ,and she
lay awake long, turning over the events of her gala-day, smiling
at her thoughts, and recalling every look and 'tone of the actors,
as only those do whose happy times are few and rare. "There's
a -life above this dreary detail ;" this was her mental conclusion,;
" oh, let me come out into liberty and enjoy somewhat, and I will
try hard to be thankful and good."  With this. prayer and

promise upon her lips, she slept totlive the day over again in her
dreams.
After taking leave of her young maid in her parlous sweetiand
most motherly way, Mrs. Goldsmith addressed herself tow the
task of mixing her dough, or, as she would have said,: "whack-
ing up a batch of bread," before seeking the 'solitude of her
couch. She tied on her ample check apron, and washed her bony
hands, 'and picked her nails, and then measured out the flour and
sifted it harshly,,poured in the emptyings and the milk, dropped
in the salt, all in 'so forbidding a manner that a spectator might
have feared the mixture for rank poison. She kneaded it with
punches and poundings, punishing, it fearfully, all the while turn-
ing over the information she had gotten about Craigenfells. She
had inquired what they had for dinner and for supper, and other
particulars, greedy to learn what she affected to despise. 'At
length she rounded up the white mass, and covering- it with a
table-cloth, folded and interfolded, she put it 'down before the fire
to rise, and straightened her' back, her labor done, her adversary
doomed. Then she carefully covered the embers, and swept the
hearth, and after pinning a shawl over her ears, and inducting
herself into a shrunken woolen garment which she was in -the
habit of considering a night-gown, she laid herself down, drew
the bed-clothes over her stiff shoulders, and her snores soon an-
nounced that Morpheus had received her into- his unwilling arms,
a most rigid and proper burden. She slept the sleep of the just.
Now there arose a faint rustle upon the night-stillness, and
from under the chintz valance of the old lounge appeared a masse
ive head, followed by four 'double paws, ands with' a. serpentine
glide, and a quietly waving tail, Rainbow, Chris's :favorite cat,
walked carefully abroad, reconnoitreing the premises. He had slip-
ped deftly past his young mistress while she was all in a tumult
between: her' two lives, the without and the within, and cleverly
hidden himself with the intention of a quiet and comfortable night,
before the nice bed of embers, when his ancient enemy should be
safely disposed of, and the coastquite. clear.

i

138

WIDOW"'GOLDSMITH 'S ,,,DA-UOUTRR.

1gg


140         WIDOW  5G LD SMITII'8. ,DA  6GflTE)R. O~                      QDM1I~ JM~~E

Now'rainbow was a ramousteharaeter in his way, and fought
and managed his place in the world with a boldness and dexterity
worthy of all praise, and made himself comfortable in spite of
Dame Goldsmith's besom, and her anathetnas, and was a source
of infinite pleasure to, his young-.mistress' who loved him like -a
dear friend. He 'could open any door in the house, (Brookside
wasr anold-fashion'ed mansion, and la%ches*'wre still in use there;)
he would hangon with one pa* and play the thumb-piece with
the'other till it yielded, and then he would enter, his mottled tail
softly waving, and his double paws planted as squarely as a leop.
aird's, his yellow eyes winking and blinking in the most in,
concerned manner. .He always knew when the widow's hard face
meant particularmischief, and rarely allowed himself"to be cor..
nered. -He was never in the way cr .under foot; he never aslied
for anything. toy eat, though he took ;coinplacently any. delicacy
whidh was offered him, candy, raisins, and the like, and was alt.
ways leek,,'plump,'sand well-fed at somebody's 'expense; and he
purred for 'Chris, in, their -hours, of confidence, like 'a 'cheerful
cider-mill in full action.
AllIthe neighbors knew him, and he would take sudden likings
to one, or.other of them, and follow the friend of the hour about
like -a dog.{ He often went sporting with Peter Bradshaw, and
got arbird or a fish for 'his -share of the' game. He walked de-
murely among the chicken'cops and broods -of young ducklings,
as though he had never palated the flavor of tender fowl; and
though thiir numbers were sometimes; decimated, it was laid to
theaccoiint of foxes and skunks, and' such outside barbarians; it
could never 'be brought home to Rainbow.{
Little Pauline Bradshaw'and Gracie Jenkins used to dress him
up in baby-things, and he would suffer himself to be night-capped
andadorned at their -sweet pleasure; only sometimes he would
vary the game by leaping from' his crib, where he had been curled
up, pretending to be sound asleep, though all the-while watching
his chance out of the corner of his eye, and scour away like :mad
with them shouting and laughing in his wake, evidently enjoying
the fug in the serene depths of his catly soul.

He chose odd-pets,,and. justnow was taken up with .a- 'poor
little orphan duckling, who had somehow got launched upon the
pond of existence at an inopportune period, and he was us d to
fondle and play with it as if it had been a kitten. He would
turn it over on its back and kick and bite it,.and lick it all over,
and talk and purr to it ; and ducky loved its furry friend, and
when Bainbow was sitting in the sunshine, with; l4d double paws
ewdled, under hin,i quietly dozing, he, would be aroused,by a
plaintive "quck " in his ear, and the orpha-would waddleup,
with hid shining feathrs; glistening and flashing, and rub his
glpssy green head against the yellow and black coat of his lordly
prQtectqo, and challenge him to a play.
oII bought hom.e strange trophies, and, laid themat Chris's
feet: great green bnUl-frogs, speClied toads, scarlet and black:efts,
such as,:lie perdue beneath mossy rocks, lizzards, which ome
forth only in the night-time, and: shy birds:which haunt the din
forests, When ay little children came to Brookside, he always
went hunting for the~ni, first making sure in his own mind' that
they were friends of Chris, and would never .return without a
vqtive offering. He pinned his faith implicitlyto Chris, and
would beg for and swallow a portion of whatever he ,saw her eat-
lng, and would often help himself toa favorite morsel,, a walnut,
or raisin, before Chris could convey it to: her mouth, hooking it
deftly out of, her fingers from his chosen place on her shoulder,
*where le would lie with his face close to-her little roundiear, as
if 4e were whispering secrets.
He went atealing. about the great kitchen, purring; softly to
binialf, and encountered the huge pan on the hearth, and after
smelling it he put a paw softly in; finding it hice and warm, he
put in another, and then cudd himself up in a ballaxactly in
the center of the folded cloth, and with a prolonged pur, a high
of intense enjoyment, he sank peacefully to rest.
As the minutes sped on,, the clock ticked off their passing, and
the dough ,qse and rosetill it was alight ruge ,all around Rainr
bow  ai l   e iporningg precisely at Ifiv oclek, Mrs. Goldsmith
woke. She prided herself on her exactness -in tlus as in every.

1 .4.1  v

1 w   p o# Tl! -+

J


-142       WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW "GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.     143

thingelse. Glancing outinto the kitchen through her half-open
door, she spoiled a yawnohe had commenced to indulge in, by
breaking it off' with a jerk, and snapped; her false teeth together
like a steel-trap, her eyes fixed in a frowning. stare upon her pans
of dough. Rising with an exclamation which did not sound like
a blessing, she siezed her besom and dashed to the onset.. Too
late, however; for Rainbow, who was constitutionally a light
sleeper, was up and away before the first corned extremity
had touched.the floor. Then there ensued such a stampingand
tramping, such "scatting" and scolding,,as aroused Chris from her
dreams, and caused her to fly to the stair-case in horrible dread.
of some frightful catastrophe. Thieves ! Fire ! Robbers ! The
great tribulation ! With trembling hand she undid the latch, and
peeped in just in time.to see. her mother sprawl all around a foot-
stool, with grotesque scattering of her formless limbs, and Rainbow
vault over his prostrate foeand scamper past her up the stairs,
with enlarged tail and eye-balls; of green fire, as if the fiends were
at his heels, instead of a poor pious old lady. -
"Pesky cretur!"- muttered the widow,' gathering herself, and
rubbing her damaged shins. "Pesky, good-for-nothing cretur!
I'll lay him out as ,stiff as a bean-pole afore I'm a day older."
Christabel retired unseen from the field of action, and made
haste to dress herself, but not till she had buried her face in her
pillows and had out the laugh she could not repress. - When she
came down stairs she-found her mother too wrath even to scold,
and stalking about with pinched lips and most forbidding eountes
nance. She was busy with a plate of minced veal, into which
she poured a white powder,, (she stood on a chair to reach it down
from the  top shelf of her pantry.) :Having mixed it well with a
stick which she afterwards threw into the middle.of the fire, she
called--..L
"Kitty, kitty!"
Rainbow, safely bestowed in Chris's bed, respectfully declined to
listen to they voiceofthe charmer, and only moved one-ear back-
ward and' pointed-the- other toward the door, and :looked as sly as
if he had eaten- the canary.

" Dum cretur ! he shall come ; I've made up my mind to kill
him, and I'm goin' to do it, if it costs me a lawsuit. Here, you=
Chris, you land that cat of your'n down here in less'n three shakes
of' a lamb's tail. I've fixed him up a nice breakfast, and. you
shall feed it to him."
"Oh, mother!" pleaded Chris, with dilated eyes ; " what is it ?"
"It's libeled arsenic; some call it rat's-bane; I guess it will do
for cat's-bane now."
The widow drew down her lids half over her shining black
beads of eyes, and straightened her purple lips over her teeth, in
grim enjoyment of her joke; but she carefully avoided meeting
her daughter's glance.
" That cat will be dead carrion in about the space of half an
hour. Walk him down, I tell you."
"I can't do it, mother ; it would be wicked murder. I can't
kill ny best friend ; don't force -me to do it. Dear Rainbow, he
shall not stay in the house another night."
"No, I don't intend he shall. Come, march ! be off!"
Be merciful, mother ; don't take away the only thing that loves
me."
For answer to her appeal she got a smart blow on her cheek,
and a headlong push toward the door.
" Go out of my sight, white I can keep my hands off of you,
if you know when you are sell off."
i She did go, creeping up stairs with bent head and fast-falling
tears, and calling her .pet, e came and jumped on her lap and
licked her face. She covered him with kisses, and held him close
and buried her cheek in his soft fur; but her breast heaved, and
her eyes gleamed. She chafed indignantly under "the cruel des-
potism.
Her mother's sharp voice struck her ear:
"You'd best make haste up there. I'll be up myself pres-
ently."
She forced down her grief, and set. -her teeth, and with the
noble animal lying trustingly in her arms, she slowly descended.Z


WIDOW GOL S&amp; lSi 'S' DAUGIITER.

"You:nasty brute ! I'll kindle a fire in yQur in ides  You
won't need my dough to warm you up after you've swallowed the
nice little breakfast your mistress is go' to, give you."
She set the plate down on the hearth, and told Chris to, put the
cat beside it. He smelt at it, and rubbed his head against Chris's
dress, but would not touch it.
"You makehim eat it, you Christabel, or I'll have you poke it
down his throat with a stick."
Chris said not a word, but taking up the plate, she carried it
out on to the door-stone, and called Rainbow. He galloped fear.
lessly after her, and plunged. his nose into the mess. She could
not wait to see him eat it, but went back and shut the, door, quite
sick .her face like marble, and such pitiful eyes as would have
made your heart ache. The widow went and peered out of the
window.
"There.! he's et the last mossel on't," said she. "You needn't
set there, doing nothing, come, stir round; you may go out and
look at your only friend--he's done for himself."
The two sat down to breakfast. Chris could not touch any-
thing, but the widow partook with the particular relish which a
welspent morning gave her; and then Chris gathered ,up the
dishes, and, prepared to wash them.. Passing to and fro, she, by
.n unaccountable impulse, slowly approached the .window, and
gazed fearfully out. She knew beforehand the sight which must
greet ;her eyes,:but could snot refrain from looking. Poor, poor
Rainbow ! her darling companion, stretched dead upon the turf,
with frothing mouth and convulsed limbs.
Could she believe her senses ! She ru bbed her eyes and look-
ed again. Was that Rainbow capering and frolicking among the
flying leaves ; racing, chasing among the light flakes, as merry as
a grig, and as nimble, light-footed, and graceful as only he could
be?  The widow, who was watching to see how her daughter
bore her salutary discipline, was amazed by the bright smile
which glearmed like a sunbeam all over her face, and came up to
the window and peered out.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              145
"The land-sakes alive !" muttered she. "That rep-tile is
bewitched, or else he's an imp of darkness in the .shape of a cat.
le et all the arsnic, and there he is prancin' round as provokin'
as ever ! Well, I am beat ! I'll try gross supplement next time.
Christabel, come away from that winder this minite, and set down
to prayers."
7T

-J

'I
1

1~

Ii 4

E
r
r
4


WIDOW GOMYS1Tra'S DAtJGHL'ER.       14

A

" Mally -' she sobbed, and sank down beside her child. The
suffering creature's purple lips were parted and her chest heaved
with every gasping breath. Ruth lifted her a. little, and wiped
the death-damp from her face. As she did so, the small head
fell back, the pinched, starved features contracted, a few -more
laboring breaths, a qpick, sharp struggle, and she was gone. Nu
more hunger nor pain! She veiled her face with her wings i
the sudden brilliance of glory which the wide-swinging of the
pearly gates showered upon her.
"And there shall be no night there, and they need no candle,
neither the light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light;
and they shall reign forever and ever."
Ruth laid the poor pale little body down softly. She pushed
back the hair from the ghastly wound, and closed the eyes which
might have been pretty if they had seen less of want and sorrow.
The poor mother looked up as she felt Ruth's tears upon her
hand, and she mingled a blessing with her prayers for the dead.
"Another of us gone," she murmured. " I'm thinkin' it's me-
self'll soon follow them."
Ruth was moving about the desolate place, after she had ar-
ranged the body for the coffin, and wishing she could do some-
thing to take the heart-ache out of the mourner, when she saw
Sonsie's eyes fixed on her, from the bed in the corner. She.was
shivering with the cold, and hugging her arms, her head resting
on her drawn-up knees, trying to keep down the hunger-pang
which was devouring her.
"Come, Sonsie, come home with me. I will keep you awhile,
and see what I can do for you; perhaps I can find you a service;
there are enough here without you."
She rose quickly, tossed off her shock of black hair and smiled.
" I must not leave her alone with the dead. But I'm wild with
the hunger," she whispered;. "It gets the better of all the rest
of my feelings; I can hardly be sorry for little Mally, I'm so
starved. I thank you kindly, but I'll stop here."
" Indade, ma'am,. but I'd be pleased and glad for her to go,"
said Mrs. Eagan; "and the blessings of all the saints go wid ye
for a kind lady to the poor."

CHAPTER TENTH..
SONSIE FIGHTS IT OUT WITH.HUNGER.
WHILE Ruth Blair was standing inside her little gate, that
Craigenfells evening, waiting for George to unlock the door, and
listening to the quick tramp of the horses over the frozen road,
and thinking her private thoughts, she espied in the clear moon-
shine her little Irish friend trotting toward her, at his best speed.
She called out as he approached:
" What's amiss, Dennis, my boy ?"
" Mother says will ye be plase to come quick, ma'am; our little
Mally is passing away." He was quite breathless and sobbing.
Ruth hurried into the house, where George was raking open the
bed of coals, and punching sparks out of the back-log.
" Oh dear, George ; that poor child ! I must run right away
down there. 'Won't you just undress the baby for me?  Here's
his night-gown, and you know the song, ' The cricket sings under
the hearth,' and the rest of it. Sing it good and slow, there's a
dear fellow; and don't whistle any, please. I don't suppose I
shall have to stop long. Poor little sufferer; maybe she'll be
gone before I reach there; I almost hopeso. The clean robes,
white robes, which Sonsie has learned to sing about, are waiting
for her up there, I'm sure."-
When she and Dennis reached the poor place,.they found the
mother on her knees beside the child, wringing her hands and
moaning. Going quietly up, Ruth dropped a soft touch upon her
shoulder ; the poor creature turned a haggard, woeful face to her,
and lifted her hands piteously as if she could help her.


148       WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S ,DAUGHTElt.

" Come then, Sonsie; you've had nothing to eat to-day, I'm
afraid. We dined out, -and I'll have Dennis- bring the chicken
for the rest."
" The young ones got some cold pieces, but there was so little
of them, that Dennie and me we couldn't touch them. He's a
brave little -bit, is ennie." She stooped over the lad, who had
been leaning against .her, and threw her two arms around his
neck: "Don't give over, dear," said she; "it's many a sorry
tramp we've had, but it didn't kill us, did it? and we'll fight it off
yet. He'll go with you, ma'am, and bring the food for mother;
she don't know how hungry she is."
" You are quite right, Sonsie," answered Ruth, thoughtfully.
"You ,must stay.here till little Mally is buried, then come to me,
and I'll see what I can do for you. I'll remember Dennis, too,"1
she added, smiling at the look which Sonsie gave him. '" I'll
come early in the morning."

CHAPTER R ELEVENTH.
TH1E IRISH BABY.
RUTH had quite a task to get Pigeon to sleep that night. The
cricket had sung under the hearth to no purpose, in his father's
rendering of the cradle-song, except to make him more wakeful
and eager for a frolic. He did drop off at last, however, and
Ruth sat down before the fire and crossed her chubby hands, arid
looked musingly into the glowing coals, before she laid her fingers
on George's knee, and said
"Now that it has all exploded and blown over, I don't mind
telling you what, a wiid scheme I have been nursing, though I
know you will make fun of me."
"Well, duck,"' said George, laying down his differential calculus
good-humoredly, in whose depths he had been burrowing, "dome,
I'm all attention ; you are preparing to ask charity of dame Wil-
liams, perhaps."
'" No, no," replied Ruth, laughing, and shaking her head; "not
so bad as that, though she has redeemed her reputation by send-
ing d  n a string of onions, two pairs of stocking-legs, and some
pants or Dennis, ragged in places, but then she thoughtfully did
up some patches in the bundle, only the pants were blue and the
patches green."
" Good for dame Williams! But the wild scheme-I am very
impatient."
George threw a curious look at Ruth, and waited to hear
whether her confession would bear upon the events of the day.
" Well," commenced Ruth, folding her check-apron in fine
plaits, and looking at it with her head on one side ; " well, I was

-


150        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

thinking of adopting that poor little Irish baby. It is a girl, you
see, and I thought I should like to save one misery from the great
crowd that is weeping about the world; and then all my pretty
baby-clothes ; Pigeon 'has out-grown -them, you know. In fact,
the idea has not been out of my head since I looked into that old
boat of a cradle, and saw that helpless wretch set afloat so; I felt
as if I must pick it up and save it."
"My prophetic father !" said George, softly.  'I don't really
see the particular necessity of taking in babies out of the general
fund; but it was like your kind heart to wish to help the poor
thi-g, duck," he added, noting the rising color on his little wife's
cheeks. " You may keep Sonsie if you like ; she may be of ser-
vice :to you.
"Yes; but she is only a servant, and I wanted a little girl to
bring up with Pigeon."
SOh, that is the logic," replied George, 'laughing. "Well,
duck, I think baby girls are nice little articles myself; I wouldn't
mied eight pr ten of them, about the place, all in good time. I
think I;should niake a famous jolly old patriarch ; and the young
maidens are sure to be good and pretty like you, Ruthie. If that
blamed rotary will only work so as to pump up the needful for
frocks and aprons; if that won't something else shall; your hus-
band.is not .going to dirty his hands with blacksmithing all his
life, if his brains are worth anything. You were gay and happy.
up at Craigenfells ,to-day, duck; your eyes sparkled, and your
face was all over dimples. It is fine, the dolce far niente. What
the deuce can ail that packing ! "-and thereupon he screwed him-.
self into so intense a conetenation of calculations upon the' diffi-
cult problem as to become entirely oblivious of all outward objects,
and though he held Ruth's hand in a close clasp, it was evidently
'to him no more than the rubber band he was trying to adjust.
Ruth suffered him to think on till she was forced to move away
from his encircling arms She hgd biscuits to mix in preparation
for the important to-morrow, which was to usher in the sewing-
'society. s At the first little motion she made, the thinker dropped
plump from his reverie among chains and pulleys, into mortal

WIDOW   GOLDSMITs.I  DAUGHTER.         101
affairs, and smoothing out the deep lines from his forehead with
a smile, he held her fast and 'close, and commenced where he had
left off:
"And what turned you from your virtuous design, duck ?"
" It would not work. I mentioned it to Mrs. Eagan, and =at
first she was delighted, but that very 'afternoon a travelling priest
came along, what she calls a 'missioner,' in truth a bare-foot friar,'
to confess the flock who swarmed out to him, and I suppose she
asked ghostly counsel. At all events, he ordered her to abandon
the idea at 'once, and told her that it would be sre perdition for
the orphan to give it over to heretics; and much better for it to
die crossed with the 'holy water, all ready to go to heaven, even
if it.starved to death, than to sell it to the devil, (meaning me;)
and he threatened her with excommunication, and I don't know
what all, if she dared to disobey him. She was very loth to tell
me, and I had to screw it out of her by the hardest, and I don't
know as I should have got it at all if Sonsiehad not helped me.
That girl will make a hard Catholic for any priest to manage;
she is a self-reliant little piece, and as sharp as a needle;"
" Just like them!" exclaimed George, bringinghis fist down on
his knee, from which Ruth snatched Fher plump little hand, with
a wry face, and clasped it in its fellow.
" Beg pardon,.,duck," (kissing the offended member,) "I beg
ten thousand pardons; but it roils me. I late- them-regulai-
dogs in the manger; they won't educate their people, and: they
won't let us do it; but we will in spite of them. Why only last
Sunday Pat Brady was read out of church because he would
send his children to the district school. The men were all up
about it, at the forge, and Father O'Gorman Came in for some
hard names. There will be a great struggle here some day;
strange that 'our people don't wake up to it; more roasting and
broiling, if they get the upper hand. Popery is a quiet' tiger just
now, but it is a tiger, as 'thirsty for power as ever."
"I hope our Pigeon will not be here when the struggle comes,"
said Ruth, shuddering.


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

r
i

"Jem Scollins said rather a good thing up at the fore the
other' day; I was struck with it. 'Faix,'.said he, 'and how does
yes Yankees expect to- be holding the country when your women
are so afraid of bearing the childer. Look at them! they call
three or four little blackguards a mighty family to rear, and most
of them makes a divil of a fuss if -they've two; and do you mind
the crowds of spalpeens you'll see of a fine evening playen'
around the cabins of our stout Irish wives. Oh, it's us .that'll
stock the country for ye, and, we'll give it the good Catholic faith.
to save your souls in spite of yes, that the devil is licking his auld
chops for entirely:"
George put one of his feet upon the old-fashioned fender, and
admii-ed the fierce lion's head on the toe of his slipper, and then
brought his Mouth close to Ruth's ear, and asked--for what, think
you, a kiss? not at all-a .piece of mince pie. She rose and
fetched it, but remarked, remonst1atingly:
" You will see your grandmother before morning, if you eat
mince pie this time of night."
"Well, I have no objection to grandmothers, duck. I hope to
see you one some time. I'm hungry, Ruth; an awful feeling. I
heard of a convict the other day who said he. should'like to get
such a dinner as would make him dream that the devil sat on his
stomach with Bunker Hill Monument in his lap. - He must have
been a poor starved chap, mustn't he, Duck."
'Ruth brought the pie and set it down to warm, and seated her-
self on George's knee for a little more talk. She loved dearly to
talk, did-Ruthie, especially with her husband ; so she spread out
the fingers of his large hand and fitted her little one to it, finger
by finger, and said:
"Tell me something nice, George."
"What a greedy little duck for news,; always saying, 'tell me
sorieth ig,' but 1 have got a thing to tell worth hearing. I have
,had a proposal to leave the Gonecussets, and go into business.
My friendY IHawkshurst is the party, and' I believe we could make
a good thing of it. He was with me you know where I -got my
trade, and is a fine practical fellow, and as true as steel."

1t2

153

wIDOW GOLDSMITH'S, DAUGHTER.

" Blacksmithing ?" asked Ruth, working carefully to get her
little finger into rank, and looking closely at it.
"Of course," replied George, with a restless movement; "you
know I am not ready for anything else; I've got no capital. I
cannot stand Deacon Williams much longer. The good man is
too tricky for me. If he would pay money I might live, but as
long as he compels me to buy our supplies at his store, at his
own prices, he takes it out of me too chunky. I must free my -
self from his clutches; I've been talking up. a co-operative with
the workmen ; the Gonecussets are in a fearful wax about it, but
they shan't shut my mouth, though I do hate to take money of men
whom I despise. Captain Slocum is a brick and Bisbee well
enough, but Deacon Williams and that Hitchcock-a precious
pair! One reason I am willing to trust Haux. is, he isn't a pious
cuss, and don't run a Sunday school."
" Oh, George Blair !" exclaimed Ruth, springing up and point-
ing her finger ; " you must not say such things."
" Well, duck, I won't; but it makes me sick to see how much
of that livery there is worn to serve the devil in. Sit down
again."
Ruth accepted the invitation, and returned to the subject under
discussion.
"It is a horrid bother to have to get all our things at the Gone-
cusset store. I could get a better piece of merino at Starbird &amp;
Pedlow's for a dollar than they offered me for a dollar and a half,
just the color I liked, too; but no, I must put up with dull blue
when I wanted scarlet, and Pigeon looks lovely in scarlet; be-
sides I never go there but I feel like the old woman I saw at the
counter buying a table-cloth. ' I'll take this,' said she, humbly,
'if you can spare it.' The clerk said her husband was over head
and ears ins debt to their "
"Yours is not, duck ; I owe no man anything. I think that
pie will do now, Ruthie."
"I think we had best go-to bed," pointing to the clock in the
corner. "You are such an owl, George."


154       WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

Ruth flew about briskly, and with a very thoughtful face, while
George ate his pie. When all was done, she came and laid her
hand on his shoulder.
"George, there's one thing that it is good to remember. God
can fix it just right. We shall have just as much prosperity as
is good for us. He can take care of the Catholics, arid of
Pigeon."
"You always refer things to God, Ruthie, and it is very sweet
of you, but my thoughts don't point just that way. I should like
to take hold and -help on myself. Things look 'dreadfully mixed
sometimes."
" Your mother was a good woman; she trusted and had to
leave her boy alone in the woi-ld, as we may ours. It is good to
know that there is power and love beyond ours, without variable
ness or shadow of turning."

CHAPTER TWELFTH.

THE   FIRST   SEWING    SOCIETY.
THE great Thursday dawned brightly. Mrs. Blair was up to
see it accomplish the feat: the putting on of the -gold and violet,
and the rest, for which see sacred poems by N. P. Willis. She
did not tarry long at the show, for she had weighty matters in
hand which she wished to bring to light, to wit, biscuits and loaf
cake. The whole house had got to be turned upside down, swept
and dusted, and set in order again. The young housekeeper's
ideas had grown somewhat with what they fed on, and ,she was
resolved to have the children of the four or five Roaring River fam-
ilies she knew best, and so make the'assembling do duty as a tea
fight, as George was used rather irreveranfly to style such festive
occasions, at which he could assist with the most enjoying gusto.
She gave an inquisitive business-glance at the world, that is,
so much of it as she could see from her window, somewhat shut
in by hills and over-topped by the bald-headed: pinnacle.
"A very fine -day, for which let us be thankful," she said, as
she lowered the sash and prepared to plunge into her business
occupations. She got her cooking into a-good state of forwardness,
then. she opened the best room and looked about. Its barn-like
size and .general barrenness somewhat discouraged her; she pulled
the furniture about into new 'places, and drew the straight-backed
chairs up together, in the bootless endeavor to give them a cosj,
free-and-easy air, as though they were accustomed to society, but
they would look poor, and, thin, and stiff, and as primias Mrs.
Goldsmith in her best bombazine.

Y
r


WIDOW GOLD SMITH'S DAUGUTER-

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER

" Oh dear !" said she, pounding dust out of the old sofa with
her little fist ; "if I only had a wishing-ring, I might have an
easy-chair, and a couple of ottomans, and a mirror ; but then it
would be just as easy to wish for half a million or two or three
millions. ' Monte Christo' is a book to set one dreaming; dia-
monds and rubys are so cheap in books ; just a dash of the pen,
and-presto! there you are, gleaming in jewels. I don't find
wishing makes me much the richer or any the happier, therefore
I shall-h'm-h'm-let us see-at any rate I should like to be
rich-I will say so--it is nice up at Craigenfells ; George felt it.
How can I-    something to stand in the corner---hum-i'll make
a. barrel-chair !"
She ran down cellar, found a barrel, emptied the withered beets
out on the floor, and raised quite a cloud with her dusting and
scrubbing. "A little musty or so," saiA she, poking her head into
the interior, "but that can't be helped; people have difficulty
sometimes in getting rid of the flavor of their early lives. Now
then for the wood-saw.  I'll get it up into the kitchen first,
though."
It was a tug, but she managed it, and began to scrape the saw
back and forth on it, as resolutely as though she expected to finish
directly ; but the obstinate thing only wriggled, and squealed, and
scratched, and no more, and she sat down and wiped her hot face
in comical desperation, and looked at it.
George came softly singing down the stairs, in his shirt-sleeves.
He stopped in:the midst of a vigorous gymnastic exercise he was
putting his muscles through.
"Why, duck !" he exclaimed in amazement, looking at Ruth,
and the barrel, and the. wood-saw by turns. " What's the pro-
ject "
"Something you will have to do for me, I am afraid," said she,
ruefully.
"Only point the path by virtue safely trod, I'm just the frisky
chap to tread the glorious road."
"I want to make-a barrel-chair."

" ANh-a chair-of a barrel," waving his hand blandly at the cask,
as if desiring it to change into a crimson fauteuil, easy and lux-
urious.- "Just explain the first priiiciples-give a fellow a start."
"'Why don't you see?  Saw off so much for a'seat, and stuff
it; and round the corners, and bore holes for the tufting, and
cover it, and bind it-"
"Nuff sed, duck. Juniores ad laborers like me, (smiting his
chest.)  Just count off the staves you wish to be rid of; I'll set
to work directly, and what's more, I'll make a fancy job of it."
Much delighted, he brought his own saga, sharp and keen, and
sawed, and fitted, and modeled, and shaped with his powerful,
flexible, fingers.
"I ought to have my brown paper cap and my leather apron,
Duck ; I should feel more .at .home. You hardly~ ever come to
see me at the forge in my big apron, Ruthie."
Ruth laughed and made no reply. She did not like to see him
in such guise, and scarcely conscious of the feeling, she was
proudest of him in his best clothes, she had such a natural lean-
ing towards everything rich and handsome.
Happily unconscious of her thoughts, George worked away,
whistling a few soft notes from her cradle-song; and Ruth, after
a few moments' not very profitable reflection, said, looking in-
tently at the shining knife in his hand-:
"George, how came you to be a blacksmith ?"
"Well!" said he, pausing to brush away the shavings, and
looking at her ; "now I call that odd. Here we have been jog-
ging on side by side for nearly two years, and it has just entered
your wise little head to question me."
"You were always so reticent about your youth, I did not like
to seemcurious."
"Perhaps I have been. Well, it was not so very delightful,
that's the truth; you see I was rich one day when the sun rose,
and a beggar when. he went down. Would you love me better,
duck, if I were something else ?"  He stooped and took her face
into his two hands, and gazed down into her eyes, his broad fore-
head a little clouded by what he read there.

I.

156

157

a


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S -DATGHT ER.

WIDOW GOLl)SMITUt'S DAUGrIlTER.

" You want me to say how proud I am of you, but your ruse
won't do; I'm not going to feed your vanity. Don't answer my
foolish question if you had rather not."}
"It is a long tale, duck." -George roused -himself and put
away resolutely his thought; "but you shall have it. I'll tell
you to-night after the tea-fight, if you like."
"Thank you, George ; come to breakfast now."
He had put a last polish to his handiwork, and was .getting
ready to leave her for the forge.
"-Sweet duck, you are-fairly in for it, and I won't ,tease you;
but don't work yourself sick to-day. I should deeply lament the
necessity of putting on your tomb-stone, ' Here lies ,my faithful
wife, ingloriously done to death by the first sewing-society'
Ruth smiled absently. She was busily pondering ways and
means.
-" Oh, George, I've been thinking that it would be a good plan
to take that money I laid away from Pauline Bradshaw's lessons,
and buy a new.carpet. I don't believe I shall ever arrive at oie'
in any other way, and our barn of a parlor is so cheerless."
A little cloud settled upon the young husband's face. "Do
you long for carpets, and such gear, Ruthie ? You are pretty,
and sweet, and a good wife. You shall have everything you
want one of these days ; but be patient -a while ; I must have
time."
Poor Ruth saw her mistake, and made haste to repair it. She
brought her choicest wifely arts to bear, and succeeded in lifting
the cloud; but after kissing her fondly, he went away without
whistling his usual jolly measure, and timing his springing step
to it. He was too deep in thought. " That rotary must work ;
it must, and shall," he muttered.
Ruth soon forgot her inadvertent little speech in her:absorbing
employments. Pigeon awoke much ,earlier than usual, and 'had
to be dressed. The morning was already half gone, and the
chair not yet upholstered. Ruth began ,to feel discouraged. She
sat down and took her pretty boy on -her lap; he missed his
mother's usual devotion, and was fully alive to the suspicion!that-

.she had a- plot to. set.. him aside,; of course he could not abide
that peaceably; he certainly did not believe in sewing-societies,
at least 'when they involved as a consequence the neglect of .ba-
bies. Ruth' began .to feel as if it cost too much, even if' they
clothed all the Irish children in the village. She was just say-
ing to herself, with a weary sigh:
"I wish Christabel Goldsmith would come and help me," when
the door opened and she stood before her.
"Thinking of angels you will hear the rustle of their wings."
Her whimsical greeting did not cover an inquiringgaze into her
favorite's face.
-"Yes, Ruth," said Christabel, going up and kissing her, and
answering to her unspoken thought; "oh yes, I feel better. It was
good of you; that golden yesterday did me a, service. There's
life in the world ; I shall'share it somehow ; I can't see the way
out but I've got a hope; a hard thing to hold on to over there
jerking her =head backward, but I'll try, Ruth. I've' had a new
discipline, but it don't hurt as I should think it would."
" What is it, dear ?" asked Ruth, anxiously.
"Mother locked. the library this morning; and- took away the
key. She says I shall not have that temptation to the awful sins
of idleness and disobedience."
'Her lip curled a little scornfully,,and she burst into a laugh.
" Rainbow has had an escape, I must tell you about it."
Soon the two were laughing heartily. The story lost nothing
in, graphic force from Chris's telling:. "Not one of his nine lives
touched," said she, "not one. Come here, little husband; say
good morning to your faithful wife."
Ruthsecretly thought she would deal somewhat with. the sour
widow on the library question, and she was glad to see Chris take
it so easily. They turned to the, pressing business of the day,
and were soon plunged into the mysteries' of cake making. As it
was to be a "tea fight," and the first. attempt, Ruth was partic-
ularly anxious that everything should be of the nicest. Christa-
bel tied Pigeon into his high chair and ,bestowed on him .a pile of
egg-shells, which he found- infinite satisfaction in crushing in his

18

,159


1O          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S oDAUG  aT R.

little fists ; and the girl's face got more and more its happy, con-
tented look, (she never could smile so at home,) her attitudes
were free and graceful, her white arms well shaped and pretty;
Pigeon patted then when she stooped over him, after tucking up
her sleeves preparatory to beating the eggs. The delicate froth
rose higher and higher, "and her face rose with it ;" she was beat-
ing her vexations and discomforts into her labor.
" Had you any dreams last night, dear ?" asked Ruth, glancing
at Chris out of the corner of her eye.'
Yes, waking dreams,"- replied she, smiling. "I thought a
great many thoughts last night, Ruth. I planned my life ; that
is, the life I could enjoy. I'm not going to tell it, though ; you
would laugh at my folly. Look, Pigeon, at the sea-foam I am
making ! Nay, nay, I said look; -no pretty fingers, if you please,
little-greedy fellow."
Ruth thought she could guess the tenor of her dreams, and
what grave student figured there, but for once she was mistaken.
Though Chris thought much of Otho, and remembered perfectly
every one of his pungent utterances, every keen glance of his
dark eyes, every trick of feature, he had no place in her plans,
no part in her future. Independence, leisure, voyages, art-study,
these were her dreams, but always companionless.
"Butter the dish, dear; I'll have it in the oven now in a jiffy.
I felt as if I could hardly afford (white sugar, but -I thought I .
would for once ;  don't know but George will think me foolish."
A little sigh escaped her, as she recalled her nal-apropos speech.
"I have never invited. any"company ; I shouldn't think of doing
so now, but as I had to have the fuss,and expense, I must con-
fess to a natural leaning towards doing things genteelly."
"How did your tongue prove ?"
"My" tongue ?  A most unruly member'; it has made several
slips already t ,is morning. The pickled one I got from the.Gone-
cusset market'was-so remarkably Frenchy that I was glad to get it
out of the house ; I hope it Won't poison the pigs. There is a half
dollar lost. I do wish Deacon Williams would sharpen up his

conscience to the edge that would compel him to=keep wholesome
meats. I call it grinding the face of the poor, myself."
(The Gonecussets had a market as well as a store for their
workmen. Oh, they knew how to take it out of their bones and
sinews.)
" How lucky !"
"I regret that I cannot view the matter in that pleasing aspect.
It appears to me to be excessively annoying and' disagreeable."
"I was not thinking of the loss of your tongne, dear. That
would be a calamity deeply to be deplored by me if no one else,
for it always comforts me ; nor of the wickedness of the Gone-
cussets, but of a vast piece of corned beef which mother has got
boiled in the pantry. I should like ever so much to be rid of it,
for I foresee no end of hash before it is' consumed ; and. if there
is a breakfast which I particularly detest it is hash; so I will just
run home and beg of her to contribute it to the sewinglsociety."
" Not for the world. The entertainment - is a private ' ventur,'
and George would be horrified. He .says they that go borrowing
go sorrowing. Once in the early stage of our.housekeeping, be-
fore I had got the machinery well oiled, I got out of butter, and
the dear old fellow bravely swallowed his bread in its pristine
purity, though he does not need the yellow cowslip under his, chin
to tell how he loves butter. No, no, my love; the good people
must make out without the flesh-pots to-night."
"I suppose, Ruthie, that you ladies will provide the supper
when we meet at Mrs. Growing's. I heard Mrs. John Bisbee say
she considered that the proper thing to do, and I assure 'you that
Mrs. Growing smiled very approvingly upon the suggestion."
"Of. course ; where would be the use of being minister's wife,
if you didn't have the whole congregation to- fetch and cari-y for
you' ? I don't know how they feel, because I have not been there,
but I should think it would be much more conducive to self-re-
spect and usefulness to have a good salary and live on it like
other public servants, than to feel obliged to duck and bow for
favors which ought to be rights; but they get used to it, I suppose.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S- DAUGHTER.       161'.


s62. -JeWnkinOs ,IT 's DAUGHT El.
MrsdJenkins tol mehatshe asked Mrs.= Dr. Perfect about her
infant wardrobe, and she replied:
'Oh, the ladies will take care to provide that, of course ;, that
rs their province, not mine."'
Chris was by this time gathering the debris of egg-shells, and
clearing up generally.
"Where in, the name of alb the pretties did you  et those tea-
cups?'
"Ah, ,that's neighborly kindness," replied Ruth, smiling. "Mrs.
Williams brought them over; she said she 'thought as like as not
I'd be shortof cups.' Thoughtful, was she not?"
"Very;: but I say, Ruth, she would not have to go into mourn-
ing if they got broken,.would. she-?  They are ring-streaked and
speckled,:like Jacob's flock. I expect she keeps them to bake
custards in.  They look as if they had passed through the fiery
furnace Where Shadrach, Meschack and Abednego walked; but
they have not come of so well as those nice young Hebrews did;
the smell of-fire has passed decidedly upon these, and cracked off
all- their glazing besides."
"Is not that wicked, Chris? Bible, you know.",
"Only Jewish history; Ruth ; and, the Jews themselves place
Daniel's writings among the Hagiographa. I never could see
much sense to his 'time and times and half times,' and I am sure
Cummings has made a dreadful mess of them so far. The Great
Tribulation has been a bitter-dose in my life."
"Drop it out. I know just how George will look when he
sees these things. - He don't love the Deacon or his wife too well,
for the same reason I suppose that oldMiss Pettengill once gave
me for finding so much fault with everybody. She was pummel-
ing away at somebody's reputation, and I said blandly:
" ''
"Why my dear Miss Pettengill, what makes you so 'hard upon
people?'
"'Well, I'll just tell you, Miss Blair,' said she; 'I allers go
into the back door, and work for folks in the back closet, whre
they keep all their pinching' and meanness, and they don't mind

slumW M1OLSM L  T'rS'DATffHTER.    1      8
showing' it to the ol iamaid tailoress; though they double-lock it the
minute they hear the front door-bell. I get drefful sick of folks,
they are so peculiar.'
"You may put the Deaconness' kindness on the shelf, I shall
lot use it unless I aqn obliged to. If everybody cones they will
have to do duty, but so the Souchong is pure I dare say the ladi%
won't notice the cups.. Ou cake is finished, and everything in
good train; 'let us stop to breathe; haven't we been steaming at
thirty horse power speed ?  Chtis,- you are such a good worker
when you'put your mind to it. George,. poor fellow, has taken
his dinner.  It was too bad; I will never do such a thing
again for anybody. We have two hours before anybody can get
here ; let us fly at the barrel-chair; I have set my heart on hav-
ing it in state in the corner like an ancient inhabitant, when old
Miss Pettengill and Mrs. Esquire Hitchcock arrive.'
:.So merrily did they work, and so rapidly,,that Ruth had her
Wish.- The chair was all completed, stuffed with hay, batted with
cotton, bound with quality, and curtained around with chintz, and
turned loose upon society, a tip-top chair, before two o'clock,
without any recollections of a former state of existence to be
embarrassing to itself or its friends.
Punctually as the clock -struck three, Mrs.. Williams and
irs. John Bisbee arrived. They had picked up Mrs. .Grow-
ing on the way, and brought her along, though she made all sorts
of excuses, and did not at all intend to come, They had .some
bundles, and a roll of paper ; the latter the constitution of the
embryo society, and the former clothing -for the poor, as Mrs.
Williams wordily explained while she laid aside her wrappings.
Mrs. Growing produced Freddy s cap, which she displayed with
an air, saying: "My son would give ;his-cap;" she. did not think
.it expedient to, add that he.so; much doubted this mother's veracity
that he never rested till he saw it tied up and under way; and
she waited-with it on her hand for the expected praises of his
early benevolence. -.She had also laviishly brought a pair of sus-
penders and a baby-apron. "I am    ntiost- ashamed really to
bring these things, bit Ithought any little would help, and you


164          WIDOW= GOLDSMITHS DAUGHTERR.
won't expect much, from me,' because you, all know, ladies, how
small Mr. Growing's salary is."
She looked much the same as usual-washed out and uncer-
tam, and did not in the least brighten till quite late in these after-
noon, when the odor of the green tea, began to float about, and
ten she roused up and gorged herself with the eatables.
Mrs. Williams' donation was a yellow lace cap, trimmed with
soiled white ribbon; an old beaver of the Deacon's, and, some
hair-grease in an ancient cracked shaving-cup.
" Beef's marrer," she explained ; "you know their hair generally
sticks up as stiff as brussles on, a hog's back, and I kinder notioned
that ef we got 'em into Sunday school, they'd look more respecta-
ble ef they was licked down a little."
Mrs. John Bisbee and Mrs. Esquire Hitchcock exchanged grins
behind the portly lady's back, at these appropriate offerings on
the shrine of benevolence, and unrolled their bundles of good
solid factory cloth, and nice thick flannel, and spread them out
with pardonable satisfaction..
As Ruth's eye caught Christabel's, lighted up with fun, she
could not help smiling, though she tried 'to pull on as demure a
face as she could.-
The ladies-now poured in rapidly, and the room was soon quite
filled, and all talking together, insomuch that the parlor buzzed
like a bee-hive in swarming-time. Some, settling of neighborhood
affairs was of course necessary: the progress of whooping-cough
and chicken-pox ; and they had a spirited debate upon the mooted
question whether Dick Walsingham had the mumps or only an
ulcer-tooth.
Mrs. Deacon Williams then took her seat at the table,.'and
rapped on it with her scissors, and spread out her silk dress with
an important ait, and settled her stoutness, and called, in'her stri-
dent vol'e, the attention of the ladies to the business of the
meeting.
"This here is the constitution,"-said she, laying her hand on
the roll. "I've draped it up as Solomon .built the temple, that-.
is I ordered it drawed, haI ha! and which I and Miss Hitchcock

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      165

and Miss Bisbee and Miss Growing thinks it will do. I'll:read it.
out loud; please to keep as still as you can; I've got the brown-
creeters, and.my voice is rather hoarse. Them girls in the cor-
ner especially; you can giggle all you're a mind to in the eve-
ning, girls, when the fellars come."
She looked around to make sure that the ,young ladies appre-
ciated her delightful pleasantry.
"The name of this society shall be the 'Scattergood Family.
(We thought how't we'd have it family, so as to sound sociable;
and as I told Mr. Growing, we are all .a band of brothers in the
strong bonds of iniquity.)"  A suppressed audible smile in the
corner.
Then followed article first, second, and. so on; but as it was.
written in crow's-track, sermon hand, and Mrs. Williams was not
in full practice even in very plain chirography, she stumbled
rather, made mince-meat of some words, and composed others;
but she landed safely at the end at last, and nobody hurt, only
the girls forestalled the giggle they were to keep till evening, and
caused the good lady to glower indignantly at them through her
gold eye-glasses.
One article stated that each member should be required to
pay six and a quarter cents admission fee.
"The sum is ruther small on purpose, so that none on ,you
shouldn't feel as if you couldn't afford it. Of course some on us
wouldn't mind six dollars, but there was some of our men's wives
that we wanted to have jine, and we didn't wish to hurt no per-
son's feelings; and we thought mebbe each one had best bring
any old clothes they, could spare, and hunt up, bits of silk and
ribin and such, to make up into needle-books, and watch-pockets,
and pin-balls, to-wards a fair. And we shall hef to work pretty
-niddlin' smart to get it up, because we want to have a neat one.
They had one amongst the stone church folks in Merry Bank last
winter ; Miss Dr. Jenkins.was there, and she said they did dref-
ful well, got enough to new cushion the seats all -over, and hang
up a damask curtain behind the pulpit; and I'm sure it needed
it bad enough, anyhow. My sister Jerusha lives there, she mar-


WIDOW. GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.     , 16'

166  _I4Y      OLDSMItF1A, _ ~ TEt

ried:YMr Ramale, and she told me that they got all'twisted into a
fuss' over it. I rather expect we cn go ahead' of them. There
ain't such a dreadfulisight of rich folks over there and they hairt
got.no-faetories to send "em- ahead."
Mrs. Hitchcock turned over a sixpence she was holdin in her
mouth, intothe other cheek, and craned up and crossed her knees,
and suggested that there should be-a committee appointed to' o'
rond:te the stores, and- get silks and bits of ribbon, and  also to
ask the-clerks for work, and invite them  to attend- aid" °M
Dileet' Pettibone; the lean and elderly school-mistress spoke np
and sdid-
"I will volunteer to be one to go, if the other girls will acconi-
pany me and propound the inquiries, and insinuate' the requests.
1i amf so puffiely fastidious--that-1 should feel 'delicate about soli-c
itingbenefactions alone, even for an object so highly praiseworthy
meritorious; laudable, and charitable,"''as the -one which now dig'
nifies: our aspirations, and ignites our enthusiasm. But I always
constrain tnyself to bear the cross, and I am persuaded that the
Zetetik is the oxny method practicable, and of course as young
girls are the solicitors to obtain liberal donations, I'll promise to
go.   She' finished' her speech with a" sweet smile and a youthful
bridle.
When you gazed into Dulcet Pettibone's eyes, you wondered
that some good' fellow had not seen beauty enough in them to
single her out for his own having, from the crowd, for they  ere
well opened and agreeably expressed.; .but when you glanced
dowr at her mouth, in size-and shape like a toad's, the wonder
ceased. That Dulcet considered'herself'still in the market was
evident from her multitudinous ringlets, and her airish ways, con-
tortions of' body which western people call the "buffalo wriggle' ;"
and old' Miss' Pettengill glowered' at 'her, (prancing across the
room to I whisper in Ruth's ear,) "When you take notice what
homely creturskthe 'men idl pick out, and parade off and get
maried to, you needn't' wonder if' Dulcet catches somebody yet.
If she don't it 'won't be for' want of tryin';" 'said she.' "The lay.
sakes! how folks-can !";~r
Mrs. Esquire Hitchcock suggested once more:

",Don't it appear to you,.ladies, as if we had best buy some
cambric and work some petticoats?  Open-work is powerfulfashw
ionable now, and proper fast to do. Adelizy-Eupheny, she's
done. her some; they're beautiful  She, talk d of coming this
4ernoon, and I shouldn't wonder a bitif she didn't wear it; she
ot it pretty blue in: the wash, but the ;stitches is nice. It is. a
fnger deep. in, palm-leaves and wheel-work ;: I: told her it:was a
wheel within a wheel, like Nebuchadnezzar's vision. She'lL be;
. g. inthe. evening, anyhow."
She then withdrew to, the.window to peer upatheastreet for the.
absent Adelizy Euphemy, whose comings and. going assumed,
much more importance in her maternal calculations than the be-
nevolence in hand,
Nrs., Growing being. appealed to in her character-of pastor's
wife,, emarked, that, she should consider-children'sdlothingthe
most profitable thing, it would sell:: o. readily= a' a fair; she
shonldlike to, buy some herself, "but Mr. Growing's:salaryi was
sco smal."  At which Mrs. Deacon Williams. and- Mrs. Esqirea
Uiebcock. exchanged glances and snuffed:; and:old. Miss =Petten-
gill, whoa was. poor. and, lived: down on. the flits,_ and, sewed
around," told Mrs. John Bisbee that ".she mighty as well asks them
right out t, make upa.set. and gqa. 'em to.,her.'
buth, from the-turn affairs were.taking, began. tQ fear:that.her=
poteges wo dd- be left, out, in the, cold, and she ventured.very
modestly to oheerve;.
1 I-a&amp;wenoAt. .better get some clothing ready for the.poo. chil.
de, and; gather them into, the Sunday school, before we conclude.
upon any fancy. work.'
Nobvdys seemed. to pay much attention, andall talked together,
till .Nrs. Gold mith, whose practical. sense, scouted the. idea of. a
fair, as,her purse collapsed at the.outlay, took up the.topic 'in.. her
lammering, way..
" Yes, 'indeed, _Ruth. Blair,; that's . the, most sensible thing I've
heard yet ; we hadn't .best look ahead toany show doings, till we;
hayq accomplishedasornething. worth.m neetin' for  The. firstsobject
of -thisoci ty isstated; to be '.clthing the poor. and i foronae:


$         WIDOW- GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER,

move that we adopt the constitution' and stand up to it ; and it
would, be well for each one on you to give a little good strong
cloth all round to, begin with. I've brought along some blue cal-
ico that I caculate to give, and I see some Tanning on the table.
Now Imove, that instead of talking till pitch dark, we go on and
elect our.officers, and set to work. There's cloth enough here to.
keep. us busy all the afternoon, what there is left on't, and more
too."
"She wants office, I'll be bound," said old Miss Pettengill to,
Mrs. John Bisbee. -" That's what she's arter; peculiar, I should
say. Law, how folks can "
Mrs. Goldsmith's advice was put in force ; and though Mrs.
Deacon Williams had achieved the presidency she coveted, she
looked somewhat- glum at little Mistress Ruth, seeing that a prop-
osition should have found favor which emanated from so small'a
rill, instead of rising from herself, the fountain-head. Everybody
had brought their thimbles, and as Mrs. Goldsmith set immedi-
ately to work in her new office of first directness, and cut away
slashingly, after her manner, all fingers were soon employed; and
the talk was broken up into couples and triplets among those who
happened to be neighbors.,
The young element clustered together in one corner, and little
suppressed giggles and 'chirping voices showed how merry they
were. With young-girl sharpness they were keeping up a run-
ning comment upon everything that was done and said 'among.
their elders. Now I don't know how you may feel about it, but
I must say I always love to linger near a bevy of young maids,,
albeit they are still in the juicy period when Byron has accused
them of smelling of bread and butter, and listen to their fresh
voices, their chuckles and ripples, and blithesome gushes of merry
laughter. About everything, apropos to nothing, nomatter how
trivial the subject in hand, no matter how trifling the remarks
upon it, the:laughter rings out as clearly, and falls as- pleasantly
as rain-drops on a fountain.
Among these village girls there were the usual contrasts in color--
ing, in size,:in outline, but' all just now, at least, looked- happy
and good-humored.

Little Zoe Walsingham had eyes as dark as a star-lit sky,.hair
as longhand shining-biack as a young Seneca squaw's, and, a.clear
nut-brown skin, which had felt the free play .of that south :wind,
the rapid companion of Orion's setting ;; and a vigorous, springy
little figure, fitted to climbing the breezy=hills, and exploring the
hidden ,shelters of her dearly-beloved. Roaring River. As she
moved her pointed brown fingers pliantly and nimbly in the sew
ing, her tongue was also in merry motion, her eyes. sparkled
with mischievous} light, and: her white teeth showedlike bits of
purest ivory between her red lips; and she laughed in notessas
liquid as a bob-o'-link's song. Sabrina Bradshaw sat beside her:
A face like clear marble, every feature fine-cut and perfect. and
hair of that wondrous lustre and dark richness which looks like
molasses candy half pulled ; it coiled about her head in rich
braids, which suggested sunshine. I never saw such -eyes as
hers. People called them black, but when you looked across
them they had the liquid red of a. deep carnelian, shaded by
lashes that lay a thick curling fringe on her cheek, when they
dropped under your too earnest look.' She laughed in four or
fivA notes, each rising higher than the last, and all soft, clear,
tuneful, sweet. This .Sabrina was the daughter, of that Alice
Craigenfells who in the game of cross-purposes played by those
young people so willfully, had given her whole heart to Frederic
Goldsmith, and her hand to excellent Peter Bradshaw, of firm,
stable manhood, like a rock to lean upon; to whom she had al-
ways been the one precious and priceless treasure, to be worked
for. and sheltered and adorned. Her first-born son she called du-
tifully., Peter, though the, secret wish to give him the beloved
name of her early monarch,. lay unspoken at her' heart., t'
when the little girl came, and Mr. Goldsmith strolled- over from
Brookside, on that golden summer evening, to:.make his congrat.
ulatory visit to his cherished neighbors, with the large friendship
he so lavishly bestowed upon- all his boyhood's. friends, and; his
little pet Alice in particular, =all unknowing the heartpang she
covered so bravely from all the world ; he had a book in his 'hand,
with his-finger keeping the place='

a"
WIDOW , G OLD SMITH'$ D , ,:ZTC "UTERo          16


170           WIDOW    GOLDSIITfl'S DAUGaIIRa.
"Alice," said he, "let us give a name to the pretty youngling.
What say you, Peter, may I choose it?  I believe it is getting to
be a hobby of mine."
"I like-Alice pretty well, myself, but Posey says she won't
have that repeated:in the family."
"I am sure you have thought one for us, Frederic," said Mrs.
Bradshaw; " pray let' us hear it," a faint red dyed her :pale
cheek, her thin fingers played nervously among the golden fringe
of her cashmere. Pure-hearted woman, true and loyal wife, as
she was, she had not in all these years learned to bear his pres-
ence with steady heart-beats.
"These are the lines," said he, "and this the name:
"Sabrina, fair,
Listen, where thou art sitting,
Under the glassy,:cool, translucent wave,
In twisted braids of lilies knitting
The loose train of thy amber-dropping hair;
Listen, for dear honor's sake,
Goddess of the silver lake ;
Listen and save.
By all the nymphs that nightly dance
Upon thy streams with wily glance,
Rise ! rise, and heave thy rosy head
From thy coral-paven bed;
And bridle in-thy headlong wave,
Till thou our summons answered have.
Listen and save."
Alice listened to the voice as in a dream, and honest, sturdy,
steady Peter liking the sound of the flowing verses, and the sweet
maiden-hood they praised; and besides, heartily admiring the-
artist-gentleman, so unlike himself, nimbly agreed ; and the maid
grew and flourished, and bore gracefully her name, " Sabrina,"
and also the " amber-dropping hair."
About five o'clock, Mary Ann; Williams made her appearance,
accompanied by her school friend, Belle Brandon, and the little
rustle their entrance occasioned, showed that Belle was an object

WDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.         171

of interest or curiosity. She was about sixteen, and a very beau-
tiful blonde, and had already learned to make the most of her
infantile plumpness, and charming:dimples. She knew full well
the way to set them off with childish artlessness, and also how to
ingratiate herself with people she believed could be useful to her.
She was an orphan, dependent upon an uncle, who was educating
her, as her aunt assured her, for a teacher; and Belle made faces
behind her back, and vowed she'd see her further first. How-
ever, the educational process was so far perfected as to iuake her
perfectly'-au fait concerning the uses and value of money. She
had learned to bow with becoming deference to the aristocracy'
of wealth. It was one of the things upon which her aunt lav-
ished her eloquence.
" You must get a rich husband, Belle ; the older the better,
and the sooner out of the way. I saw old Soapfut Silverpenny
looking at you last night at the opera, (and mind you don't sit in
the front of the box again, or you'll stay at home, uncle or no
uncle.) I wish he would take you off my hands ; if you are not
smart enough to manage an establishment for yourself, you must
trot. I'll not be bothered by a great girl like you, hanging on
and costing money."
" Why Aunt Isadore ! You surely can't mean the old codger
who used to peer down the area railings, when you made me sew
in the basement with that. dreary Miss Thrifty, who sneezed so,
and 'said she'd a ' rose cold id- her dose.' -He used to ogle me
with one eye shut, and -say 'soap-fut ?' inquiringly, and when I
shook my head he shook his, and said, 'no, ye's got none because
ye's aits en.'"
"The very same," replied Mrs. Brandon, laughing at Belle's
odd grimaces. "He's a millionaire now ; has a palace on the
avenue, and servants in livery, and would make you a capital
husband, and I would come and superintend your receptions and
breakfasts."
"Thank you, aunt," Belle replied demurely. "ITll come out
first; if you ,lease. I think I can secure a better parti than old
Silverpenny; if I get the chance."  And she secretly thought,
"I'll manage my affairs, too."


172        WIDOW GOLDSMITH 'S DAUGHT e,'

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      Id13

Old Soapfut was invited to the house, and Belle was presented.
to hii; but as he did not rise to the bait she was to have another
year of schooling, as much to keep her out of the way as any-
thing. She was. amazingly quick-witted and sharp under her
gushimgness, and had picked up plenty of showy accomplishments,
and much superficial knowledge at her fashionable schools, and
he reeled it off glibly upon occasion, and had also gotten all the
tricks and, habits which girls are morally certain to take on when
they are huddled together, the bad with the good, like the wheat-
field; and most rank and destructive are the tares fond parents-
are forced -to reap oftentimes, and gather into, their harvest for
the :ctop thus planted. She could throw billet-doux from her
window with unerring aim, and counted it good fun to out-wit and
evade her teachers, and flirt with young men .of, whom' she
scarcely knew the names. She could say sarcastic things of
school-mates less fortunate 'than herself, and enjoy their suf-
ferings under the lash of her ridicule. . She could cut a friend
without a conscious blush, if it happened to jump with her humor.
It will be seen-that she needed little more finishing to come out
an elegant woman of the world, fitted to adorn the politest circles;
and she had besides quite a repertoire of foreign ternris of endear-
ment, which were very telling in her hours of confidence. This
was the first time she had been in the country, except a week or
so at some watering-place in the long vacation, where her uncle
insisted that she should be .of their party, and carried the point
in'pite of his wife's unwillingness ; and she assumed a.good deal
of' grandeur, and found much enjoyment in the eclat. her appear-
ance created, and counted upon inspiring awe in the hearts of the
young people with her airs and style. She had struck up an
ardent friendship last term with her adored Mary Ann. A sad-
eyed, subdued, nothing-in-particular girl was the adored, who had
been much chastened during her tender years by her-loud, over-
bearing:mother, whose system of training was pithy-and econom-
ical-ta wo-d! and a blow, the blow :coming first,
In sdma families the government is,. "'Come do this, darling,
because it is right. because you. love me ;" but Mrs. Williams

would none of this sort of discipline ; .hers could be heard and
felt. it " sounded like applause," often, but it left a stinging be-
hind
As we were' saying, after having examined Miss Williams'
wardrobe, and ascertained that her father was a.factory owner,
kept a carriage, -and by skillful angling fished up all particulars
she wanted, Belle Brandon immediately froze to her, entered her
on her list of friends, and here she -was,spending the summer
with the adored, who was a plastic tool in her hands, which man.
'aged her skillfully as the ants do their aphides, and laughed at
-her all the time. She hugely enjoyed -the constant struggle she
saw in the Deacon's household,' between the desire to be magnifi.-
cent and the inherent meanness of its portly mistress, whose won-
drous constructions of the English tongue, and her browbeating
management of her weazened little husband, tickled her sense ,of
'humor ; all such enjoyments she covered under a bland, outside,
and the Deacon's wife was in the habit of considering her a good-
ish sort of .a' young person, rather simple, but desperately at-
tached to Mary Ann.
. Meanwhile, she has stepped gracefully across Ruth's parlor,
threading her way between the chairs without seeing anybody,.
and dropped into 'a -seat with - an air of studied indifference.
Childishness .not being her role this afternoon, she was a trifle
supercilious in her replies to the polite remarks offered by those
near her ; .and -she carelessly scanned their. dress and:personalities.
'She evidently intended carrying the- Millville people by storm,
and extinguishing them at once. Ruth sat down l her and at-
tempted conversation, in her quality of hostess, but she got only
nionosyllables in reply :; she had observed the, plenishing, had
heard that George Blair was a journeyman, and evidently con-
sidered the little woman 'very small deer indeed. She afterwards
found -occasion'to change her opinion, and her conduct accordingly.
'Mrs.-Williams looked her over, her handsome dress, many-
flounced and ,richly trimmed, harmonious colors, and air 9f fash-
'ion, and called out, in her coarse voice, pitched loud enough ,for
.l l to hear:


1 4       WIDOW GOLDSMITR'S DAUGHTER.

- "Here, Belle, you and Mary Ann come right along here and
set down your names to the constitution, and pay in your sixpence,
or you won't be allowed to stay and see the fellers in the eve-
ning."
Miss Brandon rose "in graceful haste," and smiled, showing off
her blue eyes and dimples, as though - the joke were of the
choicest
" She knows what she's about, I'll be bound ; 'tain't to be sur-
mised that she likes that talk, but law ! don't she .look peaches
and creamy?" remarked old Miss Pettengill, that tiresome old
maid, who was so absolutely left to herself on all social gather-,
ings, as to have nothing -else to occupy her except to "keek into'
either folk wi' nice and sly inspection."
- Of course the first appearance of this showy young stranger
formed a theme for animated discussion among the talkative cor-'
ner-Cluster, who, by the way, were not in the least subdued by
her graces.
"Tit sure she looks rosy enough," said Susie Jenkins; "I1
thought she was in, delicate health. They say she never steps
her foot out of doors without putting on. her veil and her gloves:
and she sleeps in paste for her complexion."
"I think she is very handsome," remarked Sabrina, decidedly.
"But how she hitches up her shoulders!" said Irene Bisbee.
" Don't it look as if she did it on purpose ?"Y
" Oh, ye poor benighted ones ! are ye not aware that that is
the fashion?  Mrs. Williams says she has got.the true Grecian
bender," spoke up Zoe Walsiugham.
"I'm sure she is authority on the Greece question, but the
kind she knows all about is spelled with an s."
" Miss Zoe," said Miss Pettibone, "let me remind you to culti-
vate repose of manner; you have exuberance of gesture, though
all ae graceful. And do not criticise -too -severely those older
than ourselves. Every one cannot be expected to be as pufficly
-fastigious as we are who have been carefully educated. Our ex-
cellent President was necessitated- by adverse circumstances to
spend her early years in a vulgar round of occupations, aptly

WIDOW t4OLDSMITEI'S DAUGHTER.            175
called 'grubbIng,' not a choice word, and one I should not reconi-
mend you to employ, but very appropriate to this case; and she
naturally finds it difficult to free herself from the trammels of
habit, and mount with her rising fortunes. Consequentlysh
continues to save odds and ends, and grasps after fragments as
assiduously as the man witl the muck rake collected his rdic-
ulous treasures, to whom Christian was introduced by Mr. Inter-
preter. You remember what Diodorus Siculus says on the force
of habit."
"No, I don't," said Zoe, iknpatiently. "Do please, Miss Dul-
cet, to leave out some of the big words this afternoon.. When
we get a half holiday do let us feel as if-we had got one, and
peace be unto those tiresome old wretches. . You always-seem
ever so much older when you talk school-ma'ami."
" Oh, Miss Dulcet," said Sabrina, quickly, "mama tied up a
charming bouquet for you, and bade me bring it, and I forgot it.
She says nobody appreciates her flowers so delicately as you;1
think it is because you know all about them. Our botany class
has been delightful."
Miss Dulcet,.who had drawn up in rigid' silence, and with a
very red face, smiled gratefully at Sabrina, and thanked her with
much warmth.
"Miss Dulcet," said Zoe, dropping down from her low chair on
to her knees in front of the teacher, and clasping her, hands on
her lap; "nay, you shall look at me ; that great brother of hers
(pointing to Sabrina) has promised me a couple of Polish fowls,
jet black with. white top-knots; I'm going to bring thera to your
mother."               -
She smiled one of her wicked, daring, bright smiles at Dulcet,
which demanded forgiveness for her petulant flippancy, and was
sure of getting it. The sharp-featured spinster bent over the
piquant little beauty, and kiss d her pouting red lips with a half
sigh after her own lost youth, which Zoe understood as well asif
she had put it into words.
"What dear, nice, slender 4hite hands you have, Miss Dulcet."
She held her own brown digits beside the one she had seized. I


f6     '    WIDOW ;GOLDS ITHl'S DAUGHTER.
ophesy thiat this fingerwill have a new4plain gold ring on be-
fore'long."
"Miss Zoe,, you know I am pufficly fastidious on those topics,"
murmured Miss Dulcet, bending over her work with a well-pleased
snile; 'ard shejfervently hoped that Zoe might be found among
the'prophets.a
"Girls," shid Susie Jenkins, "we polished off Mrs. Williams
handsomely,with Miss Dulcet's help, and v have still spare time
before the 'tea equipage' enters. What do you think of Mrs.
'owing as a text?"
44There is not enough of her to talk about ; a character to afford
ititeresting matter to commentators must have salient' points. If
yott' had proposed her husband, the theme would be worthy; how
he could ever tie himself up to "that piece of putty, I cannot im-
agine," remarked Zoe'
'Perhaps that was one of the matches spoiled in the transit
rt in the celestial to the terrestrial," suggested Dulcet. "lave
you never observed' that taciturn ladies choose garrulous gentle-
men, and garrulous ladies admire taciturn gentlemen ?"
"She had got that speech by heart, and had to fire, it off
though it doesn't hit this case in the ,least," whispered Zoe to
Sabrina, who shook her off impatiently, afraid Miss Dulcet might
hear and  be-hurt.
"«The fact'is patent," said that irrepressible, not in the .least of-
fended bySabrina's snubbing, rather enjoying it, in truth. "The
fact is 'patent, brilliant men are afraid of being eclipsed,; they dare
not undertake a real smart girl 'for fear they won't' be looked up
to, and made of.
TSay;on," said Sab-ina, much amused, "you have evidently
4ufnedthe subject over. How will you manage your sposa ? give
us the benefit of your mature cogitations."
"have not' made up my mind to take a sposa, yet," retorted
oo, 'napping her black eyes.- " One thing is ,'certain, I' won't
have a stupid husband ; I intend to look up to the man I marry;
he :iest be;able tokeep 'me inorder."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'SYDAUGHTER.              177
"What do you call stupid?" said Sabrina, looking at herewith
an odd expre,-ion on her face.
"I'm sure it is very plain English," replied Zoe, perversely.
" Stupid, dull, common-place, tiresome, sluggish, uninteresting,
red-cheeked; I can't abide red-cheeked men."
" Very lucidly explained, thank you," replied Sabrina, haugh-
tily
"Yes, Miss Bradshaw," said Zoe, chuckling inwardly, "serves
you right for trying to pump me."
" Well, girls," remarked Susie Jenkins, "I think I should like
best a husband who will pet and take care of me; brilliant intel-
lect is all-very well, but kind ways and words are better. Ibshall
be called ' duck,' as Ruth is."
"Sensible to the last," spoke up positive Miss Bradshaw. "A
husband who would be always talking about something' you can't
understand, and. absorbed in matters too high for you to peep
into, would be a horrible nuisance;' a poor girl so mated=stands a
thin chance for happiness; she is' pretty sure to bide at home,
minding the children, while the brilliant intellect who owns her is
abroad at book-clubs, or adorning the drawing-room of some wily
creature who has nothing better to do than to entertain-him, and
keep him away from home, where he ought to be ; and the poor
wife, the working partner in the matrimonial firm, gets faded and
pale, and hasn't much to say when she does venture into society;
and the world looks on and exclaims, " Poor man! his wife is no
society for him.' She has pern'iitted herself to fall back, and has
degenerated into a mere domestic machine, while he, being one
of the 'dominant minds,' has gone -onward and upward. And
nobody looks for the cause ; nobody sees the poor woman, over-
taxed, bending under a load of petty cares, all her powers con-
suned in wearing household duties; which are as inspiriting as
the tread mill to the convict. Oh, no! the world" has only eyes
for the ' dominant mind,' who sails' about with This cigar int his
mouth, his spotless wristbands, about which he has scolded his
patient drudge till she was fain to weep, in full display, and
thinks himself terribly ill-used if anybody mentions business to

I


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

him before ten o'clock in the'morning. Deliver me from such
bondage."
Good gracious, Sabrina, you are evidently spearing some-
body ; 'impaneling. him with knives,' as Mrs. Williams said of
the Chinese jugglers. - Who is the wretch ?"
"That's my secret," replied Sabrina.
"Well, I am safe in saying no 'dominant mind' will ever make
a household drudge of you, dear Lady Disdain."
I am quite sure of it," replied Sabrina, loftily.
Ha! ha!" cackled old Miss Pettengid, "do hear the pullets
crow-! Of course, my pretty dears, you'll each and every one of
you carry off the husband you set up to get; just take your pick,
snare 'em as they do partridges. I've heard pretty much that
kind.of talk afore in my day; not §o hifalutin, but meant much
the same; and I've lived to see the game played out, and the dif-
fer:ence is curious. Girls air peculiar; hear 'em gabble about
getting married.. Law, you'll live all on you your appointed time,
if you don't get tacked on to anybody. Bless the pretty mop-
pets1 they've mislaid their rag-babies, and are' wishing for hus-
bands: He! he!",
What do old women wish for? A cup of tea, or a nice bit
of scandal, I suppose," said Zoe, flippantly, resenting her inter-
ference.
"As pert as a cockatoo, I declare for't. If you or Sabriny was
to ask your ma's if they got the ones they wanted, what do you
suppose they'd tell- you? I knowed 'em afore you was' born."
With this parting shot, old Miss Pbttengill dotted over to Belle
Brandon, who regarded her as a natural curiosity, and greeted
the old creature's attempt to get talk out-of her with a supercili-
ous stare.
All this time Christabel Goldsmith sat apart from the other
girls, with 'Pigeon' on her-lap, her eyes fixed on her mother, half-
'bent;, diooping, forlorn. It was difficult to identify her with the
animated, happy talker who had been so sparklig and joyous up
at Craigenfells. The fact is, she had been looking shyly at the
gay cluster in the corner-their pretty toilets, easy attitudes, and
satisfied ways-and mentally comparing herself with them; and

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S - DAUGHTER.

179

the old bitterness had sunk deep into her soul, and the old: angry
resentment was corroding like a sore at her heart.
"Why is it that my mother, who certainly is .charitable, and
can be loving, for she dotes on Chandos,.must be so hard to"me?
I wonder if I am ,not a changling; there must be a reason for my
being so out of place at home. Why won't she send me to school?
She says I am silly and romantic and good for nothing; she never
seems to like me to have any pleasure. She does not talk that
way to Chandos, and he does nothing useful that I can.see ; he
likes much the same occupations that I like ; she has no right to.
make such a difference between us. If he would work part of
the time, I could bear it better. I ought to. study; my father
loved me to do it, and would never have tired of helping me on,
but I must give it up. I thought I had, and here.I am, going all
over it again."
Two great tears coursed down her pale cheek, which had- a
right to be round and rosy, and she bent her head over Pigeon,
and sobbed, forgetting where she was, and who.might, be observ-
ing her.
The excellent, pious matron who shouldhave .been the first to
see the great burden lying on the poor, crushed little heart, and
the readiest.to lift it, (else what business had she to take on na-
ternity,) never thought it worth while to watch the secret work.
ings of the rarely gifted soul struggling to unfold under her dreary
shadow, even if she had the capacity to do it. Poor Chris was
forced through a round of daily tasks, whieli might have. been
made pleasant to her with different overlooking, and afew inter-
vals of kindly granted leisure .forthe occupations she loved. The
all work and no play system took the life out of her, and she
chafed under it, tormented by her conscience, if she did not openly
rebel.
Proper Mrs.,Goldsmith, all unconscious of her daughter's mus-
ings, sat erect, nicely dressed, her straight line of mouth and
sharp, black eyes as unlike as possible to the flexible, mobile fea-
tures that made the father-look so harrowing to her sometimes.
She believe in total: depravity of the stiffest kind, and looked

178


180        WIOw GOLDSnsITH' DAUGHTER.

'rdently'fotward to the real 'ire and brimstone which should
swallow up all who dared to walk on any 'other crack but the one
she had her feet on. Regarding in ,perplexed horror the day-
dreams and artist {moods and= disrelish :for sewing-work of-the
gifted ciid:as  something very like'crimes, she preached her creed
in esoi and Out of season; and she might as well have tried
hei hand at making a useful barn-fowl out of the purple and gold
huhnmirigh-ird. She worked zealously 'to uproot the noxious
weeds and to 'plant her hard thrift in its' room. As she could
iever'make head-against 'her husband, who answered her preach-
mentswith'a quibble,:and laughed' good-naturedly, even when she
'made'her favorite declaration that the devil desired to have him
and sift "him las wheat, and'= took his own way easily and quietly,
as though shewere not, and carried his darling with him, she was
fully and perhaps vindictively set now to bring her, as she said,
"into the traces."
The teamm of talk ran rapidly in Ruth's parlor. The barrel-
Chair came in for plenty of comment, and Ruth was called on
minutely to describe the process of manufacture, and each of the
1ndies present had already secretly planned to duplicate it, and
httd. in their mind's eye a cosy nook in their respective homes
"which it might fill and adorn.
Mrs. Williams soon tired of so much praise of a thing in which
she had no part, and started a 'new topic. Throwing back her
broad'cap-strings, she remarked in her loud, domineering voice:
"SamRipley got home last night, but Guster died afore he
fetched up. I should think he must have been dreadful mortified
to get there' and ' find him dead. That is the way it is; we are
cut up like the grass, and throwed into the oven., It'becomes us
all" to say with the Psalmist, ' Behold, he shall make my feet like
hen's feet, and make me- to walk upon mine high places, to the
chief singer upon'my -stringed instrument,'"
"Which Psalm is that, Mrs.,Williams? I should like to read
the whole of it."
-Luckily 'she didn't hear you," said Sabrina. "Zoe, you carry
off the palm'for unblushing effrontery."

WDiOW GoLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              181
. can't help touching the old lady up once in a while; she's
always saving spiteful things -to me."
Just then Sonsie Eagn,(who had arrived shortly before and
taken up Ruth's service as if she had been born in it,) came,
bearing some clean maple sticks to replenish the fire, and a great
tortoise-shell cat bounded after her, brandishing his mottled
tail, permowing and dodging in and out among the petticoats,
till he singled Christabel in her corner, 'and then jumped
fea lessly into her lap, and curled down beside Pigeon, (Who wel-
cored him in rare glee,) and commenced washing his face with
his left paw, being very particular about his ear'and whiskers.
"Christabel!" called out Mrs. Goldsmith, who recognized the
voice of her 'enemy, and frowned. "What did you let that nasty
rep-tile come with you for ?"
"I did not let him, mother. Rainbow goes wherever he likes.
I did not know he intended to come here ; he never said so."
Though Chris managed to speak up for her pet, she blushed to
nher ears, under the raking fire of eyes which this reproof brought
upon her.
"Turn him out immejetly !" ordered the dame.
"Oh my dear Mrs. Goldsmith," put in Ruth, coming to the
rescue, "we all love Rainbow; he has more sense than half the
folks. You see Pigeon is of my opinion; do see him kiss him!
and how well the splendid fellow bears his pulling and squeezing,
never offering to bite. - Rainbow, did you come to play with
Pigeon ? well, you are -a, fine gentleman, and always welcome in
good society."
The girls all dropped their work,, and rose-up in a 'bevy like
young partridges in a meadow, and flew and settled about Chris-
tabel, and began to squeak and squeal, and exclaim in all the
tones of the: scale, using 'all manner= of superlativesexpressive
of .admirat'dn, and ,lavishing 'caresses ujoa the lordly monster,
who received their attentions with autocratical politeness, and
permitted them to examine his double paws, almost powerful
enough for a Bengal tiger, and to stroke his glossy fur; only
whisking his pointed ears with their tassel of hair on the tip, like,

,1


182

WIDOW GOLDSMLTU'S: DAUGHTER.

his Egyptian ancestor, which sparkled and snapped with electric
fire. Rainbow's debut was, a decided hit; everybody laughed
when he climbed away from his admirers,:and seating himself on
Chris's neck, reached his paw around and patted her little ros
ear, and kissed her cheek. - Mrs. Williams looked on sorely dis.
pleased at the tableau of admiring attitudes that instantly routed
itself, and observed:loudly-,
" Cats is rather curious critters, that's a fact. I should say tha
great Tommy looked more like a wild beast than he does like a
cat. Did you know they eats grass ?"
As this observation was launched at Dulcet, she replied :
"1 scarcely think that ee;n be the case, madam. The fls do.
mesticata is a carniverous animal, like its cousin the fells catus,
or wild cat, which is sometimes said to be indigenous to Ireland.
Maxwell, in his 'Wild Sports of the West,' has accounts of a
savage breed of cats who did a great deal of mischief. and con-
siders them the true fells catus. Our fells domesticata is sup.
posed to be descended from the fells maniculata, which was do-f
mesticated in the homes of the Egyptians, and also was embalmed
by them. Our cats were imported into Greece and Rome, and
thence into England, and were of course brought over in the
Mayflower to our shores. I have no doubt myself that they par-
took of the soup which was cooked in Miles Standish's dinner-
pot, which is so choice an ornament of the historical collection."
There is no telling where Dulcet, would have .stopped, so
delighted was she with an opportunity of displaying heiknowl-
edge, had not Mrs. Williams broken in upon her.
Well, it ain't no sort of consequence where they sprung from.
I don't count the whole bilin' of 'eni worth -a continental dog's
tail, myself; I won't have 'em round my house. The young uns
they fetch home a kitten once in a while, and beg to keep it, but
they don't never grow very well, and I generally have lax kill
'em; he just as soon do it as not.".
The girls. exchanged indignant glances, and Zoe spoke up
pertly:               i

-WIDOW GOLDS)1TH'S DAUGHTER.             183
" Why Mrs. Deacon Williams! I 'wonder you don't think of
he wickedness of wasting so many cats; you are always talking
about saving things."
"How do you know but Rainbow is an Egyptian cat? Ie
certainly is large enough. Would he not look nice stuffed, Chris-
tabel ?" said Sabrina.
Christabel fidgeted and hid her face on Pigeon, and pretended
not to hear ; but Sabrina was determined, ands went on:
"Unless you can prove to the contrary, I shall always consider
him an Egyptian. I mean to put him into a mesmeric sleep and
find out all about the pyramids, the next visit he makes Pauline."
" Rainbow is more like a pampas cat," said Chris,,fighting her
shyness, but still busying her hands among Pigeon's curls.
"That is a new kind of cat; dear me, I had no idea there
were so many."
"Did you say pampered cat, Christabel ?" asked Zoe ; "because
I think he not only looks it but is it. Dick and his two sweet-
hearts make no end of fuss over him."
"I said Pampas," answered Chris, " the people of Buenos Ayres
call it gato pajero, because it lives in the reeds-and long grasses ;
and the English residents term it 'jungle cat.' It is yellow and
brown, like Rainbow, and indeed the picture resembles him
closely."
" Do they tame that race of cats ?"
"I think not; they devour the birds and poultry, sometimes,
but do not love humanity."
"They are all the same kind, only some have never been
tamed; a -cat is a cat, and nothing more," said Irene Bisbee.
" There is one difference in their making up, which always re-
mains a.difference, and proves that the races are distinct. The
domestic cat will sometimes -run wild, and get savage, butt al-
ways keeps its' long, slender, tapering tail, through ever so many
generations; and the tail of the felis catus is always short and
bushy."
" Where did you find all that out, Christabel ?" asked Sabrina.


WIDOW GOLD'M ITII'S DAUGHTER.

1B5

"1 read it in St. John's 'Wild Sports,' and many amusing anec-
dotes, also, about=hunting. It is a good book."
"I must have it directly," spoke up Zoe.
Mrs. Williams looked sourly at the group over her eye-glasses.
She'was a::little-afraid of Zoe, but she crossed her stout legs so
as to make a better lap for her sewing,.and waving her right foot
in the air, 'she pursued her remarks, having no'idea, as she after-
wards said to Belle, of beipg ' put down by a passel of giggling
minxes."
"Law, it's the easiest thing in the world for noodles to, laff,
ain't it ?" she remarked in a stage aside to Mrs. Hitchcock.
" Sometimes they -laff the wrong side 'of their mouth." Then
turning to the young ladies, "That's right, girls, glad to hear you
talk about something besides fellers, even if it ain't nothing but
Tommys. You keep your eyes open and you'll know about lots
of things after a while. I was allers. dreadful, noticeable about
animals and such. When I wasn't knee-high to a grass-hopper I
watched the sheep and pigs, and was to home amongst 'em. They
say every dum critter knows what is good for 'em, and what'll
pizen 'em ; but tain't so, for sheep eats ivy, and it kills 'em some-
times. - What do you think of that, girls ?"
"' I think they must be very silly sheep, not to know what is
good for them."
"Not a mite sillier than some girls I know of," retorted Mrs.
Williams, sharply..
"Don't look so at me, Mrs. Deacon Williams, please," said
Zoe ; " I feel sufficiently quenched."-
Dulcet came into the conversation just in time to dampen the
flame of the irate lady's wrath, which wicked little Zoe delighted
to kindle.
"The ovis was always accounted an obtuse animal,' from time
immemorial; but we have many curious anecdotes of their clever-
ness, and indeed they display as strongly marked idiosyncrasies
as individuals of the genus homo. For instance, I read of a lamb
who could not endure solemn.. music, but delighted in dancing-
tunes. It had the deepest detestation for 'God save the Queen.'

WIDOW GOLDS3IITH' DIAU-HTtR.

and would 'baa, baa,' to such an unlinited extent, that the musi-
cian was forced to desist from playing it."
Mrs. Williams changed legs, and yawned, and ostentatiously
took out her watch and struck it, to show that it was a' repeater,
ignoring the old clock in the corner, which was conscientiously
ticking off the minutes,' with the fire-shine shooting red gleams
through the little round eye, and lighting up the dark cell where
the pendulum was fifty and one years before doomed'to perpetual
imprisonment, like a "lifer " in his cell.
"I expect Mrs. Deacon Williams wishes tea was ready,"' whis-
pered Zoe, loud enough for her to hear ; a payment for the stage
aside that matron had addressed to the Esquire's wife.
She turned and sent a scorching glance upon the fun-lighted
face of her sharp little tormentor,-"and she thought 'within herself
how she would long ago have taken "the kink " out of her; and
unconsciously looked at her own Mary Ann, who was sewing with
a very quiet, sober face, in the immediate neighborhood of the
handsome Belle.
"That's 'the way to fetch 'em up, whip it out-of 'em." With this
self compliment she addressed Mrs. John Bisbee,
" How's Miss Mullicorn, to-day, Miss Bisbee? HDave you
heerd ?"
"Suffering terribly; Dr. Jenkins and Dr. Killall were both
there this morning. They say her nerves are quite unstrung."
"Nerves! there ain't no such thing as nerves. What nonsense'!
finikin women get lazy and make up a fuss, and call it nerves.
I don't care a tinker's darn for doctors, myself; I never make
no use of 'em."'
"And pray, madam, what designation would you employ to de-
nominate the sOat of sensation?  I shall be delighted to hear you
elucidate your ideas. I always encourage the;dialogistic 'method
among my young 'pupils. I consider that it enlightens the tene-
brousness.-- Even the Arbacus Pythagoricus is best acquired by
question and answ er.
" Tell us ye winged winds what that may be!" ejaculated Zoe.

%01

0

i
.,

184

i


186        WIDOW GOLDSMITH's DAUGHTER.

"That is the multiplication table," said Chris,,so :tickled as .to
forget herself.
"What makes you think so ?" asked Zoe, turning.saucily upon
her.
"I don'tthink so, I know it," replied Chris, reddening.
"Hugh,'" interrupted Sabrina; "Mrs. Williams is going to say
something else. She swallowed down those big words with her
eyes on Miss Dulcet, as if they were pills and she the doctor.; and
it must be confessed that our excellent teacher has a great flow
of language."
"Well, Dulcet, I do stand to't, there ain't no use in nerves;
the things we want is cords, and cords we've got-.no more, no
less.-
Ruth seeing Zoe's eyes. brimming with mischief, and fearing
what she might say next, remarked, glancing out of the window:
"It is almost time for crocus blooms; I see some of mine are
peeping up their heads."
Here Mrs. Williams was at home. What she did not know
about flowers and their culture she considered not worth acquir-
ing. She had a fine garden, with straight walks and well-kept
beds, and she worked in it herself, and thoroughly enjoyed the
labor. She had the rare skill which belongs to some females,
aid which seems like magic; whatever .she planted lived; what,
she sowedcame up and grew. Her beds were always well-stock-
ed; she begged' everything she saw, of pretty or rare ; no enclos-
ure- was safe from her for miles around. She would start out in
her buggy on long pillaging excursions, and return .laden with
spoils. She had a sly way of shaking out a few seeds into her
palm, when the gardener's back was turned, and pinching off little
slips from precious plants, and she chuckled hugely when she saw
the fruits of her industry take root and send up green shoots, and
unfold fair blooms. Such blossoms were- especially dear to her.
"I got some new flowers up- at Craigenfells last fall; they are
bu-tiful, but the old fruzzle-headed gardener was - so stingy I
couldn't make him give, me but two. They've got pereni-um tops
and bieni-um roots. I sot 'em out in the same plot with my wild

WIDOW GOLDSMrITU s DAUGHTER.             187
turnips that Bax dug out of Bradshaw's woods. They've got a
curious blow onto 'em; the botonical name-of them I suppose I
needn't tell you, Miss Dulcet, is Jack in the box."
'Ihis time there was such an irrepressible tumult of mirth
among the girls that the angry lady turned on them a withering
glance, and got red in the face; but they all seemed engrossed
with Pigeon and Rainbow in a group on the floor, and she was
fain to swallow down her wrath, and resume her sewing.
"We talk of having a Sunday school festival fourth of July,
ladies," remarked Mrs. Bisbee. "Don't you think it is a good
plan ?" (reaching over to borrow Dulcet's scissors.)
"I don't, for one," spoke up the. Deacon's wife, before anybody
else had a chance to speak. ."I don't never attend nor counte-
nance none of them theoratical performances."
"I dessay the girls would like the festible well enough," said
Mrs. :Hitchcock.
" Will you go, Chris, if they have a sociable ?" asked Sabrina.
"No indeed," she answered, smiling a little; "it would be a
stig'able to me ; I never go anywhere."
4.I declare," said Zoe, " I consider that woman as good as a
play. I hope she will come every time. I would not miss ,her
for anything."
It was getting too dark to see to sew, but none of the gentle-
men had arrived except Mr. Growing, whose duty it plainly was
to be everywhere and blandly encouraging everything and every-
body, and, George, who hurried home from the forge as early as
possible, to help his little wife through her tea fight. The repast
was all prepared and set out on the dresser in. the kitchen; as
there were too many to sit at table, Chris, after much urging,
consented to help Ruth carry it around. --Mrs. Williams,;who had
kept a watchful eye upon the proceedings, rose, when she thought
they were about ready, and stalked majestically across the room,
and with her face adjusted to solemnity, she laid an impressive
hand on Ruth's arm, busy with pouring the fragrant tea.
" Mrs. Blair, if you please, I think it best to do everything de-
cently and in order. As president of this society, I consider it is


188           wIDoW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
my plainduty to invite Mr. Growing to have divine service be-
fore you pass the supper."
Ruth hurriedly set down her bright tea-,pot and stared, with
perplexed gaze.
":Say grace, I suppose you mean, madam," suggested George,
who was at Ruth's ,elbow, putting lumps of sugar into the cups,
inexpressibly tickled, but beaming upon the portly lady with Vhe
blandest of looks ; "certainly, if you desire it."
4"I don't see how we can look to have our labors sanctified un-
less we act up to our lights."
"Very true, Mrs. Williams, piously put, highly  commendable,"
replied {George, politely. Then turning to Mr. Growing, who, if
truth must be told, had been controlling his muscles with difficulty
during this colloquy, but had -not succeeded in keeping the mirth
out of his eyes, which would laugh in spite.of him: "You hear
the request, brother Growing."
Mrs. Williams, determined to be in it, rapped on the door-
casing with the buck-horn carving-knife, and said "silence!" and
then covered her eyes with her handkerchief, still grasping the
murderous weapon with the other hand, as if she were an assist-
ant priestess, about to slay the victim. Mrs. Hitchcock and Mrs.
John Bisbee nodded at each other, and then shut their eyes and
-mouths tight together ; and old Miss Pettengill- said "suttinly,"
and frowned 'darkly upon Zoe Walsingham, before elevating her
bandana.
As soon as their orthodox scruples-were properly laid to rest,
the ladies all spread out their handkerchiefs upon their knees, and
waited;impatiently for the advent of the tempting good things
they coould see heaping the dresser.
"   able -dictu/ 'exclaimed Dulcet Pettibone, when Chris
reached her with her tray filled ,with tea-cups. f' What-a vener-
able -collection-! Where did Mrs.'Blair rake up or disincarcerate
'such a puficly dilapitated set of crockery? I thought all her
plenishings were neodarmode-;- she hag not yet inhabited her dulce
domurn a double twelve month."

W1DOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.,-\     184

".I don't feel quite competent to reply to your remark, Miss
Dulcet, but I will venture to say that I think these',cups:look as
if they had been in the ark, and Noah and his wife had had their
tea out of them," said Zoe.
Chris, amused out of her shyness, leaned forward, and commu-
nicated the information that they were lent to the hostess' by Mrs.
Deacon Williams as a particular favor. The girls looked at each
other and burst out laughing.
" What upon airth air you having so much fun about over
there ?" called out Mrs. Williams, in a loud voice intended to be
jocose.
" Oh, we are discussing earthen-ware," replied Zoe.; "moraliz-
ing upon the fact that good-for-nothing 'old tea-cups are sure to
last forever, and choice vases and etched glasses are the oies fated
to be smashed. 'Youth's forward slips death soonest nips.' "
"We are going to play at proverbs after supper, Mrs. Williams,
and invite you respectfully to join us, mucko en el suelo poco en el
cielo," said Sabrina' lifting one of thecups, and smiling at Chris.
The young girl looked wistfully into her eyes.
" The earth is very beautiful," she answered in a low voice,
and half unconsciously. "'And God saw that:it was, good.' I
could enjoy much here ;" and with her thoughts so set afloat by.
Sabrina's proverb that she almost forgot where she was, she pass.
ed mechanically on.
" Sabrina," spoke up Zoe, "that it-a charming sentiment which
you just now uttered. I. coincide fully ; that is, I suppose I do."
Mrs. Deacon Williams had already tried so manybouts with.
the fearless young element, who had'no respect whatever for:her
house or her horses, that she thought it safe to tilt no more, and
she turned and began to talk at Mrs. Growing about the'female
prayer-meeting, which that reverend lady {never attended for fear
she 'should be called upon to lead the devotions, and told her what
fault was being found with her for her remissness, and, what other
short-comings she could l5ring to mind, in a christian spirit of
plainness which was truly edifying;


190        WIDOW GOLD MIT's DAUGHTER.

Chris and her tea-tray had reached the sofa by the window,
which Belle Brandon had chosen: as a convenient sitting to display
her ample silk skirts, and also as a tower of observation, whence
she could command the passers-by, anddetect the earliest arrivals
of the beaux, through the shadows which were softly settling
upon the March day.
The:new comers at Craigenfells were already much talked
about, and Bertha had .received visits from the Roaring River
set, who made haste to call,, with the ready hospitality which they
were accustomed to practice on their side of the' dividing water,
and it was understood among them that the Groenveldts were to
be Ruth's guests for the evening.
Belle speculated much upon the brother, whom, (if he. answer-
ed her expectations,) she intended immediately, and as a matter
of course, to appropriate. "There is no doubt of my ability to.
do it," she thought, " though- they say he is traveled, and learned
and handsome, and cares nothing at all for young ladies. It wilL
be fun to teach hiin to care  I shall have to have a lover for the
summer at any rate. I am certainly the most distinguished look-
ing girl in the room."  She glanced uneasily across at Sabrina
Bradshaw, and even took piquant little Zoe into her mental bal-
ance. Poor Chris here created a diversion in her thoughts, being
awakened from her abstraction by the sound of her own name,
and her tingling ears caught the tones of that wicked, thoughtless-
young maid commenting on her appearance ; and she remembered
for the first time that Ruth had sent her to bi-ush her hair, and'
she had plunged into her beloved " Recollections" instead.. So
absorbed and flurried had that young matron been with her prep-
arations that she had forgotten Chris's dress till just before the
ladies arrived.
" There, dear, you must go now and get ready," she had said,
"put on your satin, and the apron, you know."
Just then Pigeon awoke and began to scream.
",What shall 1 do?  I wish Sonsie Eagan would come."
"I'll take him into your bed-room, Ruthie, a little while."

WIDOWGOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.               191
"I am afraid you must, Chris ; set him on the bed, and put -up
your hair nicely, and you can run home and dress in a few min-
utes, you know."
Presently Ruth came up. "Now then, Chris, run 'for your
life; your mother has just come."
" She has locked up the place, then, and it will be of no use
to go."
"Ask-her for the key, of course. Come here,. my boy, see your
scarlet dress."
Chris dreaded to obey, and made up her lips to entreat Ruth to
get it for her,; but ashamed of her cowardice, she went slowly
down stairs, and sidling awkwardly across the room to her moth-
er's chair, she preferred her request in a very timid voice.
She got a peremptory "no " for reply. "I ain't agoin' to run
the resk of havin' all the doors and gates left open, and all the
pigs and cows in the neighborhood swarmin' in, and rootin' up my
things. YQU was drefful' possessed to get over here, now stay.as
you be. Set deoun in the corner there, do!"
Whenk Ruth came in soon after, with Pigeon in her arms, rosy
and sweet, he reached out for Chris to take him, and his mother
resigned him, without giving a thought to her friend's appearance
in her stress of anxieties.
"For mercy sake, girls," (this was what Chris heard,) "look
at the show that is going around the room. Hark ! the dogs
should bark, for the beggars have come to town; that is, the rags
and shags, the velvet gowns still linger. Why don't that girl
button up her dressaand do up that mop of hair in a christian
way ; it looks as if the. rats had nested in it before they were
wanted for coachmen. I would either curl it decently, or I would
cut it off, and my head with it.; I would, so."
" Hush, Zoe'!" said 'Sabrina, angrily, coloring up red, in sym-
pathy with the crimson shame which flushed our Chris's cheeks.
The poor girl heard you; rude, unkind, unfeeling ! Let me tell
you, she has got piles of learning stowed in that head which you
ridicule,'that you never dreamed of, nor~ever will! . For my part
I admire her; I never passed' a half hour in her company in my


WIDOW: GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

life, when, she would talk to me, that. I did not. learn something
worth knowing, and feel my own deficiency and inferior acquire-
ments, and resolve to make more of my time. I shall hasten and
offer to help her carry that heavy tray, to. show that I have no
part in your ill nature."
"Good for Sabrina, the fair," laughed Zoe, merrily. "It is
really worth while to have you for a friend, you take up the
cudgels with such heartiness; I shall from this time cultivate you
assiduously."
Poor Christabel heard the attack but not the defence, and she
turned a hurried and alarmed glance upon her mother, who was
looking holy daggers at her* And though Sabrina, rose hastily,
and approached her, she was not i time to avert .the catastrophe,
for in her confusion she, stumbled over a footstool, and pitched
forward -blindly, and away went the tray, tea-cups and tea-into
the elegant folds of shining sills so gracefully disposed ,to receive
them, and down went Chris amongst the ruins.
Belle Brandon sprang to her feet, forgetting all her, town-bred'
airs of nonchalant grace, and in a good hearty rage that there-was
no mistaking, she exclaimed:
"Stupid.! Can't you stand up, What on earth are you dream-
ing of? . You have ruined my dress, careless animal! I wish you
was in Jericho among the rams-horns and broken pitchers, with
your horrid old tea-cups !"
Just at this inopportune moment, when Belle was shakig~g off
thedebris, andshowering the, tea upon the fallen figure, which she
regarded with blazing eyes, the door openedgd.admitted the two
people she had been watching for, and busying her thoughts over,
and for whom she had arranged a .pretty programme of bright
speeches and winning smiles ; and in the instant that followed,
she swiftly -calculated her chances of missing her entre to the
Craigenfells by her ill-humor.
The tall brother sprang forward at once to. Chris's.rescue, and
assisted her to rise.
"'How did thishappen ?" he asked,,with a face of the utmost
concern. *" You were ill; you have cut your face," he added, in so-

low 'a voice that no one but Chris heard; the words. .:You are
very pale, Sappho ; don't faint, I shall have to carry you in my
arms, ifs you do."
Just the ghost of a smile played about his mouth, and lighted
his grave eyes, when she tried to jerk herself away from him.
"Letme go, Mr. Groenveldt,, if you are merciful. My self-
love has got a horrible blow, otherwise I am not in the least
hurt. I wish I had broken my neck, and turned the lowcomedy
into high tragedy for these grinning spectators. Pray. let me go
and hide myself."
Springing tears blotted out the composure she was struggling
for, and she flew rather than ran through the kitchen, into Rgth's
pantry, and 'threw herself upon the floor in the corner, SQ boiling,
over with mortification and anger that she felt only surprise Mhep
she noticd4d blood-drops trickling down her face, dropping upon
her sleeve, and realized. the fact that she had: got a 'woud ,pon
her forehead.
- Miss Brandon's face was a study.* It was like magic ,the way-
she smoothed the sourness- out of it, and arrayed it in radiant
smiles, bringing all her dimples into action. -Ruth came forward
with a sympathizing face and a towel, offering-condolences and
apologies, and Sonsie Eagan gathered :together the debrisupon
the tray, and puffed out her cheeks and looked fitto, burst J4,irer
amazing effort not to appear intensely tickled. When ?Belle hd
wiped away the tea-stains, she restored the towel. iti thaks,
and a merry laugh, and tossed off her. blonde, curls,,and Wade a
gay speech aboutcasualties, in a rippling, childish=voice; lyl she,
covertly studied Mr. Groenveldt, vainly-trying to dsoveo how
much of her. rudeness he had heard.
Mrs. Williams meanwhile had risen from, her chair, up in
h md, and .come over to inspect the remains. She.looked aeress
Sonsie, who was on her knees busily at work; the crash of"crocl-
gry °sgunded ominous of her loss.;.. and without bestowing a
thought upon the soiled silk of her young gypst, or poor hris-
tabeltwretchedness, she exclaimed, her face waxing blacker ad
blacker:

192             W:Dow- ,GOLDS1%JiTH'S d.D. .UG11T]T .


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"I shall expect you to pay for them are cups, Miss Blair ; they
was air-loombs, handed down from' remote posterity, and real
Chinese chany. I bought 'em at Abiathy Askew's auction ; he
disported 'em himself by ,asea cappen. All his things was nice;
I wouldn't have took nothin' for 'em."
Everybody listened in surprise, while she harangued thus right
eloquent, and the little hostess, catching her husband's eyes brim.
ning with suppressed fun, while he softly clapped his thumb-nails
in infinitesimal applause, laughed heartily in spite of all her well-
bred struggles to the contrary, which was a signal for the girls to
strike up, and everybody caught the infection. Sonsie, standing with
her head thrown back, and her arms akimbo, led the laugh in her
corner, with an earnest enjoyment which was irresistible. Even
Mr. Growing had his share behind his hand, where his wife could
not see him; and old Miss Pettengill st-ruck up a malicious cackle
that was raspingly aggravating. Ruth made the best haste she
could to smooth down her features, and assured Mrs. Williams
that the breakage should certainly be made good as far as possi-
ble  and that irate lady sat down muttering her favorite remark
about "giggling mixess" and -bit the rest of her indignation into
her biscuits and butter.
The little fracas over, Belle procured the desired introduction
to Otho. and exerted herself to be entertaining. She was piquant,
artless, and gaily talkative, and the grave student looked down at
her in curious amusement, as if she had been a pretty, animated
toy. His eyes wandered often in the direction of Chris's flight,
and when Miss Brandon had finished her supper, he politely took
a: ay her plate, carrying it. into the kitchen. In answer to Ruth's
smiling gesture, he opened the door and peeped into the young
miiaid's retreat. She was-crouching in the corner, with her face
in her hards, and at first wonld not raise it to look at her visitor.
ke found a way, however, to bring her to terms; she could not
long bear his half-teazing, half-comforting talk, and did finally
look up with Rcrimson cheeks, and troubled, angry eyes.
- Chris mourning-for the tea-cups, and refusing to be comforted
because they are not," said he, with a whimsical smile. "Will

rnot your life-course be something erratic if you dart off thus in a
tangent at every little mishap ?"
"I ought to be thankful to be able to afford entertainment," she
spoke up hotly. " They had a gay time at my expense; I heard
then laughing, and I wished they-would choke over it. I should
like to know what I was born for."
" Should you, Sappho ?" replied Otho, in a tone of amused
banter. " I think I have found out that secret. When you dwelt
in Lesbos you lived to write lyric pieces, elegies, and hymns ; the
Lesbians placed your image on their coins as that of a divinity ;
but the Lesbians were old fogies. If you will come out of this
place now, like --a good child, and promise to reward me well
hereafter, I will some day reveal to you the mystery and object
of your existence. You must be obedient and tractable, how-
ever; the first step is to come out of this."
"But I cannot come out; I could not face those. laughers--it
is just impossible ; I shall not try it. I shall dwell here among
Ruth's pickles and preserves."  She looked up at the rows of
pots and jars on the shelves above her.
" Will you not be reasonable, and take my arm, and walk out
with me,?
"Certainly not ; I have reasons plenty as blackberries for stop..
ping where ,I am, and cannot think of one which would induce
me to show my face among those selfish people. I shall tarry by
the stuff."
She-heartily wished that he would take himself off and shut'the.
door, and leave her alone ; very likely she showed her thought in
her face, for as she moved impatiently, he said:.'
"I think it is my plain duty to seek out Ruth and apprise her
of the dangerous neighbor her jam-pots have ; but no-I can do
better. Here are entering four young men, fresh from the bar-
ber's, their lovely curls parted down the middle, and their dress.
coats in spotless perfection; -suppose I were to walk up to Mr.
Blair and ask him to resolve them into a committee to come and
fetch you."

194

\195


.wWW G0LDSMfI  I S DAUII rTER.  X197

196w       WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

" But you would note do - so: unheard-of a thing ; it would be
simply shocking."
"Just try ine,-then; If you are not out of this charming re-
treat in:three minutes, I will beckon our host and make the re-
questf; you know him well enough to understand how nimbly he
will jump at 'the suggestion, arid, how good fun he will count it."
Ile took out hiswatch and, regarded it attentively. "One rmin-
ute gone.!. Miss Christabel. This, little trial will be an experi-
enee for you; you will hereafter be able to form a slight idea of
the feelings of a. condemned prisoner who' awaits his execution;
a minute-and-a;half! how rapid is the flight of time ! we take no,
note-of it but by its loss."
She darted an eye-beam at him, wondering if he meant what
he said, or were only laughing at her ; he, certainly looked very
much in earnest; his face grave andquiet, his down-cast eyes in--
tently- fixed on the, repeater-which lay in his open palm. Chris
began to fidget and feel afraid of him. She sprang up hurriedly.'
"I'm .going,. Mr. Groenveldt," said she; "let me pass please."
"Not in such mad haste," he' replied,, calmly. replacing his
watch ; "we have'still a half 'minute to spare, and will go togeth-
er."  Then changing his manner, he added, kindly, "Your face
is' bleeding,'dear Chris; the red drops have dyed 'your cheek with.
bright incarnadine; come, take my arm, I will convoy you safely
to the stair-case, which luckily is a short journey, and behind the
crowd, who are busy with Ruth's tea."
He kept his word and dismissed the shame-faced girl, who so
foolishly dreaded the gauntlet of eyes, at the door, saying with
decision, but also with the 'greatest courtesy:
"'I shall' expect' you immediately, and' shall remain here till
you descend," and kept his eyes upon her face, and his hold upon.
her hand,:till she gavethe required promise...
When she descended,: the girls gathered around her, and told,
her 'about Mrs.,Williams, andsaid what fun it was ; and Miss Zoe
cid herbest to make:upforher thoughtlessness, butChris could,
not look at her, and Sabrina sat down by her and took her hand.
She was comforted, and quiet, and she glanced from time to time

gratefully at Otho, :but she could not unlock :her tongue because
they wished it.
All the young gentlemen -were by this time arrived. - Peter
Bradshaw came up to Zoe Walsiugham, as if she were a magnet,
'and she commenced her favorite amusement of teasing, and per-
plexing him. John Hauxhurst, a noble honest fellow, writer at
the foundry, and a great friend of George Blair's, -and -Irene
Bisbee's brother, and the clerks from Starbird '&amp; Iedlow's' came,
and the girls were all wide awake and unconsciously looking-their
prettiest. Dulcet Pettibone had particular reason to be satisfied,
for Capt. Slocum drew his chair up to her, and gallently com-
menced a conversation. He being a rich old bachelor, and worth
angling for, though he was a little rough at times;and indulged in
hard words, not always admitted into ladies society, she bit her
lips to make themred,-and sparkled up her eyes, and all her little
curls quivered, she was so lively and animated. Pauline Brad-
sbaw and Gracie Jenkins, who had, up -to this time, been amus-
ing themselves with Pigeon's mechanical playthings and puzzles,
of which his father manufactured untold numbers, (popping jacks,
dancing puppies, walking dolls, building:blocks; and dissected pie-.
tures,) now came sidling in, hand in hand, in'search of new amuse-
inent. They had tasted of everything Ruth had for ,supper, and
-had tomato figs, and candied calamus, and had popped corn -on
the shovel, and cracked walnuts besides.
Dulcet, thinking it would be a telling thing to do, drew Pauline
up to her, and seated her-on her lap, saying:
"=I love little girls, Pauline! Won't you come and live with
me ? I shall want somebody to take care of me when I am on
old woman."
Pauline who had no fancy. for promiscuous petting, glanced
sharply up in her thin face, and replied concisely:
"You are an old woman now."
Poor Dulcet, deeply chagrined, pushed her quickly off her lap,
and-said in a faint.voice:
"-Go child," and she secretly resolved to keep as far fromt
l'enfant'terrible in future, as -Ciroumnstan c, 'wowld"


198           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
"Why, you awful child I" whispered Zoe, "how could you be so
unmerciful to poor Miss Dulcet, when she was sweet on you ?"
"hBecause. I was not going to stop on her knees, and listen to
Usher dry cackle."
But there was another arrow in r*- ;rve for the spinster. Cap-
tam Slocum asked her what she w,  going to do with all that
trimming .she was weaving, and offered to patronize her, by buy-
ing some to trim his clothes, and she did not hear him, so busy
was she in wondering what he thought of Pauline's 'speech, and
if she seemed old to him, and old Miss Pettingill called out to
her :.
I would take something for my deafness if I was you, 'Dulcet'
uPettibone, it grows on you."
She found a friend where she least expected one, for Pauline
walked up, and set her feet apart, and crossed her hands irl front
of the taileress, and said:
"I know of some folks who'will shiver and shake for fear,
when Miss Dulcet dies of old age."
I must shake you! you little wretch," exclaimed Zoe, under
her breath, exulting over her, " You knocked the old lady flat
that time. Where did you learn that nice speech ?"
I heard Aunt Melinda say so to Uncle Jethro," replied Pau-
ine composedly, "when he told her she had crows-feet; and she
did'nt have either, for I got right directly down, and looked to
see, and her feet were just like everybody's, only bigger, but
was'nt she hopping mad at Uncle Jethro, though ?"
For a' time Belle Brandon sat apart, making sly remarks to
Mary 'Williams upon- the. assembled company, more for her
own amusement, than the adored's, however, for she listened with
a stolid unappreciative face, but when George: Blair assembled
the young element in the kitchen for a game of steamboat, he
came up and asked her to join them. She looked in astonishment
at the handsome giant, who stood before her with his grand, sim-
ple air, and clear truthful eyes, his easy fitting suit of black, and
;his white handkerchief inhis well shaped hand, and listened to
his request, framed in queer, nirth-provoking words: she could

WIDOW GOLDSMiITH'S DAUGHTER..199
not believe -that this was the journeyman blacksmith, so slighting-
ly mentioned in the Williams .family. She glanced from him to
Ruth who happened to be looking at them, and rose instantly and
with an eager erpresse manner; and walked away with him.' She
ot a seat in the circle next him, and opposite to Otho, who had
Chris. by his side. - Bertha had found her exact niche among the
Roaring River girls, and fitted it as well as if her infancy had been
cradled in the mad music of the rushing water. Dulcet Vetti-
bone maneuvered for a seat next Captain Slocum, and got placedl
to her liking, (we don't all accomplish that, more's the pity,) but
her success and her pleased wriggle gained for her a spiteful sniff
from old Miss Pettingill, (who seemed to watch her narrowly,) and
a stinging allusion to "fishing and pushing," which wound up in
" how folks can." Belle Brandon opened her armory of bland-
ishments ; whether the fact that the magnificent giant at her 'side
was already appropriated, made him an object of especial interest
to her, or that h massive beauty, and cheerful, cordial easy ways
plea sed her, I cannot say, but at any rate, 'she lavished beaming
looks and pretty talk on him unsparingly. George listened and
answered, and laughed enough to satisfy and -inspire her, and they
chatted so merrily, that Ruth looked on in astonishment. He was
playing with a bracelet, which he held as forfeit judge. Belle
extended her arm to take it from him; their eyes rested on each
other, both faces animated and glowing; be caught her little.soft
velvety hand,' and held it an, instant. She did not then withdraw
it, but he put it gently away, and could not avoid seeing that her
arm, from which her lace sleeve fell back, was round and creamy
white and beautiful, and he freighted the steamboat with " Belle
Brandons," laughing into her eyes as he did it, and she did not
resent the liberty. You see George had taken the tea-fight into
his own hands, and was carrying it off gaily and gallantly. His
lively nonsense and odd jokes were inexhaustible, and the Roar-
ing Riverites aided and abetted him; they were always delighted
when he would join their frolics. They had a proverb, "to the
brave belong the fair," and Peter got Zoe Walsingham for his
prize, and Dulcet hoped that Captain*'Slocum would get' her but


WIDOW GOLDSMITr'$ DAUGHTER.'

fate crossed her wishes, and bestowed her upon Jasper Bisbee-
John Hauxhurst thought of Sabrina Bradshaw, who had been talk-
ing with him, and had old Miss Pettengill, who indignantly re-
fusedto come forward. ."'I ain't a playen," said she, "one old
maid in the ring is enough," and George got BelleBrandon, who,.
being instructed in her duty, rose with pliant glace, and knelt at
his f etin a touching attitude, to receive from his hand her charge,
and hei badge of service.'
"Ho will you'like being my shadow," asked Otho of Chris,
who had fallen into line at his side. "I shall do some tremendous
feats, which will put your strength and temper to proof."
"tam not afraid, sir. You know you are to be trusted, and
will not subject my faith to too rude an ordeal."
Ii'the novl gymnastics which followed, Belle Brandon shone
unrivalled. Nothing could surpass the lightness and grace of her
movements, and she -kept her blue eyes fixed upon her Caudillo
with'the melting gaze a Circassian slave might give her lord. In-
deed; the game took a new character in her management, and
the other players left off to watch her, and when ordered to dance
"iiola," she put a climax to the surprise by accepting the
clothes-pins which her Caudillo offered her for castenets, and going
through tlhegraceful steps with the springing grace of 'an Anda-
lasida1.
"Why, Belle, I never saw you do anything like that before.
I thought you despised te play games."
"Cela depnd," replied Belle cooly.
B"lut'where did you learn those figure-dances."
"Atdaicing'school of course. I did not suppose I should ever
use them-again, however. Ciel ! what compliments, what bouquets
Jnot for then once, but I was in 'short petticoats then, I-wish I
had been tonight, the feet and andces show;so nicely."
Iar Ain looked as much shocked as she dared, and Belle
watkeliputo+her Caudillo, and thrust her hand within his arn
as ailay sa'if she belonged to him. for life instead of the brief
u r'tioftftheir ame.
Ruth lhad  spleidid husband ; 'he was helping her through

 12 0 0  /

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER. '            201
with her tea-fight, making it a perfect success. She ought to have
been very proud of him, and a happy little wife. Yet for some
reason, there was a cloud upon her face, and instead of joining
the games as was her usual pleasure, she hung back among the
matrons, who had not nearly finished talking up the parish.
Mrs. Growing feeling obliged to .go home directly after supper,
her husband accompanied her, though he looked wistfully out -at
the gay group in the kitchen, as if he would have liked better to
tarry and enjoy the music of their fresh young voices, than tosit
up in the disorderly nursery, and rock to sleepthe last baby ; a
task which was sure to be in reserve for him there. But his
helpmeet had no idea of leaving him behind her, and frowned
virtuously upon George's invitation to him to return.
The departure was the signal for a particular attack upon them.
Mrs. Growing's method, or rather want of method, in man-
aging her household, and the financial affairs of the family ;
their borrowing propensities, etc., came in foray severe handling.
The whole illustrated and embellished by such little personal
anecdotes as had been collected by the 'good ladies since their
last assembling together.
" Did you see the new silk basque Mrs. Growing wore last
Sunday?   It had on lace half a yard deep, and satin piping, as
rich and trimmy as could be," said Mrs. Hitchcock. Adelezy
Euphemy sot right behind her, and the price ticket was'nt cut
off, and she tried all sermon time to make out what it cost. She
said there was a b and a g, and a queer thing that looked kinder
iike a hen coop atween them, and three figures. She asked her pa,
but he laffed at her, and said, Gonecusset prices was all he could
keep track on, but it cost enough, I'll be bound."
" I do not adequately comprehend how she can reconcile it with
the responsibilities of her position as Pastor's wife, to indulge in
eextravagance, when there are so many worthy objects ofbenefaction.
The government of her family does not surprise me, because all
persons have not the gift to command morigeration. If I should
ever marry a Pastor, I should think it my duty to appear only
in plain apparel, and chaste subdued colors, not that I ever think


202       WIDOW GOLtDSIITA's DAUGHTER.

of such a thing, or indeed about getting married at all. I don't
intend to be in a hurry, yet awhile," said Dulcet Pettibone, who
bad skipped airily in, and placed herself behind Ruth's chair in
a graceful attitude, which-she hoped was telling upon the Captain,
who she felt ought to be looking at her through the open door.
" Humph ! peculiar," muttered old Miss Pettengill, "such airs!
you.are so dreffulfjuvendle, I wonder 'you condescend to come, in
here amongst the old folks. You must feel out of your elements."
"Thank-you, dear Miss Pettengill, not while I keep out of
your neighborhood. Do let me arrange your front for you, it is
displaced to such a degree that it affords more than a glimpse of
what you design it to hide. I I am sent-in by the judges, who are
selecting a proverb for me to guess."  Just then the Captain came
up and gallantly offered his arm.
" We have been speaking about our dear Mr. Growing, Cap-
tain Slocum. I was remarking that I am pufficly fastigious in
sermons, and I consider his.as meat for strong men. Pray. give
us your opinion. I do admire so much your characteristic, sensi-
ble remarks, so original."
"They've got a live man, but they begin to talk about shipping
him off. .Then he's a natural builder, ma'am, just as much as a
beaver ? No sir, he ain't going to be ousted, not if I have ,to pile
up my subscription. When I hear the gospel dispensed with, I
like to get the worth of my investment. He works like a horse,
keeping a German class for'the young folks, and a debating soci-
ety, and a book club. I was'nt edicated too high myself, but I
like edication in others, and I know a scholar when I see one,
and I tell you Parson Growing is a scholar, and if there is any
religion, he's got the real stuff."  With this emphatic declaration,
he wheeled about like a corporal on parade-made a jack knife
bow-offered his arm, sticking out his elbQw,-smiting his breast
with a flourish as he did it, and Miss Dulcet smiled blandly upon
old Miss Pettengill, as she ambled away.
" Well I must say," grumbled that forlorn, unfortunate female,
"How folks can !"
"-Perhaps you are not aware, ladies," explained Mrs. John

WiDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.            203
I sbee, "that Mrs. Growing has an income of her 'own, and so per.
haps, she thinks she has a right to dress to her liking."
" Well, I'd put it into the family, instead of on to my lack, if
I was her,".said Mrs. Esquire Hitchcock. "I heard tell that they
was so put to't, that they hadn't nothing to eat for a whole week
but Injun meal and beans."
" Is Mr. Growing's salary punctually paid ?" asked Mrs. Jen-
kins, who, sitting by Ruth, had been an amused listener to the
talk.
Everybody looked at Mrs. Deacon Williams, who was supposed'
to be posted in church matters.
"Putty middlin, but they're so pesky shiftless about things,
they don't know nothin how to make the most of what they get.
No kind of cacalation, nor contrivance. If they had'nt but nine-
pence in the house, and that there Freddy cried for, candy, though
I don't spose he ever does, for he's a drefful old young one, but if
he did, they'd spend the whole ont. You can't do nothin with
such folks."
Old Miss Pettengill cut in here, and pitched her voice so sharp
that they bad to stop talking and listen to her.
" Our minister don't seem to think he has many pastural duties
to perform. He has'nt darkened my doors for mor'n a year. I
sent Martha ; you know I'm fetchin up Martha, (here she dropped
her voice suddenly into the lower register, where it grumbled and
rumbled in unexpected and astounding complications) my sister
Wilderkin's girl ; her father got smashed all to bits in the new
fangled horse reaper, up at Peter Bradshaw's last harvest.. I was
drefful lonesome in the old 'homestead after Ma died, ,and: sister
Semanthy went out a missionary. I ain't sixteen no more. I
ain't' ashamed to say I'm getting old,4/though some I could mention-
are timorsome when ages is mentioned. So I took Martha tofetch
up, and she's a lot of company for me. I was fryin up a lot of
nutcakes, and I got some on em kinder brownand I told.Ma'rtha
she might carry em up to the minister's, they had such a:lot of
children, they'd soon tuck em out of sight. I kinder wanted to
know how they did manage, I'd heard such queer things about


204          WIDOW"'GOLDSMITU'S DAUITER.
em, and I told her she might stay to dinner if they asked her;
but they did'nt, and as for the nutcakes, they did'nt hardly thank
her for them, and the girl took em out intothe kitchen, and I dar
say, that was the last they 'seen on em. ,I ha( to laff though, for
Martha said, there Mr. Growing sot, a feedin the baby, and she
was playin on the music. Should'nt you call that peculiar ?"
"I don't think much of men's baby-tending," said Mrs. John
Bisbee, laughing. "I get John up once in a while, in the night,
but he. stumbles over all the chairs and knocks things down so,.
and swears about them, so low that he thinks I don't hear'it, that
I am thankful enough to get him back into bed again. He thinks
he is a wonderful nurse'though, and I must say, the children dote
on him.""
The -ladies felt that Mrs. Bisbee was wandering from the sub.
ject, and kept to the Growings. They coincided in opinion that
the Pastor might do a great deal more if he tried; and as for his
poor wife, she came in for severe handling. It appeared that
there were numberless duties which she neglected, and a legion
of things which she did, which were altogether out of character,
and before they abandoned the topic, it was pretty clearly settled
that she was proud, haughty, idle, selfish, foolish, vain, ignorant,
extravagant, poor housekeeper, doting mother,. no kind of a wife
for a minister in any particular. Poor lady! how her sallow ears
must have burned ; if there is any truth in the popular belief, as
she sat before her "parlor grand" that evening. -.Whether
she deserved all she got, I cannot say, but one thing is certain,
the people did not like her, and unless-a pastor's wife is accepta-
ble to the parish, he may as well have an imperative duty call in
some other locality, for he works against time and tide, Mrs.
Growing had no particular sense of duty, was not learned in hu-
man nature, knew little of books, though she took the Ledger and
read all the poetry and stories in it. Her thoughts seldom strayed
beyond. the narrow bounds of her own affairs, but if she did her
home duties well, was not that enough to ask of a young mother
with five little children in her nursery ? The ladies complained
that she took pleasure in embroidering their small garments, and

WIDOW   GOLDsMITH's DAUGhITER.          2o
practiced a great deal on the Steinway which her father gave her,
and curled her hair, and looked out of the window, and in short,
did pretty much as she might have done if she had been Mrs.
Esquire .Smith, instead of wife to a Parson. George Blair, who
was -out by this time with Belle Brandon on his arm, laughed at
the earnest matrons, and said:
"Well ladies, I suppose Mr. Growing married his wife for him-
self, and not for his congregation, and if. he is satisfied with his
bargain, I don't see why they should kick up a fuss about her.
Don't you say so, Miss Brandon. You intend to be the light of
the eyes, to some good fellow one of these days, don't you ?"
Miss Belle tossed off her curls, and smiled gushingly up
into his face, and clasped her fair hands over his stalwart arm, as
if content to rest there. She did not seem conscious of little
Ruth's presence, though she saw her all the while looking at
them, and with a pang of unrest in her secret soul. Curiously
enough the laugh died upon George's lips, when he saw Otho
come in and go behind Ruth's chair, and whisper in her ear. She
rose and walked to the window with him, and the two talked to-
gether earnestly for a few moments. Whatever George's thought
was, however, he put it away from him, and returned to the young
people, with his eyes as clear and his face as unclouded as ever.
Everything must have an ending, and Ruth's tea-fight broke
up at last, not before she was heartily weary. Everybody was
delighted ; four of the clerks came up in a body, and told her
that the society was better than a full dress party, and they in-
t(nded to buy no end of pin-balls and pen-wipers"to encourage the
young ladies. Belle Brandon, after she had tied her sea-foam
picturesquely over her' curls, went up to her hostess, with both
hands extended, and exclaimed impulsively:
- "I've had the most delightful time, Mrs. Blair. I hope you
will let me come here often ;s I think you are so sweet. I shall
be in love with Millville from this very evening."  And she was
so sincere and so nauch in earnest that her blue eyes were full of
tears, and the rising bloom on her cheek n".de her aswinsome as
a rose-bud.


206        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S- DAUGHTER

" Chris," whispered Ruth, when the last were going, "you are
to stop all night; I have your mother's consent."
"Is the milleniun about to commence ?" exclaimed Chris, in
utter astonishment. "What did she say? flow I should like to
have seen her face when you propounded the audacious request.
I am sure it must have been a study."
"Never you mind, dear ; the fact is absolute ; and you are to
sleep with Bertha, and George has promised to tell us how he
came to be a blacksmith."
"Oh, that will be gorgeous! What a friend you are, Ruth."
While she stood with her arm around Ruth's neck, and her
wistful eyes fixed on her friendly face, Otho, who was to ride
'I'ramp back to Craigenfells, came and said, quietly: -
"Miss Chris, I want you; Mistress Blair has got to martha
about, now, and keep her house, and I beg you to come with me."
He led her into the parlor, where the cheerful wood fire had
burned itself into clear coals, and certainly looked pleasant now
that it was "curtained, and closed and warm," and opened Ruth's
piano, a real cabinet Pleyel,-which she had inherited from her
mother."
"Now listen, Sappho," said he, " I have been taking liberties
with your verses."-
He sang the trifle she had thrown off in her happy mood up at
Craigenfells, to a.sweet, riant air, with rich voice, and marvelous-
expression.
" Well, tenth muse," -said he, waiting for Chris to.speak, after
the last chord had ceased to vibrate'; "how do you like our joint
production ?".
He smiled significantly, when he noted that the great brown
eyes were full of unshed tears, and her flexible lips were trem-
bling.
"I cannot tell you," she replied in a low voice. "It is both a
pleasure and a pain; I wasso happy that day."
"Good;" he caressed his curling- moustache with grave satis-
faction. " Now you are about to play a duet with me."

"Oh, I cannot, I cannot, indeed," she shrank away hurriedly.
"You play so well."
"Of course .I play well; I studied to that end in Germany,
and I hope I" have not wasted my time. It is an odd reason-to
give for declining to play with me:; you surely would not enjoy
a' duet with a bad performer."
" I like perfection, but I haven't got it. No, Mr. Groenveldt,
please don't insist; I shall fail miserably; I cannot."
"You said you could not leave Ruth's pantry, yet you have
passed some pleasant moments in her kitchen since that positive
assertion. Come, here is a bit of Hernani; you shall take the
primo; I am not constitutionally fond of playing second fiddle,
but I shall benevolently permit you to be first soprano."
She made no further objection, and -let him seat her on the
music-stool, talking the while such gay nonsense as no one else
ever heard him utter, and placing himself at her side, they com-
menced. At first Chris's trembling fingers went astray among
the keys, and her color fled and came in crimson gusts; but by
the time they had turned the first page she- forgot everything in
the glad triumph the harmony awoke in her soul, and Otho stud-
ied her wrapt face, with the flicker of a smile playing about his
short upper lip, as with dilated nostril and flashing eyes she
dashed throughthe triumphant finale.
" There !" she exclaimed, dropping her hands into her lap;
"thank heaven, I have not forgotten; it has made me so unhappy
sometimes."
"2I felt sure you could play well, Sappho; I knew it intuitively.
May Iask who taught you ?"
" Papa," she replied, proudly.  "Dearest' papa taught me
everything; that is, I mean; everything I know."
" Come out of that, you two, we are to have a story; my
George is clearing his throat now in preparation," said Ruth, put-
ting her laughing face, from which the clouds were all lifted, in at
the door.
"The best laid schemes of mice and men
Gan, aft agley."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      -207
"     4


208

WIDOW GOLDSrITH'S DAUGHTER.

Ruth did not get her story, because before the players had had
time to leave the piano, there came a soft "rat-a-tat-tat" at the
piazza door, and Belle Brandon walked in, with a slender bamboo
rod and a lantern in her hand. She had her silken skirts tucked
up so as to show her neat Polish boots, and on her head a round
cap of blue velvet, over which was tied her long sea-foam, like a
white cloud, the ends of which were thrown picturesquely back
over her shoulder. She was all gushingness and dimples asshe
clasped her staff with rosy-tipped fingers, and struck a Rosalind
attitude. Mary Ann Williams, who followed her, was as white
as a ghost, and scared out of her wits. Constitutionally a cow-
ard, besides being full of hobgoblin beliefs, nobody but her bosom
friend could have persuaded her to cross the old covered bridge
over Roaring River, full of little whirlwinds and startling echoes,
so late at night. Belle laughed merrily at their amazed faces.
"Here we are, on the last edge of the evening, like fringe upon
a petticoat," said she. " I've lost my bracelet, and I could not
persuade myself to go to sleep till I had hunted it ; so we stole
out at the back door; Auntie thinks we are safe in bed, and I
have poked my lantern every step of the way, but haven't seen,
it.. I would have looked. more faithfully on the bridge, but my
Mary Ann got a fright and ran for her life."
"You mewed like ever so many kittens on purpose to scare ne
to death," retorted Mary Ann, sullenly. " It was enough to make
anybody wamble-cropped to hear the awful story you kept, on,
telling all the way ; and there was a peddler murdered on-that
bridge once, too, and here it is near twelve o'clock."
"You here, Mr. Groenveldt !" interrupted Belle, with a dra-
matic start, as Otho came out of the parlor; "I supposed you
had galloped over the hills and far away long ago."
"I am about to take leave, Miss Brandon,". he replied, quietly,
and with grave eyes. He had already bade good-night toChrista-
bel, and after kissing Bertha he went out. George followed him
on to the piazza, pulled his sleeve and; whispered to him. Oho
answered with a shrug and a head-:hake:

WIPOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       209

" Not in this bright moonlight; that young ladylis fully capa-
ble oftaking .her own part. She must excuse. me; too much
honor," and springing upon Tramp he galloped away and in a few
minutes was -clattering over Peddler's Bridge.
When George returned he saw Ruth looking out ,at the win-
dow after the horseman. She had iot observed Belle's scrutiniz-
ing study of her, nor the shade of impatience which crossed ier
face when Otho so coolly replied to her greeting. She however
did see the beautiful blonde walk up to her husband as soon as he
came in.
" Come, now, Mr. Blair, and help me look ; you've got such
big eyes, I'm sure nothing will dare to hide from them which you
wish to find out."
As she entered the parlor she cast a swift glance upon the sofa,
but she searched up and down everywhere before she approached
it. George was busily poking about also, and, she chattered no end
of cunning nonsense to him the while.
"Non est inventus. You see, Miss Brandon, our-parlor holds
not the jewel, for which I am very sorry; but don't spoil your
bright eyes about it ; such an arm needs no braceletss"
"Oh you little wretch! here you are," she exclaimed, flying to
the. sofa and pulling the turquoise circlet from the fold in the cor-
ner, where it lay nice and straight as if carefully placed in hiding.
"See, Mr. Blair ! is it not worth seeking ? I think my arm will
look no worse with it on."
George of course took it from her hand and accepted her invi-
tation to clasp it around her creamy wrist.
" I am so glad'; now I wish we had some wings, I and my
Mary Ann; would they not become her ?" she pointed laughingly
at her friend, whose face was still chalky white. "I don't think
we shall meet the peddler, dear ; if we do, I am sure we can out-
run him if you use your feet as you did when we came. Such a
figure as you were!"  She looked so merry and so charming over
the recollection that Bertha laughed heartily, 'and Chris fell to
studying her face as she would have done a picture.
"I cannot suffer you to return alone," said George.


210        WIDow GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"That's very nice of you. Don't be surprised, Mrs. Blair, if
he never comes back any more. I've always thought I should
like to run off with somebody."
While George was putting on his cap and coat, she sat down
to the piano and sang such a tender, bewitching ballad as held
them all charmed, and Ruth's eyes filled with tears. But when
she came up and bade good-night, the moving grace of her air,
and the beaming looks she bestowed upon George, filled the little
wife with anger, and she was vexed with herself for the feeling.
What else could he do ?  Here were these two girls, half a mile
from home at midnight. She tried her best to be reasonable, and
when Chris and Bertha had retired she sat down before the fire
and waited, and the time seemed very long, and her face was all
clouded over again, and when at last he did come, walking briskly,
with his square, firm tread; as if he enjoyed the moonlight and
the exercise, and whistling Belle. Brandon's song, Ruth wasin
bed and so sound asleep that she would not wake up nor answer
him; and poor child! her life ran in such a devious channel
afterwards that she never asked him to tell her his story again.

CHAPTER THIRTEENTH.
CHAR ITY.
THERE had sprung up quite a furor of charity in MilIille
for the Eagans. The widow showed .so earnest a desire to help
herself, that people were willing to aid her. Ths Claytons and
the Walsinghams heard about her, and sent groceries and fruits,
and Mr. Bradshaw and Peter went down with cabbages and pota-
toes enough to make an Irishman's paradise. Even Mrs. Deacon
Williams- hunted, out some clothes, and an old hat for Dennis.
The ripple $we led\ to quite a current; and Mrs. Eagan trimmed
her small craft and sailed down the stream in such prosperity as
was new to her. The clerks in the stores, and the writers at the
factory encouraged her with their washing, and she told Ruth,
smiling, that she felt sure now to be able to keep the babby.
"An' look at -lte legs of her," she added, triumphantly exhibiting
two mottled sticks about the size of smart pipe-stems. Sonsie
proved handy and helpful, and Pigeon endorsed her at sight.
Dennis got a boot-black's place in the Millville House, and the
whole family looked to Ruthaas guardian angel.
The three weeks which followed the sewing-society were very
pleasant weeks indeed to our Chris. She spent many of the
evenings by Ruth's cosy fireside, with her new friend Bertha,
chatting and playing, or sitting with folded hands in delicious
idleness, while George read aloud, and interrupted the reading
with amusing comments and artistic' explanations, sometimes
wandering quite away from the theme, into anecdotes and specu-
lations, such as Chris, with her- active imagination, particularly


212        WIDOW GOLDSMITH 'S DAUGHTER.

liked. She worked faithfully through the daily tasks, unflagging,
though her mother piled Ossiaon Pelion, because every gloaming
there came a deputation from the Horse-Shoe, either Ruth, or
Bertha, or George, or sometimes all together, to fetch her away
for a delightful reunion. However-much the irate widow wanted
to refuse, she could not find the way, for they knew how to con-
quer her ; and Chris was so cheerfully Tidiffereut to the daily re-
peated scolding, that it fell dead from the pinched lips which reeled
it off so glibly, and sometimes I fear it dinned into a sing song in
her unconscious ears, while her scarlet lips were wreathed in a
softsmile, and her truant thoughts were reveling amongheripre-
cious memories, or the, gaities of the Horse-Shoe. She did not
talk much on those happy evenings, but when pretty Bertha Gro-
enveldt put her two ars around her neck and kissed heir lips,
her cheeks would become suffused with a soft glow, and a 1ok ofk
ineffable happiness would steal over her, and melt. into her face
and attitude:,. the quiet joy of a soul at rest.
Belle Brandongot a habit of dropping in quite familiarly, some-
times accompanied by her adored, oftener. alone.; with what object
she best knew. Otho could not have been the attraction, for he had
gone away prospecting to Chicago directly after Ruth's tea fight;
a tried friend' of the dear old Professor having offered him half
his practice, as well as a partnership in the chemist's shop which
he owned. But at any rate, Miss Belle made herself very agree-
able, was witty and lively and amusing, with her stories about
Newport and Saratoga, and her aunt's town life and parties, hit-
tang off the peculiarities of the persons she described with ridic-
ulous force, and using 'her rare powers .of imitation. George
aided and abetted her, and she exchanged a gay badinage, with
him, to which Bertha listened in great amusement, and which
caused.Ruth to send troubled glances from the radiant beauty to
her stalwart husband, and secretly' to sigh, feeling old and faded
and quite quenched by contrast:; and she and Chris would both
get silent, and fall into reveries sometimes, while the other three
had. all the gay talk to themselves.

WIDOW, GOLDSMTITH'SDAUGHTER.              21
.OQer day, afterthe crocus were up, the two girls made a merry
visit to the old school-house, the flannel petticoats and. dresses in
their arms,,which Ruth. pointed out triumphantly to George as
the first fruits of the sewing-society. Sonsie, with rher headr up,
followed them,}great baskets of provisions in either hand,.gathered
among -the Roaring Riverites.-f- They were about to celebrate the
baby's safe recovery from. measles, and Mrs. Eagan; looked on,
all smiles, while they put her into a suit-Hof new clothes. .The
little waif would grow. and thrive, and get plump, in spite of its
inauspicious beginning. The place was scoured: and cleaned as
nicely as could be, and Dennis- had applied. his first savings to
getting, new glass for the. windows,and he and Sonsie had fenced
the small space before: the house with.short sticks gathered, out of
Bradshaw's woods,:and, trim little. beds were already sowed with
cabbages and onions, and the warm   light soil, where the sun
shone all day .long,[was a famous place for. their garden.
If the widow had kissed the blarney-stone, she had gotten also
a,grateful look into- hereyes,.and a. tone. of sincerity into her
voice, which seemed true and honest, and she bustled" about, set-
ting atable at which they were all to have upper together, with
a face which looked . contented and. cheerful. The children had
had their bread, and .milk in their new tin cups, a present from
Hauxshurst.   Mrs. Bradshaw sent them a; pailh of'fresh milk
every evening, now, and. Bertha. brought forth a vase, which she
had decalomanied herself from  a cologne bottle, filled with fra-
grant hyacinths, for the center ornament..
.     .e"tThere  they.. stood, and  there  they  grew,
Red, and white, and purple, and blue;
And some had hearts like a-drop-of blood,
And some like a drop of dew;
My beautiful, beautiful flowers."
Mrs. Goldsmith insisted that her blue calico should be bestowed
upon Sonsie, though Mrs. Williams said that them Kalihans had
a couple of young ones that was about naked, and Mrs. Gold-
smith had retorted with a sniff that she had better stir her stumps


214        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

and clothe 'em then, but this dress should go to Sonsie Eagan
anyway ; and that young lassie wasdn high feather over her new
toggery, and strutted about, with her arms akimbo, admiring it
over her shoulder.
"Isn't it 'decent, Miss'Chris? a small bit too tall for me; and
look at the puckers in the tail of it."
Chris laughed, and badesher take it off and let her put a tuck
into the skirt, while the kettle was boiling. Sonsie obeyed, and
sat down close -'to her on the floor, and anxiously followed the
nimble fingers with an eager glance.
"Indade, but I should like to sew like that," said she, sighing.
"It's like the merry birds that your little hands look, flying and
flitting, and you've a blush on your cheek like the dawn of the
morning, and it's pretty that you are, anyhow, altogether--as
pretty as beads."
"Sonsie, Sonsie ! you mustn't flatter," said Chris, gravely;
"'that's very naughty."
"And is it flathering that ye mane, Miss' Chris. It's thrue for
ye, I couldn't name it to the likes of such a sweetness; and you
so good to me. Just let me love you, that's a lady; I'm only a
coarse'little bit, that I feel, but the kind words, they melt into my
heart so, they make it ache- sometimes, when you and Miss Bertha,
speak softly and look a smile at me; sure and 'there's charity
enough in your eyes to keep the poor from starving.' You don't
know 'what'hard words are, Miss Chris; they cut like a knife.,
You don't know what it is' to be out on the streets, knocked about,.
starved, with never a friend."
Chris raised her humid eyes and regarded Sonsie curiously.
" The heart knoweth its own bitterness," murmured she.

CHAPTER FOURTEENTH.
THE CROSSING SWEEPER.
THE little talk down at the old school-house was' but a begin-
ning between the two girls, who were much the same age. Son-
sie developed a marvelous talent for story-telling, and Chris froze
to her while she narrated in quaint phrase their landing from the
great ship crowded with misery ; their heart-breaking ,struggles
and sufferings in that vast whirlpool of strangers which engulfed
them. Their poor mother sick, 'their father disheartened, and
silently enduring; when she and Dennis workegl and begged for
the rest, she did not say how bravely. And Chris's great eyes
brimmed over sometimes, as she followed their wanderings, and
her vivid imagination filled up outline pictures with painfultrials
of scoffing words and bitter, childish tears.
One afternoon, by special pleading of Ruth's, and a promise of
twelve button-holes, she had been allowed to bring her sewing' to
the Horse-Shoe, and Sonsie had been unusually graphic and heart-
rending in her reminiscences, Chris slipped away from them all,
and as Pigeon just then awoke screaming from some elfin dream,
and Ruth had to bustle about the supper, they did not miss her till
they were ready to sit down at table. Then' after calling in Vain,
George went peeping into the dreary parlor, scarce hoping to find
her, but there she sat, in a heap on the floor, after her usual fash-
ion when working out her thoughts. She had a sheet of paper
on her knees, above Ruth's great family Bible, and the penciled
lines on it were all blurred and blotted with her tears. She did
not hear or heed George, so far away from Roaring River, was
(2J5)


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

she, wandering and suffering in the heart of the great, p'tiless
city.
"Come, miss," called out George, in his hearty voice, laying
his hands on is knees, and stooping to have a good look at her;
"are you leaving yourself out in the cold so as to get accidentally
frozen to death ?"
Only deep sobs replied to him. Then he came closer, and'
lifted -her face.
"'What is ii, pretty child ?" asked he,.witi. hlarge-Hearted ten-,
derness.
" Oh dear," sobed Chris, raising her tearbluirred eyes, " I'm
so unhappy, sp dreadful! cold, starving, beaten.; no pity any where.
Only to die; that 'is all, that is quiet rest," she shuddered:
" Who ?" asked George.
"Fair, very fair ; hazel' eyes and golden hair," and she knew
what mother love was too ; before she- before they-"
" What's this?" asked George, seizing the paper.
" She used to be such a happy child. She came and alighted
on her mother's breast like a pretty summer butterfly. The ten-
der mother who had nothing else to love," continued Chris; giv-
ing up the sheet irresistingly, " and so good and merry. Oh
dear! oh dear !"
George looked at her a nioment-at her eyes which were fixed
on hisaface but saw him not, and her quivering lips: and took her
hands in his ; they were like ice, and lay passive in his grasp; he
raised her up forcibly.,
"1Come little maid, it is full time for you to come out of'this;
this won't begin to do, you know;" and he carried her as if she
1 ad been a feather-weight in his strong arms, out by the cheerful
fire, where she dropped into a chair, and covered her face..
George motioned to them to leave her to herself. "Come
here duck," said.he. "I expect I've got the key here."  Ruth
came up and leaned her hands on his massive shoulder, and looked
over the page with him while he read aloud.

WIDOW    GOLDSMITH'S. DAUGHTER.                 217
THE -CROSSING SWEEPER,
Her dress was thin and ragged and scanty,
Her pitiful eyes looked hollow and wan,
Her sorrowful features might have been pretty ;
If they had not been pinched, and squalid and dirty;
Every sweet trace of fresh childishness gone.
All day she had swept, intthe mud and the mire,
And her half-frozen feet had nor stocking nor shoe,
Though the bustle and din of the city surged by her,
Not a dime had she gained the weary hours through.
Each blast of the wind that fluttered her rags,
Showed her thin, naked limbs, haggard and blue ;
But she still plied her trade, on the slippery flags,
Though the day was all gone, and it chillier grew.
A gentleman crossed; she asked for a penny,
He called her a beggar; thrust her rudely aside;
Her purple'lips quivered, and her pitiful eyes,
In their meekness, reproached the hard man in his pride.
With a curse on his haughty lips, he lifted his cane,
And her sad np-turned face showed a deep livid stain.
She sobbed; more from heart-break than from the sharp pain,
She shivered and shuddered in the mud and the rain,
Then clasping her broom, she wandered away
From the pitiless man, up the crowded highway,
With the stream of gay folks, who were steadily passing,
The sweet rosy children, dancing and laughing;
Past the well-lighted dwellings, cheerful-and gay,
With their tea-tables set, in tempting array;
Till she came to the wide open door of a church,
And she softly crept into the deep sheltered porch;
And hugging togethereher. thin garments so old,
She tried to.forget she was hungry and cold.
She heard the solemn organ, and the voices of the choir,
And thought about the happy days around the pleasantly fire,
In the cheerful dear old homestead; and the sunshine on the style,
In the pleasant grassy meadows ; and her gentle mother's smile.
Then a great light shone around her, and the'doors seemed to open 'ide,
And a radiant figu e gligled through, and camesoftly to her side;
A lovely, winsome lady, all robed in purest wgite,
Soft, trailing, fleecy garments, soft eyes full of loving light;
No rustle from her presence, no foot-fall on the ground ;
Bpt the braided lilies ini her hair perfumed the air ameound.


2lI8       wIWow ooDsMITH$'s DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

The little maiden raised her hands, and .murmured, "'Tis dear mother,
That tender, tender smile, oh ! how could it be any other?
Let me creep up to your heart, and snuggle on your arm,
Upon your soft, precious bosom, let me lie and be warm.
Oh I had to sweep the crossing in the bitter pelting storm,
And I lay on the stones all the horrid night, and never, never warm;
I knew how sorry you would be, dearest.darling dear,
To see your poor pet suffer so, with hunger, cold and fear;.
You always used to comfort me, if; I only shed a tear.
But that'weary time is over, and you have come at last,
With your kind arms wrapt around me, I'm forgetting all the past-
You told me you were:going to God, to his heavenly abode,
I tried so hard to follow you, but 'twas a cold and stormy road.
Now you'll take me with you, mother, to the home all warm and bright,
And you'll never leave your -darling baby another freezing night.
Oh wrap me closer, closer, mother, lay your face on mine,
And kiss me on my cheeks and lips as you used in the happy ti ne.
Ah! I'm sorry for the poor little children out in the wet and cold,
Yes, ask dear Christ to comfort them, and fold them in his fold.
Mother, I'm warm and happy, I'm going fast asleep-,-
Your dear arms wrapped around me, your sweet breath on my cheek;
No hunger nor cold for me to-morrow-I shall not wake to weep."
All the prayers were-over, the people going:home,
They found the little crossing-sweeper lying prone upon the stone,
A smile of ineffable gladness lighted her childish face,
And they gazed in reverent sadness, so holy seemed the place.
Poor weary little wanderer'! her sorrows all were done,
Her faded eyes shone radiant now in the:glory of the throne,
Her muddy broom lay on the figs-she had gotten a-golden crown.
As George finished with a. perceptible quiver in his deep voice,
Ruth dropped her face upon his breast, and heavy sobs issued
from Sonsie in 'the corner.  She had thrown her apron over her
head and sat rocking to and fro, as close as she could squeeze to
Chris, who never moved.
"'Well! here's .a trying occasion !" spoke up George, clearing
his throat.  "My duck and the rest of the feminines weeping
plenteously.  I wish1I knew my role in this unexpected concate-
nation of circumstances.   I must confess to an inclination to obey
the singing-master's advice to his pupils, 'Let every:critterjine."

Ruth moved softly away and put her arms around Chris.
" It is God's world, dear," whispered .she ; " He carries the
lambs in his bosom."
A cheerful voice in the door-way brought them all back with a
bound to Roaring River. Pretty Bertha Groenveldt smiled upon
them, like a benevolent little fairy, and bade them " Good eve-
ning."  When she had laid aside her. Waps, and _kissed Pigeon,
they gathered around the tea-table, to which George handed Chris
as carefully as if she had been a bit of, rare china, and though he
could not help casting curious glances at 'her over the rim of his
tea-cup, he exerted himself to recall the smile to her face, and ,
charm her out of her sorrowful abstraction. And they all'made
much of her, and went home with her to her mother's door, _and
dismissed her 'with kving kisses.
--

S219


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.        221

CHAPTER* FIFTEEN H.
THE O L D -YESTERDAY.
JUST as Chris had begun to feel life real, tangible, and worth
having, Bertha went to Sulphrida for the baths; Ruth got busy
with, her spring cleaning, and a heavy cloud settled above the
poor child, cheerless and drearier .than ever, Mrs. Goldsmith
moved about among her Lares and Penates, grim and glowering.
She looked bilious, and probably was. I know she held that
opinion of her physical state, because she swallowed great bowls
of thoroughwort and wormwood, and hugely enjoyed the wretched
faces poor Chris made over the doses which she forced down her
throat. Victimized Chris! who had such shrinking horror of
anything which.tasted bad; all whose senses were as delicate as
Fine-Ears. The Great Tribulation was in frequent request, in-
terspersed with Young's Night Thoughts and "Allien's Alarm,"
and the morning devotions were commenced with "Lamentations"
and ended with, " There is a fiery, dreadful hell."
After the first sewing society, Sabrina and Zoe Walsingham
called to see Chris twice or thrice. Sabrina felt a particular at-
traction towards her ; perhaps because of her shyness, and difli-
culty of access, for she was a self-reliant young maiden, and some-
what confident of her powers of pleasing (was Miss Bradshaw,)
but Mrs..Goldsmith looked so stiff and formidable with her prim
spit-curls ; and the great wrinkles between her sharp eyes were
so belligerent, and she infused so large a measure of fire and
brimstone into her pious admonitions, that Zoe indignantly de-
clared she'd as lief encounter the king of the Cannibal Islands
after he had eaten the last missionary. Poor Chris was shy and
(220)

awkward, and silent-blushingly conscious of her hands and feet,'
and her general shabbiness, and could not or would not talk. In
fact, she could never think, of anything to say in her mother's
presence; so the visit fell dead, and when Sabrina, upon rising
to take leave, invited Chris to come and see her, Mrs. Goldsmith
cut in before she had time to reply-
"I don't never think best for girls to visit much; I never did
when I was young."
Sabrina colored angrily, and went off with her hedd in the air,
and Zoe exclaimed, as soon as the door was shut behind them,
with every symptom of disgust--
" There, Sabrina Bradshaw ! I hope you are satisfied now. I
told you so ! Don't ask me ever to undertake that ancient spider
again. The girl is shamefully put upon and does not know it. I
think I should like to see my natural protector speak to my visit-
ors in that fashion. I would brew a little tempest for the stoney
old lady if I had her to deal with-visit much, indeed!"
Sabrina did not give up, however, and revolved sundry nice
plans in her wise little head which were to bring her to be friends
with the owner of those wistful brown eyes, positive that she
could win her way if only she could get a foothold; and Sabrina
Bradshaw was pretty sure to accomplish sooner or later, what she
ardently desired.
The library was still tabooed ; for Chris had, twelve shirts to
make for my-lord Chandos, and the restriction was to remain in
full force till her task was completed. The only really pleasant
times she had left, were when she was alone in the great old-fash-
ioned kitchen, watching or seeming to watch the cooking. She
had four volumes of Penny Magazines, which her dear papa gave
her whenshe was a wee child, and whose pictures and stories had
been a mine of instruction and amusement carefully worked. It
seems ,strange that these books, so full of everything enjoyable ,
as well as useful, so enriched with graphic truthful delineations of i
what children ought to know, should not be found in every nur-
sery library. All honor to the noble Society who gave them to


222        WIOW GOLDS YTI r JML  E .YR

Wfti0W GOLP5MrtXI's DAUGH 1.-,2 3

us, andsdead thanks'tothe good heart whoPbeautified and enriched.
my own childhood ;with these treasures. ,
What a pity that Co many mothers are asleep to the fact that.
they can create a love for reading in their, children. They keep,
back and hide froi them a;source of, enjoyment precious in soli-
tude. If they are plain and unprepossessing, these friends will
not snub them. If in later life the shelter of the home-roof is
theirs no longer, the world turns cold to them, and the ".dear five.
hundred" ignore their existence, they havestill a solid pleasure to
fal back upon, which can be enjoyed in shabby garments even
better than in the most resplendant attire. Oh! whys will you-
mothers suffer jour children to pass through childhood mere ani-
mals. It is, not all of life to eat goodies, or play with toys,,
though these pleasures are not to. be despised. Your time may
he better employed than. in "riotous needlework."  You may be-
stow upon your, children beautiful thoughts, ideas; teach them
grand facts:. A sunset. walk affords a, theme, an autumn leaf an
inspiration., Don't , forget that they have everything to, learn.
You are surprised sometimes to see them hang upon. your words.
How they look into your eyes when you read to them  tales; of
aginals, of birds,.of fishes, of reptiles, and how eagerly they pur-
sue their investigations for the verification of what they-hear. I
have seen a little child lie for hours and watch _a beetle at his.
labor, or the restless workers in an ant-hilly and when the natural
history of, the busy creatures who so interested her was read and
explained to her, she listened in wrapt interest, though: some of
the words were long and unfamiliar, and she pursued :her inquir-
ies with busy little .face. and serious zeal, and brought, new facts,
as well as, odd specimens .to the next reading.. You may give
them language: also., Their: whole inner life will "grow full and
rich and worth ,something, and pure, -choice words will come,. at
their command, in which to. give -.it voice and expression. Let
your nurseread just one hour to her little charges when she puts
them in bed,from. snome amusing, instructive story,,some simple
history- r(the delightful4bbtthbooks are the very best .fo the
purpose,) and your ears will not be pained with complainings,

nor your 'eyes with sour pouting faces, over the earlyretiring hour
when you give the signal for departure; and the reading weaves
itself into their lives. - All children love pictures ; yet how many
mothers deem it a foolish waste of their valuable, time to show
and explain them. ' They say, "Lhave something more important
to' do; I cannot afford to throw. away minutes in that- fashion."
I have heard them say it, and have seen them push away the
child with the proffered book, regardless of the beseeching, sore
rowful little face, so dependent upon the 'mother for its sunlight,
and take up a bonnet, which a milliner could fabricate so much
more tastefully, or some embroidery, and bend their souls to the
senseless task with a short, impatient, "Get away child; don't
bother, I'm busy."  What are you mothers for ? if not to cultivate
the -immortal minds of your children, and beautify and enrich the
existence you have thrust upon them.without their'consent. Do
give them something to think about besides when dinner will be
ready. You train them to neat and proper habits, you dress them'
so elaboratelythat strangers will turn and admire ; all very well,
but oh how little ! how miserably thin. The foundation:you have
to lay for education must be an every-day work, as ceaseless as
the labor of the coral builders.' You must keep them in an at-
mosphere of books; let them breathe it; live in it.
I was amused with a visit I paid to a fashionable seminary, in
listening to a recitation in English literature.' The names of a
few standard authors, a detached verse or two from their writings,
and' a few vague facts. But how could' they profit the girlswho
had never previously heard the names of' the great ones. There
was one tall girl there who knew something about Swift and Wal-
pole, and the Lakers, and- she ventured' to tell -it, and she' was
blandly endured by the teacher, and flippantly ridiculed' by the-
pupils; who were giving, themselves during recitation to a study
of each other's dresses, and sharpcriticisms of their style. With
the best efforts of the best teachers, such'literature must be .com-
paratively valueless, if there is no mother-built foundation. It is
erecting a structure upon- emptyness, all the' teaching drops
through, like water through a collandere If their minds had'


GSWIDOW GOLDSIiTH'S'DAUGHTER.

been fihed with bits of instruction, as 'the;good god-mother filled
the sieve with clay for her-dear god-child, there would have been
bottom for the teaching, and it would have tarried to be a com-
forter to its "possessor.
It"is a good plan'when you read a, book to a child, to tell the}
author's name, and what else he has written, and some prominent
fact in his history. There are certain books which are precious
to children, and grown folks as well, which every youngling has,
aninalienable right to enjoy. That this is so, is, proved .by the
beautifully illustratededitions that our publishers bring out, of -the
old favorites, at Christmas time, to charm the dollars 'out of our.
pockets:'With their rare delights. Mary Howitt's stories and bal-
lads, Kirk White's poetry, Vicar of Wakefield, the  Grimm
books--Reynard the Fox, Legends' of Brittany,:Norse .tales, The'
Rat Catcher, Barefooted Maiden. Oh what a mine of enjoyment
are'these and the like! Ever fresh, ever new-
I was once;at a dinner-party-I don't go, often--and as plain.
maidens are notinTmuch request, especially after they get a little
elderlyjlI have plenty of leisure for -uninterrupted observation.
Some fanciful allusion was -made, to Blue Beard, and ;a lady in-.
quired who the individual might:be, as -if it had been Mr. Brown
or Mr. Jones around the corner. When rallied upon her igno-
rance of the world-known story, she replied-
was piously brought up, and never allowed to read foolish
story-books."
Now I don't know but the lives of curious Fatima and, her
grim'lord are as instructive as the memoirs .of 'the 'remarkable
little'Samnys who were crammed ,with 'impossible ;learning or
hot-house piety at three years old, with ,which theTract!fSociety.
- is so fo'nd" of enriching.the libraries of' our4Sunday'schools; and
certainly they are vastly:more entertaining. I look upon= nursery
rhymes arid fairy tales- as a necessary part of education, and I
sincerely pity the poor children who are so piously brought up as
to be defraud ed:of their enjoyment. :'Bible stories will be appre r
cited, and Bible precepts received-none the less heartily,-though-
the fro ingli ng erekds that there:was- any old;woman who' lied 'in

her shoe, and that Jack and Gill went tip the'hill to draw a pail.
of water. And the sincere pity he feels for. poor unfortunate
Jack, who' fell down and broke his crown, will not. interfere with
his devotions.
Do not you remeniber, dear old friend, when we were' children?
Such 4, long time ago,-
"Oh how far we must-have run,
When the matin and the vesper
Blend so mournfully in one."
Said little Nell, " I did that yesterday."  Then reflecting, she
added, "but it was an old yesterday."  It is now a very old yes-
terday that you and I stood at our mother's knee, and studied the
pictures in the great family Bible. We did not know that they
weie' copies of Raphael's cartoons-; such information would Aot
have been a brilliant light to our path had it been bestowedupon
us; still the dear mother must at some time, have told us; some-
body did, and who so'likely as she who always told us everything g
we wanted. "'The death of Lazarus," " BarLJesus 'struck with
blindness," the sudden fate of Ananias and Sapphira-this last,
the text'of a most impressive sermon, which thrilled us with awe
at each fresh contemplation of the figures. The departure of the
bondwoman: and you put your little fingers caressingly on fiagar's
sad face, and felt hon:eat grief' well up in your pure young heart,
and brim over at'your 'eyes, as you listened to the cuious' tale.
How you 'dwelt on the attitudes and expressions of the Patri
archal group. -Can't you still see Abraham   as he looked to you
then ? with his long white beard and mild eyes; he points toward
the wilderness, whither the dnsky Hagar -must go with her dar-
ling boy,'who clings to her in sad astonishment. 'There stands the
pitcher and the loaf, but the doomed slave 'is looking her lastron
the face of the master whom she loved. It serms to you a very
hard case; alid there is Sarah peeping "out of the door of the
tent, hr'  countenance lighted' with' triumph. It is a life me+nory.
The dear:warm hands which rested onoiur heads with tender lova-
touch when we{prayed, were folded above- her breast. You and

224

WIDOW 'GOLDSMITH - SDAUGHTER-

225


226         WIDOW .GOLDsMITHS DAUGHTERW

I kissed them andthe white roses which they clasped, weeping
blinding tears, long ago. The- dear' mother has: entered into her
rest. Do not the pictures recall her sweet accents-her caressing,
touch ?
There was the old Geography which. you embellished and,
illuminated with your first box of water-colors. The Frei h
girls dancing in the politest of attitudes, whom you treated to a
costume of brilliant carmine; the Spanish ladies, whose veils and
fans you touched gorgeously with gamboge, and your pretty
young teacher in her brown merino frock, laughed and admired.
with you, and told you-tales of Castilian courage and Moorish.re-
finement, which you drank in with eager ears. She married old.
Beardsley, the soap boiler, afterwards, and you said you should
like to shoot him full of peas with:your pop-gun.-
Il know a family of four dear little daughters, and it is a pretty.
sight to see them out on the lawn of a summer evening.. :They '
are arrayed in their: mother's long robes, floating behind them,. in
odds' and ends ,of ribbon and fantastic flower garlands; each with
willow wand, -marching, posture making,:and declaiming. Every
face is lighted with thoughts; . They are acting a story which they'
dearly love. " Midsummer Eve," Mrs. Hall's delightful .creation,
than' which, a, sweeter tale. of fairy doings was. never penned.
Now they are earth spirits and air- fairies.. Honey-Bellland Night-
Star dispute;the possession of the lovely baby, with the.malieious
Kelpie. Queen.- They sympathize deeply.,in the ;trials of Eva
and Sydney, and rtheiricheeks glow, and their eyes sparkle; they
are alive: Their sports use all their muscles,; theyare full!of
agile grace, but their frolic 'is note mere animal capering, like
young lambs or little pigs with their tails curled over their backs
Theie is a. moral and a rneaning' in their game right .must tri-
umph,' and evil'mdst be punished. -Sometimes they'areBunyan's
Pilgrims, seeking the celestial city. They struggle through the
slough of despond- -they walk.with Great Heart:and Faithful, and
I almost believeithey see the pearly gates across:the darkriver.
They always=welcome:an ill-dressed little body among them with
joy, if it has thinking soul in it iThe fashion of the world has

no place'in-their estimate of their companions. It is not, " what
hats and dresses do they wear," that they- inquire, but, what do
they know?  Rich and vigorous: in, their child-life, they are not
great in out-dressing or outshining their companions. They
never dance at Saratoga till two o'clock .in the morning,9nor is
their shining 'hair frizzed and crimped by merciless maids, but
they can trip it featly on their own green-sward, and when.they
open their mouths to speak, they utter something worth hearing.
They live close to their mother Nature, and she shows them in
all confidence her mysteries. "Acheta Domestica" is theirs, and
"Homes without Hands," and they speak together of what they
learn, and sometimes strike, out truths which set their eldeits
thinking. I don't. know as they will get husbands, very likely
they may not, but with such culture and such resources of their
own, they will not turn sour if they don't. They will, make
heavenly old maids. Thank Heaven there are some women who
dan live, even though a man never "comes home to tea."  I, for
one, have managed to get through life very comfortably so far.
,But to return to our Chris and her Penny Magazines, she kept
them hidden in a cupboard, in the pantry. Every yearly clean-
ing, Dame Goldsmith, in her character of bustling housewife,
hauled them out, and sourly anathematized them "nasty rubbish,"
"silly picture trash," etc., and threatened to bundle themsup gar-
ret or burn them, but there would come a look into Chris'-brown
eyes, so like to her dead father's, that last night of his life,'when
she had been virtuous and proper with him, but which, for all
that was not a pleasant memory for her, that she had ended, thus
far in knocking the volumes viciously together and throwing them
back again.
There was on- 'cleaning day, which Chris lived over, and over
in 'the strange land where we wander with shut eyes, and she ree
turned thence, shuddering, exhausted : with her bit ter tears. That
day, she had been goaded to lay her hand on her books, and say,
"they are-mine, my father gave them to me. , Heysees you now,
and he' does ,not, love you at all, because you are so cruel and
wicked to me."  The dreadful looks, the fierce angry words, her

WIDOW GOLDS KITI '8  DAUGNTER«   227_

.'r


228'          WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
bruised flesh, and beyond these,that "fearful night in the thick
darkness of the cellar, which her vivid imagination peopled with
untold horrors, were agonies which she was forced often to compress
into the brief space of her dreams, an'd which left her trembling,
terrorastricken, withquivering flesh, and cold sweat drops start;'
ing over her, when. every pulse-beat was 'a hammer sti-oke of pain.
Her mother had forgotten'the circumstance entirely, shehad slept
well after 'her nightly prayer, and if any meddling ,person hact
told her-that she- hads planted a theme for bitter revengeful mus
ing in the night watches, in her little child, by her ivholesone dis
cipline,which stirred all her bad passions, she would have sniffed
uponthe meddler, and said, "oh shaw, such little shavers don't
remember their lickings half as long as they ought to. I guess
'm the best judge about bringing on her up, and IhaCalate'to d
just about as I am a mind to.""
Iere then, bythe old cupboard, under the window, among the
bright glasses and shining pans, Chris came and read, every odd-
moment she could command, while the dinner was cooking, or the
coffee Was' roasting, It was just high enough for her to rest her
elbows upon, as she leaned over her s'olume  She could never
reposefully' seat, herself, so subject was she to frequent 'calls.-
"Chris". here, "Chris" there, like poor Figaro. Fl erhothee
seemed always to'be on the alert to make occupation for her, but
she returned again and again, and read and re read, and pored
over the 'familiar pictures. They were dear old friends. ' The
spice trees and the -mangos, the fishing cormorants, the"Chinese
juhks,'the secretary birds, the jugglers, the truffle hunters, the
,eide'r-d own, ' ndt.samphire-gatherersi A mine of wealth, Fa store-
house of thoughts, which her thrifty mother never conceived rof.
But 'then; 'she oftdn:made her boast that she had-made a ruffle shirt
for her father before she was five years old, and, she-'hadacouple
of hileous patchwork bed' quilts which she ski'finad "'mor n sir
thousand pieces of' calicos into em, and she did 'every bit on't."
The excellent widow built no castles, and- I don't know as:she
could'help glowering on Chris as she did, when the child's dreamy
eyes. looked afar off, and she sat with1her:idle fingers in her lap,

WIDOW GOLDSMITH' DAUGHTER.    '  22.9

while her busy fancy revelled among her estates'in Spain, and per-
haps she thought she did her plain duty, when she pounced upon
her and brought her homt to reality with a jerk.
"You're Goldsmith all over," she said one-day, when particularly
aggravated, "alers dreamin about nothin, you'd read yourself into
an ampus and izzard, if you' was let alone, and never do a'pesky
thing.' She emphasized her peroration by seizing " Bettina,}
and throwing it on the table with a bang. Chris jumped,- and
threw a loving,-longing look after her lost treasure. She had only
discovered it that morning, among Chandy's school books;'and
hidden it under her work, hoping to catch a moment for it now
and then between her stitches.~ Just a line or. two was better
than nothing, and gave her subject for thought while she plied'her
task. The good matron came very near burning it up, only gee=
ing her son's name on the 'cover i the gilt stamp he was aecus-
toned to impress upon his books, saved it.
My thoughts were wool-gathering, I confess, mother, but you
shall see how I will hurry now. Do not blame dearest Bettina.
It is true' what she says :"These thoughts are they not apples;
which are ripened on the tree of wisdom, and which it casts down
into the lap of the loving ones who abide in its 'Paradise and rest
in its shadow ?"
She raised her wistful eyes. If she hoped for a pleasant 'look
or a motherly smile, she might as well have kept them upon. her
work,. for then perhaps they would not have filled with 'pitiful
tears, and her mother would not have sniffed at her with 'such
soul' contempt. Yet it is true, Widow Goldsmith could 'prform a
muscular' contortion which she' believed' to be a smile, when Chan
dy chaffed her in his half fond, half insolent way, and-he'would
pull her about when he felt inclined, like a clattering fossil. Just
now she screwed her sharp eyes into Chris' downcast face, and
scratched her gathers till they squealed again.
"If you had one speck of come up to you, you might look like
somebody and work'night-gowns and shifts for yourself like
other girls. There was that flippery Zoe Walsingham had on a
petticoat tother day, a finger deep, (sassy little imp ! I should


230          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER,
like to, spank 'her,)" she added with unpleasant recollection of
some of Zoe's stinging speeches,
Chris looked up astonished. "When should I find, time for
embroidery? after Chandy's things are all done, and the house-
work finished ?" Then noting the savage frown upon the maternal
countenance, she added quickly, "I really don't. care for such
things. I don't see the useof cutting boles just to sew them'up
again..; I think plain clothes are ever so much prettier, and
where's the use of spoiling my eyes and pricking my fingers for
nothing ; besides, I've often heard you say, mother, that you did
not approve of such a waste -of time."
Humph 1 anything is better than nothing, and I count your
trumpevy reading worse than nothing and vanity. - Such balder-
dash as you have been. talking.just now, the dog can't make noth-
ing out on't. I'd try and whack up some clothes, and have some-
thing to show for my time."
Chris said no more, she had learned not to multiply words, but
she privately thought that mayhap she had .as much to show for
odd times, and as good store laid upfrom the trumpery reading,
as if she had accumulated ever such a pile of wrought garments,
which by the way, it is doubtful if she would have been allowed,
to achieve, had she been' so inclined. She glanced down at her,
faded, patched old gingham, and thence to the footed stockings
prolonged from a pair of Chandy's socks, and smiled at the idea,
of curious;needle work ; but as she had long ago learned to keep
her thoughts mostly to herself. she plodded at the wristband she
was double stitching for Sir John Chandos' seventh shirt, and did
not speak again till she was ordered to the kitchen to wash the
vegetables xfor dinner.

CHAPTER SIXTEENTH.
CHRIS T AI ES A WALK.
The spring had -come ! . The robins sang its praises to Chris
every morning, from the old tulip tree. The blue birds cairoled
joyously toi her as soon as the rosy streaks shot up the east. They
had inspected all the orchards, and found none so sweet a spot as
the mossy fork in front of her window, which held their last year's
nest, and they were already at work with sticks and straws re-
pairing its walls,, and accepted, gratefully Chris contributions of
swan's down, and silken ravels, for lining; and they were tempta.
tons to the poor child, who could not help lirigem ing by her win-
dow, bathed in the soft sunshine, watching their merry labors, ad-
miringtheir delicate blue backs,:their red bosoms, their sweet
songs, and the bright eyed familiar glances they gave her.  She
fancied they remembered-her, and rejoiced to see her--again.
Roaring River was dashing over the rooks at Madfalls, with
mightfthunder. The purple anemones and star flowers were all
abloom in the sheltered ridges on-the Hog's back. Chris im=
agined she could smell their faint perfume, and the'wood-scent of
dead leaves and mosses, as she sat in the great rooui stitching
"with fingers weary and worn," upon the dreary shirts. She
had not put her head out of do6r-s for a fortnight, excepting twice
to church of a Sunday, and then, it was raining dismally. She
was tired, depressed, her nerves all on the out side, and she looked
wistfully up at the high-sailing clouds, and down the grass bor-
dered street, and lost herself in a dream of what, she would do,
if she were but free to come and go as she listed.
(231)


*                         R

232

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

Suddenly she started to her feet, and dropped the sleeve she
was gathering, her face all aflame, and her intent eyes glistening.
"What's to pay now, I should admire to know ?'' exclaimed
her mother, " you are as red as a rooster."
" They've come, they've come !" said Chris under her breath.
"'Who've come, what are you talking about ?"
" Bertha Groenveldt and her. mother. They're from a Sul.
phreda. I saw them drive past just now, and dear Bertha waived
her handkerchief to me. Oh ! I'm so glad. They are at Ruth
Blair's by this time--in the house-they kiss Pigeon, the smell
of the daffodils comes in at the open window, how gay their voices
so und  Bertha's sweeter than all, the laughing And the' talking,
and they are so happy."
1s. Goldsmith took off hefr spectacles to glower at her daigh-
ter who stood with parted .lips, and humid smiling eyes as if she,
saw it all,'and so greatly did she sympathize in her joy that-she
could hardly refrain from, shaking her.  " Well! you do talk,
petty, I must allow. The best thing you can do, is to set down
in your chair and scratch them gethers. I'm about ready to sew
them in. Such' crazyness ! did I ever."
- 'Mother," spoke up Chris desperately, "'Do'let me tak a walk
this afternoon. I'm sick, I'm faint, my hand trembles, a little
run would' put new' life into me. I would sew enough faster af ier-
wards{to make up for the time. If you knew how m hiend-
jumps"' she pushed the 'hair from off her throbbing tbiples.
" Fiddlesticks !" ejaculated the widow, "you are' not going
galavanting any heres till Chandos' shits is done. You've kep
em on the docket now till Im siek and tired of the sight of em.
I don't feel the need of any walks ffor my health, and I don't se
why youshould; just an excuse to get but doors. Why don't
you tease to go down to the brook and get some Teppermint ; 'that
alleys used to be the tune, and if I ever did let you go, you'd conic
back drabbled up to your knees, and as nasty 'as pizen. if you'd
a put in as you'd ought to, we might a' got this here shirt ready fbr
Monday's wash. Just hang up your fiddle, aid stick to your,

WIDOW GO;LDSMITH'S. DAUGHTER.

233

safTrng. You wear the flesh offof my bones with your shiftless.
ways."
'But mother," persisted Chris, with wonderful courage, "Iprom-
ised Bertha I would come and see her just as soon as she came
back, and it is so long since I have had anybody.to speak to."
" Well, you do talk pretty., I should say I'd do for company
if youwas so drefful put to't. I rather believe I'm your natural
parent. 31can't help nothin what you told that Groenveldt girl,
you'd best not naake promises till you ask me. I boss-this house
myself. Time enough to go a visiting when the work is, all'done."
"But, mother, I am afraid that time.will never come for- me.
(Chris sank down-with a hopeless sigh). I would work ever so
late to nightif I could only go."
" To night ! just like yo;, burn out oil. 'I rather guess it ain't
a matter of life and death for you to see them folks to-day, but
still if you put in lively and finish your stent, I don't mind your
runnin' round half an hour between day-light and dark,-when you
can't see to sew. You shan't.have to say I ain't willin' to have;
youtgo, if you care enough about it, to work for it."
Mrs. Goldsmith was tolerably certain that her daughter could.
npt finish her stent, but she calculated that it was a good way to
get a deal out of her.
"Put that nasty cat out door, the first thing -you do ; how you
can bear him climbing all over you, and licking your face, and
settin on your neck, I can't contrive. It makes me crawl, the
pesky rep-tile."
" I am afraid Bax Williams will shoot him if he goes out to-
day, I saw him creeping about the garden fence, with a gun this
morningg"
"What if he does! no harm done. 'I wish he would for' my
part, good for nothin ;creatur!l allers eatin milk.
"Milk !" repeated Chris, " when did he get any milk?"
"No impudence, Miss, besides he takes up your time. I can't
aford, to keep cows for. cats. You are forever holding him and'
talking to hm."
I' I love him. Should be very sorry to lose Rainbow," (kissing

0


hW as he iut iiii   a d iv to he face frotoghi'fdvrite jer h,
and purred in her rosy ear.)
"Pshaw! don't be silly about a   dwothlesscat! better keep
some of your 'love for your kinfolk."
"Perhaps I m-ight if they loved'nie as much 'as Rainbow does.
I hav'nt sohmany friends that I can aftdord to despise even my cat."
'If you don't hold your tongue," exclaimed Mrs. Goldsmith in
a aggravated voice; "I'll thke and kill that creator myself. Don't
letnid hearno more 'about the beast one way or other. Get
out !' shei added,'rising and stalking to the door. lBefore-Chris
had time to spring front her seat, she had opened it with a slam.
"tScat ybu brute !"  (Thus she politely saluted 'flainbow.)
The watchful Egyptian shot deftly past her, with enlarged tail,
dodging her broom-stick, and flew, up stairs, instead of outside,
unlatched Chris' door; and entered with a permow, as if to au-
nounce'the fact to her,and ensconced himself in the middle of
the bed, where he suffered the green gleams to die out of hig
golden yellow eyes, and licked his paws at his leisure.
After stitching half an hour in perfect silence, Chris gathered
up her work, preparatory to retr-eating beyond1 the wvearfing,
worrying over-look her mother kept upon her when she was in1
sight. It was an even chance whether she would be allowed to
go, butshe felt ds if she could not sit still any longer. Eyeing
her sharply over, Mrs. Goldsmith espied a piece of paper sticking
out of her pocket.
"What's that ?" demanded she as suspiciously as if she had
suspected a gunpowder plot.
"A little sketch I made 'this morning of the' blue bids in the
tulip tree," (pushing it hastily out of sight.),
"kmuph ! another way4o fooloft' your time. What good will
all your scratching and. sketChing do? ? athei all over !'t (this
last in a queifulous 'undretorie.)
" iniay'gt my living by"it one day, or soniething'else, and be-
forelong too'"spoke up Chrie, facing hotly about, herhead thrown
back, and het eyes kindling. "I can't- always drone on'here,
there's something for mdto do in this ~orld  side savtig for

WID OW GOLDYSM rfl'8 AUHE       3

Chandos Goldsmith. I hate hirti!he's-a -selfish wretch, alwaysin'
my way. I'd as lief die now, if I can't find any other occupation
than to be his stitching machine."
"4Well," ejaculated the widow. ".You do talk pretty, are you
pQsessed, or what ?  A nice subject you are to talk abopt dying !
Wheredo you suppose you would go to, you poor miserable sinful
creatur?"
" I don't know, and I don't much care. I don't find my life so
pleasant thatI count. on it, and as for the future I don't believe
my Heavenly Father will be so hard on me as you are, at any
rate Papa. is there,; and you-"
Chris stopped short, alarmed at her thought, astwell as. the:
expression of her mother's face, which looked stony cruel; her
black eyes darted fire, and her whole scalp moved visibly with
the deep, wrinkles into which she drew her frowning, brow, and
her teeth gnashed together; she seemed.about: to spring, and her
bony hands contracted into claws.
"Mother," exclaimed Chris, taking a step towards her, " for-
give me, I did not mean to say so much, pray forgive me."
After, a few minutes gazing at her in silent wrath, too great for
speech, the widow said in a voice like a stab:
"Get out of my sight Christabel Goldsmith. I believe you
are given over to perdition. The devil desires to have you, that
he may sift you as wheat, and .it's my opinion he'll get you; Up
stairs with you! don't you show your impudent face down herb
again till I call you, and there shall be weeping and wailing' and
gnashing of teeth.'
With this comforting lookout, poor Chris went slowly up stairs,
and seating herself bythe window, began working in a weary,
plodding way. She had forgotten alleabout Berthab inthe turnlt
of her anger, and she sighed as she thought that her miotliertraight
be right; at any rate she was- horribly wicked.  Now Rainbow
came and seated himself: ou the window sill, and commienced a
convers(atio1 with hisnistress, as if he readiher sorrowful thoughts,
while he winked and blinked at:the bluebirds, wh werebusylin'
the tulip tree, whose velvety -new leaves flapped in the soft  fad


26        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUNHTER.

and seerhed' begging her to admire' them, and he waved lis tail
gracefully to and fro, bringing its ochrey yellow and sh ining black
beauties into full view, allowing them, (the blue birds,) to believe
themselves safely out of his reach, and finally he folded his double
paws innocently under him, with a long drawn purr. Chris was
allhe wished, for the present, and the blue birds might bide their
time. But his companionship, usually so pleasant to her, his an-.
tics so mirth-provoking could not satisfy her to-day. She did not
look at, or speak to him. The constant'recurrence of such rasp-
ings were wearing out her endurance, spoiling her temper, and
her young life might have been so sweet if her mother had chosen
to have it so.
while that. irate matron was stitching in grim uprightness,
thinking what an ungrateful daughter she had, and how piously
she was doing her duty by her, and drawing out her waxen thread
with an- echoing hum, which punctuated her thoughts, small
carriage wheels sounded on the gravel walk, and a clear cheery
voice, exclaimed upon the door-stone-
"'Heaven bless the portal, open friendly wide,
And send a kind god-even when you find us it beside.'"
Mrs-. Goldsmith made a sour grimace, and said, snappishly,
without looking up:
"Eh! Ruth" Blair, I s'pose. Why can't you come in like a
christian, and pass the time of day as other folks do ?"
"Why, my dear madam, you surprise me'! My form of salu-
tation was remarkably choice, not to say poetical. I  thought you
would' like it."
" You thought I was a fool, then, 'that's all," she replied, with
a most disgusted: sniff  "I 'like common sense -and ,common'do-
ings, and I don't believe in hifalutin folhde-rols.".
No waysdtunted by this confession- of faith,-or the biting
mood in which she found hei. hostess; little Ruth laughed merrilyy,
while she proceeded to lift'Pigeon from his carriage, and seating '
herselfby the window, she, divested  himof his wraps, andiset
him'toddling on the floor, saying ,mischievovnsly:

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              237
"There, go and see grandma, and tell her 'good afternoon,' ,like
a gentleman; you know you are the apple of her eye."
The grim lady relaxed enough to glance down through her
glasses, at, the pretty blooming child, who toddled up to her and
smiled in her face, saying:," ood noon, dranma; I Pidden."
The astounding information nade little impression, for 'dranma'
did not move to caress him, an he turned away from her as from
a stone image, and a very sti and gruffy one at that, and 'di-
rectly laid profane hands upon her button-box, which he emptied
in a twinkling, and sent the contents trundling in all directions;
at which Mrs. Goldsmith remarked:
" There ! of course ! Now I hope you feel better."
" Where's Christabel, to-day, Grandma ?" asked Ruth, laughing,
as she ran to the rescue.
"Up stairs, I expect."
" Can she descend, to see a friend ?"
"I suppose she might," replied the widow, dryly; "she's got
two good legs."
"If you will permit me, Grandma, I'll just propound the in-
quiry," replied Ruth, smoothly, enjoying in secret the widow's
trucculent humor; and tripping across the floor, andout into the
wide hall, she called out, merrily:
"Christabel, descend; you husband waits for you to appear."
"Humph ! what nonsense ! ' said Mrs. Goldsmith, communing
with herself in a grating und r-tone.
Chris came languidly.  1
"Why how pale you are, and how woe-begone !".exclaimed
Ruth, as soon as she-appeared ii sight. She had already guessed
that something disagreeable'' had ,passed between mother and
daughter. "And 'upon niy word, you are beginning to stoop !
My dear Mrs. Goldsmith, we must force this poor dove out of the
nest; she needs ozone. Come, hand. me that garment you are
holding as if it weighed tons ; I feel moved to give .Grandma a
specimen of my needle-work, while we chat pleasantly-together;
we feel sociable to day. I've bags of news,.about the' sewing-
society, and I can, talk- all the faster when my hands are busy.


2-8 wi1ow GOLIs              H'SaDAUGTER.I
Now _then, Miss Chris, you just tieson:your bonnet, and use those
two good legs which grandma has just assured me you are the
happy possessor of, and try if you can persuade.a little rose into
your cheeks and -sparkle into your eyes, so that you won't look
quite so like-afaded flower,.and when you-come back. I'll tell you
something which will greatly pleaseryou."
Chris.stood irresolutely holding the shirt in her limp;grasp,iand
gazing at her mother. She was heartily sorry for her wrong-
doing, and if she had seen:a glance of love in the stony face, she
was all ready to throw herself at her feet, and beg once more to
be forgiven; but it was not there, and she turned 'her eyes upon
Ruth, who was regarding her with :a curious mingling of emo-
tions.
"Bertha has come," said she, slowly. " Tell her I love her,
and would come and see her if .I could, but, I'm  under orders,
and-"
Ruth interrupted;her, and. not too -soon, for her voice was rising
into a bitter tone, and her face was hardening.
"Yes, dear, she :has-gone up to Craigenfells to-day 'with-her
mother ; she only stopped a moment at the ,gate as she passed,
and she sent her -dear love to. you, and 'twas she whispered the
secret to me which I'm to tell you after you have had your ozone."
Chris felt a small grasp upon her skirt, and looked down at
Pigeon, who was putting up his mouth for a kiss._
"Little husband," said she, stooping: and picking him np "Can
it be that the poor innocent child desires. to kiss me;lie does. not
know what a reprobate I 'am ;" and then all at once her set 'face
gave way, and. she broke down andbegan ito cry.
"oConecome, Chris, hurry off; this golden hour ripens apace.
Tell her tQ go, Grandma; indeed she .needs the exercise."
The ,widow looked slowly up, and .said, as if against her will,
and in answer to something in Ruth's 'face which compelled her:
" Do goa! -"    The words did not sound like a blessing.
"Anywhere,:anywhere, out of the world," murmured Chris..
CI never took .no'waaks for my. health, when Iwas young:
there ain't;no need on'L. Take, that ,basket of beans down to

WIDOW , GOLDSMITU5 P -A. GC TER.

289

Peter Bradshaw's, that'll give you exercis. You Eneedn't stay
forever; I wish you could offer to do anything useful; setting'
here dumb, when you knew very well that I wanted to get them
beans down. That's just the :way; I always have to seepto ev-
ery individual thing. You ain't so good as a stick."
Chris dashed up stairs for her sun-bonnet. - There was the
usual allowance of buttons off her dress, and her hair was ,in its
customary untidy wad in -the back of her neck; but it did not
occur torher to arrange either.; she gave not' a glance to her mir-
ror, none of those trifling, pretty-last-touches which are ., natural
in a young girl making a toilette); but seizing a pencil and sheet
of .paper, she crammed them in her, pocket, and re-appeared in
the hall, just nodding to Ruth, as she swung the heavy bask t n
to her arm, and strode out through the door, Ruth-ran after'her.
- 4What is it ?" Chris called out,:impatiently, over her shoulder.
" Your chair, dear," Ruth. whispered; "and your dress, let me."
" Oh, never mind, 'Ruth, don't stop: ie, please ; Ifeel : s if ;I
should stifle if I can't get out of this house ; .it is as gloomy as an
open grave. - Don't take hold of my arm, it sends prickles all
over me. I know I shall be.called back for'something.if I don't
make 'haste to get out of sight."
" But dear, suppose-"
"Oh, I shan't see anybody down there ; I'm not to go in, you
know ; just leave my basket at the kitchen:door, like a good and
faithfulservant."  She smiled bitterly; "and it is all the same,
anyway, nobody cares. Well then, Ruth, somebody does care.
I look stormy,.don't I? I feel as if I had been keelhauled. Qh
yes, your face says I. an. behaving shamefully. Iknowrit; mother
told me I was elected to-you know, (pointing downward,' with
her fingers all stitched to a point;) perhaps I am; but there wen't
be any shirts to make there for dear brother Chandos. Dreadful
wicked, ain't it?  I wouldn't be as pious as mother if I could.
You may as well give me over, Ruth, fora bad jobhad
,not beenleft-out of the catalogue alt gether ; I shouldF ifI had
been en sulted about it. Then .dearest narma and the precious
son could have had it all to themselves."


210         WIOW GOLDSMITH' DAUGHTER.

" Christabel !" said Ruth, seriously, and laying her hand on the
excited child's mouth; "do not run on so; you don't know what
you are saying."
"Yes I do, Ruth; I wish I was dead, and she wishes so, too,"
pointing toward the window. "And I'll tell; you a secret; if
Chandos should die I would go to his funeral, and I would not
shed a tear for him."
In the midst of her wicked talk her lips trembled, and now her
eyes brimmed over, and she hastily swung off her basket and
threw her -arms around Ruth's neck.{
'Oh, if my mother only loved me," she whispered,."I could
bear everything. , I have not been good to-day; I spoke very
undutifully to her, and she won't forgive me,; she looked at me as
if I were a murderer, and said such hard things. Ruth, I want
to be loved:; if I could be petted instead of scolded, I believe I
could be like other girls. I am sure I was a good little child;
my father loved me. I don't believe I am a reprobate."
"You are over-tired, dear, and nervous," said Ruth, soothingly.
",You are loved," she continued, with a kind caress, "very, .very
dearly; here, kiss your little husband, who is coming, anxious for
a last fond adieu. Kiss him sweet, and begone. Good bye;
don't hurry'back'; I'll make it all right ; and remember I've such
a nice tell for you."
She stood an instant at the door, watching the drooping figure
down the long walk, and out at the gate; and her face fell a little,
and she almost forgot where she was, so busy were her thoughts;
then she, turned so- briskly that it 'seemed a strong effort of will
which recalled her, and said in a cheerful voice :
"Now then, master Pigeon, you just pick up those roving but..-
totse." -She led him back into the presence of the stone image:
"Isn't he a pretty creature, grandma? Look at his dimpled fin-
gers! how daintily he gathers up those shining playthings ! I
really can not bring myself to believe that those rosy mites will'
ever be large enough to make scythes and, such great iron mon-
sters. Now you know the=next society will be: at Mrs. John
Bisbee's, and-"

WIDOW GOLDSMITH 's DAUGHTER              241
But we will leave little Ruth to her task of entertaining and
ameliorating her hostess, while we go with, our Chris on her
pleasant walk alongthe grassy road-side, past mossy walls, over-
grown with blackberry bushes all abloom with white beauty,
mixed in with eglantine, sweet-meliing ai [ delicate, just spring-
ing into bud ; and the shining squaw-berry vine, which in her gay
childhood she. used to twine around her father's pictures, and
wreathe about his forehead in imitation of the busts in his studio.
How: the faint wood fragrance brought him back to her, his life
and death, of which she every day understood more clearly the.
meaning. She started a chip-munk which ran merrily along
before her, springing, lightly across the low rocks, and seating
himself beyond harm's way, with his brush elegantly curled over
his back, and an acorn in his. cheek, and looked at her attentively.
A couple of cat-birds were building in a low larch, and conversed
sociably together at their work. She left the road, and made a
short cut through the meadow and the wood lot, ancle-deep in
rustling leaves. Here she paused to gather some wind-flowers
and wild violets, and to pick a few tender wintergreens, adding
solomon's seal and wood anemones, and adder's tongue to her col-
lection. She lingered, and her lips parted in a smile, and her
face cleared. She took in every tiny pleasure in her pathway,
and listened to the " wood notes wild," which made "unwritten
music" all around her. Before she reached the Bradshaw man-
sion she had time.to feel her basket heavy, as well as to get her
thoughts in tune with the beauties she so dearly loved; and when
she came upon a flock of young' lambs, chasing each other over
an old rock, with every evidence of intense relish of theirfrolic,
she set down her load and leaned over the wall to watch them;
and when one, more clumsy or more nimble than his fellows,
rolled over and over, down their sloping play-ground, and jumped
up on his four legs at once, and whisked his tail, and galloped
away, she laughed aloud, the first time in days and days..
Peter Bradshaw, besides being an excellent farmer, had a fancy
for keeping a show place, and his grounds were in the highest
state of perfection. The rolling  rneadowvAround the great old


242         WIDOW' GOLDSMITII'A DAUGITIeR.

WIDoW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

fashioned mansion was as soft and smooth as velvet, and a dozen
of creamy cattle, feeding on the knolls, stood out in the clear
light, like some.of Wateau's warm creations i his favorite land-
scapes.
Mr. Bradshaw harrowed with patent harrows, plowed with culti-
vators, reaped with reapers, had horse-rakes and horse-rollers, and
all other implements which cunning Yankees have made available
in husbandry ; and he took the Genesee Farmer, and the Rural.New
Yorker, and the Agriculturist, and read "'Downing," and "Bevan
on the Bee," and got up seedlings and Bradshawii; and imported
Alderneys, and " sold a bull once in a while," like Daniel Web-
ster; and got over " Ram-Saguls," and " Cotswolds," and talked
up the firm with Peter the younger, and heartily enjoyed all the
pleasures his occupation could afford, and what is more, he made
it pay. Barnum says his potatoes cost him fifty cents apiece.
Mr. Bradshawr raised the-finest sorts, and his were a profit to him,
and he got richer and richer every harvest. His mare, "Dainty
Pet," won all the races at the county show, and beat her celebra-
ted sire-out hollow. He never thought any care of his stock too
much trouble, and they paid him well in health and beauty. He
kept his wife, the delicate little Alice Craigenfells, like a 'queen
in her household,.all ordered and arranged to. her liking. His
eldest-born, Peter, followed in his footsteps, and was his firm friend
and co-helper. He was a tall, straight, rosy-checked youngster,
with health and strength enough for two, and' as good as gold.
Sabrina, the golden-haired, had her way, and her ponies, and her
dogs, and, her aviary and conservatory,.and her books, and every-
thing else she wanted; and little Pauline frolicked free as air,
and was gay as a lap-wing, and as mischievous as a magpie-
a regular enfant terrible, putting her voice into every one's mat-
ters, and her busy little fingers into everybody's pudding, as li-
censed as a king's jester.
Christabel Goldsmith ought to have been a familiar guest of
this household, by right of being her father's daughter, and
her own qualities and acquirements; but she was never seen
here, except on some errand like the present, which she dispatched

243

in a few words at the kitchen door, and hurried swiftly away, for
fe ar she should encounter Sabrina. She walked down the long
drive-way, with her head bent, and her bonnet drawn close, and
at the gate she heard childish voices and merry laughter away.
out among the trees in the orchard; and she turned aside, and
paused to look at a group which charmed her artist-eye. Then
glancing carefully around, and making quite sure no one saw her,
she climbed upon the mossy wall, and taking out her pencil, she
bcgtan to sketch wih a free hand the figures before her. The
spreading apple-trees, 'adorned with their rosy blossoms, the rich
carpet of green grass beneath, on which were sitting two little
gi-ls, busily engaged in dressing - i baby-costume a huge tabby-
cat, who purred complacently during the trying ordeal. A doll's
carriage, a cradle, the rightful occupants of which were huddled
together in disheveled heaps on the turf; a scarlet shawl, swung
hammock-like from. the low branches ; the long rich sweep of
lawn beyond, dotted with tiny ponds, and just a glimpse of Roar-
img River shining through the pine trees. The white-shelled.
walks and drives, winding about and about ; the flat Arden, with
fantastic shares of f iwer-bed, on the other side, backed by green-
houses, all glass and iron, light and airy, and aflame with fuchsias
and cacti, and scarlet geraniums, framed in by shining cape-jessa-
nine'which wreathed the slender pillars; richly carved vases, stand-
ing on pedestals, and filled with amarylis and agapanthus; striped
century plants and African aloes,- sitting' stately and still in the
glowing sunshine. The whole shut in by Craigenfells mountain, up
whose lofty sides were creeping the gray smoke-wreaths. - And'
from the distant lake came the scream of the lonely loons, who
pursued their arrowy course over and 'through the clear, waveless
waters, and dipped their deep-black collars, in twisting, turning
dives, beneath its cool surface.
Chris forgot her daily worries and her horrible wickedness, and
worked in hearty enjoyment of her freedom, and the sweet influ-
ences of the time and place; her'sun-bonnet thrown-back, and her
small head bent, while her cheeks crimsoned, and her eyes lighted
with pleasure.


2.14         WIDOw    GOLDSrrITU'S DAUGHTER.
A hearty burst of merriment caused her to look up from the
tree she was sketching, into her middle distance, and she beheld
Rainbow, with a; night-cap on his head, which was as square and,
massive as his Egyptian progenitors ; a .long mantle floating
gracefully over .his mottled sides, and tied at the tip of his tail
with streamers of crimson ribbon, and his four legs decently-clothed
upon with drawers borrowed from the denuded dolls; a tiny veil
depending from his pointed ears. He was sweeping over the
grass in a long gallop, with the laughing gii-ls in full pursuit, their
curls flying out, and their garments fluttering in the rapid chase.
" Permow !" said Rainbow, pausing at the foot of the wall
Where Chris had perched herself; then glanced over his shoulder
at his waving tail and floating streamers,, as if to call her atten-
tion to his adornments. His pursuers were close upon him, but
he skillfully evaded them at the last moment, when their four
plump hands were extended to seize him, and their panting, warm
breath dashed over his face in sweet gusts. He clambered up the
rough stones, and standing in triumph by his mistress' side, he
seemed to laugh all over at their defeat.
" Why, Rainbow ! how did you get here so'soon ?  I left you
pa the window sill, watching the blue-birds. You must have
gotten on your seven-leagued boots to make such speed."
Rainbow rubbed his glossy head against her hand, and looked
at her out of his yellow eyes with an almost human fondness.
" Oh, we do have such fun with Rainbow ! He is such a clever
old fellow, I wish he would be our cat and stay here," said Gracie
Jenkins, in her soft little voice.-
" Perhaps he had better," replied Chris, knitting her brows;
"if he has found a home where he is loved and wished for, he is
more fortunate than his mistress."
"Look ahere, Chris !" broke in Pauline, leaning her elbows on
the moss, and gazing at the face above her ; "look ahere ! you've
been crying ; your eyes are as red as fire! Now what's the mat-
ter ? I want to know. I wish I was a man; then! I do. I'd fix
the wretches!"

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       245

"I think life is all floating in tears," said Chris, drearily. "r
wish I dould go away to some place where there wasn't anybody.
I wish," she added, glancing up at. the moon, which hung pale
and clear in the deep azure ; " I wish I could go up to the moon."
"That's no place to be alone, you-silly Chris," retorted Pauline.
" Don't you see there is a man in it ?"
"So there is, you funny little thing," replied Chris, smiling
down upon her up-turned face, which with its sharp, black eyes,
little nez retrousse, and wicked, roguish look, afforded a piquant
study.
"Oh yes, very funny now ; sometimes Tam called a trouble-
some lttle thing, and Sabrina's maid, Racine, calls me 'little
nose;' she says I poke niy nose into all her affairs. I make her
awful mad sometimes, and I get mad, too. I did that time, all
about you. .I wished I 'was Blunderbore, to eat everybody up."
"Oh, Pauline ! how dreadful! You quite terrify me with such
confessions," exclaimed Chris, clasping her hands in pretended
fright ; "who was it ?"
"Dulcet Pettibone made a long tale to Captain Slocum about
how you spilt the things into Belle Brandon's. lap, and she was so
tickled that she squealed and laughed, and the Captain said 'haw,.
haw,' so hateful. I think they were real mean to make fun of
you, Chris. I love you and Rainbow, but I've thought how I can
pay them off."
"low ?" asked Chris, more amused at Pauline than hurt by
the reported merriment at her expense.
" Don't you wish you knew ?" replied the little lady, with an
elfin twirl, which set all her raven curls floating. "I'll tell you:.
I shall flirt with their sons, and break their hearts."
" What a brave little champion it is !" said Chris, laughing,
and trying to catch- her .in her airy dance. She might as well
have essayed to entrap a wandering breeze. Suddenly she
stopped.
" Moses ! what's that ?": shouted-she, reaching up and snatching
the drawing. " Why, Gracie ! if this isn't, us ! That's me and
my dolly, and that is you and Rainbow-all of us ; and look-a-


:4           WIDOWn GOLAMITH's. DAUGHTER.
here, Chris was ipttinrg Some verses 'on= the back side ; that's
about us too, I expose. I ,can't read writing myself, I-wish I
could ; Sabrina has got a lot of letters tied up with a blue ribbon
that I should like'ever so much to know What's into them; but it
all looks like hen's tracks to :me. I have heard, them say that
Chris could write pottery ; is this, pottery ?"
"Don't say pottery, Pauline," entreated gentle .Gracie. " Its
potry."
"No it isnt either; it is pottery. I guess I know."
" I guess I know, too. I've made some myself-only a short
little piece, but papa;liked it; he laughed and read it out loud to
mama, and she laughed, and said it was pooty."
" Poh ! I don't believe it," disputed Pauline, setting her feet
apart and resting her hands on her hips, and looking personified
incredulity.  " Let me hear it myself."
I knew a little girl, and she was pretty sick,
And she sent for my papa, and she died very quick."*
Chris laughed merrily. -"I should advise -you not to spread
that potry if you have any regard for your father's practice."
"That's .just what papa said ; but he laughed and squeezed me
ever so-"
"Come, come ! don't bother," broke in Pauline impatiently-
" I want to hear this that Chris 'Us been making. Read it out
loud."
" Hand it here then ; I have not got my old sight yet, and con-
sequently I can't see so far off; but this is not poetry, Pauline,
this, is only doggerel."
" What a lt of talk I when I want to be hearing," said P:auline
for answer.
Beneath a spreading apple-tree,
Two chattering little maidens see;
And why such bursts of merry laughter?
Such rippling, gushing,:joyous laughter?
Why, they're dressing up their pussy cat.
A'couplet,,written' by a doctor's daughter.

WIDOW    GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.247
"Oh, Gracie dear! this is such fun!
1Minbow likes it, or else he'd run.
Say Rainbow, don't you-like this 'dressing,
This fussing, fussy, baby dressing,
And all this petting and caressing?"
And Rainbow softly answers, "Purr"
the summer shadows deepening, lengthen,
Lengthen on the meadow grass ;
"Oh! it must 'e-gay to be young and happy,
The;rosy hours so merrily pass.
Two quiet, thoughtful little maidens,
Sit reading beneath the apple tree,
Their soft arms wreathed around each other,
Their fair young cheeks close pressed together,
A childish picture rare-to see.
Puss 'Rainbow,'arrayed in cap-and gown,
Lies at -his ease on his cushion'brown ;
Not bird on the tree,"nor mole under. ground
Are ought to him, he sleeps so sound;
But still in 'his dreams he says "Purr."
Pauline'and Gracie, you 'lo e each other,
Your fresh young souls-are linked together,
like.your raven curls, with the golden-brow-;
But I doubt if the very rarest pleasure,
Life metes you from her fullest measure,
Will be such an hour -of,joyous 'mirth,
As when on the scexited sumitrer turf,
You read your fairy 'story books,
And dressed up your cat in -pettieoats,
And heard him softly Purr."
"Very   nice indeed," said Pauline, with grave satisfaction.
" But I say, 'Chris, did'nt you call it doggerel ?"
" Yes, I believe I did ; have you any objection to the name"?"
" Yes I have, because it is'nt doggerel."
"No'" exclaimed Chris, prickin      up her ears, thinking she
was about to receive a delicate conplitnent, al the' more vanablu
from its sincerity.
" No, not a bit of 'it.  It is catterel, all about Rainbow."


248           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
Chris laughed softly, a few little merry, tinkling notes, exceed-
ing sweet and pleasant; though she laughed but seldom, she had
the art of making music when she did.
"Now I think," said a deep voice behind them, "that it narrowly
escaped being poetry."
Chris started up, very red, and turning quickly around, she
found Mr. Otho Groenveldt leaning leisurely against the old wall,
and taking in the whole ,scene with an ,air of quiet enjoyment.
The landscape, the rural quiet, gay flowers, and pretty children,
all pleased him, and lighted up his face with one of his rarely
pleasant smiles. As his eyes rested on Chris, she sank down
again, and plucked nervously at her gaping garments, and jerked
up her sun-bonnet, till then suffered to hang by its strings down
her back. Always at a disadvantage ! The only few times in
her life when she would have cared to look. well ; perched like a
tree-toad on the old wall, clothed like a scare-crow, and that har-
lequin cat at her side like a figure in a carnival ! She would have
liked to melt into a mist and disappear. With the bitterest mor-
tification, she regretted too late that she had not taken Ruth's ad-
vice, and made, hasty resolves for the future; but pity the poor
child, her trials were not nearly over ; careless habits, even at fif-
teen, are obstinate, and require a steady struggle. The well-
dressed young gentleman, leaning there so carelessly and looking
full in her face while he talked, seemed not a whit disturbed by
any uncomeliness or short-comings.
He took off his hat, and offered his ungloved hand with grave
courtesy.
" Might I be permitted to look at the sketch ?" asked he, smil-
ig, "siee I have played eaves-dropper to the catterel. I take
n uch merit to myself, I assure you; I'was greatly tempted to
commit the indiscretion of peeping."
,He stretched out his hand calmly as he made the request, as
though there could be no question of compliance, and Chris sur-
rendered it quietly, without a word of apology or objection. He
critically examined its details, and pointing to the wide spreading

wibow GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       249.

branches of the apple trees which Chris had,,sketched cleverly,
he said-
" There is a painting of three trees which is very famous-"
" Oh yes," interrupted Chris quickly, lighting up and forgetting
all about her appearance, "Rembrandt's picture--full of wind and
tempest, and dark thunder-clouds, but with the sun setting in
glorious brightness, breaking through them in strange bewildering
gleams, almost supernatural effulgence, and such a deeply shad-
owed foreground that it looks like a haunt for those dreary witches
the Germans are so fond of bringing into their stories. But I
don't like Rembrandt. He was a-miser ! I despise misers," she
added with bitter vehemence.
While she talked, she had busied her fingers in divesting Rain-
bow of his mardi-gras costume, and he laid his head in her lap,
resting it on his outstretched fore" paws, and keeping fearless
watch of the stranger out of. his yellow eyes, with their line of
green fire in the middle: as not' yet fully assured of his righteous
behavior.
" This is a vigorous sketch, Miss Goldsmith," said Otho, with
the faintest flicker of an amused smile playing around his mouth
at the easy way in which she had taken up and aired the topic he
had offered her. " A very vigorous sketch. You have thought
much about nature, and have also profited much from the instruct,
tions of a master."
"My father taught me, sir ; we were to have gone abroad when
I was sixteen."  She ended her sentence with a deep sigh, and a
shadow chased the shine from her ever changing face.
"And you were sixteen how many years ago."
" Not yet, sir; only fifteen I hope, with so much to learn and
so little done," she replied, surprised, a little piqued, and looking
fill into his questioning eyes. He caught the rich glow on her
face, and the deepening intense expression the "so much to learn"
brought into it, which may have been his intention.
" Oh yes, of course. I was stupid to ask such a question, as
.well as a little improper, perhaps. I should have remembered


25O.        WnOW GOLDxSiffwrn's DTVIrniTU

that ag eis a taboed subject.z I 3-Hope I am;forgiven. And you
have still the wish to see German mountains ?"
" Wish,! that faintly expresses it. ;I long-to go there. I Would
travel barefoot, and beg my way like the Palmers."
" A Saint Jaques'. pilgrim, that barefoot plods the cold ground
upon, with sainted vow, her faults to have amended. God save
you,}pilgrim!"F
He bowed low, and got blushes, but no answering salutation.
She was vexed with herself for putting the teazing words into
his mouth. He was evidently amusing his leisure by making her-
talk, though with theirgravest 'of eyes.
" And when you don your cockle hat and shoon, and humbly
tell your beads, and take your alms, will you also know your Ber-
tran, think you?"
"11know qnite well when I-am laughed at, sir,' even though the-
ridicule be- as quiet as yours," replied:she with spirit. "I dare,
say I. deserve it, but neither you nor any one else can comprehend
my feelings on this subject. It.has been my dream of happiness
ever since I can remember. It wasencouraged by thebest friend
I had, and the memory of the plans; and projects which gave me
such unmixed delight, is' one of my few holy things."
"On the contrary, Miss Goldsmith, I believe I do understand
you perfectly, and I assure you I had no intention to laugh at
you; but the pilgrim suit befits you less than the violet crown.
Better -Sappho than Helena. Let me see=-you are fifteen, you
say. I think you may wait five years, and pass the intervening
time with profit. Then I believe you ,may'realize your ardent
desires. I have a presentiment that I shall greet you there."
"If I could but believe you a true prophet, sir!" S'he smiled
incredulously, and shook her head.
"I am willing to ;stand by my opinions, Sappho, at any.rate.
Come, I'll wager this ring," pointing to an emerald on his finger,
" against that ebony pencil you hold, that I shake hands with you
on an alp five years from this-evening, which is°the twentieth of
May."  He took a little memorandum book from his pocket.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.             -251,
" Lend me your pencil, Miss Christabel. I should like to try it
on this important entry."
Chris watched him curiously while he wrote.
" Do you take my wager ?" asked he, smiling.
"One may not bet upon certainties," she answered, trying her
best to understand his odd manner.
"Indeed; where did you pick up that piece of information?
You regard your journey as certain, then ?"
" Oh-no, indeed, sir ; quite the contrary."  She shook her head
mournfully.
" Nevertheless I feel assured that on the alp I will restore this
sketch;" here he put the drawing and the memorandum book
carefully in his pocket, and handed back. her pencil with a bow
of thanks. " We will get our supper of black bread and chamois
steak, which I shall have shot in the morning, secretly, among a
party of wild schuts, (that is, the chamois, not the steak,) and
afterwards I will ask you to add to this slketch another picture-
(you will be a fine artist by that time, fit to go to Rome)-and
I will permit yon to put your idea of me and my wife into oils,
(if it has the merit I expect,) in our Tyrolean costume, peaked hat,
short coat, hob-nailed shoes for me, and velvet bodice, short striped
petticoat and broad brimmed straw for her.".
"Your wife," repeated Chris, in secret trouble she was not
conscious of showing to him, scarcely of feeling.
"Yes," he replied, gazing quietly at her. " Oh yes, my wife.
'If thou ait to have a wife of thy youth, she is somewhere in the
world ; therefore pray for her,' says Tupper. I feel sur-e there is
one for me, therefore I have chosen without waiting for that ; and
you will have to confess she is a lovely lady. I must serve for
her as Jacob did for Rachel, not quite so many years, I hope,, and
my task master will be the public. Marriage now-a-days means
something more than it .did in the days of the patriarchs," he
went on, as if in answer to a thought, and studying -Chris covertly
the while. "Now    it signifies a free-stone palace, with bird-
cage conservatories filled with exotics, and vast grounds laid out
in labyrinthine walks, shaded by rustling pines; a house in town,

I


WIDOW GOLDSMiTr'S DAUGHTER.

and opals and, diamonds, and an opera lox, and credit at Lord &amp;
Taylor's, and carriages and horses, and servants in livery, and
pictures, and statues, and Saratoga and Newport-and Paris."
" Oh, I could enjoy all that ; I ought to have it!" exclaimed
Chris suddenly. She was looking afar off, with dreamy eyes, as
if she saw herself floating in luxury and filled with delight at the
gorgeous vision, so contrasted with her bare meagre existence.
"You !" ;aid Otho, studying her intently, exulting in  secret.
"-You, the poet, artist' maiden ! reared in'this nweet seclusion."
" Don'tplease," answered she, looking down; and folding her
hands over Rainbow. "You make me say such ridiculous things.
But how can you who have had realities to feed your soul upon,
comprlend my vain longings. I am every day upbraided with
being a dreamer. I should be glad to leave off dreaming 'and
commence living. I am sure I could enjoy, could appreciate such
a life as you picture-plenty and leisure, and books, and art, and
travel-. ' I1 would suit me ; I should like to try it. There 'is noth-
'lug absurd in desiring it, though I see such astonishment in your
face ; and= vhat wonder !" she added bitterly, her eyes resting
upon her formless gown and the great basket at her feet.
" My wife will have all that, and more. She'shall tell you on
the Alp how she likes it. Do you think she will be happy ?"
"I cannot give you an opinion," she answered quietly. "I am
not wise enough. I do not think it is necessary to be married to
be happy. One can come and go and do as one likes, and be
free, with money.. At any rate, I feel sure that marriage needs
something more than all you promise your wife, to make it happy."
" Indeed ; and what, may I -ask ?
"- 'Love, respect, repose, satisfaction, concord, mutual giving and
receiving."
"And do you mean to say that ali these will not be included in
mv marriage.?",
" I mean that they were not set forward in ycur statement, and
were so far in the background in the picture you drew, as to be
out of sight."
"'Well answered, Sappho, wisely, most discreetly, and you are

not an anthropologist."  He looked curiously at her, wondering
how she would 'answer, even if she would comprehend him.
" Does -it suit you, sir,' that monstrous doctrine ? are you will-
ing to be 'only another animal ?'" questioned she indignantly.
" Well no, Sappho, I cannot say that I am quite satisfied to ' be-
long to the great brotherhood of vitality,' though the ' where,
whence, and whither' is ingenious. I have pride enough in my
manhood to make me cling to the 'exceptional origin."'
" I ain thankful, sir, to my dear papa that he. taught me his
creed-' I believe in God the Father Almighty, and in his Son
Jesus Christ," she said reverently. " If one must be a 'grade of
vitality,' vegetable nature would be nicer, because then one might
be a flower."
" Yes, a. pansy, Sappho."
She smiled uneasily;: he looked grave, pleasant ; bu.t somehow
she felt as if he was -amusing himself with her,--he tapped his
breast with his finger.-
" But you have not yet told me, little wanderer among strange
doctrines, whether or no you will agree to my conditions, and
confide to me this sketch to be restored, time.and place appointed."
" A thing already disposed of, and hidden from sight, can scarce-
ly after that be confided to the hider. You bring me back to my
cruel position, which I'had altogether forgotten while you talked
with me. You remind me that I have lost my best, my only
friend, and 'am helpless and alone. I shall never leave Roaring
River, however much I desire it. I am  chained as firmly as
Prometheus to his rock, and almost as pleasantly."
"Still you venture nothing in giving me a promise never to ask
me for your three trees, till I restore them of my own free will,
after the supper, when we sit on the porch, L and my wife beside
me; and also to make that other picture which I find. I greatly
desire. The Groenveldts as Tyroleans."
"If the scribble you profess to beg. of me, when it is already
safe beyond my reach, has any value, you may add it to another
worthless trifle which you have in your possession."
" Ah, that poem I:that charming little pastoral,' said he, plac-

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

253

252.


WIDOW GOLSMITII'S-DAUGHTE R.

ing his hand nconseiously over his-breast pocket. Yu forget that
it became mine when I1rmarried it to music, but I will be miag-
nanirnous.  You shall have both at the same time, and. you shall
sing our song to your guitar, while I smoke in the moonlight;
the lights are wondrously 'lovely on those alps. The narrow
valleys, where the roads come to be mere bridle paths, and then,
but threads up the mountain sides, the sounding water-falls, and
the deep dark pools among the rocks, the steep pineelad rhoun-.
tains, rising solemn and grand. Tne queer houses with their long
fanciful balconies overhanging the abrupt declivities, the quiet
churches with their pointed steeples, the lonely shrines, the wind:
mills, and 'the -pretty burying grounds, all these show well in the
moonlight. We shall see such sights from our alp." .
While Otho went on talking, descanting, describing, and- with-
out absolute questions, drawing her into his talk,' Chris suffered
her, eyes to rest on his face as if he had been really the old famil-
iar friend, he had told her up at Craigenfells he aspired to be, and
she entered into the pleasure with zest, nay, with sunny expansive
good humor, and girted with the topics lie offered her, tossing
them airily about among odd conceits, and whimsical suggestions.
Ie, outwardly grave and cool, secretly wondering at and ad-
miring the witty thoughts and their graceful word clothing, and
he was startled at the sudden shutting in of her radiant face, as
Rainbow rose hastily: thus disturbing her pleasure, breaking it
up as a pebble troubles the mirrowed'picture in a sunny lake, and
she bought herself back from dreamland,' and sank into an ab-
sorbed reverie, with fixed eyes and expressionless obscured vis-
age, her fingers plucking idly among the dried mosses at her side.
Rainbow rose and darted away on a private errand. You see
one day when he was wandering up and down in the woods, he
came upon a blue racer, who was sitting on her tail and swallow-
ing her young ones ; he watched the proceeding in ferocious as-
tonishment, while she, having disposed of her brood, looked him in
the eye, and her throat stuck outlike a fishing cormorant's-pouch.
He rose to expostulate with her upon her cannibal propensities;
she waived the argument and disappeared in a hollow stump.

254

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              255
eften and often had: Rainbow pawed and smelt around that stump
in the hope of daring that wretched mother out to battle ; and
just now, lying upon his mistress lap, for some unaccountable rea-
son, a vision of the horrible gourmandism dashed over him in. a
fresh light, and he set off on a keen jump to stir up the blue
racer, and force her to explain be.r hideous conduct.
While they had been talking, the sun had declined, and the
children had carried their fun and baby-things elsewhere. Miss
Sabrina Bradshaw, being moved by the spit it of unrest, saunt-
ered out at the great hall door for a walk. She had on a clear
pale violet dress, exquisitely fitted and fashionably cut, her round
hat crowned with its ivy wreath, swinging from her arm, by its
tied strings, her wavy locks put up in ;elaborate empress braid-,
not a pin wanting, not a thread awry. She was a very hand-
some girl despite her red hair. Her skin was like pure marble,
her features, clear-cut and faultlessly regular, and her figure tall
and graceful. As Chris caught sight of her, sailing down the
avenue, utter dumbness took possession-of her, and she withdrew
into her shell, and clasped the lids hastily together. The sense
of her shabby dovsdyness overwhelmed her .afresh, by contrast,
and she colored up to her hair, as she glanced furtively at Otho,
and fidgeted, andsought around her with her frightened wild deer
look, as if about to dart away. Sabrina came eagerly up, as.soon
as she espied her, both hands extended, and her face beaming.
"Naughty girl! why did you run off without asking for ine?"
Chris stammered something about being in a hurry.
"I-should think so," replied Sabrina, laughing. '-You look like
it.  Ah, Mr. Groenveldt ! To the brave belong the fair. You
see I have not forgotten our merry game of proverbs up at lirs.
Blair's. Am I to believe you the magnet who drew Chris away
from our hospital abode, which would also.have, opened to your
sesame."
"Not at all, I assure you Miss Bradshaw.  I'n only accessory
after the fact. There was ' goodlie companies' here assembled
when I arrived, and much merriment. So' far from  being to
blame for detaining Miss Chris, I assure you she has woven dan-


256        winow GLODSIT1'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSITl'S DAUGHTER.

gerous spells and enchantments to hold me. She has spirits of
earth and air in her command, triksey Preck and dainty Ariel,
Night-star and Honey Bell obey her call."
"-I cannot doubt it sir. I have felt her bewildering charm of.
ten," replied Sabrina, laughing.
" I consider three an uncanny number, anid must break up the
triangular confab," said a merry voice. Chris started and turned
about hastily ; could it be?  Yes, it certainly was, her brother
Chandps, gay, good humored, strikingly handsome, and perfectly
dressed. Such a brother as a girl might be very proud of, but
she made no move to greet him, and instead faced short around,
and fastened her eyes resolutely on the moss below her, and an
aug ry frown darkened her face. Otho glanced curiously f. om one
to the other.
"Hallo, Chris ! Ain't you going to say, 'how-dy,' to a fellow ?"
called out Chandos pleasantly; going up and seizing her unwil-
ling hand, which he shook heartily. " Here's a' tall young lady
I should like to-get presented to, (bowing to Sabrina,) I used to
know little Saby, but aw ! this gorgeous creature in purple and
fine linen, really."  He took off his cap and bent to the ground.
" And this is Mr. Groenveldt ?  I see I must be my own usher,
as no one else seems to find it worth while to take the office. I
heard from one of our fellows, about the Art School. Slaughton
is going there in tl:e autumn.   Ruth Blair told me you were in
town, but she erred, inasmuch as she appended the false statement
that you had gone up to Craigenfells."
"Happy to meet you," he added, offering his perfectly shaped
hand, comely and smooth, on the third finger of which he wore a
handsome seal-ring. He spoke in an easy, confident way, taking
the measure of his new acquaintance, -lookingshun full in the face,
out of his 'well-opened merry eyes. As he turned 'again to Chris
with a saucy glance, she mumbl-d somet'hii  unintelligibly, and
slid off the wall and siood leaning against it, and fidgeting with
her pencil, winding it up in her bonnet string, as if hei life de-
pended upon its accurate adjustment. Sorrowful, troubled, angry,
shy, angular, awkward ; as unlike her happy self of half an hour

before, when she was lapped in dream land, expanding like a bird
in sunshine, as she could possibly be. Otho sheltered her embar-
rassment and Sabrina, without seeming to observe it, led the talk
aily. She and thoughtless rattling Chandy tilted wits, and
raked up memories with an interchange of telling' hits. '"They
were well,; matched, and old wranglers, and unsparing of each
other, ani Chris; under the pressure of her tumultuous thoughts
could not help enjoying some of the hard raps her brother got.
The orchard gate swung open quickly, and Peter Bradshaw,
pere camie hastening along with great strides, his brows knitted
and his eyes fixed upon a cluster of apple-blossoms he held in his
land.
" Whither away so fast, Mon Pere ?" asked Sabrina, with con-
fident sauciness.
He stopped at her voice, and his face cleared with a smile.
She went up to him and clasped her hands, easily over his arm,
after presenting her friends, whom he greeted with great cordiality.
" What is the matter now Papa?   You are frowning quite
savagely at those pretty flowers. I'm sure they look sweet and
innocent"
"Matter enough, my dear, these spiteful pismires are making
their plans to eat the hearts out of all my early red' streaks.
"You should obey the precept, 'Go to- the ant, thou sluggard
consider her ways and be wise.
"No occasion for taking the trouble, my dear, the ant comes to
me. I do consider her ways to my cost, and devilish piratical-
red-flag kind of ways I find them to be. 'Tis astonishing how
a-
many enemies we peaceably' disposed farmers have to fgit.
What the canker worm' spares, the catepillar dooms,'and these con-
founded pismires ! there goes one of the slim-waisted, shiny, black
coated rascals now. If 'I, go to brush him 'off my sleeve, he'll
bite like a serpent. Why, their name is legion, they go up an
down like roaring lions.
"I don't hear them roar, papa," laughed Sabrina. "I suppose
that was only a figure of' speech, but what ever 'is, is right, you
know. Hunger obeys n6 laws. Necessity is a powerful weapon:

257


258        WIoW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WiDOW GOLD$MPI'8 DAUG[TE~R.'     259

Anger is 'a brief=madness. He conquers a second time who coa.
trols himself in victory."
"Why,2you reel off your proverbs as glibly as Sancho Pauza!,
my daughter," (picking up her hand and kissing it.)
"-Oh, yes Papa, but I've a 'friend who can give you them in a
dozen -different tongues," smiling across, at Christabel.
"It isgood to be merry, my beauty, but you will laugh the
other side of your mouth cif the apple crop fails. You arrant
devourerof ripe fruit.  Eli, Chandy ?  Remember the paring
bees. Why,.how do, Christabel, you are a. great stranger, and
are really getting quite.a woman, and how like: you are to Fred
Goldsmith!' You need not hide your blushes, they are very
pretty."
Chris was hiding more than blushes, her eyes were full of tears.
The kind, whole souled ways of excellent Peter Bradshaw with
his :showy daughter, who hung about. him so fondly, made her
owh loneliness more drearily forlorn.
.Come to supper, young people," said the farmer hospitably,
as :he walked away. "Have a little dance in the evening, if.you
like. I hav'nt forgot how to fiddle, and Pete promises-to out do
his. father on the cat-gut. Yes, yes, my darling, violin," he contin-
ued 'in answer to a whisper from Sabrina, "but it used to be fiddle
in my day."
Chandy declined laughingly, but. promised soon to appear at'
theinansion, and he and Otho shook'hands with Mr. Bradshaw,
who hurried offto fight some of' his numerous enemies, and the-
four young people strolled out into the beaten way-side path,
Chandy and Sabrina leading the way.
Chemin faisant, they came upon a-sharp angle the road makes,
between Roaring 'River and Millville proper, which angle was,
sheltered by a great oaks and defined the- extent of the Walsing-
ham estate, which juts out here into a queer little corner. A
close trimmed hedge of arbor vitae, having arches and doors cut
in its clipped 'greenery, gave =glimpses of the grounds within:
pleasant and extensive, but not kept up like Peter Bradshaw's.
On thelawnwere clustered a group of young girls, holding mal-

lets in their:gloved hands, dknoeking the balls about while they
talked. They had evidently just finished 'their game,:and :were
planning something else. Instantly they fluttered forth "to greet
the new c-mers, and thereupon ehsued such a burst ,Of Musical
chatter, 'and such;a.grouping of pretty attitudes, suth sharp on-
trasts of coloring and expression, as would have killed painter
with artistic frenzy.  Piquant black-eyed little Zoe, the gay
hostess, With :her'brilliait: cheeks and crimson garments. The
dimpled soft freshness of Belle Brandon's blonde. 'beauty,in dress
of -palestazure, -with Mary Ann Williais, 'on whom she fondly
and rather heavily -leaned, as' set 'off and 'foil. Susie Jenkins)
timid and gentle, 'a delicate composition of -exqgisite 'prettiness.
Sabrina,'the, queenly,of the amber.dropping-locks, and violet Lobe.
It was a distracting sight ,for the.young men given ver ,to the
dazzling spectacle.
A fact developed itself at length; 'filtered as it'were frem the
rippling -harmony of the freshyoung voices. They were bent on
a walk up Prospect Hill, 'a lofty plateau, -which 'required 'a.half
hour's 'climb to'enjoy the .sunset. The new arrivals must willy
nilly .go ,also. Chandy 'and Sabrina consented -nimbly, always
eager for amusement. 'Chris 'hung back, and would gladly have
stolen away from the supercilious glances ?which Belle Brandon
shot :at her, 'out of Nher artless blucjeyes.
"Are you going with us' ?" asked the blonde ; she thrust -out
her Polish 'boot'-so'as to bring it under Chandy's visions and eyed
'Chris over fromm the sunbonnet to the white-shoe-strings.
" I'm going home as fast as I can," replied Chris, blushing up
to the roots of her hair.
" Miss=Goldsmith:is-myguest,"'said Sabrina,{rather(haughtily,
while sheseized both Chris' hands. "I, shallragreeably coe'ceher.
You have come one mile to see me, now Ishall compel;you to go
twain.'I have the rights o do that. yourknow. Youmnst go."
" Ihad=rather not," faltered Chris, trying 'to free her"hands,
and feeling utterly wretched -tnd,'out: 6f .place. '.Please let :me
ooSeaau
:Sabrina saw that ' heavws=near' crying, but .would notelease

II

dI


260        WIDOW GOLDS WITH'SS DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAJJGHTER.        2e1:

her. " Do you despise me utterly, that you shun me so !" asked
she, half proudly, half imploringly. "Come let me be your friend,
I wish it so much."
Chris threw a swift, shy look at the splendid figure before her,
and then at the friendly eyes which sought hers, and a soft smile
wreathed her lips, though she still shrank away and shook her
head.
How shall the superb Paradise bird mate with the brown
wren," said she.
"cOh, you queer Chris," spoke up Sabrina, dropping a kiss upon
,her cheek, and walking off to reclaim her glove which Chandos
had picked up, and was making great show of pressing to his lips.
Nobody heard this little by-talk between the two- girls, be-
cause they had both turned their backs upon Belle Brandon, and
scarcely, spoke above a breath.
" What a, grotesque specimen of wooden image it is, to be
sure, odder than ever," Belle murmured to her foil, throwing at
the same instant a glance of bewitching simple gushingness, right
into the eyes of grave Otho, which beauteous effulgence was en-
tirely lost, for though he returned her glance, he was entirely oc-
cupied in thinking over the conversation at the old wall, and he
wheeled about just as the tempting lips- and dimples were ar-
ranged to accost him, and went up to Chris, and began speaking
in a low serious tone, taking hold of her hand. He had read her
thoughts, and saw how-she intended to slip. away unperceived,
and with the movement both quick and sedate; which was pecu-
liar to him, he said:
" Let us go, Sappho. Do not refuse. Indeed, I do not see well
how we can help going It will make you too conspicuous, if I
leave the party and walk away with you,: which I certainly shall
do, if you are obstinate."
"Needs must,.I- suppose, when somebody drives," said Chris,
and her eyes sought his hastily, frightened at her impertinent
speech, and fearing that she had offended him.
"Quite true," he returned quietly, "and accept my thanks It is
the somebodyso who have the right to drive. Of course the
nobodys are incapable. You and I are somebodys."

Candy began counting; "how many are we? one, two, three,
four,"
"And an.odd one," said Belle in a low voice, but not so-low
as to escape Chandy's ear, who,- looked at her.  She was
laughing, as were Zoe and Mary Ann Williams, and all three had
their eyes fixed on Chris.
The exquisite youngster winced a little, but laughed ,also; and
he fastened a bold gaze upon Belle Brandon, which ought to
have caused her to drop her eyes, but did not.
Sabrina walked quickly up to Chris. " I am going to stay in
your neighborhood; these chatterers are uttering such a deal of
nonsense."
"-Better tarry among your equals," said Belle; "those two only
talk in polysyllables."
Otho answered her. "A French writer has defined equality to
mean, 'a desire to. be equal to your superiors and superior to
your equals."'
a.That's jnst my case," replied Sabrina, bowing; -"therefore,
Mr. Groenveldt, I'll take your arm if you please."
" Oh, for something wooden, whereon I might express applause,"
said Zoe. "Ah, here is a block-head," She crooked her brown
fingers, and saucily tapped Chandy's sconce.
"You will find yourself in block-ade, and compelled to surren-
der," exclaimed Chandy, "if you are not nimble." He extended
his arms, as.if to enclose her within them, but she slipped through
like an eel, and cried out, with crimson cheeks:
" For shame, Chandos Goldsmith ! You are more impudent
than ever. I wish you would take your block-head back to school
again."
As everybody always enjoyed seeing saucy Zoe paid off for
her tricks, there was much merriment at her expense.
The group moved on,.raking up old jokes of boy and, girl fun,
belonging to the period when they went berrying on the hillsides,
the girls in pinafores, and the boys displaying their. plump pro-
portions in roundabouts.

I


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       263

Othq conversed with Sabrina, and sawalblrChri s motions with-
out looking at her. Comforted by this voiceless championship,so
new to her, she struggled; hard' to dominate herself' so as not to
dishonor it.
About. half way: up they: sate down; in-. the: slant sunshine,
upon a pile of rocks, to rest and enjoy the backward view of the-
homesteads.ans the; hillsides. Belle separated herself from the
foil, and artlessly waited; admiring the prospect, with pretty ejac,
ulations and wide-opena eyes, till; all were seated; then shethrew
herself down .beside Chandos, and turned: her face. toward- him,
and made dimples, and; showed her, teeth, and talked with Zoe,
.across him, in a state of simple innocence beautiful to. behold:;
and my lord Chandos.did behold and enjoy, nothing loath.
",Stop! stop ! Mr. Butterfly," called out Sabrina, " and' tell us
where; you came from,"' pointing. to a. magnificent: fellow, sailing
before. them on his downy-wings. "Yoare out of season, sir."-
"As unseasonable as a lace hat in January, Monsieur Papillon."
Belle made a, graceful spring, which was only effectual in showing
her arms from which:her open. sleeves fell. back, and her taper
waist and sank down, pouting,
"Ungrateful, wretch, not to appreciate, such an attention,"
laughed Chandy. "I shall behave quite.-differently, Miss Bran
don, when you try: to catch me.'"
"What: are you; to do for. lilies to rest -on,. and set off your
color?"  said Zoe. "Don't you know you have wakened too soon?
You will creep back into- your-house and stay till the roses and
posies:come, ifryou.will take, the advice of a-looker-on in Venice."
" In. Vienna" suggested. Chris,,unconsciously.
" Did you make that remark as a correction, Miss Goldsmith,?"
asked, Belle, pointedly.
"It is Vienna," replied : Chris, shortly, and with an angry flush.
" Come, I'll bet you;a hat of that," called out Chandos. " It
reads. looker on in Venice. in, my book, and that is a 1633 folio,
Heminge and,:CongelV'
All agreed that Chandy was right, except Othoi who smiled at'
Chris, and said nothing.  '"

"You have not spoken, Mr. Groenveldt ;" Sabrina bowed po-
litely.
"J think I must coincide with Miss Goldsmith ;- she is certainly
correct, as usual," he added, with a courteous hand-gesture.
'That is not proven," said Belle;;"but we will' waive the ar-
gument till a future time, unless Miss Goldsmith has her Cbn-
cordance in her pocket, which I should think not at all. unlikely;
she has the reputation of cramming voluminously."
"In the meantime there'- goes the butterfly,"' said' Sabrina,
making haste to speak. "Look, how exactly he is the color of
those dead leaves. How I wish I' understood butterfly-ology; 'I
am sure you can tell me, Chris, if you only will be so kind, his
name."
Chris hesitated, and while she twisted her - bonnet-strings she
looked from Belle to Chandos, and' answered so low as only to be
heard by-the two who were on either.side of her,
" It is a Telea polyphernus, one of the American silk-worm
family, and a remarkably large specimen. They are night-moths,
and rarely seen flying about by daylight. It is not uncommon
for them to come out at this time of year, but they mostly break
their cocoons in June."
" How did you find out all that,-Chris? ' Tell me what books
to buy, and. I will have them, directly."
" I gathered the worms, and let them spin themselves up, and
watched them .come out of their pupa state. , It was very curi-
ous; I cut a hole in the cocoon and covered it with a piece of
glass, which I glued fast-so as to keep out the air, and I saw the
whole transformation. That fellow would be a beautiful specimen
to keep, he is so wonderfully marked and so perfect."
" Catch that vagrant," Chandos," called out Sabrina, authorita-
tively,; "we want him."
"Shall I ?" said Chandy, tearing off his cap and giving chase.
"Nbw, sir, make good use of those great brown fliers of yours,
because I intend to have you for your hide and tallow, Sabrina
is going into that line, and I'm to worry in thereatures."

IDGW GOLD9 MI h-i'S. -DAUGHT R.

H


4WIDOw GOLDSMITr'S DAUGHTER.

:  DOW GOLDSUITI'HS DAUGHTER.

They all laughed,' except Otho and Chris. who hated to see the
butterfly spoiled. He knew how to take care of himself very
weil, however, and soared away to a high branch of the old oak,
where he sat flapping his great wings; while Master' Chandy,
who in looking too high had stumbled over a loose pebble, and so
gotten a fall, wiped the dirt off his knees, ard replaced, his cap,
-and dropped panting into his seat, very clo e indeed to Miss
Brandon, who kept her ground nobly, nothing daunted.
All at once there " arose so wild a yell," anon sinking low and
plaintive, and then swelling in thrillingcrescendo on C sharp, with
shakes and agitatos, and then lamenting in minor capriccios, mel-
pncholy, heart-breaking as the wail Dante heard in the second
sphere.
"Oh, what is that ?" choruses the girls, starting to their feet.
" That is the.tragic mews, I should say, several of them," re-
plied Chandos, pointing to Rainbow, seated composedly under a
pine tree beneath the hill, and listening with a stoical countenance
to the harangue of a sable individual who was making a half-
circle of himself in front of him, and flourishing his tail wildly in
the circumambient air. Just as he had arrived at his peroration,
Chandy picked up a stone and crooked his elbow to shy it at him.
"You mustn't, that's Rainbgw," said Sabrina, staying his hand,
and smiling over at Chris, who had risen, and stood a little'back,
leaning absently against a rock, and plucking at the 'dried ascle-
pias stalks.
"A silver penny for your thoughts, Miss Goldsmith," said the
Brandon, on purpose to make everybody turn and look., "They
must' be such valuable ones;,'oh, that mine enemy had written a
book.'
As she foresaw, they allstared at poor Chris, who twisted her
shoulders angrily, and frowned at Belle, and wished she was fur-
ther.
"When .I write one," said she, "I'll put you in for first villain."
" Don't mislay your 'temper, cdear," laughed Belle, merrily.
"Our Chris don't carry her thoughts in her hand for daws to
peck at," said Sabrina, rising and putting her arm around Chris,

who shrank away, and looked annoyed and foolish, and kept ob-
stinate silence.
Chandos glanced from one to another, making mental compar-
isons. Chris caught him  at it: "There! now :he 'is-wish-
ing he had a sister who wasn't a cow, I suppose," thought
she, and she felt very bitter and 'unsisterly toward the handsome
fellow.
" Can't you air your tongue ?". he broke out atelength. :"Sabrina
Bradshaw is talking to you. Do leave those weeds alone, and
say something."
Otho darted a look at Sir John, and his short upper lip curled.
Chris saw it, and hating to be pitied, most- of all by him,she
nerved herself to say in a clear, steady voice, ignoring Miss
Brandon, who came close up and looked expectantly in her face,
,as if getting ready for -a great treat, and addressing herself to her
brother:
"Since you develop an unexpected' desire to' hear me talk,
Ohandos, I will tell you whatlI was thinking when I was offered
'the prie; not because you have any right to my thoughts,' which
are private property, but because you address' me so politely. I
was thinking how pleasant it would be. to stay all summer.on an
Alp, and hear the echos, and the-waterfall music, and climb about
with an alpen .stock, and see the senerins milk  their cows, and
heait them jodel to each other when the setting °sun glints!behind
the pines."'
"Oh yes," broke in Mary Ann, brightening up, delighted at
having something to say ; "oh yes, I know about jodles;' we used
to have a German' girl who made them for soup-she 'took sonie
eggs, and some flour, and kneaded- them up and cut them out'ixto
very thin, small strips, and dried them a little';' they was deli
v'qus'
The girls exchanged glances, and Belle Brandon laughed con-
temptuously.
Those are noodles," :said- Otho, politely. "!The Germans
make great use of them, as Well as- the 'French, who call. them

I,,

Z64,

X65


266        WIDOW GOLMITW'S PAUGITER.

nomu'les. They are, as yo; justly say, excellent, to.i I car testify,
having made many a dinner off them."
"You ought to be a judge of noodles, I'm sure," said Miss
Brandon to her dear friend and foil,with a sneer.
Chandy burst into a thoughtless laugh, not sQ  nch at the
words as. the funny twist, she gave her handsome face ii saying
them.
Poor Mary. Annlooked confused, and felt snubbed , though she
did not clearly understand bow. Otiho proposed walking on, and
he and Chris kept by the side of the poor girl the rest of the
way, 'and"he helped her up the rugged path, and chatted with her,
or. rather permitted. her to chat with him, a kindness which she
nover forgot, and which Chris had cnse afterwards to remember.
Chris, who walked silently along, thinlug .how truly good ,ud4
noble he.was, and how. pleasant it must be to ave such - brother,;
and she sighed and then flushed indignantly as she glanced ,at
handsome 'Chandy, laughing and flirting with, Belle Brandon in
his Grand Seignoir manner. That blonds beauty was not at
ease, either, for she could make nothing of the cool fellow who
took her as a: mattertf course, and she got very. spiteful toward
Sabrina and Zoe because of their easy, familiar, old-friend footing
with the bird she wished .to bag for herself.
It was a hard. climb, but a pleasant one, along the winding-
path, defined byold; grayrocks, shut i with alders and dogwood.
And the evening song of the bob-o'-link and whip-poor-will rose
fitfully and mingled with the farm, noises below them; and the
girls were rosy and breathless when they reached; the top, just in
time to catch the golden glory of the slant crimson beams on tl
forest, and the anber curtaining q f the clopd palaces, tley then
selves standing out clear an l well-defined in the glowing light;
charming figures in the foreground of a most charming picture.
During the little chorus of exclamations whith ensued, dainty,
thoughtless, spoilt Chandy went up to Chris, who stood apart
with Qtho. and Mary Ann, acd said in a careless, good-humored,
teazing way, which, eirely ignore4 the pos'bi ty of le, hyinu
any feelings to hurt:

WIDOW GOLDSMITh'S DAUGH1sR.               261
" I say, Miss Goldsmith, is that your best toggery!? There,
don't flare up, now ; you remind me of Beauty, the good daughter,
who spoke pearls and diamonds. I'll hold my cap if you are
about to utter some now."  He pushed his cap under her chin, as
one catches water-drops from a spout.
Chris dashed it away in a nice passion, and flashed in his face
a scorching glance out of her great brown eyes, which Otho had'
studied at the old wall, so meek and wistful; andtChandos wheeled
about on his high. heels, like a ballet-master, and laughed heartily.
Chris and her brother were, as we know, not on the best of terms.
He, boy like, had always considered her a safe target for his wit,
for all manner of sharp sayings and biting jokes which he dared'
not practice on any one else ; all which she deeply resented and
treasured up against him. His heedless way Of blurting out his
opinions was especially offensive to her sensitive nature; and- he,
the mirror of exactness and delicacy in toilette, (having been nice
from a baby, as his mother boasted.) was much put out by her
shiftless, careless, never-mind habits.
Otho heard and saw, and a slight frown contracted his dark
forehead, and the shadow of a secret thought passed over his face
making it graver than ever; but he stopped the retort which he
saw in Chris's eyes, stepping up to her 'with studied deferer ce,
and bowing to Chandy.
"Excuse the interruption, Mr. Goldsmith, but are not these
sandstones a fine study?  Suppose we persuade Bertha to come
up here to-morrow and try our artist powers upon them, for a
second ride upon Zephyr. The trailing vines which hang so pic-
turesquely about them;-are they- arbutus ?"
"No," answered Chris, shortly, "it is Indian clover."'
I wish yon-would promise to show me some arbutu , Miss
Chris, said Otho, smiling, not at all discouraged by her discour-
teous brevity. "I have read Rose Terry's charming poem, and
I should like to study the inspiration."
"Look here, Sir John Chatndos," called out Sabrina, gaily ; he'
was standings on the edge of 'the 'mossy 'platform, from whence
she could see the valley of Roaring River, and the distant towns,

4


'WIDOW GOLDSMITRI'S DAUGHTER     269

looking like hamlets, and the checkered fields, and the sandy-road
winding between its lofty. pollards. " Look here, I'm going to do
something romantic, worthy the time and place, and give you the
opportunity to glorify your prowess and your chivalry."
She raised her handkerchief, a delicate -bit of lace and embroi-
dery, (Miss 'Sabrina was dainty in her handkerchiefs,) and ex-
claimed in mock heroics:
".-My kingdom and my mouchoir for the brave hero who shall
dare to reclaim it from the birds, who will undoubtedly be glad to
mince it for their nests."
She waved it, airily held between her little thumb and fingers,
over the precipice, her shapely head turned, and her laughing,
mockingeyes fixed on Chandy, who made a grimace and thrust
his hands into his pockets.
Belle Brandon, curiously envious of Miss Bradshaw's perfect
toilette, quite as elegant as 'her own, and so unconsciously worn,
her assured ease and positive self-assertion, as of one superior in
her own sphere; Miss Belle, I say, slyly twitched, the floating
gossamer, as it might have been a breeze, and down it dropped,
fluttering and whirling softly, till it lodged in a clump of young
beeches, about half way down the rocks, "inmid air stayed.
When Miss Sabrina turned her head, she was something aston-
ished and looked rather silly at her empty fingers; she had not
felt the loss through her glove, and she drew back the extended
hand in haste, and leaned over the cliff, and. gazed blankly down
where the white'itrifle lay safely provided for.
"There's an end of my pretty mouchoir," said she, petulantly,
vexed at her own folly. "The birds may relish the joke, but I
must say I don't see the point.",
"I shouldn't have thought she would have'brought such a nice
handkerchief up here, should you?. she says it is point," remarked
'Mary Ann, vaguely.
"Mr. Goldsmith," said Belle, "I admire your elegant shrug,
worthy of a Parisian, as well as honor your wisdom; discretion is
the better part of valor ; such an exploit as this merciless young

woman desires to force you into is no joke.. It would take an
expert climber to bring back that pretty trophy."
"I am afraid our Chandy is only a carpet knight, after all,"
said Zoe, merrily. "He will do to, hold worsteds, and play old
maid with the children.. Never mind, child, there are divers
gifts."
"'Yes, to some, tongues," replied Chandy, coloring a little.
" Those briars and rough plces would be ruinous to primrose
kids," said Belle, with a tantalizing laugh; "not at allithe sort of
thing for a young gentleman who puts his whole mind upon his
get-up. Mr. Goldsmith thinks too well of proprieties to soil his
apparel. His -mamma told me only yesterday that her boy was
always as dainty as a pussy-cat about getting himself tumbled."
Handsome, reckless' Chandy turned about as if stung by a
nettle, flushing up to his curls. He dashed off his. cap.
"You shall see, Miss Brandon, whether or no I am a good
climber."
."Don't, Chandy!" exclaimed Chris, pale and trembling.
"Stay where you are, sir!" commanded Sabrina, imperiously.
"'.The beauteous sister imploring stands,
With streaming eyes and clasp-ed-hands,'
and Miss Bradshaw queens it like Zenobia, the engaging Ama-
zon. How very romantic."   Belle's merriment was galling.
Chandy boldly vaulted out, while she was- yet speaking, and
catching by a sapling he swung himself clear of-the sharp rocks,
and dropped fearlessly. down from branch= to branch with the
agility of a squirrel, or a good gymnast, as he was, and reached
the bit of perfumed cambric, which he kissed, with a saucy smie,
and glanced upward at the fair owner, who stood watching him
with compressed lips and paling cheeks ; and he bowed mockingly
to Belle, who was also watching. him  breathlessly. Then he
placed it with elaborate care in his breast pocket, making osten-
tatious display of one tiny lace corner, and commenced the ascent.
While he was yet like Shakspeare's samphire gatherer, 'on rugged
cliff but half-way down,' a slight crackling made itself heard in

268          )VIDOW 'GOLDSU Tfl's ,-DATGI1TER.

{


2Th      wowCOLD IItEH' ,fDkUGf  ER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGrTER.

the perfect silence, and they, listening fearfully, with bushed
breath, heard the sapling give up. itS hold upon the perpendicular
rock into whose crevices it had with slight encouragement thrust
its roots, and Chandy fell with it, crashing down through the
bieaking bushes inifrightful haste.
Chris, who had reached the edge of the platform with a bound,.
as her b 'other swung off, stood, her hands tightly locked together,
her face like marble in its stillness' Belle Brandon's vexing
rhyme, and her knocking fade effectually silenced her, after her
first -ipulsire 'exclamations . She watched every agile motion,
and saw the rich color mount in his cheeks, and had time to note
how handsome he was, and then the sharp crash smote her ears,
and the regurgitating blood .that leaped through her heart and
made her reel, told her his peril. All the wicked thoughts she
had cherished against him, all the rash, stormy words: she had ut-
tered, swept over her like a wave, a surge of bitter regret, which
rose to anguish, when she caught the swift look he sent upwards
as he dropped fromn her sight down the fearful abyss, and the bent
branches;swayed back, and the wild swish of the ,air they stirred
dashed against her face ; and a couple of plovers rose and whirred-
and wheeled over her head, and all was still. She staggered, and
would have fallen.headlong over the rock, had not Otho, who was
closely watchful of her, caught her in his strong arms; and held
her fast. He carried rather than led her to a seat on the moss,
where she sank down with a sob; and covered her face with her
hands.
"My poor child," said he, hurriedly; "be quiet, be brave;. I
will givemy life for his if need be."
She shuddered, and a couple of tears trickled through her
finges;3 but she did not try to speak or look up. AsOtho threw
off his coat,- he quietly motioned Sabrina to come.
"Take care of her," said he ; "I don't think she will faint; sit
down by-rer please, and talk."
lie followed the: adventurous path poor Chandy had, tried wi i
such disastrous consequences. As he passed ]ele Brandon, who
stood alone,.plucking and tearing, the dry twigs from a Aead larch

at her side, he said a few words to her, which sent the angry
blood flashing through her hot cheeks, and caused -her to turn her
back rudely upon him. A last look at Chris, and he fearlessly,
carefully descended from tree to bush, clinging with his liads,
finding footing in the crevices, bringing his trained muscles into
full play. They watched him out of sight, and a shout told them
he had reached Chandos ; but. his voice had a startled tremor in
it which was not fatigue, it sounded like horror.
Ie found the poor boy caught fast in the strong grasp of a
grape-vine, as in a vice ; that his body was doubled, bent back-
ward, and the tough branches twisted around his neck and chest,
so as to stop his breath ; he was purple .and lifeless already. It
was the work of an instant to force off the great rope of a. vine
which compressed his chest, and raise him up ; he did it with a
shudder, for his back might be broken, indeed it must have been
had he not been young and supple. It required vigorous muscles
to untwist the strong withes which held him fast as the avenging
serpents, the Laocoon. His footing was difficult and slippery, but
he managed to raise the drooping head, and holding it on .one
knee, he succeeded in pulling out his knife, which he opened with
his teeth, and while he held the branch in one hand, and kept it
from pressing on the purple throat, he cut it, and the smaller ones
which held the legs.. One-foot was bent beneath the body ; was
it or was it not broken ?  I e must rest, if only for one moment.
He glanced hurriedly around ; a little farther down he saw; a plat-
form of rock, and laying his burden back as well as hecould on
to the tangled and matted vines, he clambered down and found
the spot would serve as a bed for the unconscious 15oy, ifhe could
only manage to-get him down. He must make the attempt. He
could toss up the ." fifty pound weights" like playthings; but he
hesitated4  Delay might be death for one, and a failure certain
peril for both. He had tried softly to move the twisted, limb be-
fore descending, and he shrank involuntarily to find his handa
dabbled in blood. It was welling from a cruel gash belothe
knee, deep and jagged. He pulled sometender leaves ,andlaid
them quickly and deftly on tle wound,aud tore off his cravat and


272           WINDOW 'G6OLbS1I~r's DAUVGIITR.
hound: it tightly above them. Climtbing down  to the spring, he
drank a deep draught, and dashing the cobl water over his throb.
bing"temples, he turned resolutely back. He availed himself of
a network of vines, a-natural ladder, to' reach the object of his
eare, and kiiitting his brows and setting his-teeth, he took up/the
nconscious fellow in his arms. It was but a half-dozen stagger-
ing steps, but his veins swelled like whip-cords, and great Arops
of sweat stood on his face, when he laid his burden safely upon
the soft thickmoss. The poor s.dfferer groaned, ahd opened iis
eyes for an instant, as he 'stood- over him panting.,
"No bones broken, I think, Master Chandos," muttered he,
both hands pressed against his heaving chest; "but you've a pur-
ple necklace around your white throat which will last a while."
Stooping down to the spring he filled his soft hat with the clear
bubbling water. As he turned, he heard a fierce caterwaul, and
hastening back, he beheld Rainbow on tiptoe, with tail tremen-
dons, and eyes flashing green gleams, keeping watch over the un-
conscious heap of fallen manhood, evidently suspicious of foul
play ; and he stood his ground and growled at Otho's approach,
and he watched every motion with feline vigilance, as he bathed
the lifeless face, and washed the blood from the wounds, brushing
nonchalantly off the copious sprinkles he got favored with, never
for an instant ceasing his guard. Only a few minutes had passed,
though they seemed like hours to the silent group ivatching and
waiting above. Now they heard a clear firm voice shouting tp
from below ; it sounded from rock to rock in ringing notes -like
an alpine horn.,
"Imast have men ; let the swiftest runner among you, and
that's Miss Zoe, I think, put wings to her feet and speed away.
Tell them to bring axes and cut away the bushes and get 'us'out
into the old glen road, and don't be alarmed, all will be well.
Miss Bradshaw, take care of your patient. Miss Brandon miay
send me her scarf foir a bandage ; we've a couple'of scratches to
itend to"r
Belle had stood apart, niot looking 'with the others, after the
crash, continuing her occupation of pulling off the dead twigs and

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       27-3

tossing-them down the abyss, while'her color fled and came, and
hlr steely eyes looked half frightened and half defiant. She
tore off her scarf and thrust it into Zoe's hand without a word.
Zoe, who had been peering down, scared and white, through the-
broken bushes, heard the ringing voice- and , darted away
like a deer down the steep path, nor paused, in her fleet career
till she reached a field where some men were working a - fallow.
With scant breath she made known her wishes, and dropped pant-
lng among the May weeds, whose pungent odor she ever after
coupled with trouble and danger. The men hardly stopped to
hear her through, but seizing their axes they dashed off down
the path, rugged and steep and full of rolling stones, which led to
Petrifying Spring, and there they scrambled down among the
boulders, clinging to their mossy sides, and listening  for Otho's
voice, who shouted to them from time to time. After a look at
Chandy, lying so pale and still, and a few characteristic exclama-
tions, they set to work with a will, hacking right and left through
the dense thicket, and soon cleared a path across to the glen.
That done, Otho directed.them how to raise the handsome fellow,
and they bore him carefully over the rough'places, pushing aside
the obtrusive vines and bushes, laboring silently and slowly, till,
they emerged in the grassy glen, where the steady dash of Roar-
ing River made mad music for itself in the solitude; and they
could hear far down the noise of the mills, and the pounding of
the trip-hammers, but it was a good mile away; and they laid
down their burden while they debated what they should. do. The
dew was falling fast, and the air of the glen felt damp and chilly,
and the sun had dropped behind the pinnacle, leaving them in;sober
shadow.
" There is nothing for it," said Otho, "but- to bide our !time."
He pulled off his vest and wrapped it around the bruised limb.
"I wish I had my coat here. -Lend me your jackets, men, to
wrap this sprained foot ; we must'nt run any chance) of' cold; we
have enough to fight already. I think Miss Zoe will raise some-
body. How are you Goldsmith, old fellow. Keep up, we will
soon be out of this."


274           WIDOW 'GOLDSMITH'S. DAUGIITER.
Candy opened his eyes an instant, and shut them again with
a heavy groan.
"A little whisky would'nt be amiss ; but we'll pull through
-somehow. If I had my coat here I could comfort you with a
nice little dose. Here, rest your head on me, my boy. If help
don't come immediately, one of you must go down to the mills;
but I feel sure it will. I have unlimited faith in the messenger.
have already dispatched."
Meanwhile, as We said, little Zoe sat fanning: herself, and the
slant sun-beams shimmered over her crimsdn dress, lighting up
her figure like one of the little "hill-folk," whose beauty and wiles
bewilder travelers, and whose woeful tales entice and mislead
them to the deep earth-caves, where they have to dig and dig all
the while;for shining jewels, and though they see the glitter of
the diamonds and the fiery glow of the rubies, they never can
have any for themselves. She was weeping, too; when who
should come along in a light spring cart, drawn by a pair of sorrel
colts, but the stalwart Peter the younger. He had in the back
of. the cart a sub-soil plow, which he was intending to try on the
fallow piece ; and he was humming to himself, with a merry light
in his eyes, and his pleasant, trust-worthy face was fresh and rosy.
I know a maiden fair to see."
This was the burden of his song; and from the start he gave
when he espied little Zoe, and the honest blush' which; mantled
his cheek, it seemed almost as if she might have been in his
thoughts. Of course he drew rein to speak to her, hoping to
'elicit some of the saucy sparkle iand bright glances which always
sent the blood tingling to his finger-ends, and caused him, in his
after-communings with'himsulf, when'the dainty vision rose before
him, and he'lived the charmed moments afresh,' to exclaim ecs-
tatically- 
"By' jove, how does the bewildering little Gypsey think of it
all." And though he winced- sometimes when she hit too hard,
he could never igo quietly away and leave her to herself; nor am
I sure by any means that such ai line of conduct would have

WIDOW GOLDSMTE'S DAUGE            27

suited the" Ggpsey,' though she often pouted her lip;and ordered
or implored him to do so. But he found her n no saucy or
sparkling mood today. 'She rose and came forward as soon as
she sawshim.
"Oh Peter! I am as glad as any thing to se you.,I am glad
you are so strong and so good. I am afraid poor Chandy Gold-
smith is dead." And she hurriedly detailed as much as she knew
of the accident.
He turned the heads of the sorrel colts, and trundled out his
plow on to the road-side, before she finished.
"Jump up, Zoe," said he shortly. "You'll come with me; you
can be useful. Poor Chandy! poor fellow ; never could be dared
to do anything when he was a little sprout. Don't cry, Zoe; I
hope 'tis not so bad. Give me, your hand-now then, spring!
Light 'as a feather !"
She sprang to his side, and though the light touch of her firm
warm little hand sent the blood galloping, he paid her little more
attention, giving his best efforts to reach the glen, putting the
colts to their speed; and they were blood, each one of their
pointed ears being, as Peter pore averred, Worth a hundred dol-
lars. It required careful guiding over the rough way, and little
Zoe was fain to cling to her escort now and then, as the light cart
went tilting here and there ; but they reached all safe, and were
greeted with a shout of welcome as soon as they cameo in sight.
"Here they come ! Miss Zoe to the rescue!" exclaimed Otho,
with a pleased approving glance at her. "I felt sure you would do
your spiriting quickly, most dainty Ariel. You never was more
needed in your life, Mr. ,Bradshaw, than by your friend Chandy
at this moment. Now raise him  up, boys, under his shoulder
blades-,careful-ease him down-there! that's it. Sit here, Miss
Zoe. Let me place his foot on your lap; never mind the blood,"
(seeing her start and turn-pale,) "only a flesh wound. I can
hold him. Now Bradshaw, make your horses step on velvet."
With his peculiar quick sedate movements and comprehens ve
glance, he arranged every thing in the best manner, and his voice

I,

,


276           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
kept its even quiet flow, and his dark'eyes were lighted with pur-
poseful fire, while they silently followed his directions. But so
slowly were they forced to drive,4hat it was bright starlight when
they reached Mrs. Goldsmith's door, and Ruth and Pigeon had
gone home hours ago.
CHAPTER SEVENTEENTH.
CHRIS GETS A GLASS OF WINE.
TTHE widow saw the men bearing in her first born and on
son without an outcry of love or fright. With her- mouth rigid
drawn Aown, her thin lips a purple line, and her teeth firmly s(
she watched them lay him on her bed. Otho explained in a f
words, and tried to' comfort her, without any marked effect, wh
he carefully cut the boot from the sprained ankle; and she stalks
stiffly about, with her eyes looking straight before hei, steep
wormwood and stirring in saltpetre, and tearing bandages. S
answered as shortly as possible when addressed, and snapped
and bit off her replies as if the accident were a personal affro
which she was bound to resist to the death. Her maternal a
iety stood out all over her, like prickles on a cactus. Otho
ranged Chandy as easily and comfortably as he could, and th
turned quietly to the widow.
" What physician shall I summon, madam ?"
She looked sharply at him. "I don't know as any. I do
like doctors myself. Sextons like 'em, because they-get a dol
and a half for every grave they dig. Dr. Jenkins '11 come a
bring his tea-cup medicine, once in two hours, and his pond
between, no matter whether-its a fever or a dysentery; and
Pickemoff '11 burn your insides out with red pepper, and bile
flesh off your bones with his ailments, (she meant pavementt
He's got the right name, only 'Killall wonld have fitted better.
can doctor a sprain as well as anybody, myself, and you say t
il what the matter is. I hav'nt had a chance to get nigh enSu
(277)

ly
ly
le
ed
ng
he
ut
nt,
Lx-
ar-
en
n't
lar
nd
ers
Dr.
the
s.)
I
hiat
igh


278        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

to my son, yet, to see what does ail him. You've kept so dreful
busy round him."
"Certainly, madam. I do not doubt the profoundness of your
skill; but there is a gash in.Iis leg which requires a little surgery,
a few stitches are necessary. Perhaps you will trust me to sew
it. I think I shall at any rate-time is precious.".
"You!" she ex'claimed,.sharply, eyeing him over as he stood
in his shirt-sleeves, specked and splashed here and there with
Chandy's blood, and resting her gaze with particular distaste upon-
his small white hands.
"Yes, madam, Otho Groenveldt at your service. I belong to
theKillall's, though I have not as yet put many 'fees into the
sexton's pocket.'")
Though Mrs. Goldsmith kpew perfectly well Otho's profession,
she sniffed disgusted astonishment, as though the =announcement
were ridiculous news to her. The young doctor drew from the
pocket of his bloody vest, which he had tossed'On a chair,a small
case of gleaming steel instruments,-wicked looking things, though.
resting idly on ,a bed of crimson velvet. Calmly he selected the
right one, entirely ignoring the widow's snorts ; he set cleverly to
work, and in a minute it was done.
"Now the linen, madam, if you please ; thank you, (pulling it
out - of ;her clutch.)  What admirable bandages ! A  hospital
nurse could not raake better. -"Now the foot next; no-I will
wrap it myself. Steep -the flannel well. I see you are perfectly
au fait. Dr. Pickemoff's presence would be entirely unnecessary.
Experience, good judgment,-and motherly tenderness are worth
everything, are they not ?"  He began to wind the foot and an-
kle with the narrow..strips, artistically rolled, and did, his work
dexterously and;smoothly, she watching him with astonished and
jealous eyes, too much put about even to snuff any more. All
which Dr. Otho saw without appearing to see, but with secret
amusement.:
"There," said he, when he bad quite finished, and laid the
bruised limb carefully in a proper position, "that will' do icely,
and of course I need not say to you, madam that it must be kept

WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S -DA   TERI.279
constantly wet. He has a scratch or. two on his head and face
you see, and his hand is bruised also. Don't you think a little
wormwood would be well there ? If I might venture the advice.
Now Goldsmith, I.can report you as well as can be expected."
Chandos smiled faintly, he was very pale yet, and the purple
veins showed their :tracing on. his forehead, and his curls were
matted with blood, but the mischief and fun spranginto his eyes
as he replied in a whisper, glancing at his vest whieh hung over.
the bedpost.
" I've got the mouchoir, at all events."
"And a dear trophy it is. I advise you to place it among your
relics."
They were all so busy making the unfortunate boy comfortable,
that no one seemed to notice a poor, pale, exhausted girl steal up
to the bed-foot, in the half gloom of the lowered lanps, and gaze
with frightened dilated eyes at her brother. The widow having
occasion to warm her wormwood, ranover her, and said--
"Go to bed, out of the way."
"Good night, then Miss Goldsmith."  Otho offered his hand
with pointed politeness, as she shrank past .him. " Your brother
is quite safe, only a few scratches, and a sprained 'ankle, which
will need your sisterly nursing. I hope the fright and excitement
will not make you ill. You look a ghost of the Christabel who
so bravely scaled the mountain side this afternoon."
" Come here, Christabel," said Chandy, in a soft voice which
made her start, and brought the ready tears into her eyes.
"Here is your coat, Mr. Groenveldt, it was lying on.the ground
and I brought;it away," said she, passively holding out a black
bundle, which she had been carrying on her arm.
How thoughtful of you, Sappho," he answered in=a low voice,
looking earnestly in her face. " I suppose Zoe°and Peter found
you on the, hill. - I dispatched them. for you, as soon as we got
here."
"'No, I did not see them."
" Is it possible ! Then how did you come home ? You surely


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

hav'nt walked this long way, and in the darkness." His man-
ner was full of earnest anxiety, and he kept her hand in his.
"I scarcely know. Sabrina wanted to come with me, but I
could not let her. I had to be alone. I am afraid I was--not
polite'to her."  She passed her hand over her forehead in a tired
way, and staggered against the bedstead, and steadied herself by,
the post.
"' Go to bed," repeated the widow, greatly aggravated by Otho's
words and manner, and darting withering looks at her pale
daughter.
"Don't go yet," said Chandos, glancing in astonishment from
Chris to his mother. " I want you to stay, by me."
She roused herself instantly, and came and stood close beside
him.
" I thank you, my brother," said she, with a tremble in her
voice.
"I shouldn't have made such a tom-fool of myself if I had
minded you, Chris. I- deserve to come to grief. Do you know
Groenveldt ? I think it was the devilish look the Brandon shot
at me, when she as good as called me a coward, which sent me
over the cliff. Upon my soul, I believe she's what you call 'em,
you know," shaking and wriggling his well arm  about sug-
gestively.'
"Lamia, " said Chris, in a mechanical- way, as if hardly yet
herself..
"That's the cheese, Chris," Chandy looked up in her still, grave
face. "Mother, get my sister a glass of wine. She's tired to
death, she'll be ill to a blank certainty. - She shall have attention.
The flower of the faniily, that 'is, while I'm on the shelf."
Sniff, sniff, and a grunt, were all the reply which the widow
vouchsafed to this command, and she drew the cloth-so tight on
his bruised hand as to make Master Chandy wince.
I say, mother, ' deal gently with the erring' you know," ex-
claimed he, pulling his hand away. "I'll wait till you've fixed
up Chris,"before you do anything more for me.. I'm going to have

her for my nurse, and I want her strong and' active, because I
shall have to have lots of waiting bn."
"She's got two good legs,". said the widow shortly, '"let her
help herself,"tgiving her at the same time a look which said, "I
should like to catch her at it."  She attempted to seize her son's
hand and go on:with her rubbing.
"No thank you, Chris first, if you please."..
"' Dor't Chandos," said Chris, surprised and frightened at his
persistence. "I don't need anything indeed."
Otho seeing her trouble, went up to the side-board, and said,
"Permit me, madam, to save your valuable'time," he poured
out a glass of wine, and handed it politely to poor Chris, who
scarcely dared to touch it, so overwhelmed with shame and con-
fusion, was she.
" Thank  you!   Groenveldt, Dr. Groenveldt.  You are a
trump! I vow, I did not suppose I should like you so much.
You see you were as silent as an owl, going up the pinnacle, and
I beg your pardon, but I took you for a prig, never was more
mistaken in the whole 'of my eventful career, which came mighty
near being nipped in the bud by that old thug of 'a grape vine,
(feeling his neck gingerly, with his well hand, and then holding
it out to Otho,)" his hand I mean. " I-shant forget this nights'
work in a hurry,. (his frank, merry  eyes filled with tears). I'm
your friend for life, if you think it worth while to enter such a
scatterbrain on your valuable list."
"Ishall take a friend's privilege, and advise you; don't talk
any more now, Goldsmith. Later in the small hours,"'if you are
still irrepressible, I will listen with pleasure to -your comrmunica-
tion, for I intend to watch with you to-night."
"That's frisky of you, and here's. Chris, who is a perfect owl,
(nightingale I mean,) for sitting up nights, will help you." Char-
acteristically forgetting his anxiety about her health. " There
mother,'that will do, don't take a fellow's scalp off;, let Chris rub
it, her fingers are not all- bones," taking up the supple member
and straightening it on his palm admiringly: "Avery commend
able hand, you see, sir, nails,. almond shaped and rosy-tinted skin

280

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S1 -D.UGBTLR.,°

28I-

I


282        wrno'w tOL snxxI's   1ti1.

fine and sinooth, a little brown or so, I ex'leot Ilknow how that
came ;" he frowned at his mother. "It shall be amended, my sister
is any sister. You need not sit up mother, Groenveldt and Chrs
are going to do for me. You will oily be in the way, and you
look as-glum. as coffins."
"Christabel, do you hear me ? GO TO BED!" screamed' the
widow.
"But I-want her," called out Chandy. "I mst have her."
Poor Chris was at her wits end; she glanced Uneasily at her
another, and would have. gone-away directly; only that her brother
held her fast.
""She is'rit going to set up here all night with no young man
unless I stay by. I wonder you aint ashamed of yourself."
What had been only a dim idea in Chandos' mind, now be-
camel a fixed necessity, and he raised his voice more positively
than before. Otho, with the keen sense of humor which under-
laid his natural gravity, enjoyed the widow's dilemma; but he inter-
fered here, fearing.for theconsequences to his patient. w
- Perhaps you had better .permit hinm to have his-way, muidam'
his fever is rising, (pointing to two bright spots on his cheeks,)
as soon as he falls asleep, Miss Goldsmith can retire. I would
recommend you to remain in the next room, if y6u are afraid to
comniit your daughter to my tender mei-cies. In- the mean time,
I -am greatly indebted to her for her providence in bringing
home my stray garment,- it stands ine in good stead now."  He
took from his pocket a little case of phials, and dropped a few -
drops into a wine-glass, and offered it to Chandy, who -swallowed
it unquestioningly.
The widow had no answer ready; so she stalked stifly about
her preparations making all tidy for the night ; but-she felt a hard
pang at her heart' This was her Chandos, her first born and
only darling,:indulged and thought, about, and planned for, who
thus carelessly preferred others to her, and was not the less bit-
ter becausethat other was? his sister. She -scrubbed her horny
hands together, and looked; at- them-, and; then at the softlittle
dimpled fingers which were obeying-her willful boy's behest, and

g   goei'ed at the befit head stoopiug  iei'hiafd felt that it
was very hardlines indeed. She lit her bedoom candle, and
sat down to "Allefn's Alarm."  Finding that insufficiehit to tran
quilie hler iuffled feelings, she aplied herself to the "Se at
ribulation," and sought her colcli at last With 'bitter reseitineut
buringfwithin her.
Theriursina proved a sinecurre, for Chandy soon sank into ,
soft sleep, and Otho placed 'Chri in the deep window, and sat
down beside her, and  talked in low tones, and plenty he seemed
to find to say, though so grave atid. distant oall others.  When
the tall clock struck twelv'e, he:said selfadenyimgly-
"You see, Sappho, there is nothing to do, and though I find fon
society ve 7y agreeable, I must advise yott in m quality of phy-
sician, not to pale your roses by a longer vigil.:
Chris -ose instantly, ble'shing scarlet, 'she had taken no riots of
time, so interested was she in the talk and she secretly wished
to have mnoPe of  ihat she so thoroughly enjoyed,. but after such
remark, that of course Wias ititpossible, and with-a 'glaaee at th
slumbering patient (who with his face in his hand, and his brown
curls all tossed about, was enjoying real boy sleep in spite of his
bruises,) she gave him shy "good night."
"In Germany, which has been my home so long," said he, de-
taining her at the door, and smiling gravely " In Germany, the
young ladies suffer us- to kiss their hands at parting."
"Indeed I" exclaimed she, with some archness. " But this is
not Germany, you know. Tdo not think the custom obtains here."'
"Poor lost America, high honors missing,
Knows nought of smile and nod, and sweet hand-kissing.
He looked curiously at- her. "Whence comes your couplet,
Sappho ?" said he,'"of a truth you bring forth things new and
old."
" It is Dr. Wolcot's, I think, sir, in Peter Pindar."-
" And how came you to be reading Peter Pindar, 'tis a book
not found in ladies' work baskets, among their worsteds, a bye-
gone satire, whose fame is dead."

'4


2$4         winOW   GOLDSMITH's DAUGETR.

"I dare say, sir, but my Papa showed me 'the Pilgrims and
the Peas,' and it amused me so much that I read on. I think
the satire upon the Boswell, after 'the tour to the Hebrides, is
very funny indeed, and the- critique upon Johnson, beginning 'i
own I like not Johnson's turgid-style,' is true in every little word,"
"Ah, Sappho, but he wrote twentythree odes in one year. You
never did that in Lesbos. It will not do to start another therne
to-night. You tempt me to-forget my duty, which is to say.-.
Good night."                           ~
She retreated hastily, with tingling cheeks, and thought it all
over, the whole of her wonderful eventful day, and her veins
thrilled with a-sense of life.
Mr. Otho closed the door softly after her departure, and listened
for her light foot fall on the staircase, and then with folded arms, he
walked slowly up and down the great room, .indulging in one of
his brown studies, which it' seemed was not altogether pleasant,
for though he smiled sometimes, he also frowned, and, shook his
headpas if he were battling with difficulties.

CHAPTER EIG,IHTEENT..
CHIS SITS FOR HER PICTtRE.
It was only a bad sprain, but full of tormenting agony, which
exhausted all Master Chandy's patience, no tremendous stock to
be sure, and Chris' hardly left his side for the next week. No
bandaging but her's would serve his turn, and Mrs. Goldsmith,
after a Struggle or two, was obliged to.yield to his sharp trucculent
humors, and pettishly uttered wishes, which sounded' like com-
mands ; but she did it with reluctant jealous grimness, and, fought.
out every point before succumbing. .Not that Chandy meant to
be unkind, he simply intended to have his own way, and of that
she could scarcely complain, for she had so taught him. Mrs.
Goldsmith was forced to confess to herself that Chris had a light
touch, and a pleasant carriage in the sick room, after she felt that
it was really her place. The sewing work was banished utterly.
The widow made a desperate effort to mix it in with the nursing
so as to keep her daughter's hands busy, but Chandy got cross
and fidgety, and she was forced to give up the point.
".But they are your shirts, my son I" she exclaimed.
"Blame the shirts 1" retorted, dutiful Chandy. "1I've got to
have a legato stand on, shirts or no shirts., My sister shan't sew
in-here, when I want her all the while, not if I go in;puris natu-
ralibus, and that is the Latin for full dress, mother. 'Go bid my
sister, when my drink is ready, she strikO upon the bell. Get
thee to' bed."'
"As if I was going to bed this.time of day," snorted the widow.
"What do you mean?"
(285)


286           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.-
" Ah, most literal and dearly beloved mother, it was Mac-
beth's speech, not mine," and then naughty Chandy laughed at the
bewildered look his mother gave him.                 -
In spite of occasional pounces upon her, to wash the dishes or
churn the cream, which duties Chris found to her astonishment
went lightly and easily now these sick room days were very
pleasant ones indeed. Chandy had plenty of visitors, after the
first week, adpd regular leyes, and Was particular about his
toilette and surroundings, and insisted upon-having the fresh flow-
ers, which were daily lavished uppn him, arranged and rearranged
under his supervision, half a dozen- times before he was suited.
The old oak-room was a famous gathering place. Bertha Groen.
veldt got her introduction there, as Chandos hiyswathed in flan-
iels, and redolent of rum and wormwood, and they chatted rarely
together.'. Sabrina Bradshaw and Zoe Walsingham strolled in:of
afternoons to visit their old playfellow, and brought their gay
worsteds, and interminable afghan-strips, and Belle Brandon got
the entree, and came -sometimes with, and oftener. without her
foil, whom she drew on and off like a loose glove. She found-it
worth her while to be intimate with the wooden. image, who had
such a handsome brother, and whose house was just now the cen-
tre of attraction, and she exerted herself for the time to blot out
any disagreeable impressions she had made upon Chris, who
ceased to be afraid of her, though she never became communicative
or confidential. Otho steadily shared Chris' cares, as if they were
his own, and the widow had got to endure him; she could not help
it he was upright and firm, and so wvise and kind in his-treatment
of her wayward boy: the one 'being in the whole world upon
whom she doted. Eve' since the first night's watching, she had
left off-little by little to impose obstacles to the friendly relations
between the Dr. and her young daughter, not because she enjoyed
seeing them together, very far from it, but because she could not
help herself. Chandy having, as she !said, "got his back up," and
Otho was so cool and grave, and persistent, that she could ;ralke
biolhead ainsthim;andChris liked it best when the visitors all
stayed away, and she and Otho shared the onerous. 4uty of keep

WIDOW GOLDSMITH '^ DAUGUTIRE.    287

ing the exacting patient amused, and the Dr. talked as only -e.
could do, with such delicate handling of his subjects and so rarely
playful in his subtile wit, which had a quaint flavor, as intangibe
and as sweet as the perfume of the Pansey. His tales .f Ger-'
man student life always held them captive.
"I must go there," said Chandos, when Leipsic had been the
theme. " I must do some of those things, myself. What, if I
should take you, Chris ?
"What, indeed !' said Chris, with sparkling eyes. "I could
patch and dare for you."
lie held out his hand to her with the air of a monarch, extend-
ing his sceptre, exceedingly provoking to. Otho, who could have
pulled the young coxcomb's ears..
"Patch and darn for me, no ; thanks, not any.- 1y the way,'
turning to the widow, " why don't my sister have some decent
clothes? -I'm tired to death of these old things 'she wears. I
supposed- she would come out in something gay on Sunday, and
by George, if she did'nt creep in here in an old black contrivance
that I know must have done duty at grandmother's funeral."
" Sating! twelve and sixpence a yard," interpolated Mrs. Gold-
smith, indignantly.
"I declare its an outrage," continued Chandy, working him-
self into a fume, and entirely ignoring the information.  "A
blamed outrage ! Christabel has got to have dresses andthings
like other folks, or there'll be a fuss in the family.
"Here's Sabrina and Zoe, and the Brandon come sailing into this
dingy old room, as elegant as butterflies, and myfsister, who ought
to queen it over the whole of them, goes shying about, as dowdy
as a cinder-wench. I'n blessed if I'll stand it. Im ashamed tpQ
look at her.  If you don't fix her up, I'll take to.drinking.
Good gracious ! how my foot aches! I'd as lief shuffle off now
as any time."
Chandy never stopped to calculate what opinion Otho might
entertain of their family politics, though Chris fidgeted and
colored and tried to stop him. The Dr. 'seemed howevernot to
hear the talk; he sat with his back to them, and went'on. calmly


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

working among his flies, and Chandy had to call out to him twice
that his foot ached, before he rose to adjust the bandage. The
Widow found that, she must ; go to the garden directly to cut the
asparagus, and Master Chandy subsided for thetime into a series
of growls and threatening quotations from, his favorite Bill Shakes.
It occasionally happened that he had nothing better to do than
to watch his sister moving about the room, fulfilling his thousand
and one behests. If for a moment she got seated, he was sure to
want something, and he opened his eyes with positive wonder in
beholding the easy grace of her attitudes, when she supposed her-
self unobserved.  She seemed to, dawn on him like a vision.
"-Chris,' said' he one day,' when the widow was at: the female
prayer meeting, and only she and Otho were with him, (she sat
on the bed edge, bathing his lame hand, which would stay swelled,)
"Chris, how handsome you are getting ! upon my ;word, with-
out consulting your elder, and better, you are taking the liberty
to be very lovely indeed. I always felt as if my sister ought to
be ,a beauty."  Chris raised her eyes quickly. She wondered if
be remembered the time. when he had so provokingly said, 'I
Wish I had ,a sister .who was'nt a cow.' "But somehow I never
thought-well hang it. Chris, we have lived so much apart these
five years, I 'hav'nt had time or. opportunity, you see.",
Chris's color rose, but she went on dipping the sponge in the
cool water and softly applying it, with a soothing touch, which
had magnetism in it. She could not help glancingat Otho, who
wound'his reel with methodical exactness, and grave, quiet face.
These unconscious revelations which thoughtless Chandy was con-
tinually making of the inferior and subordinate position she occu-
pied in the family were mortifying and distressing 'to her;beyond
measure..
. There goes my sleeve-button! called out Chandos, impatient-
ly; "rolled-away under the bed, of course. Why don't you pick
it up, Chris ?. you ought to have seen it going."
She stooped to comply, and as she did soy, her net, which, as
usual,"was too hastily put on and ill secured, slipped off, and down
tumbled her heavy curls over her shoulders. She blushed, as if.

C1

288

r
e

convicted of a crime, and expected, a. fire of ridicule, and drop-'
ping the sponge she hurriedly gathered the shining mass together.
and was about to twist. it up again, when her brother caught a
curl in his hand.
" Look, Otho; is not this a study for a painter?"
"Very heavy, certainly," replied Otho, glancing at the dishev-
eled head a moment, and then going on with his work.
"Heavy ! If that's all you have to say, I haven't much opin,
ion of your taste ; but such a sober, old fellow as you can't be'
expected to be a judge of female beauty.. If it was a skeleton
now, or a tumor, or a three-headed baby, you would be wide-
awake and enthusiastic, I dare say. Chris, I must sketch you
directly; run quick, and fetch my crayons, and my rubbers, and
some bristol-board-or no, not you, Otho, shall go ; I am afraid
she will spoil her head if she goes running up and down 'tairs;
I must have every hair just exactly as it is now. Hold your
head still, Chris, do, can't you?"
Otho patiently laid down the tangled line, and soon returned
with all the needed articles. Poor Christabel sat motionless, for
Chandy nearly snapped her head off when she stirred, and he
worked furiously while the humor lasted.
" How lucky it was not my right hand which was hurt, then I
couldnot have made this- picture of you. - It is going to be fine,
I can tell you. Now the mouth ; yes, smile, just so; lovely!
glorious!'e 'There's daggers in men's smiles,' Chris. I've got it!I
Eureka-!:eureka!"
He threw down, his, pencil and held up the sketch exultingly
"Beautiful, isn't it ?'"
" Very," said Chris, drily. " The. only question is about the
likeness."
" Likeness ! I should say that yvas about perfect. There is no
longer any '4oubt that you are beautiful enough to be my sister ;
an4 give me the credit of finding it out. You have not been too
nueh be-praised, Ibelieve."
"My vanity died of hunger:before I can remember;" answered
she,: metrily, "but I cannot tell how much I like to heartyou

289,

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S, DAUGHTER -6

F
r,.
}
!t
S f'


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER

speak well of my face, Chandos.   Your sketch is certainly
clever."
" Come, Otho, can't you spare time to look at my work ?"
Otho rose, took the ,sketch from the impatient boy, and exam-
ined it attentively.
"Very clever indeed, Chandos ; -you have genius. If your
talents were not so versatile as to make it difficult to settle to hard
work, I should say you were meant for a painter."
Having delivered his opinion, he handed back the picture
gravely, and returned to his reel.
"It is odd how this line got insuch a horrible muss," said he.
" You do not think it like me, I perceive," spoke up Chris, with
heightened color: "not that it matters in the least whether it is
or no, except as, a test of Chandy's skill."
"Of course not," replied Otho, with a queer smile. "Poor,
hungry vanity."
" The fact is,",said Chandos, who had been following out his
own thoughts ; " the fact is, and I don't mind confessing it, I can-
not think where all my senses have been; but I don't believe
boys ever set much store by their sisters ;. do you, Otho ?"
"I do by mine, at all events, if Iam a boy."
"Well, they always feel ashamed to talk about them at school;
only muffs and Miss Nancys do that. But we will be good friends
from thisout, won't we, Chris?  I am afraid I must own to being
a very selfish,good-for-nothing fellow, but I'm going to turn over
a new leaf. I've been thinking about it, OthQ ; I'd as soon you'd
hear me say so as 'not. You saved my life, kand you seem, just
like one of us."
For full five minutes Chandy looked earnest and thoughtful;_
then he twisted himself over with a light laugh, and called for his
supper.
"Here, Chris," said he, holding out the sketch, " you may have
this to give to your first lover ; or no, I'll keep it to paint from; I
might sketch a hundred and not please myself so well as I have
done to-day. And now be.quick ; 'stay not upon the order of your
going,'" he added impatiently, pointingto the door, "'but go at

once.' A bit of steak rare, and no gravy, or' one of, those trout
which Otho brought from Basswood Pond this morning. I had
fish yesterday; I'll. have the frogs' legs Deb sent me, good old
soul; I'll eat them to please her. Fry me some potatoes, Chris,
thin as wafers ; 'let them not vary in the estimation of a hair;' and
a couple of' artichokes. I don't know, after all, but I'd rather
have the trout. I, wish I could go fishing myself; I'm confound-
edly tired of this dingy, musty old place. I know every crack in
the wall, I've counted the panes of glass in twos and threes, up
and down, and across and slantwise. I thought yesterday I'd got
something new ; there was a spider's web up in the corner, with
a bug in it, and every little while the hairy old wretch of an arach-
nid made a dab at him, but mother saw me looking up, and just
as he was getting interesting, and before t could sing out, she
had whisked the whole thing down."
Between the bed and the door he called Chris back five times,
to give her fresh orders about his repast, each time bidding her
" make haste."  At last she 'got away from him, and running up
to her room," she threw herself upon her knees before the bed,
and for the first time in years she felt a gush of real warm'love
for her brother, and she welcomed it with tears of joy. -He had
stood so in her way, and been always put before her,-and beyond
her, and she was so ignored and trampled upon in ill 'her mother's
plans.: It was the old story of the favorite child over again: "Is
that you, darling ?"  "No,.mother, it is- only me."  There 'is a
life's sorrow in that question and answer, and .poor Chris knew
well what it was to be. " only me."" How could she help a'little
bitterness springing up in her sore heart,.against this careless; for.-
tunate fellow who so coolly took away her birth-right. 'A few
kind wordshad swept it. all away, the bitterness 'and 'the anger,
and she felt as she covered her face in thankfulness, that she really
had a brother--a true friend. In the delightful glow of the new
sensation 'she was ,ready to sink self, forget the past, and 'hope and
believe everything .for the future. Oh, yes, she coldd sacrifice
her wishes to him, and be his humble friend,. (he'w~ a lordly,
handsome fellow, and highly gifted, too,) and contented to 'shine

290

291

F     -          '. tt
.r
.'z
'nj
.   i
"
=
u
,
ey
_
-r
v
'r.
..
s  j          _
,
',
t.
_  1
i,
vi

~,"


wnOW GOLDPMITH'S DAUGHTER.
in his reflected light; he- should never know how she had cried
herself to sleep in lonely discouragement, while he had been go.
ing hither and thither,:enjoying his, leisure. "Though I don't
know but 11ought to:confess to him how I have wished all manner
of' wicked things to him, now that he has been so candid to me.
Well,-I will give up my will now in good earnest," (so she re--
solved,) "and- will try very hard to be satisfied with my life.
Ruth ia right after-alt; here I have. been saying 'God has forgot-
ten the world,' and- instead of punishing me. he has turned my
brother's heart towards me, so- that I have found favor in his
sight."  And she breathed a prayer for forgiveness and- strength,
and ran down to the kitchen with her soul all aglow under the
new emotion. Had her consciousness been fully awakened, or
her opinion of herself less. humble, she might have had other
human help to strengthen her resolves; as it was, she was truly
thankful to have gotten some friendship into her lonely life, and
she returned to: Chandy's side with the savory meal neatly pre-
pared, and a peaceful smile curving her lips.
When the invalid got well enough to walk about, he leaned on
his sister's arm, thrown fondly around him. When. she seated herself
upon the old-fashioned sofa, he laid his head in her lap, and look-
e4 up in her face while she talked. She had found her tongue;
he had no need toiell her to air it now, and she could talk with
him by the hour ; and Sir John perceived- a new attractiori--not
only were her clear, low tones silvery sweet, but she could speak
well of what he knew, and tell him many things he did not know.
She brought' down her sketches, after some persuasion, and was
truly pleased when he praised them in his'Grand Seignor man-
rer; offering to. take her in hand, and correct her faults; and he
brought a ,flood of crimson to her cheeks, as. with a gay laugh he
placed his fingers upon a sketch of the old wall, and Otho lean*,
ing against it, dressed in alpine costume, as she imagined it. -The,
costume ; may have been doubtful, or defective, but the likeness
and attitude were unmistakable. With secret exultation Otho
{ook} ill in his hadd,
S Had we not better add this to our collection, Sappho ?" whiss
pered he in her ear.

II

W  1W GOLDSittTf'DMA ,GIITE .

$93

Chandos 'hindered the necessity for a reply "b. saying, mis -
chievously:
"If you set store by -that fellow, Chris, I will paint-him in oils.
He looks strangely familiar. I;know the shape tof -his leg;,-'this
is his hand; his foot mercurial; his martial thigh, his j-ovial face.
Murder in heaven ! that such an Apollo'should-peddle pills 1"
Chris, without daring to look at-Otho, snatched the sketch from
his hand, and placed it quickly in her portfolio; 'and gathering up
the rest of the scattered papers, she ran off with: them  to her
room; and she heard her brother's teazing laugh, so full of mali-
cious enjoyment,.and wondered how Otho could bear it.
Chandos got fon4 in these days of quiet chatting, of going off
into dreams of the pleasure 'he should take in Christabel's beauty
and talents, and sketched 'his programmes 'with lavish promise,
and intense satisfaction to himself; but-once in a while .he would
stop suddenly and fix his eyes upon a missing button 'or a zig-zag
'tear,'or some blemish in her apparel; -something Chris had firmly
intended to repair, and hadn't ; and then he would -blurt out a
speech so exceedingly cutting on her careless ways,:that Chris
would either blaze up at- himt, or withdraw from his neighborhood
and become dumb, and the old tired, 'wistful look "would steal into
her eyes, and the sad desolateness brood over her heart:;'and then
the widow would click her needles in - grim enjoyment, and intro-
duce scathing comments intended to intensify the situation, for
which she got small thanks from her, hopeful son, who would sud-
denly chop about . and speak -up for Chris, and put the old lady
down with a quibble or-a quotation from his friend Bill -Shakes,
,so ludicrously distorted and lugged away from its context .as to
tickle Chris in spite of herself, and bring back :her -smile again.
You see they could not come right all at once, ' but she was a
treasure to him in those days of convalescence, and they got in
better harmony with every passing hour. 1He- used to discuss her
good looks with Otho, if that could be called discussion where the
talk was all on one side ; and she unconsciously revealed to the
two the purity and richness of her character, in its mixture of
childish simplicity and rare cultivation. She had lived more since


294:       WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

we met her at Ruth Blair's than in the whole five years before,
and these weeks were the fullest and best of all. Otho went and
crime like one -of them, and Chris began to study his face for ap.
probation, and to lean upon him for assistance ; his cool, quiet
gravity-made. him seem ever so many years her senior, and she
received his opinions with respect, and unconsciously made him
her standard for judging manhood. She fitfully combatted her
careless habits, but with only indifferent success. When forced to
compare her personal appearance with the others she felt ready to
-sink into shadow ; but the pressure off, her thoughts would get lost
in some rambling speculation, or absorbed in her sick-room duties,
and her, own identity passed completely out of her mind. It was
too much for her patience to go through thorough repairs of her
wardrobe,' even if she had had the time. When .Ruth mildly
suggested to the widow that poor Chris needed some stitches taken
for her,-as she was so very busy, the loving matron replied that
she might take it out in needing; if girls couldn't fix up them-
selves they was pretty poor trash. She never had nobody to
sprig tip her duds, and she wasn't going to spend the time loaned
to her to prepare for dyin' in, in no hifalutin folderols."
While Chris was dressing in her hurried way, pulling on her
shoes, and' putting up her hair, jerking herself into her dress, and
trying to accomplish it all at once, she did sometimes sigh for
'really nice clothes, whole and appropriate, comely in fashion and
becoming in color, feeling sure she should take great comfort in
keeping them beautifully; and then she would give:her bureau a
fresh overturn to bring up the garments nearest to whole to make'
do for the present, intending to be very industrious in mending at
some future period.

CHAPTER NINETEENTH.
C HANDY- DEMANDS MUSIC, AND GETS NONE.
ONE evening they were sitting in the gloaming, which the
widow liked to prolong-as much as possible, to save candles. ,She
was knitting, and Chris still held the book in her hand from which
she had been reading aloud to Chandos. 'She was gazing intently
upon a picture she saw in the coals, for the night had -come on
cool, and Chandy's foot always pained him if he got chilly,; so
they had a wood fire upon the hearth. Many, weeks had -passed,
and he was still a prisoner. The flesh-wounds in his leg were
quite healed, thanks to his healthy young blood, but the sprain
was obstinate-; in fact the impatient youngster would not give it
time to become sound, but was continually trying it, like the boy
who pulled up his onions every morning to see if they had taken
root. He made Chris suffer sometimes by blurting out remarks
to his mother on her treatment of her, and by asking unfortunate
'questions; all which the widow resented, and. visited; upon' her
daughter, as if she were to blame, in a hundred spiteful little
ways, which evinced her ingenuity if not her. christianity. So
that when Chandos said suddenly:
" Chris, how is it that I haven't heard you sing a note since I
got home ? You and I sang when we were children, and choice
and rare were papa's selections for us.' I shall reverence Mozart
all my life for the introduction I got to his masses in those days."
She started and blushed, and glanced in her usual frightened
way at her mother, who sat stiff and prim as a gridiron in the
(295)


296        WIDOW GOLDSMITHS DAUGHTER.

chimney-corner, and muttering something about fetching more
wood, she rose to hurry out of the room..
"Hold on, Miss Goldsmith, not so fast, if you please;. I like to
have my questions answered.""
" Certainly, Chandos ;" Chris paused irresolutely, and tried to
speak in an unconstrained way. " Certainly, Sir John; ' words,
are motes of thought, and nothing more;' I'll give you as many
as you like."
"Very well, then let us have them. What is there about the
singing business which makes you color up so, and look at mother
like a frightened deer ?"
"Make it gazelle, Chandos; more poetical, sounds better; not
that I am aware of looking particularly scared."
"Yes you do, by George ; you flutter like a hurt pigeon."
"I thank you-for the hint, and I shall immediately begin to
cultivate ;repose of manner, as Miss Dulcet says. As to singing,
you have not asked me'; Imust be urged; besides I have had no
singing days of late ; and really, :Chandos, you nay as well; know
the truth," she threw back her head and looked proud and defiant,
"I never do sing except at Ruth's, when they make me take part
in a duet or trio. They have so much musicover there,; Ruth's
voice is as true as a bird's, and George has got such a tenor."
"Ah yes, Mrs. Blair; do you, know I had. forgotton that little
Ruth Ashmead was married till she came in with that youngster
of hers. Time brings changes; I'm  getting old. I'll engage
she's a gay little matron;.I nust do her the -honor of a'call, as
Deacon Williams 'told mother yesterday.. I used to think she was
quite a beautybut .I was a boy then. Now look, I had no idea
there was so much warmth in;a moustache; 'positively mine is
getting oppressive.".
'Chris's-thoughts were running on Ruth, and she lost the last
pa't  'Chandy's speech, as well as the flourishing caress he gave
they-silken down which Was 'beginning to shade his merry mouth.
Sh 'is mny dear':friend; I don't think:I could have got on at
all Without' her. She knows, how to .scold without hurting; she's
a soft, tender, loving christian.. I wonder what has changed'her

face so of late; she does not look so gay or speak so blithe asishe_
used, and her hymns are all sad.fones; but when I ask her, she
will always say ''Tis nothing."
Chris had sunk back into, her chair, and was givingroice' to
her fears, forgetting' who listened, and she started and dropped
her book, when the- fore-stick parted and dashed out a shower'tof .
sparks at her.
"I do hope you are not going to be nervous, Chris ; I hate
nervousness."  Then he turned impatiently upon his mother:
" Oh dear, what a tiresome noise that knitting makes ; I wish
you had a little young America in you, mother, and would:lay off
once in a while, and enjoy yourself. You sit up. so straight, you
make my back ache ; and that confounded.click-clack--I'd as lief
be a telegraph, and have dispatches running over my back all. the
while."
" Fiddle-sticks !" ejaculated the widow, but she folded up her
stocking, nevertheless.
" Now we will return to our muttons. Just open the library
door and sit down to your piano and play me something, I shall
be well enough to go in there myself in a day or two, and then
we'll have some jolly duets. I haven't' seen the dear, old place,
yet ; I believe I'll go in now.. Come, Chris, give me my cane,
and your arm."
Instead of rising -with her usual alacrity, Chris kept her place,
and threw another frightened look at her mother.
"It is cold in there, Chanos," said she; "the room has not
been opened of late, and I am sure youa ought not to go in to-
night; to-morrow, if mother will give me the key, I will let in
the sunshine, and then-"
" What a capital housekeeper you are, mother ; I've. got a
stunning story on you about it. 'Zoe says that Deacon Williams
was going past one day and he saw you skipping: about,:and he
thought you was dancing, and he came up on tip-toe and peeped
in, in-hopes to get a sessions case out of you, and haul you-up for
discipline-worldly conformation=and light conduct-and 1 o!. youi
were chasing a, poor unfortunate. fly, who in an. evil hour lad

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

dared to intrude into your parlor ; so I suppose you keep the
doorlocked ever since. Well never mind, Chris, I won't go in
to-night; mother might get after me with her besom."
Chandy gave up the more readily, because of a sharp pain in
his foot on putting it to the floor, and he sank back. " But at,
any rate you shall play for me; I won't be done c it of that."
"I cannot oblige you, Chandos ; I have no piano."
"What-! :no piano! What has gone with it ?"
"I have sold the intrument, my son," said the widow, sourly,
looking holy -daggers at Chris. " I had good and sufficient reasons,
for doing it."
" Oh, I see, very proper ; getting tinny I suppose, or as.the ma-
kers say, ' brilliant.' Well, you have done right, a piano ought
to be new once in five years or so; there are such lots of im-
provements going on all the while. We will go together, Chris,
and choose one, just as soon as you've your new toggery, and
I've the use of my legs. We'll have a parlor-grand Steinway,
and a master from Toptown for you."
-    " No you won't have nary one," spoke-up the widow, bristling
all over with anger and alarm. " You beat all, I declare !"
"Yes but we will, though," replied Chandy, winking at Chris,
and enjoying his mother's perturbation. "I do believe you think
what now you speak, but what we do determine oft we break.'
There's pleasure in store for you, mother, for'Chris and I will
discourse you most excellent music, more exquisite than all the
notes of nightingales and. thrushes throats. Is there a heart that
music cannot melt ? Alas ! how, rugged is that heart forlorn.' '
Chris followed his words in wonder ; he matched together his
quotations so easily, from authors so diverse.
The widow did not seem to share her pleasure.
"My son, listen to reason," said she. "There is something more
important to do in this sinful world than thumming ona pianoforty,
.-that is for girls. I don't say anything against your violin. You
know I never did. If I was asked for my opinion, (which I never
was,) I should say it squeaked. The devil makes, great use on't
too, when he gets fools to prance round on their toes to the jiging

298-

WIDOW OOL- DSMLTH'S DAUGHTER.

lo,

on't, but your father would get you one, and you've got it and'that's
enough. You need'nt go to puttin no nonsense into Christabel's
head. I can't afford to let her fool away'no money, at any rate
till you're through college. I'm sure you need'nt complain. I let
you have everything you want, don't I ?"
She had miscalculated for once in her argument, and misjudged
her son.
"Mother," said he, raising himself with.some dignity, and look-
ing fixedly in her face, "Mother, are we so straightened in our
means that you find it necessary to limit my sister and make, her
suffer, that I may be supplied? If that is the case, I shall leave
school directly, and earn my living. I could not go to college at
that price."
"Oh no, my son, not strictly speaking, that is not the case, but
I think it a christian duty to practice economy, and I strive to
bring up Christabel to industrious habits."  She knew he was
capable of taking such a resolution, and trying it on, in spite of
her. " I should'nt suppose," she added in a querulous tone," that
you would find fault with my saving, it is all for you. I am
continally contrivin how to hand over the property to you as
large as.I can, rakin and scrapin. I want you to own that Nook
farm. It jines ours so pat, it orto belong to it. It is a tough
dose to guttle down your fault finding ; men are a thankless lot,
the whole on em, but I've got my religion to comfort me. There
is a great day a coming, when the wheat will be sifted."
Chandos threw himself back, and lay looking gloomily at the
fire for some time, as if straightening out -a twisted thought, then
turning to Chris who had her eyes fixed on him, he made her
jump again by asking-
" Is it vacation in your school now, that you happen to be at'
liberty,-or are you staying at home to nurse me like a good
pretty girl as you are ? How lurchy you will get with your les-
sons. - You must bring.home your books, and I'll help you catch
up. Reading Virgil by this time, I suppose, and doing Euclid.
I'm some on Latin, but the less you say about Mathew the better.
I never could get to be hand and glove with that precise old prig;

2990


'WIDOW GOLDSIrT'S DAUGHTER.

and I say Chris, I know Botany and1Chemistry, and th it lot from
A to izzard; come, run up and fetch, your books, and show me
where you are. I feel just like it. It will, pass off the time.
Il go round to the school just as soon as I get out. I suppose
Sabrina and Zoe go where you do.",
"I do not attend school," said Chris, in. a low hesitating tone,
her color deepening, and a great something rising in her throat and
choking her. " I thought you knew, Chandy, that I never had
a day at school in my life."
"What!" screamed Chandos, "not attendschool ! Why not,.
pray. Come, out with it. What does this mean. I will know,
a confounded fine lot of going's on. My sister, no piano, no edu-
cation, no clothes ! - I've been suspecting for some time that there
was a screw loose in this family, now I'm sure of it."
"I study at home, that isI do sometimes," stammered Chris
hurriedly.' " I don't, care about- going to school now, Chandos,"
she added, looking full at her mother. " I've done with all that,
and don't intend to rake it up again. But Chandy, you must try
to make the best of me you can, just as-I am, I would have
been more if I had been able. -I don't think I could bear -to have
you despise me now, after I have felt how good and nice you can
be. I walked such a weary, lonely road before you came up that
day and began to talk. You did'nt make your opening speeches
too flattering. You made it up afterwards, and I love you,"
obeying a sudden impulse, Chris seized her brother's hand and put
it to her lips.-
The widow's eyes actually looked green in the haf'gloom, so
angrily did she observe her two children.
A silken rustle in the passage, and a low knock at the parlor
door announced an arrival, and Chris sprang to open it, half
ashamed of her fond- action, and thankful for the interruption.
Though she liked very much the new championship and-good
natured espousal of her cause by her handsome brother, albeit it
proceeded somewhat from the "my, sister" feeling.- She hated
the scenes" she foresaw would come to be more, and more frequent
because of them. Twice or thrice Mrs. Goldsmith and "my son"

300

had had it out, already, and with doubt as- to the victor, and they
had -a very fierce occasion shortly after;this.. conversation. When
he ascertained that the library had been kept lockedso as .to pre-
vent Chris from reading, his indignation knew no bounds, and he
was so hard on the widow that she retired and read. twelve pages
of the Great Tribulation, and there is: no saying how bitter her
meditations 'were. Chris had reason to know, however, though she
bathed her ved ears and pulled her hair down over them so. that
they escaped notice.
The dutiful young gentleman, Sir John Chandos, though he was
diverted from his inquiries for the evening, did not banish them
from his thoughts. He took early opportunity, to question Chris,
and drew from her reluctant lips the whole history, of her' strug-
gles and trials, and he half guessed her victory. As we know,
Master Chandy had been for long a school boy, and.with his hap-
py-go-lucky temperament, he had made a home-for himself among
his schoolfellows,- entering heart and soul into school politics,, and
school scrapes ; often spending his vacations with .one or the other
of his friends, a welcome guest everywhere. Of course it never
occurred - to him that all was not as it should .be: at home, His
sister was but a target to shoot his jokes at, for which-he got. his
ears well boxed sometimes. 'Mostly however, Chris. kept .out of
the youngster's way when he was at Roaring River, watching
him afar off, resenting with. bitter' anger his easy comings, and
goings and-jaunty ways,' 'as a personal injury.
When he had learned all he cared to know, he broke' out into
some- characteristic petulant observations, upon "nasty selfish-
ness," and in the same breath, he sent Chris down cellar after a
can of- peaches,. and when' she had opened it and set it out in a
glass fruit dish, and brought a gilt saucer-and-sprinkled the luscious
fruit plentifully with sugar, he, made faces because. she had used
powdered sugar, and would not touch it; and made her go into
the kitchen and roll some loaf, saying
"I don't stow away marble dust and terra-alba, if I know it."
Then he would have some cream.'

WIDOW GOLDSAzlTEI'S-- DAUGLIT.ER.

30:1


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"But I don't like to get it, Chandy. .I am afraid to disturb
the pan, mother will not like it. -She makes butter you. know."
"Butter be hanged ! Get me some cream, Chris, I am of
more value than many butters," and Chris brought it, though her
ears tingled in anticipation. As soon as he had finished his peaches,
Chandy thougLt of something he must have from his room, and
then he wanted a-box of blocks from the wood-house, and as soon
as he got those, he found his happiness depended upon getting
instantly a couple of shingles, to make winders for his fish lines,
and then he sat and whittled chips all over the floor, for Chris to
pick up, all the while turning over the "nasty selfishness " in his
mind, and scolding mutteringly.
"Blamed shame ! here she has been fretting her life out, against
the bars of this old prison, and how tricky to put the onus off on
to me. No thank you, mother, not if I have been introduced to
myself, and I think I have. Things shall to right about face,
double quick. My sister no accomplishments, and all this time
lost. _ Why, I shall want her to go into society with me in another
year. I'll take her to Paris. I will, by Jove. What will mother
say to that ?" and.he laughed enjoyingly at the idea. No dowdy
shall go, not. for forty farms," he twisted his foot about and it
began to ache.
"Come Chris," he called out impatiently, " carry off these
things, I'm as tired as a wagon wheel. Do fix these bandages."
She had to take them off and apply fresh wormwood, and he
was so exacting and so cross that she got nervous, and then vexed
and then angry, and finally she blazed up at him, and tossing the
flannel back into the basin with a splash which sent the mixture
flying; she told him he might do it himself, and then after study-
ing her hot cheeks and flashing eyes a moment, he calmed down
and was good natured immediately, and let her finish like a lamb.
Master Chandy set himself to know about the property, a sub
ject which had not interested him particularly up to this time, and
when he, lazy fellow as he was, set about anything, he sifted it.
iHe ascertained that his mother was sole trustee and executrix.
She and they were rich ; good farms, well rented, some excellent

802

a

copper stock, which paid handsomely, and an interest in the Mis-
sissippi Ferry Company, which alone ought to be a fortune. Be-
sides the fancy, there were plenty of solid investments, all sho w-
ing never-tiring oversight which he was forced to admire.
" Mother is a blamed shrewd woman, is'nt she, Chris ?" said he
confidentially. " Pity she's such a stiff old file. When I get well
I mean to work her over, she shall have some good clothes, and
be- gay and go to all the funerals. She must get rid of the notion
that she is too old to enjoy life."
Chandy had set for himself a tiresome task. He had resolved
that Chris should go to school, and he worked. at it resolutely.
The widow was stubborn and grim, and a long time .in giving in.
He positively declared that instead of going back to school, he would
work in the foundry. " I will, mother," he said.  "I will, I'll
be a dirty, sweaty, big-fisted blacksmith if you don't send her,
and dress her like a Goldsmith. You shall leave her alone from
working all the while, and let her enjoy herself as she likes."
This was the end of a long altercation, which had been a strange
mixture of scolding, threatening, coaxing, and caresses. Mrs.
Goldsmith had made up her mind that she had got to give way,
and she looked at her handsome son while he ran on in this strain,
with a stiff, grim, motherly pride in her heart, which she, tried
hard to conceal from herself. His high-bred face, lighted up with
a smile, half earnest, half mocking, but wholly determined to
win his purpose - She tried a' compromise by offering to give
Chris a summer at the Millville Academy, adding-
" But I shan't make a fool of her with finery. I shan't counte-
nance no wimpling pins, nor tinkling ornaments. You need'nt
talk out Chandos, for I shan't doit. I've set my foot down.":
" No mother, nary tinkle," laughed Chandy.
"The girl has got to come, up a good steddy economacious
woman, that's the course I've been followin, and I mean to stand
to it."
" The sister I bring out into society shall be an elegant and ac-
complished lady. That's the notion I've taken un, aid I mean to
stand to it," retorted dutiful Ohandy.

'I

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGUTER.

S3'


804         WIDOW GOLDSITR's DAUGHTER.
,A
" She's got to know thevalue of money, and you need'at talk."
"so mother, I won't, she's got to go to school though, and this;
Millville Academy business won't begin to go down. You know
very well that' you would not send me thei'e.  The teachers
are a set of old frimps, and it. is a one horse concern. anyhow.
Besides, Chris wants the_ eclat of graduating from some, first
class finishing school, and, my sister has got to have it. I. know
there must be some place where there'san institute for young men
and a school for girls as well. I'll find out, she could be so use
ful to me: Don't .you see,. mother, introduce me, to all the- girls,
and I could cock. it over the other fellows who don't have pretty
sisters in the school."
"Do stop talkin about her bein pretty, Chandos. You make
me sick; 'handsome is, that handsome does,' I say."
"She don't look much like you, mother, that's a, fact, but we
will have to put up with that. You'll do the handsome thing now
won't-you? If you don't, I will bring down your grey hairs with
sorrow to the grave. That is if you leave off dyeing. them.
Upon the honor.of a Goldsmith, I will."
He seized his crutches, and darted over towhere his mother
was sitting; he had been over before several times in the process
of the altercation; and throwing himself down beside her, he put
arm his around her stiff neck, and. forced her to bend over to h'm.
"Come mother, say you will, there's a dear," old girl, he was
about- to add, but, checked himself in time, and finished his sen-
tence in a dutiful burst. " Dear excellent parient, to your big boy."
"Well, well !" she, answered, jerking herself back into an up-
right posture, like-a-frisky jack-knife. "ll think about it. You
need'nt'jerk my stitches out, that won't help your none."
"jBut.mother, I'll, kiss. you any way.. I want. to reflect that
Ive performed one virtuous action, when I close my eyes in sweet
repose, tonight."
She looked at him an, instant, and then leaned over, and actu-
ally imprinted a. kiss-upon his forehead.
Faugh, mother, don't pucker:up your lips into such a knot.
I'd as lief kiss a chip;here, I'll show you *how to do' it," and

WID OW GOL s tIH'snAUt;G  itt.         3Oo
fiing 'his laughing eyes full up on. her face,' he brought his firm
red lips to her's, so that she received his sweet he lithy breath,
bilmiy and cool'as it had been iW  his babyhood, and she loved
himso'nuch. -It was like a pain inher heart, the yearning fond-
ness, which she kept covered so carefully. "Ther-e mother, that's
doriethintg like, but youare ont of practice. 'Weve'sealed our
bargain with a holy kiss. I  in the widow's chanpioi'and de-
fence.'"'Fare well, 'old Gamit; thy sotiretimes brother s Wife with
her companion grief, must end her life.' Don't scowl so, mother,
I was ijot calling you names, only a quotation from= Bill 'Shakes,
nothing personal, upon my honor.' You'll let me have' my 'way,
'because what I set my heart on, I have to get,'or there'll 'be a
fiss in the family, won't there mother ?"
'I suppose so, you always was a masterfull little piece; and
you hav'iit improved any great," said the widow feeling of her
collar, and pulling herself into shape. Chris coming in at the
door, looked on in wide-eyed astonishment. She never dared to
ruffle so mudh' as the pasted spit-curl or her mother's proper cheek,
.(which it would seem like levity to call a beau-catcher, on such
aeountenance) 'She could not remember when she had evergot a
kiss; and' here was this six foot Autocrat pulling her about, and
ehaffing lier, anc she did not annihilate hin, and the poor'ciild had
so 'longed for a little mother love. He had got it all, and as sh6
looked'it was hard to keep down a jealous pang.
But to go back 'a little. As we have said, a silken rustle an-
nounced a feminine arrival at the door, before they had lighted
the candles on that evening, When 'Chandy had beenmo 'ed to
ask tr iblesome questionss  It'proved to be bertha'Giroenveldt,
a most welcome guest to Chapdos, firstly' 'because' he had been
alone'all the afternoon, secondly, because he took great delight in
her lady like proper ways, her repose. She acted as'akind
balance' wheel to his hot-headed impetuosity. 'Sliewaswelcome
to Mrs. Goldmith, because of a'repr'ieve fromna discussion which
she foresaw would, through Chaidy's persistence, eoat her money.
Bertha greted Chris with 'a fiendly kiss .on both cheeks, as
she assed her, and 'niod' 6n to Chand's sofa. Thsdecod
comer detained her for a moint's talk while he hung up his liat.

a


30          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
"Your face is full of unrest, Sappho."  The look in his eyes
made it dear Sappho, though Chris did not see it. He knew
every change of her mobile face. " There is ihore shadow on it
than even the flickering fire-shine can account. Quien pregunta
yerra, what is it, child ?"
"Only a trifle," she answered, hurriedly. " The raking up of
a dead hope, which had buried itself; don't speak of it."
" Well, permit me, then: I'll speak of something else; some-
thing apropos of the Swiss journey you are to take at twenty,"
Holding up a great package of books, and tearing down the brown
paper wrapping, he showed to her the titles of some of them:
"  n~ed rtgtdaii u ht $groFund    to f  igg c  l  " " g g gg.
8%uith Wix," &amp;c. There were twelve of them, almost as many
as she could lift. She was bewildered ; many events had taken
place since the talk at the old wall, yet somehow it had never died
out of her thoughts. It would seem that the young doctor never
forgot anything which concerned Chris. She gave him no spoken
thanks; he seemed not to expect any ; one look from her brown
eyes was enough, and she ran hastily up to her room; when she
came down there was a bright red spot on either cheek, and her
scarlet lips were parted in a radiant smile, and her eyes all aflame.
Otho turned toward her with an'expectant glance, which settled
into one of grave satisfaction, as he rose and offered her a place
near him, intending to begin one of their long. enjoyable talks.
But he was hindered by Bertha, who exclaimed.
" Look here, Chris dear ; I've been telling Otho that it is quite
time he redeemed his promise to us about that ride."
Us!" said Otho ; "unless my memory plays mie false, and
she is not apt to do that, it was to the victor only that the guerdon
belonged; the idlers who were too lazy even to contend, have no
part nor lot in the matter."
"Ah, but when are -we to have the ride? that is the point now
in debate. Don't rake up 'the past. Silence is golden."
" What ride ?".inquired Chandy.
Bertha told him about the writing-match up at Craienfells ;
and  Chandy, before  she had  finished  go   up  a  Cegan fegan;
limping about the room, making all sorts of grimaces.

WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.             307
"Rather tough walking on it, yet," exclaimed he, dropping into
a chair, and wiping his hot face, "but I can ride'; just the exer-
cise I need. What a capital suggestion ! Yes, Miss Groenveldt,
f you-will deign to accept of a poor cripple as ,escort, I am at
your service."
Indeed, Mr. Goldsmith," stammered 'Bertha, "I assure you I
had no idea."
"Of course you can't have an idea of. a perfect preux chevelier
till you see me, John Chandos, in suit of velvet. 'The- French
can well on horseback,' but this gallant, tapping his chest,
'Hath witchcraft in't; he grew into his seat,
And to such wondrous doings brought his horse
As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
With the brave beast."
Chandy mouthed his quotation and caressed his moustache.
"Something in the Fitz James style," suggested Bertha, ridi-
culing his airs.
." I suppose I must be very stupid," said Chandy, tossing off his
curls petulantly, and gazing at them through half-shut eyes. He
was nettled, partly because Chris laughed, and Otho also smiled,
though he was, not thinking of Chandy in the least, but of the
sweet, roguish look on Chris's face, and how rarely lie had seen
it there.
Bertha recited merrily:
" No foot Fitz James in stirrup stayed,
No grasp upon the saddle laid,
But wreathed his left hand in the mane,
And bounded lightly from the plain."
"iThat's all gammon; .sounds well enough, particularly when
recited by a sweet voice, (bowing to Bertha.)  Might do in the
Hippodrome, bare-back riding is a great card there, but when I
do the cavalier give me a good English saddle, russet bridle, and
plated stirrups ; I like to come out like a gentleman myself. Fel-
low' citizens, including mother, -Don't go, mother, you'll get a
chance to speak in meeting presently. Can't stay? Well, don't

1

II


308         . wroDWGOLPMII s   I's IU EHTER
flirt with-Deacon-Williams at the conference, his wife Wont like
it; goodbyee'
With the odd mixture of insolence and good breeding which
was;'habitual to him, he rose to his feet and kissed his-hand lov.-
ingly at her as she passed him.
"Where was I, fellow citizens?  Ah, I know ; Ivas about to
move that we make up a party, and take Craigenfells -in our way,
and have a supper there, justea mild orgie, you know--woodeock,
squirrel cooked in wine, spring chickens, artichokes, lunge out of
the pond, and some of Deborah's puffs and tartlets to top off with,
and I dare say Thomas has strawberries ripe by this time. What
do you say, Otho ? you can show off as host, and do the grand
and gorgeous."
" Craigenfells belongs to Uncle Alec, you know," said Bertha,
laughingly.
"Nonsense ! it belongs to all of us. He always lets us do just
trhat" e like up there. 'Glorious old fellow'! how I wish ~he
would come home.""
'Otho turned to Chris. . "Would you like it, Sappho? ' ques-
tidnig' her tell-tale'face after his own ever-seeing fashion. "I
shall' take great pleasure in giving you a riding-lesson preparatory
to thG gne~don. That is 'to be a 'wild race, to mnake the cleeks
glow atd the blood tingle."
"I do not like being reminded of my foolish speeches," an--
swered Chris, blushing. "A silly saying, dropped into a friend's
ear, should be as if dropped into a well, covered and forgotten."
"True, if Sappho could utter folly'; but shall we have the
party which Chandos is- getting up for me? -I am not over-fond
"        of playing the agreeable,' but i'll don my 'holiday looks if it suits .
the tenth muse, your face smiles. approval of the fete, but ' your
voice-is 'a pleasant one. The Craigenfells horses are gay fellows;
I think  Zephyr will acknowledge .you for mistress ; in case he
should be so base as to demur, I shall be at hand, and I know
that you are always safe under my care.".
" Thank you," replied Chris, modestly, but with secret exulta-
tioar, " thank you, I shall like it very much if my mother-"

WXDGO  W fl'Q  ST ,'5$  UI Tx  40~9-

" Never mind. mother," spoke up Chandos, carelessly, .,"I pro.
pose to engineer this festive occasion myself, and I'll{see tha-
our revered parent does. not play mar-plot. Let's see, who shall
we invite ? There's Sabrina, she'll sit a: horse like a bird- and
I'll b9 bound; she's a stylish get-up ;- she's a dainty lady, is the
silver-ake goddess
'She still retains her maiden gentleness,
And oft at eve visits the herds along the t light meadows.'
You know you caught. her at it, Otho, that night I. went over the
cliff." (All laughed at Chandy's nonsense, except Bertha, whose
pretty face lost something of its serenity.) "And Zoe Walsing-
ham, Susie Jenkins,. and we'll have the Brandon ; that's. girls
enough, we mustn't get up too large a party for Otho's mahogany.
I don't see but you and I, Dr. Groenveldt,.will have to be respon-
sible for: two unprotected females. I'll., escort Miss Bertha, (by
your leave, madamoiselle,) and Sabrina; Peter will take Zoe and
Susie, and 'there's my sister and the Brandon, the blue-eyed and
beautiful, will naturally fall to your share."
"Excuse. me," answered Otho, drily. "I am no esqwire auT
dames; Ithink I can manage one woman,, if I put my whole
mind to the task ; but I don't feel equal to any further amplfi-
cation."
"I don't see how we shall fix it," mused Chandy, with his chin
in his hand. " However," he soon added, turning the trouble off
easily, "there's Peter, he lives here, which I can't be said to do
at present, he'll. see to all the details, of course he knows. some
eligible fellows., I'll indite a note to him immediately ; runtup,
Chris, and bring me my desk ; how I w'Ih I could have the
full use of my legs once, more. When I do,. catch mepopping
over precipices like a gull; I'm a sadder and a wiser man. Let
me see,. this is Thursday, say we go on Saturday; that'll: give
Pete ample time to square up things;, I could get up a party to
the pyramids in that time."
That night afterOtho and, Betha weave gone, Chris came and
sat down close to Chandy and opened her mouth once;tr twice,

.I


310 ,      WIDOW GOLDMLTs'S DAUGHTER.

as if she had something to say, and 'did not exactly know how to
begin. Finding he did not offer her any help, she said:
"May I presume to trouble you, Chandos, with a foolish ques-
tion ? .I want your opinion."}
"And you consider me capable of pronouncing upon folly.
Rather a doubtful compliment, but still you may speak."
"Should you suppose, Chandos, that my mother could make
any objection to my receiving a gift from some one*?"
"Well, that depends entirely upon who the some one may be."
"A very good person, Chandos; quite worthy of being respect-
ed and liked."
"Male or female ?"
"Why not a woman, of course ; no woman would think of
giving me anything, except, indeed, Ruth Blair ; and it isn't she."
"Hum, ha; one of the masculine persuasion ; me for a plum.
Your description fits me, and you would delicately hint that I
ought to offer you a new hat or a gown, or a gay gold ring; don't
press me till I'm my own man once more, and then-"
"Now Chandy, don't be'aggravating. It isn't you, of course;
I wouldn't mind if you did make me a present, just for the oddity
of the thing, though wouldn't I have flown at you once for only
proposing it ?"
" I'm all in the dark, Chris ; would you object to naming the
gift ?"
"Books."
"ovels ?"
"No, German books, rare and costly."
"Allons ; I comprehend; the scales drop from my obscured
vision. 'I give you my word that I see no reason for debate ;' you
may keep safely the books, and enjoy them. : The proprieties not
in the least outraged thereby."
"'Thank you," said Chris, with a sigh of relief; " and you don't
think I ought to speak to mother about it ?"
"Certainly not; cui bono."
"You are a dear good fellow, Chandos, and I really and truly
love you."

"Yaas, certainly, so they all say ; I suppose I must be very
captivating."
"Oh, Chandy, if you were the supercilious, 'self-loved person-
age, puffed up with the smoke of vanity,' that you pretend, I
could not love you."
"Why, Chris, Bailey says,
'It is the intensest vanity alone
That makes us bear with life,'
and I thinK there is a great deal in it, by. Jove."

I

811

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER'.


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      313

CHAPTER TWENTIETH.'
THE POSTILLION.
CHANDY'S note found steady, rosy-cheeked Peter in the field,
marshaling his ien, leading them through deeds of planting, but
also in the vein for a frolic, and he took the suggestion 'as a cat
laps milk,' and set about the arrangements with as much earnest-
ness as he would have given to trying a new reaper, and after a
busy morning, he came around to report progress.
"I've invited Dulcet Pettibone," he announced with a grin,
"and she said she 'opined that it would be pufficly delicious."
" What, the ancient learned tabby who, as she assured me,
persides in the temple of learning ?"'
" The same ; you never saw anybody so tickled as she was with
her invitation." -
" Who is to have the honor of being her escort? You mustn't
count on me ; I haven't digested Worcester yet, and I couldn't
stand the pressure."
" Why, she's sweet on Captain Slocum, and I thought it would
be fair to give her a chance to try on her fascinations in a new
sphere.".
"All right, Sir Peter ; highly meritorious. ' Sir, he hath not
fed of the dainties that are bred in a book, he hath not eat pa-
per nor drunk ink ; his intellect is not replenished,' but for all
that he has as firm a hand as any man in. Roaring River, and is a
fine judge of horses. Peter, my boy, I commend you."
"Yes, thank you, Chandy. The Captain was pleased, too,
he'll be sure to go. He said, he had been 'hankerin' after a- good
time, and he reckoned this occasion would about fill the bill."'
(312)

"Just so, Peter ; let's consider; one, two, three, seven girls, and
only six fellows. We must have another protective, Peter, my
boy."
"Well," said Peter, considering, " what doyou say to Jan Ved-
der ? He's at home now, you know."
" But isn't he rather nimble-.-frisky-fast ? You know the=con-
undrum, 'Who hath redness of eyes ?'
" Them Vedderses is all a bad lot, Universalists or Lutherans,
I don't know.which, and it ain't no consequence, they're about the
same," said the widow, with disgusted emphasis. " They wouldn't
take the Youth's Penny Gazette, didn't want no child's paper, they
allowed; as if what the Tract Society prints ain't good enough
for old or young. They had to send their boy to the old country
to his grandma to keep him out of mischief."
"'My grandma lives on yonder little green,
Finest old lady thatsever was seen,'
hummed Chandy; where does Jan's live ?"
. " Over in Holland among the vrows," said Peter, laughing ; he
liked his friend's nonsense.
" Very right and proper of Jan's parents ; 'home-keepingyoaths
have ever homely wits.' -'I intend to be sent the other side rmy-
s'lf one of these days. The mischief was a good investment,
provided it was only mischief."
" He blew up the college pump, and white-washed the Profes-
or's- old black mare."
Praiseworthy ; he tried his hand at making black white. If
that is all, we will have him by all means.. Lead him back to the
flowery paths of virtue e, mother; that's right, is it not ?"
" Jan is a good-hearted chap," spoke up Peter, stoutly, in spite
of the widow's elevated nose. " He'd do anything for a friend;
give away his last coat if anybody asked him."
"Soft .of him, was it not, 'mother.?"  Claudy winked at his
mother. "You and I know better. Those-poor Lutherans being
out of the pale, less will be retired of then"'


814        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S. DAUGHTER.

" Jan was a funny little cove, 'before I went to school; he and
I used to. make no end of cart-wheels of ourselves."
"There's a great deal of talk about him," objected the widow ;
"I don't think he's proper to go with decent folks. He drinks,
and they 'say he gambles."
"Kick him out, boot him down, he's got no friends. Well,
mother, I don't pretend to be much of a christian myself, but I
don't just look at things in ,that light ; Christ ate with publicans
and sinners; if he had gone on the 'stand aside, I am holier than
thou' plan, I don't know where we poor sinners would have got
in. I think Mary's son gave us a very good example to go by-.
it satisfies me for one."
His face was ,so serious that his mother screwed her gimlet
eyes into him trying to find out whether he were jesting or 'ear-
nest.
"Tap, tap, tap; flutter, flutter, flatter," and the old oak room is
adorned like a flower-garden, and "tinkle, tinkle, tinkle," drops the
music of fresh young voices. In fact, though our Chandy was
nearly well, the young folks could not bear.to give up their pleas-.
ant meetings, and they came strolling in by twos and threes, as
the Irishman said, " one in a gang, and two in a gang, and three
by themselves," to talk' over the horseback party, which delighted
them.
Pauline Bradshaw  followed Sabrina, as she did sometimes.
listening open-mouthed to all the talk, and turning it over for fu-
ture reference. Her sharp eyes took in at a glance -ethe wholc
contents of the room, human and otherwise, before she cast down
her shaker; and planting herself on a high chair, with her feet
drawn up on the top round, she seized theiearest book and began
turning it over 1todevour the pictures, while the young ladies dis-
cussed their promised pleasure.
" Chandy," said Zoe, " I wish you would come home to Roaring
River where you belong, and settle down. I consider you a bene-
factor of the race, and we sorely need some enterprising young
person, who has a mission for getting up frolics."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              315
"Thank you for nothing, Miss Walsingham; I intend to be
something besides master of the revels, though I do flatter my-
self that I am gifted in that capacity. Presumptuous Zoe ! (soul
that means,) you shall .yet live to behold Chandos Goldsmith in
the front door of the Temple of Fame."
" Blanche,.the Hug-not," read Pauline from the book in her
hand. "Who's she, Chris ?"  Pauline twitched Chris's dress to se-
cure her attention.
"One of a very pious sect, who lived in France," answered
Chris, absently.
"-Did they believe in kissing? no, I know they didn't, because
that was their name, Hug-not; did they Chris ? tell me."
"I suppose not," replied Chris, still hard at work among her
thoughts.
" Belle Brandon is not a Hug-not, that I know."
"What is that- you are saying about me, miss ?" exclaimed
Belle, facing about, and flashing her eyes' at the fearless child.
"Go on, dear," said Zoe, patting her; "explain your meaning."
" Why you see she," pointing -to Belle,' "can't be a Hug-not,
because I saw Chandy Goldsmith with his arm around her waist,
the other day, and she never said, ' Get out, hateful boy,' as I
should if Dick should pull me about s'o."
" That's right, proper child ! keep Dick at a safe distance."
"4Peter is a hug-not, isn't he, Zoe ?" 'asked Pauline, inno-
cently.
".Of course he is," replied Zoe, tossing her head; "we all are,
us Bradshaws and Walsinghams."
"Ah, mon dieu!" murmured Belle, darting baleful glances at
the two. " What an enfant terrible!"
Chandos looked extremely foolish under the, laughter which
greeted Pauline's pursuit of knowledge ; but he carried it -off with
a nonchalant air, and pulling out a penny from his pocket he hand-
it over, saying:
herer, child, always keep as sharp a look-out on your acquaint-
ances; and you will be reckoned a' jewel in society."


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTERS      37

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

Mrs. Goldsmith snuffed and drew in her lips in a kind of sour
amusement.
"Do you like butternuts ?" asked she.
"Yes."
"Well, go up into the wood-house chamber and you'll find
plenty of them.
"Now that's nice," said Pauline, rising with alacrity; "I like
you.
Do you?" said the widow with a grim smile at the unexpect-
ed compliment, for Pauline usually steered very clear of her.
" Yes, I like you pretty much, but I like Christabel ever so
much better."
"How so?" inquired Zoe, anticipating fun.
Sabrina sat on pins, and vainly tried to extinguish the irre-
pressible, who dodged all her reproving glances. She would say
her say, and pointed with her finger to make her meaning more
obvious.
"You see her fare 'is fine and smooth, and yours is all crumpled
up; that's why.. Now bring on your butternuts."
"What's the hods, mother, so long as you are 'appy," exclaimed
Chandy, clapping his hands in huge enjoyment of her position:
"sorry I haven't another penny for you, Pauline, but I'll give you
my blessing."
" Perhaps you would hunt me a penny if I promised to tell you
what Belle Brandon said about you."
Something nice, .of course," exclaimed Chandy, with affected
rapture. " I must try to bring out a picayune, I feel sure it will be
richly worth it.- Now then, here it is, fresh from the mint," hold-
ing the bright coin in his extended palm.
"Well, then, she said you was a p-h-u-1-e, and I want you to
tell me what :that is, for I don't know."
" raiment cette charmant Pauline has a remarkable mmory,"
said Belle, laughing merrily, right into Chandy's eyes, not even
changin color ; "she .remembers things which never occurred,"
"Christabel1"-'said Sabrina, rising hastily and trying to turn

the conversation from her very numerous little, sister, "let us see
your habit."
"I have none," answered Chris, who sat apart, darning stock-
ings, and whose eyes were red and heavy.
"Why, how doyou expect to look without; a, habit," said Zoe.
" They say our grandmothers rode tochurch and paid their .visits-
in their linsey-woolsey short gowns, and even some. on pillions,
behind their favored swains ; but that was.in the. infancy of civil-
izatiQn, when. John Alden's bride went to. be married on the milk-.
white ox. We their descendants know better."
"I shall not be of your party," said Chris, quietly drawing out
her needle.
A chorus of voices exclaimed and inquired directly-
"You are going-don't be absurd," said Chandos, promptly.
" What possessed you to come out with that statement ? "-
"A habit does not possess me, Chandy," answered Chris, try-
ing to speak lightly ; "and Zoe has demonstrated-the impossibility
of going without one ; therefore I must strive to possess. my soul
in patience at home."
S" Screw loose, mother," blurted out Chandy. "Jove! 'I shall
be driven to assume the command of this ship at-,an earlier pe-
riod than the law allows. There's something out of gear all the
while. Come, mother, expound."
He turned impatiently on the widow, who had retired into her
knitting since Pauline's attack, grim and stiff in her straight-
backed chair, and who frowned on the saucy fellow in most un,
promising rigidity.
"I know what it is, you want meto pick out one. I can do;
it-time is short, but--"
" Ch-istabel has got a riding-dress plenty good enough, all
she'll have tenerate. She can wear it or she can let it alone,"
The widow felt angry at the proposed frolic, as. she always did.
at any merry-making, and though she could not hinder it, she waS
not at all sorry at Chris' disappointment.
" I shall let it alone," said Chris firmly. "I cannot afford to
he always a.spectacle."

816


318        WIDOW GOLDSMITHS DAUGHTER.

"We are to be quite a party of make-shifts, I believe," insinu/.
ated Belle Brandon, in a sweet, childish way, her dimples all dis-
,played, and her eyes glittering. "-I for one-must improvise some-
thing. My Mary Ann is going to cut down a habit her mother.
used to curvet in; unfortunately for poor little me, I've got none
-" "and the little pig will have to stay at home," put in Pauline,
in the same breath, so that it all sounded like Belle's voice.
"If Christabel had a speck of come up. to her, she might do,
so too," grumbled the widow. " There's my habit, just as good
as new. I had it when I got married, and I-never put it ona my,
back half a dozen times.". And she glowered wrathfully over
the memory, how soon her young husband had forgotten to invite
her to accompany him in his long rides about the pleasant coun-
try. "Its the finest kind of broadcloth; there it hangs. She
can take it or leave it, just as she likes. I'm sure .I don't care a
pin about her going ; but she can't say she hain't had a chance."
" Why mother, that's nonsense," said Chandos. "An old-time
concern like that on my sister, and the party of my engineering."
The widow only drew out her lips more prim, and shook her
head about as if she'd got a palsy, and stabbed Chris with her
glances, and her stocking with her sharp needles.
" Let's see the habit," said Zoe. " I'd, like to look at a riding-
dress made that long ago."
" Yes, do, Christabel pet," chimed in Belle, "who knows but
we may strike out some original idea if you don it, which will be
available to us poor habitless mortals."
Chris fidgeted, and was about ungraciously to refuse. This
public discussion of her affairs was gall and wormwood to her ;
but Chandy saw no reason for any concealments, and called ot-
" Come, -mother ! you hear the request; toddle up and fetch
the garment, 'dispatch ! and say I sent you.' I'm going to have
this thing satisfactorily arranged. These-young spinsters are so
kind as to constitute themselves into a court of inquiry."
" Why Chandos Goldsmith! what impertinence ! Are you not
ashamed to speak like that to your mother ?"
"I don't think I blush, do I? (lifting his curls and presenting

his cheek for inspection.) Ask mother if she thinks I ought to
beg pardon. I'll do so immediately; she knows I'm her dutiful
boy -to command," he added, mischievously smiling in the widow's
face. The widow did not in the least thank Zoe for her interfer-
ence,, and took care to let her understand it. In fact she rather
liked Chandy's racy impudence, which was always mingled with
whimsical fondness. Therefore she performed her idea of'a com-
placent smile upon her handsome son, as she rose and stalked out
of the room to do his bidding.
The door to the studio was locked. It had been seldom opened
in the five years which followed poor Fred's death, and his relict
was therefore somewhat startled by a rustle and a commotion jn
the tenantless garret, close by the closed door ; and she stopped
a moment to listen. Behold Rainbow arose from a fragrant bed
of dried catmint, and stretched himself as from pleasant repose.
" The land sakes ! how did you get up here? that curless.- girl
must have let you foller her when she got the hops. You've been
at my catnip,. have you,.you nasty rep-tile. I wish it was hen-
bane; but, pisin won't kill you. I wonder if starvin will; I'll
try it anyhow. You may stay up here since you like the place.
I expect there's mice you can live on till you catch 'em, and after
that you can suck your paws like the bears.". She fetched the
dress and whisked nimbly down the stairs, banging the door after
her, and hiding the key in her pocket.- Stopping on the landing,
she called out-
"Come up and git this, Christabel. I've waited on you all I'm
going to." Perhaps she hated to meet her daughter's clear eyes
after preparing so aggravating a grief for her. Starving is a piti-
ful death to die, even for a cat.
Belle Brandon rose instantly. "Let us .go together and try it
on, and then well come down and show ourselves."
".That's right, do," chorused the girls, "and we'll, have a Di
Vernon tableau, if we can't make it available otherwise."
"' The affair cries 'haste,'-*and speed must answer it,"-said Chan-
dos, waiving them off.
Chris obeyed, slowly and unwillingly, following Belle's tripping

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       319: '


320           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S. DAUGHTER.
steps up the stairs. There, lay the. habit in a forlorn wrinkled
heap, and smelling dismally of camphor. It was of the ancient
cudt called a "Josey," and since revived under the name of " Pos-
tillion." - After some coaxing Chris permitted herself to be per-
suaded to put it on, with the hat, which was, a low-crowned
beaver, loaded with feathers,, and heavy enough' for a dragoon.
Belle laughed till the tears ran down her cheeks at the odd figure.
" Such a Guy !" said she ; " those funny little jockey tails !"
and she secretly resolved to move heaven and earth to induce her
to appear in .it. Chris, meanwhile, had almost forgotten what
they were about, so intently was she gazing at Belle. She was
thinking how like she was to the Geraldine in her father's studio,
with her red lips parted over her little sharp white teeth, her
dimpled, cheeks, soft floating hair, and the wicked bewildering
light in her dangerous eyes. She shuddered and felt chilly as
she looked, and, while Belle ran on in her ringing tones, she
stood as if under a spell.
"You have an odd way of staring at one, I must say," ex-
claimed Belle at length, finding that Chris was not listening to,
her talk.
" Have I?" said Chris, rousing herself, and passing her hand
over her face. "I'm afraid I was inattentive. What is it ?"
" Why, I have been wasting my breath telling you how to fix
your habit. A little trouble will bring it out elegant. I wish I
was half as well provided. I don't know what I am to do, I'm
sure."
Now Miss Brandon had, as usual, a little axe to grind in wish-
ing to be alone with Chris. She was at her wits-end for an out-
fit. Her allowance exhausted ; Mrs. Williams- deaf to all her.
talk. Having had.as yet no chance to show off her horseman-
ship to the Roaring Riverites, she was of course eagerly anxious
to go to the frolic. She had had lessons at Desbrough's, and
knew that-her blonde beauty was 'never so beautiful as when set
off by the} costume., She, looking on, and studying the faces
after her fashion, had seen from Chandy's looks that Chris would
be fitted to a-habit, and'while she could have slapped her for dar-

WIDOW GOLDSMITH' DAUGHTER.        X21

ing to possess such a handsome -brother, she thought peradven-
ture she .might turn the despised broadcloth to account for herself
should it prove of a choice fabric. She. was expert with her
needle, 'and not troubled by any delicate scruples. So her ends
were answered, and her appointments complete, she cared little
upon whom she levied for supplies.: ~But as soon as she set eyes
upon Chris thus arrayed, she changed her mind, and resolved that,
she should be made, by hook or by crook, to appear in it. She
so thoroughly \enjoyed seeing a friend ridiculous. It was nuts to
crack, and she knew how so delicately to contribute to the fun;
therefore she now put on her prettiest smile, and set herself to
convince Chris that the old habit was just the thing.
"I declare, Chris," she exclaimed rapturously, and allowing
herself for once to use ,a slang phrase, which, to do her justice,
she usually eschewed, "it will be gay. I'll come over and pin
up the.shoulder-seams this evening, if you will permit me, dear.
I'm sure you will like it as I pin it, because if I have a genius
for any line of business, it is fitting dresses."
" But I am afraid I shall be absurd," said Chris -doubtfully,
turning about and about before her mirror. " Those curious little
tails ! I wish they were curtailed. It looks like, that picture of
Hogarth's, where they are hoisting the fat woman into the stage-
coach.. The lean one who is waiting her turn has on exactly such
a thing as this. . If only I had time to take it to pieces and make
.it up afresh. But I couldn't do it if I had a millenium, for, as
mother says, I've got no gumption."
" Oh, they won't be noticed indeed, on horseback. It's the
general effect which tells ; and seriously, Chris, it.suits your style,
gives you an air Je ne sais quoi, like a lady of old romance, all
chivalry, troubadours, gauntlets, black silk masks, and hawks and
hounds."
" Really I must be an eminently suggestive personage if I re-
mind you of all that," said Chris quietly.
Belle would have stopped soon, any way, for she was quiteout
of breath with her enthusiasm, and all the while she was laugh-
ing inside, almost beside herself with delight at the astonishment

I


WIDOW~ GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

and mirth which she foresaw would greet the advent of the
Joseph, as well as appetizing deliciously before-hand the dismay
of exquisite Chandy, with whom she was doing her best to strike
up an ardent flirtation, without marked success. She abandoned
her first idea of producing Chris down stairs, reflecting that such
a premature exhibition would spoil all her anticipated fan, and
she demurely helped her off with the cumbrous head-gear, and
left her to-disrobe, while she flew down and exclaimed in gay
gladness, waving her dimpled hands, and clasping them, and set-
ting her head on one.side--.
" Dear Chris will be rarelyhabited. The fabric is. exquisite,
and after a little assistance which I am to render her this evening,
the fit will be perfect.. She sends compliments and declines to
show herself, which refusal she bids me endorse for wisdom. She
is a lucky girl, certainly, and has only to open her mouth and all
the good things make haste to drop into it. I must run off and
try what I can. accomplish in the robing line. I wish I was Mrs.
Peter Wilkins,-and had a neat little flying dress, how I would
blandly ignore all dressmakers.- Good-evening, gentlefolks."
Chandy concluded that it was all right, as Chris said nothing in
contradiction of Belle's statement. When he questioned her 'she
answered shortly that "she thought it would do," and he dismissed
the subject from his thoughts, and thoroughly enjoyed .a good
long game of chess with his well-armed opponent, Sabrina, while
the rest went their several ways.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE.
CHRIS WEIGHED IN THE BALANCE.
AT night-fall Otho came in, and in a very restless mood for
him. He fidgeted with Chris' spools, and punched the fire, and
sent the sparks out like flying meteorolites, until Chandy, out of
patience, exclaimed-
" Do put that poker down, Otho ! You make' my blood run
cold."
Chandy's speech caused him instantly to resume his usual grave,
quiet, dominating self at once. Drawing Chris into the deep
- window, he said to her--
"My mother has arrived, Sappho; I have promised to take
you to see her."
" Yqur mother, sir !" exclaimed Chris, paling and looking
frightened. "When am I to go ?"
" Now, this evening, if you will so far pleasure me."  -
"I think mother is intending to go to meeting, and Chandy
will need me."
"What .is it that I need ?" questioned that individual, who
overheard his name.
"I wish Christabel to go out with me for an hour, and she de-
clines on your account."
"I shall stay with my son," said the widow. "-A little devo-
tional reading will do him good after all the frippery talk there
has been in this house this afternoon. I am in the thirty-first
chapter of the Great Tribulation, which will have a salutary
effect."
(323)

" !,

822


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGI PER.      325

"None of that, mother," said Chandy, making 'a horribly wry
face.
Mrs: Goldsmith had entirely ceased to refuse Chris her liberty.
She had to do it, "my son" made such a fuss.
"I'm not a chicken that I should be hovered, I believe. Just
draw up the table and give me David Copperfield, and you may
all go to grass, and eat mullein."
"Dear'Chandy," said Chris softly, half afraid at her own dar-
ing; "please don't say such things ; they are unworthy of you."
"1Hump ! fiddlesticks ! what highfalutin folderols," growled the
widow.
"Our Chris'is blossoming out," remarked Chandy, laughing to
Otho. ."Every day she unfolds afresh--philosopher, scholar, poet.
She has one more role to try, woman of fashion, as soon as I get
well enough to attend to it; and to-day behold her as Minerva-
Mentor, and she reproves me, 'me, an old Castilian !' I can tell
you, Mentor, Belle Brandon is not at all of your opinion."  His
eyes were full of merry mischief, and I think Belle would have
feared him had she been present. " She only yesterday assured
me that a little slang, so it was quaint and delicate, gave piquancy
totconversation ; and still further, I made her confess that a soup-
gon of genteel swearing might- enrich and embellish one's Eng-
lish."     -
"I am not in the least surprised," said Chris scornfully. "Her
role just then was to fall in with what she supposed your opin-
ions. Though I must say I think the conversation does you as
little credit as it does her. I believe she was fooling with you.
She's too sharp to be taken in."
"I imagine Miss Belle likes a good many strings to her bow,
and she counts on Chandy to twang well," said Otho, smiling.
"A good. many beaux to her string, you mean ; well, I don't
object to dangle somewhat; she's a rare beauty, and she'll stand
a deal of looking at."
"Drop her, please," exclaimed Chris, disgusted.-
"With pleasure. 'These are .gracious drops.' I'll Pettibone
my grass and mullein for your polite ears. 'Proceed at your

earliest convenience to the arrhentherun, and prepare a matutinal
repast from the Ariscma triphyllum.' How does that suit you'?"
" Much the same as the other ; that is slang condensed, this
only slang elongated; besides, though you have secured some fine
long words, they unfortunately are the wrong ones. Arrhentkemzrn
means a kind of oats, and the other is only wild turnip."
" Oh.well, Chris, you shouldn't trip up a fellow's learning," said
Chandy,. squirming out of his mistakes.
"Don't view me with a cricket's eye,
But pass me a drink, for I'm awful dry."
pointing to the ice-pitcher, which he forced his mother to keep
supplied, in spite of her repeated declaration that the well water
was plenty cold enough.
Chris obeyed, smilingly, and Otho said:
"Miss Goldsmith is right, Chandos ; you must confess yourself
in a miserable minority."
"Let's change the subject, Otho. You may.tell me some more
about the art-school, while Chris rags out-excuse me, Mentor-
dons her habiliments."
Chris treated him to a hopeless glance, which made him laugh,
and went away for her hat and mantle.
Otho rose to open the door for her, as was his chivalrous habit,
and glanced uneasily at her soiled and crumpled collar, and fruzzy
hair, all tumbled by the beaver, and ignored ever since. He was
ready tomake a request, but checked himself, and drew back a
little haughtily, determined not, to interfere. Still, when she re-
appeared, he could not keep himself from scanning her with a
quick glance. But whatever his thought was, he said no word,
and offered his arm with his usual deferential politeness; and as.
they walked on he led' .the talk on their favorite themes, and lis-
tened to her remarks with his accustomed enjoyment.
The Groenveldts were at the Millville House, and were to go
up to Craigenfills on the morrow. Chris dropped her eyes and
colored painfully when Otho presented her to-his mother, and she
did not' dare to look up when' her offered hand was firmly grasped

0

324        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.


IDOW GOLDSIT S DAUGHTER.    WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

and she was greeted in a clear, decided voice. But when the
Professor spoke her name in genial tone and with a German end-
ing, and added to his accost a " God. bless you, Fraulein," she
raised her eyes eagerly to his face, and got what the voice prom-
ised her--an indulgent, fatherly smile, which reflected back from
her eyes instantly, and parted her lips in their prettiest curve.
Herr Groenvekot was habited in his dressing-gown, out of which
he hardly knew how to exist. He seated the blushing girl by his
side and, began to talk. He was as guileless as a child, and full
of gentle scholarship; and his son had but to start him on a fa-
vorite theme, and he launched out into all sorts of amusing am-
plifications, just such as Chris liked; and the troubled look could
not possess her face again, though some flitting shadows clouded
it whenever madame demanded her attention. Otho kept the
conversation mostly in his father's hands, however, by an occa-
sional question or comment, and was. secretly delighted at the
pretty thoughts Chris produced, and glanced furtively at his
mother, studying her aspect. She was a stout, business-looking
lady, possessed of excellent judgment, and the firmest of wills;
every way fitted to fill her position; but if her son expected any
encouraging glances from her clear eyes on a, decision he was
about making, or any help from her shrewd, practical sense, he
was utterly disappointed. She was sitting with her shapely hands
folded over her black silk dress, her wrists were shaded with falls
of handsome lace,, her collar was broad and rich, and fastened with
a rare cairn-ghorm which Otho brought her from Edinburgh; her
watch-chain was heavy and of choice workmanship, and every-
thing about her 'costly and befitting. Her manner betokened ha-
bitual control of herself and others, her faculties were all awake,'
calmly and coolly attentive.4~-
The visit was at an end. Madame had kissed Christabel's
cheek, and the Professor put her hand to his lips, German fash-
ion, and the young man and the maiden were on their way back
to Brookside. She felt glad that the ordeal was passed, and
breathed more freely, when Otho said in a tone even kinder than
usual:

"Sappho, will you do me a favor ?"
"Certainly, if 'I can," she returned in a glad' voice ; "nothing
would make me happier."
"It is only a smell matter, just to wear your hair next Satur-
day as you wore it that pleasant' day up at Craigenfells, which I
feel sure you-have not forgotten."
" Forgotten ! As if I could ever forget such a day; the first
really happy one I had known for so long."
"Thank you, Sappho. I take that as a personal compliment
to me, your host, and you will arrange your hair in that charming
knot to please me ?"
" I do not know yet, sir, if I am to be of your party ; but if I
am, I will certainly try my best, since you attach importance to
my style of coiffure, which seems to me a trifle, light as air."
Otho's face clouded, but he said :
" The party will be spoiled for me, Sappho, if you are not there.
I was out with Zephyr this morning, and I just whispered in his
ear the honor in store for him; 'twere a -pity to disappoint him.
I think I shall find a way to withdraw altogether, unless you
make my promise good. He never forgets a slight."
Chris, glanced archly at him. " You remind me of the :Puri-
tan maiden Priscilla," said she. "I must speak for Chandy;
your absence would sorely vex him."
"I think Zephyr will be out that day, and Tramp also,".said
he, smiling; " for my father is at Craigenfells, and he will tell
you more tales.
"I like your father, Otho; he is truly charming."
"And my mother ?" he asked quietly.
"I am afraid of her ; she looks into my soul."
"I hope she does; you would not suffer by such scrutiny. You
will learn to love her," he added, confidently. " She is.worthy of
all respect and 'affection. Here' we are, already., Won't you
give me a flower, Sappho, to lay onsmy pillow ? they say fresh
blossoms, culled by moonlight,' having touched only pure fingers,
bring dreams that come true."

326

327

WIDOW GOLDSIMITH'S DAUGHTER.

,
s                      -


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DDAUGHTER.     329

She stooped and plucked half a dozen pansies, and offered
them with a quiet smile. "I almost know what you will -dream
about," said she; "those Swiss pictures which are ever floating
about you."
"1 think I know also, and I shall pray that it may not be all a
dream; but you must breathe on them first ; put them to your
lips, that rounds the charm."
She obeyed him shyly, and he arranged the pretty, velvety
things in his button-hole, and bade her good-night at her mother's
door.
As she mounted the stairs, she called softly, "Rainbow, Rain-
bow ;" she wanted to whisper to him a little before she went to
sleep. She had, some dear thoughts, as well as some faint fears,
and a few doubts to think over, and it always comforted her to
hold him in her arms.
"You needn't call that there cat," said the widow from under
her night-cap; "because he won't come.
The sudden scream sounded in Chris's ears like the crack of
doom.
"Is anything-has he-has Bax Williams ?"
"I tended up to him myself. Pizen wouldn't do it, but I ruther
expect starvin"' will."
"Starving!" faltered Chris. " Oh, where is poor Rainbow ?"
" Up garret, Miss, where you let him in, though you've time
and again been told not to; and I've locked-the door on him. The
key is in my pocket, where I caccalate to hold on to't. You shall
fetch out the dear cretur before he gets to be carrin."
" Oh !" said Chris in a voice of' relief, which unpleasantly puz-
zled the -widow, and passing on her way, she softly shut her door;
then putting her head out at the =open window, she called again:
" Rainbow ! Rainbow !" and= soon she heard above her a quick
jump into the 'tulip tree, and asharp rustle among the' broad
leaves, which certainly was not the wind. It was a' leap for a
catamount'or for Rainbow, and in a minute he came purring about
his mistress and licking her hand. Whether he tarried to catch
the mice the widow told him about, or he had not finished his nap

I can't say, but here he was, bright and happy. I feel sure he
must have laughed to think how he had done his kind old admirer.
Chris laughed heartily.
" So the garret window was open, Rainbow, and you have left
the prison as you entered it, unknown to your jailor, who has the
key in her pocket ! She has not seen you take the leap as often
as I have."
"Permow," said Rainbow, and Chris leaned over the sill, and
caroled softly:.
" Those ponderous keys shall the kelpies keep,
And lodge in their caverns so dark and deep."

11

'I
I

{
328         WIDOW GOLDSMI-H'S DAUGH TER.

1
I


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      .31

CHAPTER TWENTY-SE COND.
A WILLFUL MAN MA.UN HAVE HIS WAY.
OTHo returned slowly to the hotel and found his mother wait-
ing for him. She was sitting by herself, and seemed to have
been intently thinking, for she had let the wax candles on the
table gutter fearfully, and she was a careful, thrifty house-wife, who
could abide no waste, even of hotel candles. The good Professor
had retired, and was already lapped in gentle slumber.
" Well, mother," said Otho, standing before her, and looking in
her face.
" Well, my son," returned she, avoiding his glance.
" You look aside while I speak to you, and you also make me
wait, two things which I especially dislike," said he, firmly.
"If you insist upon my utterance on that subject, I shall say
what will give you pain to hear. I may as well be plain, how-
ever. It will never do, Otho; so shy, so unfinished, and don't be
offended if I add so very dowdy. You would be ashamed of such
a choice a hundred times in every day ; you would'bitterly regret
such folly. I know you, my son, better than you know yourself,
and I tell you decidedly you must drop her out-of your thoughts;
your life else will be spoiled, made wretched by disorder, and
petty, annoying discomforts."
"She is so young," pleaded Otho; so good, so- true, so cultiva-
ted, so richly gifted. You surely will not condemn the poor child
for one fault? A year with you will set that right. Chandos has
been talking to me about the art school, which jumps with my
plans ; for I desire to have her with. Bertha and under your care.
(330)

You must do this for your only son; I am positive that my little
darling has been systematically left out in the cold."
"Little !" commented madame ; " why the girl is as tall as a
steeple!"
Otho, who did not heed the interruption, went on, walking up
and down:
"Once brought into a genial atmosphere of tenderness and
cheerful home-life, she will blossom like a rose. I asked her to play,
and the music ran rippling from her supple fingers. She sings in
notes as true as a wood-lark's ; she sketches, and her figures live.
I set her to write some rhymes, and she brought me a little pas-
toral in such tender, pleasant measure as has floated about me
ever since; she talks to me in a voice of thrilling music; she is
never at fault; she brings out stores of knowledge which amaze
and delight me, so rich and rare are they, and she does not know
one of her thousand attractions. So purely, simply modest is she,
that, she fears my frown, and looks for my approving smiles; yet
so richly endowed that with any one of her many gifts she might
make herself a shining name."
Madame looked politely incredulous, and her lip curled. " You
are in love, Otho; but allowing it all to be true, and the shining
name achieved, would you, Otho Groenveldt, the proud man, con-
sent to be an appendage to your wife, the husband of the distin-
guished Mrs. Groenveldt?  Enviable position, truly !"
Otho paused, with a gesture of angry impatience, and was
about to speak, but checked himself, and restrained his thought
with courteous deference to his mother.
"Bertha thinks-"
"I know what Bertha thinkss" said Otho, interrupting her
hastily, but still respectfully; " it is my life which is to be made or
marred, and not hers, and I wil not permit her to offer an opinion.
Mother," said he, stopping in his long stride in front of her chair.
" It is too late to talk ; my happinessis there."
" Have you then already corpmitted yourself?" exclaimed she,
with an alarmed.look."

I

d

1


S

X32

WWOW QQLDSMITIIS -DAUGH TER

"I think Chris must know that I'love her,. though I have never
spoken it in words."
"That is well, my son; you are wiser than my fears."
Dear mother, I feel sure you will be of my opinion when you
have found;of your own knowledge how truly good as well as
richly gifted is Christabel. I don't want a dressed doll for my
wife; I must have:a soul and a heart."
"Yes," answered madame, "and you must have them enshrined.
in.a perfectly cared for, wholesome body; believe me, a lady-like
-exterioris indispensable. When you say 'my wife,' you will not
like presenting to your friends, a head en coiffure, as'if the mock-
ing sport of -a whirlwind, nails dressed in mourning, and button-
less garments, frayed, and soiled, and tumbled. Indeed, I am
surprised that Miss Goldsmith did not think it worth her while to
array herself neatly, even elaborately, when invited to pay a visit
to your mother. Her appearance this evening was but a.,sorry,
compliment to you, dear Otho, besides. being very nearly a
disrespect to me."
" Mother, you are unmercifully hard upon poor Chris," said
Otho, in an offended tone.
"My honest wishes for your best happiness force me to be so."
".But:you :have seen her but once ;-you will change your opinion."
- "Yes I may, when Miss Goldsmith mends her manners, not
else, I assure you. If you had lived an age .ago I should accuse'
her of witchcraft;: as.it is, I cannot account for your curious fancy..
Dowdy women are not usually greatly in favor with your sex,
and particularly such as you," looking a. little proudly at him.
You would cease to wonder at what you call my infatuation,
if, you had hved for days together in her delightful society, as I
have."
"If only .she wore fresher collars."  Madanie shrugged her
shoulders.
Otho sat down, and leaned his head on his palm, and'thought'
"Can you. believe, my mother," said he, at length, "that there
lives a woman who would refuse to array herself, if the apparel
were offered her."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

438

"Perhaps 'not; but to what good if neatness and order are
wanting.?  Bertha is very Pearly perfect in this respect," she said,
with pardonable mother-pride, "and is therefore always an agree-
able object in the household."
" Bertha is all very well," replied Otho, smiling, " and is a dear
sweet sister; but Bertha is not a 'genius."
"No, thank heaven, she is not."
" Oh mother, don't set me down so sharp. -'I'wish I could coax
you to see as I see. Come, let me test my theory; I feel quite
sure -my poor Chris will have no gauntlets provided 'for her. I
wish you to order a couple of pairs immediately, from your mer-
chant,.one of them embroidered with her initials in a fanciful
monogram something like this."  IIe sketched a bunch of forget-
me-nots, among whose graceful stems he wove the letters, aslike
as possible to those he had seen on the handkerchief she carried
up at Craigenfells; and the exactness of the -copy showed how
his'memory treasured the veriest trifles which were associated
with her; and handed it over to his mother, who received it re-
luctantly.
" I feel sure she will choose this pair ; she cannot help observ-
ing the faithful copy of her own design. I heard her tell Bertha
she 'drew them herself, and I remember she worked them for her
brother ; they were delicately done. I doubt if she is often per-
mitted to please herself by any such adornments for her own
wearing. I feel confident that with her -poetic,'artist-nature, so
delicately appreciative, she cannot be lacking in any essential
points. Love for me will bring out the tastes which have}thus
far lain perdue ; and it shall be my care that she has leisure to
live her own sweet life, and adorn mine. You saw how ny father
liked her."
"Very possibly," said madame, raising 'her eyebrows; "he-is
not easily put out by disorder."
"cHeis a noble gentleman," replied Otho, warmly.
" He is, indeed," said madame, unmoved ; "your are quite right.
You cannot feel too much respect, or paytoo much deference to his
'opinions on matters of art or science% or upon points of nice honor

0


-.

3884

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.-

or christian charity; but you must own that the dear papa is not
an oracle Qn the tie of a cravat, or the selection and adaptation"of
a lady's toilette."
Otho, annoyed as he was, could not help smiling. ,He admired
his mother's round periods, as much as he did her handsomely..
dressed, matronly person, her white hands, her abundant hair;
and he came and "sat down close at her side, and took her hand-
kerchief from her lap, and played with its embroidered corners,
and passed the tucks through his fingers.
"These are trifles, my son," continued madame, after a thought-
ful pause ; "-but they embellish life if properly considered, or drag
it in the dirt if neglected."
"I feel all you say, mother," exclaimed Otho, tossing back her,
handkerchief, and rising from his chair. "You are wise, you
reason excellently, but my soul does not waver. I can only reply:
if Christabel Goldsmith will have me for a husband, with all my
faults, my chilly moods, and imperious temper, I shall be a happy
man. Only promise what I ask you; be- a friend to the poor
child who never has had any mother-tenderness. You are so strong
and so good, you have so much power."
" Thank you my son; assuredly my lovers are those of my own
household."
"Promise me, mother, to add one to the. number."
I think if grave, proud Otho's acquaintances had seen him now,
they would scarcely have known him for the haughty, masterful
man they were used to call Dr. Groenveldt; his face and manner
were humble and full of trust and confidence in his mother. She
returned his look with a fond study-of the features she had seen
changing from soft baby lineaments to proud manhood ; and with
a reluctant sigh, against her inclinations, against her' better judg-
ment, she gave her promise, and thus a' sort of sanction to his
wishes.
"And mother, I shall stay and fill the place of music master
for you' this year."
" What, abandon your plans ! I cannot think that best."
"sNot'abandon---my plans can wait. I am resolved to have

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

335

one yearof happiness before I cut loose from home forever. Re.
member that in Germany I should still lack two years of major.
ity, and I am content to be your boy a twelve month longer."
After a moment's silence and debate with herself, Mrs. Groen-
veldt answered cheerfully:
"As you please, darling; your presence is always precious to
us, and will be invaluable just now. I must own to you my
weakness; a year's reprieve will make me happy," (and as if
apologizing for her avowal,) "you have been so long in Leipsic,
you know, my only son."  And she secretly hoped thatthe evil
would cure itself, and that daily contact with a slovenly, careless
girl, such as she believed Chris to be, were she never so highly
gifted. must soon wear off the glamour which bound him; and
she forced herself to listen to his lover's raptures far into the
night, when she dismissed him with a mother's kiss and a fore-
boding sigh, firmly determining to do her best both to new-model
poor unconscious Chris to her pattern, and also to comfort and
counsel Otho under her final failure, which she foresaw to be
certain.

0


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S 'DAUGIITER.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THIRD:
THE SAPPHO KNOT.
IT was immediately settled that Chandos should commence in
the autumn as a pupil in the art school at Rosenbloom, and Chris
was to enter the finishing establishment of Madame. As soon as
it got noised abroad, Sabrina and Zoe decided to go also; and
Belle Brandon dispatched a letter to her uncle, asking permission
to finish there, it being the lost year of her school life. Then she
persuaded Mrs. Williams to send Mary Ann, that. young spinster
being to Miss Belle every whit as useful as the aphides to the ants,
and not to be left behind. Thus arose fresh causes of intimacy
between these young people, who looked gleefully forward to pass-
ing a year under the same roof.
But to return to the Josey. Chris's conversation with Otho de-
termined her to do her best to be of the horseback party. Belle
Brandon intentionally forgot her promise to come and help her,
hoping that she would be obliged either to wear the habit as it
was, or to stay at .home, and either horn of the :dilemma- suited
the beautiful blonde, who, had besides enough to do to engineer a
costume for herself. When Friday evening came and stillshe
did not appear, Chris decided to carry her troubles to Ruth Blair,
who came to her aid at once.
Some sort of change has certainly passed over the little matron
since first we met her. A sadder, graver face, a look of care or
trouble, which Chris was. quick to discover, but Ruth refused to
acknowledge, and as she set to work, she forced herself to be
chatty, often, however, falling into absorbed silence. There was.
(336)

short time to accomplish the task,.but Ruth made the most of it ;
she fitted the habit on to Chris's slim figure, took in the seams,
and "pinched and pulled, and by the aid of " Wheeler &amp; Wilson,"
she pronounced it, at ten o'clock, as complete as it could be made.
" If only I had time to cut off the tails, and pipe it around," she
sighed. "You might wear a belt, but that looks awkward on a
habit.- Why didn't 'you come sooner, Chris dear ? I could have
taken it all to pieces and made it lovely, not that it looks ill now.
Godey has something like it this month; who knows but. you
have jumped into the fashion, and now that we have unloaded
the beaver, and turned up the edge with my jet-and-gold brooch,
you. positively do look well."
." I am glad. I should like to be presentable. Now about the
Sappho knot. Iuth, I wonder if I can manage it, how odd it
seems that any one should care about my hair."
"Very pleasant, I should say," answered Ruth with a soft sigh.
" Attend as closely to my instructions as you do to your German,
and I will ensure you success.. You "must tie your hair first you
know, then hold it thus on your hand, and twist it so, bringing
it around smoothly. There, see how nice it looks. It becomes
you, rarely.
"I think it does. How I wish it would stay put till to-morrow
afternoon. I have a great mind to sit up all night, so as to keep
it perfect."
"Otho is extremely fastidious in his tastes. I wonder where
he will find a wife who can please him; he demands perfection in
women."
"I hope he will not find one. I like him best as he is," said
Chris, shortly.
Ruthl smiled. ' There, said she, 'you can manage it easily
enough I think.. Be sure to put in plenty of hairpins, put it up
'I'l do my best dean. If only you could come and dress it for
me."
" What time do you propose starting?"
"About twelve o'clock, I believe."

{ -

q

I

'831


338-       WIDOW GOLIFSMITE'S DAUGHTER.

" I cannot leave home at that hour," said Ruth with sudden
gloom. "George has taken his Saturday afternoon to put in' the
Limas, and I will not be absent."
"Don't think of it," answered Chris, quickly. "I am sure I
can get on myself. One more kindness added to all the rest, yet
I don't feel them heavy."  She went up to her friend and kissed
her fondly. " I bide my time to repay you. The wheel may
bring me up high enough sometime. Good night, dear, dearest
Ruthie. What ! eyes full of tears again ! I cannot bear to see
them: sweet eyes! you know how to smile, don't cloud your
brightness, your loving glances with tears."
" Nonsense, child ! Your foolish speeches would draw tears
from stones," said Ruth, dashing her hand across her face. "'What
is it to you if my eyes I'm a-wiping.' There go now."
" Well, I suppose I must," she looked around the room. "I
love every inch of this place. Ruthie, you've been such a friend
to me. My friend and comforter forsook me, and you took me
up. I believe I shall come some day, and live here with you. I
feel sure of it. Do you believe in presentiments ?"
"No, I do not wish to believe in them," answered Ruth.
" Well, I must go. Kiss me once more. Your's are mother
kisses ; all I get. You are a pretty little mother. I wish I had
a blood-right in .you ; you should tell me something. Good-night,
little Husband, how soundly he sleeps."
Rainbow followed Chris in at the door of the oak parlor, and
sat down in the middle of the floor, and demurely washed his
face.
" The old cat and all1" ejaculated the widow. " Where'd that
pesky rep-tile come from ?"            -
" I suspect the garret window must have been open, mother,"
said Chris, exchanging a funny look with Chardos.
" What if 'twas, he can't fly can he ?" adjusting her glasses,
she glanced at him as if she expected to discern folded wings
beneath his great paws.
"No mother, but he can jump."
"The land sakes ! You don't mean to tell me, that that brute

WIDOW GOLDSMITH    AUGIIT+'ER.        339
jumped out of the garret window and come down alive. I should
have thought he'd a been smashed- all to bits."
" He is here, you see, in good preservation."
" Well! I will give up! I believe he must be that kind that
goes with a broom-stick."
" Should'nt wonder, mother," laughed Chandy, who instantly
comprehended the joke and hugely enjoyed it. "I've noticed that
he always watches yours closely. Perhaps he expects to meet
you out, some walpurgis night."

f

v


WIDOW GOLDSIlTH'S DAUGH1 ER.      341

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOURTH.
" Come up ye horses!
Rage ye chariots."
The riding party met by appointment at Brookside, not be-
cause it was particularly central, but because my Lord Chandos
willed it so. Belle came first, cantering gaily up, by the side of
Mr. Hauxhurst, who had, also, Mary Ann Williams under con-
voy. She was looking radiant in a habit of bottle green. A long
ostrich feather floated out from her jaunty little cap of green
velvet.
'Twere long to tell, through how much weariness and vexatious
management she had gotten together this tasteful outfit. The
habit she had browbeaten Mary Ann into taking from    the
Gonecusset store. The hat she madam from a spencer of her own.
The feather she borrowed willy nilly of her hostess, but at last,
here she was, all smiles and gaiety, putting far behind her all un-
pleasant memories. She sprang lightly to the ground, and ran
up the steps into the old oak parlor ; but disappointed in her hope
of finding Chandos there, with whom she projected a short flirta-
tion. The grim widow, clicking her needles, being the only oc-
cupant, she gave her a musical " Good evening," and went un-
ceremoniously up to Chris' room, where that poor child was ready
to cry over the Sappho knot, which stubbornly refused to be made.
'Bon jour, Chris dear," said she melodiously, and pushing her-
self in between her and her mirror, to inspect her ringlets, trying
to coax a wanderer into the ranks; she seized a long shell comb
which lay in its semi-circular box on the toilette, saying coolly:
"I'm going to break this, Chris, of course you don't 'care."
(340)-

Before Chris could speak it was snapped in twain, and the self
ish girl was employing one of the pieces among her blonde locks.
Chris darted her a look. The comb was her father's gift. She
used to wear it in the old days when he loved her satiny curls.
It had lain -perdue in its box, and therefore safe ever sinCe.' Chris
had never put it quite out of sight. Though she bit het: lips,
she said quietly:
" You are easy in your manners, I think, Miss Brandon," and
went on fixing and unfixing her long heavy hair, and all tb no
purpose. She could not make it smooth.
Ruth had done it a couple times, but to-day, it was obstinate
and full of total depravity; the top was too large and the sides
were frowsy.
"What are you laboring at ?" asked Bele, turning about to
watch her.
"I want to make a Sappho knot."  Chris :dropped her arin,
and rested them, gazing hopelessly -at her disheveled image.
"A what ?" asked Belle, quickly.
Chris could have beaten herself for allowing the words to slip
out in her pre-occupation, and she answered a little tartly:
'. I am trying to dress my hair, as perhaps you perceive, Miss
Brandon.
"Why don't you have a coil ?" Belle asked, after watching her
a minute.
"Because, in the fii'st place, I don't know how to make a coil;
and -in the second place, I want this, and I intend to have it," said
Chris, going to work again.
" But a coil is prettier than a knot, Sappho knot, I think you
called it," smiling meaningly in Chris' face.
"You are in my light, I cannot see."
Belle moved aside without showing the least anger, and fell to
thinking. Here was Christabel Goldsmith, who never cared in
the least about herself, and who'always wadded up-her hair in'the-
easiest and quickest way,'obstinately bent upon a particular style
of cofre. Ego, she 'had an object in view. She ministbe fry-
ing to please somebody, at the particular request of that some-


342         WIbow GOLDSMrITH'SDAUGHT ER.                              W

body. Yes it must be, because she of herself would never have
originated such a wish ; of course it was a suggestion, plain as day,
so she said.
"I wish I was of consequence enough to be desired to wear
my hair in ady particular way, I'd make my arms ache, and snub
people too.".
The burning blush which suffused Chris' face, satisfied the
angler that she had caught her fish. It was a request, and she
made a shrewd guess at the requestor, and looked wicked over it,
malicious and envious both.
" Let me do your hair," said she eagerly. I think if. Chris
had looked into her eyes, she would. have refused, for she was
very like the Geraldine indeed ; but her arms were tired, her pa-
tience exhausted, and she despaired of success.
" Well then, fasten it firmly," said she dropping into a chair,
and surrendering herself reluctantly to her self-appointed tire.
woman. "Ruth said it must be put up with plenty of hair-pins."
" Never fear me, I think I can dress hair about as well as Mrs.-
Blair. By the way, what's the matter with your friend."
"Why," said Chris, suspiciously ; if she had looked up she
would have seen Belle studying her face in the mirror.
" Oh, nothing in particular, only I fancied she was rather
quieter than she used to be, and even a little sad sometimes. Does
that Achilles of her's ever dissipate ?"
"No," answered Chris, " of course not, his habits are perfect."
" Well, I did'nt know, those working men do sometimes get in
bad ways I suppose. It would be a pity, he is a splendid speci-
men-of a giant, is he not. I've a great mind to coax him away
from her just for fun."
" That won't do, it feels heavy and tumble-down," said Chris,
who experienced the extremest disgust at that kind of talk, and
was- at no pains to hide it.
"It is quite firm I assure you, however. The style being dif-
ferent, to:what you are-accustomed to wear gives it that feeling."
".But it pulls. I don't like it so. I am afraid it will not stay,"

persisted Chris, moving her head about as if she supported a
cumbrous weight. "rIm sure it is, shaky.'
" Well then, do let me stick it full of hair-pins, like a pin-cush-
ion, and see if that will suit you," said Belle,- impatiently.
" Come, hurry up, you females in the upper regions, only five
minutes more," called out Chandos from the hall.
" Three will suffice for us," answered Belle. While arranging
her dimples in the mirror, her eyes lighted on a paper parcel,
half open on the toilette.
"Oh, what lovely gauntlets !" she exclaimed, rapturously seiz-
ing them, "where did you get them? Not in Millville, I know,
for I shopped everywhere. I wish Ihad a pair, gloves are so
vulgar, with a habit. Why, there are two pairs, and those mono-
grams, was there ever anything so sweet! May I just fit on this
one*? I am sure they are exactly my size. Yes-I thought so,"
and without waiting for Chris to answer, she drew both on, and
seizing a promiscuous hair-pin, she buttoned them around her
wrists, and drawing the cords with her teeth, she had them fast,
patting the tassels admiringly.
" "How puflicly delicious, as Dulcet says, such a lovely fit ! I
declare I hav'nt seen such a glove in an age. Why, it looks as
if it grew on my hand. How lucky that you have two pairs, and
your quiet'taste would of course choose the plain ones. Know
I am a wicked little witch to.dote on such vanities. We two
shall rise sublime above the other girls, who shall, behold us with
envy. 'Only you and I. It seems as if the world was made for
only you and I."' Ne ce est pas mon ange ?  She hummed the
melody in such clear liquid tones, that Chris ceased her dressing,
and turned about, and gazed at her. Belle observed the odd
glance, and instantly did a bit of the gushing-kissing her de-
monstratively..-
"I only hope I shall have something you will like as much as
I do these gauntlets, sometime. It is so nice to oblige one's
friends. Ah,.I see. you think with me ; such speaking eyes as
you have. What was .it Mr. Hauxhurst compared them to? . I
assure you such little exchanges are very common in society. I've

WIDOW GOLDS3IITH'S' DAUGHTER.    343,


344         WXDOW GOLDSMIT's DAUGHTER.
seen ladies borrow jewels and shawls and everything, but of course
one could not permit common people to take the liberty of lend-
ing one anything."
Never had Chris possessed=any article of dress to which she
attached'such value. Otho's friendly looks, and: his odd history
of the glove, the gantlett. the handshoe, and the descriptions of
their manufacture; and of the pretty Grisettes in the Paris shops
.who fitthiem so daintily, had amused her much. It seemed like
desecration to see them on Belle Brandon's hands.
"I think I'll just run down now. I'm all ready you know.
Such great characters as you Miss Goldsmith, should-have heralds
to prepare their way." She hurried off and had reached the stair-
case before Chris could speak.
" Stop; Miss Brandon," she said, calling after her in a short de-
cided voice. "I 1on't wish to seem disobliging, since you have
been so kind about my hair."
"Oh, don't mention such a trifle, you make me blush, really.",
"I cannot permit you to wear my gloves. Please take them off
directly."
"Oh, but you must permit me, because possession is nine parts
of the law, and you see I have got them," holding them provok-
ingly up before their baffled owner's gaze.
" Perhaps you have not observed my monogram on the back ?"
"Indeed I'm not so blind, sweet forgetmenots ! They speak a
tender language to my heart. They are all the more precious to
your friend for that."
"Be so good as to take them off without any more foolish talk,"
said Chris, trying hard to keep cool.
"I will, dear, if you will tell me where you got them."
Chris colored high, and kept silence.
"-I'll kindly spare your blushes, you precious child. You are
quite flushed, do bathe your cheeks in magnolia water before you
come down. So much red is not becoming to you. Au revoir,
I'll say you are coming."
"Belle Brandon !"'Chris made a dart at her, "you shall iiot
Wear mgloves, you unprincipled, shameless girl"

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S- DA;UGH' ER.

The last half of' her objurgation was uttured:.solus, for Ielle
had floated down the stair-case, and she heard her clear voice in
high toned conversation with Chandy in the:hallh A ashe paused.
and listened it sounded from the parlorin tunefulYgusts, and4ring-
ing childish laughter.-. Chris tramped up and down, trying, to
dominate her anger, and restrain her impulse .to run after her-and
force her to give back her treasures
" Oh,'what will Otho thinkof me," she exclaimed:'passionately,
her eyes briming with angry tears. Again Chandos calledgimpa-
tiently, and she was forced to-finish dressing, and {try to quiet her.
self with"the resolve to tell her good friend the whole, story the
first opportunity. " She shall not spoil my day if I can help it,"
said she resolutely, and she made a violent effort.to clear her face,.
and put away her anger, and she slowly descended the stairs, fit-
ting the discarded gauntlets on toher hands which still trembled
with passion; unconsciously turning- half aside her still stormy,
eyes and averting her crimson cheeks. As soon as she appeared
in the doorway, which framed her like a picture, Zoe held up her
hands and exclaimed:
" Well, I think wonders are beginning. Chris. Goldsmith ahead
of us in fashion. Do look at her postilion."
" What do you mean," spoke up Chris, ready to takeoffence;
after her recent experience.
"Just what I say. The new style of -waist. I meant to have
one, but Miss Makenup did: not like. to undertake without what
she calls her 'patron.' Is'nt the effect charming?"
" Very," said1 Belle, aside to her foil and sir. Hauxhurst, drop
the skirt and substitute yellow leathers, and she would look fit.to
ride Jockey for the cup, next races."
The girls all, gathered around Chris, the center of attraction,
for a novelty, and questioned and admired, would hardly.believe
when she told them it was a fashion of her mother's youth.
"Well, they do say there is nothing new under, the sun, and I
begin to believe it," said- Zoe, and, she whispered in. Chris' ear.
" I'm tremendous glad you look so pretty, prettier than any of-us,"
thus calling up a shy conscious smile, which chased away the


346          WiDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
shadow and heightened the beauty. Then she laughed lightly, and
danced off to Chandos, before whom she performed an elaborate
courtsey,,and inquired:
" Might it please you, Sir MC., to inform us when we are to
start !"
"We are not all here yet," replied Peter, to whom a side-glance
showed the inquiry to be really addressed.
" Ah ! here comes Otho," said Chandy. " My gracious, what
a splendid fellow Zephyr is. Looks gay though for a lady. I.
hope you are sure of yourself, Chris."
" I'm not afraid," replied she readily, "especially," she added'
with a shy look at Otho, "as Dr. Groeuveldt has'promised both
to take -care of Zephyr and to teach me to manage him."
"Oh !" exclamed Belle, clasping her hands in real or affected "
terror, " what a restless eye that creature has. 'If you should
be thrown or dragged through the streets, how dreadful."
Old Thomas, who had ridden Zephyr in from Craigenfelds in
the morning, and who now held his head, heard the remark, not
at all pleased, said quickly, lifting his hat to Belle :
" You may calm your fears young lady, Miss Chris can ride
Zephyr. Every body could not do it, he's a -smart fellow, and
knows who he must obey."
Zephyr seemed to feel that he was the subject of conversation,
and stood pawing the turf with his little hoof, and glancing over
his shoulder at Chris, as if he liked her looks.
" Be so good as to keep your information till it is desired," said
Belle, haughtily, much displeased at the quiet set down she had
got.J
Otho, meanwhile, had dismounted and tossed the bridle on
Tramp's neck, and now stood by patting him, and he called to
Thomas.
" Certainly sir. I will see that it is attended to. You know
Deb{worships her, and she'll be sure to think of- it. But Mr.
Otho," he added in a low, respectful voice, as if asking a great
favor, "let me put Miss Chris on sir,.if you please."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S, DAUGHTER.             347
" Why," questioned Otho, a little haughtily. "Do you doubt
my skill'?"
" No sir, not at all, sir, but Zephyr is notional as a Boston lady,
and he must be started right, sir. lie's as kind as a dog, (patting
his glossy neck,) a child might drive him with a thread, but I shall
feel. better if I put Miss Chris on myself. I want to speak a lit-
tle to her about managing him."
"I don't at all see the 'necessity of that, Thomas," said Otho
impatiently. " I propose to take care of Miss Goldsmith, and I
profess myself quite equal to the task."
"Well, just humor an old man for once, Mr. Otho. She was
a little maid those times, and she was just the light of my eyes.
I laid my sweet Bessie away under the daisies that spring, and
I seemed to turn to her, me and Deb, we"'loved her like our
blood."
Otho stood aside immediately, and Chris, who had been wait-
ing at a little distance, with her habit gathered up in her hands,
for what she supposed final orders-from master to man-came
forward now, ready for Otho to put her on. She flushed up scar-
.let, and sent a quick inquiring glance from one to the other, when
Thomas knelt and offered his hand, and Otho stood apart. She
could not understand it, but she had little time to consider, for
the nervousness of mounting before so many witnesses, who all
ceased their talk to watch her, put all other thoughts out of her
head.
" My dear little lady," said Thomas, 'in a voice 'for her only,
"there's a pair of wicked eyes beyant, would shine to see you
leap short, or plunge over. Steady now, I've your pretty foot firm
in my hand."
She' accomplished the feat easily and gracefully, quite -to his
satisfaction, and while he stood by her and adjusted the slipper,
and arranged her dress; he added--
"I hope you've not forgot the old lessons.. Settle yourself in
the saddle, left hand well down, head up, straight and easy, bold
and modest. Yes, yes, you do remember the fine bye-gones, and
you such a bonny wee child. Zephyr is kind, Miss Chris, never


848       . winoW GOLSMTa'S, DAUGHTER.
feel fear of him, but he won't bear the whip. You must give him
your confidence ; he loves to be trusted, he's young and frisky--
and our good God keep you safe my child, and bless you forever
and ever," said he with sudden emotion, touching his forehead as
he gave the pretty animal his head, and stood aside.
Never had Chris looked prettier. The excitement brought a
deeper glow to her cheek, and the tender tremble in old Thomas'
voice, while he recalled the dear childish pleasures, filled her eyes
with softenedlight.
She had forgotten Belle and, her doings. Everybody was kind,
they praised her dress, nothing out of place or keeping there.
Candy said 'she looked prime, as soon as he set eyes upon her,
and waived his hand, and added:
She is alive, behold
Her eyelids ! cases to their heavenly jewels,
Begin to part their fringes of bright gold."
And she had to close his mouth with her hand to stop his non-
sense, and the quotation then went on bubbling out of the corners,
and his hand kept on waiving. The last voice she heard as she
turned, Zephyr's head from the door-stone, was her mother's who
sent a tender parting after her.
"Now, Christabel Goldsmith, do take care of yourself, and
don't go and break your bones, and come back all smashed to bits
for me to nuss."
Ignoring all Belle's coming strategy, Dr. Groenveldt placed
himself at the side of the -one girl in the party who could attract
him, and he scanned her with a pleased glance. She did not see
the half shadow which swept 'across his face, when his eyes rest-
ed upon her gauntlets. It was but an instant, and he said to him-
self; "her quiet good taste has guided her to select the plain ones.
It is after all as I would have it. My impressions of her are
right, yes, she rare and lovely is to-day," and he proudly thought,
how certainly his mothermust approve of her.
In sweet content, Chris trotted on, and her rose-colored thoughts
drifted toward the tall, dark man at her side. " How good, how

WIDOW GOLDS TaE'5 DA G~       .          349
noble he is, to interest himself so kindly in me. HowI do wish
I could do something to prove my gratitude. The ride prQrnmied
well to our, Chris, for after all, the sunshine must come from with
in which gilds our surroundings.
They were quite a dazzling party, riding down thelong street,
and people paused to admire and wonder as they clattered past.
Women came to the doors with their work, in their hands,. and
from some cottages highly ornamented with children, who. fes-
tooned all the windows, and swarmed up the fences, they were
encouraged to " come up !" "Go it, two-forty on the plank road,"
and "save their wind for the home stretch," and other horsey ad-
vice, which, to judge by the contortions of.figure and countenance
with which the juveniles accompanied it was highly enjoyable to
them, whatever it may have been to the equestrians.
Captain Slocum and Dulcet had not arrived till they were
about starting, and he was in rather a biting humor, from having
been made to wait, and had stood on one leg in Mrs. Pettibone's
doorway, beating off her June roses with his whip, lending un-
willing attention to the old lady's circumstantial relation of the
.untimely end to which she had brought one of'her biggest geese,
last picking time, by. holding it between her knees, while she
stripped off its feathers.
"I said, sekz I, lay still, Goosie, and after a few flops, I hope
she did lay as still as a toad in a rock, and when I let up her, head,
there she was, 'as limpsey as a rag. Eyes sot, no use doipg
nothing."
Here the Captain tramped, off to jerk. up the horses heads,
leaving the good lady comfortably rocking and ambling on in her
narration.
" Jericho, if that female school ma'am is going to prink all day,
I shall vamose the ranch."
Dulcet came down at this point in his reflections, and explained
in a mollifiying voice, as she mounted her steed:
"I'm so pufficly fastigious in my style, Captain Slocum; I.wknob
you can't object to that in a lady, and curls are such teazing
things to hang. I do not go often on pleasure excursions, partic-


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGaTER.       851.

ularly equestrian, but when I am invited by a gentleman who un.
derstands himself and is discerning and appreciative, I like to be
appropriately appointed; puffietly free from encumberment, and
know that my tout ensemble is worthy of encomiastic mention, in
order thoroughly and entirely'to surrender. myself to the full and
absolute enjoyment of the festive'occasion."
" If you've done reeling off those remarks, Miss Pettibone, I
think we might as well be travelin." Though the Captain rather
admired the spinster's long words as an unknown tongue, he was'nt
going to let her find it out, and he threw himself across his beast,
and started off on a hasty trot, saying curtly:
"iNow -ma'am, let her quilt."
Poor Miss Dulcet daral not show any indignation, and per-
formed the journey in a series of bobs and bumps which she pro-
nounced in spasmodic "utterances to be "pufficly delicious." It
was patent that she had taken plenty of time in getting herself
up, regardless of trouble. She had her curls done in at least a
hundred and fifty little corkscrews on each side of her thin face,
just the faintest soupcon of rouge on her cheeks, and the powder
laid on so thick that it plastered her very eye-brows; her frills
elaborately crimped, and her hat tied beneath her chin in spread
bows to hide some deepish lines thereabouts, and her rail of a
figure so pinched that every breath was an achievement. In her
hat of domestic manufacture, and a gene-ral pinched pattern, she
had mounted half a dozen cock's feathers plucked -from her moth-
er's finest fowls for the occasion. She pointed them out triumph
antly to the girls. " Godey has them in his last number, I thought
I would lead the'style for you, being your teacher, and possessing
more experience than most of you."
The Captain 'had been for years a stock breeder on a Texas
ranch, and the beasts which carried him and Dulcet, were a couple
of thick legged, round-bellied, cow-ponies,'who had been trained
to scour away like mad, over the prairies, and amongst -the jun.
gles of the-chapparel, and head in the wandering cattle, and had
fierce eyes, full of red veins in their restless ever tossing heads,
like wild buffalos. But the Captain said they "were as gentle as

Jerusaleni crickets," and they trotted along quietly enough to cor-
roborate his rather rash assertion.
Mr. Hauxhurst, George Blair's friend, had plenty of occupa-
tion in escorting Mary Ann- Williams, who was dreadfully afraid
of her steed, and kept her eyes fixed on his ears, and was cQU-
stantly saying: " Oh dear, what is he going' to do now ?" every
time he sneezed, or hook his head, and she clung to the pommel
with both hands, and all her friend's stinging ridicule cpuld not
force her to sit up and look like a lady.
Chandy's school friend, Sam  Slaughton, had arrived in Mill-
ville the day previous, both to see his chum and the Groenveldts,
as he proposed trying the Art School in the autumn, and he
joyously entered the arena as escort to Miss Brandon, whom
Chandy set forth in'vivid description as the "blue eyed and beau-
tiful," and very well satisfied he seemed with his venture, to
judge by the close attention he gave her dimples, ringlets, and
pretty speeches, which were all set forth for his benefit. Chandy
took hold of her arm and told' her behind his hand, with his face
about three inches. from hers:
S" Good looking fellow, Belle, 'a merrier man, within the limit
of becoming mirth, I never spent an hour's talk with-all,' stunning
.relations,;lots of tin-worth hooking-fix your bait and I'll help
you haul him in."
This was in the oak parlor, while they waited, and Belle obeyed
Chandos' instructions, and watched for success.
" Now boys," said Chandy, "I'm grand marshal, and I'll ex-
plain my tactics. We don't need to freeze to any of the girJs in
particular, but we will use our inalienable right to pursue hap-
piness, which belongs to us as citizens of our dear Republic, by
circulating round."' Notwithstanding this explanation, Peter
seemed .somewhat inclined to adhere to little Zoe Walsingham,
who,:daring young:gypsey, had come out in a crimson velvet habit,
and round cap of the same, set off by a white plume floating over
her shoulder, and she so filled honest Peter's eye and absorbed his
attention, that he had no words or smiles for any other. Thus
handsome Chandy had Sabrina Bradshawall to himself. Her get

WIDOW. GOLDSMIT I'S   fAtGIITER.


3,2        WIDOW GOLDSMITHa'S DAUGHT1 R.

up was faultless. Herhabit of deep grape purple, her little linen,
collar and cuffs, fine and white, her "abbreviated stove-pipe" of a
hat;'just the nattiest thing of the kind, andshowing. her rich rip-
pling mass of dark red, hair firmly secured beneath it.  Her-
gauntlets, fitting, trim and- close, and dainty bit of mouchoir peep-.
ing from her breast pocket, her exquisitely carved French whip,-
artistically grasped in her firm little hand, and every breath of-air:
brought his:pleased sense the faint perfume of wild violets
which always floated about her. Sabrina -Bradshaw lived a rich,
fullAround life of hefr own, and had vitality enough to spare, when
her:friends wantedher. Her perfect vigorous organization made
her independent of all fine lady ailments, and she could follow out,
anyplan of action or pursue any amusement without the pay-
ment in lassitude and headache which weaker constitutiorns have
to suffer, and her help and smiles and thousand kindnesses were.
lavishly bestowed upon all who needed them. A five mile walk
was only play to her, with a winter bath in Echo, lake at its
termination. She knew all about ,the farm, and always listened
with interest to her father's talks with Peter, anad held opinions of
her own upon soils and sub-soils, and;stock. Her father said she
was just. the woman to be an old maid, being suff'ieent to herself,
giving much to those around her, and receiving little, and he pri-
vately believed that there was'nt a man living good enough for
his quest nly daughter. She always gratified the exquisite tastes. of
Sir John Chandos. Her dash and style, and-easy confidenlt grace
inspired him, and he never was so genial, so mirth provoking as
in her delightful neighborhood. Spicyr talk, smart repartee, quaint
quotations, flew about, embellished by gay laughter
The soft June air and sweet flower-smells; the'tinkling brooks,
coyly hastening away from them; the rustic fence and old mossy
walls which' shut in the capriious winding of, their road; the
little bridges over which, they.noisily, clattered; the, delicious bits
of view.they goton the hills, each'a picture and study; the spicy
whjffs-of odor.their, hoof-prints crushed out of the young juni-
pers and ground pines, (they rode many abreast here, and the
utmost ones brushed: the trees with their garmcents); and above

all, the. wood notes wild, of our dear bob-o-links: and brown
thrushes, and the prolonged melody of our' cardinals who were
out also on a gala, with the undertones of frogs and singipg tree-
toads and buzzing insects, and the master harmony of the cease-
less mad music of Roaring. River, all attuned into the majestic
anthem of "unwritten music," arranged before the floods sang
together. Very likely these young people could not- have anal-
yzed their;pleasure; but unconsciously they were wrapped in sen-
suous enjoyment, and the horses did their best also, tossing' their
ringing head gear, chaffing their bits, to help out the spectacle.
" Well, the horse is a noble animal !" said Chandy, taking off
his hat and letting the windlift his heavy curls, as he gazed ad-
miringly at Zephyr and Tramp ahead. of him.
" What an exhaustingly original remark," laughed Zoe. " Don't
you feel faint, Chandy ?  Do give him  a pepper lozenge, some-
body."
" Some ladies like toy-dogs, and some. dote upon cats, but as
for me give "me a horse," exclaimed Belle gushingly,:to Sam
Slaughton, in whom she discerned a true horse lover.
"Very correct, Miss," remarked Captain Slocum approvingly.
" There's difference in'tastes and in opinions,
Some likes apples, and some likes inions';"
feeling thatfhe:had struck a vein of philosophical poetry which
must delight Miss Dulcet, the captain pulled up his shirt collar,
planted 'his hand on his hip, and grinned 'at her.
"Yes," said she, blandly bowing. "A quaint bit of' English,
captain, quite Saxon, very forcible. . Do you. know I used.to suf-
fer extreme torture in seeing horses whipped, till I came to reflect
that they were pachydermatous animals, which somewhat con-
soled me. Don't you think Captain Slocum. that it is a. good
thing to be pachydermatous ?"
".I should say it wos, an, excellent thing, ma'am," replied the
puzzled captain, looking through his screwed-up eyes at his -pony's
left ear,

WIDOW GOLDSMITh 'S, DAUGHTER.         e e ,'3


354        WIDOWGOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

-" 'Tip-top for school boys, as we might testify, eh, Sam," laughed
Chandy.'
"Ask Belle Brandon what- she thinks about it," called out
Christabel suddenly, over her shoulder.
The hit was so hard, and came from so unexpected a quarter,
that Belle winced, and Chandy rode forward on purpose to tap
Chris on the arm, and say-
"'A hit! a very palpable' hit.' Expound, Chris, and accept my
congratulations. Positively you made the 'Brandon blush; a feat
I despaired of."
" I 'hav'nt half paid her off yet," exp1qined Chris in a low aside;
"but I can't tell you the story now; too long."
"I'll bide my hour, then. In the meantime I must review my
veterans ;" and whirling about he galloped up- and down past the
couples, with his.hand in his breast, a la Emperor, the Uncle of
the Nephew, trying hard to manage a difficult frown which should
impart the necessary dignity to his fun-lighted face. Everybody
greeted him with jokes and laughter,-but it is so easy to laugh
when one is young.
A fork in the.road' brought them in view of a steep hill, from
which their course led them aside. They had not time to turn'
their horses, however, before they espied an odd vehicle tearing
at break-neck speed down the rough road. It was a little dog-
cart, drawn by two' mouse-colored donkeys. While they were all,
looking, and before they had time to exclaim, the little machine
struck a big stone, and spilled out its human contents, and the
steeds rattled and clattered frantically towards them, throwing up
their heels in donkey hilarity.
That's Pauline's team," exlaimed Sabrina, wheeling her horse
to ride upto the rescue. Sam dismounted and caught the antic
animals, who stopped short and uttered an ecstatic hee-haw, and
then winked unremittingly on their audience, with one ear set.
back and the other pointed up the hill at the two children, ,who had
picked themselves up and were shouting and laughing down the
steep way, brushing their garments as they approached.

" Well, young ones! I call that ground and lofty tumbling,"
said Chandy.
"I think we did it splendid," spoke up Pauline. "Dick stood
on his lead and summersetted over, and that's what you can't do.
He's burst six buttons off his jacket, he, he, he ! And I, 'say,
Dick, you've torn your pantaloons," (this last a confidence behind
her hand.)
".Look at your -own things, if it comes to that, Miss," replied
Dick, very red, holding up her tattered skirt to view. "'.If you'd
a let me drive as you ought to, we would'nt have tipped over.
Girls don't know nothing about driving. I'm going home now."
" No more girls don't, Dick. You shall drive the rest of the
way," replied Pauline, smoothing him down with true feminine
"tact. "'Come on, up hill, and let's see if .our, cart is broke.
We'll keep behind them now, -and hear all the fun."
"I should like to inquire whither you are bound, Miss Brad-
shaw," asked Sabrina, "if I might be permitted such audacity."
" We are going.up to Craigenfells to supper," said Pauline
boldly.
" Who invited you, pray?"
"I invited Dick, and he invited me; did'nt we, Dick ?"
"Why Pauline ! go home this instant. You must not think
of such a thing," said Sabrina, half amused and half angry.
"I don't think much about any of you except 'Chris ; we are
going because she is. She looks so pretty, much prettier than
any girl here ; don't she, Dick ?"
Dick assented, highly tickled with Pauline's smartness, and ap-
petizing with boy relish the good things he foresaw  Deborah
would be sure to bestow upon them, for they were .no strangers
in Uncle Alec's mansion.
Otho, greatly amused, took off his hat and bowed low. "For-
give my inadvertence, Miss Pauline. I assure you it was only
inadvertance, and accept my warmest thanks. . Your idea isin-
spiration. It needed but you and Dick to make our number
complete. Mr. Slaughton is, politely waiting to assist you to

I

WIDOW, GOLDSMITH'S- ' DAU-GIITTR.,        e 55


W~r~1V GLD~3U~f'~S'I~AGJITR~.WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGIUTFR.37

your chariot, little Princess, which he prenotinces after inspection
to be safe and unharmed."'
"If I only could have brought Gracie," i-emarked Pauline, with
perfect aplomb; "but Dick would'nt let her sit in his lap.". Take
the -reins, Dick. Ride on, big folks, we are going to follow'after
you awhile,=but you must whip up, because Beauty and Daisy
are awful fast fellows; arent they, Dick ?"
This unexpected addition to the party-increased the merriment,
and the chattering couples rode on past the Hogsback, making a
detour of four or five miles, which carried them through a Joiely
road;where;the anemones were blooming on either side of the
sheltered path overarched with tall elms, and- musical with wild
brooklets;; and out ;thence into broad grassy meadows, where
Robert o' Lincoln was telling his name, whirling and sweeping in
rapturous enjoyment of the melodious utterance, and fully con-
scious, (as what handsome husband is not,) of the admiration he
excited in the heart of his faithful wife who was keeping house
among the larches.
C'hemin faisant, they came upon some cows peacefully feeding
knee-deep among the buttercups, who glanced at them with their
Juno eyes, and sent them a waft of their sweet breath, as they
trotted past.. The noise and rout were nothing at all to them,
and they dropped their noses again into th luscious food, obliv-
ions and serene.
Now the cow ponies saw opportunity to distinguish themselves,
and true to their old training, Dulcet's mount took the bits in his
teeth and scoured away, tossing wildly his shaggy mane, intend-
ing to head off the herd and worry them in somewhere, though
where he had decided -upon locating them did not yet appear.
Poor Dulcet went bobbing up and down, now here, now there,
like an eggshell on a water-jet; now off, now on, now  one
side, now the other ; cows ahead, making good time, pony lying
out to his work, running prime, arid 'all in"such a mix-up that you
couldn't have told whether Dulcet was riding a cow and driving
a pony, or hanging on to 'a pony and:chasing a cow. The cock's
feathers glanced here and glittered there, and -the pink ribbons

fluttered like flags of danger. She "abandoned the reins ,aud lung
desperately to the saddle bow, too much frightened even ,to scream,
and after a race which beat Cowper's Gilpin all hollow, the turn-
ing saddle deposited her safely and plumply among the. tall grass
unhurt,- but somewlpt disheveled and awfully scared.
"=Jerusalem  crickets !"- ejaculated the captain; " there: goes
Pug with that female schoolma'am," and spurring after her in hot
haste, he took his turn in heading off, entreating, exhorting, ce-
manding Pug to "whoa" in every inflection of which the Poten-
tial mood is capable, and 'got up with his last gyration just in
time to throw himself very neatly at Miss' Dulcet's feet, inquiring
eagerly if she was hurt, as he cleared her in a flying leap.
" I think not," she replied, gasping and swallowing, and clutch-
ing the long grass. She raised her eyes to his face, and seeing the
real anxiety there, she secretly exulted, and prepared to faint
gracefully as soon as he should raise her up. "I -don't think i've
broken any bones, captain," (she accepted his proffered hand;)
" but oh dear, Captain Slocum, what an' escape I've had. I'm
dreadfully overcome," and she dropped her head upon his breast,
-sobbing and panting.
" Jerusalem crickets ! oh, bless tny soul! don't now," exclaimed
the captain, wriggling about and rolling his eyes from side to side
in ludicrous perplexity. " Oh my, do come to, please, can't you ?
there's a dear."
"Such an escape, captain!" murmured Dulcet. " I canehardly
bring myself to contemplate it. Let me be thankful!"
"Yes, so do," said the captain; " that's right"' Then he
looked at her, and was fired by sudden emotion and the cpwven-
ient proximity of the female head. A new situation for, the;cap-
tain, but he rose equal to the occasion, and after ,glancing about
to make sure that no one of the party could see, he imprinted a
fervent kiss upon the virgin cheek, and straightened up with, a
jerk and grinned,.well pleased with his performance.
"There now, Miss Pettibone ! I've done it. Blame the cow
pony ! No, I don't mean that,.of course. Y u uaust let ,ie look
after you now. What I've kissed I'll take, and you see.if I"dpn't

API f3    G  L 1    'i'1 '. b.AU  E TER.


do it up brown. Let not man put asunder, and so forth. You
sense me, I expect?"
"I believe I do," replied Dulcet sweetly, blessing the steed, who
was still tearing about the meadow, keeping the innocent bovines
at top speed.
"Set down on that there flat stun, Miss Pettibone, and I'll soon
catch them blasted critters. I knew they'd bear watching,-but I'
did'nt suppose they'd be playing off any of their old chapparel
tricks up here amongst the Yankees. - You sure you aint hurt no
where, ma'am?"
" Quite sure, captain," replied Miss Dulcet, expressively. "I'm
doing nicely, thank you."
Jan Vedder came across the meadow and helped the captain,
who soon secured the treacherous beasts, and Uulcet mounted
her's with a resolution not to make a fuss, which was truly heroic,-
and once more they set forward.
These episodes of the donkeys and the cow ponies had so' dis-
turbed the epic, that the horses got restive, and Sabrina's little
sorrelmare, in crossing a clattering -old bridge, dashed forward
impatient of curbing. Knowing her well, her mistress gave her
her head, and sending Otho and Chris gay good evening as she
passed,' she cantered easily on, but not long alone, for Sam
Slaughton soon joined her. In the general mix-up, Captain Slo-
cum took opportunity to ride up to Miss Brandon, whom he con-
sidered very handsome, and had long admired afar off, wishing a
little longer to use his butterfly'wings before subsiding into a use-
ful family beast.
"Confound this"old plug !" said Chandos, trying to pull on his
horse and come up 'with Sabrina. But Miss Bradshaw's mare
was selected by-Peter pere, who was as great in horse-flesh as-in
farming, and she had her pedigree framed, and cost a pile of
money. Poor Chandy's -mount was only a livery nag, showy to
look at, but puffing with chest-founder, and without any go in
him, and he could'nt do it.
"You see," called 'out Captaig. Slocum, with a great "haw,
haw,"- "you see, Goldsmith, your hoes keeps his feet too long on

3 58

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S  DAUGHTER.:

i                   '

the ground, and when a hoss does that he can't ever travel fast
--that's what the matter is."
' Chandy gave up his attempt with an impatient anathema, and
wheeled about and rode down abreast of Belle, who looked tri-
umphant.
" Captain Slocum, I've dropped my whip," called out Miss Dul-
cet. She.had no idea of abdicating so soon, and thus recalled
]dim to his allegiance.
"Jerusalem crickets ! what a female schoolma'am that is,"
grumbled the captain, as he dropped behind, with the glamour
of Belle's charms over him to that extent that he half changed
his mind about Dulcet.
"Believing, we rejoice to see that curse remove," said Belle to
Chandy. He turned and gazed at her in surprise, right into her
steel blue eyes, which never quailed for an instant, and then he
burst into a loud laugh. Though he felt how unfeminine it was,
and would have been disgusted with Chris if she had said it, this
girl looked so wickedly handsome, and her merriment rang out
so careless and clear, that he stopped, fascinated, to hear what she
would say next. Therefore she counted that her venture had
netted her a paying profit, and she was bewitchingly simple and
brilliant by tnrns, keeping watch out of her artless -eyes for the
effect.
Now there was one pretty honest young face in the cortege
'which did not look at all happy, but on the contrary, quite. cast
down and disconsolate. Bertha Groenveldt had -fallen to the
share of Jan Vedder, that arrant scapegrace, who had no proper
respect for grey beards and college rules, and she felt especially
ill-used. Chandy had offered himself as her escort when the ex
cursion was planned, and had spoken of it as a -matter of course
ever since, and now he had not only ridden off by Sabrina's side,
but paused by Belle afterwards, forgetful of her existence.
Jan was an admirable horseman, his faults arising from his com-
panionable termper, though 'tis a pity to have to say that they
were fast sinking into vices, as his sunken cheeks and hollow eyes
witnessed against him. He -was a favorite among the girls, as

359

WIDOW GOLDSMITIOW  ODsm1'S DAJQIITER.


360         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DALTGHITEl.

such.scapegraces; sometimes are, and had a brotherly, confidential,
innocent way, which easily secured confidence.  Miss Bertha
scarcely looked at him. Forgetful of her proper training, her
politeness failed her, and she felt cross at. his attempts to be
agreeable, which thus fell flat and unappreciated. Poor Jan, who
knew better than any one else how far he had gone astray, and
who had times of bitter self-upbraiding and repentance, watched
her more in sorrow thatrin anger.
Bertha's eyes were fixed upon the showy pair in front.of them.
Much as she admired Sabrina's elegance, and dearly as she loved
her, it was hard to witness Chandy's devotion, careless and lordly,
and hear their voices in pleasant, friendly chat; but Belle Bran-
don she could not like, and her little heart sank within her when
Ase was preferred, and she began to say to herself how very
pleasant-it would be to go home and be quiet, with her dear papa
who loved her so very fondly-better, ever so much better,,than
stopping here, a stranger and outsider among these young people,
who were all old friends together, and would not miss her. This
excursion, which she had been lying awake to think about,.was a
bore and a weariness, and she wished it well\ over.
But Chandy had not forgotten her. He was making the most
of his party, of pleasure, after his long confinement within doors- -
sipping all the sweets. Finding himself conveniently near, to
Sabrina, with his usual insouicence he took a fancy to tarry by
her side; but Bertha also greatly satisfied my lord-"with her-lady-
like quiet andserene goodness, embellished by graceful cultiva-
tion ;-and after Sabrina had cantered away, and Belle's dimples
began to .be an old story, he turned 'ground to look for her, and
seeing how downcast and absent her face was, though he was no
vainer than other handsome boys, he could not help guessing the
cause; and the .interrupted Miss Brandon in one of her dazzling
effects, thus abbreviating her triumph:
"Excuse me a moment ; I must ride back a little." He bowed,
and turning his horse, he trotted down and ordered Jan to take
the vacated place, which he was quite willing to do, and ChaAdy
wheeled in by Bertha's side.

" I'vebeen thinking of you," said he ; (it was not necessary to
say how recent. the thought was,) "but you see Pete and I are, a
kind of field-marshals without any batons, and we have-to make
ourselves exceedingly numerous in order to discharge our duties
with fidelity; but I've got where I like to be at last, and' you'll
let me stay, won't you ? and we will have a nice little joke-to-
gether."
Bertha's face did not clear immediately, but she liked Chandy
so much that it was not a hard task for him to get forgiven.
" How good those brakes'smell! Isn't thisgay ? it makes one
wish he was a boy again, 'in the cot where I was, born,' and :the
rest of it, doesn't it?  I say, Bertha, have they got any} good
horses up at Rosenbloom ?"
"I'm afraid not any very showy ones; there's the family span,
and the cart horses, and old Blunderbore, and the colts and the
riding-master brings half a dozen every spring, but he takes them
away again when the lessons are over."
" That may do very well for Mr. Riding-master's pupils,:but
they won't serve us. I I shall make mother get me a nag, because
'I intend to take you out driving; I'll have two and a curricule;
that'll be hunky-dory."
"Oh what lovely dog-roses !" exclaimed Bertha, with a clear
smile. r She began to discover beauties in the landscape, which
had been a blank sere and drear when unlucky Jan invited her
attention thereto. "I shall beg dear Chris to come out and bot-
anize."
"So we.will.; they are gay, that's a fact.
In emerald tufts, flowers purple, blue and white,
Like sapphire, pearl, and rich embroidery;
Ayd trusty glow-worms shall our lanterns be,
To guide our quest around about the tree.'
I'll come along ; I'm great on botany; and I'll carry the cuincu-
lum, the tin-arrangement. I've very nearly got my allowance of
legs again."
When Sabrina cantered forward, like a damsel errantin searett
of adventures, Zephyr was ninh put out, 'and objected to beIng
.     1

WIDOW,,. GOLDSMITB'S -DAU HTJRr      361,


G2.        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S. DAUGHTER.

left, behind, and testified his feelings by making little jumps and.
sideway prancings, andshaking his shapely head, and Chris being
taken unawares, and in the midst of an absorbing conversation,
had much trouble to keep. her seat. Otho's first impulse was:to
grasp- her rein, but obeying some.secret resolve, he withheld- his
touch and watched her closely, ready to offer assistanceif 'needed.
But with voice and hand she soon brought gay Zephyr to consent
that she might be; mistress, and. 'he subsided, but, with, much,
champing of the. bitt, arching of his glossy neck, and tossing.off'
flecks of. foam, as if' he knew his, power, and. disdained to use it
unchivalrously against, such a slight, pretty young creature, who
gave himn her.confidence, and whose command was but a tuneful
request.
Chris's heart., began. to pit-pat its steady. time-beats.again, in-
stead;of knocking at her breast like an affrighted prisoner. But
alas ! the first wild jump had loosened the treacherous hair-pins,
and disarranged Miss Brandon's: slightly constructed' coiffure, so
that it'fell to one -side, and looked-each instant more uncertain, dis-
ordered, and frowzy. Belle, who had all the while been watching
for. such a consummation, now left Jan Vedder, and: rode fo -
ward, as she said, to assist "dear Chris, who was in trouble,".
pointing at. her with the. handle of her whip, and smiling comr
passionately..
"Poor child, she never is. presentable, unless some of. us look
after. her;j it is an act of.charity and mercy, and Dr. Groenveldt
is so afraid of being ridiculous."
This, though addressed.. to Jan, was said in that distinct under-
tone which is more dauible than ordinary conversation, particu-
larly when the sense is quickened by hearing ones own name.
Mr. Otho's frowns gathered blackness, and some very disagreea-
ble reflections obtruded themselves.
Miss Brandon-checked herhorse with a quick, graceful motion
chose. byChris's side, and said in her clepr, childish, voice, while
she leaned over and pretended to arrange the tangling mass,
iughing.prettilyat her file  rts
"hair-dressing on .horse-bekgreqires practice, like.prestidig

WIDOWW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
itation:. What a pity that, this- Sappho knot, which' I'heard such
sweet'things about, and which was wrought among so many smiles
and sighs, is getting disheveled. It is a delicate thing to manage,
Mr. Groenveldt ; if I might advise, I would say, ask something
simpler next time. Girls who are all mind, like our dear 61d
Chris, never ought to attempt that style. They should be content,
to leave such va cities to us poor wicked little wretches, whose
souls are just' equal to the trouble of looking our 'prettiest, and'
who dote upon dress and sicean trifles."
Under this double stab poor. Chris sat dumb; her large'eyes
openedin unbounded astonishment upon the unblushing beauty,
who tossed off her blonde curls, and showed her' sharp white
teeth, in the-most careless, artless laugh imaginable.
Otho glanced from one to the other in displeased surprise. So
his Sappho had made his request the subject of a confidence.with
this blue-eyed flirt. Besides: being careless she was 'indiscreet.
Yet he could scarcely believe it:; she was always so very self-con-
tamed, so extremely reticent. His mother's words clouded his
face with gloom: "You would 'not like to present your wife to
your frien is with her hair dressed. as if the mocked sport of a
whirlwind," and poor Chris did .look very like that just dow-very
indeed; and yet she was charming, with her blazing eyes, and
crimson cheeks, albeit her attitude was hostile, and her air stormy
and threatening. One thing he, man-like; decided;; she deserved
to be punished. He had a right to be offended, \and the more he
noted. how proud and rebellious she.looked, the more he desired
to bring her down by a little wholesome discipline: Therefore
he leaned. across her, and not very politely began' atconversation
with Miss Brandon, laboriously flattering and particular. She
nimbly met him half way, with all her graces in full action-
though she saw through. his motive as plainly as if he had-writ-
ton it, onhis forehead, and fully' appreciated the false ring of the
coin he offered her. If Chris was teazed and annoyed she was
satisfied, Two or three times she jestingly address'ed hor,abut
the offended girl disdained to:reply, even by.a hok, and rode' on
gazing straight between her horse's ears, her anger bubbling and


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW- GOLDSMITH'S, DAUGHTER..

boiling, and waxing hotter. I cannotundertake to affirm that
Miss Brandon would have been glad to see Chris pitched over
Zephyr's head, and picked up bruised and. bleeding ; but I feel
safe in saying that she would have welcomed with secret delight
a good- awkward tumble, upon some harmless, soft mud, which
should make her exquisitely ridiculous, and no bones broken; a
theme for a.good fling at her afterwards, and which would thor-
oughly spoil her day, and make her wish she had never been
born. . She resented Chris's utter indifference to her blandish-
ments, her superior style, and society talk ; and she chafed under
her quiet handling of themes, whose alphabet she had not learned.-
Otho's unobtrusive, grave devotion, so patent' to everybody but
the unconscious object, was gall and wormwood to dear Belle, the
innocent child. It is not too much to say, she hated the two de-
voutly..-
Chandos, cantering up in his official capacity of batonless field-
marshal, was just in time to hear her say, writhing under Chris's
lofty, scornful looks:                 ~-
"Dearest beauty, on the one thousand and oneth page of the-
sixteenth book of etiquette, which I commend to your careful
perusal, you will find this rule clearly laid down: 'Never stare
your friends out of countenance.' Pray what is it in poor little
me which makes you opan your eyes so wide at the same time,
Vous ne paraisser pas faire attention d ce que je vous dis."
"I was thinking," replied Chris, slowly, "how very like you
are to-a picture I.know. If you had sat for the character it could
not have been more perfect."-
"Oh, thank you, dear; you quite take me by surprise. I had
no idea you could bend your tongue supple enough to pay coin-
pliments."
"Ah cela depends!1" broke in Chandy, who saw that Chris was
dreadfully aggravated. " You remind me of an old story'; shall I
tell it you?"
"I am quite sure that Mr. Goldsmith will embellish an old tale.
in the new telling,". replied Belle, uneasily, for Chandy- looked
dangerous.

Aw, thus encouraged," said that young gentleman, caressing
an imaginary moustache, -"well then, 'lend me your ears.' A
man said to his friend, ' Come home with me, Tom, and dine; I
must show you my wife ; she's as handsome as a picture.' Tom
accepted the invitation, and after dinner was finished, and the two
sat over their wine, the husband said, rubbing his hands:
' Well Tom,-isn't she as handsome as a picture ?'
'Oh yes, certainly, but-
'But what ?'
' Why you see, Dan, there's a deuced sight of odds in pictures.'
Au revoir, Miss Brandon; duty calls me from your charming
smiles, in whose moonlight I could bathe my soul forever !" and
lifting his cap, he wheeled about and galloped back to Bertha,
who had been all the while watching him, and thinking about
him, 'and wondering what he was saying to Belle Brandon, and
when he would come back to her again.
As for the blonde, she was very angry ; decidedly she was not
getting the best of the Goldsmiths in words to-day ; and the quiet
smile with -which Otho listened to Chandy's nonsense galled her,
She longed to punish somebody, and Chris, who could not help
looking -at her, any more than a bird can help watching a snake,
felt nervous and chilly under the Geraldine glances she shot at
her..- In adjusting her cuff, Belle managed to. treat Zephyr to a
smart little cut with her whip, which so astonished him, coming
as it appeared from.his gentle mistress, for whom he was looking
his prettiest, that he gave a sudden bound, and would have un-
seated her had she not been very firm in the saddle. Stung by
the idea that she had withdrawn confidence, he took -the bitts in
his teeth, and began to prance sideways, and canter with the
wrong ,foot, and otherwise comport himself like a horse cut
loose from chivalric responsibility.
Engrossed as Mr. Groenveldt was with Miss Brandon's many
graces, he stopped in the middle of an elaborate sentence when
Zephyr started, and he'watched Chris with compressed lips and
anxious frown during his fearful- evolutions, and his face was
many shades paler than usual when the enterprising creature

865,

364


Wf~'W  OLSXTI?8'DUGTE~WIDO~W GOLDS tTH}' DAITGHTER.                         -36'1

tried the experiment'of making. a biped 'of .himself by standing
on his hind legs and pawing the empty air with his. fore feet-; and;
he drew a long breath when Chris showedthat she was fully mis-,
tress of the situation, and brought Zephyr back to his proprieties,
and sat firm and collected, without any fear in her still-determined
face.
" Shall I make myself 'responsible for Zephyr's future:good
behavior by riding up and taking your leading-string, Miss, Gold-
smith ?"
Otho felt a curious desire to provoke her as soon as the danger
was over.
"No;" said she ; "Zephyr would resent such interference as
much as ."
"He is rather restless yet, though,; I am afraid you will come
to grief. You had better be modest and permit yourself 'to be
guided," said Belle, her eyes full of wicked light. "Now don't
rashly turn your back 'on your friends;. we shall take it bitterly-
to =heart if you under-value us to that extent."
'If Zephyr despises double-dealing and trickery half as much
as I do, he will be glad to leave you; you see he -says sQwas
plainly as he can.; we have been already too long in the way of
your' very interesting, spirited conversation." . Her, eyes well
opened, and her lips arched,:she met Mr. Otho's weighing up look
full and fearlessly, and touching her cap with her whip in a mock
salute, she said: " Timon' -will - be Timon's friend hereafter;-
Zephyr and-I are sufficient to each other."
Chris would not have believed that morning that she could
have felt such passionate anger as now ' boiled within her. No
feeling but reverence for her best friend had ever found place in
her soul 'before;.even impatience:would have seemed like pre-
sumption. She fully believed that:Belle had intentionally brought
her into disgrace-she was gloating over it now. But Belle's
'achievements faded into the dim distance when compared with
Otho's {looks and words. She was misunderstood, undervalued,
and shamefully treated. He could believe that she could make
his 'sacred:wishes the theme-of conversation with Belle Brandon,

of all others! could doubt 'her truth; suspect heirof indiscretion.
Indignation possessed her soul, and she dashed a couple of tears
from 'her eyes, as she rode forward alone"; and Belle'slight, childish
laugh rung out sweet and tuneful on the air.
There had, not been a word said among the party during Chris-
tabel's conflict ; but now a congratulatory murmur greeted her 'vic-
torious horsemanship, 'and they all supposed she was carrying out
a frolic and those who knew her best :smiled admiringly at' her
unwonted spirits.
Singularly enough, Mr. Groetveldt, in spite of her hard words
and high looks, made up his mind that he would forgive her, and
graciously receive her back into fvor, after a suitable time; and
h6 watched her erect, lithe, slender figure, swaying in supple
abandon to 'her steed's motion, with secret exultation; and a grave
smile lighted his 'efes. U e was not sorry he had brought her out
in a new phase so very becoming, in spite of her dishevelment.
As soon as Jan Vedder saw her cantering on so gaily, easily
passing Sam Slaughton and  Sabrina, who got no reply to their
Merry challenge, he felt . 'desire to 'experiment 'pon Chandy's
theory of 'circulation, and put up his horse to join her'; and he
also flew past 'Sabrina, who had much trouble 'to -keep her nare
from joining in the mad gallop.
Chris had never spoken to Jan till this afternoon, and any other
time she would have 'kept silence in his 'company. - Now she
greeted him with a gay laugh, and 'exerted herself to make talk;
and after 'a 'quarter of a 'mile 'or so of fast riding, they reined in
their horses; 'and so interested were they in theii' conversation.
(Jan had hit upon the' 6tpic which was very 'nearly a 'nania with
Chris, foreign travel and Dutch painting-,) thatithey allowed Sabri-
na and'Sam to canter pasithem,'and 'thus were brought-onde more
near'to Belle and Otho, and 'either Chris' senses were  quickened
by her passion, 'or Belle miscalculated her distance, for she dim
tinctly heard her say:
SYatu 'hi-e'admiring my gauntlets, I see Mr. Groenveldt. Yes,
dear Cis Wvduld press me to wear them.' I'hesitated, I assure
you, when she told me they; were a- gift, and tried hard to be vir-

-ft

' DA U 1/! RTE R .

.


art        WIDOW 'GOLDSMIT'S -DAUGHTER.

taons and self-denying, and pointed out the impropriety of such a
transfer, but my-moral lecture was lost, my:delicate scruples ig-
nored, and I had to give in. They are:perfect loves. The mron-
ogram is so delicately beautiful." She extended her hand. "Ah!
Mr. Groenveldt ,I am too outspoken. I can never keep my faults
in the background. I see you disapprove of me. Don't lay up
nfiy folly against 'me. I'm' only-a child after all."
lie bowed over the little fingers; extended towards him, which
he could do no less than to take into his own, and afterwards di-
rected an odd glance at the gashing blue eyes swimming in tears,
andsomehow he was reminded of the fairy changeling, who so wrung
poor Alice Leremont's motherly heart.-
"Chris is a lucky girl, Mr. Groenveldt, not like your sister
Bertha, of course, none of us . an hope for such perfection, but
really, 'she is, a dear good creature, with all her gaucharie,
which is trying 'a little to us girls at times, but we all study to
niake the best of her. :She won't ever be any different to .what
she  is, but-such anintellectas she has, such rare powers, excuse
everything. °Ipity exquisite Chandy sometimes. (laughing.) I have
seen him writhe when he looked at her. I imagine she will fall
heir to a blessing-to-day, when he takes in the full sense of her
appearance."
'-When Belle commenced her speech, Christabel's first impulse
was to turn on her, and if she had given way, and permitted one
word to pass her lips ; if she had even looked at her, there is
no 'saying where her passion might have carried her, but with a
mighty effort, 'she: kept her eyes straight before her, and Jan's
dykes and.pollards, and Vandykes mixed into, a confused jumble
in her ears.The final allusion to Chandy suffused, her eyes with
bitter tears: They were nearing Craigenfells now, and she could
hardly keep herself from dashing' away at a mad, pace, and hid-
ing from them all in the' deep sheltering wood, which rose leafy
and inviting on her right hand.
"'Of course after such a display of horsemanship .s we have
witnessed today, it would, be superfluous to ask you if you can

WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.           '369
leap fences," said Jan, pointing to a high gate before them. - "The
question would be, could you choose thus to distinguish yourself."
"Yes I could," answered Chris, excitedly. " I should like to
do anything that would nearly kill me, and frighten everybody to
death. Come bring up your horse, and start fair, and see who
will be first over."
He opened his eyes in astonishment. "Are you in earnest Miss
Goldsmith ?"
" Of course," said she, gathering up her reins, " don't be slow;
give, the word, one, two, three and away. I only wish it was ten-
barred instead of five."
Taken aback, by no means sure of his steed, Jan gallantly
brought him abreast of Zephyr, and they made ready to start.
" Christabel! be careful," called out, Belle in a tone of deep
anxiety. ."You will be thrown ! Gracious Heaven, she can't be
so wild as to attempt such an outlandish performance, queer as
she is. Do speak to her, Mr. Groenveldt."
" I do not see occasion," answered Otho coldly ; his lips were
compressed and his eyes full of anxiety in spite of his indifferent
tone.
" Hold on ! old fellow," screamed Jan, " we will leap that little
barrier, leave it alone."
Thomas stopped astonished at this address, and the rollicking
tone of it, and when he saw that it was Chris and Zephyr, and
that the rider looked determined and fearless, her eyes fixed
on the gate, and flashing like stars, and her head proudly curbed,
and Zephyr's red nostrils were dilated, and his eagle glance clear
ahd steady, he smiled .confidently upon them, and called out as
they flew past:
" Wrists level with the elbows, shoulders square, that's right,
over you go, whoop and away."
Splendidly the beautiful animal rose to the, leap, and he and
his light rider went over like a breeze.
"Sure and handsome, both of them," said old Thomas, rubbing
his hands, " sure and handsome."  Jan followed with a shout and
hallo, as if he had been leading the hunt.


.=0         WIDOW GOLDSaITR a DArUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       .  371

"I don't mind being beaten by you, Miss Goldsmith. I never
saw a lady manage her horse so well,", he tossed off his cap and
whirled it around his head, as he trotted back and forth admiring
her, a little boldly perhaps, but that Chris had brought on herself,
and was too pre-occupied to notice. "I should like to try that
once more, with Juniper under me, Miss Goldsmith. This fellow
is only a colt, and half trained at best. I should not let you beat
me again, though I'd bet on you against the field."
Chris felt that she had no right to answer this speech, as it
deserved, and she silently reined in Zephyr, and they walked
slowly up the avenue..
The rest of the party came up in twos and threes, through the
open. gate; chatting and laughing and wondering.
"She's a precious fairy, sir," said old Thomas to-Otho, "a win-
some, lovely, little lady, and she sits Zephyr- like a bird, and he
knows it"
Otho leaned over his saddle bow, and said something in a low
tone, which even Belle could not catch, and Thomas glancing up at
him in surprise, touched his cap and walked off towards the stablest
and proud Otho looked prouder than ever, and though Belle stud-
ied his face, she could make nothing of it. The girls all gathered
around Chris upon the long piazza, and congratulated her upon
her achievement.
"Who taught you to ride ?" asked Zoe. "I declare you make
me dizzy, you come out in so many new unexpected ways; but
after the postillion I ought not to be startled by anything. Say,
you queer girl, who taught you riding and leaping. Is it inspira-
tion or education ? and you are up in boxing and boating and
archery as well I suppose."
"You must question Thomas, he knows all my accomplish-
ments, but there's one, which Miss Brandon' excels in, which I
have not acquired yet. She's adept beyond anything you and I
ever dreamed of, in shooting with the long bow." Chris passed
on to the great entrance before' Belle could collect her wits for a
retort, brushing Otho with her trailing garments, but not giving

him a look, and bowed carelessly to Madame Groenveldt, who
stood there ready to receive, as hostess.
She had seen the race, and the leap, and disapproved, and took
care to make it apparent that she did, and she fixed her eyes sig-
nificantly upon Chris' disheveled locks, hanging about her ears in
hopeless disorder. But the young girl threw back her look with
wilful daring, and pulling off her hat, she took up her stray tresses
in her gloved hands, showing them with a laugh to Sam Slaugh-.
ton and Mr. Hauxhurst, who paid her many compliments upon
her exploit.
"L ook," said she, "so much for wild riding, and friendly fin-
gers," bowing pointedly to Belle. Their eyes followed her's, and
though they did not understand the hit, they laughed at the deep
curtsey which Belle returned with bland politeness.  So our
naughty Chris was not so much wilted as she ought to have lieen
by madame's cold reception. On the contrary, she was to-day what
she rarely appeared to the many, brilliant, gay, careless, captivat-
ing ; her eyes glittered with strange light, and her little teeth
gleamed like pearls, between her scarlet lips, parted in careless
laughter. Chandos listened in astonished admiration to her rip-
pling merriment, and constant stream of talk to everybody. 'He
gazed at her, rubbing his hands in glee.
"I say, Otho, she's glorious to-day. There is'nt one here can
hold a candle to her. She is doing me credit.- I've taken the
right course you see. I've encouraged and brought her out, and
she shines, by Jove. Look at her!, What a carriage ! Straight
as an arrow. What a head ! Proud as Lucifer. Looks like me,
does'nt she? astonishing .likeness, is'nt it?  Speak up 'man," find-
ing that Otho made no answer.
" Miss Goldsmith  seems in spirits to-day, I think, to judge by
her manner," he answered without 'any smiles, and he turned away
to address his mother.
Chandos, greatly disgusted at his want of enthusiasm, joined
the girls who clustered about aa beautiful Pomeranian, who was
frolicing and frisking and dashing over the lawn as if vain of his
snowy robe.


$72        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

" I wish I was a dog," said Chandy, twirling his thumbs, and
sighingike a bellows.°
"Oh don't despair, Chandy," spoke up Zoe, pulling her hand.
kerchief out of Poin's mouth. "It is p as well to be a puppy.
You'll grow."
All the girls laughed, and Chandos counted on his fingers.
" One, two, three more, Miss Walsingham, there's a dreadful
account pilingup for you, better make your peace in time," and
he finished looking on the ground in admiring soliloquy. "True
she was brown, but naught the brown her beauty marred."
Zoe made a dash at his ears, which he warded off in preten-
ded terror.
"Let her not hurt me! I was ne'er curst,
I have no gift at all in shrewishness,
Oh, when she is angry, she is keen and shrewd,
She was a vixen when she went to school,
And though she be but little, she is fierce."
" You've your change for several there, I think, Zoe," said Sa-
brina, laughing.  "You had better clear off scores and start
again."-
"Please drop the topic, friends," said Zoe, " Chandy by him-
self, I can match well enough, but when he brings in his friend
Bill Shakes, I retire."
" Ale, gentlemen 1" asked Thomas, hospitaly, bringing along a
great -pitcher full.
" Not any for me," said Chandos. "I never could abide malt
liquor, since I found out that they soak their old gunny bags in
it."
" Gunny bags !" exclaimed Zoe interrogatively.
" I'll bet a hat you are in deep water now, Miss Walsingham,"
said Chandy. " But I'm kind. I'll enlighten your ignorance ;
they are long bags that the soldiers carry their guns in, and they
call them guneys, for. pet, just as Peter calls you Zoey."
"He never does call me Zoey," pouted she.
"For shame, Chandos !" said Chris.  " I think that is not
polite."

" Coine dictionary, you shall tell us all about it," insinuated
Belle, crossing her hands over Chris arm. "You are such a con-
venience to have about; excuse the slang."
"Chris shook her off," and shut her lips, vouchsafing no reply.
" Don't mind them, dear," said Dulcet in a low voice. "Erudite
people are subject to such attacks. I often suffer from them my-
self."
" Oh, how nice."  Belle clapped her hands, "there's one thing
that dictionary don't know."
Chris was childish enough to be piqued into airing her knowl-
edge.
"A plant grows on the Coramandel coast, called. Goni, and
gunny is a corruption of the name. Everybody in India almost,
spins or weaves it into ropes and bags, mats, carpets, paper, etc.,
and it is a source of immense profit. The old bags in which sugar
is brought over, are sold' to the beer makers, who boil them to
sweeten their liquor, and they sell the bags afterwards, nothing
the worse for the cleansing."
" Oh what a girl you are, Chris," said Zoe, impulsively. "You
shame us all."
" We must take her about with us, everywhere."  Belle was
dreadfully spiteful, to think she had afforded her an opportunity
to shine, " where  did you learn all that funny stuff."
"Just where you might, if you had head enough," replied Chris
shortly, " in the newspapers."
"Dis way young ladies, follow me if you please," said Tonny,
making a cartwheel of himself on the gravel walk. " I am sent
to distort you to your departments."
"You must walk then, Tonny," said Sabrina, "we can't follow
in that pace." -Whereupon Tonny did the elephant-walking on
his feet and the palms of his hands, keeping his knee joints as
stiff as iron.
The cool lofty chambers looked airy and inviting, and the girls
flew about with their habits tucked up, and chattered and cooed,
and threw away a wealth of pretty looks, which would have been

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUG ITER.     3-73


374         WIDOW GOLDS'!ITfl'S DAUGHTER.

capital enough to trade on for -a wholeseason at Newport, and
they bathed their faces and settled their toilets.
" Chris, thou steeple chaser, let -me fix your hair for you," said,
Zoe, when she was all ready to go down, dancing mazourka up to
her friend in the deep window,, where she stood apart, gazing,
down the long avenue, which she had last seen bare, and tossed
in the March wind, now gay with whispering leaves and bathed
in warm sunshine.
" No, thank you," she replied, coming out of her memories and
glancing at Belle Brandon, " I've had plenty of assistance to-day,
already. After you have all beautified, and left the mirror
to solitude, and to me, I will soon do the needful for my-
self."
" Be sure that you don't metamorphose yourself, dear, so that
we won't know you again. We are already as much astonished
as is good for us," said Sabrina, pleasantly kissing her, which
parting Zoe intensified into an embrace, by throwing both arms;
around her.
" Come girls, don't maunder," said Belle impatiently. "It is
not worth while to stop up here all day."
" Room for the skillful archer," said Chris, bowing to. the
blonde -as she sailed away.
Left alone, she 'stood a moment gazing at her face in the mir-,
ror, and her eye caught the reflection there of a vase of pansies,
and half hidden among their leaves a slip of paper, on which was
written:
"These are for thoughts,
Pray you, love, remember."
She started and blur'     drew her breath pantingly. They
were intended for her,    4the -few words were quite alone,
nameless, she knew it as well as if she had seen the shapely
fingers arrange them and place them there. She took out slowly
all the long hair-pins, and shook the mass down about her shoul-
ders in wavy, satiny luxuriance, below her slender waist. Then
she commenced with trembling fingers to twine the heavy curls,

gazing at herself, and-going back to the sad. days of her great
bereavement, and then over her late life so full and rich. She
stood then, with the pansies in her hand, absorbed in thought,
till she heard Chandy calling her to come down directly. She
dropped the ;flowers with a start,, then took them up again, and
ended by placing them hastily among her curls, and ran dowi ,
half ashamed of her irresolution and conflicting feelings. They
were making up sets for dancing, amid much mirth at their tuck-
ed-up garments, which some of the girls had fastened at the sides
with pins, like the old Anne Boylen pictures, and others had ar-
ranged elaborately in festoons, thus displaying their well-laced
bottines, and Chris stood a few moments in the door-way, before
any one seemed to notice her.
"Can you play for dancing, Miss Williams ?" said Chandos.
"I'm afraid not, sir," said she, diffidently. "My teacher keeps
me so all the while on the chronic scales and archipeligoes, that I
forget all my pieces."
" Chronic squeals, you mean, don't you, dear," said Belle, ma-
king an odd grimace aside to Chandos.
"I said scales, I believe," replied poor Mary Ann, a faint color
dyeing her chalky cheeks. "I wish you wouldn't poke fun at me ;
I'm sure I never do at you."
"Don't you, dear? how very magnanimous of you. I assure
you, seriously, I have long been of opinion that your squeals are
getting chronic. There, don't try to get up a scene ! your lip is not
the sort to pout; that kind of thing, to be effective, needs beauty."
The merciless girl flew away with a teazing toss of her blonde
curls, and a mocking laugh intended to extinguish the foil, who
looked so put down, that even Chandos was ashamed to have
laughed,.and he took her over to Bertha, who comprehended her
role at once, and received her as a precious deposit, and helped
her to forget her snubbing.
"Let us look at these new books," said she. "These illustrated
copies are so amusing."
Mary Ann took up one and sat down in a corner. Bertha was
called off, and Mary Ann sat still turning over the pages.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGUTERe         c ' T +


_\

376

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"What are you reading, Miss Mary ?" asked Mr. Hauxhurst,
who did not dance.
(Mary Ann, consulting the title-page of her volume,)
"It is-Pi-que, a tale of the English Aristookery."
Mr. Hauxhurst stifled a kind of cough in his handkerchief; but
he had come as escort to Mary Ann, and was too trustworthy and
responsible to decline the duties of the office ; and it was a curi-
ous study to 'him how it could possibly be that, a human, mind
should originate such a number of platitudes as she .poured forth
in the half-hour of their conversation. Poor Mary Ann ! kind-
hearted girl she was, too, but so kept under, and quenched, and
snubbed. He had a curiosity to find out what idea the title of
the book she held conveyed to her mind.
" What is it about ?" asked he.
" Lords and ladies, and those sort of people ; but I don't believe
I got the name right, after all; it is Pe-cay, the new kind of
cambric for dress, you know.. I suppose Mildred had some made
up out of it: maybe it tells how they were fixed ; I mean to read
it and see."
"Pursuing knowledge under difficulties," said Mr. Hauxhurst.
Chris in her floating curls and velvet violets was so different
to the work-a-day Chris, that Otho quite forgot -the place,.and
lost the voices around him in looking at her; and he started when
Chandos tapped him on the shoulder, saying:
"You and Chris are detailed to fill up this set, old fellow."
Ne stood quite still, without offering to approach her, till she
turned her eyes upon him, wondering how he would answer. His
face was still and grave, and she fancied he was thinking about
his flowers, as perhaps he was, and as she interpreted his thoughts
through a medium of her own, she wheeled around so as to give
him a very decided cold shoulder.
"I am unworthy to wear them; I should not have gotten them
if he had known me as he knows me now. I am no longer his
.friend ; I foolishly boasted to him that - I would be sufficient to-
myself; he sees my inconsistency, and justly despises me."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

377

Thinking thus) when he did walk up to her in his usual quick,
sedate fashion, saying:
"Will you choose to dance with me, Miss Goldsmith ?" she
could hardly keep from crying, and answered, hotly:
" Chandos+ knows, or ought to know, that I- never saw a quad-
rille in my life." . And with a rebellious shake ,of the shoulders,
she dropped her eyes, and looked as stormy as Kathrina.
He returned her'no answer, and something-moved her to glance
up at him. To her astonishment, she discovered the flicker of' a
faint smile playing about his face, which only increased her anger.
She pulled the flowers from her hair, and tossed them toward
him,
"I have too many thoughts already; I don't care for-those,"
said she, as she passed out of the door, and down upon the lawn.
Otho;glanded after her in secret amusement, and quietly pick-
ing up the rejected blossoms, he-coolly put them in his vest.
Out of sight of the drawing-room window, Chris quickened
her steps, and ran down the gravel walk to the stables, and stood
awhile gazing at Zephyr in his loose box, who turned his glossy
head with a whinneying welcome.    She went up fearlessly,
and laid her hot face against him, and with her arm over his neck,
she thought how much better and truer .friends dumb animals
were than talking humans. Pretty soon she heard voices coming
in her direction, but it was only Miss Dulcet leaning upon the
Captain. They had been making a -tour of the.farm-yards, and
Miss Dulcet seemed to be elaborately explaining.
"There's' another curious -animal of the porcine tribe, called
the Tapir, a native of South America, which has a horn in its
snout. They lived long' time ago, too, because specimens have
been found of their remains as deep ,s forty feet below the sur-
face. A friend of mine, a great naturalist, discovered in the au-
rferous gravel the posterior epiphysis of a curvicaudate vertebra
of; a hoofed animal, undoubtedly the Tapir."
"I say, Dick,",said Pauline, who had been following the pair
about, and listening to their talk,-"let's you and me go to Thomas


WIDOW G OLDSM Tn1's DAU   .

and make him 'give s sa 'box of 'thoe taters, 'and 'we'll light p
the grotto, and play we are elfs."
" Taters!" said Dick, 'derisively. "You can't get any light
out of taters."
" Can't we, though ? as if 'mama don't burn one every night in
her room'; and didn'tWe have a 'hundred and fifty on-'our Christ.
mas tree."
"'Oh what silly things girls 'are, to call candles taters,":said
Dick,'hugging himself.
"You mean taper," whispered a voice in Pauline's ear. "Don't
let him flout you; keep him in order."
The sharp child did not turn her head; but she saw her mis.
fake, and took the hint instantly.
"Look-a-here, you Dick ! You listed and I'll spell it for you:
T-a-p-u-r. There, now whit do you think? 'they're red, and blue,
and every color."-
Dick gave up his teazing, and not being clear-as.to the orthog-
raphy, declined to press the 'point, and the two went off arm-in-
arm together.
Miss Dulcet and the Captain had already walked away, 'prsu-
ing their investigations of the porcine genus ; and' Chris and
Zephyr were left: to themselves. Shepatted him,,and fed hit all
the candy Jan had given her. (He was always buying ;goodies,
and had brought'a great package to Brookside, to while the Wait.
ing;) and then he stuck his nose into 'her hand insinuatingly, beg.
ging for more.
"All gone, Zephyr; I'll give you a kiss, though. You'd never
have gotten those 'if my mother hadn't given me ip-cac;-sugar to
make me hate sweets ; she saved much sugar by hei- plan, and you
get Jan's-candy. Dear old fellow, 'how did you know it was
nice?"'
Somnehow she began to tWist restlessly, as if she were ob-
served, and looked out in time to catch a 'glimpse of a dark
figure among the hay-ricks, 'and Mr. Otho watched the swallows
Ainder the 'eaves, pondering w'hat he had seen.
Miss Belle meantime had seated herself in the chair-swing,

WIDOW 'GOLO5EtrHS I%.UGHlTENf.
WTd Jan Vedder felt }honored in being permitted 'to sena her Ying
through the air; and was satisfied with the smiless and song=
snatches he got from her, as she came fluttering 'past him.
" Jan is a handsome chap, and he's putting his muselds to -good
use, just-now," remarked Chandy, who delighted not in such er-
ercise.
Thy shifting of the various actors had left him, Sam 'and Haux-
hurst together for .a few moments, and 'they were presently joined
by the Captain, who had been dismissed 'by Dulcet, 'to the end
that she might renew her complexion with neen fn, Which she
generally did 'once in about fifteen 'minutes, at all festive gath-
erinigs.
" What does he propose doing in Millville ?" asked Hauxhirst,
who had small 'opinion of lazy people.
"1 expect not much 'except to *hunt and fish ; he's more money
than he can use, anyhow. You see his mother petted and spoiled
him; she's a delicate pretty little creature, and 'as soft-hearted as
anything."
"He's got grit in him, I know," said the Captain. "'That
mouth of his'n don't shut so tight 'as it ought to, and he's got
an awful dimple in his cheekss; but his eye is as bright as ,a
hawk's. He'll come out all right; he's reapt in considerable of a
crop of wild oats a'ready. But law, Chandos, he ain't so much
to blame, after all. You see a woman that has got a boy to fetch
up is like an old hen that has been sot on duck's eggs ; she has a
good enough time as long as they :stay in the nest, but just the
minute they get out, and put for the pond, and begin to swim off;
she's all fuss and feathers. The young varmints don't 'mind 'her
clucking 'a mite, no more don't the boys, headstrong :ereat tes ;
know all about it, for I've been there, and I expect I ke1 gy moth-
er awake many a night, and I didn't mean no harm, neither."
S"Well, anice hen brought me up, and I hope I haven't beena
cross to her.- My swimming has been satisfactory so far," said
Sam.
"So was I," said Hauxhurst,." and I 'flatter myself she abVer
clucked unheeded."       -


1380          WIDOW GOLI)SMIrH'S 'DAUGHTER.
"And;I," added Chandy. "Why boys, what ,a *precious lot of
ducks we are, to be 'sure."
"I'll tell you a true- story about a hen, if you will promise to
believe me,"rsaid Hauxhurst. S
"Go on Johnny ; only don't make it too hard for our constitu-
tions;j we are tender lambs, you know."
tihad a pullet when I was a wee chap, which I set on'duck's
eggs,, and she brought them all off successfully.; and though she
nearly went into spasms when they took -'to the water, she' got
used to it after a little, and would wait about peaceably for them
to have their swim, and hover and cuddle them as motherly as
could be. The next time she wanted to set, I put her on to hen's
eggs, and when they hatched, down she started towards the pond;
and she tried her level best to make the chicks go in; and when
she found they wouldn't paddle, she. just picked them up one by
one,. and plumped them into the water, and the consequence was
she had a lot of. dead chickens in about fifteen minutes."
"I say, John Haux, you don't expect us to swallow that."
"I assure you it is true, Goldsmith. It occurred under my
own eye, on my own place. . If you will come home with me some
time I'll-show you the pond, and introduce you to my mother hen
and the rest of her brood, who I flatter myself are as creditable
offspring as you'll find in any farm-house."
We'll make up a party," said Chandy. "You may count on'
a benefit."
Chris having bid good-bye to Zephyr, had sauntered slowly toward
the kitchen, where Deborah, a great raw-boned, powerful woman,
stood at a table dressing the birds for supper. Coarse-featured
and large-handed, as she said of herself, " cut out for a regular
steamboat," it was surprising what a beautiful light broke over
her face as Chris entered ; it was a real welcome, and she took it
thankfully into her heart. She sat down by the window, and
looking out at the. bright-colored fowls glancing and shining in
the sunshine, she said in a pitiful voice:
"I've come to stay with you, Deborah; you love me, don't
you ?"

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       381

"Indeed and indeed, but I do, little Chrissy; no, you are not
little Chrissy now, but I can't seem to,take in your bigness. Do
you remember my ducklings you put to sleep down by the pond,
and brought me to see them. 'Ltook, Deb,' says you, 'how pretty
they lie, all their little swimmers tucked up under them.' Ha !
ha! you said so, Miss Chrissy, and my poor ducklings all as dead
as door-nails; and'the old black sow that came so near being the
death of you, such a wicked, savage beast as she was when- she
had young ones, and so hard to fat up at last. .I shall'never for-
get how you looked that day, when my Bessie came flying to me,
so scared, and when I got there I was- fit to drop. . You'd got
your curly head drawn back over your shoulders, and your two
fat arms up, and your great eyes fastened on her, and she with
her fore-paws in your lap, champing and grunting. My blessed
people, hew Thomas did run, when he got sight of her.! He
dropped the milk pails, brimming full, and came like lightning,
and all her little pigs racing and squealing with their tails over
their backs, for a bit of you.
She looked into Chris' troubled face, almost as if these remin-
iscences were prolonged with a purpose.
"You did'nt come up to the old place for a long while, and you
are a good deal changed since those times. I would'nt have be-
lieved you could have grown so. When you came up with Mr.
Otho last March I could'nt get over beingsurprisedof you. You
like Mr. Otho, Miss Chrissy ; he's a fine quiet gentleman, is'nt he ?
he loves to hear about those times. He comes to me of a morn-
ing with a book in his fist, and sits there by that window, just
where you are now, (Chris got up and moved to the side by the
door,) and he says to me, and I busy with the pastry:and things,
'Mr. Goldsmith was a great -fisherman, was'nt he ?' or, ' Miss
Chris used to come often to Craigenfells, Deborah ;' and then I
tell all, how you used to climb and jump and frolic, and how still
and pretty you would sit by your papa, and he .a reading to you
and twisting your curls. Oh yes, he's a very nice gentleman, and
its. quite a pleasure to have him here. You ought to go.back


388       -WWOw GOnDs~mIn'S DAUGHTER.

amongst the youngfolks now, dear," she continued, looking wist-
fully-nto the troubled young face, "they wills miss you."
"Oh no, indeed," said Chris. curling her lip, "no one will miss
me;. I'm better here with. you than: anywhere else. I wish I
could come and live with you, Deb, and be petted and cuddled."-
"Poor child! and you.,so young. and so pretty! well, that beats
all! Here:comes the young ladies! I told you they would be
huntingyou out."y
"I don't want, to -see any of them; don't let them in!"
Chris slid .through the wash-house door and ran around- in
through the :entrance to the conservatory, and hid behind an or-
ange tree. She felt too stormy to show her face just yet, but
that scamp. of a Pom had seen her run, and set off in chase, and
he seized-her dress and barked and made dashes at her, which all
her attempts could not quiet."
"-Here she is," said Zoe; "caught and caged, but notstarved
to death. Leave go, you young villain, she's none of your game.
Come out on the lawn, Chris, I want you."  She held up a bunch
of ox-eyed daisies close-clasped in her little fist. "You are to
have your fortune told. We've all had ours. Sabrina is doomed
to wither on the parent-tree. Belle Brandon has a thief in re-
serve for her,. and" nobody is suited but me. I've a fierce Indian
chiefswith a couple ,of tomahawks, and a row of scalps, and I'm
to live:in a wigwam like Laughing-water, and make moccasins."
While she ran on, she had: been drawing - Chris after her, and
she stopped-before Peter, saying--
" I'm done for, Peter.- I'm away to the great hunting grounds.
I hope you will come and see.-me, and, I'll let you ride my pet
buffalo, and grind you some parched corn and treat you to-half-
a-dozen scalps and, a wampum belt, if- my savage warrior will
permit me. Chris. is about to tempt fate now; stand aside, all of
you, while I place her within the magic ring."  She pushed- her
up to the wide-spreading elm, beneath whose shade Otho sat
calmly-,smoking in the great laurel-root chair and thrust a daisy
into -her.hand.
" That is the king of the sorcerers sitting there," she explained,

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.        -     383
in a stage whisper. "ie could tell your fate by looking into that
fiery ruby on his finger ; but since Solomon put down the diviners
and soothsayers, he is afraid of being taken up by the police and
"lodged in the calaboose ; so we won't speak to him. Begin now."
"But I don't know the lingo ; such nonsense !"
" Of course it is arrant nonsense ; don't' ask-Miss Goldsmith to
try to be amused with our follies. Such great. minds can't be
expected to be pleased with a rattle and tickled with a straw."
Chris seized the daisy immediately. "Tell me," demanded
she, turning her back upon Belle, who had placed herself behind
Otho's chair, " what is it I am to say."
" Rich man, poor man, beggar man, thief, lawyer, doctor, In-
dian chief. I know before-hand how it will end."
"-How?" asked Sabrina.
"Why doctor, of course. I see the seedy individual at. this
very moment, jerking along in his rusty old sulkey, his saddle-
bags before him, and wafting about his responsible person odors
not by any means of Araby the blest."
"I don't fancy the picture, and don't think I shall tempt, for-
tune if she has nothing better to offer me."
"Biut you shall, though. You have done some tremendous
things to please yourself to-day, and now you shall please us."
"The French maidens have a much prettier way -of 'telling
their destiny," remarked-Belle Brandon. " Did you ever hear it,
Chris ?"
"Yes," answered Chris shortly, " I have."
" Please explain it then," said Belle, eyeing her incredulously.
Chris deigned- no reply, and was about to' retire altogether,
when Zoe caught her hand. " I' know what it is, and we ,wil
have it, only I can't speak French, whatever the rest can do."
" Dear learned Chris can speak it, I am sure," said Belle, with
a wicked glitter in her eyes.
" Can you?"- asked Zoe.
" I suppose I might," she replied indifferently. "But I don't
feel in the humor to-day."


- t

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S..DAUGHTER.

385.

884           WIDOW GOLDS4ITW1'S ,DAUGHTER.
"Humors are, so convenient. sometimes," said Belle. "They
serve to shelter all sorts of short-comings."
Otho seemed not to be listening. He had risen and stood lean-
ing against the tree-trunk, getting a view of the lake through his
tubed hand.
" Come, fire away, Chris !" called out Chandos impatiently.
"You can stumble through some how, I dare say, and I'm going to
tempt.dame Fortune myself when the feminines are disposed of."
"Ihad rather not, Chandos, if you please ; I don't care about
making afool of myself."
"Speak to her, Mr. Groenveldt,.she always, obeys you," said
Belle.
"I think Miss Goldsmith is right. It is folly, and folly afoot
does not suit such a grave, dignified young lady ; she needs
Zephyr as a coadjutor."
Belle looked perfectly radiant, and the others glanced uneasily
at Chris, whose face was pale and quiet.
" Give me a fresh daisy, Zoe," said she quickly; "I'm going.
to try for a wigwam next to yours. I'm sick of civilized people."
Fluently and smoothly, without the least effort or hesitation, or
as Chandy told her afterwards, like "a demned native," she pro-
nounced, the phrases, as she plucked the petals-" i m' aine un
peu, beaucoup, passionnement, pas de tout."  She came to the.last
ray, and it ended, with "passionnement."  She stood with the
denuded receptacle in her fingers and colored painfully, amid the
chorus of laughers around her, and Zoe presented her another
blossom, saying-
"Very' well so far. You've got the lover all safe, now then for
the wigwam. I've set my heart upon having you for a neighbor."
Without an instant's hesitation she went through the formula,
ending as Zoe had foretold with doctor,  Not daring to glance at
Otho, in the clapping of' hands and shouting which ensued, she
stood twirling the little. yellow button, and studying it in the
deepest embarrassment. When .she' did look up he was gone.
He had walked to the house, and was already running his
fingers over the piano keys in the great drawing-room.

Belle Brandon gazed fixedly at her in the Geraldine manner.
At fault once more. What sort of a creature was this. She had
jocosely named her the wooden image on the hill that night, and
had used the epithet since when it was safe. She felt the most
intense desire to bring her into ridicule, and rejoiced over her
quarrel with Otho. What was only a passing idea at 'first,:from
a habit- she had of so amusing herself with her acquaintances, and
looking upon this absent-minded, ill dress.ed girl as fair game,-had
gotten from one cause and another to be, a fixed purpose. While
she was, thinking and gazing, Chandos came up with a daisy in
his hand.
" Now is the appointed time, I think, Miss Brandon ; please
put me out of my misery at 'once. Do I love you or do' I not?
in pity decide the momentous question for me, and my tortured
heart shall either heal itself in your smiles or fly from their pres-
ence forever."  He presented a famous ox-eye, with a killing
bow and his hand on his vest pocket. Belle took it with.a pretty
smile, and the words came trippingly from her smooth tongue,
but looking out for the end, she counted forward, and foresaw that
it would come out "pas de tout."  Dexterously and quickly she
jerked two at once, hoping she was unobserved, and allowed her
voice to fall into melting cadence, and a pretty blush to mount
in her.cheek, as she finished softly, "passionnernent."
"All right ;- I'm ahappy man, or shall be when my moustache
gets a little thicker; and one word in your ear, MissBrandon."
Belle bent graciously, and he whispered, with his mouth saucily-
near to her cheek-
" I think if you should try that dodge on to Jan Vedder, you
could bring it out without. any prestidigitating. He's head over
ears already, and puch a look as you gave me just now, would
finish him off teetotally."'
Bello glowered, and jerked ner head away from Master Chandy
and his impudence, who walked off with a saicy laugh.
Bertha Groenveldt stood apart from the rest, behind a shelter-
ing rose bush, with a daisy in her fingers, from which she was
17


a86          mWWGOLP8XIs   I's:PUe    m.
hurriedly, plucking the white rays, and her viyid color went 'and
came as she neared the last,
"He loves me," she murn ured, putting the. last petal to her
lips. ' Oh, I hope sol.
Chandos came up behind her, and waited unperceived for the
climax, iptending to laugh with her at the result, whatever it
might be, but when, he. saw her emotion, he stole. off, with-
out a word; and, going out among the pines, he:%limped;thought-
fully up and' 'down, his 'head bent, and his eyes fixed upon. the.
whi shells, whistling melhdiously for full five. minutes.. Then
he-took his hands'out of his pockets and tossed off his curls, and
started for.'the house, by way of the garden. Emerging from the
hedge, he. cameupon Pauline Bradshaw, seated crossleggedi in_
Thomias'blue wheelbarrows with her-back to the wheel, her hands
folded in her.lap,, coolly observant of, Dick Walsinghamns crimson
face, and puffed' Qut cheeks,,who was. officiting as' her°thorough
bred: and,:hbad evidently been, at his top, speed; for he was nearly
blown, anidrew in his breast like.a puffing porpoise. He stopped
in the shafts and. pulled; out his handkerchief; and mopped his hot
face
"I say Pauline,' #said he, wickedly,, you are only a klad of
dirt) after all;"'
"«We are all, made of dirt," replied. Pauline composedly.,
Biut:some-areruade of coarse red gravel6"
'Yes, Injins, and those,"' answered: Pauline still: unmoved4
"'lam nade. of that nice kind that they make fine teacups 'out of.
Mama read to me about it, in 'Pallersy the Potter.' I believe it
silencec' "
'f Ha ! ha!l" roared: Dick. "If you are, made- of silence, Id
just like to seethe-giil'that inmade of. talk,"'
"Shall I tell you what you are made of?"
"I knowyou're going to- say putty, or dough, by your looks,
but I don't care, you can't plague me-abit.
"o indeed; you are made 'of 'that kindsof clay that theymake
vinegar jugs out of. That is what' yQu are-made of"'
Chandy clapped his hands and they both turned around. "I'll

WIDOWM GOLDSITHa'S: DAUsrIR.     387

help you out a little Pauline," said he,. and chanted through his
nose.
"'Snaps and snails and puppy dog's tails,:
That's what little boys are made of.'
"Pauline, when you've got tired of sitting in that old wheel-
barrow, I'd get out if I was you," said Dick in a huff; and tossing
one his cap and swinging his arms, he walked away, entirely ignor-
ing Chandy.
"PIm tired now, Dick," said Pauline, rising hurriedly, and pre-
paring to follow.
" Are you. not angry with Dick,. Miss Pauline.? I think he is
not very polite."
"No. I think he is splendid. He is'only going, off to get rid of
you;  we. don't want him round with us, do we, Dick ?"
"I think I may as well hobble off," said Chandy, laughing, " so'
cleverly left out of the play. Good-bye, Pauline."
He came back. to the party indoors,,.his brow' cleared, and his
handsome face lighted up cheerily. They 'were all gathered
around the piano, where Otho was preparing to accompany-Miss
Brandon in a song. She had selected "Poor Louise," which. if
it is not quite the thing to come out of a: pure' young maiden's
mouth, certainly suited Belle's style of execution,, and' showed off
her liquids upper. tones. When she had: finished, she. turned to
Zoe..
"My' aunt would not, let, me sing that song. I think it. is
charming, don't you?"
" The air is beautiful, and you singit delightfully," said. Bertha,
coming to. Zoe's-help, who was trying. to find,,something.,to 'say
which should be:true,. and- not sound rude. Otho: laid, the sheet
aside, with a little curl of his short upper lip, and began. Buck's
",Sleigh: bells,", that charming. composition which- has. in it a
whole poem of winter pleasures. Miss Brandon studied him till'
he had finished,, and when the last.chord was struck, she ran up
and clasped Chris' ant. gushingly.
"Now dear, ,you tshall-sing us. something."

t


-'WIDOW .GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

Chris startedsand freeing herself as tenderly 'from the grasp
as if it had been Geraldine in person, she refused plumply.
" But you must, child. You know what happened to the wick-
ed fellow who hid his talents in a iiapkin." .-
"You may spare your irreverent breath, for I assure you,
nothing is farther from my intention than to do anything which
could by any chance afford you one instant's gratification:"
4"'Oh dear," exclaimed Belle, holding up her hands, "don't be
so overwhelming. I'm absolutely quenched."
Zoe put her arms around her, and whispered'in her ear. "Can
you sing pet ?" said she. Chris nodded. "What a developeryou-
are, as rich as cream. You shall be good and sweet to Sabrina
and me, and we'll let'you polish off Belle as smooth as you' like."
" Miss Goldsmith," said Otho, " this way if you please."
Chris approached most unwillingly, but she did not know how
to refuse. He pointed to a manuscript so elaborately copied as
to be scarcely distinguishable from copper plate, which he laid
upon the racli, rolling it first in his hands to make it stand up.
"If you please," he bowed as quietly as though about to give
a singing lesson.. " Stand a little nearer; Miss Brandon could tell
you the exact spot to occupy to suit yourself and your pianist."
The hot blood dashed over Chris face in a crimson flood as she
glanced at the music.
"It is impossible," exclaimed she faintly,' "I cannot do it."
" Come Chris, don't bother !" called out Chandy, " my sister is
not going to be indulged in anysmall nonsense."'
" Mr. Groenveldt," said Chris, speaking very low, "do you
really wish me-to sing that ?"
"I am not in'the habit of making idle requests."  He went on'
withthe prelude; arrived at the bar, he glanced up at her with
a business nod, saying, "begin."  Somehow, in spite of herself, of.
her anger and bitterness, she had to begin, and she went through
in &amp; wrapt hush of eager listening.'
Aliost'before the last note had ceased to vibrate, the dear old
Professor came and gently placed her hand within his arm, to lead
her out to supper. Patting the little palm softly he said:

. "Your song smells of the . daisies, and tinkles like running
brooks, Fraulein, pleasant and sweet."
" You are very kind, sir," answered Chris in a tired voice.  -
" Fidde lural, lural le, rump to tidde diddie de," Chandy chan-
ted, snapping his fingers, and toeing and heeling to the measure.
"What . tricksey, pucksy, dancing, prancing little ditty it is Chris,
you've got hold of there. Where did you come across it."
"It is really quite pretty," said Belle Brandon. "I was going
to learn it at Saratoga, last summer, but I thought it rather tame
for my style. Don't you think it is rather tame, Mr. Groenveldt.
You are a connoisseur."
Otho had already left -the piano, and offered his arm to Mary
Ann Williams, and made no reply to the question.
"Girls," said Sabrina, who was lingering near the piano, and
had the song in her hand, " Look here ! "'Words by Christabel,
music by O. G. Craigenfells, March 20th."
" Sold! Belle Brandon, sold for a song," shouted Chandy in
high glee.
" 'Well, it don't matter in the least. Those things are all tid-reii
anyhow, as you yourself very elegantly expressed it. If it was
not that, it was something else about roses and posies, of the same
stamp," replied Belle without a blush, and coolly placing her hand
on Chandy's arm, she added:
" You asked me to go out to supper with you, I believe, I'm so
glad it is ready, for I'm as hungry as a littlesquirrel."
No, I don't find any such fact evolved from my inner con-
sciousness, but since you make the suggestion, shall I have the
honor."
Chris was seated at the Professor's right hand, but she -could
not enjoy his talk, though she made a great effort to attend, nor
could she reply to the polite things which her neighbor, Sam
Slaughton, addressed to her. She did laugh once, however, when
she glanced over 4t Pauline, who. was fitting each of her rasp-
berries on to her fingers like a thimble, and saying, "how-de-do,"
as she welcomed them into her mouth, with a grin and flourish ;
and to witness Dick's clutching of his knees-and giggles, in hiis

W" IDO;W ' GOLOSMITR'S 'DAL'GIITER.


fib''= 'rOLD5M1ITH'S DAUrGHTER.

WIDOW   OLdrMIT'S PAeUGfHTER.       391

buying etrts to keep in, and not entrage the proprieties iby his-
/merriment. It was the only bit of fun Chris got out of the whole
dinner, and that was firon in the dessert." Madame sat opposite,.
lookig her over, and disapproving, and longing to pounce upon
her And prune, and shape,.and work her up to her model.
It wasNa cheerful supper,most elegant in style and.hice in
cookery, Thomas, greatly to- madame's disgust, placed himself
behid Chris' chair, virtually acknowledging her as Yqueen of the
feast, That high potentate tried in vain to make him change his
place ; he looked over and beyond her, and saw none of her sig
nals, but was very grand and severe upon an unfortunate waiter
who misplaced some of the entrements, and waived him out of the
room instantly. He was as absolute at Craigenfells in the absence
of:the genial owner, as madame herself at RosenbIoom. ie
yielded to the dear old Professor and Otho, from respect and lik-
ing, but stubbornly refused to .e commanded by madame, and at-
tending perfectly to his duties, he would take his own way in dis-
charging them.
.Dleet, seated next Captain Slocum, devoted assiduous atten-
tion to him.. ie must see (she said to herself) how tenderly I
can anticipate all his wants. ,Glancing up and down the table,
for something particularly nice, she espied a plate of curled cress
before the Professor, who had a weakness for cress.
",Captain I" said she, with a most insinuating air, and wining
smile, "do try some of the peppergrass. It is a remarkably es-
culent vegetable. Thomas, please assist Captain Slocum to the
peppergrass."
"No thank you, ma'am," replied the.captain, eyeing it askance.
I don't seemto hanker after cut feed. This stew about fills the
bill, ego-bully; we used to call it in Texas."
This wa  ery hard lines to poor prim Miss Dulcet, though she
tried.not-to wince, and to look at the Captain as if his rough edges
were -fne polished marble. To turn the attention of those near
hershe raised her eyeglass at a picture opposite her.
:Isnot that an Airy Sheffer ?' said she.
rish befr Iwhere," called out.the Captain, dropping his

fork and caning up his neck.to gaze out of the window. . Poor
MisA Duleet let her glass fallisoftly into her iap) and applied her-
self to her trout, quite crest fallen, and Mr. Hauxhurst consider-
ately started a fresh topic.
"By the way, Peter,- how do you get on with your reform
school boy ?'
"Oh, pretty well, he's cute and sharp enough, but I c n't quite
nike up My mind to trust him yeti"
a"Peter, my lad, I heard that you had taken a boy, 'a little
scrubbed boy.' It is a good thing. I approve of raising the race,
but you remind me of a story MeClosky told last semmner up'at
Lake Moosemissie. Remember McClosky, Sam ?"
4 Oh yes, capital fellow, fish all day with the utmost diligence,
and never get a fin, though I must say he was not alone in his
luck. IHad an autit Sally up in the yard. I know I spent half a
day trying to knock the pipe out of the-old lady's mouth, and
never hit it once."
"Why, Mr. Slaughton," spoke up Sabrina in much surprise,
"I should think he would have put you off the place. Pray what
sort of a position could his aunt have held in the household to be
treated so rudely."
" It was monstrous," said Chandy, " but he set us the example,
he was shying sticks at the poor dear when wO got there, and in-
vited us to join'"
"You are making fun of us of course," said Zoe," are'nt they
Chris? what do they mean ?"
"There is axi English game-ar post set in the ground with a
rough head atop, covered with a cap, and a rod called the pipe
stuck into the nouth-and each player has so many shots at itr
with a stick. I did not know that it was ever played inthis coun-
try. Read about it in a book of games. I dare say it is about
it, that they are trying to mystify you," answered Chris quietly,
not in the least joining in the mirth.
"I'll go on with my story now," said Chandy, " my riddle is
e pounded. You see Mc  :losky had a friend at home who mnade
a specialty of employing ticket-of-leave-men, and such innocents,


392        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

on his estate as house servants, and a waggish guest told him that
some fine morning he would wake up and find himself the only
spoon in the house. You see the point Peter, I suppose ?"
" Pretty ood," said'Peter, joining in the laugh against him-
self.
" Ever eat any Pompino, Captain," asked Jan Vedder, watch-
ing the Captain working away at his trout..
" What do you know about Pompino, you young Dutchman ?"
"Oh I've caught lots of them," replied Jan, laughing..
" Whar ?" asked the Captain curtly.
" I paddled around the Gulf all one summer, when I was a
boy."
"Hook any devil-fish ?" (eyeing the young fellow keenly) ; he
thought he was humbugging.
" Not many," laughed Jan, "but I saw one do a rare trick; he
got caught among the piles of the new wharf, and he ripped them
up in 1o time, and set them floating out to sea. I was fool enough
to harpoon one, and I lost a good point.for my pains ; he did'not
mind it any more than a pin prick. The boys caught one that
night which measured twenty-two feet across and not remarkably
large either."
" They are a nasty critter, but there's one that's uglier down
there-that's- the ' Aligator-Gar.' "
" That," remarked the Professor to Chris, "is the only fish we
have which belonged to-the ante-deluge.period."
" Miss Dulcet had a little learning bottled up which she took
occasion' to uncork here.  "Apropos' to the Gulf, Professor,,
terrestrial incadescence is a wonderful study, is it not. It seems
to me that Frauenhofer's spectroscope is destined to take rank with
the telescope as a' revealer of secrets. Don't - you think so, sir?"
" Miss Dulcet is speaking to you, captain," said Chandy, ma-
liciously.
Captain Slocum went on pulling fish bones out of the. corner
of hismouth.,
"'Let her quilt, till I've et this, then, business before pleasure,
can't talk now."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.'

393

"I was not addressing you, sir," said Dulcet ready to cry,
"don't disturb yourself, pray."
" Oh yes you was, Miss Dulcet, there's no use denying it. You
was looking right at Captain Slocum," said Belle, enjoying her
mortification, and hoping to bring out another retort, from the
Captain.' This time it was Sabrina who came to the rescue.
" I suppose you all know that Professor Soyez is coming to
Millville to give a course of lectures on cooking. He prepares
the dishes in the presence of the audience, and permits them to
taste the good things. They say his lectures are high art, and
Adolphe the cook is a perfect poem. " I move we all go."
" I'm going," spoke up Zoe, promptly. She would have said
the same if it had been 'the Chinese jugglers or a traveling car-
avan.
"There's one Bourbon among us, who needs no lessons dans le
cuisine, as we can all testify, having often been permitted to taste
the delicacies she excels in," said Belld, bowing to Chris.
"You iean my sister, I suppose," said Cha-ndy, getting up,
.throwing down his napkin with a flourish, pulling down his vest,
aid clearing his throat. "Unaccustomed as I am, and tinpre-
pared-"
" Hold on, Chandy," said Sam, "let's finish our dinner first ; you
ruin our digestion mixing things so,"
"All right, just as you say," replied Chandos, sitting down, and
going on with his dinner.
"My aunt had a splendid cook, but she was a perfect demon,
and kept a small inferno in the kitchen. Good cooks as a rule
are always ugly, do you know ?' I think it is a 'curious fact ; I
don't know if it is the spices or the heat which spoils. the temper.
What do you think, Mr. Groenveldt ?"
Otho bowed -politely, and professed himself not sufficiently up
in the subject to discuss it ; and Chris seemed so. absorbed in
Sam Slaughton, toward whom her head was turned, that Belle
felt as if she had lost her shot. She need not, however,"for Mas-
ter Chandy had taken note for' future reference, and he was an
excellent paymaster of all such scores.


394

WIDOW GOLnSMITU's D.VGWTER....

"I'm glad you are so fond of cooking, Christabel,". said Dulcet,
smiling at the Captain. "'I am an excellent house..wife, myself,
and I shall, be delighted to compare impressions and experiences,
as wel 1 as to exchange recipes."
" I am not only not fond of it," said Chris, bluntly, "but I hate-
and despise it, and everything belonging to house-work. It is de-
testable drudgery, and an. intolerable burden too heavy to be'
borne."
Madame could not help turning to Otho, with an "I to'd you
so;" triumph on her face, but she said, patronizingly:
"I think 1 must undertake to chaperone yoii, my dear child,, to
those lectures. I have heard much of them; you may get to
like necessary knowledge better after a while-I hope so, at least.
No young lady is ready to marry in this country of irresponsible.
servants till she can keep a house, and these plain duties must be
her pleasures."
" I, for one young lady, madame, have no idea-of getting rar-
ried; nothing is farther from -my thoughts and desires;, and as
for this everlasting cant about duty,rm sick of the sound of it."
Madame forgave her the flippancy of her ending in the fervent
hope that she might long continue in the same mind as touching
marriage; and she began to meditate a lecture upon the peculiar-
duties and obligations of old.maidenhood, after the style of those-
she. wasaccustomed to deliver from her seat of authority at Ros-
enbloom, when she was rather put off the track by an innocent
remark of Chandy's.
"In brev curiculo, it is not worth while to go into tantos labo-_
res, freely translated, great fusses."
As he was looking, at her, she wondered what he meant, and
she was nearly petrified by an interchange of asides between-
Dulcet and the Captain.
(Miss.Dulcet, taking up her flower vase,)- Captain,,how would,
you like being a nursery-gardener;?"
(Captain, expressively smiling,) " Can't say that I hanker after
that, but I should admire. to-dote uponra nursery, ma'am."
The two diverse utterances nearly extinguished madame, iriso,

WIDOW GOLDS tTn'8 DAUGITITI             39
mach that she frowned upon the young Roaring Riverites, and
sipped her coffee in silence,
The dear old Professor head nnee of it,.for he was watching
Chris. Her flashing eyes and unrestful look troubled him, and
he searched his thoughts for a pleasant topic.
S "I found some lovely Coleoptera,.Frarlein, on the mountain this
morning."  He touched her hand as he spoke with a light caress.
"I must 'show you."
" Do you make collections of those things, sir ?" interrupted
Chandy. The Professor noted the merry light.in the youngster's
eyes, and rubbed. his hands.enjoyingly.
"Ah yes, I am fond of them; but I not do find such many nice
ones in dis countrie. They be all too sad-colored;. no sparkle, no
foyer."
" Why, sir, how odd now ; who to look at you would take you
for such an old bug-ger."
"Bug-ger ! bug-ger ! Vas is das ?" replied the Professor, rais-
ing mystified eye-brows at his son.
- A moment's anger possessed Otho, that the irreverent fellow
should dare to cut .jokes upon his dear, noble father; but he soon
got the better of it, and explained the play upon words of Ohan-
dy's audacious nonsense, and. Herr Groenveldt glanced at the fun-
lighted eyes which so fearlessly sought his, and replied, chuckling
and shaking his finger:
"ou von fery pad poy, I tink ; any-wase you make von fery
pad choke."
The laugh turned where it belonged, and Chandy's was loudest
and heartiest of all.     -
Chris was glad when it was all over, the talking and.the laugh-
ing, which made her dizzy; and she glanced sometimes at Oih,
wondering if he thought of that other supper, so different to this,
and which: seemed- so very long ago. Tears rose. in her eyes,
everything was so cris-cross, and out of joint; the rich color was
fading out of her cheeks, and she looked: weary and, absent, and
*when the others went trooping toe the top of. the house, 4r the
view, she gladly escaped. unobserved into the grouxids. FPasing


306        WIDOW GOLDSMI H'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMIfHI'S DAUGHTER      37

out under the spreading oaks, she followed the devious path
around the black pond, glassy and still, and sat down upon a rus-
tic bench inzthe square temple of a 'summer-house at its edge,
and leaning over the rail and watching the great floating lily-pads
and their shadowy doubles in the deep water, she fell to thinking.
Our Chris was not one of those dead-and-alive souls, who plod
along, bearing life upon their bent shoulders like, a faggot of
brushwood, neither did she rush and hurry through the hours,
tumbling together events and impressions in a tangled web, like a
skein of waste cotton, to be tossed on the shelf and forgotten.
She stopped, as we know, sometimes, to think, to resolve what
she saw, and heard, and read, and felt, and so lived her life over.
and over, gathering rare flowers, where commoner souls found
only trailing weeds ; but also suffering keen tortures in memories
of words and deeds which they dropped out of their lives without
an emotion.
Now gazing down at the face looking up at her from the still
pool, she went over her day and took herself bitterly to task for
her conduct. Rude, hoydenish, quick to take offence, flippant
and pert toward Madame, vixenish to her best friend;. a sad
record for half-a-dozen hours. True, she had been made to suf-
fer, and sobs came- up in her throat and choked her as she remem-
bered how the hardest. blows had been dealt, and by whom. A
wise man has said, 'no one knows so well how to inflict tortures as
those rho have the key to the little side -door of the heart;' and
poor Chris, without knowing what she did, had unlocked the por-
tal and welcomed grave Otho into the very inner chamber. Now -
she tried to arm herself with indignation to drive him forth, but
there he sat, ;imperative, exacting; not to be contradicted, but oh,
so kind. How could the first slight, thefirst stern look, have
made her forget the constant kindness which had enriched her life
for so many happy weeks with new and unknown flavor.' The
goodness-which had chosen her for a companion front among so
many'superior to her in every way;, which had ignored her glar-
ing; faults, her hideous imperfections. Appearances. were' cer-
tainly against- her,:and she had. made a fool of herself;, and acted

a part in a loud, wild style, quite- foreign' to her, and which she
hated to remember. Oh! how she wished she had power to blot
out all the events of the day, and be again as she was in the morning.
Great tears welled up and dropped down upon the lily-pads ; so
abandoned to the abomination of desolation was the poor child,
that she did not hear a foot-fall upon the gf-avel -walk leading to
her penance-chamber, nor the breaking of the Provence rose-bush
which climbed over the pillars behind her.
" Christabel," saida grave voice at her side.
Just a flutter of the blue-veined lids acknowledged his pres-
ence, but she did not raise her face, and after an instant of wait-
ing, he spoke again, holding out the clustering buds.
- " Let there be peace between me and thee, Sappho; you tossed,
away my pansies, don't let these innocent flowers share their fate.
See how fresh and sweet they are ; take them, Chris."
Still she did not move.
" Come, that pretty head has been turned away from me quite
long enough; it is time for you to smile and be friendly again.
.You are not enjoying your party, and it is I who have spoiled it
for you; I, who would do so much to.make you happy."
With a quick, impatient movement, she turned farther away
from him.
"A fly once perched on the curled horn of an ox, and said to
him: -'Ox, if my weight troubles you I will remove,' and the
beast replied: 'Of a' truth, fly, I did not know you were there."
As she finished, she glanced over her shoulder at Otho, and lo!
his face decked in one of his rare, pleasant smiles_; and the
thought shot- through ,her heart like a rang, how much kinder
they were than-any sunshine.
"That won't do, Sappho," said he, quietly ; "it xis too late for
you .even to pretend to ignore my presence, because I am always
in your thoughts."
She dropped her face, and gazed into the still pool in silence.
" Even now," he went on, coming around and seating himself
by her, "even now you are trying to find words. in. which 'to say


WWQW    GOLDSMITH' PAUGHTI-
sonething to me which lies heavyion your heart, and youwill be
happier when it is skid ; but first take my flowers."
Chri, hesitated an instant, and then reached out and took them.
ith trembling angers, and -laid tjem softly down on the bench
beside her, and controlling .her voice with an effort of which he
felt the value,. she lifted her face to,,his, regardless of ia tear-
blots, her brown eyes' wimming, and their out-look as pitiful and
beseeching as when in the old days;Abe crept to her father's heaet.
for forgiveness and comfort.
"You speak iruly, sir ; I have something, to say; I have to own
my foolish behavior, I. have to ask pardon for my rudeness. You,
would be quite right to withdraw your friendship from such a silly
child, who has this day shown, herself unworthy of it. I pity
myself, for I have fallen in my own esteem; I am not so steady
and reliable and discreet as I supposed myself to be."
Now here was a first-rate opportunity for Mr. Otho to read her'
the lecture which he had fully made up his mind she deserved,
and should certainly have; but she blamed herself so ingenuous
ly, ;and, looked so pretty in her disconsolate abandonment, her
chestnut hair.falling about her flushed face, and touched into sup
shine by the last red sun-rays, her arm thrown over the rail, and
her scarlet lips drooping in a hopeless, sorrowful curve, that ashe
looked, he quite forgot his lofty anger.
"Take up n y flowers, Sappho," said he, for answer; 'you are
purer and sweeter than they."
Still, it must be told that in his secret soul he felt this to be the
properattitude of affairs,; he had a right to be implicitly believed.
in, not to say worshiped; and obedient gratitude was the safe
condition of soul for her to maintain towards him.
"Lords of creation, men we call,
And they think they rule the whole;
But they're much mistaken after all,
For-they're under woman's control."
at i, most of them; Mr. Otho, was probably an exception.
hvis trusted and reverenced, him, at any rate,'and she fastened!
wistful eyes on his face.

WrDOW GOIS TU'H DAUIBTER,             399
" Do you like me as much as you did before I leaped that gate?
I cannot tell you how wicked I felt when Ic went over ; I almost
hoped Zephyr would fall with me, and make au end of every-
thing."
lie expressed none of the horror or surprise .she feared. to see ;
on the contrary he was regarding her with a curious smile.
"I think I may safely say, Sappho, that I like you quite as well
before. . It is not. a. crime to ride well. When you and I take
our guerdon ride we will have no troublesome cotpanionand
then we will try Zephyr against Tramp'- your skill against mine;
but I give you warning that I shall take more than five bars, and
you will need a cool head and a firm. hand if you matchzne,
Though I did not know you were so fearless and skillful a rider,
I felt sure you would come to no grief, because I trusted you not
to undertake such a feat unless you were confident of your pow-
ers. I have seen them tested already in so many ways,; that I
have security in you."
" Thank you, Dr. Groenveldt," said Cliris, with brightening
face; "you are so kind to try to set me at peace with myself "
"I am very glad Zephyr was true to his trust;;J  believe our
lives are a long way from the end; we have not begun really to
live yet, Put away your curls, Sappho, and look about you; this
is a lovely spot; I should not like to tell you how often, I have hid
you in my thoughts when I've been sitting here. I've brought
you up before me among my smoke-wreaths, and dreamed over
your changing moods, and every cadence of your voice is mine,
*To-night when you are gone home, and are quietly sleeping ke-
hind that great sheltering tulip-tree, that is always flapping its
broad leaves against your window,,I will be here, smokingin the
moonlight, and thinking of you. Do you see that little church
up yonder---Uncle Alec's whimsies?  How pretty and quiet it
looks, sheltered by the high trees, and the, shadow of the tmoun,
tail ! Sappho, your eyes are busy again, among the lilypads ;
look up at the church ! its spire points to heaven. I think it i9
through those othic doors that I shall walk to meet my hap-


400         WIDOW GOLDS3UTfl'S DAUJGUiTR..W

piness. Do you see them? they are never locked ; I can enter'
when I please, can I not ?"
" Oh yes, Otho ; I love that church ; I have said my prayers
there often."
Her eyes sought his, however, frightened at his words and
their expression, as if lighted' by a strange hidden fire ; but his
voice was calm and  quiet as usual.
"Sappho, if I were to say to you, what Oliver Cromwell said
to Elizabeth Williams that summer evening in her father's gar-
den,(it must have been such an evening as this, when the hyacinth
odors floated about them, and the daffo-down-dillies nodded at
them, and the blue violets sent up their incense,)would you reply
as she did?"
"I do not, understand you, Otho-your looks nor your words".
"Do you not? yet I speak good English, and my eyes are
faithful mirrors, which bear just now a most precious image.
Suppose I were to say to you, (I, being Oliver) : 'I've been think-
lig, sweet ITessie, that I would like to ask you to go up to- yonder
church, and come back my wife."  Then you, in your character
of Bessie, should reply: '_Dearest Oliver, I've been thinking of
that same thing niyself.'"
"A most bold and fearless Bessie, I should think," said Chris
smiling a little; "but maybe she.spoke truly, .for she married
him."
"Now, I being Otho, and you Christabel, suppose for a mo-
ment that I .were to propound the same inquiry. - Do you think
would get a like reply?"
"I -think it scarcely becomes you, Otho, to jest upon a subject,"
said Chris, blushing a little at the impossible picture thus brought
before her; but liftig her eyes to his, clear and clouded.  I
wish you would be quiet' and friendly like yourself. I am thank-
ful 'to have you'for a' teacher and guide. You have been so good
to me this evening. I begin to' believe in myself once more, and
I shall try hard to be worthy of your forbearance."
"S ppho, darling ! will you.be 'my 'wife ?". He had risen sud-
denly and stood before her, one hand resting on the rail beside

him, and with the -other he touched lightly her drooping head.
His voice rang out steady and even, and he looked proudly eon-
fident of success in his suit.
With a quick motion she raised her face, all the blood for-
sook her cheeks, leaving them as colorless as the white rose-buds
which trembled in her grasp, and her great brown eyes questioned
his eagerly.
"Well Sappho !" said he authoritatively, "it seems that you
are making me wait."
"You are very wise, Otho, but does it not strike you that I am
entirely unfit for that? I neveF for one instant supposed it pos-
sible that you could choose me. I am imperfect, unfinished, un-
schooled, every way wanting; forgive me if I question your wis-
dom. You should have a wife complete in all things."
" Christabel, you love me ?"
" Oh yes; how could I help that; but your wife ! I should not
dare td'take such a place. You are so rigid in your ideas of
women.. Oh no, I am not worthy ; I have not the courage."
Otho put his hand on her mouth. "I see you are truly sin-
cere ; but you must not, say such things, Sappho. You show me
Otho Groenveldt in a mirror so exceedingly concave that I hate
to acknowledge my identity. Dear old Craigenfells is the sweet-
est place I.know, for up here, pretty Chris, I began to love you.
You moved about those rooms in your quaint satin dress, and
they have been but shrines adorned for your image, to me, ever
since. You was afraid of me, too, at first, and would not let mg
see yourseyes, and I had a world of trouble to get you to be at
ease. But you rewarded mne richly, gloriously. Ah, that was a
wonderful day, Sappho. That night after Tramp and ,-had
take leave of you, I could not sleep, and I wandered up to  yon-
der church, and laid out my life. I must have you to go in at
the door with me and come out. my own, my very own. Our
marriage there would be a memory for a. life-time. Private-all
to ourselves-like a secret kiss. I know you will consent, you
cannot help yourself. You love me. Your eyes and voice have
told me so often, though you did not know it. I was wandering

Iq

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S- DAUGHTER.      401


402        W.iiO  GLt.S~ilTfl'S DAUGt iER.

up and down, - lonely :waif, when-you drifted towards  , and
with the rich fullness of your glorious gifts you astonished and
bewitched me. My life will be worthless if I cannot have you
to share it. What is it, darling? speak. My buds are suffering
ii your;.ruthless fingers ; leave them .-t peace, and let me see your
eyes; now sayyour thought. It would be hard for you -t6 find
an utterance which should not be pleasant to me."
Yous told me that you had chosen your wife. Yo  aid Ih
was a lovely lady."
"Indeed is she not?  Look down there, Sappho, at the face in
the pooh .1 chose arrogantly, now I beg of her to Choose me.
I}beg it'asmeekly as I know how. I am trying my best to be-
humble, and beg as a favor what I should like to grasp at once
as my right. Come,.say quickly that you will be as good to me
as Bessie was to Oliver. I know you will, for your eyes are all
aflame and your breath comes pantingly through your parted lips.
You are trembling. Come, dearest, come. I have 'lived over
this hour, but never. touched half its sweetness; for the shadows
lovelyias it was, I have now the precious reality; living,. glbwhig
before *me, and all mine! Is it not ?  What ! doubt and fear
chasing each other across your face !"
She slipped past his arms, which were, held towards her, and
stood quiet and still out of his reach, keeping down her emotions
with a self-doninant power which he beheld in wonder.
" Stop a moment, Dr. Groenveldt, and hear what I have to
say. ICam glad to trust my life to your keeping, for you have'
taught nie its use and value. You may make or mnar it as best
pleases you; but if you show me by word or look that I am not,
cannot ber what you desire and ought to have in your wife, I will
separate myself from yea, and leave you free, to choose more
wisely. I shall love, nay, worship you =always. Now you must
bepatient and give me time4. I hav'nt been a happy child,and
I am-not yet solvery old. Iiwilltry my best to rie to your ideal,
andi now-if youwant me, I am yours"
She made of her own accord a step towards him, with her eyes

WIDOW nOisrInTH's oDA     mGHTaE.       403
fixed on his,,in which the doubt and fear. still lurked, veiling half.
their joy, and let him fold herin his arms.
There was something proud and masterful, almost defying in
his very caresses, mingling with their passionate tenderness, and
a glad smile of. triumph mantled his features when the unrestful
look crept out of her eyes, leaving'them full of love and peace.
She was not settled and at home in her new happiness,
though ; for she soon broke away from him, and the hot blood
dashed over her face and neck.
' What is it, darling ?" said he, keeping his hold upon .her.
hand. " What most unwelcome thought has so cruelly chased
the love-light from. your pretty eyes, and hardened your fhce so
suddenly.?"
1 "had forgotten, Otho; your. mother does not like me, she
will not have me for a daughter."
"Will not!" he replied, tightening his grasp upon her hand.
"My wife need fear nobody. I shall be her shelter from all the
world, and I am the center from which her happiness will _come.
ly mother has excellent ideas, and is very strong in them. I
am strong also. You are to be near her this year, you know,-un-
der her care in fact. She cannot fail to see and appreciate your
talents, and she will help you in the studies you love best.. You
will respect her, because she is well worthy of honor, and you
will love her for my sake. My father loves you already. You
shall help him class his bugs and butterflies, and I'll let, you into
a secret,.Sappho.- I'm going to devote this year to, you. I'm
going to stay at Rosenbloom on purpose to take Bare of you."
"You! Otho. I thought you were to go to Chicago.
"Not just now, darling.: My father has kindly consented' to
accept my services,;'and I shall teach you mathematics."
" But I hate mathematics, I can't understand them."
"That is because I did not teach you.. IEshall make'you love
them. You must love what Ilove. You shall'alsoLenter thecPro-
fessor's Art School, and.:I will introduce youto 'the king of all-
instruments. Do you know that, wee are to haveviolin pr tick
together ? Well! here comes" another thought to the surface,


404          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S. DAUGHTER..
that you would like to speak, and don't know just how. I shall
relish the utterance ; I wonder what it is this time. Give it voice,
Sappho."
" The prospect you offer is very delightful, Otho; but how
shall I reconcile this sudden change of plan, this abandoning of
your business,-with the steadfast firmniess of your character?"
He studied her in curious enjoyment. " So soon, Sappho! do
you already begin to bring me to book for my actions? a bad
look-out for my future. But to tell you truly, I've been over
the same ground myself. You draw me toward you like a mag-
net, and I've made up my mind to give myself one happy year
.before I launch out to make my fortune. Can you wait for me
three or four years? Your Alpine tonr was to be at twenty,
you. remember, and we will go up yonder (pointing to thecchape,)
and then we will start on our travels. I must have a - positive
position, a prospect of certain living, and then we will commence
to work out the problem of our lives together.. The position
waits my acceptance, and a couple of years will accomplish the.
rest."
"But, Otho, I think I have plenty of money, or shall have
sometime."
"I have not the least objection. But I hav'nt, at least not
much, and I must get some. I intend to be the head of my house,
to give to you, not receive from you anything except pure love
and precious'happiness. While you are at Rosenbloom, digging
among the dead languages, I will be jogging about in that rusty.
old sulky Miss Zoe made so merry over, and. getting ready for
.you. - We will not be working people. My wife will like elegant
- living, handsome attire, and will array herself like the lilies of
the field; but she shall toil not, neither shall she spin. Some
. day she will come to me and beg of me with many sweet kisses
an opera box and diamonds, and I must'have them for, her."-
" Otho!"-said Chris, trying to read his face, (her own full of
secret trouble.)  "You know that such things are.not in all my'
thoughts ; fine dressing is not a: favorite vanity."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      405

"' But I choose you to shine. You told me once that yot would
like a life of luxury, and I intend that you shall try it."
Suddenly Chris' face broke into a mischievous smile.
"Give me the key," said Otho.
"I was thinking how my mother would look if she should hear
what you are saying to me. She would call you very wicked,
and speak disgustedly of the beggarly elements- of this world."
" Despising the good gifts of the bountiful God is not piety.
He giveth us all things richly to enjoy. The thin meagre creed
which frowns upon beauty, and shuts out amusements and sensu-
ous delights, is not my religion. We will not be wicked people.
We will lead good pure lives; we will be happy aand use our
means to make others happy, sharers in our good gifts; and we
will not~reject or despise the least little leaflet which unfolds for
our pleasure. But, dearest, you must be patient and brave, and
I know you will be busy, for you are - a good worker ; and you
must always come to me with your difficulties, and let me drive
them off, and be sure and fold me close in your heart. I'm an
exacting fellow, Sappho."
"You are aJ1 I have, Otho. I had nothing this morning. I
found my treasure here behind the roses, and I will even consent
to be gorgeous and splendid at your request," replied Chris with
a bright smile, but yet with a tear in her voice, "how I wish we
could just stop here in our lives a little while. Why cannot you
command the sun to stand still as Joshua did?"
" I can command, Sappho. I believe I am rather fond of it.
I shall command my wife, and shall expect her to obey-me, but the
sun regards me less than he did the hero of the rams-horns. You
see he moves on his road as grandly gorgeous as though I were
not. Only the golden glory on the hill-top will be left to mark his
path presently.' Come, let us walk a little way up the path;we
are to tread that day together."  Leaning on his arm, her hand
firmly clasped in his; she walked along the winding way, and he
drew from her all her troubles and trials, and got the key to the
moods of the day. Her eyes happened to light upon her gaunt-
lets, sticking out of her pocket, and she said reproachfully :


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S' SAUGNNI.     407

But Otho1 how could you believe that I gave. Belle Brandon
those gloves ?"
"Who toldyou that I did believe so?"1
"cWhy, I heard her myself, telling you a long tale about'them."
a Oh yes, of a truth Miss, Brandon has, spoken many words,
but there'is no harm done, for as theKing of Siam. told the Eng.
lish Embaissador, the speaker is one,. and the listener is' another."
It was so delightful to feel that she. belonged to Othoy and so
pleasant. tohim to hear her -talk, that - they forgot' the. speeding
moments, and Chandy shouted himself hoarse and Jan Vedder
put his fingers' between his lips and sent forthsuch a succession
of'shrill whistles that poor Porn went nearly frantic; before. they
came:dova   U TUader the pinetrees, onFa rustic: bench whichcom,.
manded the valley, they came upon Dulcet sitting very close; in.
deed to Captain Slocum. She had' been talking, pointingout to
his: notice the distant delights. of the landscpe. She had a.:very
thin white hand, and she made' the most o it. : As she raised it
before the Captain's eyes, he thought what a whopper of a d'ia.
mond he would buy for the third finger, if it really got to be Mrs
Slodum's. He had not touched upon the all: important subject,
since their adventure in themeadow, either by word or look, and
Dulcet felt as if the promised settlement were slipping througli
her-fingers, and"nerved up' to. desperation, she. heroieally resolved
to clinch the' thing at once:
"cCaptain Slocum, did you- really mean what you said this
afternoon'?"
"aAs how ma'am ?" inquired the' Captain, squinting-iite-thetree;
trunk with one-eye. shut, (there' was, an ant in it tugging a white
ball twice its' own size;); and he dived into his- pocket and! brought
out his jackknife, with murderous intent. Poor fellow ! he knew
well" enough that his days of liberty were ended, and though he
had' made up' his- mind,: e-hated to'be brought' into"the traees-as-a
horse: does- whohas had a long summer in pastures
'"You understand puffcklg sir, to what' refere, and if yotr do
not'intend to make. yoi- words good; ,Imust say you took aeery
unfair aantage of' my weakness '.

The Captain was so ardent in his pursuit; of his prey speaking
the bark quite savagely, always just where the ant had been, that
poor Dulcet's face fell and she- got tearful and hopeless.
"If you are a man of honor, you will speak up at once, sir !
If you don't, you' may go down directly, and I will deseend
alone."'
"I would'nt, my dear." The Capain snapped his knife together
and restored it t&amp; his pocket, and gazed at the slim teacherin
whimsical resignation. "i I would'nt if"j: wa you.-I'd  Wait=for
me. It begins to look' as if you'd goneit alone about as lbngas
is good for your constitution. I'm agreeable to rmaning a pir
if you think you'd like to  trot in harness' the rest of the way "by
my side.  've got the money- and, you've got the brains, aid we
can set up for ourselves a mbst any time, that i. if' yoU say 'o
I ain't dead sot on it by no means. If you don't think it will pay
you handsomely, don't invest. Your head is'nt in the 'collar, and
you can bolt, you know."
Dulcet sighed. This was so different to the love making she
used to picture, in her ronrantic youth, but such as it was, she was
obliged to make the most of it.
"But I could'nt leave my mother, Captain, not even for you,"
she said quite heroically, for she was doubtful how he would relish
such an appendage, men not being generally fond of mothers-in-
law, and she made haste to offset her declaration, by the remark,
"of course I don't object to morigeration. I have been teacher
too long for that."
" Ahem ! Yes, just so ma'am," answered the puzzled lover.
"I am glad of it ; just my mind, but I hope you don't take me for
a heathen. I never thought of asking you' to leave old Miss
Pettibone. I think a comfortable, easy-going old woman is a nice
ornament to a chimney corner."
Dulcet 'experienced quite a glow of love or gratitude or some
such emotion, and offered the Captain her white fingers, which he
took with careful politeness. " You are very good,'' said she,
"and we will consider the affair all settled."
They had a delightful ride home. Deborah invited Dick and

W DO C Go :D n cn's. DA1GET .


408        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S, DAUGHTER.

Pauline to stop all night, and being every tired, they gladly assent-
ed, and like the lady who was invited to tea and stayed two years,
they prolonged their visit indefinitely.
Sam Slaughton selected Sabrina. Belle Brandon, who had been
making inquiries about the Vedder estate, cantered gaily by the
side of the heir. Bertha was happy in Chandy's presence. Mr.
Hauxhurst dutifully held Mqry Ann's leading rein. Peter and
Zoe chatted in low tones about farming perhaps, and Otho kept
close by Chris, and discussed their future, filling it up with a thou-
sand pictures, all possible, and Swiss Mountains and Alpine sun-
sets were among them. When he parted from her, he kissed
her gravely on her cheeks and lips. "All mine Sappho. 'I
will not resign yournor let your happiness go out of my keep-
ing. Good night, my love, my Sappho, my wife."

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIF TTH.
THE FLOWER OF REMEMBRANCE.
Chris had a little broken cordial-glass under her mirror, hold-
ing a dozen velvet Pansies. She knew dearly what good reason
she had for tending them so carefully. She got up at four o'clock
to sketch them. You might have taken the little white toillete
for a shrine, if you had seen the young girl kneeling there, watch-
ing them with wrapt looks. After the third day they drooped and
faded: her worship could not save them. Thenai she brought out
her box of water colors, and painted her sketch of them. If she
had been preparing for the great exhibition she could not have
Worked with a richer glow on her cheek, or a deeper fire in her
brown eyes. She had some bits of perforated -card-board, apd
she set'to work upon a tiny casket. She lined it with violet, and
when she could no longer preserve her dear pansies, she cover d
them in, and bound them about with one of'Vher shining curls,
and kept the casket still upon the white shrine. Her flower of
remembrance.
18


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       411

CH APTER' T1V ZN T Y=-IX T H'.
THE 'SEWING SOCIETY AT THE DEACON'S.
Mrs. Deacon Williams was ill at ease. She had got to have
the Sewing Society. She rose from her couch, and threw up the
window-'and looked with. horror and dismay at the threatening
clouds. She put -forth her night-capped 'head, for a more extended
vision,, and this brought out ' conspicuously the modest covering
of the sheep's head pattern, and, of good strong factory-cotton
withwhich she was accustomed to cover her sconce o'nights. Use-
ful gear for elderly females, who are accustomed to lay aside their
back hair upon retiring, but positivelynot ornamental. Mrs. Wil-
liams did not "'sleep in her teeth," because as she explained, the
pesky things hurt 'her goombs, and being sore vexed of "heart-.
burn," she was slowly .munching, rhubarb, leaning meanwhile
upon her elbows.- The puckery nature of the drug, and the
squinting at the clouds, caused her to screw her ripe countenance-
somewhat out of its most agreeable contour, and she heard a sup-
pressed titter under the window, and withdrawing her gaze from
the heavens, she sent a withering glance earthward. It encoun-
tered Zoe and Sabrina, each with a basket on her arm. They
were returning from a visit to some of the sick Gonecussets.
As she made the unwelcome discovery, she drew in her sheep's
head with a sharp jerk, which brought it smartly in' collision with
the window, and she dropped the sash with an acute accent, which
made the panes to quiver and 'quake, thus losing the pleasant
" good morning " which the young ladies sent up to her, and the'
merry laugh which accompanied it.'
(410)

" What upon airth's there good-for-nothing girls galevanting
round after this time of day ! My night cap '11 be in everybody's
mouth before breakfast time."
"Your night cap, Miss Williams"! A curious morel as you
may say in a manner seeminly. Good night cap though, nothing
to be said agin it."
"Well ! I der say you call' that a joke, Deacon, but I'm free
to confess' I don't see the pint. I der say, you'd like to jine in a
laugh at your wife's expense. Your poor patient slave," and she
niutteringly added as she settled her stockings, " Jest you let me
catch you at it, if you think it's healthy."
The excellent Deacon had learned from long experience that
it was best to knock under, when his darling was a little put out,
and therefore he subsided beneath the bed clothes, and spoke no
farther word.
The mortification of having been seen in her early toilette, the
blow she had' given herself in her haste to withdraw her mature
charms from  scrutiny too close, and the certainty of having her
carpets soiled by the feet of the populace, made doubly sure now
by the pattering of the rain drops, all conspired sorely to ruffle
the good lady's temper, (not too serene at best of times.)  A bad
look-out for' Sonsie and the unlucky children. The deacon's for-
lorn endeavor to escape by ducking under the bed clothes was all'
in vain too, for as soon as she had gulped in her teeth, she turned
on him.
" I should really admire to know, Deacon Williams, if you ex-
pect to lay abed all day. If you don't stir your stumps, I'll just
shake up the feathers and turn you under."  A  threat she was
fully capable of executing, for she was as stout and powerful as he
was thin and weazened. "I do despise a lazy man above ground,"'.
and she stalked- out and banged the door after her, with what dear
Charley Lamb used to call " a wooden' danin," and he heard her
shrill tones in the distance scolding violently. Slowly emerging
from his shelter, and raising his little body into a sitting posture,
the dcaeo- shook his head and communed with himself.
"P'raps you would'also 'admiren to shake up the sod and'turn me


412          WIDOW G OLDSMITII's DAUGIITER.
under that, but we will put off that little tea-party a while, IProv-
idence permitting. You can't despise a lazy man, ma'am more
than I do a scolding woman. What does Solomon .say?  ' Her
feet take hold on.Hell, and her way goeth down to the pit,' and
I agree with Solomon. I know it's so."
At this point of .his toilette and his meditations, the Deacon
stopped to chuckle, and so intense was his relish of the fun, that
his shoulders went up to his ears, and his eyes disappeared among
the wrinkles, till he opened them to wink shyly at his gold sleeve-
buttons. Now what do you suppose was the subject of the lov-
ing husband's mirth. He was recalling his will! He was thinking
how he had fixed his help-meet ; tied her up and fastened her for
life. The document was drawn by. Esquire. Hitchcock, as strong
as it could be, duly signed and attested, and safely locked in the
Gonecusset vault, with the bonds, mortgages, and title deeds which
gave it value. He appetizingly recited it to himself.
I give and bequeath to my wife, Silence, the use of ten thousand
dollars, during her life, to be forfeited if she marries, and, at her
death it shall be divided between the Gonecusset Academy and
the Stone Church, as a perpetual fund. The interest to be ap-
propriated by the trustees according to their best judgment. In
case of my wife Silence's second marriage, it shall be 'immediately
applied as-above.
Only men and Deacons could stoop to make such wills, a woman
would never descend to such a deed. They are getting quite too
common of late, and are an undying disgrace to their authors.
There are no words to express the small mean injustice which
deprives the faithful wife of what she has helped to earn and to
keep. Why not burn her on the funeral pile at once. It seemed
almost aos if the Deacon would ha-ve liked to die so as to enjoy
his joke.
There ! Miss Williams," said he, emphasizing with the Jhair-
brush. "You had better mind your p's and q's, or you'll be over-
taken like a thief in the night as you may say seemingly."
Just at this point, the Deacon was interrupted by his weaker
vessel, who threw open the door, and called out:

WIDOW 'GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTERR.     413

" Air you coming down, or air you not! That's what I want
to know."
"In a second, my dear. In one jiffy !" answered the Deacon,
but she startled him so, tha t he dropped the hair-brush and jumped
as if shot, and got hastily into the residue of his garments, be-
neath her severe eyes, which covered, all his motions, like a search
warrant. He was fond of browbeating his wife, but he found it
safer to have the lecture out by himself, as it saved all unprofita-
ble recriminations, but if he did not crow very loudly on his own
dunghill, he made up for his enforced silence, among his Gone-
cussets, and he knocked off little ends from their wages, and took
it out of them in a hundred ingenious ways, and harangued =them
with vast stateliness and dignity.
Mrs. Williams, seeing what a bright, active, wide-awake girl
Sonsie Eagan was, and how tidy and smart she looked in her new
clothes, was seized with an ardent desire to do something for her,
and how so well could she aid her as by taking her into the bo-
som of her family.
" She can do all the waiting' and running, and the arrants, and
lots of work besides, if she is kep up to it ; and i'll see that she
don't cost me much ; I can rig her up in Mary Ann's old duds,
what the Jew peddlers won't buy, and I reckon I'll get the cost
of her keep out of her, and I shouldn't wonder if a little more:''
She had not made her call upon Ruth yet, in her quality of
Deaconess, and she dressed herself in her best -one fine day, and
presented her portly person at the Horse-Shoe, and was admitted
by Sonsie herself, who took in her proportions and her apparel,
and made a mental estimate of her, with the sharpness she had
acquired by her -street' practice.  The Deaconess stated her
errand with the girFs eyes fixed upon her, 'and when she
made a prospective offer of wages in a year or two, and ad-
ded: " which of course you can't afford, Miss Blair,"being as
your man is only one of our work-folks," Sonsie turned her face
from one to the other with a queer grin on it, which seemed. al-
most like a mental comparison of the two ladies, who were so
totally opposite in appearance and manner; and then she 'hugged


414           W  DOWGOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTERR.
and kissed several chuckles into Pigeon's neck. Mrs. Williams
added this finishing remark with peculiarly spiteful appetite, for she
hadbeensput- out that very day .at seeing Ruth and her boy riding
past in Sabrina Bradshaw's pony curricle,,and the three enjoying
each other hugely. And she .knew her to be awelcome guest in
the Roaring River families, where all her money and her preten
tions had not as yet gotten her a foothold. Ruth foolishly red-
dened at her coarse malice; (she would 'have counted it fun a
few months ago,) and. she had two minds to refuse altogether
to part:with Sonsie. She was attached to her,.,and found her
great help with Pigeon, who doted on her; but she reflected that
Mrs.;Williams had but spoken the truth;.she could not afford a
servant, and she was ashamed of the secret bitterness the avowal
brought to her. Sonsie adapted herself so readily to'circumstan-
ces, .and with such 'bold confidence in her own powers, that she
did not fear her capacity for pushing herself forward, and taking
her own part if need be. Therefore she resigned her .to Dame'
Williams' tender mercies, resolving to keep an eye upon her,, and
bring her away if she fared. too hardly among the old and young
barbarians of that household. She had a good motherly talk with
her.
"One thing you may be" sure of, Sonsie ; I shall always be
your friend while you are a good girl, ..and that I hope will be
always."
"Indade, Mrs. Blair," said Sonsie, characteristically, her arms
on her hip n;her favorite attitude ; "when I. do anything I blush
for, it's far away from your .swate eyes that I'll hide myself. I1
don't pretend to be as innocent as a lamb; I know there's wick- .
edness walking about on two legs; maybe I'm wrong, but it seems
to me that the. misery is to blame for almost all of it.  I think
everybody would'like to be good and true if they had the chance;,
I know all the Irish girlswould anyhow, (a mischievous twinkle
inher eye pointed her-remark,) and 'tis, meself will be the good
friend to you, Mrs. Blair. You know, the little tale you read me
3out of Pigeon's- picturesbook;;. though you are not a bit like a
hon, because it's a tender dove that you. are intirely, it's meself

WIDOW. GOLDSMIT 'S :DAUGHTER.           -415a
that'il be the good little mouse to you. Me new mistress is a fine
large lady, and I'll get lots, of teachin' out of her; she's got an
awful eye and a big fist, but it's just meself that's.not afraid of
her at all at all. You don't need me now, but an Irish heart
never forgets true kindness, and I'll be con ing to kape the house
for ye. I've niver a friend but ye that's the valie of .a sup of
crame, and I'll be a credit to yes yet. I'm not goin' to stay on
t' e peor little- bit that I am now always ; it's idication that I'll be
after gettin',. somehow."
And so, with a brave heart, in her breast and a tear in her
honest blue eye, Sonsie kissed Pigeon one fine morning, and with
all her worldly gear tied up in a very small bundle, she turned
her back upon the, friendly shelter of the Horse-Shoe, and made
ready to do battle with the world on her.own account once more.
She felt a childish pride in living in a great house, and studied its
appointments with curious interest; and it would have done you-
good to see her throw open the parlor .door to visitors. If she
had. owned the place she could not have looked better .satisfied.
She was soon =installed in a round of occupations which kept
her faculties employed to the utmost. Mrs. Williams' service was
no joke; she knew so well by actual experience how much work
could be accomplished in a given time, and, .was so resolute that
her help should come up, to her ideas, that they hado use all the
strength nature had bestowed upon them,.and they laid weary
heads upon their pillows, when their day's tasks were finished.
Mrs. Williams enjoyed, taking it out.of Bridget and Sonsie as
thoroughly as the Deacon. did out of his Gonecussets. Bridget
grumbled and .growled, and slammed the.doors,,,and burned the
eatables, but little Sonsie danced and sung, as merry as .a lark, as
soon as her mistress' back was turned, and was, full of jibes and
fun all day long. She amused and humanized the young barba-
rians with her tales, where glib humor and tender pathos mingled
in startling combinations; and her true honest eyes were often
filled with tears when the darlings of her stories were suffering,
(they were always children,) and she had the right "to gar hersel'
great wi' her an fiddle."


416        wIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.                              W

She had a stand-up -fight with sweet Master Baxter, of the
speckled countenance, and warty paws, in which her early street
training stood her in good stead, and she taught him in a thorough
and well punctuated lesson to mind his own business, and shielded
the younger ones.from his brutal tyranny.
"You'd better go back to gathering up 'swill, paddy whack,"
said he, after an'encounter in which he had decidedly the worst
of it.
"Indade, then, an' if I do, it's, yourself is the very bit of nasti-
ness I'd scrape up first of all and get yes clean out of the way;
but the swate illegant pigs would niver ate ye at all at all, and
d'ye mind that same, honey."
Baxter went bawling to his mother, and when she brought Son-
sie to book for beating her son, she replied:
"I'mnot engaged to take pounding for part of me education;
it's tiecooking that I'm to learn, wid ye but."
She ran all the'errands, and after a few blunders, in which her
good-humor bore easily the laugh she caused, her shrewdness was
rarely at fault. Sent one morning to market, the man asked her
what sort of a piece she wished.'
She didn't tell me to get raw or lean, but you must leave ot
the bones, anyhow."
The hearty laugh which greeted her, gave her a lesson to abide
by the letter of her instructions afterwards.
"onsie" was the name ofteneet repeated in the house; it was
a spell with which to conjure all sorts of things above and below.
She began to clean the boots, and Bax came and grinned at her,
while she whistled a jig and scrubbed for dear life, and called her
names; but Dame Williams said "the men-folks might clean their
own hoof/ers; she wasn't going to keep a girl for that ;" and
Baxter was forced to resume his occupation, much to his disgust.
He tried to pummel Sonsie's head with the blacking-brush, but
failed, and got his own well polished instead.
In spite ofPhindrances, Sonsie would get on; she leaned all
that Bridget could teach her,"she' swept so that her martinet of a
mistress could find no fault, and she scrubbed her rosy cheeks,

(well filled out and plump now,) under the pump, and applied
herself to pot-hooks and hangers in the evening, which she coaxed
Mary Ann to set for her ; and spelled out all the children's prim.
ers. Thanks to her cheerful, elastic temperament, which rose
above trifles, and laughed at vexations, even Miss Brandon
could not fatigue her, and she was as expert in taking it out of
people as either her host or hostess. Mrs. Williams: called up
her help early in the morning, on principle, (she said.)
"It's a drefful 'had habit for girls to lay a-bed, especially help.
They ought to 'get up and read the Testament, if they haven't
got anything better to do ;" but she generally found something for
them without recourse to the Testament.
Sonsie was up at day-dawn all the long June days, working in
the garden and weeding the flowers, labor of which she made
play. It seemed as if the posies nodded to her, and loved -her,
and laughed with her. She got a whole apron-full of roots and
bulbs, which she conveyed to the Horse-Shoe, and she made a
bed and planted them before anybody was up, regarding them as
spoils from the Philistines. You see she had a little lost the dif-
ference between meum and tuum in her Bohemian existence,.and
looked upon flowers as the gift of the good God to all his chil-
dren. When Ruth, instead of being pleased with her labor,
looked very grave, and pointed out: her sin, she, was entirely
crest-fallen, and pulled up the whole plantation ruthlessly, and
carried them back, and went straight and boldly to her mistress
and confessed her fault, and took her scolding, and was thereafter
scrupulously exact.
The meals at the Deacons were not.the gayest re-unions imag-
inable. The six children came frowzy and noisy ; whatever the
young fry could reach they helped themselves to, and what they
could not so readily come at they poked after, standing on their
chair-rounds; and in their fishing they often upset slight obstacles,
such as salt-cellars and tea-cups.
Belle Brandon, who speculated upon the Williams dulce dorum
as a retiring-place to be kept in abeyance, and who liked her sur-
roundings well appointed, and was really capable of managing a

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S , DAUGHTER.      41,7


418

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

household if she'put herself to it, threw out some hints on the
subject of-a waiteress, and offered to induct Sonsie into her duties.
Mrs. Williams nimbly consented, and the girl was fitted toa long
white apron, tied around her neck, and Belle found her an apt
scholar, and her sense of the ludicrous was as keen, and her in-
tense relish of the fun of her mistakes as exquisite as her teach-,
er's ; for instance, she never got over bringing the dust-pan and
hearth-broom to brush the crumbs, one company dinner, before
she had learned the use of the silver scraper, about the French
name of which Mrs. Williams was quite in the dark.
The young Williamses had been left behind in the family
scramble after elegance, and they needed more teaching than she
did, the elegance being a company parade, mostly. They still ate
their dinners often with the table against the kitchen wall, stand-
ing up to it, elbowing and pushing,-and not unfrequently exchang-
ing fisticuffs, and getting treated to a promiscuous boxing all
around from the maternal, who, when the fun got too fast and
furious, was wont to come down upon them like a wolf, on the
fold.   '
.I do believe my young ones are wuss than anybody's elses," she
would say, not relishing the crop of weeds she was reaping in
place of the loving-kindness and gentleness she might have sowed
and didn't.
On this particular morning of lowering clouds and dismal fore-
bodings, the olives all seemed to exert themselves to be especially
numerous, and the maternal scolding only added to the hubbub,
Belle, who always made it a point to be late to breakfast, where
the hostess would bear it, was not down yet ; and the Deacon
swallowed his fried mush in silence.
"I declare, you ain't 'fit to live amongst human bein's; you
ought:to have a trough along of the pigs. There, Bax! why don't
you put your foot on to't ?  Settin' there, layin' on your elbows !,
There ain't a bit of manners in you; you must take after your
pa's folks."
"I should say ma was a putting her foot into it now. Why
don't you speak up, pa? I shan't let my wife sass me that way.
Women ain't no great 'shakes, no how."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

419

The Deacon pretended to be plunged in devout meditation, but
the children struck up an aggravating giggle, which Mary Ann
vainly tried to squelch, glancing fearfully at her mother. Tall as
she was, she came in now and then for a little discipline, when it
was flying about; and Payson shied a fried potatoe at Sonsie,
which missed its aim, and plumped into pa's coffee-cup.
" Shet up! every one of you ! Anybody'd think this house was
a bedlam.
"Jes' so, ma, that's a fact ; anybody'd think our house was a
bed room," mimicing his mother's voice, thinking himself safe
out of her reach; but Baxter had miscalculated, and forgot the
long iron spoon with which she was ladling out the mush. It was
brought home to him with a whack, which made him jump, and
pushing back his chair so as to send it over with a crash, he dash-
ed out, breathing out threatenings and slaughter. This charming
little episode had the effect to calm the others, and silence reigned.
As they were about leaving the table, Baxter returned swinging
a dead fowl by the leg.
"Look a-here, pa!. If this ain't darned mean. I'll kill that
old tom-cat the first time I catch him out anywhere. My biggest
rooster, and a real burry-pouter, besides. I'll rainbow him; I'll
find out what his skin is stuffed with."
"I think plain duty calls me to step round and speak to widder
Goldsmith, my dear, on this subject, as you may say. This is a
trespass, a subject for damages ; a fine idea truly, if we've come
to the pass of not being allowed to raise fowls. under our own
vine and fig-tree, so to speak, seemingly, in this christian land of
liberty. Oh well, ' we are all a band of brothers, we tarry but, a
night.'"
"This rooster was fit to bile," replied his wife, feeling of the
defunct chicken's ribs, and jerking out a feather or two. "Of
course they'11 have to pay for't, if you can fix it on to the old cat
killin' on't."
"What are you talking about, ma? didn't I see the varmint
with my rooster in his mouth ?  I shied a stone at him, but he
wouldn't drop him till I got most up to him; I thought how't he
was goin' to fight me ; I wish I'd broke his leg for him."


420         WOW GOLD      TH'S DAUGHTER. WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

" It's a shame ! pity to lose it. You might take it down to old
Miss Pettingill, she'd make a dinner out on't with a piece of pork.
You need'nt let on the cat killed it, she might spleen again it if
you did. Now I look at it, I guess it's been a failin some time;
'taint so drefful fat, and its back is kinder twisted ; but t'will do
well enough for the old maid, she has to scrimp considerable."
Catching Sonsie's eyes fixed upon her very enjoyingly, she
added: "Not but what I'd cook it myself, only 'twould'nt be a
moufull for my family. Come Bax, start along, and go right to
school from there."
"You must be sick ! Do you think I'm going to paddle way
down the flats with that thing? I'd smile to see myself."
" Well Sonsie, you shall run. I like to-be charitable when I
can as well as not, and. a chicken is a chicken, if the cat did kill
it."
Deacon Williams brushed his hat up-stairs in his bed-room.
His wife did not allow him to use the fine brush which was kept
for show on the rose-wood hat-stand in the spacious hall. He
went out of the back door. His wife said she "could'nt abear to
see everybody racin and tearin through the front hall, wearing
out things, when the back door was more convenierter, and a
good stun walk all round the house."
So the deacon meekly departed by that portal.' Sometimes he
thought he did not have the full amount of enjoyment out of his
elegant mansion, for the plan of which he paid the architect five
hundred dollars ; but there was no help for it, and he compensated
himself by the snuggest of offices at the foundry, where there
were easy chairs and all sorts of conveniences.S
The deacon was a pillar in the church, but he was a thin little
man, so meanly weazened that he absolutely disliked George
Blair, because of his splendid physique and tremendous propor-
tions. Nevertheless he made the most of himself, and pulled up
his shirt collar as he paused at the widow Goldsmith's door.
" Good-morning, ma'am," said he, taking off his hat and bring-
ing his hair carefully forward over the bald place ; "fine still

morning, dropping a little,.but we need rain. There is also a
lamentable spiritual dearth in the midst of us."
" So there will be till the session stirs round and gets rid of
the backsliders. dan't look for no revival with all them in it."
Though the widow talked pious, she was armed to the teeth.
She smelt business, and well knew that she needed all her facul-
ties awake when she dealt with the deacon.
"Searching discourse last Sabbath, widder. Dr. Perfect is a
great preacher, as you may say."
"About the average, I should consider." She was fresh from
the thunders of the Great Tribulation, and considered Dr. Perfect
as very small deer indeed.
Finding that he should get no help from the widow, the deacon
launched at once into the momentous object of his visit, which
he pompously set forth with many words. "Now; ma'am, what
shall we do about it?"
" Kill the critter, deacon, if you can. Pizen won't do it, for
I've tried it myself. He's got more'n nine lives, I believe."
" We will try to find out where he keeps a few of them, ma'am.
My Bax is a Nimrod with his gun, and perhaps a ball will do the
business," replied the deacon with neighborly jocoseness. " I am
glad to find you so reasonable ; we won't say anything about the
fowl already killed, unless you would feel better to change off for
one of yours ; some would, we are all 4 band of brothers, as you
may say, seemingly. Good-morning, ma'am. We must not be
slothful workers in the vineyard."
" Just hold on one minute, deacon. I've been wanting to speak
to you some time. I suppose you know that your Bax put
Creampitcher's eye out he-aving stones at her ; a very valable
cow, deacon, worth at least a hundred dollars, and the sale of her
is about 9pilte. Of course you expect to pay damages. I shall
lay 'em at fifty dollars at least."
" How do you identify my son as the.individual who committed
the action. She might have run against suthing somewheres."
" I see him myself. I catched him whalin her down in the
lane ; his dog had holt on her, and he was layin'on with a club.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      421


422          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
If it had'nt been for scandal I'd have brought it right before the
church. I've been waitin for you to call, as you never paid no
attention 'to the message I sent you."
"Message, ma'am; I never got no message. (The widow
knew better.) I'm in a hurry now, I can't stop any longer. I
promised to meet a party down.:at the office. Some time I'll in-
quire into the thing.  Good-morning, ma'am, good-morning.
Don't let me. keep you any longer. I know you are no idler in
the - vineyard. Your good. works follow you. Your name is
savory in the church. I noticed your contribution in the last
Herald. Well, we are all a band of brothers, as you may say."
Out under the great-tulip-tree, whose broad leaves were a per-
feet -shelter from the rain, sat Master Chandy, in his shirt sleeves,
with his guitar on the rustic table before him, and his fly-book in
his hand. He was fitfully whistling little snatches from "The
Sleigh Bells," and preparing to go up to Craigenfells and spend:
the morning with Bertha, and escort her down to the Sewing
Society.
" Good-morning, deacon," he called out rather irreverently.
"Good-morning, sir," replied that dignitary, somewhat stiffly.
Chandy's youth was as disagreeable to him as George's muscle.
" Come .and sit down, deacon. T is is as pleasant a place as
you will find of a warm morning, I'llengage. I think it 'is going
to clear off, I thought I saw the sun lust now."
"I cannot stop, sir. Idling may suit boys, but it won't do for
men of my stamp. We don't look about for pleasant places, sir,
we search for fulcrums, and we move the world, sir. Enterprise,
and skill, and money, sir !"
"Just so, deacon, and very neatly expressed ; but hold on.
Did'nt I hear you speaking about my sister's Mephistopheles ?"
" No, sir. I hav'nt mentioned any such article that I am aware,
of," replied the deacon, feeling of his bald head.
" But I heard you. You took on your lips the name of her
Grimalkin, her familiar, her catus domesticus, yclept Rainbow."
"Oh, you refer to the old tom-cat that has been killing Bax-
ter's fowls. I was speaking to your worthy mother, as you may

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      423

say, about that rascally animal. He has been committing tres-
pass, young man ; he is given up to justice, weighed in the bal-
ances and found wanting, sir."
a" Should'nt be at all surprised if hehad, deacon ; but there's a
curious fact I'd like to mention to you. Rainbow has, as you so
facetiously observed, nine lives-make it fifteen if you like. Now
the :point is this: every one of his lives are so interwoven with
may sister's comfort and pleasure, that I don't believe it would be
healthy for anybody to meddle with him. Indeed, I shall take
any such meddling as a personal affront to myself, and shall settle
the account accordingly. If he vilely trespasseson your poultry-
yard, just send the bill to' me."
" Certainly, Chandos ; very right, very proper. You are a
most 'worthy and promising young person. I have no doubt you
will overcome your inertia sufficiently to make your mark some
day."
"I shall certainly leave my mark on anybody who meddles
with my sister's pet. You can mention the fact to any one whom
you think it will interest."
" Gool--morning, Chandos."
" But I say, deacon, how about Creampitcher ?"
"I don't know anything about it, sir," said the deacon, edging
off.
" Come, deacon, sit down.' 'The day is ours, the bloody dog is
dead. "
The deacon glanced uneasily in search of the defunct animal,
and answered-
"'Impossible, sir; a vast amount of business, awaits me at the
Gonecusset office."
" Why, deacon, you remind me of 'the lawyer who urged his
friend to take a pleasure trip with him. ' I can't,' said the friend ;
'I shall lose a thousand dollars if I do.'. 'Oh well, Tom,' re-
plied the lawyer, "what's the use;, you can't -take -it with you
when you die, and if you could it would all melt.'"
" What do you mean, sir ?" exclaimed the deaconvery red in
y' P"


424        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER..

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       425

"Oh, I leave the application to your wisdom; but I say, just
wait for me a minute till I fetch my skimmer, and I'll walk at far
as the stable with you. I want to tell you about the dog fight
yesterday. You see, Jan Vedder has got a bull-terrier. He calls
him Deacon. He's an ugly cuss-tomer, (don't look put out, I-
joined it together with a hyphen all right and regular.)  Yes,
Deacon is as ugly as the Old Harry, but he'll hang to a bone, and
he's dewlaped like a-bull."
"Excuse me, Chandos ; I don't want to listen to such trash.
What do you suppose I care about dog-fights? I never did.
When I was a boy they used to tie tin kettles to their tails to see
them run. I never could. I always felt for the dog."
" Very virtuous indeed of you, deacon. Well, you see, Jan-
Oh, you won't stop ! Well, bye-bye. I'm sure to be at your
shin-dig this evening; we intend to give you a benefit."-
After the deacon had walked away, with his tall hat set per-
pendicularly on his head, and his toes  squared out, naughty.Chandy
stuck his feet on to the table, and laughed for at least ten minutes.
Mrs. Goldsmith performed a contortion, which she was in the
habit of consideringa smile, as she shut the door on her visitor,
and went -back to her churning.
" Tight !" said she; "tight as the bark on a tree. I reckon
I'll get something out of-him. I shall kill Creampitcher for a
beef critter in the fall, any way."
Chris slipped out and ran down the garden path and called
"Rainbow." She proposed to- shut him into her room for the
day; she could not bear to think of his being at Bax Williams'
disposal.- Already had she taken her sleek four-footed friend into
her confidence. The next morning after the horse-back party, he,
came jumping and leaping upon her pillow ; he purred and licked
her face, and patted it with his great double paw, carefullycur-
tailed of claws, and she awakened- with a smile, and. drew him
into her arms and kissed him.
" Oh, Rainbow ! I'm the happiest girl! I've such a friend, so
noble, so good, so clever; such a matchless gentleman,.Rainbow !
and he loves me dearly ; he told me so, or I would never have

dared to think it ; and I'm going to be married to hin," (this last
in a whisper.)
Rainbow disengaged himself from her imprisoning arms, sat
down close to her, and washed his face all over; and she lay, her
-cheek ii her hand, \looking at him, and thinking her pleasant
thoughts, till her mother's shrill tones recalled her to the fact that
she must wait a little longer before her real life should begin.
She felt as if Rainbow shared her secret, which she had not
told to anybody, and she loved him more than ever. She could
,not open her heart to Chandy, kind as he was getting, his love of
fun and teazing was too paramount for that.; and she would have
as soon gone, out to the great gray rock in the garden, as to her
mother, with her feelings, either of love or sorrow. So she. hugged
Rainbow, and poured her hopes into his ears, for lack of a better
friend, and truly a safer repository of a secret she could scarcely
need.
She found him now, curled up in his favorite bower under the
tall asparagus-a perfect cat paradise, cool, quiet, and sheltered.
He came out at her call, stretching and yawning, and in answer
to her invitation he sprang to her shoulder, and curled his length
around her neck, so as to leave his paws free to caress her face.
Fearless, rollicking with good humor, his great tail waving in the
soft air, like a benevolent serpent. She walked among therfour-
o'-clocks, the pare-yellow squashes, the rank tomato vines, the
sweet thyme and sage beds, plucking thoughtfully at the grape
runners, and so on close to the garden fence, she heard voices-a
loud, rasping laugh, and shrill,. childish tones, scolding and af-
frighted.
" You shan't ! I won't ! Go away, wicked, cruel boy ; I hate
you ! Oh, Dick ! Peter ! Chris ! Somebody !"
Chris parted the bushes and looked over in the angle ; she saw
Pauline Bradshaw, as close as she 'could be to the fence, her
great eyes extended, her hands thrown up, a picture of terror and
courage, and cowering behind her, too frightened even to scream,
little Gracie Jenkins, hei very lips colorless, while close in front
of them, and holding them prisoners by his hateful bulk, stood


oDWIOW GOLTaI 's .DA,,g.TE  ,427

Baxter Williams. A. small writhing snake was- twisting about
his warty hand, clutched by the tail, and in its tortured gyrations
it struck the children on their faces, arms, and necks with its cold
slimy head, while he grinned. in intense enjoyment of their agony.
Now if.Rainbow had a-weaknesA,;it was for killing.snakes; he
bit them from head to tail, perhaps it was to preserve his teeth;
I have heard of people doing it for ,that. Rainbow rose up and
looked a moment, then made a noiseless leap .on to the fence,
thence to Master Baxter's head, and running down his extended
arm, as if it had been.a causeway, he seized the reptile and drop-
ping lightly to the ground, he dashed away, leaving, the aston-
ished boy, with.the ugly grin, on his unwashed countenance, and
his empty fist extended. Chris laughed merrily in-her covert,
and Baxter sought her with his eyes.
"That's-.,a blamed mean, sneakin' cat of your'n, Christabel
Goldsmith, and a'nasty thief to boot; and I'm a-goin' to kill him,
fast chance. Pa says how't I may, and I will, whether or no."
The two children had shot out from.their durance, as soon as
their jailor turned around, and nowin safety, Pauline stopped to
scold.
" You shan't kill Rainbow !" she shouted. "I love him!"
"You do ? good ! I'll just tell youwhat I'll do. I'll slit his
ears, and chop off his tail, and take a gad and whale him, and
then I'll tie him down and.stick him all over with pins, and then
I'll hang him. Now then, missy, with your fine slippers and your
lorn curls, what do you think of that ? And you can't help your.
self, either ; loving the old tom cat won't keep it from hurting himl."
"You are a wicked, cruel, speckled, warty boy, and I hate you.
I wouldn't=be you for anything. .I should think you would be
afraid to say your prayers, you are such a horrid wretch !" and
Pauine burst into tears of rage and grief, seeing which,- Baxter
performed a:hornpipe of.delight.
" Good, good ! .that's bully ! I love to plague little girls and
make-'em cry. It's better than, liquish."
"-Come, Pauline, dear," said Chris, afraid to speak above% her-
breath,.she was so angry. ",You children had better come inside

the gate, and perhaps Baxter will be kind enoughto-goway.,I
cannot think he will be so cruel as to: hurt poor Rainbow."
"But I will, though; you'd better say poor chickens; the old
beast's been a killin' of 'em; I found fifteen of 'em  dead this
morning, worth half a dollar apiece. If I won't choke : your old
tom cat for:you, you bet."
" Fifteen!" said Chris. ." Why I heard your father .tamping to
Chandos about it this morning, and I am positive he said one."
ierdon't know;nothing about, my chickens, father don't. I
only let 'em see one; there was fifteen, ,I swear there was:,I
counted 'em."
"I'm very sorry," said Chris;-"you ought not to lose. your
chickens. If you are sure Rainbow did the mischief, though I
can hardly believe it, he never touches my poultry, but if you
are sure, I'll do my best to make the loss up to you. I've a brood
of black Polands just come off, there are ten of them, you may
take them if you like, and I hope you won't hurt Rainbow," she
added, trying to get comfort from the unpromising face before her.
She sighed at the sacrifice. she was about to make to her sense
" of justice, for she had been up at day-dawn admiring her chick-
ens; she intended them as a parting gift to Ruth Blair, who doted
upon fancy fowls.
Baxter drew his-coat sleeve across his face to hide a grin.
" Well, I don't know as it'll pay, but I'll take 'em; as like as
not they'll all die, but I'll take 'em."
Chris and the children went to the hen-house and gathered
up the cunning little balls, and took their purple-black mother
out of her coop, and Bax lost no time in getting away with his
booty. When he had gone a piece up the street, he set down the
basket and looked in and counted.
'Golly, if that ain't about the jolliest go as I ever heard tell
on. Sold, the whole kaboodle on 'em, pa and all, and got a hen
and chickens for it. Oh, crackey ! I'd let Steve's dog tackle
another rooster, if I could make it pay like. this."
After all, I don't know as Master Baxter was so very much to
blame for his lax notions about honesty ; he was continually get=

11-1

1 i

42.6J      WIflOW. GOLDSMITH  DAUGHTER..


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

ting lessons on the subject among the Gonecussets and at home.
He had one the week previous to this affair, which still possessed
his mind. He was sent to Toptown in the car, and when the
conductor came along for fares he offered a half-ticket. The man
looked at Iim doubtfully, and inquired his age. "I'm under
eleven," answered Bax ;" and though the 'conductor remarked
"You'r -ather a large boy for your age," he took the half-ticket,
and passed on. Then Bax took off his hat and chuckled, and
admired a great 11 which he had pinned into the crown. He
related the occurrence at home, and lis father laughed as at a
good sharp joke; and Bax heard him retailing the fun among his
confreres n the office afterwards.

CHAPTER TWE,NTY-SEVENTH.
A CHAPTER OF ACCIDENTS-NO INSURANCE IN THE TRAVELERS.
THE Deacon, who kept a sharp oversight of all the business
of his company, looked into their variety store, after his parting
with Chandos.
There was a great deal of grumbling among the employees,
who were forced to be purchasers at this store, and get cheap ar-
ticles at dear rate, or lose their chance of employment; and
they were talking up a co-operative, which made the Deacon
squirm every time he heard of it, though Captain Slocum said it
was a capital plan: " Each one for themselves," he added, "let
heir quilt." But the , Deacon didn't approve the pattern of the
quilting, and showed his spite against George Blair, who was for-
ward in the enterprise, in divers little ways.
The worthy church pillar stood by with the air of a connoiseur
while the clerk tried to sell a chest of tea at a bargain, and when
he succeeded, and the purchaser carried off his prize in huge
satisfaction, the Deacon rubbed his hands and said nasally:
"Well, boys, I must say youdone fust rate with that-are tea;
it wasn't wuth a red cent, seemingly, as you may say ; I expected
we should have to lose the whole batch of it; after the old cat kep
her kittens in it; I didn't know as they was there till they got
their eyes open. You didn't ought to be so careless, boys; it
isn't discharging your duty to your employers. There, Jason,
how manytimes must I tell you not to fetch them there cloths up
close to that winder, and bring out all the spots. If folks are a
mind to take it up themselves, all right;:if they buy it where it
is, it is their look out, not ours; they can read the card, no goods
(429)

428

.

{

'I


430        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

exchanged. You'll never move the lever that moves the world
unless you learn to take advantage of all the' chances."
The Deacon- pulled on his gloves ; he paused with a grieved
countenance ;n the grocery department.
"Timothy," said he, sadly, "I'm afraid you haven't measured
them eggs. I know you have'nt."
.      He tookdu one aid, placed itupon a.neat conitrivancChe prid.-
ed himself upon inventing. It was a wooden frame with holes in
it placed 'over a' pan -of saw-dust- the:- eggs which refused to go
through the larger orifice were for his family use; those which
took' the plunge, he had privately instructed Tim to -set aside for
the other~Gonecussets, and those, which slipped through the little
hole, for general retail. That young villain thrust- his tongue-
into his cheek, and winked at Jason while he put the embryo
chickens through their paces.
"If anybody comes to; see me, Timothy, tell 'em I'm gone to
eleven o'clock prayer-meeting ; in the path of dooty, as you may
say;seeningly'; we are pilgrims, we' seek' a city."
"Go'ahead, old 'stick-in-the-mud, and you'll find one with a
brimstone lake in' the middle on't," said Tim, after the door closed
on' his 'superior.
Arrived at the lecture-room, where Mr. Growing was awaiting
him' with' plans for' the- new church edifice, and looking, pgor
man, very pal.e and tired; the Deacon entered with zeal into
the-young pastor's ideas, and' headed. the subscription list with a
handsome sum, and said,' rubbing- his hands, with' precisely the
same 'gesture he had -used in admonishing his clerks:
"Now, brother Growing, let's have a little season of prayer,"
and he was' affected to tears in his contrite confessions, and seemed
all 'broken down under a sense of his' unworthiness, and earnest
in begging for grace and help. He used such plenty of Scripture;
quotations -as showed his constant' study of the sacred writings,
though he perverted their, meaning occasionally, and might very
likely have realized Tim's prophecy, if he had' got literal answers
to his 'requests." "Oh jLord; let' the Prince of the 'power of the
air'come doWn and reign," prayed: he;"though he had no wish tq

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       431

raise the devil. "Let us trust Thee where we cannot trace Thee,"
was a part'of all his prayer, which often-recurred to Mr. Grow-"
ing's mind, and that earnest young laborer smiled in spite of him-
self, when his zealous co-worker ended his morning prayer with
this naive admission: " Oh Lord, we're so wicked we 'don't know
as you'll hear us, and we:e'en amost hope you won't," after ,hich'
he blew his nose, wiped his eyes, and took an affectionate 'leav&amp;
of the minister.
The preceding Thursday evening 'he had found this remarkable
passage in his Bible, which he read to' the brothers and' sisters:
"And Satan went out from  the presence of the Lord and- shot
Job with four balls;" now he6left the holy 'place and dived head
and ears into the schemes and labors of the Gonecnssets.
Thursday was Mrs. Goldsmith's- cleaning day, and iChandos'
being out'-of the way, Chris was kept at it, sweeping and dusting;
poking into all the corners, and pulling out things on purpose to
put them up again, and when dinner was over, and the dishes
washed, what with the heat-and the' hard work,' the poor child felt
very weary. As she went 'slowly up stairs, dragging her aching'
feet after her, the widow called sharply:
" I s'pose .I shajl have to trust you to lock up to-day; I don t
see why you need promise to wait for 'Bert7y Groenveldt."
-I :didnot promise, mother; Chandy arranged it to'suit him-
self, and ordered me to stop. He is to drive Bertha in from"
Craigenfells ; I 'am sure it is not material to me, I'd just as soon
stay at home enti ely."
"I dare say, just like your shiftlessness; never keep up to any
plan of usefulness ! but you won't stay, and=do you be ready'to
start the instant minute they land here ; I'rm a great mind to lock
up and tale you along now."
"As you please," answered Chris, indifferently. -She knew 'her
mother would not dare .to fasten Chandy out.
" When did my' son say he should be here ?"
" He said three o'clock, mother; but you know-'Chandy is not
very punctual,.and it isquite as likely'fto be four as thi-ee."
Go along:and cleap yourself up do, and'not-stick 'jabberin


432        wIDow GOLDSMITHa'S DAUGHTER.

f

on that stair and hindering me ; so inconsiderate, allers talking at
the wrong time," said the widow tartly, displeased that Chris
should remark upon her darling son.
Chris shut her door, and put up her hair very smoothly, (she
was going to be extremely nice and particular that day,) then she
took down her black satin dress and got out her thimble and silk-
to mend a zig-zag tear in the'skirt. Just as she was about to
commence, her eye fell upon "Die Donanlander," and she took it
up just for one little minutes to rest herself. Three o'clock struck
and she had not stirred a muscle. A merry voice calling up the
stair-case made her jump, and wake up to the fact that the time
had all flown, and her dress still lay on the floor, the zig-zag tear
grinning in her face ; and Chandos and Bertha were waiting for
her below. So with too easy recourse to her old "never mind"
-  habits, she put on the dress, pinning up the place, hoping it might
escape notice. She comforted herself that nobody minded about
her. Otho was away. She had seen him but once since the horse-
back party, when he had pointed her pencil for the Soyez lecture
.and only lingered to say good-bye. She fervently hoped that
madame would find Craigenfells too pleasant to leave, and that
everybody would sedulously attend to their own business, and let-
her slide into some obscure corner. She tied on the white apron,
Ruth's ,gift, and which she had never worn since that dear day up
at Uncle Alec's, patting it for the sweet memories it gave her, and
smiling at it, and down she wasted, already oblivious of the zig-
zag, such things so easily slid back among the trifles in her esti-
mation.
Chandy and Bertha seemed not in the least haste to set out,
but Chris knew well what manner of scolding she would get if
they delayed their appearance.
"Do hurry, Chandy, if you love me."
"iListen ! this castle hath a pleasant seat. The air nimbly and
sweetly recommends itself unto our gentle senses. Nevertheless,
I come, Grimalkin."
"Don't encourage this brother of mine to call me names, I en-
treat," said Chris, glancing in at the library door, and dropping a
curtesy to the bust on its pedestal.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              433
"Stay Chris, one thing is sure. I can't. stand this old satin
horror, much longer.  This inky cloak-thy customary dud of
solemn black, thy trapping and thy suit of woe.' I shall be
constrained to take this dress business into my own hands if mother
does, not rise and show herelf equal to her times."
"Don't speak of it, Chanclos."  Chris sidled carefully around,
so as to keep the whole side of her skirt next him. " Please be
quiet. Now that I am  really certain of going to school, I had
rather wait, and have all my things fresh and new, and I will
start fair, and see what I can do; besides all you could say would
be useless. Mother is more than usually set. I'm to wear my
old things till I go."
" I'm not certain of that. I generally intend to make it of use
if I take a matter up.
" Please don't, Chandy. I hate to be a bone for you two to.
quarrel over, and I am so happy. I don't mind my looks. I only
wish you would'nt make such a coil about them, dress seems to
me of such very minor consequence.
." A most fatal error, Chris. Bertha does not so regard her
adornings," he bowed flatteringly to that young lady, who was ex-
ceedingly dainty in a suit of delicate buff. "But Chris, you do
look happy, that's patent. The prospect of going to. school has
made you radiant. Kindled a fire in your eyes. I was observ-
ing you, yesterday. You step as if about to dance, and carry
your head like a Juno."
Chris turned away from her, brother, who was studying her,'
as if she had been a. statue, with a conscious blush, and .aid
hurriedly:
" Come Bertha,let's go, this brother of mine is getting personal."
"Well, I suppose I must," said Bertha, rising slowly, "ibut it is
,e cool and pleasant here. I hate to go away."
" You and I need not go, unless we choose, we'll tarry by the
stuff."
"Indeed you will not. You'll go, and directly too," said Chris,
decidedly."
' Well, I like- that ! ordering a fellow about.'' Chandy got


434          WIDOW GOLDSMITH $ DAUGHTERt..
lazily to his feet. " Needs must, I suppose, when somebody
drives."
Chris pushed them out before her, locked the street door, and
hung the great key upon her forefinger, which reminded her of
Nancy, and she immediately lost her own identity, and missed the
funny interchange of light talk between her companions, in follow-
ing that hapless wretch's dreary road till she saw- her a bruised
and bleeding corpse in the lonely garret : and then Sonsie's kiss
upon her hand recalled her to Roaring River.
The Sewing Society had materially changed in character since
we had the pleasure of meeting the Millville ladies at Mrs. Blair's.
The gatherings were now quite like full dress parties. Follow-
ing Miss Erandon's lead, who was an oi-acle among them, the
young spinsters wore their best, and- copied her style, and got
patronized or snubbed, as she happened to find convenient. Even
the 1Roaring River girls, Zoe, Sabrina, and the rest, were glad of
the opportunty to come out, as Chandy said, "in rings, gawds,
and conceits,"  To do Belle justice, she did not shirk the labor,
and kept Mary Ann up to it also, indefatigably, cutting out and
putting together fancy articles, intending as a recompense of re-
ward to preside at the Fair, the appointed time for which was
fast approaching.
Ioor Dame Williams had been in a state of fermentation all
the morning, what between her intense desire for display and
her dread that her handsome carpets might get injured. The
:day having settled down after twelve o'clock into a drizzle and
sizzle of the first water, Sometimes she thought she would shut
up her drawing rooms and confine the ladies to the back part of
the house, but as she had not invited any company since she had
hung her lace curtains, the longing to show them got the better
of every other consideration, aided by some artful suggestions
from Belle, who looked black enough, while economy seemed
likely to carry the day.
" It will do for a party, dear Auntie Willias ;" (she always
called her Auntie, when she wanted to wheedle her,) and it won't
cost' halfso much, and: our syveet, darling Mary An  can wear

WIDOW GOLDSMIITII'S DAUGHTER.            43
her new silk, and she is so pretty in it.. Do you know I was so
proud of her, the other day. 'I really think I love her as much
as if she were my sister by blood as well as adoption. I am sure
Mr. Brown is quite of my opinion, he will be here this evening
of course ; he's a' very aristocratic fellow. I hope he and Mr.
Hauxhurst will not come to coffee and pistols about Millithy
Nillithy. Such a belle as the dear child is getting. I always do
my best to show her off, and it takes tact to manage those things.
I flatter myself that 'I am. moderately supplied with that society
coin. The Roaring River girls are beginning to take to her, and
I intend she shall lead them all before I go. I don't know how
I can ever go, Auntie. I am so happy wi h you all."  She put up
her handkerchief, and quite overcome by her tender emotion, she
sobbed gracefully. Having given Mrs. Williams plenty of time
to say she could not part with her, and hearing nothing to that ef-
feet, she wiped her eyes. " I shall always come to you when I
please, shall I not,? this is one of my homes, Auntie."
"Idare say," replied the matron shortly. Belle's hints about
getting Mary Ann off had taken effect, and her mind was now
screwed into her preparations.
"Oh my more than mother, how I love you."   Belle floated
gushingly up to. her in an attitude she had been practising before
her mirror; and kissed her ripe cheek in a kind of dutiful rapture.
You marvel, here,. Sonsie,' said Mrs. Williams, getting rid'of
her artless adopted rather abruptly. " I shall hef to let em in I
do spouse, but you mind and have the house-cloth ready and wipe
up every speck of dirt, and if any of em wears their rubbers in,
do you put em right out again immediately. I'll keep out all the,
nastiness I can, if I do let em on to mycarpets."
The preparations got stormier and stormier, as they progressed.
Sonsie told Bridget she thought the mistress got out of bed-wrong
end first, to which Bridget growled a reply.,-
" Sorra a bit of a right end has she got at all at all. She's
breaking the heart of me all the day wid her crossing and rack-.
-' vat .                 a  T _ , .  .
inga wouldn't bide another minute if I haad'nt me sisters to get
over from t'auld countrie, and I can't abares to lose ~a day's wage,


WIDOW GOLDsMITH'S. DAUGHTER.

and the bitter famine akin skeletins of their pretty bones, while
they're watin."
" How many have you there to bring, and have the whole wid
ye ?"
"Its five half sisters that I have, Sonsie, me girl, and thank ye
kindly for enquirin, but I've never a whole one at all."
Mrs. Williams pricked up her ears, but could not catch the rin
of the conversation, she being in the pantry, mixing her crullers.-
She pointed her nose toward the fire place and snuffed energeti-
cally..
" You stop your gabbling, you Sonsie, and mind your spoons.
That fat's burning. Don't you know enough to run it off the
coals. Do step Bridget ! hef to take range by sunthing to see
you move. I should think your legs was made of lead.",
" Like Nebucudnizzers image," put in Sonsie parenthetically,
polishing her silver for dear life.
"I've a notion I shall some time or another show you the -stuff
me futs is made of," growled Bridget without stirring from' her
station at the sink.'
" Don't you hear me, you Irish huzzey," roared the Dame.
"Ohr yes, I hear, me ears is the ones for hearin."  Bridget
winked at Sonsie, who laughed among her spoons.
"Are you agoin to stir ?"
"As soons as I getsready, I'll stir lively, and I'll never budge
an inch before."-
"rWhen you get ready !" screamed Mrs. Williams, taking her
hands from the'dough, and glowering on her cook in astonishment.
"Yes honey, sure enough, them's me words,when Igets ready."
" Well, Bridget Malone, there's one thing-you'll do before you
get ready. Take your paws out of that dish-water and leave !
march !.trot ! out with you, pick up your feet lively."
"cYes manam, I give you warning. I'm engaged with Mrs.
Bisbee, ma'am. She's been begging of ie this ever so lrig..
It's thrue enough for t'auld dragon, Sonsie," she whispered; see-
ing the girls eyes fixed upon her. " I wish you a good day ma'am,
and a great deal of happiness, wid ye's cookin and scrubbing; and

436 '

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.             47
may the divil heat up his brimstone and fetch' ye away for the
very first bilin, .and my blessin go wid ye. Sonsie, I'll be gettin
ye a place. Yon murtherin old witch is ,not the mistress for the
likely girl ; you'll come right away out of this. The blackguards
of children will be spoilin afl the-swate ways of ye."
Bridget pounded up stairs, and in a few minutes she pounded
down again, firing off a few aggravating remarks as she banged
the -door, and she passed the windows laughing and tossing her
head in a high state of enjoyment. Long before noon the Dame
repented of her ebullition of temper. She got crosser and crosser
every moment. Mary Ann was called to the rescue, and poor
Sonsie had to bend to the work with double diligence and vigor,
but her ears ached with the scolding, and her willing little feet
could not run fast enough to please her task-mistress.
"Have hot water for them plates," ordered the sharp voice in
command.
" It is, hot as blazes, ma'am, it scalds the hands off me."
" No such thing, you little shirk. It ain't blood-warm, don't
even smoke."
" Try it yourself then, if it's the hate of your blood that ye call
it, mine does not run boilin," said Sonsie, blowing her red fingers.
"I will then," screamed Mrs. Williams, " Beast of a Paddy,"
she seized the girl's hands in her great powerful fists, and thrust
them down in the nearly boiling water, and held them there.
"Now then, sass me again will you."
Sonsie gave a sharp cry of agony, and struggled hard to free her
arms from the. powerful grip which held them. Splashing and
dashing, she flirted some of the liquid torment into the Dame's
eye, which caused her to let loose in a hurry, and apply her apron
to the suffering member, while sheaimed a smart blow at Sonsie's
head, and missed it, being nearly blinded, 'and hitting with less
than her usual precision.
Sonsie had borne plenty of sharp - words, as well as sundry
raps and pinches, which she good naturedly set down as part of
her teaching, and so highly did she appreciate the thorough per-
fection of The Danme's, inethod, that they all went for .nothing ;


438          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER,,.
now she set her teeth, and uttered no Word of remonstrance or
complaint, but flew to the water pail, and plungea her hands and
half parboiled arms in, up to the elbows.
"Oh mother, how could you !" exclaimed Mary Ann, her chalky
face turning brick color, her fears of her mother succumbing to
her indignation, "how .could you be so cruel."  She weptaloud
like a child, and made queer faces over her sorrow. Belle Bran--
don was standing by the ironing table smoothing out a dress, and
she turned around with the iron in her hand, and a look of disgust,
in her face ; she could play with feelings and mince hearts, but,
physical cruelty was abhorrent to her.
" Upon my word, Auntie, you ought to go South and have a
plantation. What a mistress you would be. I heard about one
who chained her cook eight feet from the fire place, and another
who had a pleasant way of smoothing out her servants- with hot
flat irons. You would invent something new, I'm sure. You are
such a nice manager. I'm going to study your method. 'Look at
the blisters on the-girl's fingers."
"Let me put some butter on your hands," said Mary Ann, hur-
riedly. "Don't tell anybody, Sonsie. - I hope she did'nt know
how hot the water was, I'm sure she could'nt. I'll show you that
Princess stitch you wanted to learn."  All this Mary Ann whis-
pered with her head close to Sonsie's, and her back to her
mother.
"Oh' it don't smart much, Miss Mary," spoke up the sufferer
cheerfully, her heart warming at the first kind word. "I can bear
it well enough."
".That dish water want so drefful hot," said the dame, dipping
her finger into it, and pulling it out again in a hurry.
Belle laughed as long as she thought her hostess would bear it,
and made some rather irreverent remarks abott getting accus-
tomed gradually to a higher temperature, and then applied the
oil of flattery to her rumpled feathers, and helped her finish up odds
and ends of preparation, in such fine style, as proved how capable
and efficent'she could be.
Mrs. Goldsmith was among the earliest arrivals. Prim and

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER:              439
methodical, she filled the office of first directress with praise-
worthy care and exactitude. Precisely as two hours told them-
selves off from the shining gilded clock on the top of which re-
clined two yellow girls in painfully lounging attitudes, (a center
ornament'of Mrs. Williams' highly carved mantel,) she seated her-
self in her chair of office. Stiff and rigid, with spectacles on
nose, she examined the articles finished since last society. The
members had formed a habit of taking home a piece of sewing to
accomplish in the interim between the meetings, at Belle Bran-
don's suggestion, who wished to bowl them along at top speed so
as to reach the Fair, where she proposed to shine a bright partic-
ular star. There was the usual amount of ripping out and doing
over, and this afforded Mrs. Goldsmith the highest gratification
'of which she was capable. Having smoothed, out a faint wrinkle
from her best bomibazine; and fastened her scissors to her side by
a cord, and sent them down with a run, condemned" to dangle,
"till dead,, dead, dead," she laid out her needle-book, emery-
bag, and thimble, glowering at each, daring it. to run away, and
took up the .finished articles, one by one, and twitched the gath-
ers, glared at the button-holes, plucked at the buttons and pried
open the seams, for some time without finding what she sought,
viz: some defect which should be legitimate subject for holy hor-
ror. At last her diligence was rewarded. A sleeve in wrong
side out.
" The lands sakes ! who done this ?  This sleeve t'other side
to. What a piece of work."  She held it up and glanced tri-
umphantly around the room.
." Christabel Goldsmith, is this shifless performance yours.?"
She brought the fierce glitter of her black orbs to bear upon' her
dreaming daughter. Seen through her spectacles they shone like
the eight thousand lenses the hairy spider has at command, and
had a wondrous effect,, for Chris started to-her feet as if hit by a
missile.
"I am afraid it is, mother," she said faintly. She had found
out her mistake too late, and meant to do it over 'before it was

-


440        WIDOW GOLDS1ITH's DAUGHTER.

discovered, but had entirely forgotten it. _ All the ladies stopped
talking and fastened their eyes upon the young culprit.
"What ever possessed you to stitch with such nasty thread?
I'm ashamed of you !'
"It kept breaking, mother, (it was some of a lot they had pur-
chased at the Gonecusset store, a great bargain,) and my hands
perspired so much," faltered poor Chris.
" Come here this instant minute ! I've took pains enough with
you,,toiling and learning of you early and late. You take that
to bits abeaut as quick as you can set your fingers a-goin."
Chris walked awkwardly across the room, every nerve quivering
with shame and mortification as she drew near ; hpr mother, eye-
ing her over, espied the frayed edges of the pinned-up tear in her
satin skirt.
"How'd you do that?"
"I caught it on the rose-bush," replied Chris, speaking low.
"Why upon airth did'nt you mend it before you come here to
disgrace me before folks. I've a great mind to catch holt and
lift it up and let everybody see it."
Chris moved nimbly out of arms-length. She knew her mother
was capable of such an exhibition of her faults, and would call it
proper discipline.S
"Don't, mother, please. I meant to do it indeed; but I was
so busy all the morning, and when I got through the work I was
tired and' sat down to rest a moment, and I sat too long. I'm
sorry."   .
"Humph ! sorry!  A nasty, triflin, shiftless creatur. You
won't never be good for nothing in this world nor the next another,
I don'tibelieve. There! do go along out of my sight. I've a
great mind to send you home now, before supper. [Chris' bright-.
ening face under this sentence made her change her mind.]  Set
down somewhers, do, and go to work. I do wonder 'what I've
done' that I must have such a trial sent onto me. You wear the
:flesh off of my bones."
Chris received the garment which her mother tossed, at her,
and walked back to her place in a kind of dull maze. She felt

WIDOW GOLDSiMITH'S DAUGHTER.            441
sure that everybody had heard the mild reproof, and must despise
her. She was hot and colg and faint, and then indifferent, and
just thought how she should like to drop away out of sight and
mind, and bent her head over her work, and ripped- away with
m chanical diligence.
Adeliza Euphetnia-Hitchcock, who still resented Chris' digni-
fied conduct at the Soyez lecture, where she had come off only
second best, Adeliza Euphemia, dear girl! tittered and bridled,
and exchanged a meaning look with the maternal Hitchcock, and
said-
"Did you ever, ma. Oh, forlornity !"
(Zoe, indignantly, to Sabrina,)-" Why don't she see to the
poor child's clothes herself ? My mother takes care of mine, and
I am older than she is. Howy I should like to rise up and call
her blessed ! Do look at her ! Is'nt she a nice looking article to
call 'Mama?' Ah, the very thought makes me chilly."
" Chris, dearest," said Bertha, who was sitting next her friend,
(that is, next the shell into which she had withdrawn herself,) as
,soon as the talk and scandal had recovered its pristine glow,
i Chris, dearest, come up into Belle's room and let me mend that
place for you before the.gentlemen come."
"No thank you," answered Chris .coldly, and somewhat un-
graciously. " I shall wear it as it is. Mother is right. I deserve
to be scolded. If I am very much"mortified, perhaps I shall re-
member."
a Why," said Bertha, hesitating and blushing, "why did you
not let me darn it before we came here ?  Half-an-hour could
have made no difference, and I should have been ever so glad."
"You mean why did I not do it. Well, I'll tell you, Miss
Groenveldt-(flashing out of her apathy)-I swept, and scrubbed,
and cleaned, from five o'clock this morning till dinner time, and
then wickedly allowed myself to take, up a book, and so forgot
that I must darn my only dress in order to be decent. You know
all about me, Bertha; you know what a choice wardrobe I have ;
but perhaps you don't know that Mrs.^Frederic Goldsmith's name
is in the Herald this month above her five hundred dollars- sub-

I

M


442        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

scription to the Colonization Society, and I've no cover for my
feet but those rags. I hav: mended those, (she thrust out her
worn Old rusty gaite'.)  There are tome slaves would like to
get free,:besides those who go to Liberia, and I'm wrong to say,
it, for, God willing, I'll soon turn my back on, my father's house,,
thanks to dear Chandy. But I really ought to have several pairs
of hands to be equal to all that is put upon me, and a saint's
temper, which you see I have not-got."
" But," said Bertha hesitatingly, (she was a little afraid of
Chris, whose state of mind seemed to her somewhat chaotic,) and
she laid her soft little hand with a light caress upon her own.
"But what will     somebody.say if he sees you thus ?"
"Whom do you mean ?"    A deep blush dyed Chris' face, and
she moved uneasily, and pushed the tear out of sight.
" Why, Chandos, of course !" replied Bertha, coloring in her
turn..
"Oh!" said Chris,.tossing her head. "He will bring out the
most cutting thing he can find in his Billy Shakes, and I shall be
very angry and fly out at him, and then I shall go afterwards and
tell him I was wrong and he was right, and beg his pardon, and
we shall be good friends again. Very likely I shall do you that
way, too ; but, don't trouble yourself about me now, Bertha, I'm
too stupid to be interesting. There comes Adeliza Euphemia;
pray let nee escape her dry cackle, and lose myself in Die Don-,
anlander, where I was wandering when. your voice recalled me this
afternoon, and I'l try to forget all this clatter and chatter and,
my own wickedness. Everything is gay and joyous. there.--
Don't look so at me, dear. I'm not worth your trouble."
She moved away into another corner, and laid down her vex-
ations and took up her thoughts again.
Mrs. Williams' rooms were filled, as she said, "chock full," in
spite of the' weather, and as night "drew her sober curtains
round," she began to calculate upon the probability of having to
butter more biscuits and get out more crullers. She- counted
noses, and allowed a cruller to each, and devoutly thanked her

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              44
stars that the young men could not get in early ; and she went
out and bade Sonsie hurry up the tea kettle.
"Put under a lot of shavins, and we'll have supper before any
of them -men-folks get here. As like as not some of 'en 'll be pok-
ing along because their wives is here; jes like 'em."
She had decided, as the best possible means of saving her eat-
ables and at the same time of being elegant, to send around her
tea. Though since the faux pas at Ruth Blair's, when poor
Chris had so wretchedly. come to grief, theladies had mostly set
the supper upon a table, and expected the members to stand about
and help themselves. This did not suit Mrs. Willianis' desire to
mingle economyand display ; therefore she sent upon a silver
salver china plates, containing as many slices of bread-and-butter
as there were ladies, and two over, as she said, for "manners,"
cut as thin as could be, and laid over with a scarcely perceptible
scraping of butter. The cups and plates were of the finest, and
the bread just sufficient to whet the appetites, and they looked
out a little anxiously for more, but more there none did come, and
they stirred the tea in their handsome cups, and sipped at their
leisure. After a while the crullers appeared, of a size to suit the
bread, and then Sonsie gathered up the empty dishes, and all was
over.
"I shall have to storm the pantry when I get home," said Zoe
to Sabrina. " I never was so hungry in my life. Suppose you
go up, like Oliver, and ask for more. I only wish Chandy was
here-; I'd like to see her put him off with such a supper as this !"
" Oh yes;. Chandos has impudence enough for anything. Do
you remember the time when we children all went out to Deacon
Proddy's to tea, and they had the strawberries set on in a saucer
near Chandy, and he drew them in and ate the whole."
"Oh yes ; and the family peas were on in a bowl, and I hope
he devoured all those also. He said he supposed they were in-
tended for him when.we laughed at him afterwards; but I doubt
it."
"Of course he did," said Sabrina; "and very natural, too, I'm
sure."


444        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.                                                               4

WIDOW GOLDS\pTII'S DAUGIITER.

Bertha, who had colored up and looked unnecessarily indignant,
thought Sabrina -Bradshaw a truly noble girl-so'wise and so
just.
"We've got to have moire crullers," said Sonsie, her eyes danc-
ing. ," There's not enough to go round; old Miss Pettengill took
two, and Mrs. Hitchcock has not had any, and she told me to
bring her some."
" You let me catch you at it ! I did'nt make .cackleations for
five hundred. Old Miss Pettengill is a greedy old critter, allus
was. Go back and get out the rest of my chany, and mind you
don't nick 'em."
Mrs. Williams had delivered strict orders to her olives that
they were all to keep at a "respectable distance" from the par-
lors. She never permitted them to enter those sacred precincts.
Her domestic rule was, as we know, very little moral suasion,
combined with much use of the raw-hide, and they always diso-
beyed or evaded her commands on every opportunity. They
had been on the watch, skirmishing about the doors, jumping up
and peeping in at the windows, and indulging in little :yells and
chuckles all the afternoon, and as soon as the door was opened
for admission of Sonsie and her waiter, the mother being off
guard, superintending operations in the kitchen, they dived in,
one and all, hurrying, scurrying, pushing, jostling, much to the
annoyance of the ladies, who tucked up their dresses at their ap-
proach, and trembled for their corns. They went curiously about,
examining all the furniture, and exchanging slang comments.
They seated themselves at the center-table, putting their gravelly
shoes upon the polished rails, and took in their dirty hands the
pictures and ambrotypes, breathing upon the glass, rubbing it upon
their sleeves. Then they went about and handled the scarlet
needle-books and delicate fancy articles, and asked questions and
said "hugh !" when they did not understand, and snuffed, and
coughed, and got before the great mirror (bought at a bargain,
having a card stuck over one corner to hide the bit chipped off,)
and they spit on their hands and anointed their hair, and danced
up and down, and made faces. While still in the height of their

stolen pleasure, a violent altercation was heard without, and pres-
ently the door burst open, and Baxter, red and belligerant, made
a dive inwards; as restrained by a party holding on to his gar-
ments.
'u I will go in, so now, there !" he exclaimed, as by a vigorous
jerk he gained the victory. His mother looked in after him, red,
like the boiled lobster.
" Come out here, you sir, if you know what's good for your-
self!"
"I shan't nuther ; I'm goin' to stay here! -It's comfortable in
here ; you don't never let me come in, now I'm goin' to ,stop till I
see all your fixins."
Mrs. Williams looked scorpions at her eldest son, but stood
irresolute ; she used to lead him to school with a halter round his
neck, when he played hookey ; he was getting too strong for het-
now, and. she hated to tackle him. In an unlucky moment he
stepped back, set his foot upon her new lace curtain, and tore it
ruinously. It was too~ much  she, rushed, at. him in red fury,
seized him by the hair, her favorite mode -of, attack, and pulled
as hard as she could. He gave in, as the . tiger does under the
discipline of the hot bar, and was dragged out; but he beat
the tiger in howling, by odds. Before he reached the door he
happened to catch Christabel's eyes fixed upon him in amazement
and disgust. He.stopped his yells, or rather articulated them.
" You'd better toddle home and nuss your torn cat, he wants
you, he9 does," and treated her to a horrible grimace as he disap-
peared..
The rest'of the cubs scuttled out in double-quick, and Mary
Ann tucked up the tattered finery, and looked frightened and un-
happy.
" Oh, my! what a dreadful hole ! How mad ma will be!" said
she to Belle, who was bursting with laughter.
"What of it ?" she replied, carelessly; " don't look as if the
world was coming- to an end. It is vulgar to seem to mind such
trifles; indeed it is a Bible injunction to take joyfully the-spoiling
of your goods."

445


446          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
After tea, Mr. Growing came in. He looked tired and care-
worn. He had been out all day with his subscription paper, and
met with little success. Some thought the old church good
enough, some had no money, some were not going to be nosed
around by Mrs. Deacon Williams, nearly all prayed to be ex,
cused.uGeorge Blair and Ruth accompanied him. After some
talk, Ruth said :.
"It looks as if we were a day after the fair; I hope you have
had supper."
"Not this evening. I have not sat down to-day ; I did not go
home after I left Deacon Proddy's, I was so dreadfully fagged;
and I knew that my wife was here. I wish I had asked you for
a cup of tea; I am always sure of your hospitality."
at won't do," said George; "you should have come to the
Horse-Shoe, you look fit to drop.".
He went out into the kitchen. "Ah, Sonsie" said he to the
little maid, who was washing up the best china, imder horrible
penalties in case of breakage, and whose face laughed all over at
t o h         Couldyou get M-r. Growing a cup of tea do you
think -?"
"And is it the tay ye'd be after wanting, sir ?" said she,.placing
her stout arms in her favorite attitude, and glancing at him Over
her shoulder. "It'11 be like pulling the teeth out of her, an' it's
niver a one she's got; but-I'll do me best. Missis," she called
after the retreating dame, who saw them and guessed what they
were after. The tea-caddy is locked, sure, but there's about a
thimble-full put out for breakfast ; I'll just take that, i think;
it'll be a nice dacent pullin' for one, anyhow."
She brought it fresh and hot to Mr. Growing, (whom George
piloted into the kitchen for the purpose,) with the end of the loaf
which was to have been her supper. He drank it eagerly and
returned the empty cup, with a kind word or two, which delighted
her.
"I'd ga widouthme supper for you any day in the week," said
she, mentally, as he walked away.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       447

Mr. Growing had brought a book, and seating himself at the
table, he said:
" Ladies, would you like me to read to you for half an hour ?"
One or two assented, the rest kept silence, and wished him
away._
"I think," he=added, looking around and smiling, " that it is as
well to gather in all the good thoughts we are able, as we pass
along."
He sat awhile with his book open, waiting for the talk to sub-
side. Most of those present respected the young pastor suffi-
ciently to be quiet; but old Miss. Pettengill and Mrs. Esquire
Hitchcock, and one or two others, either did not hear or did not
choose to attend, and continued their conversation; and the group
of giggling girls in the corner were too giddy to listen to anything
sensible. Mr. Growing glanced. across at them once, or twice,
and then sat looking thoughtfully down. His face saddened, and
grew more discouraged. At length Ruth said, cheerfully:
"Suppose you begin, si ; we will try to command ourselves to
silence ; being women, it may be difficult."
He looked pleased, and opened the volume he had chosen,--
" Recreations of a Country Parson." His voice was fine, and he
read charmingly.  Zoe, Sabrina, and Susie Jenkins grouped
themselves around him, and Dulcet Pettibone struck an attitude
of polite attention, with her forefinger on her cheek, and George
stood near, leaning against the wall with his hands. behind him,
and his eyes fixed upon Ruth's face. She sat gazing at vacancy,
as soon as the reading commenced. Her motionless figure, draped
in snowy cambric, and her bent head, were a study to the young
giant, and Belle Brandon floated up to him and smiled.
After a few minutes the ladies began to talk, at first in whis-
pers, and then louder and louder; and then the gentlemen began
to drop in, and poor Mr. Growing closed the volume with a dis-
appointed sigh, and turning to Ruth, who looked up hurriedly, and
saw Belle and George talking together, he said:
" This is the fourth attempt I have made to enlist the attention
of the ladies of this society in useful reading- I believe I must

0


448          WIDOW GOLDSMITii'S DAUGHTER..
give it up.. I don't like to; I know much good might be gotten
if they would attend."
Poor man ! He had tried to start a debating glub, and a
reading circle, and both had specially failed. The Millvillites
were not a reading people. As yet they cared principally for
getting ahead, and the young folks were coining up with little or
no love for books or cultivation of any sort. He planted on a
barren soil, so far as a hope of raising a -crop of literary taste
was concerned, and while such people as Mrs. Deacon Williams
were accounted leaders of society, there was little encouragement
for the future. I have known ministQrs who, in Fred Growing's
place, would have consoled themselves with the half dozen Roar-
ing River families, where he would have found just the atmos-
phere to suit him, but he was too delicately conscientious for that,,
and even refrained from visiting much anvng them, because of
the especial delight he experienced in their culture and elegance,
saying to himself it is to the poor of this world that the gospel is
to be preached.
The young men liked attending the societies, and were very
willing to pay their fee for the pleasure of the frolic, and the clos-
ing delights of attending their favorites home. There had been
a recent importation of a very fancy specimen of a young
man.   He wore a crush opera hat, which he was always
maneuvering to the intense astonishment of his acquaintances,
mostly clerks, (" counter-jumpers," Belle called them,) and on a
chain he had a nose nipper, which it made him dizzy to use; his
moustache was. "lovely," and such dear little boots, and the seal
ring on his third finger was as bigas those in the Egyptian Mu-
seum. So much out of his element did he seem, that it would
have been difficult to imagine what surge of the wave of life
could have driven him upon this foreign shore, had'not his presence
been explained by the fact that he was a nephew of Captain Slo-
cum, and he fully set forth the absolute and striking contrastswhich
crop out in our American families. His father sent him to Millville,
hoping that he would settle down in the office of the Gonecussets,
but as he sent along a servant to dress him, and permitted him to

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER. .        .   449
indulge in trotters and accompanying luxuries, the G. M. C's.
looked upon him with little favor.
The daughters quite differed with their papas, and were enthu-
siastic over the elegant creature who had not an s in his alphabet,
and no end of nonsense in his daintily curled pate. He showed a
decided penchant for Belle Brandon, who amused herself not a
little with his mgincing prettiness and dandy affectations, and called
him " Posey." His patronymic was scarcely in keeping with his
exterior and pretentions, being only Brown; but his mama had
done her best to compensate him for that, by bestowing fat the
baptismal font the euphonious christian or pagan names of Cym-
balius Adolphus, and very proud he was of them. Zoe Walsing-
ham had some jokes at his expense, and said he was well named,
being really a rare specimen of a cymlin.
By-eight o'clock the young men were all arrived, brushed, per-
fumed, and altogether comme ii faut. A head and shoulders
above the rest, in his own opinion at least,. was Cymbalius
Adolphus. He maneuvered his crush hat in the hall, shutting
it flat at a blow, and made an extempore conundrum on the Mill-
ville girls, which he had studied up and written out in the office.
The bashful fellows who were trying to get courage to enter, and
poking each other forward, took shelter behind his airs, and after
he had carefully examined his neck-tie, and wiped his boots on
the scarlet fly-brush, and said:
"Ma foil these affairs are a bore, a nuisance, but come. on, fel-
lahs,"-they all followed in his wale, and got in successfully.
Belle Brandon did the honors of the house as if she had been
the daughter, coolly keeping Mary Ann in the back-ground, who
accepted the position as a matter of course.
Chris stood in a window looking out into the summer night, lost
' in a reverie, as much alone as if she had been in a wilderness,
when a pair of soft little arms encircled her, and Pauline -Brad-
shaw said caressingly :
" You and I don't care about any of this, do we, Chris? I
haven't had a good time at all, and I'm hungry. I only got a
tiny piece of bread for my supper, and not a bit of cake. Gracie

A

)


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S -'DAUGHTER.-

isn't here, and Dick wouldn't come; he's gone off a fishing; I
wish I-had gone too, he asked me. I think it is dreadful dry, don't
you? Come, Chris, you shall tell me a fairy story, that'is better
than supper.".
Chris returned. her caress, glad of. somebody to take into her
arms, besides the.: real liking she had for the odd independent
child, who never did exactly what was expected of her, but was
always cropping out in unexpected developments.
"Fairy stories, dear ! why you have pumped ie dry. I an
sure you know all my tales so well that you could tell them bet-
ter than I."
Now, Chris, you are stuffed full of stories, you know you are!
and such nice ones ! They don't have a tea-spoonful of story to
a whole hogshead of remarks and moral observations."
" Oh, you cute little critic ! I begin to be afraid of you."
"Do-you know, Chris, I tried hard to read Daisy Chain, but
it was so church and so good; I bate good books. And then I
got 'Say and Seal,' and it seemed as if Faith never did anything
but look up and look down, and make muffins. Oh dear, what a
pity I thought about muffins, it makes me hungry again, and I'
can't go home till Sabrina's ponies come. Now, Chris, I'll start
you: ' Some children went into a wood to gather sticks ; their
names were Gretchen and Hansel."'
Chris laughed, and took up the tale at that point, and spun the
woof out of her fertile brain, so that Pauline hung on her words
with eager enjoyment; and- so absorbed were both in the woes of
the hapless wood-gatherers, that they were utterly oblivious of
the fact that Sabrina and Zoe had stolen up and were listening,
and that Sam Slaughton had planted himself by the window, thus
affording a support for lazy Chandy, who threw his arm over his
shoulder, ard they, too, wandered in the dim forest, haunted by
the dreary old witch whose chin was dressed with scattering hairs,
so coarse that each seemed a -snake, and whose yellow fangs
chopped together, when she poked out her claws of fingers huht-
ing for poor Gretchen, to where the oven was red-hot, and the
six black cats glanced at them with their eyes like balls6of fire.

WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S: DAUGHTER.,      .    4 $1
Belle Brandon found the time apposite, Mr. Hauxhur-st stood
near, conversing with Mr. Growing, Jan Vedder and Cymbalius
Adolphus werewithin hearing distance ; therefore she floated up
to Chris in the step she had tried upon her hostess in the norn-
ing, and seizing the skirt of the rapt raconteur i~n her thumb and
finger, she sang, airily:
"Wilt thou have a satin gown, bonnie lassie, lowland lassie,
Silver tassels hanging down, bonnie lassie ? -
For yours has got an awful hole, lowland lassie,
And hasn't ever been darned at all, bonnie lassie," &amp;c.
"' The Fejee Islanders always stand on their heads when they
tell news," piped Pauline in her shrill treble, jerking the satin
out of Belle's grasp. "I wish you would go into the other room,
Belle Brandon ; you are always in the way."
The girls laughed and clapped their hands, and Chandy put his
into his pocket for a penny, but remembering former experiences,
he changed his mind, and kept quiet. Mrs. Hitchcock and old
Miss Pettengill exchanged glances and spiteful sniffs.
"Shiftless creature and so impudent! Adeizy Euphemy don't
like her, not a bit."
"P-culiar, I should say," cackled the ancient maiden, who was
chewing flag-root, perhaps trying to console herself for her light
repast.  ",Heow  do you admire that Christabel Goldsmith-?
You are a coilneyswear, among the women I believe, Mr. Brown."
" Most curiously and wonderfully made, madam," replied Cym-
balius Adolphus, leveling his nose nipper at the spinster, " quite
an ancient fossil ma foi."  Then turning to Sam, he added " I
call that rather a neat reply, Slaughton, on the spur of the mo-
ment too, next time let her call me names, 'conny-swear.' When
I don't even dam."
-Dicet and those more distant pressedl forward to see what all
the laughing ivas about, and Pauline was very impatient at the
interruption of, her pleasure. "Why can't they let us be, Chris.
I wish I had a castle where I could lock you in, and keep those out."
Now Otho Groenveldt had entered at the door while Chris was


452       WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.-

in the full tide of her narration, and had stopped in the shelter of
the ample curtains, to study the changing face, whose moods were
dearer than ever to him, and more precious, and he had been inly
wondering at her forgetfulness of self, and the power she pos-
sessed of throwing her soul into her story; painting her word
pictures, so that her figures lived and loved and gladdened and
suffered, and he studied also the wrapt faces of the eager listeners,
who were sorrowing, rejoicing under her spell, and Otho Groen.
veldt had heard the whole. With a slight frown and compressed
lips, he watched-to see how she would comport herself under this
provocation. She flushed blazing scarlet, the brilliant hue of the
Pomegranate blossom-he held in his hand tied up for her with the
purple pansies, and threw back her head like a startled deer, a
sure sign she was much' excited or very angry, and faced about
with a stinging retort on her lips; then glancing down at her torn
dress, from which Belle's manipulations had pulled the pin; a
swift change passed over her face, humble self-condemnation ruled
out the pride and anger, and she quietly and softly took it from
Pauline's hand, saying :
" I feel and deplore my carelessness, Belle, as much as even you
could wish to have me. I am very much hurt and cut up by your
ridicule, so that I assure you, you hav'nt lost your trouble. Let
me compliment you upon choice of time and place. It was skillw-
fully if not nobly done. I'm but a sorry grub now, have a little-
patience, and you shall see me cast my chrysalis and emerge a
gay butterfly, and if you will please to let Pauline and me pass,
we will seek a quiet spot where we shall offend your eyes no
more."
With a slight bow to her tormentor, she took the child by the
hand, and left the window. The bystanders looked at each other
and not a word was said among them while she remained insight;
and Miss Belle was fain -to put .her arm within that of Cymba-
lius Adolphus, and lead him away; sailing off with spread robes
and much childish prattle to cover her 'defeat. Otho knew how
much the effort had cost his fiance, and forgave the, unworthy
dress, for the pretty dignity of her demeanor. He stepped for-

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER. ,453
ward now, and arrested her steps, offering his hand. it was worth
a journey to the Pyramids, that look on her face, love and pride
and joy ; still Otho felt rather glad that his mother tias safely
housed up at Craigenfells.
Mrs. Williams, on the lookout to protect her belongings, per-
ceived with much uneasiness, that the young element were pro-
jecting a frolic of some kind, and trembled for her carpets and
curtains.
" Come girls," said she, approaching a group in eager conversa-
tion, "supposin you kinder pair off, and play your play out in the
kitchen, its nice and large, and a scrumptous place for a spree."
"Certainly, madame," replied Zoe, " with the utmost pleasure,
we flatter ourselves that we have a mission for adorning any sur-
roundings ; and girls, don't let us lose the precious moments, ten
o'clock will strike a great deal too soon. Let's have a game fof
blindman's buff."
All eagerly agreed, and the great kitchen was immediately
lighted up with bright faces, and such gay talk and laughter as
was not often heard there.
" Now Mary Ann, you go and convoy the gentleinen, protect
them through the crowd. I promised to call them as soon as we
were ready. Zoe took the young lady by the arm, and tried to
put her through the door.
" I had rather not," said she, hanging back, looking, around at
Belle as usual.
" Poor lamb, is she afraid of the wolves ? well they are dan-
gerous, but I'll venture. We must have gentlemen, there's no use
denying, the fact. There's no good times perfect without them.
I'm careful not to promulgate any such theory in Peter's hear-
ing." (This addendum was mental.) She seized the tea bell and
flew through the rooms, ringing a merry peal, and calling gaily:
" Sir Knights to the rescue ! four and twenty damsels, await
your coming in the howling wilderness-meaning kitchen-for
the honor of chivalry, on'heaven and on your lady call, and enter
the enchanted hall."
The young gentlemen gathered in her wake, joking and laugh.


454     WIDOW oOmLDST'AGITER.TH'S DAUGHTER

ing, and they all disappeared through 'the door, which was care-
fully shut behind them.
"My goodness! what a bold piece !" said old Miss' Pettengill,
to whom Zqe's fresh cheeks were extremely unpleasant. "Pretty
peculiar, I should say, how folks can."
" Miss Walsingham has a little exuberance of spirits perhaps,"
replied Mr. Growing, to whom the' remark was addressed, "but
life and life's trials will tame all that, soon enough;,we need a good
portion of animal fire, to get on comfortably in this world of cares
and perplexities, without sinking under them.'
Old Miss Pettengill returned the young Pastor's rather sad
smile with a most vinegar aspect.- She was as completely put
out aswere Deacon Proddy and Caleb Catchen, who went to him
for advice about their wild sons.
" Gentlemen," said he, "ifyou wish to keep them from gross
vices, provide suitable amusements at home. Put croquet on your
lawns and billiard tables in your houses, and they will not be'
driven to seek those sports among improper companions."  Poor
Fred's life was a continual struggle. It was like harnessing a
blooded young colt with a worn out ol plow horse ; he was fret-
ting and wearing out his life in a vain effort to pull his yoke fel-
lows on, trying to draw their. burdens as well as his own."
" But are Ayou not afraid of encouraging levity ?" asked Mrs.
McCross. ",We are to take Christ for our pattern,. and we ae
told'he was never seen to smile."
Mrs. McCross' -piety. was of the severe sort. Such as Mr.
Webber says, " fills the door-yard with grave stones, the mansion
with skeletons, and keeps the thought, 'I've got to die,' continually
in mind.": Fred Growing smiled into her forbidding face.
"My idea of Christ is quite different to that madam. He was
a perfect man, and mirthfulness could not have been wanting in-
him. He lived on terms of familiar intimacy with his disciples,
ana it is not to be believed that in all those days of foot travel
through the smiling country, there were no gay incidents, no
mirth-provoking occasions, no jokes, no laughter. .,St. Peter

could not have endured such a life, his mercurial temperament must
have risen to the point of jollity. Sweet St. John's gentle face
was 'often dressed in smiles, and as in water, face answereth to
face, so the heart of Christ beat in unison with the disciples whom
he loved. Had he been always sad, he could not so warmly have
attached his followers, for however much we may respect a char-
acter, we turn intuitively away from a clouded face, dressed
always in gloom-; we respect at a distance. I have no idea that
the Divinity was always, or even often, apparent in Jesus."
O'd Miss Pettengill munched her flagroot in silence, she could
scarcely take in the full heinousness of such dreadful heresy,.and
Mrs. McCross shook her head, and from that evening she made
up her mind that Mr. Growing was not the Pastor for Millville.
Now he still further aggravated them by rising and placing his
hand lovingly upon George Blair's shoulder, and. going forward.
Strikingly dissimilar were they in physique, but the firm, steadfast
giant turned his massive face toward the clear cut features of his
boyhood's friend, and-he noted uneasily the hectic bloom'on his
smooth cheek and the lustre of his eyes.
" You are killing yourself, Fred. You are as thin as a shadow."
4Better wear out than must out, George. I seem, to hear the
heavy ripple of the dark river sometimes, but I shrink from the
plunge. I hav'nt got dying grace yet,' and my work is not done."
Mr. Growing put up his hand, and suppressed a slight cough, and
his eyes smiled.serenely in his friend's face.
" Don't talk that way, Fred. Just cut loose from these Mill-
villites, and take a trip and get up your muscle, and don't cough
like that, it hurts me."
" Don't fret about me, George, old fellow. I'm in my right
place: come, let us look in on these young /people. I enjoy their
frolics."
" And that fellar is'nt a professor neither, he's as thick with
him as if he was a deacon ; peculiar I should say."
Mrs. Jenkins smiled. ~" Our great Teacher ate with publicans
and sinners," said she.
When the kitchen door opened and let out a wave of merri-

WIDOW . GOLDaMITII'S DAUGHTER.  455


456        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.W4

mCnt, Cymbalius Adolphizs rose and offered his - arm to miss
Brandon. " Allow me," said he, "suppose we go and see how
these rustics 'amuse themselves, a curious study, are they not ?"
Belle showed him her eyes and her teeth, and they followed
close after George and Mr. Growing.
" Brave fun, this, Miss Brandon," said George, when her silken
robes .rustled against him and her perfumed curls swept his sleeve
in her effort to see into the kitchen. " Upon my word, I like such
frolics, they keep the heart young-if anything can," he added,
pushing off his hair with a tired gesture.
"Come George Blair," called out Zoe, as soon as she saw -him,
seizing his hand, and trying to pull him into the room. She might
as well have tried to pull in the oak trees which shaded the
window.
w Do come, there's a good fellow," said she, ceasing her efforts
and taking up her choicest weapon, entreaty, " we want you for
blindman; excuse me Mr. Growing, but this is clearly Mr. Blair's,
field of usefulness just now."
" Me, Missey !" said George, surrendering himself good natur-
edly, and letting himself be pulled. " You forget that I'm the
father of a family, a man of many cares, grave and decorous, bet-
ter take some of these young fellows, there's Chandy, he's
fleet as Mercury."
"Sit down," replied Zoe, for all answer, "the mountain must
come to Mahomet," (having convinced herself that on her tippest-
toes she could not reach. his face.)  . -
" Well, a woman must have her way though the heavens should
fall."
"I forgive the unworthy remark, because I know you will ac-
quit yourself admirably as blindman. Now, what do you see be-
fore you ?" adjusting the handkerchief and holding up her hand,
" speak quickly, and speak truly."
" Well then," replied George, leisurely, "I see a pair of ugly
green eyes, for one thing, and a little bit, of a nez retrousse, that
narrowly escapes being Pug, and-"

"You need not go on, sir," said Sam Slaughton. "It is, patent
to all of us that you are as blind as a bat."
"Now Gaffer, eat your soup," said Zoe, with a laughing ac-
knowledgment of Sam's compliment.
"Where is my spoon, Goody," replied George, rising and
stretching out his hands.
" Go and find it on the floor,
Call out it's name in gentle roar,
Or hunt for spoons forever more."
Tliis regulation opening was the signal for beginning the game,
and the players crept and sidled, and ran aid pushed, and little
explosive bursts of laughter flew about, as they got behind the
massive shoulders of the young blacksmith, and twitched his coat
tails, and pulled his hair.
He, good-natured giant, permitting all sorts of liberties with his
great person, and feeling his .way with outstretched arms,. as poor
blind Sampson felt for the gates of Gaza. Mr. Growing looked
on, enjoying, and laughed heartily when George caught Zoe, who
puffed out her cheeks and held her breath, while he passed- his
hand over her face and :shoulders and finally dismissed her, her
identity unguessed, though the dull Gaffer laughed a short laugh
as she slid out of-his arms.
Even Cymbalius Adolphus seemed in danger -of, catching the
infection of fun, and said, "Aafoi," and edged about here and
there, as-Gaffer's fingers came in too close proximity to him. Belle
Brandon stood on her dignity, and curled her lip disdainfully.
The flushed eager faces of the girls and their graceful motions
vexed her, she could have slapped them for looking so pretty,;and
said offensively, when Sabrina tame near her:
-I don't see how Miss Bradshaw can join in such a country-
fled log-house sort of a game. Why.they romp like. servants."
"And yet I've seen you dance the German, Miss Brandon,"
said-Sabrina, "the cushion, and the whip," and her curtesy and
smile were very provoking.
Cymbalius Adolphus, to whm Belle's remark was ;addressed,
20

s
WIDOW, C OLD SM1'[IT1'.S DAUGHTER.  457


468       wiDow GOtDSMITh'S DAUGHTER.

was=on the lookout for Gaffer. " Per haps being in Turkey she
does as Turkeys -do," said ahe. " It's a bore, but "-just 'then
George laid a hard on.his shoulder,-and he wriggled like an eel,
and squirmed out of reach. "You see, Miss, Brandon, one does
i6t like to have one's bi-oadcloth seized on by the .ruthless hands
of the rabble," he came back and explained. Belle receivedhis
palliation very indifferently, -for she was by this time watching
Ruth, who had somehow drifted into hervicinity. A sudden im.
pulse seized Belle, and she pushed, the. little woman right into her
husband's outstretched arms. He felt her face, for an instant, she
standing pale and motionless.
"It is my wife," said he, the mirth all dying out of his face, as
he pulled off the 'bandage, and walked away. Belle was still
looking cidriously at them, when Sam Slaughton came up wping
his hot face.
"A:A'are frolic 'this, 'Miss Brandon."
"You  eer- to enjoy it. I am :afraid. I am not quite fond of,
'romping."
" Those back-handed hits of yours. are scathing," laughed Sam.
"You'see Mrs.'Blair is quite of 'my opinion, Mr. Slaughton,
she does- not smile on the furious mirth, even though her charming
h band consetfs to lend himself to its promotion."
" You greatly err then," said Ruth, quickly. "I like nothing-
better than acharmless frolic, though'a headache prevents me this
evening' from. joining it."
"-YOu said.headache, I think," questioned Belle with a saucy
face.
"I=did,".answered Ruth very angrily. "I said 'headache.".-.
"4 I thoughtI understood.you," replied the-blonde, a provoking
smile wreathing her lips.
'You are mistaken then,'for~you do:notand, cannot understand
me. Themedium through which you loolk is too grossly dark-
ened-"
A-soon asilRuth 'had. spoken, she was angry with herself for
being so roiled by her beautiful tormentor, whose steely eyes.fairly
glitteed; 'and.she involuntaeily glanced 'around to see if her- hus.

WIDOW GO tDSf;tTH'S DA.UGHTEn.          459
band was looking at them. ,Belle had said her say, as it seemed,
for she turned to Cymbalius Adolphus.
I should like to sit, if you will undertake to pilot me safely
through these dancing Dervishes, Mr. Brown."
"Certainly, with pleasure.  I discover ;some wooden con-
trivances, we will suppose them to be chairs, of ancient -pattern,
produced evidently, in the infancy of the useful arts. Scarcely a
fit throne for so much- beauty, but ma foi, in0Turkey."
This'observation seeed to be quite a stand-by of Mr. Brown's,
and he laughed in a conceited, selfosatisfied way at his.wit.: In
threading their course through the crowd of players, just as they
-reached the great fire-place,-some one of .the spoons fleeing: be-
fore-Gaffer blindman, (who, horresco referens!r was Rev. Mr. Fred
Growing,) ran against Miss Belle from-behind, and projected her
into a sitting posture, the floor, being scrubbed and waxed into a
state of exceeding slippiness. The suddenness, and solidity of
her descent elicited =an involuntary grunt kfrom'the fair overthrown,
and so astonished was she at her performance, that -she satstill,
looking with helpless, perplexed gaze :at. her two feet sticking
straight out before her. An incipient titter recalled her to a
sense of her ludicrous position, and in'endeavoring to gather her-
self up she struck against a cricket, which dodged off and knock-
ed:down the kitchen tongs, which hit the forestick (nearly burned
through,) and scattered the glowing coals over the hearth, and
plentifully besprinkled the hide of :Bax Williams' bull-terrier,
who, though' a' valiait fighter when he met. his - adversary in fair
field, now started up and darted hither and 'thither among the
spoons, oversetting some, who fell, and lay where they fell, dodg-
ing around others, who hopped and scrambled nimbly'out of his
way, and finding no egress, the singed brute ran howling under
the table,:and thrashed about like a dog gone frantic. Those dis-
tant from the fray:smelled the odor afar off, and got anxious to
learn the cause of the general mix ; and Jan Vedder put a climax
to the tumult by screaming "mad dog" with all the ,force of his
powerful lungs, mingled with. snaps and snarls'and deep mouthed
bayings, which he had an almost ventriloqual power ofi producing.


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      461

Then, indeed, the confusion became desperate, and those wh'
could not get out mounted: the chairs and tables; The women
squealed and the men battled with each other for dear life ; and
I can't tell where it -would have ended if Bax had not fought his'
way up to his property-and ejected him with many kicks and
curses, which he was mentally applying to Jan Vedder, who was
nearly bursting.
"He aint mad nuther i not half so mad as you be, you blasted
Dutchman. Shut up your chops or I'll take the tongs to you."
Chandy mounted upon a stand and 'clapped his hands and ex-
plained as well as he could for laughing; but it was some time
before order was restored and the coals swept up, and biting re-
marks flew about poor Jan's luckless head, who was regarded as
a greater reprobate than ever.'
"I say, Chandy, I had no idea of kicking up such a row," said
he, careless of their opinion; "-but was'nt it a lark ? how they
did all pour in here. Did you see Miss Dulcet?  By Jove, she
got both arms around the captain's neck, and the deacon squeezed.
Sue Jenkins-mistook her for his wife, of course, or Mary Ann.;
but he did not long enjoy his error, for she wriggled away like
an eel. They say he has an eye for fine girls, and who has a
better right, if he is a deacon !"
What with the turmoil and confusion, and rushing to and fro,
Belle still sat uponthe floor, and she had enjoyed the fun with
so keen arelish as to forget her own mortification. Christabel
now came up, and offered to assist her, and at the same instant
Chandy took hold of her arm.
" Take her up tenderly, handle with care,
Fashioned so slenderly, young and so fair."'
She threw him off angrily, and springing to her feet she walked
proudly away, throwing indignant glances among the girls as she'
passed them.
She is dreadfully put out at our laughing, I know. I'm ever
so sorry ; but I could'nt help it. She looked so funny, hitting
down so plump."

"I've most reason to be put out, Sue, for I heard her: talking
me up to that horrid grinning wretch with the eye glass, a while
before her accident; but I don't bear any malice. She and I
have different ideas of lady-like propriety, I think, and- she may
act as she likes. I'm going to speak to her."
"I'll go with you, Sabrina. Indeed I know I ought to apolo-
gize. Oh dear ! she does not look very propitious, does she ?"
Belle, seated in the parlor, with Cymbalius Adolphus at her
side, looking volumes of tender commiseration, had evidently no
intention to be gracious. On the contrary, pride and anger sat
throned. in her eyes, and she pretended not to see Sabrina, who
walked up with Sue Jenkins in her wake.
"I hope,. Belle, that our game of log house romps has not been
the means of getting you a serious hurt. You must try to forgive
our laughing. I believe total depravity must bear the blame."
"I am not hurt in the least," replied Belle coldly ; "and you
are quite welcome to any mirth you have enjoyed.  Ce' monde est
plien de fous. I shall endeavor to summon fortitude to endure
existence, even though Miss Bradshaw has laughed at me."
Feeling that she had quenched Sabrina as, well as turned a
handsome period, quite in the Chris Goldsmith style, she glanced
around upon the gentlemen who came to condole, andfound en-
joyment in being the center of attraction, even through a down-
fall; and she leaned back in her chair and looked languid and
interesting. George Blair came up among other sympathizing
inquirers, and as the others. dropped off one by one, he was left
alone, standing close to her chair.
"I have something to tell you, George," said she, turning and
laying her hand upon his arm.
" Oh yes, I remember you promised me a secret. You've ,ben
flirting with Cymbalius Adolphus, and you wish to confess. Now
then, begin."
"'Oh, George, you know I. despise that fellow, and I never flirt.
I may take you for confessor sometime, naughty George;. but not
here. (She spoke his name with tender accent, as if she loved

460

WIDOW GOLDSMITHS DAUGHTER.

11


46~ WtOW~ WhD                TAs. XAUNTER
When I openmy heart to you nImust be sure there 'are no.
listening ears."
Georg threw    ?astonished look down : her. She did -not
return his glance, but he saw that her face was flushed and her
hand trembled. In an-instant she tossed off her curls and smiled
as she said-enthusiastically -._.
How:very lovely Ruthie is to-night; such brilliant color, and
really I had:no idea she could throw so much soul into her eyes.
You ought to have her picture as she stands now."
George looked over where she pointed, and started, and a cloud
of ineable sadness settled over his noble face. His wifewas
listening to Otho Groenveldt, who spoke earnestly to her. er
eyes were fastened upon . his, and she drank in his words ob-
livious of her surroundings. Belle: Brandon threw Geraldine
glances among the three, and darted them at Chris, who, had
Pauline in her arms.
Up ii the dressing-room, half-an-hour after, Zoe exclaimed:
"Oh, girls, have we not had:a splendid time !"  She was pinning
on her shawl, and was exceedingly rosy and pretty. "I declare,
my sides ache: with laughing ; George Blair was so funny. I
thought he would finishne -off. the last part of this evening. I
never so limso 'full of jokes'
" He's a glorious fellow, answered Sabrina with enthusiasm
n'as  e. knw, din't we, Ruthie,' stoopiig down to put her lips
toRith s cheek.
He isindeed," spoke up 'Belle,'going gracefully close to them.
"It is really too hard that you should have carried £off such a
prizehefore we had a chance to. try for him.  've a great mind
to charm him away from you now."
the laughedlier nusical ripple of a laugh with hertempting
moth close to Ruth's cheek. Ruth hastily' applied her handker-
chief to the place, which burned crimson, and shaking her of, she
turned atiout 'ithoet looking ather. Wheny at the foot of'the
great staircase, her stalwart husband offered his arm, she replied
coldiy

WIDOW GOLDSMITH St DA YGHTER.           463
"Thank you, George ; I've my dress to nind. It suits me
better to walk alone::
And they went out into the darkness, a heavier gloom settling
upon their hearts and deepening into their lives. George crossed
h  hands behind his back, and kept his eyes fixed upon- the
crapching gravel, and his wife held herself aloof, not touching him,
even with her garinents. The angry contempt had vanished from
her face, and left heavy sadness in its place.'
"Iuth!" poke George suddenly. " Ruth, you' are not satis-
fled with your life."
u Is jt likely, that I should 'be. satisfied with the dregs, when, I
have a right to  brimming cup? I was satisfied. It was full
and luscious. I drank, oh I so sweet a draught. But I was
jostled 'and disturbed,.and now there is -nothing left but bitter-
ness."
' I see, I see," said George, his voice' full of tender pity. "I
hope it is not too late. I understand' you,:Ruth. It is a hard
case ;I see only one way out. - You should have-been more open
0ith ne, dear child.' I would have spared you the suffering.
You' have a right to a better life, than I can give you. Let me
thank you for all your sweetness; you have made the two years
rich in blessing. I have felt no want, strange as it seems now ;
but it would have been better to have' confided. in me. I never
dreamed that you were carrying a sore heart under your cheer-
ful ways."
"G eorge Blair!" spoke up Ruth vehemently. "Is not the
deep misery and the hard wrong enough, without these wicked
words ? Oh! cruel, cruel!"
She went into they houseand shut her door, and tore 'off her
hat and covered her face, as if she would shut out life, and hope
together ; and George' tramped up and down, the garden for
hours, with set face.: He was trying ,to bring himself to take a
resolution' which it crushed his heart to harbor, and he battled
sternly with himself,,but got no victory.
Belle Jrandon was in her own room; Mary Ann was assisting
her to undress or rather waiting her pleasure while she' applied


464     WIDOW GOLDSIH'S DAE

candle grease to her little nose, a supposititious remedy for an in.
cipient redness she fancied she discovered, and she stood before
her mirror and laughed to herself.
"Good gracious! how people will be made fools of; so vain
ai'e all things here below, the men, especially. 'here's that giant
of a blacksmith, don't know whether he stands on his head or his
heels, When I look at him."
"Where's the use of your flirting so, Belle ? I don't believe you'
will get married so quick for-it. You make all the men afraid of
you, George Blair is no good, anyway-a married man."r
"That is all you know about it; it is really remarkable how
quick you can flounder out of your depth, my dear, though I think
you'have some help in your present remarkable observations.
He-is a capital specimenfor practice. I never in the whole i ange
of my varied experience, got such glances as he is capable of 'be.
stowing; and the best of it is; he don't know what his eyes are
telling me. I flatter myself I have taught him the use of his
feattires since I made his acquaintance, and wonderfully hand-
some he is; has decidedly the grand air. Such a man would
suit me.nicely, if he had a couple of millions. I think I rather
dote upon the majestic, powerful type of manhood; it is some-
thirig to have a giant .at one's feet, who could crush you in his
great strong arms. That little roly-poly has no business with
such an athlete."
"Why Belle, how you do run on to-night! I thought you
liked Jan Vedder, or Sam Slaughton, or.Otho Groenveldt,--"
" Stop there ! I hate that fellow, he is a cunning, sly wretch,
always studying people, and that tiresome, learned- slattern is a
dose. I haven't half done with those two yet; he thinks he is
invulnerable with his supercilious looks, perhaps -he is, we've
plenty of time to try that on. As for likings, don't for one mo-
ment suppose I am' going to entangle myself in Millville. Jan
Vedder would not be a bad part, though he drinks like'a fish,
and I dare say has had 'a liasoni or two already, but those trifles
don't count when one considers that the whole estate will come to
himuundivided. He has begged me to correspond with him; I

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.             4G5
intend to keep him in mind, but I shall not marry anybody till I
have come out. There are plenty of men, besides the one in the
moon, and I'm not goingto oblige Aunt Isadore so much as to
slip off quietly. I intend to see what society is, made of before
I jump into matrimony. I'm in no hurry to nurse babies and keep
a'house. If my face and figure won't buy me a nice, rich, hand-
some husband, I'll know the reason why ; and the best fun of the
whole will be to make Auntie furnish the trousseau. Good gracious.
how that woman grudges me everything I It is like pulling teeth
to get my needs now, and how I shall enjoy seeing -her writhe
when I come to ball-dresses and jewels. Jolly time have I yet
for plenty of flirtations and loads of offers, and I'm fully resolved
to turn my back upon ma tante and quietly give her the col
shoulder; when I'm mistress of the establishment I'm to conquer -
for myself. I have not forgotton old Soapfut, and how she would
have tied me up for life, if I had not made faces and turned -up
my nose at him; and now, my dear, just go to your room; I desire
to think my thoughts ; they are infinitely nicer than anything you
can say. Good-night."


CH APTER -TWEN TY-E IGHTI.
RAINBOW ANlD THRE' DUCKLING.
BAXTER WILLANs, sneaking about Brookside, had seen Chris
lpk the- door, and watched the three, chatting down the walk, on
their way to the sewing-society, and having performed abreak-
down, illustrated with grimaces enough. for a cannibal sacrifice, he
brought out from behind the bushes,, where he had' hidden it,,a
huge i-at-trap, of the corridor pattern, having doors at-either end
which fasten up: with 'springs. It, was nicely baited with meat,
the firstnibbling of which ought, t kill or something mangle the
unlucky captive.
Creeping and wriggling, reptile fashion, close to the garden
fence, he planted it hard by Rainbow's-bower, and tried the effect
by snapping the spring once or twice, when the doors 'clashed
down'with a cruel sound.
" Golly! that's a bully contrivance. If it don't kill old Tommy,
it'll break his back, jam him good, anyhow ; and I'd sooner crip-
ple him than kill him all to -wonst. Pretty Christabel! how tick-
led she will be ! She turned up her 'nose and called off the
young ones as if I.was, pizen; she'll laugh t'other side of her'
mouth to-morrow.- Dear Rainbow ! his back'll ache, poor man's
plaster won't mend it; and I've got her old hen and chickens to
boot !" and he 'snickered and wheezed like a grindstone in full
whirl, and-exit Baxter.
Eight hours later.
Enter Otho and Chris, talking low, coming slowly on through
the night, starry now, and deliciously cool.
(466)

WIDOW   GOLDSMIThi'S DAUGHTER.           46
They espy something galloping towards them in hot haste. It
was Rainbow, whose eyes glittered with green fire ; he greeted
them with an anxious permow, and rubbed against Chris so ear-
nestly that he lifted on to his hind legs every time.
"What is it, Rainbow ?" asked Chris, patting him.
He ran on a few steps and then came back leaping, and begging
them to hurry.
" He is ins trouble, somehow," said Chris.
"Let us follow, and see what it is," answered Otho, readily.
Rainbow finding that they understood him, bounded toward the
asparagus bed, and paused close by the trap. They looked
closely, and discovered his pet duckling a fast prisoner within the,
corridor, one door having snapped down upon his tail, so that alt
his struggles could not get it free. It had not-the same effect upon
him, however, that fastening' down a donkey's. tail, has, viz., to
prevent his braying, for he. gave out at stated intervals a mela;n-
choly quack, evidently a continuation, of a long series, and which
dreadfully afflicted Rainbow, who walked around the prison and
mewed piteously.
Otho lifted the door, and ducky paddled out. Rainbow in-
stantly seized him by the neck, and trotted off to the pond, and
dropped him in. Ducky not at all astonished or alarmed by the
order of' his going, tucking. up, his paddles comfortably, as a boat-
man ships his oars when he, hoists sail, evidently accustomed' to
the: mode of. conveyance. - His friend paused long enough on the'
bank to.-make sure that he was all right, then he lapped:eagerly at.
the cool water, and shook himself, and- set off on a long trot to keep'
an appointment. You see he belonged' to a well-known band of
serenaders, among whom he held the responsible position'-of first
caterwaul,. and he was' under a promise to assist in a concert to'
be give. to Pussina Snowfoot, of whom' his' friend Nigrino was
desperately enamored. As -he journeyed' he glanced upward.
"Permow ! I know by the starlight 'tis almost midnight,
Nigrino was expecting us an hour and ahalf ago.'


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

CHA PTE-R TWENTY-N'INTH.
SIR JOHN CHANDOS AND THE SILVER LAKE GODDESS.'
IT would have been patent to the most casual observer that
"Sir John Chandos, rich in'all knightly virtues," had something-
on his mind,. He stopped dead still, with a hair-brush in each
haiid, and gazed at the impossible posies on his slippers, and then
sat down on. the, edge, of his bed, with his coat on his arm, and
coming to a little, he got into that garment, and studied carefully
the evolutions of a bumble-bee, (performing wheel and counter-
wheel before the window,) his brows contracted and his eYes coy-
eing the droning, buzzing   tactician-as if his welfare
erg  rnigbuzig tciin        s fhswlae depended
upon seeing him safely through.
Getting by slow stages to the end of his toilette, he looked, as
his mother often said of him, with great pride, ' as if he had just
stepped out of a band-box.' ' Then he took his bamboo under his
arm, and went out of the front door and down the long path, out
through the gate, whistling disconsolately. So absorbed was he,
that he nearly ran over Sabrina and Pauline, who were saunter-
ing leisurely past the Goldsmith mansion.
"CGoddess of the silver lake, all hail !" he exclaimed,' his brow
clearing instantly. "You come floating by, like a violet cloud on
purpose to help me out of my difficulties.'"
" Oh how nice and flowery you are, Chandy; I do admire, of,
all things, the highfalutin style. Is it that you have difficulties oh
mortal, 'wandering in doubtful mazes ?  Speak ! they shall di-
solve from our gracious presence like morning mists before the
sunshine."
(468)

"'Why you see, Sabrina, it is a trifle, but one of the few trifles
in which I am not posted. I wish to purchase for Chris a dress,
or dresses, as may be, one for the fair, at any rate."
"Oh, Chindy ! thank you for a dear fellow," said Sabrina,
warmly. "I so longed to speak to you about that, but I was
afraid you would take offence."
"I'm such a tremendous fire-eater," interrupted Chandy, laugh--
ing; "you are quite right to stand in awe of me. Well you see,
terrible as I am, I don't know how the deuce I'm to inquire for
what I want. 'Stuff for a dress,'-that won't do, because then
the unpleasant clerk would be sure to say, 'What kind of stuff?'
and there he would have me, helpless as a new-born babe. Now
I am your escort, you, Miss Bradshaw, are shopping, and allow
me to attend you. You can look at me, and I'll nod when I like
anything, and ' Richard is himself again."
"Certainly, Chandos, I shall be delighted, I'm sure ; but sup-
pose we were to stop and make Ruth go with us, she is so expe-
rienced, you know.
- "Just as you say; but I assure you I consider your taste fault-
less"
" Oh, of course ; but shall I confess to you, I know as little
about prices as you do about fabrics ; I am ashamed of it, but I
always order my dresses from Lamode's, trimmings and every-
thing, and my hats same way. Papa always shops with me all
the time I am in New York, and I get what I like, and he pays
the bills."
"That is the way Chris ought to do, and by Jove she shall
after this."
"I don't know, Chandos; it saves bother to be sure ; but a de-
signing person, (and I am told there are suclh in the dry goods
line, inoffensive as most of them look,) might take us in and do
for us, in fact, cheat us out of our eye-teeth."
"Very sensible indeed, always supposing that we have cut
them. If that is the case, it will be advisable to commend our
tender, inexperienced youth to Ruth's care. She will make a
responsible sheep dog to such a pair of innocent lambs."


470        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

Still, laughing and chatting, they walked into Ruth's open. door,
and explained rapidly and. concisely; but though she laughed at
their fun, they were surprised to, hear the little matron decline to
accompany them, and. she persisted in declining, in spite of their
entreaties,' and she flushed up. and seemed ill at. ease.; and Sabri.
na's woman's quickness perceived that she was anxious to be rid
,of -them, and bade them. adieu as hurriedly as was consistent with
politeness.,

CHAPTER THIRTIETH.
" IT IS NOT THE FROCK WHICH MAKES TRE JBRIAR."
MILLVILLE EMPoRIUM! The New Bazaar, by Starbird &amp;
Pedlow. Shining with fresh paint, glaring with plate-glass, orna-
mented by a vast sign, in gilt letters a foot long. No end of
cheap hose suspended from revolving hoops, swinging about the
doors. " Great bargains in cheese cloths !"  " Wet cottons from
the fire!"  "Remnants!! Remnants! !"
Within, a walker, gotten up with high art, paraded back and
forth, bowing ands smiling, " What will you, look at, ladies ?"
(blandly.) "Mr. Jones, show the parasols," (with sudden access
of severe dignity.) . A lot of fancy clerks, their -hair all parted
in the. middle, behind the counters, suggestive of tremendous
trade ; frantic calls of " cash," and little boys bumping each other
in their mad haste, wheezing like damaged. bag-pipes, as if their
sleeping quarters had been subject to draft, and they had all got
cold.
Sabrina and Chandy were in the thick of it, the counter piled
with silks' and muslins. The pale clerk had already exhibited a
score of them, gathered in his hand, and struck an attitude, with
his head on one, side, and fingers spread on his hip, left foot in
third position, and remarked plaintively of each:
" Yes, ma'am, cheap and putty, too."
But Sabrina, who entered into the pleasure of shopping. with
girlish gusto, had only selected a purple percale, which Chandy
laid, aside as soon as she pronounced' it "lovely."
"It is so, amiable, extremely so."
(471).


472       WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER..-

The firm, square step of an "American trotter" on the 'aard
road, and alight carriage drew up to the curb-stone.
"Whoa, Tramp! steady, sir!" and Otho Groenveldt.sprang
out, and offering his hand to Ruth Blair, she leaped to the ground,
and the two entered the emporium together, and passed up its
length, (regardless of the bland walker,) in deep conversation,
At a little nook of a counter, they paused, and the lady asked in
a low voice for organdies, and she turned them over, inspecting
each with a business face, but not finding what she sought. Otho
laid his hand on one she had rejected because of its price, saying
in the caressing tone he so rarely used:
"This one, Ruthie."
It was a wreath of pansies on a clear white ground, and as
sheer and fine as gossamer. Ruth looked up in his face and
smiled.
"Always violets."
"Can you wonder, when you know how the thought of my'
darling comes with them, and the hope of my, happiness ?  You-
love pansies, Ruthie; you wore a breast-knot of them yesterday;
I came near putting my lips to it in my pre-occupation. What
would you have done, if I had ?"
Ruth smiled a queer smile. She was thinking of a pair of
fresh lips which had pressed her flowers.-
"You are too discreet ever to forget proprieties, Otho,' she an-
swered.
"' It is not the frock which makes the friar,' Ruthie, but you
know what lies beneath my silence better than any person living.
Don't blush, I'm not going back to forbidden times ; here comes
our clerk with a fresh supply, but we'll take this one. And you
will finish it for the fair; and Ruthie, you mustlet me come and
look sometimes, how you get on."
"That I can't promise, Otho, but I'll do my best; only I fear it
costs too much. If it should be extravagance !"'
"What a dear,,mercenary, watchful Ruthie; but I know you
love me, you have told me so a great many times, and I believe
you. It will not be extravagance: set your little heart zt rest."

WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.,           473
It was not time for George to come home from the foundry,
but here he came, sauntering along the banquette; like a good-
feeling emperor, and Belle Brandon, exquisitely attired, walked
dl at his side. Whether it was a chance meeting or an ap-
proudl y
ointment does hot appear, but she could not have looked more
consciously radiant had he been the lawful capture of her bow
and spear.
" Come into the Bazaar, a moment George, if it will not be too
much trouble. I must buy some hair-pins, unless you are afraid
Ruth will be jealous. I fancy you are not one of the husbands
who add to their business announcements of future plans, 'W.P.
wife permitting,' however.".
"I have not so issued my cards, as yet," answered George. "I
don't imagine that my wife will take the trouble to be jealous
about the unmarketable piece of goods she possesses--a great lum-
bering giant."
She made a piquant reply, whose relish lay more in manner
than matter, and he glanced at her with such a look as one gives
to the gambols of a frisky kitten, as he walked through the door
by her side.
"Look George," said she in a low tone, laying her hand famil-
iarly on his arm. "Look, what a number of our acquaintances
we are about to meet. Chandy Goldsmith and Sabrina. Brad-
shaw, Dulcet and Captain Slocum, and can it be! Yes it is, Otho
and your wife, up yonder at the silk counter.'
George's eyes followed her's, and his forehead contracted into
a troubled frown. The pair were looking in each others faces as
if whispering.
"I wonder you permit such flirting, I do indeed !, If I were
your wife I should not like you to be so careless of my actions.
It would make me very unhappy." She spoke i a light teazing
tone, and threw into her swimming.eyes a glance which said plainly
"Oh, what bliss, if I were."
The 'purchase was completed, and while Otho waited for his
change, Ruth walked briskly down to the ribbon department.
Perhaps it was the magnetism of his presence which made her
look around, with the pleasant brightness yet on her face which


474         WIDOW -OLpStIH's DAUGHTER.
her womanly love for pretties.had given it, or it might have been
the glamior of Belle's Geraldine glance, at any rate she turned
about 'with the violet sash in her fingers, ani saw her husband and'
the beautiful blonde. She had a box of hair-pins in her hand,
and was pointing out to him the. picture oh the lid. She noted
that she looked radiant, in some sense triumphant, and that her
listener's face was genial and amused. It was a long time since
Ruth had seen him thus, and she turned her back upon the two,
bitterly angry, and contemptuous, and busied herself among the
ribbons. The thought passed through her mind that George.
might wonder at her being there, but it was blotted by a vision of'
Belle's muslin, and blue crape hat, trimmed with wind-flowers,
and turned to sourness by a survey of herself in the great mir-
ror before her. Only a brown cambric and' a gypsy hat of'her
own fabrication, as plain and simple as could be.
Belle floated up to Dulcet, whom she saluted graciously, and'
she gave her little gloved hand with affecting- candor to the
Captain. He was full of important business, looking out sharp
after Dulcet's bargains. To say truth, he had generously offered
to defray the expenses of the outfit, butshe stoutly refused, pre-
ferring to make her school money do, and he sIily and with more
delicacy than might have been expected from his gruff Texas
ways,,kept his eyes upon whatever she seemed to admire, and
when after inquiring-the price, she rejected it, he made up -his
mind to buy it himself, and 'have it in the house all ready after
the important ceremony should be consummated. " Jerusalem
crickets !" said he privately. "I may as well go the whole fig-
ure. There's no use in looking as sour as the northeast corner
of a grave yard about a-little expense. If a woman is worth
harnessing into the team, she's worth spending money on. I cack-
alate this female school ma'am shall have all the toggery she
wants," and he chuckled as he hadidone often, with a keen relish
of the humor of the scene on- the'.hill side. "-She fixed me, b.y
Jupiter t brought me right up to the rack, fodder 'or no fodder,
and she did it genteelly too.  Captain," says she, "I'll come
down alone," haw, haw ! "but she concluded to top for nie after

WIDQW GOLDS1ITR'S DAUGHTER.

47,

all, and she shan't be sorry. for her choice. I reckon she's h d
about all the pinching and saving that the law allows, Good
feeding, good times and a plenty of em. will bring her out rmaz-
ingly " It was in this state of mind that 'he volunteered to see
Dulcet through her shopping, and really enjoyed the novel sur=
rounding:of silks and finery. While Dulcet was pausing with a
wisful look.over a tempting crimson and black brocade, Belle
made her little speech.
"Shopping, Captain Slocum ! and looking as satisfied overthe
business .asany woman of us all."
" No ma'am. I can't be said to be actually shopping myself.
I'm squarin Miss Pettibone. She's got rather a heavy bill to buy,
and I'n lookin out.for these smooth tongued fellars, to see that
they ai'nt cheatin her."
" What do you'think of this silk, Belle," said Dulcet, turning.
around pleased and important, placing her finger upon the fabric;
upon which gleamed the whopper of a diamond. "Pupple is a
trying cojor, but pupple is fashionable. I'm so pufckly fastig-
ijous. I don't know which to select."
The Captain having observed that she had unwillingly rejected
the crimson brocade, replying to the clerk's earnest and confiden-
tial recommendation, "Yes certainly, unique and gorgeously
beautiful, but rather'expensive," he told'him behind his hand to
cut it off; and lump it."
"I say Captain," said saucy Chandy, "have you seen our red
cow to-day."
" Haw- haw," roared the captain, intensely-tickled. " You may
examine that little sparkler with a my-crascope, if you hanker to,
Goldsmith. It'll bear a good' strong one: not much of any chip-
pings there."
" Do let me admire your finery, Dulcet' said Belle.
Dulcet extended her hand, and Miss Brandoa looked closelyat
the stone, while the Captain rugged Chandos, and winked.
"Ef you come to the splicin, you'll see the fellar to that, here
and here," touching his scraggy throat and bronzed ears.

4

_        ";    ,
'  '


476          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
"You going to mount earrings, Captain.  Isn't that a little
heathenish.",
" She is. I've got em now," replied the Captain, slapping his
pocket, and getting purple in the face, with trying to suppress his
feelings. " She don't know it, but I've got 'em, all safe. Each
earring'is a solitary, and the handkerchief pin has got nine, about
as white stones in it as they have 'em. Ball &amp; Black ain't ne
where. 'I bought em of a Senora, and I paid for 'em. I got 'em
for an investment, and I've been carryin em round in a leather
bag. I've invested 'em now. I can afford 'em too, and "any'
thing else she takes a fancy to."
"You are a glorious trump, Captain," replied Chandy, shaking
his rough hand warmly, "and I wish you joy with all my heart. "
Belle meantime had finished her inspection of Dulcet's ring.
" Very pretty indeed, Miss Pettibone, but diamonds need such
elegant things to go with them, (looking at Dulcet's turned silk
and dyed ribbons) point lace and velvet at least. It is horrid
taste to wear them with common fabrics. You'll have put it by
till you can coax enough-out- of the Captain, or else stick to your
school-room longer."
"Thank you."   Dulcet withdrew her hand indignantly. - "I
flatter myself, Miss, Brandon, that I have dignified my occupa-
tion, and I have no need to coax Captain Slocum. Since I have
consented to accept his hand, and link our fates at the hymenial
altar, I have been only troubled to repress his ardor for lavishing
upon his affianced bride the most expensive and resplendent gifts.
As Miss Pettibone, I prefer my independence, further I will not
say.
Belle laughed, and glided off to Sabrina. " What a place for
meeting one's acquaintances," exclaimed she, greeting the Silver
Lake goddess with gushing sweetness. "You buying pretties,
too! I declare, I believe you are all going frantic over dry
goods."
" Come here, Belle, and see something," called out Pauline, dis-
playing the percale--she took the most eager interest in the shop-
ping, as soon as she found out that it was for her charming raconteur.

WIDOWs GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.            477
",That will fade ma petite, one washing will turn it into sad
colored feuille de mort."
"Chandy! Oh Chandy ! You must'nt buy the amiable dress
for Chris."
" And wherefore not, most parlous sweetness?"
"It will fade."
" Who says so," spoke up Chandy, not at all pleased-he' ad-
mired the percale.
"Belle Brandon, she just told me, please don't buy it, Chandy,
pick out another. I don't want my dear Chris to have ugly faded
old dresses any more."
"Pooh ! Nonsense, Pauline. It won't do any such thing, the
fellow said it would bear biling, and offered to chaw a piece, if I
doubted him.   You just present my compliments to that young
woman, and tell her she will fade before that does."
"I will," said Pauline,-running off delighted with her ,message.
All this while George Blair had stood gazing in sad intentness
at Ruth, who had not appeared to observe him. Now he walked
up the long store with his grand stride, as handsome and power-
ful as Prince Magnanimous in the fairy tale. Otho evidently had
rather he had stayed. away ; but he greeted him with his usual
grave courtesy. Perhaps George did not see his proffered hand;
at any rate he kept his own firmly clasped behind his back.
" The bazaar is in luck to-night. I had no idea of finding you
here, Ruth."
" I should suppose not," she replied significantly. "Neither
did I expect you at so early an hour. Of course we are both
dutifully delighted."
George looked hurt and displeased, but made an attempt to be
cheerful, without any real good humor.
" I shall, walk home with you, Ruth," said he firmly, ",when
your purchases are completed."
" Thank you, I have an escort who drives a fine horse. I can-
not find it in my heart, to disappoint him or myself in the airing
I have promised to take. Tramp is more spirited- than usual to-
night; besides I should be unhappy in breaking up a charming


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.'      479

tete-a-tete with the lovely companion you have already under-
taken to convoy, a third person is de trop. I prefer riding always
to walking, and it is a pleasure Irarely enjoy."
It did not need the hurt, grieved look on her giant's face to
make Ruth thoroughly ashamed of her flippant conclusion. She
could not have uttered it, had not Belle Brandon just then nod-
ded joyously, throwing an airy kiss. =
"QReorge," said Otho, gravely, looking from one to the other hi
diseased surprise. "Will you oblige me by taking Tramp to
drive your wife home or elsewhere, as suits her
" No sir, I will not oblige you, neither will I drive your horse.
ai not fond of driving borrowed horses, therefore till I can own-
one I will walk.
george's answer was short and given without any smile to
relieve its rudeness, and he walked off like an offended autocrat.
Belle Brandon put her hand on his arm as he passed her. "Stay,"
said she, "I have a thing to tell you."
"excuse me, I cannot wait to hear it," said he, striding on,
"Unmannerly'gianti in a pet I believe. Oh what fun to see the
teetotums spin ! Of a truth, this afternoon has been. rich, from
that change meeting up at the foundry. How odd that I should
have seen hiin in his apron and bare-armed, and how marvelously
powerful he looked ; any weaker man would have blushed to be
so caught by a girl in French muslin ; he bowed as grand and sim,
ple as a Prince.. That glen is delightful, I must go there again.
"What is the matter with George Blair ?" asked sharp little
Pauline. "tie looks as mad as a wet hen. I didn't know but he
was going to just walk over me."
"What,iindeed !" murmured Ruth among the ribbons. "The
world is going wrong way with us "both I think. You need not
wait for me, 'Otho," she said, without lifting her face. "I have
chosen the sash. The color suits exactly, a lovely shade. I must
go around to Widow 'fagan's, about Sonsie's dresses. Good night.
I'll be sure to have the dress done, and we will adorn our faces
in smiles for the occasion  'Love'to Bertha. No, do not speak
oof it. ooilbye'

Men say that women are Jesuits, but let me tell you young
wives, there are hours when it is both safe and expedient to un-
veil your souls. In the privacy of your apartments, when the
world is outside, and you've the husband safely shut in; when
you've given him his slippers and the box of best Habaneros, and
have him nicely, smoking in the great chair ; then it is. a good
plan for you to think out loud. If you are truly married it will
be safe ; for there will be no utterance £fobt rou' which will not be
pleasant to the Sposa, and you will so escape no end of misap-
prehensions and misunderstandings, secret tears, and perhaps also
wicked .unwifely thoughts. If Ruth had but done so-well!,it
no is of use saying "if."

WIDOW GO  D'S3MITI S DAUGETER.

478


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER."      481

CHAPTER THIRTY-F]IRST.
WORKING AND SINGING.
For- the next fortnight, 'young and old were busy, getting
ready for the Fair. All the fancy things had to be finished; and
Belle Brandon was as sweet and fascinating as she could be, keep-
ing the girls up to it, and they met together at the different houses,
every afternoon, and worked like busy bees, from two o'clock till
six, though the days were drowsy and sultry. In the evenings
the young gentlemen always came, and they had frolics and games,
before strolling home in pairs through the dreamy summer silence.
Sometimes they rambled off up the glen, past the rumbling,
crushing engines, resting now like cloyed monsters, except one
or two not yet satisfied, and their red fires glowed like angry eyes;
and along the grassy path to Petrifying Spring, where they
sat down on the mossy tree-trunks, and sang their own songs, to
the tinkling accompaniment of the dropping water, which filtered
through the rocks, and fell with ceaseless hurry into the dark pool
below ; and above all their sweet music rose the organ tone of
Roaring River, forever and forever speeding its sounding way
to meet the sea.'
Belle rarely refused to sing in those times, and those who heard
her never forgot the songs, even when they had ceased to speak
often of her. Such tender pathos, such deep feeling ; her listen-
ers could not choose but weep if she willed it. It would seem
hard to believe that the soul she threw into her ballads was only
manner, because her deep eyes glistened, and her voice, trembled,
and her wrapt face was tender 'and pitiful. -Sam  Slaughton
(480)

found her charming, and Jan Vedder could have kissed the ground
she trod on. In.fact, I am not sure that she did not note down a
couple of fresh offers in the little book she kept for that purpose.
She used to laugh and show it to Mary Ann, and tell her she was
preserving the volume for her grand-children.. "A little book
for them to look upon, when I am dead and gone," she said.
Even Chris forgot how tormenting she had been to her, and
the other girls took her decidedly into favor.: A4 the last they
had to go about from house to house, committees for refresh-
ments, with pencil in hand, to note down who might be counted
as providers, of cake, and who of milk and eggs for-the ice.cream;
and everybody felt relieved when Dulcet undertook the, chicken
salad; and the captain put the cow ponies at her service, and him-
self also.
Then the Town Hall had to be trimmed with ornamented and
appropriate mottoes, (flags had not come into fashion then.)
I expect these young.people will remember, all theirlives, the
sayings and doings of those two weeks. I know some, qf them
can never forget, because-.they colored their whole fug  Chris,
for one, felt very happy. Her mother.was busy doing the heavy
work with MrsJeacon Williams arid the rest, intending to sub-
stitute labor for 'money ; as. she. had less time for the Great
Tribulation, she was quite pliable, and really worked, rather
peaceably in harness with the others. Madame Groenveldt had
withdrawn her inspection (which always kept Chris in an under-
current of discomfort,) and convoyed the dear oldProfessor:home
to Rosenbloom directly after the Soyez lecture, Everything was
in train for her approaching school-life, and a most enjoyable
look-out in thatdirection; and Sabrina and, Zoe nearly protect-
ing in their goodness to her;; Otho, watchful, tender, devoted ;
Chandos, good-humored and full of gay spirits. What could she
aml more
21


CHAPTER         THhiRTY-.SECONI.
NOTHING TO WEAR.
THE eve of the important day had drawn her sable curtains
round, and Chandy was in the seventh heaven of a choice Ca-
banga, (naughty boy, he had no business to smoke,) still he looked
very comfortable sitting on the wide piazza, with his feet elevated
in the young America fashion, which so horrifies Mr. Dickens.
Of course Englishmen always keep their pedal extremities plant.
ed on their mother earth. Chris came up and dropped a light
touch upon hid shoulder.
"Chandy, dear, I am wandering in a labyrinth of perplexity.
I am forced to call upon you for aid and counsel."
"You've hallooed the right party, we keep the pure article at
this shop ; state your case. What lack you? where lies your
grief?"
"Not here; you must be in the presence of the perplexity to
comprehend and catch the clue."'
"What! up-stairs! That's a bore, a nuisance, as our friend
Cabby says. -Do you know who Cabby is ?"
SNo, unless it is short for Caliban, and I don't remember any
such utterance of his."'
"Quite a bird of another color. Cymbalius Adolphus, the
mirror of exquisites, the glass of fashion, and the mould of form.
All the fellows call him Cabby now, and hail him with a finger,
'Cab, sir!' He gets furious about it, especially when Belle
Brandon happens to hear. I expect he will fight me when he
gets his courage 'nailed."
(482)

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAULGHtTEU.            483
" Let poor Mr. Brown rest now, Chandy, (he is. a harmless
insect,) and be serious. Come along, don't be so lazy, or I'll set
mother at you with a lecture on slothful servants. Paugh ! what
a horrid smoke !"
"You really mean it !" questioned Chandy coolly, emitting the
grey vapor through his nostrils, and watching in indolent enjoy-
ment its. airy flight. "I know a cove as smokes a pipe. You
like that better, perhaps. Oh, why can't you leave a fellow
alone ! 'I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors, and
now, being full of malicious bravery, dost thou come to start my
quiet.' "
He grumbled all the way, and, yawned fearfully; but suffered
her to drag him up-stairs, allthe while perpetrating The most ab-
surdly warped quotations from his favorite study, whom the ir-
reverent young puppy was accustomed to call Billy Shakes.
On the bed lay two dresses, gossamer fabrics both ; one pure
white, the other having a tiny border of wreathed pansies on the
floating skirt and sleeves.
Chris placed in her brother's hand a note, turning aside and
busily examining the snowy robes while he read it. It was very
short.
"SAPrno: Let her be violet-crowned; I know she will be sweetly smil-
ing, These pansies are for thoughts; I shall see them to-morrow evening.
Do not disappoint me.                             OTno."
"Is'nt Mr. Otho rather rushing things, Chris? I should sup-
pose the Goldsmiths- could attend to their own getting-up as yet,
though I must say they haven't improved their privileges much in
your behalf. -Still, I call this performance a bit of impudence.
Just bundle the thing up and send it back with my complinents.
Iiow dare he take such a liberty with my sistei'-!"
"Why, Chandos ! - You said I might keep the books, you
know. I don't think it is impudence; The idea of Otho's being
impudent ! Besides, I have a confession totrkake."  Chris treni-
bled and glowed.
Candy hooded his ,handkerchief over his fore-fingers, and
held them up together, as children do when they say,'"Father,


-484       WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

I confess."  He drawled it out whimsically, and the penitent
made a low reverence-,
" Well, child, well," (Priestly confessor bows his head.)
"Father, I stole a pig,"
went on Chandy."
" Oh ! do hush, Chandy. Has life nothing real and serious for
you?"
Chandy dropped his ftn at once, when he saw her eyes full of
tears.
"Christabel, dear sister !" he looked quite another person, and
really dignified in his handsome blooming youth. "Tell me, if
you please."
"I. shall be Otho's wife," said Chris, hurrying on. "I am
promised to him. Perhaps he thinks that gives him a sort of
right. I longed to tell you, but you areso merciless."
Chandos went up .and took both her hands and kissed her
cheeks. " You make me ashamed, upon my soul you do.' Poor
friendless child ! you could not come to your good-for-naught
brother, and had nobody in whom to confide."
" Oh yes, I told Rainbow," replied Chris; smiling through her
tears. " But you hav'nt taken in the whole situation yet, Chandy.
This is Otho's dress, the pansies, [her eyes lighted at the thought,
as, the faintest pansy breath always filled her soul with emotion.
'It was the flower of remembrance']; but this one, this gem!
this snow-drop of a thing ! and just arrived. I took it in lit the
door from Dennis -Eagen, who grinned delighted. Now what
does this mean? Is it that my wardrobe is the care of the com-
munity ?"
" Well, not quite, I think. I arrogate to myself the credit of
that production. That is, the Silver Lake goddess and I evolved
from our consciousness the fact that you must have an evening
dress, and we produced it."'
".Ah! Sabrina. Well, she's kind, and you are a darling; but
does it not strike you that it is a burning shame for me to .ie

clothed clandestinely. I wonder what mother supposed I was to
appear in to-morrow evening."
" Could'nt say really. What were your own plans on the sub-
ject ? Of course you had plans. You knew I was - available if
you needed me."
Chris colored, and came down off her high horse of indigna-
tion, looking foolish and condemned.  " To speak the truth,
Chandy-"
" Certainly,. Chris. 'Thy truth, then, be thy dower !"
"I must say that I had not given a thought to my dress. I
had a set of drawings to finish, which I want to give to Ruthie,
and a white sacque for Sonsie, that I cut from an old skirt of mine ;
and the Professor asked me to help him in his translation of
Little Barefoot. You know his English is rather shaky ; and
there were fifty pages to copy. And you know we've been sew-
ing all the afternoons. I've been up at five o'clock, and have not
wasted a minute ; and really, Chandy-"
"INuff sed. Now the point is, whom will you delight to honor.
Shall it be the doctor or your devoted ?"
"You shall decide that for me, Chandy.".
"Shall I? Well. If you wer-e anybody else I should say
send the gown back thundering quick; but your's is an excep-
tional case, and I must own that Otho is an exceptional fellow.
I love him, Chris. I hav'nt forgotten 'the fool's leap.' I am
glad you love him, though indeed I foresaw the ending.  ve
turned it over in my mind a thousand times. His confounded
proud ways are trying occasionally; but he comes the nearest to
being worthy of a Goldsmith of anybody I know, and upon my
soul, Chris, I rejoice in your happiness, and under the circum-
stances I think perhaps you had better give his gift the preference.
But remember, young lady, you shall come out in mine the first
school party we have."
" There still remains a trying duty for me to go through," said
Chris, after thankfully accepting Chandos' congratulations. "
must tell mother. I could not go away from papa's house till I

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S - DAUGHTER.    480,


486         WIDOW GOLDSiaIT'S DAUGHTER.

have explained my position. I'llgo this instant and get it of my
mind. What do you suppose she will say ?"
"I don't see the particular necessity of speaking to her," re-
plied Chandy carelessly, relapsing into his laziness. " But if you
think it needful, go ahead, I give you my blessing; and now I
suppose I can get leave to finish my cigar. Poh! it has gone
out; I'must light another.
*Joys that we've tasted have been known to return,
A pipe that's once lighted may continue to burn;
But a cigar that's gone out is a paltry concern.'"
Chris appeared before her mother, and said, without taking
time to falter-..
"Otho Groenveldt has asked me to marry him."
"Asked you to fiddle-stick !"- The widow eyed her daughter
over grimly. "You're a nice article to get married!. The fools
*ain't all dead yet!"    -
She waited to, hear what Chris would say next. As she did
not open her lips, she was fain to prolong the argument by ins
quiring ;
"And pray what did your smartness tell Otho Groenveldt.".
"I told him I. should certainly be, most happy to do so, and
thanked him kindly for the honor," replied Chris, smiling bitterly.
Though she had not expected any demonstrations of affection, she
yearned for something more than this; and after listening a mo-
ment to her mother's clicking needles, and watching mechanically.
the jerk of her sharp elbow, she said, with a 'slight tremble in
her voice:
"Have you nothing to say to me, mother?. no word of love or
warning ?"
"As you seem to have got it all cut and dried without consultin'
of me, I wish lhim joy of his bargain, but - I, don't make no ac-
count of itno way; puppy-love never amounts to shucks."..
Chris turned on her heel and walked indignantly from the ma-
ternal presence. To hear her matchless Otho's fondness, grave,
dignified, manly, precious, spoken of as puppy-love !  It was
.o much!

CHAPTEk THIRTY-TiIRD.
THE FAIR.
. Trn Town Hall was all buzz and flutter, gay with lights and
greenery. There had not been such an occasion since that fourth
of July when the, young people rode around the village in a- boat
on wheels, drawn by eight horses; each maiden crowned with
flowers, and bearing aloft a little flag inscribed with the name and
motto of the State she represented; -when they tried to 'make
Dulcet take "Texas-the lone star," and she wouldn't, and the
stella glory had been borne by the labrose Adeliza Euphemia;
and they had wound up the festivities 'by a grand overset of the
amphibious conveyance, a mix up.of the northern and southern
interests, and a gorgeous ball in the evening.
I was there that time, Elinor Walsingham took me over in her
carriage. I danced with Alec Craigenfells. Heigh ho
There was a difficult task to be matured before the arrivalof
the expected crowd. The tables must be assigned to the- young
ladies.- Everybody wanted fancy things, an nobody was willing
to take the refreshments. Belle tried with sugared.words to ins
duce Zoe to have an ice cream table, but she plumply refused.
She had gotten a rare India muslin for the occasion, and looked
as fresh as a rose in it, and she had no mind to have it ornament-
ed with coffee spots, and flavored with vanilla. ,She would have
needle-booke; and she would have nothing-else. As Sabrina had
entirely provided her table with boquets and costly knick-knacks,
of course she was not to beasked, and eft whiles the Geraldine
look began to appear in Belle's face.
(487)


488        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

Chris came with Chandy. She looked wondrous fair in her
airy muslin, but the pansies at her breast quivered with her flut-
tering breath, and her face had something stormy in it. The
widow had been unpleasant about the dress, and would have for-
bidden her to appear in it, but for Chandy, who came upon the-
scene when the vituperations were culminating, and just quietly
settled the old lady, speaking to her in his droll way some very
plain truths; -andsafterwards he praised Chris, and her dress, and
hair, and kissed her fingers and her lips, and patted her pretty
neck and her arms, and told her how lovely she was, and did his
best to help her to overcome her nervousness under the appropri-
ateness of her perfect evening dress; and he talked fun to her all
the way, so that at the hall door she had turned around in impul-
.sive thankfulness and kissed him.
"You are a wonderful fellow, Chandos; I can't think where
you got so much wisdom and such power. You are but two years
older than I, and here I am a trifling child, and you are a man.
Upon my word you were terrible to-night ; I was quite afraid of
-you."
"'Jove. sometimes went disguised, and why not I?" quoted
Chandy, drily. - "I can stand a good deal of that sort of thing,
you know, Chris, and .especially from you. Now then for a gay
evening."
But Chris had been crying and she showed. it; and Sabrina
and Zoe-knew it when they went up and kissed her. Belle knew
it, and rejoiced, and she seized upon her immediately.
"I've a coffee-table for -you, dear," said she, and she turned
over in- her mind the feasibility of dashing a splash of the bever-
age over that beautiful dress at an early stage of the evening.
" Come this way, please."
" Shall you take a coffee-table, Chris ?" asked Irene Bisbee.
"I shall" taJle anything Belle pleases to give me," replied Chris.-
"I don't see any great choice of positions, and if I were to.give.-
an opinion I am afraid I should, say it is a bore to stand anywhere.
I cannot beg people:to buy, and talk to them, so I shall be but a
lay figure at the best."

fVIDOW  GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.             489
Here Zoe broke in with a laugh: " Fancy what I heard Dulcet
Pettibone say to Judge sistaire just now. There he stands, that
fine-grained, delicate-faced man."
"Something learned, of course."
"Oh no; she informed him with many smiles, that she opined
we should have a door-fee, because, as the. old woman said at the
caravan, 'it is worth quarter of a dollar to see so many men.'"
"Sensible to the last ; shows that Dulcet is assimilating to her
futor, as is very proper for her. .I can imagine the horse-laugh
with which Captain Slocum received the speech. See him look
at her!"
"I'll tell you,.Zoe, what I should like of all things to do this
evening. Ishould like to be invisible, and sketch the groups.
That marvelous head-gear of old Miss Pettengill's, and Deacon
Proddy's nose, like the tower which looketh toward Damascus,
and upon which he blows up the trumpet in the new moon; and
that Mr. Brown, with a waist like a ' pismire.;- and here comes
mine ancient enemy, Adeliza Euphemia. What a piece of work
is .she ! in form and moving how express and admirable, as Chan-
dy might say;~ the beaut of the world, the paragon of animals"
" She's that, sure, at al events," said Zoe, rejoicing over Chris
" whatever else she may be, she's a perfect animal."
" Come, come, girls, doh't let us be ill-natured," said Sabrina,
who rarely lent herself to any backbiting. " Belle is coming to
make another pounce upon Chris; she has got Irene placed, but
she cannot have Chris, she shall stand at my table and -sell the
meerschaums, (taking up one.)  I read a book lately where the
heroine's neck was compared to meerschaum clay ! suggestive,
isn't it.?"
"A change from alabaster, at any rate, which has done duty so
long"
"Bertha, you are always obliging, I need not ask you twice."
Bertha moved politely away with Miss Brandon, and Sabrina
said:
" Belle's virtue is rewarded, she has found an ally at last. Now
Chris, you are to keep at my sideT; I shall shelter your simplicity,.


490        wiD0poGQLDSy;TAI'S DAUGHTE.

WIDOW GOLDS3WIII's PSDAUQaTmEI 44

and catch }the lenefit-of: yo r :original repark,; sp.you are not to
drop o  nto ne of your everies,,but ix yourattention upon the
gay and festive scenes for my benefit."
"Yes, Chris and I'll be on your left, and if thereis any fun
floating about, we will get the full good of it. I put as many
stitches as anybody into these butterflies, Ihave the liking of'
association for ,them,,and I will sell them. every one at ,a high
price."
"Just for one minute imagine the speech Dame Williams did
me the honor to address to me," said Sabrina, drawing herself p,
"'Here, you Sabriny, you ain't afraid of nothing, you shall ,sell
the night-caps; they ain't-worth a continental darn, and it'll take
cheek to get rid of 'em'"
" Shall that part be assigned to the one who has the most
.cheek?" asked Chandy, whohad drawn near unperceived.
'So sayeth the;dame," replied Zoe.
"Don't trusthim, Zoe," said Susie Jenkins, softly; look at his
eyes.'"
"It is proper for us to measure and- ascertain who it shall be."
Saucy Chandy brought his phiz close to Zoe's velvety face,
before Susie's warning.was fairly uttered, for which he ,got what
he. deserved, a smart box~on theear.-
"You 'would. never think of treating Sabrina in that way,"
said .Zoe,, coloring violently, and -glancing hurriedly around.
" Sabrina, fair, devout and pure,
Sober, steadfast, and demure,'
said Chandy, bowing, and applying his handkerchief, to his ear,
as he sauntered off in pursuit of more mischief. He came close
to Pauline, and Gracie Jenking, and had .. quiet little lapgh'
They had been wandering hand in hand, with Dick as escort, uyp
and down the hall,:peering, listening, and ;getting fun out offev-
erything, and paused by Mrs. Esquire Witchco k, who was cut-
tng up cake as if slaughtering an animal, her gown tucked
out: f Jharm's, way, and giving a view ofher petticoat,,showy
with black braid.

"See,"-said Pauline," Mrs. Hitchcock:has .got fiverows of:grief
around her petticoat, and three on her handkercha. She's mourn-
ing dreadfully. for somebody."
Before 'he .had finished ;laughing, he heard Otho, speaking to his
(Chandy's) mother,.who was nursing .her finger.
"J;hope you have not injured the bone, madam; it was ase-
vere blow'; -permit me to examine it."
Ef tit'll.do you any good to speer at an old woman'ssclaw, do
look," said the :lady, thrusting :out her hand,;and rregarding the
young doctor with: a most verjuiee aspect.
" Let me recommend a little whisky, :as-we have noarnica at
hand, madam;,it will reduce the swelling. Permit me."
":I don't never use no liquors, Inside nor out."
"A little salt and vinegar."
"I use that on old brass:kettles."
:Chandy passed on, leaving the :doctor to :get through as he
could ; but when he looked around, :hesmiled, for Otho held the
widow's hand in 'his, andwas quietly adjusting a bandage uponsit.
'Belle Brandon was as .soft and.sweet and -harmless as a baby,
when she:had got everything arranged,:and placed her plumpness
behind the urn. She consoled 'herself that she could show off
her bust and her.round arms :i presiding over the fragrant bev-
erage, besides having more gentlemen than ladies for customers.
Her blonde curls fell in :light and airy -profusion around her
creamy face,.lighted .with its peach bloom, like the-bright side of
a rare-ripe ,her white dress, unrelieved by a particle:of color;
strings of rare pearls -adorned her neck and :.arms,.which her
Aunt Isadore had lent her for a tableau the last-night of her stay
in town,;for the same reason that brought the unjust 'judge:to rise
and -give justiceto the poor widow, and -which =theartless child
'had forgotten to replace 'in their casket. -But then, she had,,to
get up and dress before: dawn thenextmorning, andof course she
huddled:everything into her trunk in a desperatehurry.
She managed.:her vocation with exquisite ,grace; her role:for
the evening was popularity; -she talked with everybody,standing
in the gracefulest of attitudes, her full infant waist displaying the

1. t
/
t'5

491


492         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER..

matchless beauty of her almost too well developed bust for her
sixteen years.
If she heard the remark of a young farmer to. his friend :
"'Come, Stephe, let's have a cup of coffee from this pretty one
who's forgot to put her dress on to her,"-I say if she heard the
remark, it did not in the least discompose her-; she offered him'
the cup with such bewitching innocence and such a trusting look
right into his eyes, as a girl gives to a dear brother, and it effect.
ally stopped the bold speech upon his lips ; he found it impossi-
ble to discourse lightly in the presence of such snow-white purity,
and he gulped down his coffee and retired, painfully conscious of
his large-handed awkwardness, and ashamed of his wicked'
thoughts ; and did not come back to get change for the V which'
Miss Brandon. dropped into her bank, with a grateful bow.
But the Geraldine look would come into her- eyes when she
glanced across to the long table, where the three friends were chat-
ting and laughing, supported by more beaux than she thought
good for them; not but she had plenty-Jan Vedder never left
her side except to fetch and carry for her like a silly puppy;
Cymbalius Adolphus maneuvered his crush hat, and put on his
nose-nippers, and said "ma foiL" and propounded innumerable
conundrums; and George Blair came and stood there also, with
folded arms, and looked over the crowd with about as much inter-
est in their comings and goings as the, stately obelisk takes in
the caravans which wind about its base. He smiled good-natur-
edly 'when Belle spoke to him, and undid his arms and helped her
withthe coffee when- she desired, him, and then returned again
into silence and his far-off contemplations.
Belle could no more help;studying those who. approached her,
than she could refrain'from drawing the fragrant breath which
lifted her snowy robe ; picking out the ludicrous from their atti-'
tudes and behavior, and slyly enjoying her favorite amusement,
which she called quizzing, and which made the, victims writhe
without always being conscious what hurt them; playing skill-
fully upon their vanity, self-love, and other small weaknesses;

WIDOW GOLDSMITil'S DAUGHTER.             493
and she never looked so joyously childish, so bewitchingly simple
as when thus occupied.
Dulcet was prancing abbut the hall, leaning ostentatiously upon
the arm of her betrothed, inspecting the tables, discoursing in
polysyllables, and watching the sales with great interest, provok-
-nk
ngly wide-awake and happy. She released 'her gallant escort a
moment, to pick up a meerschaum from Sabrina's table, and task
the price in a mysterious whisper ; and while Sabrina and she
talked with their heads together, naughty Chandy took the oppor-
tunity to inquire--
"Well, Captain, how do you like it as far as you have got?"
"She's as prompt as a lVMajor, Goldsmith," replied the Captain,
confidingly, "and as spry as a Jerusalem cricket, and well worth
the money I've put in the pool; consequently you can hold your
bosses, sir, and let her quilt."
The Captain was gotten up with elaborate. care, and had dyed
his whiskers, as well as the skin beneath them, so that he ap-
peared to a close observer to have a birth-mark on either cheek,
of .a neat chestnut brown. He took -such tremendous care of
Dulcet that her cork-screws were all of. a quiver with youthful
animation, and he stepped about so grand, with his toes out, and
his stiff collar sawing his ears, that Belle felt the most intense
amusement, and considered the pair a shining mark ; besides, what
business had such a faded old creature as Miss Dulcet, whose.life
had been all hard lines, to look so satisfied.
Belle left her table and floated up to the couple, all dimples
and snowy muslin, and crossed her two rosy hands over Dulcet's
long, slim, white one, which rested on the Captain's arm, and put
up her face close to his, brushing his coat sleeve with her floating
locks, exhaling her perfumed breath in a soft sigh:
"I'm so tired, Dulcet, and you look too happy, you people ; it
is quite time to dissolve the spell. I must have her a minute, Cap-
tain, she is manager, you knw, and has duties; so don't break
your heart at the absence, just one minute, and no more."
The Captain squirmed uneasily under Belle's eyes, and made
a remark on the habits of Jerusalem crickets, which was so mixed


WID W  Ov ;r Iv DLIJIER             Wt   AW'OLP5 s aTII 'S  kTn iTht496

as to be unintelligible, and Belle linked her arm .into Dulcet's
and drew her away.
"Uere are these nice hats,".said sheconffidentially, taking up
a couple of ;crotcheted eats, with vast brims and no crowns to
speak of,. and as stiff and white as limestone, which were the won-
drous handiwork of old Miss Pettengill. -" I'm really troubled
over them. :I fear they will not sell. She will be wretched
about it, and she's a nice old creature. Suppose you and I were
just to put.them on, and wear.themfor a few minutes; your feat-
ures are so exceedingly delicate, that you can bear .the style better
than any of us. I really don't know another girl in the room
that I would:ask to help me show them off."
Dulcet simpered, and felt buttered, but she said, doubtfully,
"Won't .Captain Slocum-he's so pufficly fastigious."
"Oh, nonsense, Miss Pettibone. You're not going to let him
breathe for you I hope,, and such stores of learning as you have !
You know quite well that we are all afraid of yous; absurd !"
While she talked, Belle placed one of the wonderful.fabrica-
tions upon Miss Dulcet's.head, and looked at it, and peeped under
t in admiring rapture.
"Is'nt it rather--stiff?",askedMiss Dulcet, rolling up her eyes
at the brim, and placing a timid forefinger upon its unyielding
edge.
",Not at all! ] assure you.the effect is.gorgeous, with your curls:
If we only had some of those marvelous pink bows under{the
chin, which you wore upon your riding hat, I could'nt :answer for
Captain Slocum's peace of mind. -Diamonds would'nt save him.
.ositively, you; rpst have .it for a garden hat to wear on your
lawn,,you know, when you walk after dinner with your hus-
band, and .look at your pigs.;,come now, let's make a tour of the
hall."
"But why don't you don yours. I can't appear alone, the blaze
of  so many admiring, eyes will.kill me. I'm so pufficly fastigions."
"Oh don't think I shall let you carry off all the smiles. Could
not be so disinterested. You must save a small  share for poor
little, ne."  telle swung:.the hat into{the top, of her curls and

looked like a beautiful peasant going . Maying, . and leaning;on
Dulcet's arm, she:sailed =through ,the -hall- with ,downreast face,
her veiled ey s swimming in fun, which drew up the corners .of
her ripe mouth ,in a bewitching bow. ,,Chandy:espied them first,
and stood stock still, gazing in-astonishment,,and Cabby stuck-on
his nose nipper and struck an -attitude,,and;old Miss .Pettengil, for
whom Dulcet's movements seemed to have a peculiar fascination,
nudged Mrs.:Hitchcock.
"Well! if that creator ain't peculiar., My:!how folks ean."
Chandy stopped them. "By Jove, Miss Dulcet,,you look as
dignified as a:toad Sunder a cabbage leaf," said;he.
" Come away from that pest," whispered Belle, "let us stand
together at mytable, in.a picturesque way, and.you'll soon see how
much attention, we shall attract." She threw Chandos such :a queer
glance as she floated.on, that he saw through the whole at once.
"Wicked little Jezebel," was his mental comment.  " She's
nearly bursting over the guy she's made of -that- poor wisp of a
teacher ;" and he followed tosee the end.
" Don't let's ask less than five dollars for our hats, we'll get
it easily enough."
Pretty soon the Captain came up, and stopped, and looked an
instant 'before-he gave tongue.
" Have the goodness'to explain, ma'am, what you've put your-
self under that infernal old frying-pan for."
" We want to make them sell," faltered:Dulcet, looking .pained
and mortified, "and we placed them upon our heads to bring them
into notice."
"The hats, you mean, not the heads,"-corrected Belle,Aemurely.
" If you want to'get sold, you will do the job fast..enough., I
:wonder if you have any idea how.like the northeast corner of a
grave yard you look."
People passing, caught the sound of the Captain's excited voice,
and stopped and gazed at Dulcet and .then at Belle, :and; smiled,
and the poor creature began to regrether ;too.ready compliance
with Belle's proposition, ht she tried to appear not .to notice.
," If you don't take off that iron-clad, .MissPettibone, you'll.be

7;          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGIITER.

f


496      .WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       47

sorry," said the Captain in an aggravated undertone. "I shan't
stand being made a laughing stock of, not for the best female school-
ma'am goin."
".Ha t ha! Captain Slocum," laughed Belle. " I like your
style. -I think instant obedience should be the motto of every
family. -Of course Dulcet, you must not wear the hat, pretty as
itis, after that."
" I am accustomed to command morigeration myself, sir, and
shall not be ordered by a, man," replied Miss Dulcet with dignity.
"Yes you will, by thunder. Take it off or I'll knock it off."
Poor Miss Dulcet was very red, and the Captain was redder,
and she was in a way to forget the danger of displeasing her
choleric friend, and of course could not touch the hat after his
last outbreak. She glanced around wondering how many had
heard it, and bit her lips and looked obstinate. Belle felt sure
they were in for a good quarrel, perhaps a break-off, and ex-
pected to see the Captain make his threat good.
Chandy interfered, saying, " Miss Dulcet, allow me," he lifted
the hat from her head with a polite how, and put it on his own,
all on one side like a Bowery swell, and stuck his tliumbs in his
vest.
" What's the price, Belle," asked he. " I'm making up relics,"
" Twenty dollars, sir," replied Belle, easily, opening her rosy
palm for the money.
" Very well done. Don't tell of me Dulcet, 'how I was cozened
by the way,' and lost all my money, but only say, ' there are coz-
eners abroad, therefore it behoves men to be wary.' Please,
ifopsa, to invest that in ' moral pocket handkerchers,' and keep
one as a souveneir, and for your private reading."
"I'll take'your's, Miss Brandon," said Jan Vedder, not to be
outdone in generosity. "And I'll never forget whose lovely head
it has adorned."
" Ah, poor Jan," sighed Chandy, patting his shoulder, " that's
what the matter is, or any.other man."
" I wish' you would order half a dozen more, Miss Brandon,
we must all have some, capital for fishing," said Sam, laughing.-

. "Motley's the only wear, you see, Captain."  Chandy put his
arm within the Captain's and lead'hirn off and pinned him, against
the wall, and stood.in front of him with a hand on either shoulder,
and shook him softly while he lectured him.
"Now Captain," (in an affecting and impressive manner,) ".I
am older than you, and ever so much wiser, and upon my word,
I am surprised at you. You must not speak to such a fine crea-
ture -as Miss =Dulcet in that abrupt way. Why inari, we= all look
up to her with the- vastest respect. What she does not know is
not worth knowing ; an ornament to society, and if she conde-
scends to smile. on you, you are honored ; besides Captain, you
can't break a woman as you would a mustang."
The contrast between Chandy and the Captain, in their respec-
tive positions, was ludicrous in the extreme, and the Captain
seemed-to feel and enjoy it in a dry way. "You're a pert young
rooster," said he, laughing, "but you're about half right. I
did'nt ought to blow at her. I hav'nt paid the Parson for her
head yet, and till I do, I've no business to have much to say ; but
did'nt she look like sixty in that machine."
" No, I should say not more than half that, settled .and, digni-
fied; better go and make it up, Captain."
"Think so ?" asked the Captain, looking across at her, out of
the corner of his eye. " She won't expect any great come down
will she? could'nt go down on my knees no, how ; spoil my
breeches, besides, if we are going to Work in harness, she's got
to understand that the gray mare can't be the better horse in my
team."
" Oh certainly, Captain. She has good sense as well as learn-
ing, no nonsense, or woman's rights about her."
4 Make a fine looking old lady won't she, Chandos,? bear fat-
ting up, good feed and a warm stable, that's my way."
"That's it, Captain, that's the basis. Now don't waste the
minutes."
" But Chandy," said these Captain, playing off, "I guess I won't
be in a hurry,'she'll keep; let's talk about breaking horses a spell:
I can tell" you a thing or, two about; that. They used to bring


498        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'DOS - DAUGHTERS

them to me off the other ranches, so fierce that t'would take
two men to hold 'em, and I'd let them out as gentle as Jerusalem'
crickets. Now my way was this, (he let' go. of Chandy's but-
ton, and struck his forefinger into hig palm, and forgot all about
Miss Dulcet in his ardor for his favorite theme.)  You take a
wild mare and tie ip her fore leg, :and show her the halter, and-
whisper to her, and let her feel the bit, and she'll soon know your
hand, and come and lick it. I never touch a-whip to 'en. Why,
LordI Chandy, they used to follow me all around the pen-"  -
".Exactly," cut in. Chandy, trying to look grave. "That is
science. You try that method on Miss Dulcet, and you'll find it
will work like magic.".
"Well, I believe I will, haw, haw! You young scalawag, I'll
go now.".
As Captain Slocutn was a real whole hearted good fellow, and,
liked Miss Dulcet, he was man enough to go directly to her and-
ask her pardon. She had seated herself forlornly in the corner,'
and was too deeply grieved at her own folly to need much coaxing,
and a few words made it all right, and her poor lonely old heart
warmedup with real affection for the honest man who spoke such
good words even if he was a something rough, and their chances of
happiness together were not lessened by Belle's little amusement.
As soon. -as Chandos saw the Captain safely under way, he
turned gaily off to Miss Belle, who murmured "tiresome cock-
atoo !" anddarted a vicious look at him, which dissolved like magic
into a. merry smile, as she caught his eye. She had occupied'
herself in studying Miss Dulcet, pricking her with aggravating
consolations, till the poor creature could stand no more, and- was
fain tw retire and hide her tears.
Chandy took out his handkerchief andflourished it, and wiped
his face and fanned it, asif reduced to the last stage of exhaus-
tion.
" Mopsa Pandora, give me a cup of coffee," said he faintly, I
am as dry as dust, with mollifying the Captain ; patching up your
work, repairing your wickedness. I don't know but it is my duty
and mission to marry you andget you out of the way. Certain-
ly you are as beautiful as a butterfly, and as industrious as a bee."

" Oh, thank you, sir, what a pretty, compliment, though I don't
know what you have seen of my labors to deserve it$ unless you
refer to the Fair. I flatter myself this is rather a brilliant suc-
cess. I've been faithful over a few things. My Mary Ann for
one; but when we speak of beauty, the charming anecdote you
did me the honor to relate on that topic is yet fresh in my
memory."
" That is as it should be: but iKopsa Pondora, I shall, not marry,
you for your looks, but that I may direct your industry into its
proper channel to keep your idle hands from the work which that
old fellow behind you is cutting out for them. (Belle threw an
involuntary glance over her shoulder, as Chandy pointed, and
could have slapped him for getting her to do it.)  I feel that I
need some absorbing occupation which shall be almost too much
for me. Therefore speak, or forever hold your peace. You
know you and Fate fixed it up among the daisies. Give me time
to swallow my coffee, and then I'll spread my handkerchief and go
down on my knees."
Belle put on a touching expression, and offered the cup with
sad tender grace.. "Take it Mr. Goldsmith, I may say. Dear
Chandy. If I could only give you the boon you seek, as.readily
as this fragrant tipple! but you make:it my painful duty to say the
fatal no, to your very kind.offer. The highest compliment a man
can offer to a woman. (I say man prospectively of course.)  I
feel for you. I should like to be tied to you a couple of weeks
well enough, but for a life time, 'lllafoi! celafait dresser les
cheveax a la tete.' It may be my vocation to lead apes, but I am
in no hurry. To quote from your favorite author whom I've been
studying up on purpose to converse with you, 'I'd rather eat
cheese and garlic in a windmill, than live in a summer house with
you.'- And besides, what would pretty mistress Bertha say, if she
knew you had been making mad love to me. It rather strikes
me Mr. Goldsmith needs a watcher, but I won't tell. I pledge
you my word.-. Now.don\tsgo and hang yourself, don't, forgive me,
it could not be,:let us be friends."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.'',


500 .WIbow GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER       .501

She held out her hand with one of her wicked smiles, and
Chandy looked extremely silly. He was taken aback for'once in
his life, and Billy Shakes could not, save him. - He had before
tried to stop, her voluble utterances by muttering something about
being in joke, which did not help his plight any, and now Belle
dropped him a curtesy.
" In my new character of .oMpsa Pandora, I should like to,
chant a little ditty to you before I go." While Chandy's gaze was
fixed on her face, in the twinkling of an eye, it underwent a change.
" For sweet charity ! kind friends.!" she said,,.in plaintive accents,
which served to arrest the steps of a knot of gentlemen. In a,
soft contralto, she chanted just loud enough for those -close about
her to catch the clear liquid notes:
"This youth was fair and tender,
And begged of me to wed,
But he's much too fond of a bender,
Nay ! better lead apes, I said."
Swinging off her hat she held it out. " Give to a poor girl,
gentlemen. Starving is a fearful death to die. I was as well
raised as you, and hav'nt always sung for my bread. Pity me,
sirs."  She turned her-face aside, and coughed a regular church-
yard cough, and actually her features got pinched and pale, her
eyes threw wild dlespairing glances around, and she staggered,
and held up by the table. The group looked uneasily at her, and
as-if under a spell, they threw money into the hat. She paused
before Chandy. "For sweet charity, sir," and Chandy's hand
fumbled in his pocket, and-drew out a handful of change which
he put in without taking his eyes off her.
"Many thanks, gentlemen. Indeed it it a good cause."  She
laughed merrily and bowed, her .face changing back to dimples
and, archness. " Au revoir, Mr. Goldsmith," she added, turning her
back upon the others, and speaking low. "I think we are quits
now. I am of opinion I did that very nicely,. every bit as well as
May Edwards. - I think sometimes I'll try the stage, just for the
excitement of the life." With sweeping grace she sailed off, and

put her hand on George's arm, who stood, leaning absently against
a pillar, and watching Ruth, with grave, sad intentness. She was
talking in a loud voice, with quick utterances and vivacious laugh-
ter, the center of. the group about the round table, where Christa-
bel and Otho were standing.
"Jupiter, what a stunning girl that is, Knox! Who do you
suppose she is ? I've a great mind to stop over on purpose to
pony up to her."
" And so be too late for the race ; no Nickson, no such noi-
sense as that. I've a blamed deal too much at stake, though I
know you're just fool enough to do it; but I shan't leave you be-
hind."
" But she's such a spirited little filley. 'Gad ! how she man-
aged her face. I hav'nt seen such a pair of eyes since Nora's
time."
" She's an ugly devil, or I miss my guess. If she don't murder
somebody it'll be because she drops off too quick to finish the
job. She's got a savage inside of her, if I'm any judge. . Come
on, we shall be late for the train."
" Oh I shall go, since you badger so about it; but I'll see her
again: when my blood jumps like that it means something. If
she's a savage, all the better."
"Very well, as often as you like and she'll consent to; though
I've a notion you'll come to grief if you do. There ! wasn't that
the whistle ?"
The talkers were horsey, turfy looking sports, and they left-the
hall as they had come in, together. But they left also a pile of
bills in Belle's hat, which I suppose she put into the wooden bank
on her coffee-table.
In the meantime George had freed himself from  Belle, and
walked away, being in no mood to-night for her blandishments ;
and Bertha and-she stood together, when Dame Williams bustled
up to her.
"Brandon, don't you think it is about time to variagate the ex-
ercises with our post-office ?  The folks are pretty nigh 'as thick
as they will be."  She always called her Brandon when she


0

502

WhIOW -OLDSMITH'SDAUGHTER.

wished to be pa t icularly stylish.  She heard some traveling
singers address each other by their surnames' at.Savin roek and
thought' it 'sounded fine.
" Certainly, Williams," replied Belle, making a wry face to
Bertha, who could not help laughing; "'as soon as you like. lie
is all ready to come -in."
" Well, you go and start him up, and take your place, post
mortem."-
'When I enter the next sphere post mortem, I shall not be
post mistress," said Belle as she sailed away.
" What did Brandon refer to? I 'did'nt seem to sense her,"
asked Mrs. Williams.
Bertha was spared the trouble of explaining, for a tremendous
" toot, toot ! toodle too," sounded in their ears, and arrested the
talking, and turned all eyes to-the door.
" Act first, scene first," said Chandy. " Enter a king and two
trumpeters."
The three were all comprised in the person of Jan Vedder, who
came pushing in, elaborately gotten up in shaggy overcoat,'Cali-
fornia hat, vast neck-tie, horseman's boots, carrying a fearful whip
over his shoulder, and dragging in his wake a real mailbag, bor-
rowed from Uncle Sam for the occasion: and performing at iater-
vals, with excruciating effect, upon the tin horn.
"Very good, Vedder, very good indeed; quite English, ex-
tremely like a real guard."
" Thank you, Cabby," replied Jan, who knew 'England thorough-
ly, all its highways and by-ways; (lazy merry-hearted vagabond
that he was, he did the rambling tour on foot and in lively com-
pany.)  " But you are clouded in a little mistake. - This is the
overland California. Make way, gentlemen, -if you want your
letters. Had three horses shot -under me; footed it twenty miles ;
swam two rivers with the bag}in my teeth; fought a Camanche,
and came mighty near leaving the bag and. my bones under the
dead leaves ! Make way!' Good news for you from your sweet-
hearts'!"
Everybody fell back, laughing and applauding, and the over-

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

503

land disappeared within a green baize apartment, having a square
hole for a window, at which Miss:Brandon's charming ,head was
visible, arrayed in a neat little frilled -cap and jaunty ribbons, a
pair of steel spectacles across her pretty nose, without any glasses,
and her shoulders covered with a scarlet cloak: all ready to offi-
ciate with busy zeal as post mistress. Her bands were. full of
letters, which she presented with lively grace. Of course each'
victim was obliged to accept his- missive, amidst much laughter
and joking, and hand up the postage.
"Letter from Patagonia, for Deacon Williams; very thick and
heavy ; is doubtless a request for the immediate establishment of
a Gonecusset branch among the enterprising natives, who are, as
the little boy said who learned his answer for one and got :the
wrong question-' Who settled America?' asked the, teacher; 'ser-
pents and alligators of an enormous size 1' spoke lup the boy.
Here it is, deacon."
The worthy man, who had been looking on enjoying the scene,
and had rallied his conferees and advised them . to " pay up,"
~rather wilted now, and laughed the other side of his mouth, and
made no show of approaching till pushed forward by those around
him.
" For the good of the Chuich, deacon ! feed the hungry and
clothe the naked," whispered Zoe.
He- fumbled his wallet awhile, but finally handed up -the five
dollars, which was the regular postage upon Patagonia letters, and
he, stood twirling the packet in his fingers, while the Gonecusset's
laughed at him.
"Sonsie Eagan, you go right away and fetch me that letter.
I'm goin to read it."  Mrs. Williams had seen Zoe whisper to
the deacon behind her hand, and she knew him too well.
"And is it the letter, ma'am!1"  Sonsie had recourse to -her
favorite attitude. " And what shall I say to him that :I'll fetch
it ?"
"Say I want it. Tell im to hand over if he knows what's
good for himself. Ill have no getting letters from whisperin
mixes.".


WIDOW GOLD,5ITII'S DAUGHTER.     ,505

Dame Williams was very angry and jealous to see the deacon
the center of the merry group, chatting, laughing, coaxing him
with extended hands. .She knew his weakness for pretty girls,
and how easily they could charm away his money. Sonsie pushed
her way boldlythrough, and extended her hand with the others.
" You're to hand over the letter, sir !"
" What do you mean by such impudence !"
"Sure 'twas the mistress' self told me to say it," spoke up Son.
sic, unabashed. "Ef you' know what's good for yourself she'll
have no getting letters from minxes, nor whisperin nather."
The deacon slunk away in the roar of laughter which followed,
while Sonsie stood still, covering his exit with her eyes, and keep-
ing her hand out, though the mischief in her face belied the open
candor of her attitude.
Meanwhile the. distribution progressed, with various effects
upon the recipients. There were the usual amount of platitudes,
a good deal of personality, hitting of sore places; but no one
could be called to account, for the letters were4all withdrawn from
a locked box, which had been four or five days suspended from
the church door. The mail was immense, and Belle kept hand-
ing out letters from Peru, Egypt, from Abyssinia, from Turkey,
and all sorts of distant places. The Roaring Riverites must have
been cosmopolitan in their associations. The Gonecusset's had
been bled profusely, and the young men began to look blank when
they got the third and fourth epistle, and were obliged to .claim it
orfeel mean; especially the clerks aid those who could ill afford
the out-lay. Church fairs are merciless. Once in, you can no
more hope to get out than you could from the maelstrom. They
spin you round till they empty your pockets ; the last farthing
has got to. come,' especially with beau-tiful Brandon's for sales-
women.,
Mr. Growing was standing back in the hall with George Blair:
companions, though each was silently thinking; when the pastor
heard his name called out, and' Chandy came up with a letter,- on
which he had paid the foreign postage, and handed it to him. He
took it with a smile, and tore it open..

"I had no idea I should be favored by the Patagonians," said
he. A look first of surprise, then of grief, spread  over his face,
where the care lines were deep already. He handed it to George
with a-sigh.
"I did not know I had an enemy in my parish."
" Enemies !" returned George, with a bitter laugh. "Easy
enough to find enemies, but friends ! search for them with .a light-
ed candle ;" and he added to himself, " a man's foes are they of
his own household."
"Ef you wood leve of succolatin subscriptions and mind your
preachin, and also ef your wife wood leve of dressin quite so fine
and playin on the music all the while, and du a little work, your
pot wood bile faster."
"The cloven foot sticks out, Fred," said George,-as he handed
it back. ."She's of no account anyhow. I should not trouble
myself.- Just light your pipe with it and make an end of it""
"She, who? Pray do you know' whose is this miserable
abuse ?"
"There she stands, 'fair, fat, and forty."  He pointed to the
deaconess, who was still watching her husband's motions; she
thought she detected unusual friskiness in him, whether 'inspired
by the atmosphere of youthful jollity he had been inhaling, or
three or four glasses of Harmony sherry he -had imbibed with
Captain Slocum 'under the rose.' The Captain kept choice
wines, and the deacon sometimes partook,,though he was a leader
in the temperance movement, and he had spoken only the Sun-
day before to the Band of Hope, with more earnestness than
pure English.
",Impossible, George.. Why, it would take the heart of a 6iger
to do such a thing, so; mean, cruel, cowardly."
" Well,.she; is ;bout half tiger--a fat tiger; she used to. drag
Baxter.to school in a halter. -The poor-house,children she adopts
don't-;find her. a saint. They say.she scratches the deacon's face
occasionally."
".You are joking, George"
"I'm afraid he finds it a. sorry joke, then ;.- he dares not say his
soul is his own, if he's got a soul, which I consider doubtful."

Z04       WIDOW, GOLDS IITI H'S DAUGHTER.


506      .  WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"George 1" said the young preacher, reproachfully.
George laughed without any mirth. " Oh well, Fred, you need
not be in any doubt about your letter, she wrote it fast enough,; she's
forgotten her spelling-book, and adopts th6 phonographic method,
but the spirit and the orthography both declare the authorship."
"But she is a firm friend of ours; she patronizes my wife,"
said Mr. Growing, with a half-smile.
"I can't credit such a phenomenon as her feeling friendship for
anybody except Mrs. Deacon Williams. Have they approved
your building scheme ?"
"He did second me warmly, and put down a header of a thou-
sand, but afterwards he turned cold."
" That's it, she keel-hauled him, and forbade the gift. He's a
curious old file; runs the church; half the wood burnt there
comes from his pile, and the oil from his barrel; but you have
any dealings with him and you may know that you are a gimlet
if he don't get the best of you; he fleeces his workmen system-
atically."
"Why George, old friend, you rail like a kate ; it sounds oddly
enough, such talk fromyou. I thought all your clouds had silver
linings."
"Oh well, Fred, you call these men christians; you pull in
harness with them; a set of twisting knaves, all tricks and
sharp bargains on the week-days, and praying saints on Sun-
day.' Upon my word, I wouldn't trust them with the contribution
box without counting the pennies first. Things are something
mired in this world, I think."  George passed his hand through'
his hair with a weary gesture.
"Dear friend,.it pains me to hear you talk in this strain; come,
it isn't so very many years since you and I slept in the' same bed
in that old barn of a dormitory, and. I used to help you with your
particles then; n w I. want your assistance. Come into. the
church, George; put. your shoulder to .the wheel, 'tis a powerful
one ; bring your brain and muscle into - the right work. You'd
make a glorious worker ! do, friend of gmy boyhood."
"Why, Fred, do you recognize in me one of the elect? alas,

old fellow, I'm farther off than ever ;" George laughed. "The
Methody parson wants me, too; begs of me to 'come out,' but
his creed don't seem to fit my-case, because, as Byron says, '-even
the most righteous may get a slip in his faith which shall throw
him on his back like- a skater, while gliding smoothly on to his
paradise.'"
"It is a very pretty beginning of faith in a man to believe in
his wife," said Mr. Growing, smiling into George's 'eyes, as if
certain of an answering kindly glow.
But George -colored, and looked away off, and stood silent.
Presently he said :
"Fred, may I advise you? I have never felt myself worthy, to
take the place you"offer me ; less than ever now, and I need
counsel, more than you can possibly imagine ; counsel which no
one can give me."
Mr. Growing looked surprised, and was about to speak ; he
fancied that his friend's eyes were humid, and his voice certainly
trembled, who hurried on:
" Don't try to get a new church ; you'll have to go through fire
and water to compass it, and if you succeed, which is doubtful,
you will not stay to preach in it. Even now they are at work in
an underhanded plot; this letter is a sample of it."
Mr. Growing was thoughtful a few minutes. - It may be so;
but that does-not alter in the least my plain duty. I shall go on;
we need a new church, and we must have it, and Deo volente, we
will have it. The bats dwell in the crevices, wasps build, and spi-
ders spin; mould and damp festoon the walls, the whole concern is
a disgrace and it has got to come down ! I shall stay to see a good"
solid church edifice rise from its ruins, even if I have to pack off.
the day of its completion. 1:can find a field elsewhere; my Father
will give me work enough to do, while I stay, and I -shall not.
have to run about and hunt it, either, and my successor shall. find
a temple suitable for the worship of the living God."
"Of such stuff were the martyrs made," said George, looking
at his friend's flushed face with a loving gaze.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHPEfl.   507,


.508          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
You think me an enthusiast in church architecture," said the
m nister, smiling ; "but I don't mind your laughing at me."
"You always were, an enthusiast, Fred. Does it ever strike
you oddly that you and I, after drifting apart so widely, should
float together again in this nook of the earth, which wasn't down
on our map of the world in those times? I was'a rich man's son,
then."
"I remember the day when the news came to school of the
great change in your fortunes. I was the only one you.would let
near you."
"It knocked me flat for awhile, didn't it, Fred? but I got over
it ;. I'm a jolly blacksmith now."
Mr. Growing looked earnestly at him; he wondered where the
jollity had gone, and he was turning it over in his mind when Sam
Slaughton come up, holding out a handful of letters.
" You are in luck, Mr. Growing, and the best of the joke is,
they are all paid. Here is one for you, Blair-only a dime ; the
powers that be are more merciful than to us fellows; we've had
to smoke for our correspondence.",
" Poh, a pack of follies !" said George, impatiently, handing
out his dime, and pocketing the epistle without even looking at it.
"Why did you touch them, Fred ?" he laid his hand upon Mr.
Growing's shoulder, whose face was crimson and then pale, indig.
nant; and sorrowful by turns. " It is treacherous cruelty, a stab-
in the dark; burn them, old fellow."
Mr. Growing's enemies had made the post'office the vehicle of
conveying to him, their sentiments. He had invitations to resign,
hits on his person and ministry, his private life. He folded them
all together after perusing them,
" I will file these away among my valuable papers , we can
learn from what our enemies say of us our true characters, and I
will take occasion to look carefully into my life. But I shall not
resign, nor will I be dismissed till my work is finished. I'll build
my church in spite of them, and they shall help.'
"Got any letters, George ? asked Chandy, who came sauntering
up, with his hands full.. " I think I have offered up about a score

WIDOW    GOLDS3I 'S DAUGHTER.              5O9
of dollars on the altar of the ' orphlings ;' Sam  more, and Jan is
still bleeding, and he sticks right close up to the'window and de+
clares he enjoys it. You ought to have one, at least ; I must go
and, see about it. I shouldn't wonder if you was sent out to man-
age the Patagonian branch of the Gonecusset Scythe Works."
"I think I did get a letter; what did I-oh, here it is," pro-
ducing it in a very crumpled condition from his pocket.  Smooth-&amp;
ing it out, his eyes fell upon the address, and a great change
passed over his face ; he crushed it in his hand, and strode away
abruptly.  In the tenantless end of the hall, away from     the.
crowd, he paused beneath a lamp and tore it open. It ran thus:
MY FIRST AND ONLY -LOVE :,
Oh, why did you come again in my way ? I was tranquil and con-
tented, and learning to forget. I shall not get a divorce ; you are mad to
propose it to m. No, Otho, I shall go on till my heart breaks; I think it
will not be long  I am glad you are to leave me, but I pray that I may see
you once more before I die, When iny weary life is done,.and I am going to
my rest, I hope it will not be wicked for you to hold me in your arms then ;
don't let any other face come between; let me die looking in your eyes,
holding your hand. Now go ! this is my farewell, I shall not see you in
the morning ; I could not, with prying eyes upon us. Leave me with my
noble husband, who is so kind and good. Poor fellow ! he deserves better.
If only I had never seen you, darling, I might have loved him, but I cannot
wish that; I Will try to be loyal to him. Dear, dearest Otho, tempt me no
no more; the bitterness of death is past. Farewell.
George drew his band across his eyes twice or thrice, to clear
them from the gathering mists, then he looked once more at the
address, "Mr. George Blair," in tiny characters, and he read} the
letter through again. It was Ruth's writing, dLear, fine, sharp,
every letter perfect ; he knew it well, and had kissed the pretty'
characters a thousand times ; and now he seemed- to see as in a
vision, the flitting shadows of an October afternoon, and to hear
the tinkling water dropping, dropping, at Petrifying Springs and
to be sitting on the moss, planning and shaping his model; Ruth's
open letter before him:
"My Darling,-Only three days more and I shall be yours;


$1Q        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.'      511

when. this tardy sun goes down Ishallsee you. Oh! what have
I done that I should be so happy"
His eyes fell upon the letter in his hand: "Dear Otho, let me
die in your arms."  The, sweet vision melted; his model was
completed, and had passed out, of his; hands ; his happiness was
finished, and had vanishedFfrom his heart. The giant staggered
and reeled, and clutched at they pine branches for support; they
yielded to his touch, and dropped away from him. The voices
smote upon his' shattered sense like the mad t noise of Roaring-
River. A clear tone melted into his ear:
You are deeply meditating, Mr. Blair; you look as wrapt as
Ezekiel on the hillttop."
George stooped slowly and picked up the letter which had flut-
tered to his feet. He smiled ; it would have made you chilly to
see such a smile-so cold, so wintry. " The bitterness of death
is passed," said he. Without once looking at his questioner, he
walked ;slowly away. " The bitterness of death is passed, but
that cannot well be, since life remains, which is all bitterness.
Poor Ruthie, poor child; I have foreseen how it must end ; -she
is but a tender flower. I have all the strength, I must battle with
life, not she."
Belle Brandon watched him disappear. " What would I give
for such a man's love. Yielding to such a master, I might make
an average domestic machine. Poh ! what a fool I am ! what is
love to me?  Better Jan Vedder, Cymbalius Adolphus, yes, or
old Soapfut, rich, than that demi-god, poor. But .how wretched
and broken he looked ! I wonder if I don't pity* him?  I hear
people talk about pity, but I am not sure I ever felt the emotion."
Ruth Blair had - been "standing round doin'.nothin'," as Mrs.
Williams indignantly observed,, all the evening, taking no part
in the labor, or interesting the sales; she was listless and ab-
sent, or if observed, she would immediately be so gay and viva-
cious as to excite the wonder of herfriends. .,Sonsie watched her
leaning upon Otho's arm, talking with hito at the, cream-table,
and again in the recess which was set off as the "fortune bower,"
where Adeliza Euphemia questioned fate for twenty-five cents a
lead.

It was not half over yet, and Ruth wag tired of it all, but she
could not go away ; her mind was in a'tumult, and she' leaned her
face against'the cool window, and looked out ito the night, shel-
tered by the young pine trees which had been impressed into the
service of the Fair, and which served to sustain the hanging lamps.
Cymbalius Adolphus called out close beside her, at the same
time hooking Sam and Peter by a button-hole apiece:
" I say fellas, I've composed a new widdle."
"You don't mean it, Cabby ! Don't you feel exhausted ?" They
tried to pull away.
" But hold on, I'm going to tell it to you.- Half the fun of
making widdles is telling them to your friends. I made it just
now," pointing over to George Blair, who was listening to Belle
Brandon, she standing close to him and looking up in his face and
I speaking eagerly. " Why is that Blair fellah not like a galley-
slave ?"
"For several reasons, I should say, Cabby ; but you will have
to, explain your point, I can't see it."
"'Why, you see he likes the Brand-on, and the galley fellahs
don't like it. Very neat, isn't it ?"
" Did you do that all yourself, Cabby, upon honor, now ?"
"Ma foi, yes;' I'm always making them, but they are not all
so good as this one. You see the Blair fellah adores the Brandon."
"I advise you not to fulminate your riddle too near the Blair
fellah's ears, because he's got a gorgeous pair of fists, hits straight
out, and. you'll find yourself sprawling. Let me go now, Cabby,
'I'm in a hurry."
Ruth's cheeks tingled, and she dropped her head lower, and
drew her breath with a sob. It had come to this, then ; even
this brainless fool had seen her shame, and made it the theme -of
a witless jest. But she had not heard all yet; there was more
in store for her.
'-I should say that girl was pretty' peculiar," squeaked old Miss
Pettengill. "Flow she does go oi with that George Blair. If
his wife had the spunk of a flea she'd butter his beans for him; I
should admire to catch my husband cutting up such shines."
r


512        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"I know it, Miss Pettengill," chimed in Mrs. Hitchcock ; "why
'taint a week since Adelizy Euphemy see 'em walkin' home from
the foundry as' chipper as wood-chucks, and he a carrying his hat
in his hand as if she was Victory; and I happen to know it want
no chance meetin', because my girl watched her all the way up
the glen, and seen her go into the foundry, and she stood round
and waited for him to wash his face off before he started down."
"Well, well, Miss Nitchcock, did you ever. It is a dreadful
world, and stands us in hand to have our lamp trimmed and
burning ; such temptations as we have, we don't know what we
may be left to do; men are so peculiar."
" Don't you think somebody ought to warn that Belle Brandon?
she's a pretty creatur, and so young and innocent; she and my
A.delizy is quite intimate."
" Well I must say, sister Pettibone, I'm  glad my Dulcet is
going to be married. She'll soon have a man to take care of her,
and such a nice, kind, generous creatur; I wish he was a profes-
sor. It says 'be ye not unequally yoked together,' but a pious
wife can do a great deal."
"Your Dulcet ! Law sakes ! you needn't be noways alarmed
about her; she's safe enough;" old Miss Pettengill snuffed con-
temptuously.
Poor Ruth shrank away, and crept out of the hall. As she
stood at the door she glanced back, the post-office window was
shut, and the people were beginning to go away. She looked
about :foi George, he was- nowhere to be seen. Mrs. Deacon
Williams and Mrs. John Bisbee were piling up the dishes, and-
talking at their work.
"What's- she gone home for ?"
"She said her head ached."
" Don't believe a word on't; she shirks the trouble, and gets off'
a walking with that fool that ought to know better."
Ruth fitted this conversation on to her thoughts. Itwas Belle
who had gone; and with George ; another walk; she would follow
and upbraid them-,-no, she would not speak a word to either, but
she would take her child and go away and live alone, far from

=WIDOW  GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.             513
the pity o, people, and their ridicule. But she would e for
herself, and they should know that she had seen, and understood.
She hastened aloig into the night with hurrying feet, and
pressed her hands to her throbbing temples; away before, her she
discerned the faint outline of two figures, and thought she saw
the flutter of a white robe ; she. quickened her stumbling foot-
steps, ran wildly after themn,with her strained eyes fixed in eager
watch. A blast of the cool night wind swept.off her round hat,
and her loosened hair fell about her face. She parted it eagerly,
and ran on without stopping ; her feet tripped over something
lying across the walk, and she fell. It was .a man, probably.
drunk; she did not.stop to ascertain, did not give him a thought,
but rose quickly, still peering into the darkness; the figures had
disappeared.
She was near the Horse Shoe now, and as she turned the cor-
ner a bright light streamed out at her from the window. She smiled
bitterly as she thought of the two who were within, and wondered
how they would look when she confronted them; jealous people
make no account of; probabilities, and with her hand upon the
lock she drew in her breath. She burst open the door and dashed
in. George was there alone, kneeling" by .Pigeon's crib, with _a
picture in his hand,-which he put away in his ,pocket, and he-rais-
ed his face, wet with tears, which he made no effort to conceal.
"Come here, Ruthie," said he, rising to his feet.' His voice
was calm and quiet, but-oh how sad. He held out his hand to
her.
"Look how sweetly the boy is sleeping ; after a whine he will
toss whole hours on his restless bed, and long and pray for rest,
for forgetfulness, but it won't come. I've got to speak, Ruthie;
the time for silence has passed ; I have been trying' to find out
how, here by his crib. We must look each other resolutely in
the face, and hear and speak the truth. Do not tremble, poor
girl, you need: not fear me.; I am no stern judge."
She stood still, her lips curling, her panting breath coming in
sobs:from her heaving chest; but she never turned an eyelash
toward him.


514        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

",Will you not come, my Ruth, and let me take your hand ?"
She laughed scornfully, and flashed a blazing look at him-
"You my judge! and with that picture in your hand, which ,you
dared to put to your lips! You have just hidden it out of sight.
Don't act astonishment; don't add a lie to the rest of it. I saw
you with my eyes."
"The picture, Ruth ; do you taunt me with that ? must you
not only deny me the love which is dearer than my life, but do
you also grudge me a glance at the smiling eyes, the precious lips
which have spoken such dear words as will take all my life to
foiget.
Stop, George! Don't go any farther in that ; I'm trying hard
not to despise you. I wonder you can look at me, and you speak
of being.a judge to me! and you ask me to come and touch your
hand; you think a few pretty speeches,  erhas' a confess
prp    cneson or
two, will set all right. No, I will not come near you."
"Are you mad, Ruth ?" said George, straightening himself, the
lnes in his face hardening. " Do you despise. my forbearance?
But I will not be angry with you, poor child; you have been
greatly tried, you have suffered ; you do not know how wildly you
talk, or what you are doing."
"Oh yes I do; I know quite well. I am turning my back on
a man who has ruined my life, made me a by-word and 'a laugh-
ing-stock! so that I hate myself and him."
She Wvalked to the crib, and taking her boy in her arms, she
passed swiftly into her bed-room.
"Do not try to stop or follow me," (he had not moved,'but
stood sorrowfully regarding her, his arms crossed.) "If you have
not lost all respect for yourself and for me, leave me alone, go
away as far as you can."
She shut the door, and put her hand 'upon the key, but quickly
removed it, and laid her baby down in his accustomed place, with
her usual soft touch and quiet exactness, though 'twas a wonder
where tenderness could hide under such a scornful face. The
little fellow half opened his eyes, and threw up his arms, smiled,
and murmured "Precious Papa," hard words for her just now,

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.             515
when all her soul was alive with turbulent, jealous anger. She
threw herself down, and buried her face in the pillow. Poor
Cymbalius' vapid laugh still rung. in her ears, and the cackling
pity from the women still stung her.
In the dead hush which followed, she heard, George open his
desk, draw up a chair, and knew that he sat down, and through the
thin partition the noise of the scratching pen came distinctly to
her ear.
"Odious, selfish man!" she thought. " He can settle himself
quietly to his calculations, while.my heart is breaking."
An hour passed away, then she heard him get up, push back
his chair ; then he walked quickly up and down, with heavy, un-
certain steps; he stopped by her door, put his hand on the knob;
she thought he was going to enter, and she- gathered up her anger
to defy him, taunt him with her sufferings up at the hall; to let
him know how fools and old women were mouthing his name.-
le murmured a few words, and she heard him say Rutliie, she'
thought it was dear Ruthie, and she caught the sound of a sob;
but it did not soften her heart. The front door opened and shut,
and all was still.
The heavy night wore on ; the old clock told off the minutes,
and every stroke fell a leaden blow upon her brain. She ceased
to remember where George had gone, and why ; she could not
think, the room became a whirling agony, in which she was spin-
ning round and round, never to know rest and shelter more.
When the sun arose, and the day grew broad, Pigeon awoke,
and called "Papa," and screamed; she heard his voice, but as
nothing concerning her, and he ,climbed around and laid his hands
upon her, and tried to turn her face toward him. The touch of
the soft baby arms aroused her, and she arose and tried.to unravel
her perplexed thoughts, and pushed off the hair from her face,
and sat up and looked about her. She was alone with her child,
and she remembered why, and that she must be always alone,
even with her husband by her side;. she who had used to have
fond words and tender caresses for her daily food.


516           WIDOW    GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
Pigeon pointed to the door, and begged to go out ; she hesita-
ted, forGeorge was there, and she did not know how she could
ever speak to him  again ; but the child was so clamorous she
forced herself to rise, and pulled the door slowly open, and looked
fearfully out into the room where she had spoken such hard words
only a few hours before.: The place was desolate ; the sunshine
poured in upon the darkened ashes; ~ the fire had gone out on
the hearth. She glanced angrily, resentfullyi at the open desk,
and scattered papers, so unlike her husband's methodical nicety.
" He was in such haste to go," she thought; " to go where ? why
to his work, of course. I must have slept, and poor fellow, he
had no breakfast !"
This:natural, wifely thought only came like a flash, and van-
ished. ' It was indeed real, then; they were sundered-he had
left her without a word.. She steadied herself by the desk, and
tried to think. how it would end.  Her eyes fell upon the ashes,
and in the midst of her tumult she found time to be angry that
he was so careless as to go to work without kindling a fire for her,
and bringing fresh water, as he often did with a loving desire to
lighten her labors...
A. couple of letters were lying on the velvet, close to some tiny
wheels and cogs. The firm   characters arrested her wandering
gaze; they were her husband's, and she spoke aloud her own
name, reading it there.  She put ler child quickly away from
her, and tore open the envelope, her blood boiling with fear, pride
and anger..,
"MYR DEAREST RUTHIE :                                '
1Vy Darling Wife'--This is the last time I shall' ever call you-so, and you
must bear with me, because'I am going out of your way, and shall trouble
youno more. I have been slow to learn my lesson, a weary time ;. I can
scarcely take it in now, but your letter has finished it. I did not know it
was for that person till I had read it half through, and then I thought it
right, to go on. I do not. wonder ' that you wrote the wrongname
"pon i, foi- your little heart must have been tortured while, you penned it,
and you could not keep me from your thoughts. It would be cowardly iii
me to try any more. When I heard your talk up at Craigenfells; thait even-
ing which seems so long ago, I twisted it out of my mind; I hated to know

WIDOW    GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.                   517
that my Ruthie had ever loved another man, and told him so ; she who was
so my very own that I though I knew every crook and turn in her character,
that she had kept hidden no secrets. - 'Twas bitter, but still not a crime-.
only hard lines for me. Such things are happening every day-the husband
comes in second best where he had thought to be first and all.
I know, Ruthie, that I.am a great lumbering, clumsy fellow, and you are
fine, and pretty, and graceful; and I am glad.that I was so wise to love you,
after all, and I shall go on loving you till I die. Perhaps you will not care
to have me tell you this, but it is so; you have a right to a better life than I,
a poor blacksmith, can give you; you ought to have carriages, and horses,
and servants, and if I had' not found out :that you did not love me, -but had,
all the while you were lying in my bosom; been loving and regreting that
person, (I cannot bring myself to name him,) I think 1 could have conquered
fate, and forced her to yield me of her best ; I even pleased myself with 'the
dream to see you mistress of a fine mansion, and all I found you so ardently
and secretly desired.
You have spoken in the letter about a divorce; I know you gre good and
pure, and will do nothing wrong, and I am going away so that you can get
one. I am going to desert you, so that you will have no difficulty-the fact
will be patent to all. You will have to bear patiently my name a little
while, and then you will be free. I know that I can trust it to you, and that
you can give it back to me unspotted.
You spoke some hard words about your picture, but I cannot give it up.
I think I have a right to keep it ; right or .wrong, I shall. I do not blame
you very much; I have seen you trying to fight your heart; it is hard work,
isn't it, Ruth'? I have watched the struggle, and I understood-your sad faoe,
and the tears you tried so often to hide. I cannot bear to see you fade away
before my eyes, when an act of 'mine can give you love and life. My God !
that I should have to say so to my wife ! - I can hold ,you despite the world ;
I can force yon to live by my side; but what is it worth if I have no place
in your sweet heart. Shall I be selfish'? Rest, poor child, suffer no more ;
but oh, Ruth ! if you had only confided in me, how much better it would
have been. I could have borne life better never to have had you, than now,
when the richness and flavor is all gone.
Poor Pigeon ! I hear his voice ; he calls me 'precious papa.' Pretty dar-
ling, teach him to love me and remember me;. but no, you cannot do that,
for you yourself will forget me. . When you are no longer my wife, when hu-
man law has set you free, I shall claim my boy ; you can give him up then.
But RIthie, do not'be frightened, I shall not come near you. I will send
careful hands to fetch him.
I must speak to you about money. You need feel no care. I have sold
my rotary ; the price is invested for you. The house is yours, and enough
in the savings to keep you from want. I shall not ask leave to love you,


51$-       WIDOW GOLDSx1TH's "DAUGHTER.

because Icannot take back what I gave, and the love for you is part of my
being-it will never die.
I shall do as you bade me; I am going as far away from you as I can, and-
after whatis passed I don't think I wish ever to look in your face again.
For the last time, my precious darling, my dear, dear wife, farewell. May
God forever bless you."
The first emotion which possessed Ruth's soul upon the com-
pletion of the letter, was exulting joy. George was her George,
after all I faithful and true. "Noble fellow!" she exclaimed, hot
tears raining from her eyes; but before long astonishment came
to the surface. Otho's name connected with hers ! she had never
seen the faintest glimmer ofsuch a possibility.  She tried to go
back to the Craigenfells evening in her memory, and she re-
- called, with some effort, a conversation in which Otho had' wished
that Chris should be permitted to drive- home with him in the
curricle, and she had' interposed propriety scruples, and Mrs.
Goldsmith's anger, but had finally yielded to his masterful deter-
inination. Almost from  the arrival of Otho in Roaring River,
her relations with her husband had been disturbed, and on a false
footing. But Belle Brandon, not Otho, had been her stumbling-
block.  She had gradually withdrawn from    his confidence, full
of jealousy and unrest.
She turned once moreto the sheet in her hand, and read slowly
and'carefully.' "Your letter has finished it."  "What, letter ?"
saidishe, aloud. "I have written nothing to him, .though I have
often commenced, and could not bring myself to say my thoughts."
Her eyes fell upon the other missive on the desk, and she took it
into her bands, and tried to comprehend; her writing, and ad-
dressed to her husband. She opened and commenced to read;
till now she had been standing by the desk, but her limbs refused-
longer to support her, and she sat down and 'tried to steady her
thoughts, and force her trembling hands to hold firmly the per-
fumed paper which fluttered in her grasp... She turned sick and
faint, and glanced uneasily around her ; something reminded her
of Belle Brandon; she was not sufficiently alive to her own sen-,
sations to know that it was the faint odor of heliotrope which the

blonde was so fond of using, wafted up- to her from the letter in
her fingers, and she soon lost the unpleasant feeling that she had
observed, in the concentration of her powers upon the strange
epistle she was-reading. "I shall not get a divorce, you are mad
to propose it."  She arose and staggered up and down the room
to make sure she was awake, and 'then returned to the letter as
if fascinated. She read it all through, and tossed it aside in dis-
gust.
"And George Blair, who has been my husband for two years,
could believe me capable of that wretched stuff! nonsense! .he
did not believe, it. It's a ruse, a mean ruse -to get rid of me.
Let him go, I shall not condescend to implore him to stay, no.
I'll break my heart first ! I'll go, he shall not find me here in
his house 'when he returns to it."  Even through the surge of
bitter thoughts, came a wave of memory ; through all her mad
jealousy, her paraded coldness, her silence and 'sadness, her pet-
ulance and scornful looks, she could recall nothing but gentlest
kindness and great-hearted forbearance from her noble husband.
Even while he was suffering under a belief of her treachery to
him, for it was treachery, -,she could give it no better name;- and
he had; her own writing a witness against her. That Belle Bran-
don. had done her best to fascinate him she knew well, but had
she succeeded ?  She was forced to own that she had no evidence
in word. or action. All looked so differently, seen through this
new 'medium. She ran to the door and threw it open. "Oh
George, dearest George, come back to me, give me time to make
it right i" She called twice, thrice, the lonely echo threw back
her despairing voice. Baxter Williams was passing, with his wide-
.mouthed dog at his heels, and he stopped and leaned over the
gate, and listened, grinning at her.
"Why don't you speak up,' Miss Blair, rather deaf ain't he ?"
She shut the door hastily. "Of course he will not leave me.
Why the sun shines, and the flowers bloom, the world looks just
as usual, it cannot be that such a'horrible thing can happen to me.
He is jealous, poor fellow. I know how that hurts. She smiled

.  _  z
WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       519


520       WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLpSMITH'S DAUGHTER. 5' 21

a pitiful smile. He must see as soon as he takes time to think'
how impossible and absurd the whole thing is. Even if L could
write it, I would' not serve myself of such a*paltry means of
getting it to reach him. Why-! Iam his wife."
She thought she would go up to the foundry (of course he must
be there, he is such asteady, straightforward fellow,) and put
her arms arounds his neck, and tell him  all about ,it, how very
wickedly she had deceived herself, and beg him to believe her
true and loving to him alone. Why the instant he looks at me
lie will know.. Oh I wish. he would come," and she smiled at
the face he would pull on when she should open his blind eyes to
the real object of Otho's love, and she pursed up her lips to his
favorite whistle. She ran up stairs to fetch her bonnet, and
stopped at sight of her haggard face in the mirror. It would not do
to disgrace him and drag their private troubles before all those
rough men. No, she would wait at home, in her place, for his
coming, and make him a nice breakfast ; he went out so early, he
would be sure 'to return soon.. Batter cakes! No, waffles, George
loved waffles, and though she had taken all care to give him what
he liked, she thought with sinking heart, how few sweet words she
had bestowed with the delicacies. The tempting meal' was all
ready, still she was alone. Pigeon cried and tried =to pull her
from the window. She took him up and gave him his breakfast,
and sat do n again at her post. The morning-dragged away, it
was high noon. She never ceased her watch, except to attend to
her child, who, as the slow hours crept by, grew fretful,arid peev-
ish, and when darkness closed around her, she remembered that
she had given him no supper, and she sat down mechanically to
make'him ready for his sleep.  Sing, mama, sing,"'said Pigeon,
and he persisted with the peculiar tyranny of childhood, which
ignores all feeling, 'tilishe commenced the lullaby, and she sang it
all through, again' and 'again,iill' the weary little head drooped,
and the long lashes'veiled the eyes, and she rose up to lay him in
his'crib. As she did so, a noise on the piazza caught her ear.
She dropped him hastily and flew to the door.. A great shaggy
shepherds' dog rose friom the mat, shook himself, and walked in

and came up and licked her hand. She had a massive'collar on
her neck, bearing her name, "Flirt," and a card attached to it.
"She is faithful and honest, as well as powerful, and will prove a sure pro-
tecter to Ruth Blair, in spite of her name, as long as she needs her."


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      523

CHAPTER THIRTY-FOURTH.
DEBORAH' S BASKET.
They were to start at ten o'clock, and it was half past nine
already. The trunks were all packed, and standing on the walk,
and Chris was leaning against the window, looking her farewell
to all the familiar objects which had been silent witnesses of her
trials, her-joys and sorrows, and straining her gaze down the grass
bordered road, hoping to catch sight of a dear familiar little fig-
ure : and her eyes filled with tears. " Maybe she will be at the
cars," she thought, brightening up. " I am sure she will."
Deborah had ridden down from Craigenfells in the little market
wagon, to bid her " good bye," and take her in her old. arms with
motherly fondness.
"My child, my child," said she, " ten years to-day, I laid my
little Bessie down beneath the daisies. I shut her blue eyes with
my own hands, her pretty eyes, that used to dance and laugh at
the sight of me. Yours area very like her's, Miss Chris, barrin
the color. It amost breaks my heart 'to see you, but I must'nt
cry, now that you're going away from us all. You'll come back a
fine young lady with lots of learning, though I think you've plenty
in your pretty head already."
Deborah blew her nose, and said again that she was'nt going to-
cry, and wiped her face on her vast handkerchief, and brightened
up and opened a basket of marvelous dark lustrous brown, and
curious weaving.-
" I've brought you a few little notions for luncheon. Thomas
was out on the hills at :sun-up this morning,' .and shot the birds,
(522)

and I cooked them nice, and I lined the basket myself and marked
the napkins."
She lifted the snowy covering, and- showed a couple of wood-
cock, bedded in a crusty loaf. (" Thomas don't care a fig about
the game laws.A He says God's birds on Craigenfells, are hizzen,")
a form of jelly clear and bright, a tiny loaf of cake, some jolly
red-checked summer Bon Cretans, half a dozen bunches of Mus-
cadines, some peaches,,which proved the use of Thomas' forcing,
besides nectarines and mesplis japonicas.
"There dear, I don't believe any of the girls can show a better
lunch than that, and you-need'nt be ashamed to open the basket
nuther. I made it after one Miss Ellinor left up at the place last
summer,.only I put satin where her's was leather, and I embroid-
ered the rings and holdfasts, all myself, and these little goblets are
fine cut and the salt-dish is solid silver; and look here, Miss Chris,
dear," 5he took a morocco case from her pocket, and caressed it in
her hard hands before she opened it. "These were her's, my Bes-
sie's, she used to eat with them. Mr. Craigenfells fetched them from
foreign parts." -It was- aknife, fork and spoon, '"With wooden han-
dles of curious carving. See, they just fit the holdfasts. I knew
what I was about, I believe, did'nt I, Miss Chris ?  I want you
to have them for her sake; and I've got some finery for you too."
She unrolled on her' hand a couple of yards of rare old English
lace, yellow with age, and of elaborate pattern. "Miss Alice gave
it to me when she was'a young lassie, and a sweet good child she
was. You must keep it, and wear it when you want. to be"fine.
It's grand enough for a countess, and you won't forget old Deb
will you? If you would write to me just once, darling. I should
like 'to have a real letter from my Pet, to keep in 'my box, and
read sometimes, of a Sunday."
" Indeed I will, dear 'Deborah, I will write to you every week,
every Sunday night, and you shall- have all the news about;the
girls, and I'll tell you what I study,' and all about the school, every
thin'. I *kiow just what'll please you, don't I."  Chris threw
her arms around the old creature's neck, whose heart was 'full of
the mother-love she so yearned for, with a hearty burst of kisses,


524

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

which made old Deb wipe her eyes, when she thought it over,
and said. to herself the loving ,speeches, as 'she jogged back to
Craigenfells.
"Take care of your precious health, pretty, don't wet your feet
and get your death a cold, because health is worth all the learn-
ing in the world. I've got some nice yarn, I'm bleaching it in
the window, I'm going to knit you some warm stockings against
winter, and I'll smuggle in some goodies for you, pickles and
cakes, when I send them. I hope they won't starve you out' up
there. They say the cooking is'nt much at these grand schools.
If they do, you tell me.  I1 put you up a box every evening, and
Thomas, he'll be glad enough tossend it. He's going to be down
at the station, and you must'nt miss- him. He'd do anything in
the world for you, that his strength or cunning could."
" Oh Deborah," said Chris,, clinging to her, "it is so good to
have you come and talk so to me, and take such interest in me, I
wish I could be Bessie to you and make you and Thomas glad,"
and then she broke downand hid her face and her sobs in the
motherly arms, opened to. receive her, and lay on the faithful
breast, where Bessie's head had been cradled, and she felt a hand
on her forehead, and heard a murmured payer, which she was-sure
must be a blessing. The sharp hard words she had got that morning
from her mother, melted out of her thoughts, and she forgot how
she had pitched the things into the trunk, grumbling at the trouble,
and jammed them down and laid a Bible on top.
"There!" she"had ejaculated, "I don't put it in because I've
any idee you will ever look into't. I know. you too well for that,
but I've done my duty by you, and wash my hands of it."
After Deb left, with many loving last looks, and gentle admo-
nitions and soft mention of the dearChrist, who had carried our
sorrows, -His love and pity, and sweetness in the touching utter-
ance her often communion with Him gave her; and the grand
beauty of His own. tender words to His disciples---Chris had a good
cry, and was softened in spirit. She wished that she was good,
and resolved to lead a true life, and felt glad that she had a chris-

WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTEl.           525l
tian to pray for her; and while she was thinking, Sonsie came to
bid her adieu.
"Miss Chris, could'nt you find' me 'a place to work for me
board? I must be gettin the idication. Oh if I could only go
along wid you. I can't bide much longer where I'm stoppin  I
think that spalpeen of a boy'll be the death of me sooner or later,
or I of him; he's a hard little beast, and his empty head is stuffed
wid divlement entirely. I'm not going to complain and trouble
me mother, and she wid' the baby to mind,-and the children to
feed, but I must be gettin the larnin. I see the girls go by wid
their books to school, and it just breaks the heart of me."
" I thought Mrs. Williams was to send you to school, Sonsie."
"Ah ! sorra a bit of schoolin I'll ever get out of t'auld dragon
at all, at all. Indade, but she's the divil's own, Miss Chris, for
ugliness. You'd never in the world believe me, if I told you the
half of what she can do for meanness and contriariness."
" Why don't you speak to Mrs. Blair, Sonsie-?"
S" Sure I could'nt be vexing her now," said Sonsie, quickly, look-
ing'down, " I'd rather fare on as I am, than do that."
"When did you see her ?" Chris looked down the road wist-
fully as she asked the question.
/" I saw her just a minute this morning. -I came from there."
"I thought she would come to kiss me good-bye," sighed Chris.
" I could'nt get out. This is Saturday, I have not seenher since
fair night, and that was Thursday."
" She's-=-not-well," said Sonsie, hesitatingly. "I don't think
she'll come out tis morning."  Then as it seemed, to turn the
talk, she caught up Rainbow who was sitting close by the lunch
basket, smelling at it occasionally, evidently not clear in his mind
as to itscontents.
"Poor fellow," said Chris, "I wish I had some home to leave
him in, Sonsie. I hate to abandon him, with not a friend about
the place. He'll miss me, I know. I might have told Pauline
Bradshaw to coax him to stay over there, but even then I fear
Bax Williams would ferret him out, he is bent on killing him,
dear old Rainbow !"                  -


526         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
"I know a place down on the flats where they are clean out
of cats, where Bax would never think of looking for him."
" But would they receive him joyfully, and feed him well ?"
"Oh yes indeed, I'm sure of its They've a dog so fat that he
can hardly Waddle."
"That being the case, I'll consign him to your care," said Chris
laughing, and kissing her favorite, fondly. "But you must keep
an eyeon Bax, he is cunning as his father the d--eacon."
"Tm eunning- too, Miss" Chris."  Sonsie closed one eye and
fixed the other on Chris, explaining that that was the one she
was-to keep upon Bax's movements. She had wonderful p wer
over her facial muscles, and the open eye looked as clear and- dis-
cerning as when aided by its fellow, now. extinguished under its
smooth lid. " I'll be too many for the bla'gard. I'm thinkin its'
you'll be married with Mr. Otho, some day."
" Perhaps," replied Chris, blushing.
"Will you take me to live wid ye then, and let me learn ?"
"-Poor girl," said Chris, her heart full of sympathy with a de-
sire she could so-well understand. "If ever I have a home, you
shall have one too, and I will teach you all you want to know."
" And you'll not forget me, when you come into your kingdom."
Sonsie's eyes twinkled with sly brightness.
"Not if you are faithful to Rainbow ; love me, love my cat,
you kiiow."
" You shall see that we are capab-able to take our own parts,
Miss Chris; and good luck, and the top of the mornin and a
broth of a good time till ye are married wid your true love and
coom baach to fetch me away wid ye."

CHAPTER THIRTY-FIFTH.

I

OFF TO SCHOOL.

THEsE. gregarious young Roaring Riverites always got up a
party if any of them had a trip to make, so of course they were
all to accompany the scholars to their destination: Belle and
Mary Ann were the last arrivals at the station, and 'Jan Vedder
and Cabby were in their train. Poor Jan followed every motion
of Belle's with such looks of dumb devotion as a faithful dog
gives his mistress, and accepted thankfully all crumbs of kindness
she threw at him, and he shouldered Cabby out of the way, and
trod on his toessevery opportunity. They had both been drink-
ing, and Jan's face was flushed and his eyes blood-shot.
Peter was there, carrying Zoe's smart French traveling bag,
(provoking little Zoe, who played him fast and loose, and called
him "ridiculous fellow," and laughed at him.)  The precious trio,
Dick, Gracie, and Pauline, were there, of course, and the donkeys
had all they could do to signal the coming and going trains with
their long ears, and to wink ceaselessly on the bystanders. Pauline
hung about Sabrina and Chris, and her eyes were red and swollen.
She hated to part with her sister, and much more with her dear
story-teller.
Captain Slocum, who looked upon himself as one of the young
people, drove up in his phaeton, drawn by the dangerous looking
cow ponies, who tossed their restless heads and shaggy manes,sand
twisted their necks to get a view of him and Dulcet, and looked
as savage as if they had privately made up their minds to dash
them in pieces presently and have an end. The captain carried
things coolly, however, and evidently was master of the situation,
(527)


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      '529

He had-probably shown them the halter, and whispered .to then
before starting ; and he handed Dulcet gallantly out, and took
Chaid by the button for a few parting remarks.
"I've bought the Clayton mansion, Goldsmith. I'm going to
tear its insides out and fix it up smarter than a Jerusalem cricket.
Rosewood, shittim wood, fine twined linen, and ram's skins dyed
red, and badger skins."
"Why captain, I had no idea you was such a Bible scholar."
"Is that so ?. Well, I'll bet you a hat there ig'nt a man in
Roaring River, the parson included, that 'reads his Bible as much
as I do. It's a great book, a wonderful book, Chandy. You
think because I state things strong, and clinch 'em with a damn
once in' a while, that. I haven't got no religion. But Lord,
Chandy l I'd give more for one ounce of 'do as you'd be done
by,' than a- whole bushel of Deacon Williams' prayers. I did'nt
mean to make fun of the Bible, neither ; but somehow the words
kinder hung together in my mind, and- slipped out unbeknown.
Dulcet looks fine, don't she? You ought to see her go round our
new house ; spry, sir ! up stairs three steps to a time. And the
nail holes'! Juniper ! how she did fire off the big words about
'em!   I've got a house-keeper there, Chandy, that'll beat the
field. I can have folks to dinner every day in the week, and
good squarehot meals all the while. 'Did y'ever eat any of her
mince pie?"
" Splendid ! Captain, she's just the  wife for you."
"So' I think, Chandy. I'm gladder every day she brought me
up to the scratch, haw, haw! Sorry you can't stay to see us
turned off; but we'll give you a smashing house-warming when
you come home."
The depot was full of fathers and mothers, hanging about their
especial darlings with final' touches and tender partings. Mrs.
Goldsmith was not there. She had taken leave of her boy with
set lips and watery eyes, and poked a roll of bills into his hand
as a' parting gift. She had suffered Chris to kiss her cheek, and
in return for her pleading-" Good-bye, mother ; I'll try to be
better when I get home again, and see if I can't be a comfort to
you," the widow said-

" Comfort ! humph'! If you ever get so as to pick up your
duds after you it'll be more than I look forred to ;" and after a
last look into the carriage where her handsome son was smilingly
kissing his hand to her, and her beautiful daughter was weeping
silently, with covered eyes, she slammed the door, and stalked to
her room to read the Great Tribulation, and her favorite chapter
in Revelations, about death on the pale horse, and the vials of
wrath.
23

WIDOW GOLDSMITH 8 DAUGHTER.


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.     531.

CHAPTER THIRTY-SIXTH.
CHRIS ON TOMMY TIDDLER'S GROUND.
EVERYTHING Chris had on was new, and she looked neat and
pretty. Her dress of black and white shepherd's plaid, fitted to
a charm; and her little straw hat, with plaid ribbons and a clus-
ter of ripe blackberries, was very becoming. To be sure, in her
absent fit, while mourning over Ruth's non-appearance, she had
buttoned her dress awry; but Zoe flew at her the instant she saw
her, and set that right, and scolded and kissed her. She and Sa-
brina were falling into a habit of looking Chris over and touching
her up, in the matter of buttons and pins, which always made
Otho angry when he saw it, and was a theme for biting jests
from Chandy, till one day Belle joined him, and then he treated
the blonde .to a;scathing quotation from Bill Shakes, and kept
silence afterwards. Poor Chris was very thankful to the girls,
and loved them dearly. She had' pretty well made up her mind
that she did not possess the ability to put on her clothes properly,'
and she grieved spasmodically over the fact when it was thrust
upon her observation, so that she could not shirk it. As' to her
mind-rank, she had take that by acclimation. They acknowl-
edged her superiority, and rejoiced in her. They brought her
knotty questions ; and anything they wanted out of old authors,
and were too lazy to hunt or could not come at, found ready an-
swers from her ; her word was final and decisive ; nobody thought
of going back of it. Even Belle Brandon, who turned up her
waxy little nose at her rumples, said, "How nice it was to have
a person at one's elbow who had swallowed the dictionary," and
-(530)

secretly made up her mind to trot her for a pony up at Rosen-
bloom.
The train came sweeping around the curve just as Cabby was
about propounding a new "widdle," and everybody rushed madly
at the platform, as if their salvation depended upon being first in.
Chris had never been in a car in her life ; she had often stopped
to watch the approaching monster, whose snorts and doings
seemed like the awful giant in the fairy tale, who drank up -all
the rivers and swallowed the bullocks whole, and breathed forth
fire and smoke from his nostrils. When she was put safely into
her place by the window,,.at Otho's side, and, after a few premon.
itory snorts and a couple of fierce yells from their giant, he be
gan to drag them slowly forward, she held her breath with fear,
astonishment, and delight, such an odd commingling of emotions
that she, could not have told which most possessed her soul.. She
gave absorbed'attention to the: gliding pictures-the: trees, and
fields, and water brooks, which sailed past in magical progression.
N6t one of her thoughts went astray among the jokes and tricks
of the young party, in which Chandos and Belle took conspicuous
share. The absolute certainty that she was really off, on her way
to school, was hard to take into her consciousness. She had been
so sore afraid, up to the last moment,'that something might break
up her hopes. Her mother's- parting, which choked her while she
witnessed the tender leave-takings in the depot, faded out of her
thoughts, and she clasped her hands onher lap and gazed her fill;
her delight was unmixed, absolute.
As light reading on the journey,-she had provided herself with
Homer's fliad and Pollock's "Course of Time," both gilt edged
morocco bound college prizes of 'her father's. As yet 'she had
found no use for the volumes, and Otho, after looking. at them
with a quiet laugh, put them safely away in his pocket.
Just behind bertha and Chandos, who sat together, there was
a family-father, mother,, and five children, all huddled into the
two seats, (turned face to face,) and on the floor a huge dog, which
the mother covered with her skirts every time the conductor came
by, evidently supposing she was saving a fare bf her artful strat-


532:         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
egy. The oldest girl was but a little thing, and the youngest a
baby. They were coming home from the silver mines of Nevada,
which the father had been working. The inexhaustible "Silver
lode "-lured by the falsehoods and trickery of the reckless com-
pany, he had sunk in it all his savings, as well as his- time and
health. The rock did not pay for milling-no silver in it. The
company had "bubbled," and this poor fellow cast aside with the
other workers and worthless trash, and he had been weary weeks
working his way back to civilization to begin anew. The mother
looked worn out and discouraged. The ill-smelling, ill-dressed,
dirty children, were peevish, fretful, and quarrelsome. The boys
sat, down on the dog and made him howl, and pitched into each
other remorselessly, and'she made no effort to comfort them, un-
less a sharp "hold your noise !" punctuated with a ringing slap,
was comfort. The thin, weary, restless girl tossed and tumbled
about, scattering her bread in all directions, and .anointing her
neighbors with the butter. The hollow-eyed baby moaned and
twisted about in its mother's arms, in a vain endeavor to
wri gle out of its filthy woolen sacque and hood, which last would
persist in bandaging one of its eyes, while its lanky unkempt
locks effectually extinguished the other. The maternal counten-
ance was all knotted up with fretful impatience and hard cross-
ness. The father sat and slept, with his. head back in a break-
neck attitude, and his mouth wide open and defiled with tobacco
juice. When the children crowded and bumped him, he opened
his eyes and snarled and hit out at them with his fists, and then
his head went. back again and he was as fast as ever, with the
ugly pucker still contracting his unwashed, unshaven countenance.
The baby, in its :gyrations, became possessed of the knob of Chan-
dy's cane (held over his shoulder,) and commenced sucking it
with vast i-elish. Chandy glanced at it, looked unutterable dis-
gust, and twitched it away witha jerk which hurt the poor thing
and made it cry. The mother looked to see the cause of this
new trouble, and discovered Chandy wiping the desecrated knob,
and noted his wrathful aspect, and he such a' fine gentleman!
She shook the bundle of bones, and gave it a rattling slap, as the
best amends in her power, glancing at him for approval.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S.DAUGHTER.533

Bertha looked annoyed, disturbed, and venturep upon a whis-
pered expostulation with my lord.
'- Oh Chandos, how could you?  The poor dear would not have
hurt your stupid cane. It looks so sick and 'tired, and now you
have gotten-it a beating," and she fixed her reproachful eyes full
upon Chandy's face.
"I'm not going to have my cane slobbered over by that dirty-
mouthed animal. I have a habit of putting it to my own lips, oc-
casionally; I hope I shall never so far forget myself as to do-it
again. I don't see what business such cattle have in here any-
how ; they hre coming between the wind and my nobility. There's
a second-class on the train.  Such filth-paugh! they offend
every one of my senses, and would if I had five hundred, which,
thank heaven! I have not."
Bertha regarded him a moment in indignant silence ; then she
got up and went back and said:
"Let me take your baby a little while, she is -tired of the cars.
Hard for little people, isn't it ?"
The words were nothing, but she smiled into their faces, and
half the crossness and trouble melted away from the mother di-
rectly.
" She's so dirty, Miss, I hate to have the likes of you touch
her; but indeed I cannot help it. We've been five weeks coming
over the plains, and we are fit to die,.all of us."
"Come here, little one."  Bertha held out her hands, and the
dirty baby accepted, gazing all the while fearfully into the pretty
eyes which looked the invitation, and the young lady sat doivn
again by Chandy; but she turned as far away as she could from
him. Then she pulled off the extinguishing cap, and the filthy
sacque, and taking a clean handkerchief from her bag, she'bade
the boy go wet it at the water-jar. He obeyed with delighted
alacrity, and she bathed the hot face and hands, and sprinkled them
plentifully'with Jean Maria Farina, and straightened its dress, and
smoothed it out generally; and opening the lunch-basket, she"got
out an Edinburg biscuit foray it to bite; and really the little
creature looked quite human, not to say pretty.

J I


WIDOW GOIDSMITI 'S DAUGHTER.

nI guess children take to you kinder natural you are mighty
handy with them, anyways," said the, gratified mother; and seeing
show much could be effected with a little water, she changed her
opinion of=the case, which she had been in the habit of consider-
ing hopeless;, and: pounced upon the rest of the tribe, and rubbed
them down, and- shook them up, tied their shoes, buttoned their
garments; and the 'pater familias roused himself, and contempla-
ted Bertha with approbation, and taking his second on his lap, he
drewout a wooden pocket comb, and put it through and through-
hisscrubby, sun-burnt crop, regardless of wry faces; and having
wiped his nose in the same remorseless fashion, he considered
'him finished off, and bumped his head down against his waist-
coat, and the weary eyes soon closed in slumber.
Bertha's charge - reached out her claws of hands and touched
the shining cross her new ,friend wore, and her steel buttons, all
the while looking in her eyes. Seeing only smiles, she drew her
chain towards ;her, and put it to her mouth. Bertha took outthe
watch, and both little claws fastened upon it 'directly
Chandy saw all :this- out of the tail of his eye, and it did not
please him. 'He had a young manish aversion to babies, and he
disliked to see that sour, unwholesome thing in Bertha's arms, and
he could;not understand how:she could bear to touch it, so deli-
cate and lady-like as she was in all her ways.- As he could
scarcely take in the monstrous idea that anything he saw fit to'do
should be disagreeable to Bertha, (conceited young jackanapes!
-but what wonder, so flattered and made of, as he was,) he tried
tid call her attention'to. the swiftly-moving panorama speeding:past
them; bit she answered coldly, and cor centrated her energies
upon the bag of bones, and 'astonished the .young gentleman by
humming little ,crodning song in its ears, which soon set it off
to sleep, and she -had the satisfaction of handing it back to its
mother, fast and happy.
" Two out of five disposed of; there's three more, Bertha,"
said Chandy,"and:the dog has his nose pointed at you; better
go throughthe whole ,lot ; pity to pause in the middle of a good
work."

WIDOW GOLDSMITh'S .DAUGHTER.      -      35
But she pretended not to hear, and pulled down her veil, and
leaned her head in her hand, and thought-
" Can it be? Chandy unkind and hard of heart ! not perfect,
after all."
He had pulled his cap over his eyes, after his last essay, and
appeared to sleep, and his fine-featured face looked remarkably
handsome, and Bertha thought-
"I had no idea his eye-lashes were so very long, and curled,
too," as she stole a look in adjusting her veil.
He waked up all at once, and pushed back his cap to its proper
place over his brown curls, when an orange boy came past, shout-
ing his wares.
"Here, youngster," said he; leaning coolly across Bertha's lap,
'we'll invest in a few of those."
He threw a cap-full among the children behind him, who
opened their hands joyfully ; and selected a dozen or so, which
he offered, with a queer face,-to the silent young. lady.
."A sop for Cerberus,.Bertha," said.he, and laughed. He knew
well his power, and had been only biding his time. "That's a
lucky young Fejee you've been coddling; I hope she appreciates
her privileges. Those little specimens are the ones for getting
into all the good places; mighty nice thing to be a baby. Now
don't annihilate a fellow with your moral glances."
"I must say that I am disappointed, Chandos; I thought you
were always kind and good.".
"Disappointed in me ! pelle Brandon says I am her ideal.; she
assured me that I am often before her when she is perusing some
of her favorite volumes; I remind her of Charles Torp, Mr. Lin-
den, and Corneille DeWitt: There's variety for you."
"Yes, I heard her tell, you so, and I saw her face, also."
"So did I, Miss Bertha, and I owe her one; let her drop. Do
you think now, that I am not good'?"
"IT am afraid you are hiard-hearted, Chandos."
"Nonsense, Bertha! I'm good enough, but it don't follow that
I must get up a fuss over every dirty baby I see. I like )abies

r


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

on a general estimate, a- good ways off, especially bad-smelling
ones. You see they are not in my line."
" I think kindness and sympathy should to be in everybody's
line; and you said it ought to have its neck wrung," replied Ber-
tha, very gravely..
"Are you not making an unnecessary coil about a very infini-
tesinal peccadillo ?" said Chandy, rather enjoying the lecture he
was getting, as one enjoys a new piquant sauce with a favorite
dish.
"I don't know how-you can-say so; I think it -is no triflle to
give needless pain, and I pity little children more than any other
young ,animals; poor, helpless wretches ! subject to the caprices
and humor of the old, strong ones-no redress, no appeal. It is
the saddest sight I know to see a poor baby's lip curl in piteous
grief, and to get it a blow! dreadful! I couldn't forgive my-
self."
" Don't say any more; I feel sufficiently quenched. The next
baby I see I'll fly and present my cane at once, and I'll make a
present of the thing afterwards to the nearest male relative pres-
ent."
The cars stopped at " Moose-Missie" station, and the mining
party bundled out, and Bertha blushed very much, and Chandy
laughed more, when the pater familias said:
"You're a nice good. little girl; I thank you for your kindness
to my young ones; you deserve to have a fine baby of your own,
one of these days, and I should like to be there to see the chris-
tening"'
"A Daniel come to judgment!" said- Chandy, ,clapping his
hands; and he got up and made-a great show of helping the chil-
dren off, touching them, however, rather gingerly, and kicking
the dog softly, who acknowledged the attention with a decided
growl.,
The girls had sections of the sleeping-car to themselves, but so
new and, strange was the whole to Chris, that she scarcely shut
her eyes, but lay within the closed curtains, dreaming all sorts of,
odd dreams, and setting the continuous "rac-a-tac " of the wheels

to music, which went on repeating itself over and over again.
She was up first in the dusky morning, poking here and flhere, in
search of her belongings, and counting over the articles she had
in charge.
".My bag, one ; lunch-basket, two ; veil, three; parasol, fotir ;
Pollock and Homer, five ;" but Pollock and .Homer refused to
come to time, being safely hidden away in Otho's pocket ; and
Chris got down on the floor in the dim lamp-light, whigh'was
sleepily fighting with the day-dawn, to hunt for her venerable
friends. She espied something shining, and reached out towards
it.
" Oh, girls ! I'm on Tommy Tiddler's ground ! ' I've found !
-oh good gracious! 'tis a set of teeth !" and she dropped them
from her fingers in a hurry.
"They belong to that old woman in the next section," whis-
pered Zoe ; "she was prancing up and down the passage all
night, in a calico wrapper; I saw it whisk by ever so many times
-Turkey red. There's a bit of it sticking out now."
~ Chris peered cautiously up ; "I wonder if I had better poke
them under her curtain, or waken her and give them into her
hand."
" Wake her up, of course, I want to hear what she will say."
In accordance with this advice, Chris took the teeth gingerly
between her thumb and finger, and twitched the curtains gently.
"Madam! madam! Please wake up; I think I have found
something of yours ; I am afraid they will get lost."
A burly, grey head elevated itself; a large hand plucked at the
curtain, and deep, bewildered eyes stared down at her.
" Oh horrors ! it's a man !" shrieked Zoe, who was watching
proceedings ; and she and Chris retired hastily, and closed their
curtains.
" Eh ! what is it ?" inquired a deep voice ; a sound of smack-
ing lips followed. " What's gone with my grinders ? charitable
grinders, ha! ha!" sA general stirring up of pillows and bedding
followed.

536

WIDOWI GOLD S3IITH'S DAUGHTE.1t'

1537


WIDOW -GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"J-Iere tley are, sir," said Chris, coming out from her retreat;
"I found them on the floor."
" Bless me, what an escape! a mercy there werenone of those
feet abroad which must step somewhere. Hand them up, young
friend, excellent, sweet.voiced friend;, and if you should happen
to be in want of a grandfather, you may 'command my services
in that capacity to an unlimited extent; to say. that I am grateful
faintly expresses my feelings."-
".Why, Uncle Alec,! where did you come from ?" ,exclaimed
Chris,,in a glad flutter; and without stopping to think, she seized
the white hand extended to her, and kissed it, and then dived
shame-faced under her curtain.
"What the devil!" said the voice. "Those might be Zitella's
lips, but she calls me Senor Alika; this child said Uncle Alec."
The hand parted the- curtains again, and the barrly head ap-
peared.
" Who calls so loud ?"
"Uncle Alec," questioned Sabrina.
" Uncle Alec," repeated Zoe.
" Uncle Alec," chorused Chandy and Otho, from the next see-
tion.
"It appears that I am in the midst of .many nephews and neices.
Givene time to appear in proprie habilantis, and I will come
forth and review my family."--
When the berths were put up,.and order restored, Uncle, Alec
put.on his double" eye-glass, and looked out for his kindred. . He
was a stout, broad-shouldered old fellow, with grizzled, sandy
hair, and, long, flowing silky beard, and a. famous corporation,
which suggested no end of good dinners. His bright eyes shone
through his glasses with penetrative, sharp intelligence, and his
fresh, perfectly unwrinkled face was ruddy and pleasant.
Hie expressed, great pleasure at' this unexpected meeting, and
kissed all.the girls, Belle Brandon included, who gave herself up
to the pastime with joyous abandon ; and she 'maneuvered suc-
cessfully for a good place in the circle which closed around him,
where his eyes could not help 'resting upon her, and observing

WIDOW GOLDS3XITII'S DAUGHTER.            539
how very appreciatingly she listened to his tropical tales and de-
scriptions; and Chris got treated to a Geraldine glance when
Uncle Alec drew her forward and held her hand, and squeezed
her close up to him, while he talked in a.deep, resounding voice
above all the ",rao-a-tac " of ,car-wheels, and snorting of the en-
gine.
These young folks all adored Uncle Alec; he was almost a
Providence .to them. Such parties and balls as he gave, when he
was at home ! Craigenfells was open at all times, and Thomas
instructed to provide unlimited entertainment when they choseto
go there. Nobody wasafraid .of him, not even Chris,,who had
not been permitted to keep. iup her intimacy with him since her
papa's'death, and she, could scarcely force back her tears while
she looked and listened. But by one of those queer revulsions
of feeling. which we all experience, she burst out in uncontrolable
laughter.when Mary Ann Williams held up her hands and ex-
claimed:
" Only think, girls! the woods all full of peacocks, and parrots,
and monkeys, all hanging about on the, trees and things by their
reprehensible tails!"
"A famous place for Robinson Cruso-ing, Mary Ann, is it not ?"
said Bertha, whose kind heart ached, for the poor girl, who though
so inoffensive, was continually contriving; to be ridiculous. "Defos.
would be quite in raptures there."
" It is quite doubtful ;whether, Defoe ever put pen to that Par-
adise of our childhood, Bertha," said Chris, plunging into the
.topic to cover, her offensive mirth, which she was heartily sorry
for. "Lord Byron more than hints that the first volume at any-
rate, was written by the first Lord Oxford, when in the Tower,
and given by him to Defoe,"
"Oh quit that, Chris," exclaimed Chandos, twisting himself
impatiently about. Don't.unsettle things , which are nicely dis-
posed of. I hate that sort of thing. Bishop Colenso has been
at .it, trying to number the Israelites, account for the miracles, and
unfasten all the old landmarks. I think it is very unpleasant


540       'WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITh'S DAUG1lTEl.       541

"So do I, Chandos. 1 believe the Bible just' as it is, every
quaint line in it, every bit of obselete old English suits me."
" Quite right, Pet. Orthodox little Pet, (another small squeeze.)
Stick to the faith of your fathers. It is of little consequence to
-    us whether there were forty thousand Isrealites, or only forty,
coming out of Egypt. They got out and possessed the promised
land, that's the nub of the story. Job may-have been a .man or
an allegory, the-book is poetry and wisdom from the first word
to the last."
There's another learned dunce trying to make out that Bill
Shakes was no great'shakes after all, but written by about a dozen.
As if anybody but Billy, the Stroller, could have done it ! It
makes me sick."
Uncle Alec left the discussion and bent over Chris. " It was
you Pet. This was the way you did it." ,(He kissed her hand.)
"I was in a muddle for a minute. You see there is but one
female who makes a regular business of kissing my hand. She
is a poor little Mexican, a tawny Lepero, and my first thought
was of her, but I know it was you," he rapped his teeth with his
long finger-nail.
" Yes sir," said she merrily. "I was the early bird."
" I've got something for you. I brought it on purpose for the
first pretty girl who did a thing to please me, and I am glad it
was my dear Pet: though you've been so shy of me since you've
left off short frocks; I hav'nt forgot the old times. Come back
to my seat, and let me open my bag."
She went with him to the next car, and watched him curiously
while be got out a little box, and displayed a golden comb with
narrow braided top and rich filagree tassels at.its corners. "Mex-
ican gold, Pet, pretty toy' is'nt it ? Tou must wear it once in a
while when you want to think, about Uncle Alec. I'll always
come when you put it on."
" Thank you, dear Uncle, I shall wear it often if you will prom-
ise' me that; though finery is'nt much in my line, I shall like this
very much."
"What have you got there," questioned Belle, when Chris

came back with the box in her hand'; of course you will give four
friends the benefit of a peep."
"'The fardel there ! what's i' the fardel ? wherefore that box ?'
Miss 'Mopsa Pandora would know," said Chandy.
Chris surrendered it rather unwillingly. She hated to have
Belle touch anything she liked.
"Oh what a beauty," exclaimed Belle, making a face at Chan-
dos. " You must let me arrange for you a Sappho knot, the first
school party : this would be a lovely finish, would it not .Mr.
Groenveldt ?  Pray, may I inquire how you have earned it, or
was it pure benevolence."
"1She earned it by being the early bird," said Uncle Alec.
"Girls, don't let us give sleep to our eyes, nor slumber to our
eyelids hereafter." Uncle Alec laughed, and studied the beauti-
ful dimples offered to his gaze with benevolent pleasures.
"And so you are all going to school ?" He included the whole
party in his friendly glance.
""Oh no sir ! Those young gentlemen are not scholars. Mr.
Bradshaw, Mr. Brown, Mr. Vedder. I don't believe you' have
been presented."
"1Mr. Brown, happy to:meet you sir, in such good company.
If you want a young fellow to teach you farming, here's my
nephew Peter can take you through. This Jan is an old friend
of mine ; he used to help me snare woodchucks when he was'nt
knee high, but I expect you could teach them all something worth
learning, my dear, even if they are not regular pupils."
Uncle Alec took her rosy soft chin in his hand, and made funny
round eyes at her. It was curious, how all the masculines who
came near Belle wished to try their fingers on her fresh creamy
flesh, and she knew precisely what to do, and how to look in such
cases: when- to withdraw in lofty scorn, or as at present, to sub-
mit, unresistingly, and she replied with bewitching sparkle, half
veiled under tender modesty.
" I don't know, sir, as I could, I've to study very hard myself
at all events, for this is my last year in school."
Poor Peter was following Zoe's motions with troubled glances.


542        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHT$LB.,      /d3

She hard been more Than usually tantali ing and tormenting all the
journey, and had talked with SamSlaighton, and made fun with
everybody, when he wanted her all to himself,.and he felt this
especially hard as she knew that he had made sacrifice of a county
horse fair and horticultural show, to .acconp any her.
" I am learning a hard lesson, Zoe,"-whispered he, "my mis.
tress is pretty but wicked."
" Oh hush, Peter. I'm disgusted."
"Disgusted with me," said Peter,. who was just in the mood
for picking.up trifles.
" Of course I am, how can I help it. You're such a ridiculous
fellow-"
"Am I ?" Peter straightened himself and crossed his arms.
"I think I am best off in the great fields, living my farm life.
I'm not ridiculous there at all events," and he took an " Agricul-
turist" from his pocket and read.
Zoe admired him when he looked thus, and she thought, "why
don't he always speak and 'act with such manly dignity. He's
to good by half, he has no business to let me spin him around my
finger as he does," and the young gipsey set herself to undo her
work, and make him put up his book and smile on her, and before
he knew it, he was buttered all over.
" Black Crook Station !" sung out the conductor, " twenty min-
utes for refreshments." Anid Uncle Alec tucked Chris underhis
arm and marched off to the table, and while he helped her and
himself to the most tempting viands within reach, he slily watched,
the pairing off of the young people, with whimsical enjoyment.
He touched Otho's sleeve (who had followed close at his heels, and
.stood on his other side by the long counter.)
" Look," said he, "all paired off, two and two, ready to enter
the ark. All but my little Pet here ; she's got no double."
Chris threw a shy fond look at Otho, which told her story so
well that it needed no words, and Uncle Alec laughed and patted
her shoulder.
"Well done, pretty child. You've takenup with a fine, proud'
fellow for your lover. As good as gold, but you must not let him

be your tyrant; he has got an iron will of his own, under that
grave quiet. You must look out for him, or all your sweet indi-
vidualities will be merged and lost in his."
While Chris was thinking over this speech, with a face which
looked as if the merging would be difficult, Sam Slaughton claimed
her attention with a plate' of, cucumbers.
"I've found. out where your heart was,.Otho, my boy, though
you pride yourself upon command of your face, but you see old
fellows like me know things intuitively. You've . chosen a rare
pearl. I congratulate you,.I could'nt have done it bettermyself,
iore to my mind, but I almost wonder at your wisdom too, with
that brilliant sparkling at your elbow. What a lovely creature
it is ; beautiful'as a hourii, not that I suppose they are anything
remarkable. If they are all like the mortal inhabitants of the
Sultan's Harem, they are fat and stupid pieces of tame, inanity,
without ideas ; whose life is a weary burden to them. Of course
we don't need to be told that there are no such beauties as we have
at home. We bring up o    'ur young women to think and act for
themselves, consequently they. are to be trusted, and are equal to
life's tasks. Just look at this party, what absolute contrasts,, and
what ._perfect girlhood purity and strength. Why, Mahomed
would have gone frisky mad, if he had been in my place a. while
ago, and would not-have fared as well either ; our girls would'nt
abide Turkish lumpiness. Poor miserable benighted old heathen.
He should have seen American girls before he pronounced upon
beauty. Have some coffee, Pet?  Don't think I willfully turned
my back on you, but Otho here talks, so fast I can't get a word
in edgewise." -
Chris smiled, she was still thinking of the individualities. "No,
thank you, Uncle. My mother taught me to drink only water
from :the spring."
"Quite right. Pet, very wise of your mother,. and, I am glad to
see that you;don't gobble either: Why, that girl opposite (point-
ing to Mary Ann Williams) has: had baked beans, custard pie,
roast pig, seed-cakand pickles, and two cups of this horrible cof-
fee, besides the doughnuts and apples, which she has stuffed into

60


544        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

her pocket, and we haven't been in the place twenty minutes yet.
No wonder her face is sallow aid her eyes heavy. .ied Gold-
smith was-a dainty feeder. Remember your Papa, Pet?   I've
never replaced him on my list of friends. You are very like
him."
Turning away , from the emotions his talk had called up'
Uncle Alec whispered to Otho, " How did it come about ?"
"I have been spending Bertha's vacationtime as you requested
sir;settling the Library at Craigenfells."
"Ah yes, I see, and you found my little Pet reading up there,
in a silken gown.. I can fancy her bent head and clustering
curls, (she's got magnificent hair, Otho; her father was always
showing it off to me,) a dainty-little slipper, resting on the cushion,
and the neat perfect toilette which my nephew delights in, and
such a face ! By Jove, my boy, I'd have liked to be there. But
how about the old lady ?  I used to be horribly afraid of' her.
Poor Fred was a sad victim. This child has no Price about her."
Uncle Alec chuckled. "She is priceless, uponrmy word. I blun-
dered into it, Otho. I'd no intention of making a pun. I shall
have to provide for you handsomely, my boy. I suppose the Pro-'
fessor has not laid up much dross among his specimens, and I
won't wait till I shuffle off this mortal coil. I'm only forty-
five, and the Craigenfells are a long-lived race. I intend to
divide between you and Bertha, you know, but I don't imagine a
few thousands will come amiss anytime."
Proud Otho winced, he bowed, and said quickly, with some
haughtiness in his tone, " Whither are you bound, sir ? you've your
face from Craigenfells. We thought you were sunk in the mine."
"Well, so I was, child, till lately. I've come up to breath like a
porpoise. In fact I'm looking about'for Yankee miners. I think
I've secured one. I only saw him a few minutes; he's got a
family as long as John Rogers, nine small children and)one out
of breath ; he has dug up the silver lode and is poor enough for
anything. So I gave him a fifty dollar greenback to settle" his
family, and I am to take him up at Moose Missie when I go
dlQwn"

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              545
They were all out on the platform by this time,, and Sabrina
said, "Moose Missie ! Why, that's where Bertha's proteges left
us. Had they a tremendous dog in the party ?"
"Yes, a great cross fellow, that wrinkled up his .nose, and
growled at me, but let the whole posse of young ones tumble, on
him for nothing."
" That's they," said Zoe. "I must tell you about it.".
"Hold on Miss Walsingham," interrupted Chandy. "That's
my story," and he told the tale without sparing himself in the
least, withfgenerous, honest frankness, which did him credit.
" Yes, yes, Bertha, well done, good child. Your kindness must
be rewarded."  Uncle Alec dug his great white hand, on which
he wore a vast ring of pure silver out of his own mine, into his
pocket, and brought up a couple of gold eagles, which he put into
Bertha's palm, taking it in his for the purpose, and closing her
little fingers over the shining coins. "Good little heart, loves babies,
loves finery too, buy some, books, ribbons, anything."
" Oh," thought Belle, looking on, "Why can't he be my Uncle ?"
Such an available old goose as he is. How can I manage to come
in for some of those. What a casting of pearls, etc., when I am
nearly destitute."
" Uncle Alec," commenced Otho, "I am very sure that Bertha
does not wish-"
" You keep quiet Otho, my boy, don't meddle with matters too
high for you. Don't you know that it is my mission to reward
youthful piety ?"
"If that is your fashion of doing it, won't Ibe pious then,"
exclaimed Belle, tossing off her curls, and dimpling her face all
over. Uncle Alec laughed and pinched her cheek..
"You must show the first fruits before you think of the re-
ward, beauty."
"There goes a rag-muffin," exclaimed Belle, breaking away.
,"Look at his poor bare feet; his 'coat 's got a hole in it so have
his breeches.'. Give me an eagle to fit him genteelly, and send him
to SundaySchool."
- Uncle Alec pushed away her proffered hand, but he patted it

.W


546      WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER..

softly first.  "That won't do, beauty. Charity vaunteth not
itself."
"They were all on their way to the cars, and Belle cast a spite.
ful look at the unconscious Bertha. " I'll manage hipi yet," she
thought. "If I had time, I'd marry him. He'd do twice as'
good as old Soap Fut."
There was a delay in the train. The road paid handsome div.
idends,,but the company was too poor to lay a double track, and
the shabby old cars they ran were 'a disgrace to civilization.
Uncle Alec and Otho walked up and down the platform smoking.
" I want about fifty 'men, and I want a thorough practical business
nan more ; cool headed and efficient. Do you know I have thought
more than once of trying to persuade George Blair. If it were
not for' Ruth-I haven't got any wife myself," (a little shadow
crossed his-face, chased by an odd smile as he finished his sen.
tence,) " but I can feel for those who have. I wish you couple
come, Otho: but it is a wild, harem-scarem life, not fit for you,
besides I suppose you've something better. You hav'nt told me
your plans yet."
"I've something in hand this year, at all events," replied Otho,
smiling. "I'm going to teach music at Rosenbloom."
" For the Professor. Very right, very praiseworthy ; you can
scarcely help a better man. Of course he can get teachers enough,
but your German training ought to make ,an accurate musician
'of you."
"I flatter myself it has been of use; but I shall stay to please
myself, not to benefit my -father."
Uncle Alec looked ingniringly at the proud face which was all
shut in and dark. ",Otho," said he impatiently, " such pride as
yours is folly ! You think too highly of your powers ; here I've a
couple of millions, and they go on repeating themselves, and you
turn cold and haughty at the least mention of a gift from me. I
take it unkindly. You deprive me of a pleasure."
"The leopard cannot change his spots, Uncle Alec. Let's talk
of .something else."
"I'll settle a fortune on your wife. You can't hinder that, sir."

WIDOW GOLDSMITl'S DAUGITR.              547
Oth6 smiled.  "Craigenfells is looking finely," said he.--
" Thomas has done the honors grandly."
" Dear old place ; I can stop only a couple of -days there. I've
got to drum up my men and go under ground againlike .a gnome.
As Uncle.Alec sees a vision of himself upon the broad veranda
of ' San Christabel,' taking his ease in his bamboo chair, and over-
looking his hacienda away out to the distant cerros, he smiles .at
the ' Gnome.' By the time you are ready to take up
'Domestic happiness, the only bliss
Which has survived the fall,'
I'll come up for good, and I'll have little Pet to light my pipe and
work my slippers for me. How long shall it be? one year or
two?"
"Four at the least, sir. gliss Goldsmith wishes to study, and
I must. establish myself in business."
Uncle Alec made a grimace. "And you.propose to commence
Iy teaching music. 'A wilfull man maun have his way.' You
are proud of your strength, and .you abandon yourself in shear
weakness to this love-dream. You cannot tear yourself away
from little Pet. Better be careful; plenty of matches are spoiled
by the parties seeing too much of each other. It is a severe or
deal to live under the same roof."
" Love that has got to last a life-time certainly can endure a
twelve-month of companionship. I am not at all afraid. I have
made up my mind; and don't change it easily."
"Perhaps not," replied Uncle Alec .drily. "I was thinking
little Pet might'see reason to change hers."
Otho lookedsproud and astonished. Such a view of the case
had never presented itself to" his, mind, and ,he ,dismissed it in-
stantly as too .absurd for attention
" Thinks a.great deal more of himself than he does .of little
Pet," thought Uncle Alec, studying him; "-though .I don't sup,.
pose anybody would see it under his grand courtesy ; but its so.
Always was a masterful little chap, but a real true gentleman-
good blood. I think a great deal of blood. I should like to be


548          WDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

there when the old women begin to tell him their ails. I don't
believe intense sympathy for short-comings or. fancied ills are
among his virtues." He sighed as he glanced in at the car win-
dow, where Chris' pretty face appeared in wrapt vision, following
the erect young fellow's movements,--slowly pacing. While he
looked, Zoe came and took off Chris' hat and tucked up a couple
of stray curls and settled the- hair-pins, and he was struck. by the
blackness which frowned on Otho's face, who had seen it too, and
the exchange of kisses which followed. There was'nt much in
it, but somehow Uncle Alec felt uneasy. "Fred's child is a,
dreamer," he thought. " While the others are chatting and laugh-
ing, she lives away among her thoughts. Paul and I had
to look after Fred-at school. Dear old fellow ; how like she is
to him!"
Uncle Alec always walked proudly among his young people.
There was Sabrina Bradshaw, his sister's fair daughter'; and the
Goldsmiths, who might have been blood-kin to him if things
had'nt gone .criss-cross; Jan, the scapegrace, Uncle Alec loved
him, and Zoe Walsingham, she was Zipporah Clayton's daughter,
and Zipporah was Paul's sister; and Alec and Paul had been like
brothers; and he knew, though it was a secret to everyone else,
that Elinor Walsingham had remained single for Paul's sake.
He had cause to know, such cause as had sent him a wanderer up
and down the world  these many years; such cause, that though
the lady was stout and forty now, he could not touch her hand
without sending the blood bounding through his veins. .
And  the Groenveldts-there was'nt much family likeness be-
tween madame and Uncle Alec, but they were brother and sister.
Otho he knew thoroughly, but Bertha was comparatively a stran-
ger to him. He had done his best to induce his sister to send
her over to Germany when he took Otho, but she would not hear
of- it; and now he went in and sat down by her and drew her
out, and was thoroughly delighted with what he found. "And
Chandy is a handsome fellow," he chuckled, and rubbed his hands
and looked at Sabrina, serious and bright.  Though   Sam

Slaughton was sitting by her, and she was looking at him, Uncle
Alec somehow knew intuitively that she had never been in- love.
They reached Rosenbloom about sunset. The last half-dozen
miles of the journey being performed in the vast carry-all in
which Madame Groenveldt's young ladies took their airings; and
they had no' end of fun, sitting opposite each other on the long
seats, while the driver rattled breakneck down the steep hills, and
mixed them' into pie. Uncle Alec,' deaf to all entreaties, even
Belle's, who coaxed her prettiest, had turned off at Bramble
Junction, but compromised by promising to be present at the
Christmas party, and bring Miss Elinor, always providing he was
not under ground by that time.
The first view of the great house, sitting in the valley, with its
wide galleries ; its great observatory, where the Professor's tele-
scopepointed nightly toward the silent stars ; its many-windowed
extent and clustered off-shoots, green-houses, lecture-halls, bowling-
alleys, billiard-rooms, barns, and stables, was very suggestive of
good times, and as Otho and 'Bertha pointed out the various
buildings and their uses, divers were the exclamations of pleasure
they called out. Richly the' place deserved its fanciful name.
Roses were a, specialty with the dear old Professor, and he had
them all, from the choicest and rarest, to the common eglantine
of the woods; and-his perpetuals were loaded with blooms.' They
were on standards, on trellises, in"pots, in borders, all thrifty and
beautiful. When the party approached near enough to °see the
deep, still lake,lying at rest between the mountains; the tree-tops
and clouds all radiant with the mystery of the golden light,
though the sun had gone down ; the great grey rocks piled in fan-
tastic heaps like giant's playthings ; the clear water-brooks, rush-
ing and foaming down the hill-side from grassy springs away
up among the shadows, where the white owls hoot. at evening ;
the pretty basin before the windows, with its fountain and leaping
trout; the sheep and lambs galloping along the meadows; the
quiet cows biting the short grass ; and Shep, the huge wolfish-
looking dog. with' great pointed ears and yellow eyes, come tear-
ing along the road, his fox-brush of a tail waving over his striped

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.     549


556      -   WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
back, barking deep hollow barks of greeting to his friends in
harness; Chris turned to Otho with flashing eyes and laid her-
hand on his with a little caress, a thing so unusual that Otho was
quite startled.
"Do you like Rosenbloom ?" asked he, imprisoning the small
messenger which had spoken its owner's pleasure, and smiling
down upon the animated face with one of his rare grave smiles,
which lighted up his dark features like sudden sunbeams. "Do
you like it, Sappho ?"
"Oh yes, it is very lovely, and this evening is so perfect ; noth-
ing wanting in earth or sky. I am sure I shall be very happy
here."
"Enough so to staytill I am ready to take you to my home,
darling ? I should like this to be your home till you .come to
mine."
Chris turned her head away to hide the deep blush which
would come ; and in a moment they were there.
Bertha sprang out first, and was taken into her father's arms
with a fond, quaint welcome. Then she went up to her mother.
'I've brought them all in safe, mama, and in first-rate order."
She waved her arm about towards the descending party. "Seven
head of pupil! and here are Mr. Brown and Mr. Vedder, who
have helped me keep watch."
While madame was looking at Bertha, not clear as to the ab-
solute propriety of her little speech, and the merry tone in which
she gave it, Jan came up and made his bow.
" We are a couple of famous sheep-dogs, madame, safe to be
trusted among the tenderest kind of pupils."
"Ma foi, yes," echoed Cymbaliiius-Adolphus, approaching and
giving his hat a neat blow at the right juncture, just as the fel-
low comes in on the triangles in the band: "Ma foi, yes,
madame. I've made a widdle about it. Why is Chandds Gold-
smith like-"
Sauey Chandy patted him on the back. "Ah, Madame Groen-
veldt, Cabby is some on widdles.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       551

'His years are young, but:his experience old,
His head unmellowed, but his judgment ripe.'"
"fLeave my coat alone, Goldsmith; I don't like that sort of
thing, you know. It's a bore, it's a nuisance," said Cabby crossly.
"Not like Bill Shakes, Cabby?  Take care ! he is a friend  of
mine ; but just stand aside now, here comes the Silver Lake god-
dess."
Cymbalinus backed away disconsolately, with a dim idea of Bill
Shakes as a shoulder-hitter with a bull-terrier at his heels, and
stopd turning it over in his mind and glorifying himself that- he
had always kept clear of such disreputable acqiaintances.
Madame received her guests with business kindness, and sharp,
comprehensive glances, which took in their whole get p, as she
kissed the girls on both cheeks and shook hands With their es-
corts.
For the last ten minutes of th'e drive, Belle Brandon had kept
her little round high heel planted on .Chris's frock, and had leaned
her elbow on, her knee, and her head in her hand, to give it
weight and steadiness, and when Chris rose quickly to give her
hand to Otho, and sprang lightly out, her skirt gathers all gave
way. Poor blear-eyed Scratch-hard had sewed them in at three
o'clock in the morning, andin a desperate hurry, and it-was .tacky,
too, for the fabric must else have had a fearful rent. As it 'was,
the back breadths all parted. company with the body, and trailed in
dreary draggle-tail fashion, as she presented herself to Madame,
to be looked over.
" Do gather up your rags, Cinderella," said Bellee in a clear
voice; "you are the most unfortunate wretch! I wonder why
it is ifanybody comes to   grief, it is invariably Christabel
Goldsmith. How de do, Madame Groenveldt I've come to be
your little girl now ; please keep a kiss for me, (putting up her
mouth,) I love kisses; I've my lips all ready."
Jan Vedder's mouth watered, and he only wished he could be
there.


b52        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGrTER.

Madame gave the required salute, but she looked daggers and
knives at the rent garment, which Chris hastily clutched, backing
against the wall.
Belle laughed and pointed merrily at her, and Mary Ann tried
to join as if she must, but couldn't quite enjoy it. Otho brought
his eye-brows together in a black frown which covered the three,
and Belle went up and twitched his sleeve, holding her sides.
"What a guy she looks, doesn't she ?" said she.
" What's amiss with your dress, Miss Goldsmith ?" asked mad.
ame, severely; "come here, if you please."
Chris came immediately, but looked so miserable that every.
body felt sorry fob her, except the blonde beauty..
"It caught in the. carriage, I think, as I jumped out."
"Very. careless of you; always gather up your skirts before
you get out of a carriage ; such heedlessness often causes terrible
accidents. The sewing is lamentably faulty; faulty sewing is
unladylike: I recommend you tp repair the mischief before you
retire this evening. Never put off your duties; I require the
utmost exactness and neatness from my young ladies, in attire, as
well as everything else. We strive for perfection, keeping our
standard high.
Madame was all school-ma'am now-argus-eyed and armed in
proof. She had two distinct natures: a charming lady, wife, and
mother, out of harness, but when she buckled on her educational
armor she was invincible.
Otho walked away before she commenced her harangue, with
Sam and Peter, keeping his anger under, and politely showing
off the place; and Chandy went up and stood by Chris..
"My sister has not been her own dress-maker, madame," said
he, " but she is a rare needle-woman, and when she tries her skill
you'll find her skirts will bear a heavy foot better. There is'one
point in her character in which she is beyond your teaching;
when reviled she answers not again."
So saying, Chandy put Chris's unwilling hand within his arm,
and walked off.
Madame was astonished, displeased with the Goldsmiths, and a

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

trifle, just a trifle put out with herself. She scarcely knew the
secret feeling which led her to be so hard upon Chris, and
the satisfaction she took in lecturing her before Otho. She never
made apologies, that is, educationally, and she saw from the faces
around her that they considered her unjust and unreasonably hard
upon poor Chris for a mere accident, and she called after her, "rI
think gou will be more careful next time, my dear," and then 'she
rung the bell.
" Have the goodness to admonish Miss Brandon to be less cai
ful, madame," said Chandy, facing about and bowing low.
Belle laughed. "He is' so full of jokes, madame," said she,
She felt gay; she had given the two persons she disliked some.
thing unpleasant to connect in their remembrance of the first.
hour in' Rosenbloom, and put the whole party out of joint, and
her face was radiantly beautiful, despite the dust and soil of travel,
and her manner bewitchingly simple.
"Miss Filer, young ladies. Miss Filer, you will have' the
goodness to show these strangers to their rooms, and take care bf
them; and allow me, young ladies, to recommend expeditious
toilettes, as supper is waiting. Ah_! here comes Otho! Charm-
ing view, gentlemen, is it not? My son, in the north wing, if
you please; will you oblige me by seeing your friends safely p ro-
vided ? -Au revoir, gentlemen, and speedily ; your old quarters,
Otho, and Mr. Goldsniith next you."
She dismissed them'with cordial courtesy, and" tried hard to
smile away the unfavorable impression she had made, and scatter
the gathering gloom.
All went except Belle, who seated herself at the piano, after
throwing her wrappings on one of the drawing-room chairs
"I'm so fagged, I really don't feel equal to the effort of dress-
ing; I think Il stay here till the rest come down. This is the
practicing machine, I suppose, and of course an aggravating tin
pan;' Steinway! betters than Chickering, but I prefer Pleyei; h
cabiets are the sweetest toned things in the world, but nais
vraiment! this is not so bad," running' her fingers swiftly.over
the keys.
24

553,


554        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      555

"You will not be permitted to practice here, my dear," replied
madame, with dignity; soothee maker or tone are of little conse-
quence to you. There are a hundred pianos ii Rosenbloom, for
the use of the young ladies, besides the harps, guitars, violins,
&amp;c., in the Professor's art school, and not an aggravating tm pan
among them."
"But I choose this one," said Belle, pouting willfully, and
throwing up her eyes at madame, who had walked to hr side.
"I like this room, I shall have to practice here ; I always have
,ny way, everybody lets me."
"We have fixed rules, my dear, as unchangeable as the laws
of the Medes and Pe'rsians ; I can make no exceptions for you.
You finger well, you must have been an attentive pupil."
"I've had the best masters in New York; I should have been
there now if my cross old frump of an aunt hadn't meddled."
"That is not a proper style. of-speech about your relatives, my
dear. Since they have thought best to place-you here, I hope you
will be ,happy, and try to make progress. I expect ny young
ladies to do their best-nothing less than that will content me."
She closed the piano with an unruffled countenance, and rung.
the bell.
" Sarah, show this young lady to her room in the west corridor."
Belle rose; she could not well do less, and she rose gracefully.
She gazed full in madame's eyes an instant before she threw her
arms around her neck with a beautiful impulse.
"I'm a naughty child, but I haven't any mother ; I want you-
to love me."
"So I will" replied madame, melting at once; "I'll try to
supply the mother-want, poor dove."
"Oh thank you ;" Belle wiped her eyes. "I begin to be hap-
py already."
That's right, my child ; now go with Sarah," said madame,
dismissing her with a pat on her plump shoulder.
As soon as she got up stairs the  poor dove" called out
sharply:

«1Here youSarah, or whatever your name ,may be, take this
shawl! and remember that it is. your place to offer- such service."
"A vei-y beautiful girl," said madame to the dear old Professor.
"Very stylish indeed ; a little self-willed or so, and a good deal
spoiled,-but still very charming."
"They are all beautiful." After the-first glance he had scarcely
looked at Belle, and even seemed uneasy in her neighborhood ;
"but the kleinefraulein Goldsmichd is the loveliest of all, in spite
of her torn robe. She knows of Coleopteras, and can sing so !-'
the Prof. put his finger to his lips, and rolled up his eyes--.words
failed him,"
"Why Belle Brandon!" called out Zoe, as that young lady
appeared at her door, " where have you been ?"
The girls had not got very far in dressing, but were discussing
madame and their prospects, and some hard things had been said.
"I've been taking madame's measure," said Belle, tossing off
her curls.  She'll tell the clock to any business I say befits the
hour,' (as that odious Chandy says,) with all her school-ma'am
grandeur." She laughed lightly at their astonished faces.
"Bring me some ice-water directly," (imperiously to Sarah,)
" I shall bathe my face in it before I go down ; as I cannot get
my bath of asses-milk to-night, I'll try and make it do; so make
haste."
She tossed off her curls, and clapped her hands, merrily ap-
preciating the girls' bewildered faces, after poor, benighted Sarah
had gone- down.
Unlike most boarding schools, the -scholars at Rosenbloom were
not coupled together in little rooms, but each had a nice quiet
. apartment of her own, neatly furnished with a cottage set, and
ensuring absolute privacy. None of the demoralizing cooping
of the bad with the good in such positive juxtaposition as to en-
force intimacy and ensure corruption. Each girl was required to
keep her wardrobe in order ; each article had a place and must
keep it, subject to thg supervision of sharp-eyed Filer, who looked
so closely that not a shoe-lace could be away from home but. she
pounced on it, and who gave failures and ciphers with a smack.
of vast relish.


WIDOW GOLDSSMITiI's DAUGHTEuR.

The new-comers had a day of leisure before being required'
commence study, in which to ramble about, and enjoy themselves,
Peter, Cymbalinus, and Jan were to leave them the next morning,
and the boarders were all invited into the drawing-rooms for what
madame called 'a "social re-union," and very pleasant she made
such parties to her pupils, providing excellent refreshments, and
allowing them to enjoy their dancing and tete-a-tetes as if they
had been her own children. Belle wrote down Cymbalinus Adol-
phus under Jan Vedder in her note-book.
"Come out on, the gallery with me, Zoe," said Peter, in a
determined, straight-forwardl way. "I wish to speak alone with
you."
Zoe's color went and came, and she hung back. She knew
well what she was about to hear, and fluttered, and sighed, and
dreaded to give up her liberty.
"I'm afraid' I shall take cold, Peter."
" You were not afraid half an hour ago, when Chandy and you,
walked there, arid there has. been no change in the weather since
then-; I'll fetch your shawl."'
"If you insist, I suppose I must, but if I fall ill you will be
to blame."
"I do insist-I'll take the responsibility."
He put her shawl carefully about her shoulders, and took her
hand within his arm, and. walked half a dozen times up and back,
without a word; and, Zoe felt his heart beat against her arm, and
so she began to grow restive and saucy under his hesitation, and
tried to pull;away from him. He held her fast.
"I'm going away in the morning, Zoe."
" Did you bring nie out here to tell me that ? because if you did,
I think I might as well go in again. Belle Brandon is =beginning
to sing, and there is that Zambrano coming, I know he is looking
for me."
" Let her sing herself as hoarse as a raven, she can't have you
for audience ; and as- for that Cuban, he can go and take up with
her, she's made eyes enough at the fool. But never mind 1dm,
Zoe, I brought you out here to ask you to promise yourself to

me. I want to marry you, Zoe; you know how long I've loved
you.; why I never cared for another girl when I was a little shav-
er, and I've followed you about like a faithful dog ever since.
You are fond of calling me a 'ridiculous fellow,' perhaps I am,
but I love you, Zoe.; you will never find a chap who is up to
everything who will be so true and tender to you as I will. Why,
when you are sweet and good I just feel as if -I could take you
in my arms and carry you over all the rough places, and never
let anything hurt you; and -when you go on so like the fairy
changling that Pauline reads about, (I always think of you, Zoe,
so beautiful and so tantalizing-her own mother couldn't catch
her,) and it seems as if there wasn't any love in you for anybody,
and me especially, you take all the manhood out of me, so that I
am not good for anything, nothing is pleasant to me, I can't put
any heart into my 'work. You've been very hard on me since we
left home, and I can't bear it any longer; I'm determined to make
'an end of it. If you can't love me, I'll go home and try to live
somehow, I don't know   how, I'm sure; of course it won't
kill me ; I suppose the world would turn round just the same ;
but oh, Zoe ! if you can .only just say one little word to me, such
as I want to hear ! just look at me ! one'look will do. Look at
me, Zoe ; I can read my fate in your eyes."
He was so strong and earnest that Zoe was frightened,; and
tried to step past him, and kept her eyes. fixed on the ground,:
and gathered her shawl around her shoulders with trembling
hand.
"Not now, let me go, they will be looking for us."
"No," he replied, placing himself before her. "I must have
my answer now.. You shall not go with my heart in your hand,;
you shall speak. No, Zoe, do not try to get away from me, I am
resolved."
" What d6 you want me to say, then? - Don't1! you hurt my
wrist."
"Say you love me, Zoe !.Say you will be my wife!l Don't
send me out into the great empty. world without anything to hope
for. I Won't bother you about being married#; I will be patient;

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.


f

WIDOW GOLDSMITHS DAUGHTER.

559'

558- .        WIDOW OLDsmITH's DAUGHTER.
I can live a good while on the assurance that your heart is"safe in,
my keeping, without asking for more. All your heart, all your
love, I know you won't insult me with anything 'less than all.
Dearest Zoe!"
He putout his strong hand and tried to draw her to him; she
trembled and fluttered, and turned her little head, looking for
escape, and finding none, she raised her eyes, Which were full of
unquiet light,.and met his, bent upon her, and saw that his face
was white and his glance beseeching ; but still underlying his
.modest self-depreciation there was manly strength, a certain pow-.
erful repose ; and shining over all, the glory of his great love: and
she let herself be drawn to his'arms.,
"I shall vex and tease you all the same," said she with pout-
ing lips. "I am not going to be a cooing dove, and I hate being
engaged, its so stupid."
"Very well, darling, then we'll go and get married. Pity Otho
was'nt a Parson instead of a Dr. We might finish our engage-
ment to-night, nothing could suit me so well."
"INo indeed, sir ! not for two years at least. I'm to flirt and
dance, with everybody and you are not to- say a word against it."
My Zoe shall be guided as she always has been by her good
sense and good feeling. What is that Chandy says? I've thought
of you when I heard it."
"'Tis not to make me jealous,
To say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company,
Is free of speech, sings, plays, dances well, 1
Where virtue is, these are more virtues ;
Nor from mine own weak merits will draw
The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt,
For she had eyes and chose me."
"Hush,;you horrid Peter," said Zoe, blushing deep.  "'You've
been learning that by heart on purpose to teaze me with it."
"My 'Zoe, good, true, dear Zoe, how I. love you."  He was so
brimming with joy, and held her so firmly, and rained down such
passionate kisses upon her face, that she looked up half doubting

his identity. It did not seem as if it could, be honest, steady
oing Peter ; and she struggled to free herself.
"Not yet, not yet. You are mine now, I must hold you a lit-
tle more. Pretty soon you will go back into that room among
all those people, and I shall be ever so far away from you, but I
shall call you to me after a little while, and you must come be-
cause you belong to 'me. Just one more, darling. Oh I have
waited so long for this. I have earned it, hav'nt I Zoe? You
cruel, wicked little beauty. Sam says you've twisted me round
your finger. 'Tis a pretty little finger. Well, yes, I suppose you
must go; but Zoe, I've such 'a pair of ponies breaking for you.
They'll drive like lambs, and the wind can't catch them; and Zoe,
there's a phaeton at Munger's, invisible green body, anddouble
'springs, just the thing for them ; how pretty you will look, driv-
ing them., I'm so fond of your smart bright ways. Tell. me
something I can do for you."
" Oh you ridic,---"began Zoo through tears and smiles.
" Say it, Zoe. I don't mind it now. You are mine. Youlove
me. Im so happy, dear. Are you happy?"
Zoo dropped a quick soft kiss upon his hand, and darted away;
but she did not appear in the parlor any more, and honest Peter
went in and sat down in the corner, and smiled at the; carpet and
hugged his joy, and could hardly believe 'it was all done and-ixed.
The next morning, the young men went away. Poor Cymba-
linus too down-hearted even, to originate a conundrum.: Jan Ved-
der with a little glovein his pocket, smelling of heliotrope, which
he had exchanged for a flashing ruby, worth a plum, which had
gleamed on the finger of one of his Holland grandmothers and
counted himself a gainer by the operation, and rosy 'cheeked
Peter, his head erect, and his manly heart full of plansfor little
Zoe's happiness-Zoe, who stood tearful and saucy, waiving her
white handkerchief after him-and then they all turned to the busi-
ness of the little world which they were to inhabit for a year. and a
day. The five- hundred scholars were soon arrived, and the school-
room settled to its regular routine. Chris was youngest of them
all, and being sorely deficient- in the text-book knowledge which


WIDOW GOLDS MITH'S DAUGHiTER.      561i

teachers call education, she was obliged to apply herself assid-
uously. She found- mathematics "no go."  She could not make
head or tail of them, and after putting her best energies to the
proof, after secret struggles, and headaches innumerable, she re-
solved in desperation to carry her troubles to Professor Noble,
and make a clean breast of it, and ask for absolution. Belle
considered her a shining mark for her sarcasm, and pointed her
out with whispered comments to the girls, when she rose to make
one of her blundering recitations, where X plus Y minus Z was
never equal to anything in particular,. and A was always an un-
known quantity: said girls tittering and grinning as those hard
hearted wretches always will. And Miss Belle did not pursue
her amusement with the less perseverance because the Professor
discovered her one day with a key in her lap,.and made her stand
at the board .during the recitation and work out her examples in
the presence of the class. She rose gracefully, and spread out her
skirts and stepped forth, unruffled in appearance, delighted with
the opportunity of being consciously beautiful, and sure of sym-
pathy from the masculines, and she enriched her work with a
spirited caricature of Chris and the Professor, each in spectacles,
their noses touching, which she .stood aside just long enough for
the class toy-see; and extinguished with her sponge, almost be-
fore ,the explosive burst of laughter greeted the ears of the only
two persons.in the room who had not seen the show. Though the
irate Professor inquired .diligently, he could get no reason for
the mirth, that is, nothing, satisfactory to himself, for there were
whimsical causes assigned as plenty as blackberries.
Chris felt the keenest mortification at her dullness, and limited
capacity, yet when history or the natural sciences formed the theme,
or language, the class hung or her words delighted. Professor
Noble had been silently observent of her struggles and her des-
pair, and carefully studying the bias and complexion of her mind,
he was waiting for the time to help her. He was one of the few
teachers who think it worth while to follow the leading of nature
in developing the powers God bestowed,'instead of striving to bring
up All to the same .line and level, He .,fitted his culture to the

peculiar conformation of his pupils' intellect, and with the happiest
result. He saw that i --would be labor lost to put Chris through
mathematical training, besidesspoiling her school-life and making
her wretched; because God in his wisdom had not seen fitto bestow
on her the right kind of intellect. He therefore willingly consent-
ed to allow her fine energies to expand in other directions, loving-
ly, grandly. "You must do arithmetic enough to keep your
household accounts, and buy your dry goods," said he,'" and that
will have to content us. If you wish it, I will, myself write - to
your friends my ideas on'the subject, and make it 'easy for you."
"It will not be necessary, sir," said 'Chris, dropping: her eyes,
"I am at liberty to pursue such course of study as you shall ap-
prove."
The. Professor leveled his glasses at her in surprise. Her sor-
rowful accent and downcast flushing face, set him, thinking. After
that he was always tenderly 'kind -to his new scholar, and delight-
ed himself greatly in her rare gifts, and in giving her the hardest
tasks, to which she sprang joyously. No labor was too much.
No application too severe, and he opened his eyes in wonder every
day at the stores of miscellaneous learning he found, and he
caressed his Phi Delta Kappa key, with his favorite twirl, hugely
enjoying himself in listening, after setting her off on some dar-
ling theme.   Her dreamy eyes, now    sparkling, now humid,
and her flexible voice, never loud, but its intonations fine and
clear as a bobolink's song, her English of the choicest and simp-
lest, and her self-forgetfulness absolute.  A sudden still ness
always prevailed. Even Chandy left off stealing hair-pins fr6n
Sabrina's amber braids, who sat in front of him, and Zoe indited
no notes and. drey no caricatures, till Chris sat down ; often
dropping into her place and pursuing the theme in her thoughts.
Belle sometimes got up a little-laugh at her oddities, twisting
her handkerchief for instance, a habit which still clung to her ;
but it was'nt much; and the time was a golden harvest for our
Chris. All her clothes were new and perfect, and she needed
little thought, to look. well dressed.. Otho kept his word, and
drilled her faithfully on the violin, and she had all the early morn-

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTERS


562         WIDOW   GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
ings for her piano practice and singing lessons, with the promise
of taking the harp, as soon as her master thought her ready for
it. He had not forgotten the mathematical lessons, and meant
she should have them, but would not cloud her days by insisting
on them just now' The blossom.and fullness of her life he loved
to watch quietly. The dear old Professor took her joyfully into
the inner chainber of his child-like heart, and on the long Satur-
day excursions, she carried his basket and listened with wrapt at-
tention to his talk. ThelWednesday art school was opened to
her, in spite of propriety scruples (she wearing the only petticoat)
and Madame gave in. That high potentate was too busy in the
first weeks to scrutinize her very closely,, and Sabrina and Zoe
kept watchful eyes upon her appointments. So she abandoned
'herself to her dear employments with intense relish;and unflagging
zeal  In all her after life she never forgot the delights of this
time, and its solid benefits were priceless treasures,
0*

,         I,

CHAPTER THIRTY-S EV ENTH.
THE MAGIC PEAR.
It was drawing close on to the end of the term, and Miss Filer
was working her classes for the examination. The girls com-
plained that she did not give them time to breathe, and Zoe pro-
mulgated the opinion that it would'nt be safe forold Filer to leave
herself out in a high wind, and run the risk of blowing away, for
she would whiffle and whirl up and down like a withered leaf.
There was a great deal of feeling about the prizes. * Professor
Noble offered one of twenty dollars for the best Latin prose.
Madame a handsome Chinese worktable, all furnished with ivory
winders, scissors, needle-books, tape measures, bodkins, besides no
end of puzzles and boxes,. all beautifully carved, for the best
English composition. Besides there were prizes for declamation
and different recitations, from the other teachers, all valuable and
choice. ' Both the young gentlemen and ladies were to compete
for them, and of course there was a vast deal of table-talk on
the subject. The meals at Rosenbloom were gay affairs. The
young men were scattered about among the girls, and required "to
attend to the little courtesies of the table with scrupulous exactness.
Madame permitted no infringement or neglect from the sitting
down to the rising up. When she detected any such, she called
the' offender to her private room and read him or her a. lecture,
so kind and judicious, but withal so 'imperative, that' there was
little danger of a lapse. She sat at the head of the table, and the
dear old Professor opposite,- and promoted social and pleasant in-
tercourse, helped by enjoyment of excellent appetizing food, pre-
pared in the best manner, and handsomely served. Deborah,
(563)


564          wIDow GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
though she sent many boxes of goodies to Chris, which the girls
rifled ruthlessly, and troubled herself a good 'deal about her
condition, would not have felt any fears if she could have inspect-
ed the Rosenbloom housekeeping. She could have scarcely done
it better herself, and that is high praise. Madame was splendid
and grand in all her arrangements, both from choice and policy.'
The grand Christmas party was in anticipation. The particu-
lar festivity of the year, and looked forward to through all the
last-half as a great occasion. They were accustomed to call it a
christmas party, because it commenced their holidays, but really
it 'was four days before, so as to give the scholars time to return
to their several homes before the precious time of "good gifts to
men."  Dresses were gotten down and commented upon, and dis-
cussions of fabrics and styles ran'glibly from these nimble tongues
to whom a party was still a "party," and whose absolute seclusion
magnified the importance of all events in their little world.
Belle Brandon went about from room to room, enjoying her
favorite amusement of pulling over the girls finery, trying on
their dresses, and appropriating to her own use articles which she
could coax or buglel" into her possession. Belle stood well in the
school-room; she was one of those showy, dashing scholars, who
are the delight of such teachers as revel in examinations. There
she shone resplendent-never dashed or put off her balance by
anything. By dint of coaching, borrowing, and rapid study, she-
was always ready to elicit applause from the audience.
She and Chris were among the finest vocalists in the school,
and were to sing a duet together graduation day, and she nearly
drove her prima wild in their practice, by her false singing
and ear-splitting screams, looking all the time as blandly uncon-
scious as innocence itself; and when Chris, provoked beyond
measure, darted away from the piano, and scolded and abused
her, and declared she couldn't and wouldn't bear it, Belle would
sit dowin and begin some ballad or romaunt, and render it with
such true pathos as would arrest her flying footsteps, and hold-
her with the door-knob in her hand perhaps, till it was finished.
Then Belle would slip away and bring back somebody to look at

wIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.     .    565

and laugh at her plunged in a dream of troubadours and Provence
maids. There was no danger of failure, though, for both sang at
sight, and sang well.
My lord Chandos had made up his mind, after much talking,
and many smokes over the topic, to go across the big pond, and
had persuaded Sam to accompany him, being, as Sam had whim-
sically put it, " both brought up by hens," and masters of them-
selves, all they had to do was to mature their intentions and exe-
cute them.
Perhaps one reason why Sam was so ready to cut loose from
Rosenbloom was that Sabrina- well, I don't know-I can't tell
-but he certainly did say, when .he saw her bending over the
billiard table, with her eyes on the red ball, and her pretty fingers
guiding the cue-well!
" What care I how fair she be ?
So she be not fair for me."
'But perhaps after all he was not in love, for he was as genial
and pleasant as ever, and they were excellent friends.
'Bertha sighed in secret over the proposed trip, which.was the
theme of so much talking in her presence; but she listened' with
sympathizing face, and ran to the-school--oom when she was sent
after maps, and rubbed up her French on purpose to look over
the same page of the "Guidechaix," and read aloud the objects of
interest they would have to visit.
As usual, Master Chandy had been sailing easily along,.in the
very middle of .the current, a favorite with everybody, his horses
at their service, confidential and devoted to every pretty girl he
found at his elbow ; precise and clear in his scholarship, without
ever seeming to study. :ie and Sam had departed from their
original lofty intention ;of confining, themselves to the art and
music school, and they took studies which the;girls were pursuing,
for the pleasure of flirting and =writing notesIto their favorites, as
much as from any eagerness after knowledge; and poor, dreary
Filer got nearly frantic sometimes over Chandy's quips and quib-
bles, his Shaksperean quotations, and.questions so' easy to ask and


566        - WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

I

difficult to answer, and she bestowed failures right and left, as her
only safety-valve. She tried argument, but he%'left her stranded
high and dry in no time.
Prof. Noble enjoyed him ever so much, and Chris followed
their class-talk with smiling eyes, and a little absent prompt once
in a while, when a hard name slipped from the memory of either.
But' Chandy's dearest "mate " was the dear old Professor, dating,
oddly enough, from a practical joke at his expense played off by
the audacious youngster soon after his. advent at Rosenbloom.
Besides being a zealous cultivator of roses, the Professor grew
pears con amore, and half the dark cupboards in the house were
filled with the ripening ,specimens in fruiting time, besides the
drawers in his bureau, which were emptied of his shirts and cnom-
panion wearables, to give place to Bon Cretans, Flemish Beauties,
and other interlopers, while the rightful occupants, were huddled
out of sight anyhow, as of very minor importance.
He had one tall tree which, though it grew and grew like Jack's
bean-stalk, had not as yet done anything else, and having already
over-topped the roof-tree of the great mansion, it was climbing
still.- Chandy discovered the old fellow one day in his dressing-
gown and tasseled cap, (his favorite costume,) standing beneath
it, his hands crossed in his wide sleeves, his face lifted, gazing re-
proachfully up among the shining green.
"Ah," said. he, in plaintive accents, "why will you still refuse,
ungrateful,. to bestow on me eine-kieinie birne, to reward all my
care and love ?  Others, not half so well tended, yield of their
increase, but thou, ungrateful, mockest all my toili!"
Candy moved softly away. That evening he procured a rosy
cheeked, long-necked. "Dix," ran a wire through the stem, and
fastened it skillfully among the topmost branches.
The next morning, bright and early, he and Sam were at their
window, watching the coming steps of the Professor, in his reg-
ular stroll among his garden aAd orchard pets. Soon he came
slowly along, picking a leaf here, caressing a branch there, gath-
ering -a-posey of late- flowers, a breakfast offering, to madaie,
a fashion he had always held from the time of his betrothal. He

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.              567
stopped, as usual, beneath his favorite, because his most thriftless,
handsome tree, and raised his noble old face, smiling and thought-
ful. Suddenly his eye caught something high up among the
shining green, which arrested his attention.. Could it be that all
his care.was to be rewarded at last ? a healthy, perfect fruit,
hanging slyly there, growing and ripening in secret! It was like
a miracle ! and he thought he knew every branch, nay, every
quivering leaf, by heart. He took off his' glasses, wiped them
hastily on his coat-sleeve, and looked eagerly upward.
" It is ! it is ! iPomona be thanked ! I have it at last, a true
'Dix!"
He dropped his posey, and ran breathless for his long fruit-
ladder; mounted higher ! higher ! panting with excitement. It
was within his reach! his fingers grasped it! he pulled softly, tei-
derly, it was so lusciously ripe! -But it did not yield to his ca-
ressing touch ; he pulled harder, still it' did: not come. -He
carefully mounted the next rung of his uncertain ladder, and
brought 1his glasses to bear.
"Ah! Gott in Himmel! vas -is das, so, so? It has de stem for
the vire ! 'Tis von treek ! von prangk ! but I shall eat .it all the
same."  And carefully untwisting it, and turning cautiously
about and bringing his back against the ladder, he slowly melted
the juicy lusciousness into his mouth with absolute enjoyment.
"Vara goot, vara goot indeedt," said he, bowing many times, and
drawing out his-vast bandana to wipe his lips; " thangs, mine un-
knowndt friendt."
A burst of hearty laughter from naughty Chandy in the window
close by him, pointed the moral and adorned the tale, and the'Pro-
fessor shook his fist good-naturedly at him as he descended.; That
evening he sent a dish of magnificent Bartletts, with his compli-
ments to the young .gentlem-an, which put. an effectual period to
exploits in that line, and they were -fast friends thenceforth.
Though so many months shut up 'in this school-world, Chris
remained a stranger and .an alien among these five hundred young
people, the Roaring Riverites being still almost' her only friends.
They moved before her, and went and came, like shadows, scarce-

I


568        WIDOW GOLDSMITH1's DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       569

ly jostling her in her course. If any of them addressed her she
replied concisely ; if they asked assistance she rendered it prompt-
ly, and felt relieved when they left her alone again. Though all
respected her abilities, none asked her friendship; as for cronies
and chums, she had no definite appreciation of the terms.
Something very like a miracle had happened to her-she had
conquered algebra, under Otho's teaching, who was absolute,
would accept no apology, acknowledge no inability. Prof. Noble
said it must be magnetism or love, and his sly eyes twinkled
through his glasses as he said it in the softest, smoothest voice
imaginable; and he made a quaint joke about a E.xolaaurtxo, which
he supposed would go over Chris's head, and didn't. But neither
of the gentlemen knew what labor she had undergone to please
her imperious betrothed. She conquered as by fire.
As an essayist and contributor to the Chip Basket, she was
much sought after, and though Filer cut up her pieces when she
could, and marked out all the-fire and point when she dared, they
were always applauded, and her little poems had the, trick and
knack of drawing tears sometimes, as they used among the. dear
lovers at home ; and the young gentlemen were fond of spearing
questions at -'. G., hoping to entangle her in her talk, su.h as-
"Who brought the good news from Ghent to Aix ?" and " Who
said the Venitian women were mezzo camo, mezzo lingo, (half.
flesh, half wood,) and why ?"  "What is the tradition.of Herne's
oak, and where did it stand ?"  "What kin was the heir of Lnne
to John o' the Scales ?" - To all which C. G. returned ready and
concise answers in the coming paper, so clearly and beautifully
worked up, as to afford unmixed delight to the hearers-teachers,
scholars, and invited guests.
One of her Communications, "A Chapter on By-Words," made
a great stir, and she got some ill-natured comments from parties
who felt hit, but it was productive of good, for it originated a
"Society for the. preservation of the English language in purity,"
and they had great fun in making up lists of tabooed words, and
collecting fines from offenders._
Chris was doubly. wrapped just now, for besides competing for

the prizes, she was working for something she greatly coveted.
The dear old Professor had offered a year of free tuition, in-
cludine board and other expenses, in his art school, to the pupil
whose reports showed best scholarship. Luckily scholarship and
deportment were reckoned separately, or poor Chris would have
had slender chance. Belle took malicious pleasure in pointing
out all her shortcomings and careless slips to Filer; unnecessary
trouble on her part, for the thin teacher's eyes were of gimlet
sharpness as well as size, and she always pounced on unfortunate
Chris with vast relish. Never was a glove or shoe, out of place
but Filer was sure to find it out. Poor sharp-faced, red-nosed
Filer! whom the girls led such a life, and whose days were like
Mr. Mantilini's, " one demnition grind."  She particularly disliked
Chris ; she thought she held her up to ridicule because she quite
unconsciously tripped up her stale facts, and blew away the little
pet scraps of showy, threadbare learning, which were her power in
her classes, and gladly would she have welcomed a flaw in her
recitations, and closely did she watch for a chance at her.
Madame regarded Chris curiously, and veered strangely in her
feelings and conduct toward her. In class she could not suffi-
ciently commend her. She treated her with absolute respect, and
always spoke of her to the pupils as a bright example of scholar-
ship.  Otherwheres, she was- cold, sour, exacting, and often
haughty. So long as Otho stayed it was all smooth and pleas nt
*   enough, though she pretefided no fondness even in'his presence.
In fact their acquaintance made no advance, for Chris never spoke
an unnecessary word where- she was, or looked at her when' she
could look otherwheres. After six happy weeks Otho obeyed an
urgent appeal from his old friend to come quickly, as he had got
a warning in the shape of 'a stroke which left his right hand use-
less ; and he desired to set his house in order preparatory to the
long journey; and so he left his place unwillingly, breaking in
upon the pleasant 'routine, and going inth exile for an uncertain
period. Alas! with his departure, it must be told that Chris re-
turned to her old careless never-mind fashions; insensibly, but
surely, one torn article was replaced by another; holes were pii-


570          WIDOW GOLDSMIiTH's :DAUGHTER.
ned up, and gathers tucked in, and in these last days of hard
study and, close practice, Sabrina and Zoe had enough to do, and
left her to herself. She never forgot to write to Deborah, how-
ever, and every Saturday saw a long letter dispatched to her good
friend, which was,read over and over by the worthy couple, and
served for the theme of their fire-side talk all. the week through.
Chris did not study in the school-room, but went and came
with her class, and locked her own apartment against all intruders.
Meanwhile Otho, busy among his papers, (he was looking over
the business which his friend desired him to have,),would cease
from:his labors and -let his thoughts flit back to Rosenbloom,
holding in his hand one of her delightful epistles, feasting his soul
upon it ;, so racy, witty, comprehensive, epigrammatic: ever fresh,
ever nev. -He thought of her as he saw her up at Craigenfells,
in her quaint black satin and little frilled apron, and the Sappho
knot, 'around which were wound such pleasant memories; at the
horseback party, in habit of ancient cut, and dainty gauntlets, as
if she might have owned a merlin on her wrist, and of the good
.understanding she had conquered for herself with wild Zephyr;.
of the sick-room days, when she had shown him so unconsciously
the ,depth and sweetness of her woman's nature ; and still oftener
of ,the last evening at Rosenbloom, when, perfected under Sa-
brina's friendly touch, she came down to his side, so shyly beau-
tiful, sodelicately lady-like, and he had whispered, with a caress,
as he placed her before the long mirror and showed her how
lovely she was, "Promise me, Sappho, always to lookalike this;"
and she had promised, and meant to keep her word-meant to,
and did not ; alas ! for the wicked grip, the giant Habit holds.
And Mr. Otho was never weary of telling, himself how richly
endowed his darling was, how soul-satisfying in conversation, how'
shy and daring, how stately and playful, how childish and woman-
ly she could be by turns, and how unexpectedly she would flit
from one state to the other, all and only for him; and he found
himself recalling her remarks, her apt quotations. He took up
a new book, and as he read she came and sat by him, and he laid
down the volume, and resting his chin in his hand, he seemed

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       571

living over an autumn evening. Without-the dead leaves flute
tearing in the wind, and the sober grey rocks and many-tinted
mountains keeping watch over the Iake-rippled and streaked wkh
foam; the old weather-cock on the great hay barn, shifting and
twirling, unsettled in his mind.  Within-a light fire on the
library hearth, and he, Otho, in an arm chair smoking and watch.
ing the face he loves best, bent' over an open volume. Presently
she closes it, and rises with,- a discontented sigh, and comes and
stands at the other corner of the hearth, and crosses her arms and
gazes into the coals.
."Have you finished, Sappho ?"
"Yes, I believe so, and though I know it must be rank heresy,
I heartily wish I had my two dollars in my hand again. Is it
not passing strange' that a .strong-minded woman who evolves
startling theories which bewilder and astonish the wise ones, and
cause them to wag their heads in terror, and who lives and dis-
ports herself in an atmosphere of her own creation, should be
afraid of a poor little black-eyed mouse, playing harmlessly about
her chamber, and should think it worth while to tell the public
all about it, and how she sat up in bed, sleepless, dreading an at-
tack, and threw her pillows at it ; and there- is another chapter,
where all the wit turns upon th supposition that the mice have
grown to be rats."
" Would it not be more modest to suppose a want of apprecia-
tion in yourself?"'
" Would it not have been more sensible of her to tuck herself
quietly into bed and pleasant dreams, and left the harmless mice
to their revels ?"
Then Mr. Otho remembered the true tale he had told her of a
German mouse, which used'to come out and dance every evening
when he and his friend Max played their violins: and how glee-
fully she 'laughed, and what pointed questions she asked him about
Max' young sister, who danced with him 'at the balls,' and how-
they had wound up the evening-with a lesson on the Trois temrs,.
and how she had promised to dance it with him at the Christmas
party and keep it; asecret from everybody. Proud Otho danced


572        WIDOW. GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

like a gentleman, and taught Chris as he did algebra and the vio-
lin and a host of things, after she overcame her awe of him and
leai'ned to trust him; and he said, "I will not have that.old ani-
mal who calls himself a Frenchman pulling my Chris about, and
looking at her out of. his wicked old eyes, like an ancient spider
whose web is complete."
But after all, it was with the dear old Professor that Chris
came out in the fullest richness of her powers. She loved hire
so dearly, and had 'such a tacit-understanding with him. As in
water, face answereth to face, she knew what every glance meant,
and every tap of his fore-finger on his lip when he was accustomed
to say "'so so ;" and she watched to see him tumble his hair fran-
tically over her drawings, because then she knew she would have
torrents of hard words launched at her presently, and absurd
threats of terrific punishments to freeze the blood, which would
make her laugh heartily. He had a St.'Alexis she was fond of
copying, in his pilgrim hat and staff, and she begged him to per-,
mit her to put it upon canvas.
" Indeed, my master, I can do it," said she, hanging over him
as he worked 'at his great Mythological picture, for, like all(paint-
ers who love their art; he had a favorite dream he was striving to
embody, and turned to it-from his duties for rest and- enjoyment,
though no pupil except Chris ever saw him put brush to it.
He shook his head and shrugged his shoulders. Chris straight-
ened his cap over his gray curls. "Nay, my master, it is not
seemly for you to wear your tassel so low. The rollicking style
does not suit you. .You could never run with'the masheen. And
do-not put me down so decidedly. My own papa gave me some
lessons."  (She grew more earnest as she went on.)  "I feel sure
I can do it. I know a good deal about colors ; I remember the
names of nearly all papa used ; he used to let me bring them to
him, and I have seen him mix them, the Biacca, and Azzura di
Terra, and the Verditto. Papa liked Italian names and fashions,
and I helped him fix his oils in their water-baths, and set them
in the sun, and heat his varnish to keep his pictures-from bloom-
ing."-

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

573

" Ah! so, so; blooming;' vas is das, fraulein ?  Explain if
you please," said the Professor, stopping to look through 'his
tubed hand at the Hesperis matronalis (Dames' violet) he was.
working up petal by petal in the vase which it was his fancy to
introduce close to the Cathedra occupied by his bride. And
showing his face to her afterwards, so clear-eyed and uiet, that
she had no idea of the secret amusement she was affording him,
and she went on airing her knowledge, extremely anxious to
prove herself worthy to copy they St. Alexis.
" Ah, master! faithless, unbelieving ! you think I am not able;
but I assure you I do not forget anything papa, told me. I loved
him so much, and the 'life up in his studio was so pleasant, when
he talked to me about his art. I should have painted figures be-
fore this time if he had lived, I am sure. He would have let me
copy anything I asked."
" Ah, ja, ja, fraulein. . Good child, I am going to be the kind
master to my little pupil, but.I must hear about the ' blooming'
first."
"'It is the fault of the varnish, the bloom. It is like the look of
a ripe grape or a plum, and spoils the transparency of the coloring
-makes it clouded. Moisture does it, either in the picture or
the varnish, and is best prevented by applying it hot, first taking
care to dry the tints; and you can remove it with a soft sponge,
dipped in hot oil of'  , oh dear, what was it now."  Chris put
up her hand to her forehead and thought.
' Was it bitter almonds ? That is 'what ladies use sometimes,
mixed with bi-chlorate of mercury and ammonia. They think
it will give them a bloom; but it is a- very un-pious delusion.
They are sure to find it so after a trial. Now you did not know
that, fraulein, I'll engage, for all you are so- vara much learned
in art."
"No, my master, those matters are too high for me.. But may
I not copy the ' Alexis?"'
"Ja, fraulein;' here is' a canvas ready mounted. You shall
commence directly."  He meant all the while to consent, but he
loved to see her changing face go 'through its moods, and hear


WIDOW GOLDSMITH S DAUGHTER.G

her clear voice begging him, and feel her, light touch upon his
shoulder and .hand, before he gave in. He loved .her. like a
daughter, and he turned from his work to smile at her bent figure
as she sat in her favorite corner of his studio, absorbed and happy.
She gave her saint every odd minute of time, and worked early
and late,- carefully covering it away behind Herr Groenveldt's
" Dream" when she had to leave it.
" Ah!" said the Professor, one twilight, when she had nearly
completed it, and he bent over to inspect it for. the first time.
 Ah1so so. You call this St. Alexis. The. Pilgrim hat and
staff are his, ja, ja, so are the flowing garments, but the face
seem's to we as the face of St. Otho, uncanonized. Sly little maid.
But this is not your first sketch of the Saint. In your portfolio
there- isa drawing vara mooch legs, with the peaked hat and a1so-"
Chris stopped his mouth with her hand, and her cheek burned,
but she met his glance with a clear confidence, she could never
give to her mother. " Now good master you shall keep-my secret:-
this is my christmas gift. Do you think he will like it? and might
I put in a Swiss mountain ?"
"Nay Fraulein, you have a right to fancy your saint as you
will, because Otho's face is noble enough, but Swiss mountains---
that would be--how call you it-incongruous. The picture has
great perfection, just the gray rock, and mossy wall.. The Alexis
is admirable' a most grand figure. Ah Fraulein! if you were
but a man you should give your life to art and to me, but it is
sweeter I suppose to be a woman and give it to Otho. I hope
he knows its value."-
Many themes did the master and pupil discuss, and the girls
wondered how she could drone off so much time up there, and'
still have perfect recitations, and scholarly themes. They had
quaint jokes, sometimes in Latin, sometimes in Portuguese, and
sometimes in the gutteral utterances of the Father-land. The
Professor had lived in Brazil and painted the flowers and birds
and butterflies, and was teaching Chris the language.
It was a happiness, perhaps, which was not altogether good for
our Chris. *A life of books, music, art, bearing her away from

the practical, the real and common place, making her impatient
of, the prattle and froth she got, whenever she did 'chance to be
near the knots of girls who discussed the fashions, the beaux, the
partiys and fetes they were to have in "society," and who nudged
each other, and whispered "queer' specimen," " odd creature,"
" such a guy," etc., whenever she appeared.
As the Professor's fingers were seldom free from inkstains, (he
made numberless copies of violin music for his pupils,,and wrote
whole scores for his Beethoven chorus class,) he found no fault with
the often sprinkled robes of his favorite. As he had a habit of
rumpling and tossing his gray locks, while he studied, he saw no
cause for reproof in her knotted curls; even the old blanket shawl
which covered such 'a multitude of sins was a fair fellow to his
studio gown. One thing is certain, through all her- untidiness
and sinful carelessness, Chris grew lovely' with every day. Her
face seemed to unlock, and her soul looked out at her eyes. A
charming light irradiated her features, fed from within; her fig-
ure rounded, and her step sprang lightly, her-head poised grace-
fully, her- color deepened and cleared, simply because her life
suited her, and her longings were fed from exhaustless supplies.
All she had ever imagined of school life came far short' of the
ecstatic reality. Chandy sometimes fixed her attention and brought
her up with a round turn, by a cutting joke on her buttons or
finger-nails, and while the slight impression lasted, she gave duti-
ful heed; but he was busy--occupied with his preparations' for
departure, and his art school, and his " dear five hundrel." 'So
it was that Chris, whom no mother-love had tended and fostered
and yet who had so pure 'a heart, so glorious an intellect, and such
rare cultivation, was. so absolutely, lamentably wanting, where
other women delight to shine, and was left, poor child, to work
out her life through many trials.

.,; 4 .

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S - DAUGHTER.      5.77

CHAPTER THIRTY-EIGHTH.
BELLE'S LITTLE GAME.
It was five o'clock,, the air clear and stinging cold without,
and the evening lamps not yet lighted at Rosenbloon. Belle
Brandon stood before the drawing-room window, breathing upon
its frosted panes, rubbing them with her handkerchief; and rocks
and grottoes and feathery foliage vanished at her touch. . She was
trying to see Chandos Goldsmith and Sam, who, wrapped in furs,
were about to go sleighing. "A trial trip," as Chandy said of his
new mare, Mignone. It was not much of their faces that she
could see, for they wore tall Labrador caps, and vast beaver col-
lars and gloves. They strutted up and down, puffing at their
cigars, chatting and laughing, and Belle got impatient, and tapped
her fingers on the'glass, and drew her handsome brows together.
Chandy's cigar went out, and he stopped before the window to
light it again. She saw the bright flash of the match he drew,
and heard the snap of the explosion, and then Sam's exclamation,
" Who has been down after brimstone," but had not time to catch
Chandy's answer, when the black mare came tearing up to the
door.
"I hope that odious Chandy won't get his brains dashed out,"
said she. Peering out,  she saw them pass the gates of Rosen-
bloom, speeding towards the lake, and the jingle of the merry
bells grew fainter ; then she floated gracefully out of the drawing-
room: five or six of the young Cubans were conversing together
around the fire, and the opportunity for an effect was. not to be
lost; but once the door fast behind her, she ran swiftly up the
(576)

stairs, and pushed into Mary Ann Williams' room :"'Come!1"
said she, "the way is clear, hurry, before the supper bell brings
them all out, like knocking on a hive brings forth the bees."
"I won't stir a step unless you promise me faithfully to get the
excuse from madame."
" I have promised, simpleton, I'll repeat it as many times as
you like, only come on, quick."
"You. don't always keep your promises," grumbled Mary Ann,
" and I know-I never can write a-composition on ' the statics and
dynamics of society.' I don't 'even know what the words mean."
"I think Professor Noble was amusing himself with you when
he gave you that subject, but n'importe you shall have your excuse,
and save the fifty credits on your report for the Deacon, if you
come directly; if you don't, I'll go alone, and leave you to fight
your dynamics as you can."  She seized her by the arm, and as
Mary Ann early learned to submit to physical force, she readily
obeyed, and the two ran up the broad flight of 'steps, through the
'gymnasium, and down the art-students hall till they reached the
second corridor, north wing. They stopped at Chandy's door. It
is not necessary to tell how Belle knew her way, here where- no
ladies came. She took hold of the right door knob at any rate,
and paused an' instant to listen. All was still and the corridor
unlighted.
" Quick now," whispered Belle, " on the center-table, open the
portfolio in the first folding. I saw it this morning, but Roger
came along and I had to run for my life. Here is a match, there's
a drop-light on the table."  She pushed Mary.Ann through the
door and watched breathlessly. She counted the seconds which
she spent in fumbling among the papers after the flame flashed
up.

"Oh dear, what shall I do !" whispered 'the girl, "I've upset
the ink bottle."
" Have you the sketch ?"
"Yes, I've got that safe, but the ink is running."
"Stop it with your handkerchief."
"I can't, oh dear. It' will spoil the carpet."

as

,,        l  i


578          WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
" What if it does, come along, never mind the carpet."
Belle felt as the old magician did while she waited at the door
of the cave, to get the lamp, and Aladdin 'would'nt budge.
"I won't come till I've set this up. It 'll be found out some-
how I know. Oh dear, do come here and help me.",
Belle heard a. door above her shut hastily, but having once or
twice before run against this idiosyncrasy in her foil, she knew,
her bearings, and glancing hurriedly both ways, and seeing nothing,
she rushed in and seized a handkerchief which Tlay on the table
and sopped up the dripping blackness, and twitching the paper
out of Mary Ann's hand, and pushing the soiled handkerchief
into it, she said-"
" Take that to your room and burn it up, and shut the door
after you," and off she darted, leaving her foil in the dark. She
heard voices on the stairs talking in Spanish-flying swiftly on,
she 'reached the gymnasium door, it was locked-either the spring
bolt had shot in, or' Roger in his rounds had fastened it behind
him. There was nothing for it but to go down to the second floor
and out through the great school-room. She ran down and met
Mary Ann going up. - She was sobbing, half scared, out of her
wits, and she seized fast hold of Belle's skirts.' .
" You shan't run away ! you know I'm afraid of the dark, let
alone being over here, where I've no business, and don't know the
way.
"Come along, don't be a -fool. That door is fast, we must go
by the school-room ;" and. dragging her, she hurried on. The
corridor was empty, but some boys were at ball in the play-room
opposite the school-room, and the door was ajar. Turning the
knob softly, Belle whisked safely through. But just as Mary
Ann was passing the threshold,- a boy came chasing his ball out
into the corridor.
" Hillo ! here's a petticoat ! on our side of the house, come on
boys, let's see who is out of bounds."
The whole party came pushing and scrambling on, and Miss
Belle felt how narrow a chance she ran of exposure and' disgrace.
The penalties for her' offence were heavy, and she fled as if fiends

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.'

579

were chasing her-upsetting a stool and desk, and stumbling
over the water jar, 'splashing her stockings-but she did not 'go
down, and made good her flight with a bruise or twQ, and Mary
Ann left a bit of her dress in the door, which closed after her.
They sank down breathless, as soon as they were safe in, her
apartment.
",There said Belle," holding her side and panting, "put that
rag into the fire, the first thing you do," but unfortunately the fire
was out, " put it in your coal hod. It will do as well, poke it
down among the coals, and ring for Roger directly. There is no
place in the room safe from old Filer, and the sooner you 'get it
out of the way the better, and be sure you deny everything if any
questions are asked. It is not likely there will be 'any. Those
boys did not find us out, and everybody is busy. Don't look like
all the woes."
"But suppose somebody finds my skirt," holding it up dolefully,
"what a row there'll be."
" Nonsense I There are fifty just such grey dresses in the
building, and it is'nt likely they'll go around with the bib to fit it
in, as they took Cinderella's slipper. Sit down-at once' and put
in a fresh piece.. There is no reason why you should' be suspect-
ed. I'm quite sure we're not seen. Remember, not a word, or
you will be sorry."
Belle hurried away, and Mary Ann took her piece bag from
her closet and sat down to follow her directions. She found she
could sew a piece quite across the breadth, and make it good
as new, and she had her scissors in her hand preparatory to the,
first snip,-when Miss Filer walked in holding the lost tatter be.
tween her thumb and finger. Seeing Mary Ann's occupation; she
took the gown into her hands without a word, and fitted the edges
together.
"I need not ask who has been out of bounds this evening, but I
must insist upon knowing why you were in the gentlemen's cor-
ridor.
" I was not. I went to the school-room for a book and I got


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.        581

58O'      WIDOW ,GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

frightened atf a;noise I heard, and caught my dress, and was just
going to mend it."
"You look frightened," said, Miss Filer, eyeing her sharply ;
where's the book youwent for? let.me see it. You know it is
forbidden to enter.the school-room after hours without permission."
" I-I-did not .fetch my book," stammered Mary Ann, white
as chalk. "I could'nt help it-.I ain't to blame, I-"  A knock
aththe door, and in good time too, for Mary Ann was beginning
to snivel, and in a fit way to let- out every thing.
"May I come in, Miss, Filer?  I've finished my lessons, and I
know this dear child is behind, it is her normal condition. You
know help never comes amiss to her.".
While Belle was still waiting permission, Roger came up with
his kindlers and brush to make the fire, and after she got ink on
account of her kind heart and helpful impulses ; Miss Filer
began to cross-question the foil, who got twisted up; tighter in
her contradictions every instant, and cast imploring glances at the
Blonde.
"Here be a rag,;mum I" (Roger held up the ink-stained hand-
kerchief.)  "'Twill make-a smell ef you burns it."
" This is -a:handkerchief," said Miss Filer, spreading it out
gingerly  " What does this mean ?"
" I spilled my ink," faltered Mary Ann, under the steely lustre
of.Belle.Brandon's eyes, " and I. wiped it up with that."  -
On: the only white corner there was a. monogram of dainty
lilies and forget-me-nots. Miss Filer screwed her gimlet eyes
into it, turning, it about, up and down, trying to make it out.
"Ch-and this is surely an s.. Whose is this, MissWilliams ?"
MNaryAnn's-teeth ehattered; before she could frame an answer,
Belle spoke. She saw that it would not do to keep silence longer.
"Let me take it, please," holding out her hand. "I'm a fa-
mous:decipherer :of enigmas.. Chandos Goldsmith, ma'am, oft
course, nothing could; beplainer."
"And how came .a young gentleman's handkerchief in your
coal hed?" sad Filer, turningsabout on l~hry AnP-
" I'll answer that Miss Filer," said Belle, laughing. "The
-ahem, is not so black as he is paintedin this case at anyrate. I

spilled my ink, and wiped it up with this unfortunate mouchoir.
I found it in the drawing-room this evening where I suppose that
remarkably careless young person named Chandos dropped it, but
I thought it was mine when I used it, or to speak literally, I seized
the first thing I saw, without thinking much about ownerships."
" But Miss Williams has just told me she spilled her :ink and
wiped it with this. There appears to be a discrepancy."
" Yes, dear child--I heard her." She ran to her foil and kissed
her gushingly. 'Jfeep your mouth shut," she whispered, with
the kiss; and went on aloud. "You must'nt fib even to bring
your friend out of trouble. I thank you, but don't do it. No
Miss Filer, I spilled the ipk, and I gave this thing to her to wash.
She is accustomed to do that sort of work and I am.not. Don't
blame the poor child."
" But this is not all, Miss Brandon. Somebody has been in
the, gentlemen's corridor, and this bit of stuff was found there,
which I am sorry to say exactly fits here," holding upMary Ann's
skirt.
Belle threw a Geraldine glance at the thin teacher, but she
laughed merrily.
"You'll have to confess, Millithyj she only peeped out at the
door, Miss Filer, to see what those stupid boys were at, and drew
her head in directly, and the treacherous dopr had; to spring to on
her dress, and those boys had just a glimpse. Don't punish
her, because after all she did not break bounds ; I was telling her
she'd better speak to you when she came up, but the poor child is
so much in awe of you."
Miss Filer was not by any means clear in her mind as to the
discrepancies, but Belle carried it off so gaily, that she ended
with reading Mary Ann a lecture upon truthfulness, and ordering
her to remain in her room and commit the story of Ananias and
Sapphira, instead of going to her supper, and forbiddin  her to
speak to any one; and then she held the, door open for Belle to
pass out, who instead, linked her arm into the thin one at'her
side, and -waled the teacher off in triumph, 4ay"ing  oid~e,
dear," to the poor prisoner as she shut her in.


WIDOW GOLDSMITHS DAUGHTER. .583

CHAPTER THIRTY-NINTH.
THE SCHOOL ROOM.
To-MORROW    would be the great examination day, when the
prizes wereto be awarded, and the ar't scholarship conferred.
The class-bell had rung, and still Belle Brandon lingered 'in her
room, with her door locked and bolted, working at a drawing.
She was not to compete for the prize in crayon sketching, and yet
with much on her hands, and few moments to spare, she worked
earnestly. After some delicate touches, she held it up in triumph,
a wicked smile on her red lips, and a cruel light glittering in her
steely eyes.
WI think that will do," said she, "a most faithful copy in style
and execution. It would have been much quicker done if that
odious fellow had not a habit of dotting his work, so that it looks.
as if he used a stipple instead of a crayon, though I must give
him the credit of finishing as clear and fine as a copper-plate.
Who says I am not 'a artist ?' only give me. a subject worthyof
my pencil. A little more general frowziness might be effective,
and yet I don't see well how I could have gotten any more in."
She turned the card-board over and lifted the tissue-paper from
the drawing it protected, and studied it.
"I'm as sure as I want to be that there's something connected
with the petrified silence that girl dotes on, which will give my
work keenest sting; I've noticed some covert allusions to. a Swiss
journey, and Alpine costumes, and all that, among the three, and
I feel sure - this picture bears on it. I don't think I ever so
(582)

thoroughly detested three humans in my life ; upon my word, I
hate them so utterly that it is a luxury."
She laid down the card-board and opened the door.
" Mary Ann," called she, softly, "come here directly."
As she got no reply, she came out and went across the corridor
and put her head into thefoil's room.
"Sniveling again! upon my word you are getting to be quite a
household iNiobe; but you may leave off now,-for a while at
least, for I want you."
" What do you want ?" asked Mary Ann, blowing her red nose.
"I'm going down to class now.")
"Not yet, dear ; I have use for your fingers, and don't loiter,
either, because I am going to class likewise. Make haste!"
Mary Ann rose unwillingly and obeyed.
"What is it now? I shall not sew any for you to-day; I've
enough to do for myself to get my dress ready. I sat up till
midnight last night over your petticoat."
"Quite right, my dear ; I am satisfied. What I want now is
a little of your marvelous chirography. There is your model, k
must be exactly the same, line for line, point for point."
"I wish you wouldn't make me write that, Belle; I hate to
touch it. She never hurt me, why should I go to plague her ?
She did my algebra for me yesterday,, when I know she wanted
to be in the Art rooms, for I- stopped her on. the , stairs; but she
sat down on the steps and worked it out, without a word."
" Greater fool she, to trouble herself about you. Youcan't
ever learn algebra, if you study a hundred years. Now sit down
and do your task quickly ; you can write; I never saw , sim-
pleton in my life who could not beat us clever ones at that."
" But I think it is wicked to do this ;; I'd much -rather not."
" Wicked ! well I like that, after your exploits at the fair; why
half the mischief that spread from that post-office came off
your pen."
" Well if it did, it lid not come out of my brains."
"Your brains'! bless me, what an idea, (tapping Mary. Ann's
head rather hard with her knuckles,) empty, my dear ; hollow'as
a gourd-shell."


584 .WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DArGHTER.

'WIDOW GOLDSMITl 'S DAU+ i'rR.    :8

"'Leave my head, alone!" -said the victim, angrily, twitching
away. " I'm-just as the Lord made me, anyway ; Ihaven't made
a devil of my-self."
"Do you mean to say that I have? You flatter me too much;
but come," added Belle, who feared that she might aggravate her
foil too far; "come, it won't takeyou a minute ; it is only a joke,
just a bit of my fun, nothing more, I assure you."
" So you said then. ' If I had known what' use you : would
intake of those hateful letters, and all the grief and misery that
would come of them, I'd-have let you do anything to me before
I'd have touched them; I wish I dare tell it now."
"iNonsense! You had your mother's example ; didn't she in-
dite a wondrous epistle to Mr. Growing ? You'd better banish all
such thoughts from your head, because you'd find yourself in no
end of-a mess. Besides, what I said was true ; those letters were
for my amusement; they answered their, end, and if the fools
would make earnest of a good joke, neither you nor I were to
blame. But that is all done finished now ; go on, please."
She placed the pen in- her victim's fingers, and did ndt leave
her till she had accomplished her end. Then examining carefully
the completed work, she locked it in her writing-desk.
"Go, now; poor tender conscience ! I've done, with you."
After a last look at her face in -the mirror, and finishing
touches of} her hair and apparel, without which she never left her
apartment, (she knew the power 'of her beauty, it was her stock
in trade,) Belle went slowly down stairs in an exalted franie of
mind, to judge by her satisfied face, and the exultant " Gloria"
she hummed in tones which, though suppressed to a murniur, were
so clear and .joyous as showed the absolute control she possessed
over her wonderful voice. As shereached madame's parlor,'that
dignitary looked out.
"Ah, Miss Brandon, I was looking for a messenger, and behold
a Ilebe ! Do me the favor to step up to my dressing-room and
fetch the case of Fabers onrthe desk."
"Avec gradplaisir, madame:" Belle smiled sweetly; she was
a favorite with madame ; showy scholars= always are with teah-

ers who are fond of making what Chandy called "a splurIge,"
with their pupils.  Belle told on the committee, middle-aged men
they were, too, who ought to have much wisdom-eren of mark,
and substance.
The pencils were i'eadily found, but Hebe lingered, for a letter
lay on the desk, whose clean, pointed chirography she knew per-
fectly.  She always made it a point to read open letters, and she
had already perused many in the 'same hand, and' addressed to
Miss Goldsmith, having a monogram in the corner, a head of
Sappho, and the letters 0. G. bound about with a wreathHof pan-
sies. This sheet was plain. Belle tossed her curls and smiled,
when she had secured the contents.
DEAR MOTHER:
-I shall be at home in twenty-four hours after you receive this. Dou't let
my little Chris know it, though, for I.would not miss thewild-deer look in
her glorious brown eyes at sight of me, for a hat-full of gold. You see I
was right, my mother ; love for me was all that was needed. Not a little flaw
now, not a spot on the perfection of her loveliness; I stayed' with your long
entiogh to see that, and I saw that you respected my darling's talents. IEkiiow
you have learned to love her; I :please myself in my lonely office over the
picture she is,.sitting by you,,holding your hand, and, II rejoice that Iecan
give you such a daughter.
My old friend Max will come with me, only just landed, and looking as
German as can be. You.will give him a warm welcome for my sake, (you
are such a precious mother,) but don't tell your young ladies he is a Count,
they are sure -enough 'to go wild over. him anyhow.. :Dear mother, good-
night. I shall kiss you to-morrow.
" Model son. and ardent lover! a most proper person," sneered
Belle, as she folded the sheet and replaced it, precisely, to a hair's
breadth, (she was an adept in these little exploits,-ad usether
eyes,) and ran down stairs.
"Not an hour too soon;" -she thought.  " Iwas afraid myiMary
Ann was about to be troublesome, thosepenitent:fits':of hers
are harrowing, but I've it-all 'secure now, and:itwill be- a;ictess.
Oh'what fun !  The ripe scholar! them:wonderful genius, a;laugh-
ing-stock ! I wouldn't wonder if she left school;FmsickOfkher


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       587.

wisdom; I'mtired to, death of hearing her praises sounded in
class. To, see Prof. Noble -look at her is enough, to give one
-palsy; and this letter is a perfect god-send; I'll keep my eye on
her. Supercilious Mr. -Otho can suffer, I suppose, as well as
meaner miortals, and all Miss Goldsmith's learning won't save her
from tearing her hair with shame and mortification ; and dear
Chandy I hope will relish my improvement on his work. *I de-
sire to be modest, but really ,I am satisfied with its merits."
She had got seated in class before she had finished her medita-
tions, and she was late; but he gave madame's errand as her ex-
cuse,, and so secured her ten, and after finding the page of "Mar-
mion," on which they were drilling, she paid little heed to the
exercise, till a burst of irrepressible laughter recalled her. Not
only the class were convulsed, but all the scholars, who should
have been busy with their lessons, were joining in the merriment.
" Once more," said Miss" Filer, wiping her face, red with the
use of. the'rusty muscles so seldom called into exercise.
Mary, Ann rose. Belle looked at her ; she was uneasy about
her at times ; policy suggested a little petting once in a while,
but overbearing=had thus far got the best of it.  She noted the
dreary expression of her chalky face, but her sing-song voice and
manner were as usual.;
" On tho Earl's cheek the flesh off rag,
O'ercame the ashen hug off-ag,
Thus he broke forth: 'And dast theow then
To baard the douge-lass in his den,
The lion in his hole                  -
And hoppest thow hence unscratched to go,
No by St. Breed of Bothwell, no.'"
The rather uncivil;remarks of the old Highlander, and his em-
phatic peroration, were entirely -lost in the burst of applause
which greeted the fair reader, who sat 'down and mumbled her
lips, quite crest-fallen,
Filer's nose fairly kindled with her mirth, and she was fain to
dismiss her class and retire to bathe that organ, for fear of spon-
taneous combustion.,

. "I did not think you could do it twice, my dear, but you did,
without the least variation," said she to Mary Ann. " I congrat-
ulate you."
Though so hard pressed by their teachers, the pupils still found
time for their usual jokes and fun. As for Chandy, nobody could
press him hard, and le1 sat in the philosophy class, leaning on
Sam's-shoulder, in his usual lazy fashion, but making perfect rec-
itations, whenever Prof. Noble called upon him.- Though he rose
to his feet each time as if the effort was tremendous,"he generally
called up smiles upon his teacher's face by his odd conceits and
whimsical deductions, as original as they were queer.
"Now scholars," said the Professor, "let me have your opinion.
Suppose a bell could be electrically rung in a deserted city, where
there was no living thing, would there be any sound?  What do
you think, Miss Christabel ?"
"I think there could be none, sir," said Chris, smiling. "'He
that hath ears to hear let him hear,' and if there were no ears
there could be no sound; the waves would flow on and expand,
but since sound is the effect upon the ear," &amp;c.
Chris's reply brought on one of those discussions which Prof.
Noble permitted as a means of finding out what his pupils were
made of, and while it was in progress, Zoe saw a little- three-
cornered note alight in her lap.  She opened it and read:
" When I am out sleighing to-night with my Mignone in the shafts, and
one of you by my side, and the moon shines on us, and the merry bells jin-
gle, as over the snow swiftly we go, how dismal will the other one look,
toasting her feet in old Filer's society."
Zoe and Sabrina laughed, and glanced across at Chandy, who,
entirely oblivious of their presence, seemed tremendously absorbed
in Prof. Noble's remarks.
Presently another twisted missive fell softly upon Sabrina's
open book, marking the topic, " Circulinear Motion."  This time
it was:
"When'I am married to one of you, I'll tell my children how you two
used to neglect your lessons, and make no end of blunders, which caused our

.586        WIDOW ° GOLDSMITH'S  ,DAUGBTFE.


588         WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

blood run cold; because you were writing notes to me in class; and the other
will be a fearful old maid with a tabby-cat or a mission."
They Ihanded the two to Bertha, who sat next, and in their own
amusement they failed to notice the dreary smile on her face.
Just then ProTNoble was called away for visitors, and summoned
Filer to his place.
" What is the topic under consideration ?" said she, settling
herself with a brisk rustle, as a bantam hen shakes out her feath-
ers, and laying down her class-book, all ready-for failures.
"Tides, ma'am," said Zoe.
"And the moral of that is," put in Chandy, borrowing from
Alice's Duchess, " that 'filers and tides wait for no man.' "
"Apropos to tides," said Filer, coolly ignoring Chandy and his
remark, "can any one tell me why the waters of the Gulf Stream
are always warn ?"
"I should think it might be the terribly hot weather," suggest-
ed Chandy.     .
"No doubt the atmosphere influences the temperature," replied
Filer; taking Chandy's reply au serieux, " but the chief cause is
motion. There is no motion without producing heat... The Gulf
Stream flows very rapidly, and it is the friction against the banks
which evolves the heat, and raises the temperature of the water."
The class regarded each other in astonishment, and then looked
at Filer ; and Chandy took out a pencil and said, bowing duti-
fully-"
"Allow me to make a note of that, Miss Filer. Wonderful,
isn't it?" proceeded to write down the remarkable fact.
Zoe fabricated a fool's-cap- from her handkerchief, with long-
pointed ears, and held it up to Master Chandy's gaze, who felt
his own auricles and made a wry face, and spread his hands with
a deprecatory gesture._
"And -stick musk roses in thy sleek, smooth head," said Zoe,
half aloud, whisking the ears softly.
"Communicating again, Miss Walsingham?" called out Filer,
delighted to have an opportunity of 'pouncing upon Zoe, who was

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAJGHTER.             89
unpleasant to her, not only because of her blooming youth, but
because she was " always in a giggle," as she declared.
" Yes ma'am," said Zoe, " a little."
" Third offence ! Take your books, &amp;c., and go to the north
recitation room, and remain till sent for."
" Zoe picked up her books without any remonstrance, which,
indeed, would have been wasted'breath, and made great show of
searching for something, peering under. the desks, moving'the
chairs, and lifting all the books, which Filer bore as long as she
could in her aggravated state.
" What are yousearching for?" asked she at length, in a shrill
voice.
" The and so forth, ma'am," replied Zoe modestly.
All the class laughed, and Filer looked furious. "You may
commit fifty lines of Cowper's Task this evening in recreation
hour," said she.
"Wo4't it be a hard task for me to make Cowper's Task my
task, Miss Filer ?"
" You may commit sixty lines, Miss Walsingham; ten more for
impertinence."
Zoe courtesied meekly, and walked toward the door, threw it
open, and as the last. fold of her scarlet dress was disappearing,
she turned about and stood framed in the dark oak like a Gypsy
picture.
"Miss Filer," said she in a beseeching tone, which that gimlet-
eyed lady ought to have suspected, "may I speak to you before
Igo?"
" Speak ! " said Filer.
"Thanks, ma'am; you are very kind. I'm going to forgive
you now, because I know I shan't get out' before sundown, and I
am instructed not to let that hmuinary go down on my wrath, it
would be wicked. I forgive you freely, Miss Filer."  She kissed
her hand and vanished, and poor Filer rubbed her nose and con-
sidered whether it would be wise to call her back; and Chlndy
struck his thumb nails together in infinitesinal applause, which
shie thought best not to see.


590        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

"Hand up your abstra&amp;s,: class. Mr. Goldsmith, I'll take
yours first."
Chandy rose lazily. " Sorry to have to offer it in pencil, Miss
Filer; but I came in late from driving last night, and some fiend
or fairy had overset my ink bottle in my absence, and I was re-
duced to, plubago-better than lumbago, but not nice." He
happened to look at Mary Ann Williams, and thought what an
ugly brick color she could be sometimes. Belle glanced at her
and then at Miss Filer, who pricked up her ears at the mention
of ink, and privately made up her mind to follow the clue and
ferret out the whole.
After school, Belle Brandon came purring about Chris with all
her claws in velvet. She found her deep in Virgil.
"Chris, Mignone, (she had taken to calling her Mignone since
she learned that it was the name of Chandy's mare,) don't you
think we had better take a good practice at our duet?  The try.
ing hour approaches, and our Holy Mother's footsteps don't move
just in time."
Chris paused, and looked absently up, with her forefinger on
the open page of her Lexicon, down whose columns she was
eagerly chasing a hidden verb. " I'm busy now," she replied
shortly.
"N'importe. I won't interrupt you then ; but as I've done my
lessons I'm going ,to be a good Christian, and lay over your,
bureau before dreary Filer pounces on you. Shall I, Mignone ?"
"Do anything you like, so you don't bother ene," said Chris,
drawing her brows together ; "though I'd like to have my room
to myself, I know'its of no use to say so, unless I get up and
put you out."
" They say I am a wilful little puss," laughed Belle ; and hum-
ming ",Call me pet names," she opened the top drawer. It was
inits most chaotic state, for Chris had stirred it up before dinner
in the vain hope to discover a. box of pens which had cut loose
from her writing desk and withdrawn to parts unknown ; and
Belle took out all the articles and folded and. replaced them..

When it was 'all complete, she still .was not satisfied with her
labor of love, and proceeded to the next. In the corner she
found the box of cinnamon wood, in which lay perdue the old
lace Deborah had caressed on her hard hand before bestowing it.
"Eh biern," murmured the benevolent worker, "Je presque fni;"
and huddling back the articles, her labor of love was finished.
" Chris, dear,: may I take this?"
Chris turned an angry, perplexed face toward her. " Take
anything ! only leave me to myself.",
" Thank you,",purred Belle, and gliding out of the door, she
muttered, " bookish idiot ! what should keep me when I've found
what I want." In the passage she met Mary Ann, who shrank
away from her and would have gone past without speaking, though
she watched Belle's beautiful face as if she had sold her soul to her.
" Come to my room to-morrow early," said the blonde care-
lessly ; "I have a plan, and shall need your help."
"I wish you would leave me out of your plans; my life -is a
torment to me. I mean to write to father and ask to go :home."'
" Don't take the trouble, dear, because. if you do, I shall feel it
my duty to indite an epistle to your lady mother, lauding your
rapid development and the absolute necessity there is for you to
remain, and speak of sweet Mr. Brown and his love for you."
As she finished her sentence, she was astonished, to see Mary
Ann's chalky face kindle into a deep blush, and her eyes fill with
tears; and she thought, is it possible that this girl is capable of
love !
"Did Cymbalinus Adolphus confess his passion, dear?  Does
he know how fondly you adore him ?"
"Let me go, Belle," exclaimed Mary Ann, pushing past.-
" You know very well he don't care nothing about me." She
burst into tears, and went sobbing away.
Belle looked after her an instant, and floated smiling on. As
she entered the school-room, she heard little Joe Dimmock call
out to the half-a-dozen scholars left in the great school-room-
" Look a-here, fellows !" pointing to  the fresh bunch of moss
rose, buds, backed by its one geranium  leaf, which exquisite

WIDOW, GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.     '591


WiDO. GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER. WH93

Chandysported at' his button-hole, "look a-here.! Somebody's
green-house has blown over, and old Goldsmith has been helping
himself to the spoils."
Chandy threw a quick glance at Dolores Zambrano, who pout.
ed her full lips and petulantly flirted the fan, without which. she
never felt at ease: and he stopped the irrepressible little Wag in his
outpouring of laughter and impudence ; seizing him'by the rcoat-
ollar¢and holding him out of the window, while-Sam Slaughton
shied at his defenceless curls many snowballs. The youngster
resigned himself to his fate, dodged the missiles at his best, and
amused his leisure between the shots with throwing kisses to a
. couple of'girls who were passing in jackets and red riding-hoods
on their way to the billiard-room, and who stopped to laugh at
him.-
"Were they your flowers, Dolores?" asked Belle.
The Spanish girl came up and put her arms around her friend's
waist s soon as she saw ,her.
"Yes. Is he not wicked ? the cruel little wretch !  Have
you the permission to go with us-yet ?"
"Not yet, dear," replied Belle, lifting the golden crucifix which
Dolores wore at the end of her jet rosary,-and kissing it, an act
which ,always delighted the ardent Catholic, who hoped to get a
con vert, and implored the Virgin to that end daily, and said no
end of "Paters and Gracias" in her behalf. The truth was,
Belle-had not decided where it would best suit her interest to be-
stow herself after Christmas, and did not intend to commit her-
self at present.
"I wish he could be- with us, too," whispered -Dolores,pointing
to Chaidp. "I shill beg of Henrique to ask him."
"Heis going'abroiad, you knoe."
"But I do not wish himto to," answered Dolores, Wilfully.
" He-tiust stay."   -
Belle looked at the flashin  eyes seeking hers, and then over
at Chandy,- and thought--but she did not tell - her thought-and
- the bell sininohed them all to supper. After that was over, she
resented herself againmat Chris' door.  -     :-

"Madane's compliments, and our- division are to study:in the
-library this evening. I think the old -lady meditates a :lecture.
Come, 1lignone, wake up ; the bell is ringing, and you will get a
cypher. ' Old Filer is rasping to-day."
Without pausing , to think of the very unusual interest Belle
was evincing in her welfare, Chris rose hastily, gathered up -her
books, drew her old grey shawl around her shoulders,'and ran- *
swiftly down the stairs, hating to lose a moment- The apartment
was large and handsome. A carpet of green oak leaves, wreath-
ed on a'white ground, covered the floor ; book-cases between the
four windows, on whose panels were carved .pens, gravers ink-
stands, ' &amp;c., curiously grouped. A library table stood in the cen-
ter,; comfortable chairs about it, already filled with welldressed,
blooming girls ; a cheerful wood fire on the hearth; and in the
four corners four little desks, each for a single student. A cosier
or more completely adapted room for study could not be wished
for. Sabrina moved to make room for Chris at the center table,
but she dashed past her and dropped into one of the corner chairs,
And opening her books, commenced without a lost moment where
she left off, and was immediately oblivious of everything. Some
of her pleasantest -evenings with Otho had been passed in this
room. -The books they had read together were shut up behind
those carved doors. The chess-men : they had used- when he
taught her "Knight's pawn, checkmate in four moves," stood in
battle array ; -the-- belligerent horsemen, mitered bishops,'and
strong castles-all on the curiously inlaid table, bearing Otho'sname
in mosaic and gold on the margin. ' Thee wreath of scarlet, maple
leaves'she had woven for his hat the night she went up to Bear's
Den-and he had been so kind about: "Elizabetta," though yhe
despised Rossini-still hung on the, wall where he had fastened
it with pins drawn from a little, toy of a cushion she.-made him
out of the debris of the needle-book leather, and sold. him ats the
grandiFair. His best meerschaum was qn the mantel ;-hisspicture
hung above it-a boy - picture4dark and earnest.- -Some:of these
things ought: to -have spoken to her-of him  to pave told her he
was coming-but he was not in all her thoughts., -Her faculties

WIDOW" Cx tL DSMITH, S: ' DAUGIITEU.


594        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

were concentrated upon Virgil's farm, for she was reading his first
Bucolic.; Oh, Chris, dear !-don't you know there are breakers
ahead-just before you-and you have shipped your oars and are
drifting-right among them!
Belle took the opposite chair to Chris, whom she had followed
with the same sort of interest which possessed that handsome knit.
* ter, who watched her victims to the guillotine. She deemed in no
hurry to'.take up her lesson, but occupied herself in scanning the
assembled pupils, beautiful girls, many of them, perfectly dressed,
all; at aside table sat half a dozen Cubans, Henrique Zambrano
among them, who sprang up and bowed on her entrance, and a
couple, of New Yorkers, and Sam Slaughton and Chandy, all
studying and enjoying themselves. Belle glanced in the mirror
at her own toilette, a pale blue empress cloth, with satin trimmings;
the .square - pompadour body showing her white throat and
swelling bust, scarcely hidden beneath its lace shelter, her blonde
curls floating softly over her shoulders. A smile parted her lips,
a curious smile, such as the handsome Knitter threw up at the
young girls in the cart, as her, eyes.rested upon the figure in the
corner, bent over her books, her hair knotted in a frizzled unsight-
ly mass, buttons off, trimmings hanging, elbows out, her col-
lar slipped under her left ear as though she were about to be hung
by it, and the front breadth of her dress, soiled, stained and spot-
ted with ink. There was a fatality about the poor child's ink bot-
ties. '1, was as if they'were possessed. They were always up-
setting and breaking and scattering their contents over their fated
owner and all her belongings. The black silk apron she had
worn all day to cover the :last deluge, had burst its belt with an
unlucky sneeze, slipped' off 'unconscious, and was now lying per-
due, behind the door of her apartment.
Madame, for r'easons-of her own, had lapsed from her severity
into perfect disregard of Chris, and her habits.  Perhaps she
considered her case hopeless, and that was not usual with her
either, for she was noted for her power over her pupils. 'Belle
had bewailed the " darling child, so careless," in her presence often
'with swimming eyes, and had been much commended by madame

for her efforts to reform the culprit and the excellent tender feel-
ing she manifested towards her. She being herself so free from
faults, so exact ; for .Belle had, as she prophesied, got madame to
" tell the clock to any business she said befitted the hour."  "I am
afraid, my dear," she had said at the close of one of those talks, "I
am afraid you are right, Miss Goldsmith is incurable, a model
scholar, a magnificent intellect, but so-sadly wanting in feminine
qualities ;" and she gave her no more, lectures, but she did not
know how much of her settled dislike was attributable to Miss
Belle's artful suggestions, quick witted comments, and sly holding
her up to ridicule.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      95.

0


WIDOW -,GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       597,

CHAPTER FORTIETH.
OTHO TIAS COME.
The library door swung open and madame entered apparelled as
for a banquet. Throwing a quick comprehensive glance at the
assembled pupils, she turned her eyes upon the bronze clock on
the mantel, and compared her watch. There was a restless bus-
tle in her movements, quite out of keeping with her usual stately
dignity. She fussed up to Bertha and pulled her collar and neck-
tie, and passed her hand over her smooth braids, then turned to
Chris with a glance, half pitiful, half impatient. She was fresh
from aperusal of her son's epistle, and she sighed. " Such a
spectacle, such a contrast to the others, and such a bitter mortify-
ing disappointment," and her eyes rested upon her favorite's lovely
head bent over her book, and upon her graceful attitude, harmoni-
ous coloring and she sighed again. "She would be an ornament to'
any household," and her face hardened. "This must cure him of
his mad folly, it must ! it shall. I will not have her for a daughter,
and yet she is true and pure, and modest and wise. Is it not
cruel,the exposure before all these, how will he bear it ? I am only
carrying out his desires ; he requested me to keep his com-
ing a secret, but oh, how different to what he expects! Can it
be that I am spoiling my boy's life? will he ever love again? he is
so steadfast ; suppose he should go away and leave me 'and never
return. It is not too late to warn her. I'll send her away now
before he comes.' She made a step forward, with her hand ex-
tended, thinking to place it upon Chris' shoulder. It was too,
late, foi even then, the door opened again, and Otho entered, and
(596)   ,

walked up to her with his firm proud step, anzi4 took her hand in
his loving clasp, put it to his lips, and she heard his dear voice
calling her "mother." All in the room were aware of his pres-
ence before Chris knew it., When his voice fell on her absorbed
ear, she started as if waking from a dream, and a flood of scarlet
flamed up in her.cheeks; then ais the other speakers talked on
and he spoke no more, she sighed and dropped her face again over
her Virgil. Belle went up and touched her.
"Look, Miss Goldsmith, who has come."
Just at this instant, Otho spoke again. " This is my 'friend
Max, my otherr,' and my sister, .Bertha, this is the dear Max
you know of," and Chris sprang to her feet, the glad light in her
eyes, the radiant joy beaming all over her face.
" Poor old Chris," whispered Belle in her ear,. " what a toilette
for a lover, and the queen mother is looking, 'off with her head '
at you."
Chris threw a startled look at Belle and then cast her eyes
down her soiled raiment; and the soul fled from ,them,;leaving
her face like sculptured marble. When Otho spoke to her. she
forced herself to look at him, but her fingers-refused the cold greet-
ing which scarcely touched them, and her heart stopped beating
beneath his stern displeasure, which would have been disgust but
for his knightly. courtesy. He did not present his. friend to her,
but linking his arm within his own he passed around the circle
and went through the needful speeches with a haughty curl on his
lip, and left him among the Cubans, with whom he commenced
a conversation in Spanish.
"You are translated now, Max, as near heaven as your friends
wish you to be, and I shall leave you while I go and get the wel-
come my father has for me," He offered his arm to his mother,
whose face was troubled and stern, and they walked away with-
out another word, without a look at the shrinking girl in the cor-
ner, who bent her eyes to the ground, and bowed herself a hope-
less culprit. The young ladies clustered together and began in
defiance of all rule, to talk. They drew away from Chris, all
but Sabrina, who rose to approach her, then changed her mind and


~ WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

got leave to go out of the room. Chrisheardthem whisper, and
felt their wondering contemptuous looks. She owned that she de-
served it all, but felt her punishment \almost greater than she
could bear. The young Cubans signified a desire to withdraw,
and did so, taking Max with them, and Chandy and Samjoined
them. The study hour was not finished, and Miss Filer's bell
summoned the girls to their tasks, and' silence fell again upon
them. Chris knew that all was over, and with a dead numbness
about her heart, she bent her eyes upon the page, but the words
blurred, and ran together, and she sadt only Otho's proud, angry
face, and remembered that hehad come and gone, and she was
alone. The weary time lapsed slowly, but tlhe last second ticked
off at length, and she was at liberty to hide her shame and sorrow,
in her own room. She threw down her books and locked her door,
and sat down to think. She chose her place before her mirror, and
forced her eyes to examine the disheveled figure, the tangled hair,
pushed off her forehead in wild confusion, the tatters, the ink-
stains: she studied them all, in bitter contempt, and called herself
a liar.
"You have no regard for your promise, Christabel Goldsmith,"
said she, rising and pushing away her chair. "You know how
much he desired what he asked you to do for him, and you forgot
it as soon as he was out of your sight. You deserve all that is
before you; miserable girl, now go to bed, and to sleep if you
can.

CHAPTER. FORTY-FIRST.
THE PICTURE.
When Chris opened her eyes to the grey light of the morning,
a heavy sense of desolation, a pressure of evil sat on her breast.
She passed her hands over her throbbing temples,.and wondered if
she were ill. Then the flood-gates of memory opened and dashed
over her consciousness the. misery of her condition. The look she-
had seen in Otho's eyes as he turned his. back upon her made her
cover her own in    despair ; (who can bear contempt and an-
ger in the face one loves best,) and she buried her head beneath
the bed clothes, and wished she might lie there, hidden forever.
Her cheeks burned as she listened to the fancied comments upon
the scene ; how she had been talked up and pitied and ridiculed,
and in startling clearness she saw Belle as she had looked down
upon her, and roused her with her exclamation,," Poor old Chris."
The gleam of triumph in her eyes, the white little teeth, the
creamy flesh, the lovely neck in dress of pompadour cut. She
even seemed to feel the light touch upon her shoulder which-always
made her chilly, and she began to wonder why she must suffer so.
She had hurt nobody-broken no divine law. There she paused,
she had acted a lie, every day witnessed against her;'how she
had wickedly; foolishly, disregarded her promise, and disgraced
her girlhood in tlge eyes of all around her. The necessity for
immediate action dawned through her rayless darkness. She had
got to face them all. She had got to meet Otho, to-day, to-mor-
row, as many days as he should choose to try her with his pres-
(599)

0t

598


600        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

ence. He would speak to her, and she must frame fitting reply.
Madame would look at her, and would rejoice to have her son
back again ; and-what after that?  She pushed back all such
thought and -sprang up, and bent her soul to get through the
present at her best. Since she had neglected herself, and sold
her lover for scholarship, that should shine brilliant in all eyes
which had witnessed her disgrace. She dreaded the sympathy
and kind looks her few friends would be ready to give her, and be-
gan to study how she could bear herself so as to repress all such
expressions, She had to join her voice with Belle's 4hi a duet, and
she clenched her hands and set her teeth at the thought of the
gorgeous beauty which would contrast- with the pale - face and
hollow eyes set in deep circles'of, purple, which her mirror showed
her: -Shedrew her=bowl:full of freezing water andplunged her
fae into it, and was glad to feel the blood rush up :into her cheeks,
but it=was only for an instant; the= scarlet glow vanished, and the
set stbny 'look was there still. She studied her face with a new
interest, and turned away after a critical examination with a hope-,
less dreary'smhile. -Then, she- opened her armoire and sought
among'hei- dresses for a suitable one for the days' trial, and as she
cast them aside one by one, the buzzing talk over their toilettes,
she had heard at table, in. the halls-everywhere--of ribbons,
sashes, gaiters, combs, and such gauds, which had interested her
as mnch as the singing of the crickets and no mores came to her,
mind, and she wondered why she was not like other girls; and she
awakened to the- disordered condition of her wardrobe; torn,
frayed,.soiled, untidy everything ! and she remembered that for
weeks she had not given a thought to the garments she was toss-
ing over, and a blank dread of Filer's "deportment book " passed
upon:her, and all the scholars and the assembled guests would hear
the standings. Her eye lighted upon the pansy robe, in-which
she had been so happy,' and with sudden anger she pounced upon
it and, threw it out. It floated softly from her rude:touch and lay'
A vapory-cloud upon the floor. There was a black merino, it was,
dyed and turned from one of her mother's, and had a sad three
cornered rent; a drab one, that was covered with ink; .calicoes,

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S 'DAUG-HTER.           .601
alpacas, ginghams, all spoiled ; even her . Sunday. suit of .bottle
green was shabby, worn at the wrists and elbows. Nothing to
wear ! she was about to give over in despair, when she fished up
Sabrina's grey poplin, wrapped in a.towel and pinned close, lying
on the bottom of the armoire. She .examined .it critically. It
was a stranger to her eyes, (though the whitebundle had lain
there since her first unpacking,). and perfect in every part. She
shook it out and dressed herself carefully, and sat down; but she
was all the while studying the part she.had to act,-fixing up little
speeches for emergencies, and the stony, dreary look never left
her face.
. knock at the door. She went slowly and opened 'it,and
looked full in Belle Brandon's dimpled face.
"Come to the music hall and practice, mignone," said she, push-
ing her head into the room. A I see you are all dressed;t We've
not a momentsto loose. You've been borrowing a, dress of some-
body, I do believe., What a pityyou had'nt; worn it last night.
Such a guy as you were !" Then she espied the .pansy robe, and
tried to squeezefher plumpness past the unpromisinglooking, girl
who kept the knob in her fingers. "That lovely, dress !. Will
you wear it this evening ?"
" This evening !".repeated Chris, " where and why ?"
"This evening !" said Belle, mimicking her voice and manner.
"Why to the party of course ! You oddity,'to pretend to forget
what absorbs us all. .Perhaps you won't go, of course you will
not if madame will excuse you."
"Ab yes; the party !" said Chris, flushing with sudden resolve..
"I shall certainly go."
" And wear that dress ?"
" No, I shall not 1"  She tqok her hand off the knob and suf-
fered Belle to pass her.
" Then I will.try it on. If it suits me, I'll have it. It is as
fresh as new."
"I meant it for the rag man, Miss-Brandon."  Chris pushed it
out of the way withhersfoot.' "If you wear it, you had better
26


602           WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
finish it with the gauntlets you took from me that horseback
party.".
" Thank you," answered Belle, unmoved in her 'examination
of the dress. ."-Idon't wonder that.you go back to that day with
pleasure. , it was quite an era in your life.' Just wait till I de-
posit my fteasure in my room and I'll be 'all ready for'our 'Holy
Mother. But Mignone, whether of us twain do you suppose will
become this dress most in Mr. Groenveldt's 'eyes?  Just look in
there'! (pulling 'Chris up before the mirror.) You shall let me
have a waltz with him, his'dancing is the poetry of motion.  Wait
for me. "
Chris fairly stameped as Belle floated away, bother anger had
the good effect to break up the hardness in her face. She waited,
riot because Belle asked her, but because she forgot to' go, and
that young beat soon .returned breathless, "'come, come, 'tis
,past :seven 'already."  They entered the chilly hall, rid'Chris sat
do'9n with a shiver, and began 'slowly tolhunt the music from the
pile on the piano. "You must sing this duet aid leave *ine," said
she. " I've my symphonies to.get up, and shall waste no time."
As she raised her head 'to place the sheet upon the rack, a sight
met her eyes which made her dizzy. It seemed too as if the rack
had been 'empty when she sat down, and Belle Brandon was stand-,
ing. 'behind her ready  to' take up her part. A square piece of
cardboard-on it a clear sketch of her face 'and figure, as she
had 'been the previous evening and so many evenings before; the
tatters, the neglect, the frizzy hair, and surrounded by a 'chaos 'of
books sand' papers, and exaggerated into a ludicrous caricature--
beneath was written, " The Slattern at Home."  She  fastened
her eyes upon the words, and though her very 'heart wept, there
were no 'tears.'
" Oh Chandos !"  It was all she -said, but Belle shrank away
from her an instant, and studied her at a'distance.
She turned the paper over in her fingers, and started 'and
smiled. It. was the spirited picture of her, which her handsome
-brothe had made that golden time when he 'had.showed her
curls to Otho, and praised her beauty. She replaced it upon
the rack, with a quiet hand, and turned upon Belle almost fiercely.

WtDOWe Gotbsm'I' DAUXGETER.'         608
' Come," .said she, "why don't you begin, and finish, and 'leave
-me alone ?"
":am waiting, Mignone, for a sight of the sketch you hAve
put so carefully beyond niy reach. Will you not indulge me with
a look,? I love pictures."
",Indulge you! Not while :'min my senses. If you do not
wish to sing your part, go away at once, and don't bother me all
ithe morning."
Belle smiled, 'and took her place by the piano, and pinched the
leaf, preparatory to :turning over. . But if she .watched f r any
shrinking or false notes, she watched in vain, for Chris not only
kept her up to her part, but sang her own steadily to the  end,
every 'tone true and pure as a bird's.
"' There. ="said she, 'shortly,'closing the sheet, and .tossing i
aside, "now go!"
Belle obeyed, though she stopped at the door Ito feast herself
with one more look; but the lofty composure and fixed resolution
which had settled down upon 'Chris's face spoiled half her' tri-
umph.
Alone, the Spoor girl played on, steadying her soul with the
heavenly -harmonies. Desolation, grief, despair, meltedd into a
dirge over buried hopes, each note a prayer for help.
Otho, with troubled countenance, passed the door. 'lie knew
the touch  well, he had helped .to former it,: and he paused to
listen as one stops by the coffin of' a dead friend. It was a pity
to see how the pride had died out of his dark =face ; how his head
dropped, his eyes sought the ground.  His faith in himself was
shaken since his error in judgment was so, palpable. Such as he
resent bitterly their mistakes, and are apt to visit them severely
upon those who by their weakness or short-comings' have caused
them. Still he placed his hand upon the knob, with a half pur-
pose to enter, whether to upbraid Chris, or take her 'to his heart,
he scarcely knew. The longing to see- her, to hear. her voice,
very -nearly overcame every other feeling, but it passed;he with-
drew his touch, as if 'angry with himself, and walked on and en.
tered his 'mother's pair, where his friend' Max was waiting for

"


: 604        - WIDOW  GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
him, as grandly quiet and as tenderly polite to madame as though
he was at rest ; and he had reason to bless his natural reticence
which:had hindered any mention of Chris or his love even to this
dearest friend.
.Before he had been gone many moments, the hall door opened
softly, and the dear old Professor ,came to the young player's
side.
"What is it, Fraulein ?" asked he, taking both her hands, and
looking into her face. "You make my heartache with your mu-
sic; .it is as though you had no longer any hope."y
She turned her stony ,face toward him, her tearless, glittering
eyes.
'No hope," said she, "it is finished; there is nothing more to
besaid or done, about it. . I do not deserve that you.should trouble
yourself any further for me ; men do not like to be -seen in the
company of ax slattern-that is the word, 'slattern.' She spoke
very quietly, as if ,she: weretalking of an indifferent person. "I
am marked, spotted from them all; they shrug their shoulders
and roll up their eyes at me; I have to longer any part with
them, so they draw away from me, they do not wish to touch me.
Don't you stop here,' my master, they will come and find you, and
then you will be ashamed. I am best alone."
She withdrew her gaze from him, and dropped her eyes upon
the keys, and tried. to pull her hands from his, as if she would
go on playing. .
He was uneasy, her stillness was so unnatural; and he took her
forcibly to his arms, and laid her head upon his breast, his fatherly
heart full of heavenly pity.
! -No, no, child, you are not well alone, you are well with me;
.daughter, tell me, tell me !"-
He felt her throbbing temples and bounding pulse, and longed-
to see tears in the dry eyes fixed on his in such hopeless suffering.
"My child," said L he, shaking her passive shoulder gently, "do
speak! what is it ?  Has somebody-has Otho, for instance-has
he said an unkind thing? has he done you a 'wrong ?'
"Oh no," she replied, with a .dash of bitterness, " oh, no, he

WIDOW GOLDSMITHS 'DAUGHTER         605

can do no wrong ; he has spoken nothing unkind, far from it. I'
alone am to blame."
Soothingly, tenderly, the kind of -man waited till she was
ready for his. sympathy, and with a tact and knowledge of
woman's nature which none would have expected from the ab-
sorbed scholar, he brought her to tell him her story, and'to finish
it in tears upon his breast.
"And Chandy, too," sobbed she, pointing to the sketch; "I
think that hurts me most of all. My dear thoughtless brother !
he has given me a blow -I cannot get over ; but I was to blame;
I must have mortified him dreadfully ; he meant to give me- a
lesson. I've got it, but oh ! it is hard, is it not?"
" Cruel, contemptible, vicked poy !" said the Professor, vehe-
mently, dashing off his glasses, and brandishing them up and
down. " He .loves fun ; he makes vara goot}picture"; he made
von of mine feedle and me togeder ; I did not care; I laugh very
mooch when he show it me. But this- is not fun for mny little, girl,
.this is von naughty crime. I cannot belief he do it, he is such a
good fine fellow: Are you sure 'tis his ?"
"Quite sure, sir ; there, is his own writing, and here on this
side is a sketch he made of me at home when-when-when we
were happy."  She dropped her head and sobbed afresh.
j' He shall be excommunicate ! He shall be expulse ! He
shall-"
Chris stopped the denunciations of her friend, placing 'her hands
upon his mouth.
"No sir," said she, drying her tears, "you shall promise me
not to say a word to'him or any one ;.«let everything drop."
She had much trouble to bring him to promise, and he pur-
posely died hard, because it was' -good for her to beg. When it
was settled, he said, hesitatingly:
" But Fraulein, I only just ask, you know, but is it true? are
you what women despise so much, ' vone slattern ?' women Are so
merciless to each other. I haven't seen it. You always look lovely
to me. You study, and go snailing, and catch beetles ; yott paint,


606,          wIDoWGOLSMtTH'S YA.UGHTER.
and play de sonata more petter ash any voman I know. I can-
not make it come true-that slattern!"
"4I am afraid I am it,'' replied Chris, smiling dreatily; "or at
least , was yesterday. I did not mean to, indeed and indeed I
did not, but somehow I always forget, and I think my things get
.out of place easier than other people's  They won't stay pinned,
and they won't stay buttoned, and they drop off and slip about.
Oh dear, I'm afraid there's a screw wanting;, I'm going to. turn
over a new leaf, new; but what if I do? what if I make myself
ever-so perfect? I cannot get back my happiness again ; that is
all over."
" Do not say that, Fraulein ; I cannot think the good God will
suffer .you to be unhappy." 'These are your trials; -you, have in
your rich nature all resources for enjoyment." Happiness comes
from within; happiness is knowledge, and the getting of. mooch
wisdom.. You hafknowledge, you enjoy its pursuit, and there-
fore you should be happy.  prize you like mine own child; I
see no fault in you; I feel sure that I shall haf you to my-
self for a whole year at least. I had yon in mind when I offered
the scholarship.; though. I am mooch absorbed, I am quick to un-
derstand what concerns those I love. I know that you will not
be permitted-to remain here another year at Madame Goldsmith's
expense,: especially now that Sir John will take leave of us;
and you are too proud to be a charity pupil, even if madame had
some charity, (smiling,),so I made my Iketle plan, my stratagem;
selfish-because I cannot spare my dear pupil, and I will haf you
to sit close by me and learn, all the days, and fill your soul with
grand thoughts, feed it, por hungry soul, with goot knowledge.
You shall train your beetle hand to work among the oils, and
handle the brusbes, and your fingers to stop the frets ofthat old
Spanish guitar you liked so mooch in any studio, and my harp,
and my violin." (Chris"shrank away and shook her head.) "Ah,
Fraulein, how happy we shall be, like two goot fellows. As fo.
the dresses, let, me consider, so, so."
Ue wiped4his glasses and, exa miied her carefully, with so anx-
1ous a countenance that he made her smile.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH's DAUGHTER.

607

"I hope there is not hg aniss to-day, master, because thisis
a careful day, a day over the leaf. I was ever s long putting
on my things this morning; long enough to read a great many
pages.'
6' How would it be," he pyt his finger to, his lip and whispered,
"so, s9, if I were to tweep watch all the while over your toilettes,
and speak rough, and frown thus, when you laek something; put
on my glasses and, review you each norming  Yogr curls, pretty
shining curls they are, with the sheep, of the ripened chestnut,"Qay-
ing his hand fondly upon them,) " and yoirg garments, ah, tb-ose gar-
nantsare vara nooch trouble to mine Fraulein; you sufferimooch
the curse of the wicked, hungry mother, de apple eater.; but-your
sweet face is clearly cut and .delicte ;, the beautiful Sgppho her-
self has not a more perfect profile. Your blood comes' and_ goes
in your round cheek with every pulse-beat; your eyes speak
your soul's biddig, and they utter no guile. You cannot, be
far wrong, I'm sure ; but we must be particular, ys, see we are
watched."
Chris laughed softly at the idea of his watching her-he, 'who
was so every day tenderly cared for by his loving, dutiful daugh-
ter, even to the tie of his black cravat, and whose pockets were
systematically picked. of his handkerchiefs, lest he should carry
his whole stock there at once.
".I think I shall be hereafter always sufficient to myself," she
said firmly. "If I feel danger I will call go mind some friendly
glances I got of late, and I will study at my brother's picture of
the 'slattern."'
The dear old Professor looked wistfully at her kindling face,
which had but now been lighted by pretty archness, and it pained
him.
"Come, Fraulein," said he,' "let us sing togeder; we've got
haf an hour yet before the breakfast. Here is a vary delicete
trifle."
I cannot sing. my master;" she put up her hand to her
throat. " There is a hard pain here which binds it like a cord."
"Is it'so, poor child ?  Then you shall play for me an accom-

4


608        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S- DAUGHTER.

pany."  He took down his violin and drew up the strings. "The
symphony in G, Fraulien."
They played steadily on, till her spirit was in tune for the ar-
duous duties of theft day, the sharp trials she had to pass. When
he was .satisfied that it was the best which could be done, he
smiled down at her, holding her-face between his two hands.
"You are strong and quiet now, Fraulein."
The tears sprang to her eyes; the sweet rich voice, the pro-
tecting kindness of the action, were so like the bliss she had
basked in, and'from which her folly had shut her out.
" I think we will breakfast alone, we two," said he ; " we must
go and beg Roger to smuggle us some coffee and kates. Ah, 'tis
lucky Miss Filer's occupation is not, to-day, or we might get some
failures."
Chris never guessed that the dear old Professor had purposely
kept her back to shield her from 'the public breakfast, with its
prying eyes and whispered comments.

CHAPTER FORTY-SECOND.
B-ELLE AND MARY ANN HAVE IT OUT.
WHILE Chris was pouring out her sorrows upon the breast of
the kind old friend, hushing her sobs and getting strength for her
resolves; sympathy and shrewd advice, which any other than she
would have wondered to receive from so guileless, unworldly a
scholar, such as a wise, tender mother might have bestowed, and
in such soothing accents as fell in balm upon her bruised spirit,
and which deepened the almost filial love she already felt for him
--Miss Belle, having breakfasted hastily, had summoned her
foil to her apartment. She came unwillingly, and :with loitering
steps and lowering face.
Miss Brandon's task was absorbing and her moments few ; only
one day before the great party, and it may be that she displayed
more tartness and impatience than was politic, and pointed her
sneers and flings with too sharp a sting. .She must have done so,
for Mary Ann's face grew more sullen' every moment,, and her
pale eyes faded out, and her face got chalkier, a sure sign she
was getting into a rage, and would be ready to use her claws if
too hard pushed, as a cat will scratch and bite if cornered.
Belle was fitting on the pansy robe ; she was touchy and cap-
tious because she had to wear it, fresh and lovely as it was. She
had tried to persuade her aunt to send her a rose-colored silk, and
failing, had written to her uncle, but had got in return only a.
sharp reprimand for her extravagance.
"Oh dear, what a bean-pole that girl is !" said she, finding the
,body all too narrow for her superb proportions. "No' breadth of
shoulders at all !"
(609).


610        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

She held her breath and pinched her sides, while Mary Ann
struggled with the bottom hook.
"There," said she, drawing in the air carefully, after it was
conquered, "I look as if I was screwed into a vice, and as for
dancing, ma foil" You must pink me some violet' silk ruches
for a heading to the wreath; this pattern is rather marked, but I
think I can metamorphose it into something 'rich and strange,' as
that odious Chandy says. I know he crams Shakspeare on pur-
pose ; he and Dictionary are a precious pair. I remember just
how she looked in this dress, as cool and indifferent as possible at
me; but :c'est une chose inouie, the smile she got up the moment
Gravity cane in sight-I could have slapped her!"
" I remember too. She's as beautiful as she is good, and I
wish I was like 'her."
Belle turned in astonishment, and opened her steely eyes upon
th  foil with superb contempt. This was new utterance, in a
new tone, and must be squelched.
" Take the scissors," said she, " and trim this body, if you have
finished your virtuous remarks. What a pity papa the deacon is
not-present! How they would rejoice his pious heart ; he would
cheat his next customer with double relish. Suppose we make
up a special anxious seat, and send for that De-sweet lips, who
dotes on the young sisters, and  pokes his holy nose under their
hats, to comfort you. Oh, the piety and the meanness I have seen
in your charming home. It is enough to sicken one of the name
of religion forever."
Pa and ma wasvery good -to you, I'm sure ; and you are no
kin of ours neither, if it comes to that."
":Ha, ha! how very funny! Quite clever, upon my word.-
Kin to you! .that is a good joke! No, my Mary Ann, I rejoice
to, be certain that no drop of your thin blood defiles my veins. My
ancestors were gentlefolks. The Brandons wore a hawk for a'
crest when they went to fight for the Holy Sepulchre, though I
must own that it was very' silly of them to spill their blood and
waste their money in' such a way. Still, they were better than
'to ancestors. Your maternal grandfather boiled soap, and yotr

grandmother dipped candies. Such is life. I have found you
useful, and now please continue to be it by cutting delicately."
" Where do you want me .to: cut ? ~ I don't know nothing about
it, I'm sure."
" Trim these shoulders. That.dowdy called this a low neck, I
believe, but: she is as lean as a magpie. Be careful; don't snatch
from me! be respectful if ,youplease; remember I've a little au-
tograph of yours safe up in my desk. I can ,spring it on you
any time, and get you sent home in disgrace, and then won't your
mother murder you?"
Mary Ann took the scissors and began to snip. - Her under lip
dropped, and her eyes looked threatening.
" Take care!" screamed Belle. " You are gouging that out of
all shape, and you are doing it on purpose!"
She dashed away the hand which held the scissors, and the
points.entered her plump arm, inflicting a sharp wound and caus-
ing the blood to spurt .out over the creamy flesh, and trickle
down, a ruby stain.
"Eh, you cat !" .She turned and struck the .foil a stinging
blow on her cheek, which brought out four finger marks in faint
red on the chalky skin. "Now ! be careful and attend when
you are bid !"
Mary Ann threw down the scissors. "You may cut it your-
self!' I'll not touch it again ! You have slapped me once too of-
ten, Belle Brandon. You are theoneto take care now."
Belle flew. at her, her face pale, her'.eyes the color of a moon-
lit lake. The animal mastered for the .moment the wily woman
w-ho usually held it so well in check ; and as Mary Ann's temper
was up, and her claws all ready, the beauty might.have.got marks
on her handsome.face:which it would have .cost her some ingen-
ious lying, to account for, had not madame appeared in -the door-
way. She was about to' propose a little treat'to her favorite-a
visit to the conservatory,-and she stopped, astonished, scarcely
'believing her eyes.
"What!", said she, ' what does this mean, young ladies !"
Quickly as the.lightning flashes did Belle rule her features,

611


612        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

command them to archness; and she sprang forward with a gay
laugh, her hands clasped in childish penitence.
"Ah, madame, you saw our little drama, 'the Highfliers.' We
did not mean to make so much noise. Oh dear ! I'm quite out of
breath. Please don't mind our wild spirits, we're all agog over
the party. This is to be my dress; is it not lovely?"  She kept
carefully her well arm towards madame, and threw a threatening
look at Mary Ann, who stood lowering and sullen, with wrathful,
cattish eyes, behind-her.
"It seems to me that Miss Williams looks rather- cross for an
actress," said madame significantly.;
"I ain't no actress!' She struck me with the hair-brush. We
ain't gay. She is mad because I could'nt suit her. She is al-
ways scolding and twitting me, making fun and getting me laughed
at. She wears all my things ; them is my earrings she's' got in
her ears this minute. She makes me wash, and iron, and sew;
she treats me worse nor a nigger. She is a nasty, mean, under-
handed-peacock !"
" Silence ! Miss Williams ;- very improper language. What is
the matter with your arm, Miss Brandon ?"  Madame took the
round member in her hand and looked closely at it.
" Oh nothing, dearest Madame, nothing ,I assure you; pray
don't ask me; indeed I cannot speak."  She threw a hurried
glance at Mary Ann, and whispered, " such a temper ! poor child,
so violent sometimes ; don't punish her, I entreat, for my sake."
" I cannot suffer this to pass," said madame, much disturbed.
"In all my experience among young ladies, I am happy to say
I have never met such a case ; personal violence is revolting!
Stab her with the sharp scissors? Why, Miss Williams, you
shock me more than I can express ! Such a temper will get you
into an insane retreat, or a prison, if you don't have a care."
"I did'nt; Madame," sniveled Mary Ann. "She pushed off my
hand when Iwas cutting her dress, and stuck herself, and now
she wants to pretend I'm to blame, as if I went to do it 'a pur-
pose. Oh ! Madame, you don't know nothing about her. She's
struck me often and often before. Just look at my cheek! them's

her finger-marks. She's always mighty sweet when you are
round; but just you see her when 4she don't care for nobody,
then can't she be cross and hateful enough."
Belle resorted to various expedients to squelch her foil, but she
would not be -squelched, and the accusations she went on pouring
out in not very choice English, sounded so true that 'Madame
silenced Belle and ordered her to go on ; and it all came out
about the picture, and the post-office letters, and a hundred tricks'
besides, which Belle had trusted to Mary Ann's cowardice to con-
ceal. "And Chris has been crying about it. I peeped in and
saw her, and I wish I'd a been dead before I did it. And she
goes on about pa and ma; they was always too good to her.
She may make much of what she 's got out of us; she shant
never darken our 'doors again."
"Miss Brandon," Madame touched 3elle's wounded arm with
her finger, "upon your honor explain to me the real cause of
this. I am sorry to say that in trifles, both in school and other-
wheres, I have reason to doubt Miss Williams' veracity. Her
reports are inaccurate, and the, matter of that stained handker-
chief has never been cleared up."
" Let me tell, Madame. I'll speak true. I upset the ink and
wiped it up with that handkerchief when I went to get the sketch
for her, (pointing to Belle.) I did'nt know what she wanted of
it. She told me to burn it up, but Miss Filer came before I had
time ; and that is the truth."
"It seems to me that my pet is rather making a fool of her-
self," said Belle. "I think she is ready for the retreat now. I
have no idea what she is driving at, I am sure. As for sending
her to Mr. Goldsmith's room, that is absurd. Why should I do
it? I saw the sketch for the first time when it stood on the
piano, where Chris found it.- She will tell you so."  Belle's eyes
were as clear and blue as a summer sky, and she stood gracefully
and quietly gazing in madame's face while she talked.
" You are a horrid liar, Belle Brandon !"
Belle shrugged her shoulders. "Don't mind herMadame ; I
assure you I don't in the least."

WIDOW GOLDS3IITII'S DAUGHTER.     613


614        WIDOW GOLDSMITH's DAUGHTER.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUG IITER.        615

"cYou saw her strike me, Madame,.and you .see my face ! it
shows for itself. As I hope to go to heaven when I die, I've told
you the 'truth."  Mary Ann covered up her face and sobbed
aloud.       .
"I am very sorry;" 17egan madame unwillingly. She hated to
believe such things about her pet, handsome pupil. The strong
contrast in the personal.appearance of the two girls affected her
at ,this moment insensibly. Belle's face was so ingenuous, so
sweetly simple. -"2I must take this matter into consideration, and
at the proper time and place I will advise you of mgy decision. I
cannot permit either of you to mingle in the festivities{of the
evening. Pleasures intended to .reward good scholarship and
ladylike deportment are not for you. Miss Brandon, the charges
against you are of so serious a nature that .I must investigate
carefully. I hope you will be able to clear yourself; but the
passion you have indulged in this morning, of which the proof .is
evident, is an unladylike exhibition, which deserves .punishment.
Go to your room, Miss Williams. I .forbid further communica-
tion with Miss .fBrandon till these affairs are settled."
" You don't need to forbid, Madame ; I don't desire ever to set
eyes on her again, I'm sure."  Mary Ann got.up and walked off
half bent--shoulders up to'her ears--blowing her red nose and
snuffling.
"Adieu! precious pet!",said Belle, kissing her hand behind
madame's back. It looked ill, but she did not despair of hushing
it up if she could stave off inquiries till Chandos was gone, and
he was to leave on the morrow early, having stopped over a cou-
ple of days.for the party; and she fervently hoped that madame
would find enough to do to occupy. every moment. If Chandy
was only out of the way, there was no proof against her, and he
would have the, onus of the sketch. The stained handkerchief
looked black, but she could manage somehow.
"You will allow me to compete, for the prizes, Madame, I
hope."
"Severity would lead me to confine you to your apartment,
Miss Brandon; but I shall be just. Yes, you may compete as

though in good and regular standing. I shall waive the affair till
examination is over."
'Thanks Madame. I shall not mind losing the party in the
least, if you will only take my word. I am innocent, believe me."
"That must be proven, my dear. I hope you will be able to
make it plain. If you have anything to say to me, any confes-
sions to make, you may come to my dressing-room this evening
at seven."
'- Of course I shall appear at examination. You cannot afford
to miss my voice out of your.programme, or my handsome face
from your' rostrum," sneered Belle, as Madame's heavy silk rus-
tled out of sight.


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.       617

CHAPTER FORTJY-THIRD-
CONFLICTS.
Madame Groenveldt's arrangements were perfect. She gave
her attention to the minutest details, as she grasped the, finished
whole. All her guests were made comfortable, were royally en-,
tertained. The old farm house on the other side of the pond,
and quite hidden from the grand mansion by its greenery, was
swept and garnished and 'great fires up the chimney roared.'
There lodged the Papas and Mamas who flocked together to ex-
ult- and rejoice over their offspring, and enjoy the festivities which
were the talk of the country round. When .that ancient edifice
overflowed, the gothic cottage, owned by old Mr. Bloombarg,
the bachelor savant, who passed his summers there fishing in the
quiet lake, and wandering about the dim old woods, and who was
supposed to be an ancient lover of Madame's, so tender and re-
spectful was he ; kissing her hand with vast devotion, bringing
flowers for her boquet, blush rose buds, sweet peas, camilias-
but school girls are always fancying love-passages. They weave
them out of their silly brains, Spin them from less than nothing
and vanity. At any rate, his gothic cottage on the hill, overlook-
ing Magic lake, was placed at the service of the lady whom he de-
lighted to honor, and its pleasant rooms saw rare sights ; pretty,
fair girlish faces, pressed to warm old hearts, honest eyes swim-
ming in tears of love and joy, and beautiful mother tenderness
gushing out in caresses over its offspring.
Madame's servants -went hither 'and thither, beaming on the
guests, and cheerfully doing their bidding. She had a way like
(616)

magnetism with her servants. They always took an interest: a
state of mind which some housekeepers long for in their help, and
seek but never find.
The dear old Professor had got on a dress coat, white neck-tie;
and the posey in his-button-hole, without, which he never consid-
ered himself festive. Bertha, hovered around him with loving
touches. When she had finished his toilette, she nestled in his
arms and tried to hider a-couple -of tears, which were dropping
silently.
"Don't you mind it, dear, he is only a poy after all," said the
Professor, wiping them away with his bandana, and -kissing her,
" Yes papa, I know," whispered Bertha, "but I'm only a girl,
and I love him. He's, good and handsome, and the kindest fellow
sometimes. He looks out of his eyes at me so sweet and true ;
don't mind my being silly for once papa, (blushing.)  I won't be
any more."
His kind heart ached for her heart-ache, and he listened ten-
derly to what some parents would have checked as ridiculous
nonsense.
" He'll be hme bye and bye."
"Oh yes, papa, and then he won't be a boy any longer, and he
.won't care any thing about me, and I shall have forgotten all
about lim, (I hope,) and I shall be very useful and very good.
I'm going to be a teacher you know, and after a while I shall
look just like Miss Filer and rub my red - nose. I shall never
marry anybody, never. I am going to stay with you and keep
you tidy and nice, and you must not get tired of me. I'm so glad
you spoke of'him. Good kind papa;,there was'nt another person
in the whole world to whom I could have confessed,; such a dear
father confessor, and I feel ever so much better, quite comforted;
after all it is. my secret. Our secret now, papa, though how you
found it out I can't contrive I'm sure. NQ one else dreams of it,
and we won't ever speak of it any more. IL don't look as if I had
been crying, do I ?"
She ran to the mirror and peered in at herself, and hugged her


618   WIDOW gOeLP MTn' : AgU CW        W  D T  DU  .6i.W

father, and after half an hour of quiet sitting with her face on
his shoulder, she reached up and kissed him softly and left him.
The bustle of dressing was over. The graduating class were
all assembled in the library. Madame reviewed them critically.
White muslins),tucked sashes,.one camelia among its shining leaves.
in the breast knot. This was the order, and she looked to, see it
faithfully obeyed. Not an ornament or jewel of any kind; the
whitesgloves, Jouvin's best, she always ordered herself, and thewhite
kid boots. It was well that Amecican necks and shoulders are
so nearlyperfect, and arms so,wellrounded, for no relieving brace-
lets were allowed, no gauds, no earrings, no tinkling ornaments.
The frizzly, a in frantic style had not come then, and I question
if the Rosenbloom:'Graduates would have been permitted to ap-
pear thus if it had. Madame's brows expanded in bland appro-
bation. -  Perfect, young ladies," said she, "leaving nothing to be
desired in your apparel. I hope you will this day demonstrate to
your' friends that you are as apples of gold, set in pictures of sil-
ver. You also, my dear young pupils," she ran her eyes qver the
dress coats, spotless vests and shining boots which were scattered
about among the muslins, "are in excellent taste. You look like
American gentlemen. Foreigners may say what they please; we
women have occasion to know that there is a triue, delicate, pure
hearted kindness for us in the hearts of our husbands and brothers,
which makes our comfort their chiefest care, and our happiness
their constant delight."  She paused with a smile and bow, and
the young gentlemen all bowed in return. "Your class-color is
well chosen also. Blue--truth--"I think it belongs of right to, all
of you.' That you may prize it aboye rubies and live it in your
lives will be my constant prayer. Here you will find the order
of your march to the hall, and I hope you will be' satisfied with
my coupling, which,'however, lasts only through the day's exercises,
and the first quadrille this evening; further ] have no jurisdiction,
and I hope kind Providence will order it wisely hereafter. I can-
not sufficiently thank you,'my dear pupils, for your kind attention
to, my advice and instructions, and in severing the bonds which
have heyh us together for four pleasant years, I feel sure that you

will carry joy and happiness to, the hpmes you are ftted to.adorn;
and. I look forward to hearing of you after a suitable time in
households of your own, which .I feel sure you, (bowing to the
young men,)-will admirably govern, and (transferring her bow
and smile to the girlstIknow that the hearts of your husbinda may
safely trust in you. . I believe none of you are too strong-minded,
and feel sure that each of you will take kindly to woman's true
mission."  Then' she kissed them" all round, and -wiped her eyes
and blessed them 'in a grand motherly way,,which repressed any
inclination to stixile, and. which i pressed them the whole day.
Only the junior and senior classes were allowed public examina,
tion. The others being privately prepared- for, their grades.
Madame's arrangements of nusic, declamation, etc.,- were dra-
matic in effect, and always delighted the audience. The great
Lyceum hall was full to. overflowing, with, an expectant crowd, all
buzz and flutter, whispering and smiling in the best possible hu-
mor with themselves. and their hosts. Candy, Sam, and half a
dozen. other good looking fellows officiating as marshals, fbr the
- day and evening, were passing about, dropping ,gay words among
the throng. Their batons of office in, their white gloved hands
and vast satin.rosettes adorning the right breast of their swallow-
tails. Rumor whispered - that. madame always elected for 'her
ushers the handsomest fellows in school, and if she did we can
only commend-her taste and discretion. The stage'was honored by
a double row of double-chinned elderly gentlemen in white or
buff waistcoats, who sat cross-legged and twiddled their thumbs
and looked profound. These were the committee who awarded
the prizes.. In front of them, a row of chairs.for the graduates:
Precisely as the clock struck nine, they came in two and two.
Professor Noble having Miss Filer on his arm, at their head; all
necks were craned up, and many comments found voice while the
procession passed along.
" Massy me, if there ai'nt our Sairy along ,o that 'handsome
Cuban feller! law, don't she look pretty in her low sleeve and
short neck ?"
" John walks up like a hen to a dough-pan, don't he ma?" said

WXPOW - GOLD)SMITII'S DAUGHTER.  6l;9


620               WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGtITER.
bld -Mr. Blunt to 'his wife, trying not to look elated over his young=
ster, "and' that's a pretty leetle creatur 'a hangin on to 'his arm
sly as kittens: who is she ?"
"She's Jahiram Peeble's darter, pa. I expect our John '11 take
the heft of the prizes," replied the proud mother, fanning herself
furiously.
"It is a pretty sight i'snt it ?" said widow Weeks to her old bach-
elor brother. "-Somuch fresh youth and beauty."  Her humid
eyes rested on her lovely child whom she had not seen in a. white
dress since her great loss, and her face saddened among her mem-
ories.- In the mean time they were Eall seated. They had re-
ceived. a 'subdued reception from the Art scholars, and Alumni, as
demonstrative as madame's strict rules permitted-who all wore
their class-colors, and were fond of talking' about the. class of
"sixty this and that," and took on airs of grandeur and - experi-
ence. The competitors for the prizes were in a stall like a pri-
vate box in a theatre, except that it reached to the ceiling, was
arched in and had tiers of seats rising toward the: back, and a
side door which opened upon the stage. They were allowed to
use their own taste 'in colors and style of dress. Juan Gonzalez,
a Matanzas scholar, set next Chris, and was a competitor .for
English composition. Sabrina on her 'other side, tried for the
French letter, and the rest of the class, about twenty in number,
were'seated=to please themselves and made a pretty grouping, and
none there were lovelier thanBelle Brandon, who, for some un-
explained whim, bad chosen'to come out in dead black silk. She
had-solid gold bracelets' and necklace, and on her blonde hair,
which she had turned back, in light waves, she wore a lace
ruche whichhad nearly the effect of a widow's cap. Indeed she
said as she put it on,- I should look well as a widow. I'lmarry
a rich -nan so as to enjoy the dress, when I 'get rid of him." She.
sat directly in front, where the chequered lights from the stained
Cathrine-vheel played over her polished-arms, and-she made smiles
and dimples for the audience though she seemed absorbed in the
dark browed Cuban- at her side.    Poor, foolish, hot-headed
Zamnbrano, who forgot everything in~ her' presence, and had

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S ,aDAUGHTER.           - 6 1
already indited scores of notes to her, and many versesin pure
Spanish, as well as, indifferent English, in her praise,, andwho
flushed p when she touched his'hand, and sighed when she spoke
to his friend-Peebles, who often. claimed her attention. . Butthe
time for talking was over. The prayer was 'about to, be offe ed,
and Madame's eyes ran around the hall to be sure that.all were
in their places and.all attentive. Then came a quartette axnd chorus
-by the Professor's Beethoven Club, then some recitations and;so
on till Professor Noble called, "Juan Gonzalez,'f and the young-
ster rose and threaded his way among the seats and passed oyt of
the door, faced the audience and made his. bow.
"Bavicca, the Cid's best friend."
His proud bearing, dark fade, intense passionate eyes, remind-
ed Chris of Otho, as she had seen him by the pond, looking 4own
at the lily pads, at the wall, and a hundred other times. Nay
their very voices were the same, and she pressed her hand upon-
her heart while she listened, and she threw her .wild deer glance
around her once or twice, seeking to flee. Belle reached,across
the two who sat letween, and tapped. her arm with her black
fan.
"Your chance is lost, Mignone, I think. This is poetry married
to music."
Chris- drew away with a start, and frowned at her arm, and was
herself again in an instant, calm and attentive. Gonzalez had
finished and made his parting bow, amidst shouts of applause,
and Professor Noble read from his programme, " Christabel Gold-
smith, English composition."  Chris rose quietly from- her place,
next Sabrina, who had been holding her .hand ever since she. sat
down. Though no word was ever spoken between them this thought-
ful friend knew intuitively her trouble.. She had witnessed the
meeting in the library, and had almost hated Otho ever since, and
her heart ached to see. Chris so still and passive. She, knew her
so well, and had revelled so often in her gorgeous thoughts, her
rich revelations of her inner life, her artist dreams, her fairy tales,
and the reposeful woman-talks when good common sense guided

0


*  6 2        WIDoW GOLSlTII'S DAUGHTERR.
Their tongues. Now it was as if'she was shut up in ice, and Miss
B radshaw also took herself 'to task that she had forgotten and
neglected her, in the rush and hurry of school duties.  But to
what goodSabria, since you eould not watch over her always.
NobQdcould 'shield her from the consequences of her habits, she
must conquer alone.
She dropped a slight courtesy, before the sea of facesand un-
rolled her paper. The folds'of hei. silver grey poplin-fell about her
slefndr figure, little muslin ruffles shaded her throat and =wrists
delicately fluted; 'her hands wee'clearcut,:r-osy tinted ;,:and Sher'
marvelous hair of shining chestnut threaded with .gold, plainly
tucked behind her ears, and falling a rich mass below her waist.;
and her face, so still, so emotionless. Madame threw a troubled
look at her. She was so 'perfeet tin her quiet repose, like a grey
statue.
"CONFLICTS."
Her voice dropped, clear,  vibrating. Every ear in the great
hall caught the word, and the people moved uneasily, and sought
each other's eyes. 'She; looked as if all her conflicts were over,
and she waited for the end. She raised her dropped lids, and
swept the , audience in a swift glance, and a flood of crimson
surged over her cheeks. The forced unnatural calm dissolved,
her red lips curved sorrowfully, and a mist floated before her
beseeching b-own 'eyes, so tender, yet so despairing. She 'met a
look in the crowd which had power to sway her soul, to hold it
beneath its spell': a face she-'had not seen since that wretched
moment, so-hateful to remembere. A remorseless judge, a stern
sorrowful countenance, 'marble pale, great intense eyes which fas-
tened 'her's, and would not release them; but with a shadow over
them which veiled her out from love and joy, and left her a wan-
derer in the cold world 'forever. And she had 'seen 'them look so
'differently to that. She knew how-dear protecting fondness could
light their shadow. Alas ! disgust and scorn had' shot'at her from
those same:eyes, and'beaten her down from her high place. Mat
spoke to his friend and 'he turned to answer. Chris- shuddeed

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S -DAUGHTER.      623

and trembled, and gathered up her strength.' She knew what her
future must be, she had marked it out and prayed over it, and she
would have no pity. She moistened her tongue, and pressing her
handkerchief to her lips an instant she commenced. The silence
was breathless. They hung on her words, and were still 'silent
when she ceased ; not a murmur of applause greeted her, but
every eye followed her to her place. The wise "old heads con-
ferred together, and the 'chairman rose and 'announced the prize,
awarded to Christabel Goldsmith. 'Gonzalez offered his hand
with a smile, and whispered compliment. Chris did not catch its
import, sh-e was thinking of the 'face in the crowd, but she took
the Arm he offered her and came back, 'and stood on the rostrum
while the chairman addressed some very flowery remarks to her;
and then Professor Noble took the curious toy of a work table,
inlaid and carved with 'Chinese patience, in his hands, and offered
it to her, and showed her the odd-shaped, delicately' wrought
hinders, and bobbins, and knicknacks, with a funny puzzled ;smile
and shake of the head at his utter ignorance of their use.
" Of Latin prose, algebraic quantities, 'syllogisms, 'I profess my
self a judge, but these!" he shrugged his shoulder and spread
his hands.
Those about them laughed, and Roger took the toy and passed.
down the aisles in order that all the ladies might examine it. It
Was pronounced a "perfect love," a "wonderful contrivance," 'a
"curus thing, and so on, according to the dialects of the be-
holders, and Chris obeyed Herr Groenveldt's sumions to the.
piano, where Belle was' already seated. She took the - sheet he
offered her,. the prelude ran smoothly 'and artistically on, 'and
Chris opened her lips to commence her solo-something jarred-
were the chords false ?  She 'threw a frowning, troubled look
upon the fair pianist, and caught her treachery in a 'tell-tale eye-
beam 'before she had time to veil it beneath her dropped lids.
"I will not be your victim" said she, laying down the music;
"you are trying to throw me out."
Madame fidgeted, annoyed at the'unwonted jarring in her ma-
chinery, but 'it 'was only for an instant. Before she knew where


624 *       .WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S. DAUGHTER.

she was, Miss Brandon found herself standing by the- piano,-in.
stead of seated before it.
"iEermit me," Otho had said, touching her arm, "I will ac-
company, you," and he took the vacated place and ran his fingers
over the keys.
" Begin," said he, raising his eyes and bowing.-
-  A flood of memory 'dashed over Chris;' she. did not wonder
how, he caine there, or why ; she thought only of the other time
when she lbad sung his music, and he had said to her "begin."
She drew her breath with asob: his eyes fixed on hers, his busi-
ness air, his body swaying slightly to the.motion of his hands, so
coolly attentive to :the task before him, as if he saw a singing
pupil in hersand nothing more, forced her to self-control, and she
tookup the sheet and commenced.
The true, pure tones swelled into the ,passionate. utterance,
Holy; Mother, ggide his footsteps," the cry of a sick soul, a sac-
rificialprayer!      .
Belle, had not intended to sing, her part, and fully expected a
break-down, which she would cover grandly in a dashing render-
ing of one of her lovely songs, and had the music ready; but she
resolved not to lose her triumph, for which she had practiced,
tirelessly, and the more as she thought Otho would take her part
if she left it to him, she struck ii at the proper' place, with her
rich contralto, and poured forth her threaded notes rapidly,.clear-
ly, softly; but through all it was as if a mocking spirit mingled
with .the petition, and she the while watched the pair she de-
tested, gloating, over their sufferings.
So wrapt was Chris in her own emotions, that she stood still
till the echoes of her voice died away, with her head bent and her
heart beating. She scarcely heard the murmur of applause, she
was unconscious of the whispered   comments and    inquiries
among the .listeners; she remembered only herself and the man
she loved who. sat at her side, so close that her garments touched
him, and who had not a word or look for her.
When he rose and walked away, she sighed as if a spell were
lifted, and passing her hand across her forehead, she staggered,

WIDOW GOLDS'IfTH''S -DAUGSRTER.         .625
and would have fallen, but the watchful. Professor laid his hand
upon her arm, and led her back to her stall; out of sight of the
audience, he detained her a moment.
"Will you'choose to withdraw, Fraulein ?" whispered he. "Are
you not taxing your strength toohardly? Nay, do not weep be-
fore all these gazing eyes. It is better for you to go to your
room; I will make de excuse to madame."
His tender, sympathetic heart ached to see her, but he could not
help her; these two must work out the problem of their lives for
themselves; he could not even offer advice to his haughty son.
" Thanks, no," said Chris; "if I falter now, how shall I bear,
all the long days to come?' I will take in place-at once."
She drank eagerly' of the iced water he offered, and raising his
hand.to her lips, with a pitiful, patient smile, she passed through
the door and resumed her seat.
Sabrina, who had inher lap the French letter.prize, a cabinet
picture, " The Gipsey Bride," which.she liked for its fancied re-
semblance to her sister Pauline, held it up as Chris sat down, and
she managed the needful smile and speech.
Gonzalez had gotten the Latin prose, Zambrano the Eschylus,
others of the competitors had won successes, and were passing
them about and admiring them; and now, after an oration, it be-
came Belle's turn to display, and play; Zambrano conducted her
to the, instrument, and held her boquet, and turned her music.
She drew off her gloves carefully, and commenced a brilliant
fantasia, all runs and arpeggios, into which she put a soul, though
where she got it was a mystery. Her execution was faultless ;
the harmonies ran-=-trickled off her .fingers, not a note blurred,
not one missing.
She brought down the house-;no such applause had greeted
any performance that day, and when she stood up and took
a step forward, with her boquet in her hand, and - bowed, and
lifted her modest, swimming eyes, and parted her lips in a lovely
smile of childish pleasure, everyman and boy in. the hall ,felt
himself personally appealed to. Here was innocence to be shelb
tered,,purity to be worshipped; and the remarks whioh reached
27


626          WIDOW'GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
her-=- j lovely," "beautiful,"~"so simple,". "so sweet," "what a
'darling," and so on, were sweetest music to her. She, could not'
forbear one half-veiled, triumphant glance at Madame as she re-
theated.
That dignitary could .not keep down her' pleasure; it would
fash through the sternness she desired to; manifest toward her
showy, beautiful pupil, who acquitted herself everywhere so ad-
mirably; aid she secretly regretted the necessity of shutting her
out from the evening's enjoyments, which shedwould so adorn,
and she turned over in her mind- the best and wisest things to
say, when she should come in tears of pretty penitence and im-
plore her pardon, and beg a remission of her sentence,'as she had.
done often and often before, and throw herself on her mercy-she
was so lovely in 'tears. True, she had struck Mary Ann Wil-
liams, but that girl was trying, she had undoubtedly been much
provoked; as to'the rest, Mary Ann was 'proven to be a liar, and
she would not rashly decide.- And' madame also glanced toward
the stall where 'Christabel sat with drooping 'shoulders, her 'eyes
fixed on vacancy, her lips compressed, her whole attitude absent
and absorbed:; and she thought she. could be more comfortable
with this brilliant;_showy, ready-witted beauty, who was sufficient
to herself and to 'any occasion, than with one whom she could not
comprehend or assimilate to; and wondered and lamented for the
thousandth time over her only'son's blind infatuation. Bertha
also came in for share of her regretful thoughts ;' she 'had taken
no,prizes, and she had developed: whims and follies in her friend-
ships. She systematically ignored Miss Brandon and 'her blan-
dishments, and she loved Chris. 'She had seen her cover her face
with kisses, and she grudged them every one.
" That also comes of a liking which I wish had no existence,
and which I fear may end in sorrow: Bertha is a steady, good
child, constant in her' friendships."
Her eyes followed" her thought till they lighted ' on handsome
Chandos, leaning idly on the edge of the stall, conversing smil-
ingly with:Sabrina, Zoe, and Zambrano, and eating bon-bons out
of a pretty bor which Peebles had' sent over to the girls with his

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.        '    627
compliments.. Bertha sat near them, but her face was quiet;
though Zoe's arm was around her waist, and she spoke lovingly
to her, and gave her sweet looks, the mother's heart ached to see
that she got no kindling gleam of gaiety in return, and she bit
her lip impatiently as she watched the insouciant boy making the
most of his time, after his happy-go-lucky fashion, bringing them
all into his talk, and promoting mirth by his mirthful face, and
she heartily wished that her :two children had never 'grie to Roar-
ing River, nor seen the Goldsmiths.
" That fellow will be carrying his good looks and nice speeches,
that mean nothing, a long way off presently, and there'll be an
end of that folly. Let him go to Italy 'and stay there. Poor
Bertha! good child !' her first heart-ache, so early, too; and the
dull, heavy, flavorless days that willtfollow' before this wears out.
But it can't be 'helped; every girl has to go through it as she
does through the whooping cough' and measles."

4,


CHAPTER -FO R TY-FOURTH.
PAPA GROENVELDT BESTOWS SOME FLOWERS UPO nHIS
DAUGHTERS.
THE day's trials and triumphs were over and Chris stood with
the scholarship in .her hand;. the prize she had toiled for, and
dreamed of, and she wondered what had become of the exulting
joy such dreams had promised her. She went through the con-
gratulations with the same set,.joyless face, and passive manner
she had worn all day. One trial more, and she could hide her-
self from her kind like a wounded deer, that creeps away into
the dense thicket to suffer alone.
Though Otho had been so near that he had touched her band,
he was oh ! so far away ! Not sympathy for her, not even pity
had prompted his actions, only his sense of the fitness of things,
and interest in the harmony of his mother's arrangements. He
had spoken to her but the one word, " begin-;" not even the com-
mon courtesies he offered to strangers--the pears at dinner, a
glass of water-nothing; and her repentance and self-blame be-
gan to give way to proud resentment and anger.. After all, she
had committed no crime. The blood flushed up in her cheeks as
she remembered her broken promise, her forgetfulness of his ex-
pressed wishes.
"He shall be troubled by no more of my short-conings ; he
has taken hgis release, I will gladly confirm it."
As she thus thought, she raised her head proudly, and smiling
a bitter smile, she shut herself' into her room. She did not know
that longing, hungry eyes were watching her, reading her moods
as on a written page.

WIDOW GOLD SMITU'S D    GWI E.             G2~
Her rejected dresses lay in a heap on the floor, her soiled
apron in the chair, half a dozen books,.a slipper, an empty ink-
stand, and some dried passion-flowers on the bed, and her armoire
doors swinging. She blushed as deep- at the sight .as though
Otho's eyes had been gazing also, and she put up her scholarship
and set herself to bring order out of the chaos, laying aside
each article with a resolution folded into it;' and when .ll was
finished, she sat down to think, but she had small time for bring-
ingther plans into shape, before the supper-bell rang. She got up
and stood before her mirror, smoothed her hair, examined her
collar, ruled all emotions out of her face, and quietly descended.
At the door of the supper-room the  dear old Professor met her;
and drew her hand within his arm, patting it softly, and placed
her in her usual seat on his right. Otho came and sat-opposite,
and Belle Brandon had the next place. Madame, from her end
of the:table, thought what a handsome pair :they were ; what-an
absolute contrast in coloring and expression.--the feinale so child-
ishly bewitching, the male so proudly grave, and both so perfect;
and again she wished that Belle would beg for her evening's
pleasure, and wondered - at the impulsive, daring little creature's
unclouded face under her disappointment.
Chris took mechanically what was offered to her, and though
her eyelids would quiver at sound of Otho's voice, she steadily
turned away from him; he was no more anything to her,.and she
was using all the force she was mistress of, to thrust him out of
his place in her heart, to release: herself from  the bondage
which was irksome to her, and go her joyless way unaided and
alone.
A' little glass jar of preserved ginger stood before the Profes-
sor; he and Chris loved all sorts of foreign sweets, and :were
accustomed to share them together, with kind words and sly fun;
like two merry children. He placed a tempting saucer under Iher
eyes, and touched her hand, and ma'det pantomime of eating
with vast relish. She bowed, thought she smiled,' and sofight
absently up and down for something she needed; itwas te
.oon, but as none met her eyes, which happenedto rest on the


WIDOW  GOLDSMITH' DAUGHTERE.                                W

caster, she concluded it to be: mustard and 'pepper which she
lacked, so she drew it towards her, and having plastered her
sweetmeats with mustard, she sprinkled them plentifully with pep-
per. Belle burst into a:mocking laugh, touching Zambrano's arm
and pointing out the preioceupiec1 girl, whose bent head- drooped
under, her. disordered, unwelcome thoughts. She drew Otho's at-
tention also from a conversation he was. laboriously sustaining,
and Je' frowned angrily.
"Roger!" said he, in an offended tone, "take that away and'
bring a plate of broiled oysters."
oger obeyed, and placing the" tempting bivalves before Chris,
he took hold of her saucer ,to draw it gently away. Chris came
to herself, and seeing-what she had done, she threw a shy, fright-
ened glance around the table; .many eyes were fixed on her, and
some were laughing at her.
" Roger," said Chris; recalling the servant, with sparkling eyes,
why !did you bring me these ?"
"Mr.-Groenveldt ordered them, Miss Goldsmith," replied Roger,-
raising his eyebrows apologetically.
"Very well, give them to Mr. Groenveldt; when I desire any
food I will ask you."
Chris:threw herself back in her chair in angry silence.
"So, so, Fraulein," said- the dear old Professor, patting her'
hand under the table.        ,
Chris turned her face toward him and smiled ; in none of her
many changing moods, could she be sour to him.
Otho was talking Germany with Max, and his reminiscences
of the slangenbad must have been mirth provoking, for a queer
smile'lighted his 'gravity, though he seemed oblivious of Chris;
and her doings.
"You ought to have a:taster, Mignone ; you'll poison yourself
one of these fine days," said Belle.
"Perhaps I may, but I wish you was as sure of dropping into
your grave without poisoning somebody, as I am of steering clear
'of what isn't good for me.".'
Chris could not have told what impelled her to answer Belle

630

63 1

thus, nor could 'Belle' have accounted for. the shudder which ran
through her, and an odd thing happened to her, too.:, for one in-
stant the present vanished, and as'if Chris's eyes;were a mirror,
she saw herself in them; an:old; ugly, guilt-stained'hag, a pollu-
ted creature. Perhaps -her guardian' angel showed her.the-vision,
to save her from the ruin hertreachery and falsehood would-bring
upon her; perhaps it foreshadowed the dreary end, 'who can say ?
She shook herself restlessly, and ,tossed off :her curls,.and her
Geraldine eyes sought those around her; ;it seemed -as if they
must have seen the sight she saw, and it took a good look in the
long mirror oppositeto reassure her.
" Papa Groenveldt," spoke up Zoe, saucily, "'do you not intend
to give your daughters some fresh - flowers, for our. party;? some
scarlet for me, if: you please ; something purple for Sabrina, it
might be heliotropes ; lilies or white rose buds for Bertha; a clas-
sic wreath for Chris-"                     -
"Chris loves pansies," broke in Belle ; " we all know what her
pet flower is. She had them in her hair 'up at Craigenfells, at
the fair ; she picks them out from the thousand ; no others are so
precious to her, so full of thoughts, as pretty Ophelia says."
Chris suffered under Belle's talk, and.she threw a swift look at
Otho, and met his eyes fixed upon her with a steady, questioning
glance, which made her drop hers upon her plate.
" You shall have pomegranates, little gipsey; Sabrina-"
" Sabrina," spoke up Chandy, interrupting, "'thou shalt not
lack the flower that's like thy face ; pale primrose, nor the azured
harebell, like thy eyes ; no, nor the leaf of eglantine which out-
sweetest not thy breath."'
" That'll do, Chandy," said Sam; "drop Milton."
The Professor laughed and went on: "My good Bertha shall
have tube-roses ; Dolores, -yellow jessamine; and I know Belle
desires to have orange-flowers," (slyly.)
In the laugh that followed, and the jokes which cut Belle rather
close,Ihe turned to Chris, and said with fatherly fondness:
" Is it pansies, Fraulein? now I do remember; you wear them
at your throat, your press them between your book-leaves. It is

WIDOW. GOLDSMIPU'S.-DAUGHTER


WIDOW ;GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

lucky; Elwanger hs sent me some beauties, as large as a Spanish
dollar, and as deeps'and rich a violet-as those lustrous orbs Dolo-
res uses so well. You shall have them, Fraulein; I won't pull
my flowers for everybody, but my pupil shall have them-my
art scholar." He patted her hand with a wistful look, "Ah, if
they could be to, thee heart's-ease, my daughter."
She lifted thankful eyes to him, but she had hard work to be
quiet, for she felt sure he must remember the bunch of pansies
she had painted into the hat of her St.4Alexis.
" It is so good to have a friend," said she, after a little. " You
rest me, and it will not do for me to get over weary, will it? for
I am going to dance to-night."  Again she looked at Otho, and
again she met that questioning gaze.
"Will you dance once with me, fraulein, von valtz ?"
"Oh yes," answered she, smiling. "I shall set you spinning to
a swift measure ; we'will be gay together."
Tenderly the dear-old Professor put out his hand 'and touched
hers, and this time he sighed deeply.-

CHAPTER FORTY-FIFTH.
THE GREAT PARTY.
ErHT o'clock was the hour at which the guests were to Fasw
semble, and all the pupils were expected to be in the ball-room
at that time. The half-hour had struck, and still Chris stood be-
fore her mirror, her hands busy with her chestnut- hair, intent
upon her work. She was, trying her skill once more upon a
Sappho knot.
" There!" said she at length, resting her tired arms and hold-
ing up her little hand-glass to get the effect; "I think that is
perfect. Ruthie herself, skillful little hair-dresser as she is, could
not have done it better. None of Miss Brandon's tumble-down
frouzes this time. Timon is indeed Timon's friend."  She threw
her dress carefully over her head--the dainty muslin, Chandy's
purchase-and arranged each airy fold, and tied her" sash with
anxious care. A bunch of pansies lay on her dressing-table ; she
stooped and inhaled their fragrance from time to time with a
loving motion, which was a caress.
"Dear old friend ! kind master ! faithful in adversity. I will
wear your flowers gladly this once ; but I shall never wear them
again. These thoughts and I must take leave of each other, and be
strangers forevermore."  She separated them with tender gesture,
and placed part in her hair as she had worn them -that evening
when Otho called her "violet crowned,-sweetly smiling Sappho,"
and arranged the rest in her breast-knot; looked again to the
lacing of the white satin boots she had electrified madame by
quietly ordering. She drew on her dainty Jouvin's, fitted and
(633)


634

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

fastened them to a nicety, and then,. scanned herself--eagerly,
anxiously.
" Is there anything wanting which other girls would have whose
souls are made of finery?  Let me be sure. Sabrina or Zoe
would tell me, but I will not be told. I will know of my own
knowledge. Since the neglect of my outward adornment is of
consequence enough to turn, the true love of 'my lover to sour
disdain, I will make it my study. Yes, in small detail, he shall
see that I can shine in dress. It shall be a duty-a duty to my-
self."
"Too late ! too late !" whispered her aching heart. "You
have already lost him."
"True," she replied to her heart. "And since I lost him.
through this, it must be a terrible fault,: and I will amend it. I'll
have no giant faults. 'It seems it is not enough to be true and
pure a'nd honest, and even scholarly, but we must be well-dressed
also. Therefore let us attend." She studied the reflection which
her mirror gave her carefully, and a triumphant joy dashed into
her face.
"Christabel Goldsmith, my dear double ! you are a beauty !"
she said, with the voice of a discoverer ; " and, Christabel Gold-
smith, you are dressed charmingly, all by your own fingers ! Let
me see them! Yes, very pretty, pointed, rosy-tipped fingers.
C'handy praises them sometimes. Ah, Chandy-that makes me
sad ; he has hurt me: Herd, stop ! You've a faint soupcon of
ink on the middle digit; 'you must amend that. Now remember,
double."  She shook her finger warningly at the mirror. " What
has been done once can be done again; nay, it must, it shall-
every day ; no shirking, no hurry, no carelessness."
While still glancing curiously, almost wonderingly, at the rare
picture-the earnest face, which threw back her intense look,.
Sabrina knocked at the door. Chris, panting under a new emo-
tion, and throwing a smiling kiss to her handsome acquaintance,
took up her boquet and fan and opened it.
Sabrina, could not repress an exclamation.  "How lovely !

I

I

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S 'DAUGHTER.

635

Why Chris, darling, what strange metamorphosis have you under-
gone? You don't look the same at all !"
Chris smiled a strange smile. " I've been asleep, I think, and
am but just awakened."
Queenly §abrina gazed a moment, and then flew at her and
covered her neck and arms with kisses.
" Precious sleeping beauty ! how thankful I am that. you are
awake."
" Let us go," answered Chris with feverish impatience.
"Yes indeed, it is quite time for you to come.  Madame
frowned dreadfully when she sent me up. The two first quadrilles
are over already, besides a polka and galop."
They entered the hall: a great lofty room with heavy oaken
beams supporting the ceiling, and gathered together at the zenith
by a vast carved center-piece of fruits and flowers, and the deep
blue vault-was studded with golden stars, which glittered :in the
blaze of the chandeliers. A narrow gallery-ran around the sides,
filled with papas and mamas, who chose the lofty place for a view
of their darlings, who were floating in white muslin or doing the
amiable in black swallow-tails and white kids on the floor below
them, each having eyes for the particular treasure, and consider-
ing the rest of the fdte as accessory to him or her. Over the en-
trance was a snug box for the band, who were playing a galop,
and thirty couples or so were spinning around to the swift and
rather romping measure, walled in by triple rows of palpitating
young humanity, watching their swift twirls and eagerly panting
to join them. Zoe Walsingham, brilliant as the tropical flowers
she wore in her breast and drooping among her purple black
braids, rested her little hand on stalwart Peter's shoulder, and
chatted as she flew. - He danced as he farmed, in the best, most
exact and perfect business manner, too much 'engrossed in the
motion, and carefully keeping clear of the other dancers, (he'-hated
bumping in a ball-room,) to answer her teazing; but he never
forgot for an instant whose waist , he held. Every beat of his }
great faithful heart was for her, every look he gave her was-fond,
proud, truth; such joy and pride and love shown down at her as


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S dAUflTER.       67

made her tremble sometimes when she met the glance, and very
nearly turned the merry mocking on her lips into tender tears.
Chandos, handsome as ever ,danced with Bertha, and talked to
her, disobeying the dancing-master's instructions, "Keep your face
to, the right, always to the right, gentlemen," and they moved
easily, in swift curves, like birds flying. And Dolores! ah, I
cannot decribe her dancing,.with Peebles for her partner. And
the jar and the motion of the many feet set the lustres of the
chandeliers tinkling like fairy bells.
Sabrina and Chris paused near the door, where the full blaze
from the hundred lights, poured its flood over them. It was well
they were young and lovely, and could bear it. Many eyes
rested upon Christabel in amazement. What, great cha'ige had
passed upon her, as if to transfigure her. The habitually. bent
shoulders and dropped gaze, absently seeking the carpet, were not
there. She stood still and proud, her fine head thrown back, her
great brown eyes lighted from within, and blazing like stars; her
flexible lips compressed slightlyia brilliant scarlet glowed in her
cheeks; her lovely shoulders. and arms, rounded and filled out in
the artist life she had reveled in, showed fine and clear as satin,
without an ornament; and her wondrous hair, in rippling masses,
confined in .its classic knot, and crowned by the dear flowers she
loved; her floating, vapory muslin fell in - soft folds around her
slender shape like a fleecy cloud, dropping softly down beside the
violet mist which enveloped-Sabrina. They were not suffered to
stand long alone. Max touched Otho's arm.,
"Is not that the heroine of ' Conflicts,' the winner of many
prizes, the marvelous chantress who sat opposite at supper, in a
grey dress, as quiet and demure as a wood-pigeon ? I could'nt
keep my eyes off her; , and judge of my surprise at finding her
afterwards in the studio, (where I looked in, searching for, you,)
speaking an unknown tongue with Herr Groenveldt. . They were
adoring a Saint, I believe ; at. all events there was one on the
easel before them, and they looked serious enough for worship,"
"You mean Miss Goldsmith, I suppose," said Otho coldly.
" So she is named among mortals, I am told ; the celestials may

I

call her otherwise. She has no touch of earthliness about her
to-night.  She's beautiful! glorious!  Has she come, here to
-dance, think you? Would it be presumption to ask her?"
"I-suppose young ladies mostly oome into a ball-room to
dance," replied Otho drily, "if they have partners."
"But I am modest, fearful; does-she-look propitious?  Would
she be gracious ?"
"I haven't seen her," replied Otho, looking perversely the
wrong way.
'"Neither will you if you stare over there, unless you have
eyes in the back of your head. Here, under the first chandelier.
I did not know you were short-sighted;, you used to have an eye
like a.hawk. *Here ! take my glass."
"KThanks."  Otho pushed-the. glass aside, and said dryly, "I
have only lately discovered my misfortune; but I- think that is
. -Miss Goldsmith-and Miss Bradshaw."
"Why ! what an unenthusiastic clod you are, Otho.- You an-
nounce the fact as coolly as if you were among your dry bones ;
no fire, no passion, cool as , an anchorite. But I remember you
always used to turn up your nose at the beauties the- rest of'us
went mad over. Poor fellow ! I pity you; you have no idea how
much you lose. But you shall be useful and -present me, at any
rate. I can appreciate female loveliness ; I can adore beauty.
I'm thankful for it."  He put his hand upon Otho's arm, who
drew haughtily back.
"Excuse me, Max, I cannot trespass upon Sam's duties; here
he comes, baton and all."
" Oh yes," answered Max, hooking on to Sam at once; who was
speeding in the direction of the two as if afraid: of losing his
chance.
"Oh, the one in white," said the usher, relaxing an incipient
frown which was- beginning to contract his brows; "certainly,
with pleasure."  And the presentation being accomplished, Chris
bowed eagerly and took the offered arm, whi e Sam rand Sabrina
hurried off to seek Zoe, and secure her and Peter, Dolores and
Chandy, for sides to the Parisienne, which was the next quadrille.

A -DOW, GOLDSNiITH'S',D.AUGIITEI.

6

P,


638         wInOw ,OLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.
".Shall we. take a turn with the dancers, Miss Goldsmith ?"
asked Max, fixing his leonine eyes on his partner with undisguised
admiration..
"Oh y      she answered hurriedly; "I've lost so many al-
ready."
Max smiled at her odd manner. "Then we won't waste pre-
cious time," said he, and they went floating down the hall. They
passed so close to Otho that he caught the faint perfume of the pan-
sies in her hair; Chris felt his presence, knew that he was study-
ing her, though she did not raise her eyes. She drew her breath
quickly, and waltzed on, answering her partner's murmured talk
with gay replies, moving as if her whole soul was absorbed in the
dance. In the next revolution they made, she smiled brightly as
she neared the place where Otho stood, and had a little speech
all ready ; she meant it should be careless and light, but he was
not'there, and a pang clutched .her heart when she saw Belle
Brandon's bead on his shoulder, and she almost lying in his arms.
Belle's dancing was perhaps too voluptuous for an American girl,
more like that of those eastern beauties who are slaves. As the
blonde. fastened her steely eyes upon Chris, the poor girl faltered,
and Max led her to aseat near the window, and stood talking with
her, seeing but her in the vast hall.
He was a great stout tall fellow, with massive head and yellow
hair, and moustache, and long, silky beard, which had never been
shaven-as unlike Otho as possible; but Chris knew him well, so
much had she heard of him, his student life, his songs, his music,,
and the foot-tramps the two friends had made together. His
friendliness was pleasant to her, and his talk interested her, so
lonely and cast out from love as she felt, and she listened and re-
plied gratefully.
Let us go back a little. Belle Brandon had been busy in her
room; now she opened her door, and the distant music sounded-in
her ears.. She walked swiftly across the corridor to Mary Ann.
Williams' apartment, which she entered without the ceremony of
knocking.
The foil was sitting crouching' over the fire, her great blanket

I

I

WIDOW GOLDSMITHU'S DAUGHTER..           639
shawl about her shoulders, and her, half-shut eyes busy among
the embers. She turned slowly around, as if accustomed to intru-
sion, and too listless and unhappy to question it. Her heavy
face was swollen, and brick-color, and her eyes discolored with
weeping.
" Eh, prisoner with the chill-on, how are you enjoying your re-
tirement ? making pious use of: it, I see," glancing contemptuously
at the open Bible on the table. "How very proper ! madame
ought to come up now ; she would relent at once before the sight
of so much virtue."
I wish you would shut the door; you bring in all the cold
there is outside, just as if you wa's made of ice. My head aches;
what do you .want ?"
Belle flapped the door viciously three or four times before shut-
ting it.
"I've come for your new   muslin, dear; as you can't go to
the party I'll just wear it for you. I shall only need the skirt.
I've split out that other trumpery so that there's. nothing left of
the waist worth speaking of. I didn't think of yours, or I wouldn't
have bothered'myself."
She walked to the armoire, and took down the. dress without
waiting for a reply ; so used was Mary Ann to such inroads and
exactions, that she scarcely thought of resistance. Belle held up
the skirt before her; it was. elaborately made up of puffs and in-
sertion, very showy and handsome.
"I hope it is long enough ; only a demi-train ! Your mother is
so stingy."
" Has madame given you leave to go down to the party and
left me shut up here ? how mean of her !"
"I'm going to take leave, my dear."
"You dassen't go without permission; you ain't telling the
truth."
"What I dare not do remains to be shown to me ; but don't
agitate yourself, my dear ; 'tis all the same to you either way,
because you would have no dress to wear even if you had the
most gracious permission. Good night, my pious child; read


-0WID OW PGIDSMinIW SDAUGHiTER.

another chapter before you go to ,bed.  i give your love to the
fellows. Pity-Cabby isn't here ; then wouldn't your imprisonment
be a penance ?"
She was going off without another look at the crouching figure,
but Mary Ann sat up and said:
" Don't go yet, Belle; I want to tell you my dream."
"As if I should stay' for that!"' answered Belle, with scorn.
" You shall, then !"  She got up and seized her tyrant's dress
and held her fast, and spoke rapidly.
" I dreamed that I-was dead, and I saw the awful lake of fire
and brimstone, where the smoke of their torment ascendeth for-
ever and ever; and the horrid creatures with burning eyes were
swimming and writhing about in it, howling and cursing, and
I shuddered and, tried to get away up the steep edge of the pit
that scorched my hands, but you. was behind me, and pushed me
in among the, hideous, dreadful things, and the smoke went up
and choked me, and the snakes crawled over me, and you laughed
so loud that I awoke, and ,the sweat stood all over me.- Don't go-
there to-night, Belle; stay with me; you deserve as much as I.
I wonder if there is any such place as father talksabout in meet-
ing, and the minister preaches. 'If there is, I'm bad=enough to
go to it, and it's all along of you. - You shan't leave me alone;
I'm afraid of the stillness; it is full of hateful things. I won't
go -to bed. They say the world is coming to an end this year ; if
it does, I shall be damned."
She dropped down into a, chair,,and covered her face in her
shawl and sobbed drearily.
Belle twitched awr her dress from the girl's limp grasp, and
looked over her shoulder at the crouching figure, and felt the most
intense disgust and wonder; she did not understand any such
state of mind.s
"Well you are a precious piece of goods !" she sneered. "My
own Mary Ann, take my advice, seek your- couch, and dream
once more, and try if you 'can't get a glimpse of heaven next
time. It's just as easy, and vastly more agreeable ; only you'
need not trouble yourself to bring me into the same mansion with

640

-WIDOW- (OLDSiITU1'S- DAUGI TER.

641

you. We are informed that there are mn y, by those who pro-
fess toknow, and I shall take care to secure separate and distant
accommodations. You gorged yourself with those Dutch dump-
lings at dinner, I know as well As if I had seen you. You are
always a gross feeder, and the inferno is of your own creation."
Belle was delicate and dainty in appetite, and habitually dis-
gusted with MaryAnn's gobbling propensities.
"As for staying, you forget:that I am forbidden to communicate
with you."
She ,shut the. door, and walked away, smiling to herself at the
curious folly her foil was developing.
" So much for education.  Let me be thankful that there is no
hell in my creed, nor heaven either. This' round world is all-I
know or care about. One of the earliest of my recollections was
my uncle's fuu over all such superstitions. Spiritualism suits me
very well; 'the summer land, the seven spheres.' I mean to' be
a medium when I get time. Now I must hurry to the ball-room
and pick out my affinity."
Shut up in her -apartment, she worked nimbly, and was soon
dressed.' Her dress was not what she would have liked, but she
knew that it became. her well. . A  velvet bodice, with long laced
points, like those in the old pictures. Deborah's rich lace, ruth-
lessly snipped asunder, fell over her plump, -deeamy arms, and
adorned her rare neck and shoulders. The cape, jessamines she
wore in her curls and breast-knot, she had become surreptitiously
possessed=of while the gardener's back was turned ; and she tossed
aside the .orange flowers which the d ar old Professor had sent
her as a:sly joke.
"The time has not come for those yet," said she; "everything
in its season."
She clasped on the pearls, and after studying her dimples, flah-
ing her glances, and practicing her voluptuous figure"in a graceful
bend or two before her mirror, as a prize-fighter trieshis muscle be-
fore entering the ring, she sailed into the ball-room withas assured
a grace and as much quiet self-possession :as:if she were the hon-
ored guest instead of a culprit under sentence of imprisonment.


- There was not the .show of audacious daring on her beautiful face
,.one might have looked to see under the circumstances, but perfect
ease and joyous abandon-the: girlish pleasure which innocent
maidens take in fetes. She threaded her way up to Otho.
"One little galop, will it' please you, sir ?" said she,:as a child
begs grandpa for a sugar plum.
She did not in the least mind the cold, haughty manner of his
acceding to her request; she did .not.wishto dance 'with him for
love of him, and his feelings were of little consequence ; and so
she met Chris, and showed herself to'her, -and saw' her suffering,
and laughed merrily as she floated past her.       '
Chris had plenty of: partners, plenty of admiration; her ball
book was full in no time, and many stood' aboat'her in the pauses
of the dance, and. courted her smiles, and .listened to her Words.
The wall-flowers talked her over, after the habit of wall-flowers,
and pronounced her a flirt, without the' least claim to :beauty, all'
airs, &amp;c. The papas and mammas whose daughters were not
belles, wagged their heads solemnly over ter bold ways; they
wagged harder when Judge 'Sistaire, who was not a:dancing man,
took her on his arm and promenaded up and down the hall; 'and
the scraps, of talk they could _ catch proved that the' two had got
among the Druids. Max. came again' and again, and Chris
seemed more interesting among,'the talkers 'than the dancers.
Otho, after getting rid of Belle, mingled as little as might be
with the dancers; .but .he watched Chris whenever she moved';'
and he bit his lip and frowned at his friend Max who pursued his
acquaintance with' such absorbed eagerness. His fresh  German
ways, dashed sometimes with a painful thought 'or troublesome
memory, were very' fascinating, and' no wonder Chris gave hime
all her attention: any girl might be proud of the homage of such
a man.
Though Mr. Oth6 looked as calm as a rock, his dark cheek
flushed somewhat when Chris rose from her place in the window,
and bowing to Max, as if declining his attendance, came slowly,
-towards him alone, and his pulse beat hammer-strokes when  he
.paused in front of him and curtsied deeply

642

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAU-GIITERo*'

P

: 643

"Among, my unredeemed 'promises, Mr. Groenveldt, I remem-
ber one to dance the - Trois Temps with you' this evening. I am .
taking up all such indebtednesses, and will it please you that I-
get through this one ?"'               '
She looked quietly in his face, as if she were asking.for a pen-
cil, and with her ,hands folded over her boquet. of pansies, she
awaited his reply. He felt very angry that. she should thus break
down the wall he had chosen to build between them, and so coolly
accost him, without a tremble in her voice, or the trace of a pang
in her mobile face.
" Do you desire it, Miss Goldsmith ?"
Though.she winced a little at the strange name he gave her,
she replied:' '        '
",Certainly ; I have taken time to perfect myself in the dance,
which-I might have better employed, and I don't wish it lost,
though I regard dancing as the next silliest way of spending time
to cards; I cannot account for the' infatuation people show for
either folly."
Otho felt the hit-he prided himself upon his whist-playing.
"It were a pity you should be out of pocket by any suggestion
of mine.: You are aware, I suppose, that no one else knows the
dance."
"Perfectly; you desired me to keep .my lessons a secret, and
I have faithfully obeyed you, and have practiced your steps in
the solitude of my apartment, with locked doors."
"'Perhaps you would rather not be conspicuous.?"
Chris curled her lip scornfully. ".My objections on that score
were ruled out as idle whims- when I took the lessons, and I'do
not choose to dig them up now. The steps are to waltz music,
'and the rest of the dancers are' too much .engrossed with' their
own performances to trouble themselves about me. When I 'have
kept my word I shall forget it as fast as' Ii can, and shall certainly
never dance it again. '-I am ready, sir, at your earliestrpleasure;
I have had' hard work to keep a place in my bill book for this
old engagement."

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.


644

WIDOW -OL'SMIt1' S DAUGHGTTEER ..*

Otho knew as well as she that she was testing her power over
herself, and showing it to him.
"If you will take my arm  I will speak to the M. C., unless
you prefer remaining here alone till I return. I see that you
have not the young-ladyish dread of walking alone."
"I will go with you," she replied, ignoring the cruel ending of
his speech ; and placed the=tips of her fingers upon his coat-sleeve,
and they walked down the hall together.
The Roating River girls touched each other as she passed them,
and all the five hundred scholars, who knew her story perfectly,
how she had been openly disdained -by the man she loved, and
treated with cool neglect, not to say contempt ; how he had not
spoken one word to her since he came, and all the rest-whis--
pered and wondered to see her leaning on his arm.. She 'spoke
to her acquaintances on either hand, and answered-their talk with
apt replies, delivered in clear ringing tones, and a bright, uncloud-
ed face.
Otho glanced at her more than once, and -after a gay speech of
hers to Sari, who 'was still constant to Sabrina, (and honest Sam
always looked at his partner as if he saw heaven in her eyes,) he
took her hand in his and brought it -firmly withinhis arm, , and
straightened himself in his proud, masterful way. She seemed
not to observe the action, but suffered her =fingers to drop where
le placed them,'indifferently.
He walked twice around the great hall before he approached
the music stall. Though she only answered politely when he
addressed her,'and looked carelessly in his face' as she did so, he
felt's'ure of'her love-that 'she could never 'resist- him when he
chose: to'e persuasive and tender,; and through 'all the pleasure,
she took in having her near him; he; still keenly felt the disappoint-
ment and tnbrtification she had forced upon him.
The band struck up one ,of- Chopin's,'delicious waltzes, which
melts and mrmurs,:and glides, andswells in such bewitching
.adence. Chis andO thoehad played it'together a ;hundred times,
and -the poor child was so absolutely a creature of 'association, the
scent of a flower was a story to her, a strain of music a poem,

I

1

WIDOW GOtDSMITR'S- DAUGHTER.

;6 4

these wreathed melodies of Chopin's were a memory of her dear
love, sweet and precious, but dead now, buried out of her sight.
Her partner turned and touched her waist with-his fingers, and as
she dropped her hand upon his shoulder, his dark intense eyes,
brimming with'power, demanded love from her melting brown ones,
but she ruled hers so well that they'spoke only attention to the
waltz.
They turned and whirled to the smooth harmonies,'they floated
past the other moving figures, but she saw nobody ; she was danc-
ing with her lover for the last time; he held her hand, he would
never touch it again. Even now his heart was cold toward her-
bitter, unkind; he had said,. "nothing shall ever part. us ; IL.will
be your shield from all the world," and they were as far asunder
as the poles; for a fault which was not a crime he had turned his
back upon her.
But her calmness could not last-it must break up ; the shad-
ow of her great grief would settle down upon her face, hereyes
would get humid, and her breath come with a-sob. Unconsciously
'she tightened her, grasp upon his fingers, and the steady time-beat
of the dancers, the ripple-marked music, faded in her ears. He
saw and understood it; he felt the finger-elasp in every nerve,
but he would not pity her. " She would show me her strength ;
let her feel that it is but'weakness."
Even while he so. thought and studied her, she was rallying
her great woman's endurance once for all. A moment more and
she could leave him ; she must bow and smile, and then it would
be, over, and she would be alone. She steadied her step and held
her lips firmly pressed together ; a dozen more airy gyrals brought
them to the door of one of the dressing-rooms ; she obeyed Otho's
light" gesture and stopped, self-poised, erect, with shining, still
eyes, took the arm he offered, and-walked by his side a couple of
steps within the deserted room,:hung about with cloaks and hoods.
She, knew that he wished to speak to her, to ,give back  her
troth and take his freedom;:and she waited till he should begin,
and wondered how he would say it.


WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER. . 47

646        WIDOW GOLDSIT'S DAUGHTER.

"Chris,-my darling ! Sappho, my wife," he mastered his voice
with difficulty; but looked proud, almost stern,:and certain of his
'hold upon her. "All that has come and gone shall be as nothing,
less than nothing. I want you, I must have you. Nothing shall
separate us. , You are mine.. I will keep you forever."
She withdrew' her hand from his arm and 'forced herself to
stand cool and quiet beneath the fire of his glance, and the pas=
siolate sweetness of his voice which she'loved better than all
music.-- He ptned his arms and 'said, " come my jewel, my
pearl. I found you. I have a finder's right to you. I will wear
you in my heart, this is your home, here upon my breast.".
She glided Iaway from him in the'moonlight, still and white
and the 'quivaring beams played over her face. She-pressed both
her hands uppn her heart, and moistened her parched lips be-
fore she spolre. He frowned uneasily, and caught at the empty
air with his outstretched hands, as if life were slipping away from
'him.'
"You mistake strangely, Mr. Groenveldt," said she in a vi-
brating voice. "You mistakee strangely, sir, I belong only to
myself."
" What!" You cannot be so mad,,so wicked as to forget your
:plighted troth." '
"I forget nothing, sir. I have just fulfilled one promise I made
you. I now hasten to keep another. I told you that when the
time came that-I did not satisfy you, I would withdraw from you.
INow I- rejoice to -set you'free. You cannot feel 'more keenly, or
bewail more bitterly than I do the faults you find in me-the hab-
its which are so very distasteful to you. I shall not pain you with
them any more, because henceforth what I do or leave undone is
nothing to 'you.. lloved and trusted you, and hoped to ,make
you happy. You turned your back upon me in the presence of
many, and left me alone a mark for pointing fingers, and scornful
glances, and sharpened jests. You 'sanctioned them by your con-
duct. If I -had. been guilty of a crime, you could'nt have treated
me worse, and yet my life is clear and pure and my heart is lov-

ing. You would not even give me a friendly greeting in those.
hours we have passed under the same roof, sat at the same table."
" Stop Christabel, you wrong me there. I sought you and
could not find you. I wrote and got no reply. You know that
I am a proud man, ard havewhims; had I not a right to expect
you to regard my wishes, to keep your word with me ?"
She .waived her ha d.. "I cannot change the past, nor can you.
Be assured:I will never marry a man in whose eyes:I have read -
disgust, abhorrence.. That I have deserved it makes it no easier
to bear. Your pride shall suffer no more at my hands. Your.
fastidious taste no further outrage. What promises I make here-
after ;will concern -only myself, and I shall try to keep them.
Your mother has been. at no pains to conceal' her dislike to me.
She has been hard and cruel and unkind, and as good as told me
many-times that I was not fit to be her daughter. I did not care
so long as I-believed in you, but that foolish dream is over now.
I see that any one'of these proper misses would suit you better
than 'I. I desire to live hereafter to myself. -I shall have strength
given me to take up the duties that lie before me. One such ex-
perience will suffice. I do not want, I will not have the love of
any man.
. He stepped proudly 'towards 'her, with a haughty smile on his
lips, and took both- her hands..in alfirm clasp.
"You cannot- leave me thus,K Sappho. Indeed you shall not.:
You overrate your power. You have tested it and came 'near.
breaking down. You cannot exist in the outside world, alone.
You will faint and droop and grow chilly and sad. You need love'
as the cactus does sunshine. -You cannot unfold' or blossom.
You cannot use your powers without it. You must haveta. true
heart to sympathize with yours, a strong arm to support'you.
Besides, you are mine. You are promised, and such troth is not'
to be broken like a spider's web. I am your rightful lord. 'I
sit throned in your heart of hearts." . He smiled significantly, and
laid his hand upon her shining hair with caressing touch. "This
witnesses for me, Sappho. ;I was in your thoughts when you
twisted these lustrous coils, and the echo of my remembered words

'1


618        WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGIITER.

lingered in your ears when you knotted these bands of }rippling
satin, violet crowned. You have my flowers on your breast. You
inhale their sweetness,; they tell .you I love .you. They should
tell you that I kissed them because I knew you would touch them
with your lips. It is unjust for you to steel yourself against me
because of my displeasure. I had a right to be displeased. A
word of apology from you would have set all straight. You with-
drew in angry silence ; but that-is past. Such a trifle shall not
separate us. I will remind you of it no more. I claim my right.
Tmam a suitor to you. I beg for your hand.".
Chris looked at him. A proud suitor he seemed, with that
firm haughty mouth, and masterful determined carriage, yet when
her eyes met his, a beam of love shot forth, and an ineffable smile
stole over his face. Chris new that there was power in his man-
hood, and the steady firm strength she needed, but still she would
not yield. She was proud too. She had but to throw herself
upon his breast, and find rest and shelter. But she had not tried
her resolutions; after so many slips she -might slip again, and the'
mention of his displeasure, his right to be displeased, roused angry
thoughts. "He. wants a slave, I will not be his slave. I dare
not risk it. I should ruin his life, as well as my own." He knew
well how thorough his empire over her would be if she but yielded.
Her being must be but a.reflection of his.. With crimson cheeks
and hasty gesture she pulled the flowers from her breast and hair
and threw them on the ground.
" Sappho !" he exclaimed, and his voice vibrated, it thrilled
her, she drew away her hands..
"I am as far removed from you as though I had already taken
the.L ucadian leap.' I have just reminded you that my promise
to you was conditional. You are showing me by every word you
utter, that I cannot keep it. You vaunt your power over me.
You believe it absolute, and yet you see I am about to leave you.
Adieu, Mr.r Groenveldt, my partner waits for me."-
She passed out of his sight, and he heard her clear soft voice
in conversation with his' friend Max, as quiet as though she had
not just now shut him out of her -soul, barred the gates against

WIDOW. GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.            649
hin, and left him in outer darl'kness.  He walked like one in a
dream down the hall out at the door. On the stairs he met his
mother, who laid her hand upon his arm, thinking to do him
pleasure.
"Christabel Goldsmith is charming to-night-if one might only
always be sure of seeing her thus. , Perhaps you are right, my
son, after all. Love is mighty."
"Do not give yourself further trouble, my mother, about her
or me. Your wishes are accomplished. I am a free man. -Miss
Goldsmith has just rejected me. I am a subject for your~congrat-
ulations."  He passed down the stair-case, and left her gazing
after him with curiously mingled emotions. Pity, grief, anger,
joy.. -Her proud boy was her own again.
Belle knew perfectly well that she would be made to pay
dearly for her disobedience, but she recklessly resolved to enjoy
her pleasure to the utmost. She danced and flirted; and sur-
rounded herself with admirers. She had been in the hall an hour
'md was beginning to wonder why she did not see madame any-
where, whom she expected to. encounter long before, as on a bat-
tle-field, when she felt her arm seized in a firm grasp, and knew
instantly in whose hands she was. She whirled about, her face
cloudless, and threw an artless dimpled smile right into madame's
stern countenance.
"Is it possible that you have dared to leave your room without
permission ?"
" Oh. yes! I really could not stay, it was so dull, and do you
know I could hear the music so plainly. Every waltz, and galop,
and I got nearly frantic over it. I love gaity so much. I de-
cided to come down and felt better directly, so I threw on my
dress, and here I am. A charming party is it not, madame?. I
am enjoying it so much."
" Come away instantly, "commanded madame's threatening
voice."
",Oh!, you wish to speak to me," said Belle ,blandly. "Mr.
Zambrano will excuse me just' a moment, but. in pitydon't keep
ic long dearest madame, I am engaged ten deep
28                      .~n


-WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

She bowed gaily to her partner, and putting her arm within
that of her angry judge, she led her, instead of being led, into
the cloak room, and shutting the door, she set her back against
it.
" Now I am ready for your lecture, Madame Groenveldt."
She arranged Deborah's lace as she spoke, and admired her arms.
" You must return instantly to your apartment, Miss Brandon.
I am seriously displeased ; there is heavy reckoning in store for
you."
"Ah ! indeed ! you quite surprise me; but do you know, I shall
have to decline to obey you. I am determined to have 'my fete.
I shall not leave the hall unless I am carried out. If you attempt
to force me, I'll scream and howl, and make such a scene as will
effectually spoil your christmas party, which has cost so much
money and trouble, and is such a charming success. I know how
to keep my word so as to give your school a name, which would
be unpleasant and unprofitable. You had better leave me alone.
Where's the use of making a coil about such a trifle ?"
"Trifle ! Do you count disobedience a trifle ?  Miss Williams
has been with me. I am acquainted with the whole of your
wicked conduct. Your selfishness, and shocking, dreadful untruths.
Yes, Miss Brandon, she has told me the whole.'
"Indeed ! I wish you joy of the knowledge I am sure. It
must be quite 'an acquisition to your repertoire of curious facts,
and dear Mary Ann, I left her sadly in the doldrums.. I dare say,
she is more cheerful now that she has got rid of her tale. You
found her charming company I'll engage."
" Miss Brandon !"' said madame, gazing at her in sorrowful as-
tonishment, " what are you made of ?"
" Very nice flesh, and pure rich blood, see !"  Belle held up
her beautiful arm before madame. "I've been studying physiol-
ogy, but have'nt time to go into detail."
" Go to your room, shameless girl."
" No madame, I cannot oblige you thus far, I've given you my-
reasons. I consider them good ones. Of course I shall be sent
home, but I assure-you I shan't mind that in the least. I'm heart-

6500

i

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.,
ily tired of this humdrum place, and Ishall force my aunt touring
me out into society.. She'll have to do it as her only chanced to
get rid of me, and I'll not take up with any old Soapfut either.
My aunt hates me because I am young and handsome ; old women
always hate young ones, you know, Madame, and I am an ex=
pense and a burden."
"I shall expel you publicly," said madame, with crushing dig-
nity.
" As you please about that. I would'nt if I were you. The
eclat of such a thing'-won't add any to the reputation of your
school. Parents would be shy of placing their tender darlings
where such a wolf had been. There might be more of the. same
breed you know, so all your virtuous indignation wouldbe lastedd,
besides being exceedingly unprofitable. You had better let me
go quietly without any fuss. It won't matter much to me either
way, because I shall forget all about this little out of the way
corner as soon as I turn my back upon it; and take my proper
place in the world."      -
" Such dreadful wickedness under such a mask !" ejaculated
madame, surprised out of herself, by Belle's audacious coolness.
"Curious study, isn't it ? You will believe more' strongly in
total depravity than ever, won't you? There is nothing in the
doctrine, however. If you bring me to book; I'll deny everything.
You' have. no proof against me, and I'll throw the whole' upon
Mary Ann Williams. If she is senthome in disgrace, her mother
will make the. place an inferno to her, and serve herright:for being
such a ca't's-paw. She's half frightened to death now by her's-
perstition, which she calls 'conviction of sin.' Poor fool! The
moments are passing, Madame, I advise you to think over what I
have said. Of course I can't hinder your tadung your own course;
but I have advised you, and since I am to pay dearly for my
party of pleasure, please don't. be so cruel as to defraud me 'of a
moment of it. One dance has finished while we have been en-
joying this delightful" interview.  Au revoir, dearest Madame
Groenveldt, I really must delay no longer'
She opened the, door and glided through, and left madame too


652       WIDoW - GOEDSMITH'S DAtGHTEWS

thoroughly thunderstruck to recall -her, and she took her place in
the set,:withradiant cormposure beautiful to behold.
Many times in the evening Chris had found herself" near to
Chandy in the pauses of the dancing, and upon each s tch meet-
ing, a troubled cloud fell over his careless gaiety while he studied
her face. Once he seized her. hands as if about to question her,
but was interrupted before his intention found voice. After a
quadrille, when he had been opposite to her, he drew her away
into a corner.
"!Chris, you are :unhappy ! all this brilliant talk does not de-
ceive me.. Your firm lips say, 'I will not betray my trouble,' but
your eyes are all the while ready to brim over, and they ask for
sympathy in spite of you. Have any of the fellows dared to
trample on your little felinks ? Just name them, and by the
Sabre de mon Pere, I'll have coffee and pistols across the table."
Chris had battled so successfully with her emotions, that anger
against this happy-go-lucky fellow had no longer any place among
them. She tried to consider the caricature a good, well-meant
joke, " rather hard," she thought, smiling grimly at him while he
talked.
"I think I thank you, Chandos; indeed, Iam sure I do. The
lesson was a bitter one;. but I dare say nothing less would have
answered, I was so nearly incorrigible. It was hard but honest,
as you are so fond of saying. Horrible slang ! I wish you would
not use it.: You kindly meant to give me a rouser, which should
so effectually break up my trance that I should never fall asleep
again. Look at me ! I am fully awake, am I not? Examine
my dress ! i there a pin wanting ? Look at my hair ! is it not
elaborately arranged?  Now Chandy dear, I'm going to be good.
Try to love your only, sister and forget all the annoyance, and'
mortifications she has made you suffer. Belle Brandon says I
make you writhe sometimes. I suppose it is true, but I did'nt
mean to ; I won't any more. I have been a great trial to all who
care for me, with my careless ways ; but I think perhaps if I had
had a little mother-love, real mother care, I might-, but I don't
know. We've one strong cord to bind us together, at any rate,

a

haven't we ?  Papa's love. We are his only children ; he prayed
for us and blessed us both, that night. I feel sure he loves us
still. I don't believe heavenly joys could blot out dear papa's
tenderness."
Just then Max came and claimed Chris' hand for the "Prince
Imperial," which was forming ; and it was time, for she was about
to break down and cry. After she had gone, Chandy stood run-
ning his fingers through his hair, oblivious of his white kids, and
gazing after'her retreating figure in whimsical bewilderment.

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER'.        -UJLo
3


WIDOW. GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.      655

CN5APTER       FORTY-SIXTH.-'
CHANDOS' GOOD-BYE.
THE fete was over, and Chris alone in her room. A knock at
the door, and Chandos enters, both hands out and a funny smile
on his face. He takes Chris' gloved fingers in his and seats her
close by him on the sofa.
"I suppose it is allowable for a fellow to put his arm around
you, Chris, when the fellow happens to be your brother ?"
"hYou must have plenty of -sisters," replied Chris. "I wonder
the girls don't box your ears sometimes for your amazing impu-
dence; but we all know there's no harm in you, and you are a
handsome boy, Chandy. I am very proud of you."
u",Ye'es, so they tell me. But, Chris, we'll consider that sub-
ject exhausted. There's no use beating about the bush; let's
have it out now. I've been wandering in a labyrinth that beats
fair Rosamond's all to chalk, without a thread of a clue. I hate
mysteries."
"I don't wish to make any mysteries, I'm sure."
"Very well, then; just explain your crooked talk this evening.
I can't make head or tail of it. I haven't tried to play teacher,
to give you hard lessons, bitter tasks, have I? What in thunder
did you mean ?"
For answer Chris brought out the sketch and placed it in his
hands. "I have forgiven it, Chandos. I assure you I am not in
the least offended now," said she, wishing to spare his feelings.
"I was dreadfully hurt at first. I really thought I could never
love you any more; ;but I know you meant well."
(654)1

Chandy, who had not caught much of her speech, so amused
was he with the graphic picture, interrupted her by a hearty-
laugh.
" Clever, is'nt it?"
"Very," replied Chris drily.
"By Jove ! as pointed as a Cruikshank!" going off into an-
other burst. " The eyes in fine frenzy rolling, and the hair ! oh,
Chris, what a guy !"
Chris colored indignantly. " How nice to have such a vivid
appreciation of one's own productions," she said with flashing
eyes. "And it was well judged of you to refine your cruelty by
using the kack of the picture you made when-when you was
kind and I was happy, in your sick-room, where you never got a
drink of water that I did'nt give .you. If you go to stab a friend,
always choose the tenderest spot, and use a sharp weapon."
Chandos looked at her blazing eyes, and listened to the angry
words she poured out, and stopped laughing.
"And so, Miss Goldsmith, you have been crediting me with
this admirable performance," he began, By this time he had
turned the cardboard over in his fingers,'and he gave a start of
unmistakable astonishment..
" What the deuce is this ? Why, Chris ! it is your head that I
offered to color for Otho. Do you remember how he looked ?"
" Perfectly-! I have .a disagreeable trick of remembering.
You added your autograph to give it stamp and value," said Chris,
curling her lip at what she considered ungenerous trifling.
"My hen's tracks, certainly, no denying them, though I never
saw them before. I wonder if I am a painting-medium."  Chan-
dy fell to caressing his chin musingly. "I smell a monstrous
mice, Chris ! Nobody ever saw this picture of you except Sa-
brina Bradshaw and Belle Brandon. I was vain fool enough to
bring my portfolio down into the parlor one evening at Belle's
earnest request. She longed to see my crayon heads; .she 'wor-
shiped genius-so interested in Art'-foxy little imp ! and I dis-
played all my drawings, and got deliciously buttered. I remem-
ber it well, and what a pleasant evening we had; and we sang


656

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

glees, 'In the lonely vale of streams' for one, I remember. Sa-
brina is out of the question.' You don't suppose Otho-.-, he
might wish to give you the lesson you attributed to me, you
know.."
Chris made a hasty gesture of denial. " Certainly not," said
she decidedly ; "he would despise such an action."
Oh, of course ; and yet you thought me capable of it. Thank
you; but you need'nt try to fix it up ;" he waved her off. 4"Now
the question is, how the mischief did that girl get my sketch?
She must have buggled it out of my room. Should'nt I have
liked to catch her there ! I'd have turned the key and kept her
till she went down on her knees and begged for mercy. I've got
it, Chris ! I've got it all!- Miss Filer brought me a handkerchief
this morning much ink-stained, and she said, with 'a queer -look,
that Miss Brandon had been wiping up her ink with my property,
and added, 'she said she found it in the parlor.' Now somebody
spilled my i'_k. I thought it was Nobby; he's always knocking
over things ; and I had to hand in my Latin prose in pencil, and
Prof. Noble got in a great wax about it. I've a big mind to stay
at home. Believe I had rather pay her off handsomely than to
see Paris."
"'Dear Chandy, never mind her ; her reward is sure to come.
Let her go ; I don't care in the least now that I know you had no
hand in it; and I'll con well the'lesson she gave me, and profit
by it. But you are mistaken in supposing that no one saw the
sketch, for Belle called all the graduates into the music-room,
where I was practicing, and exhibited it, and commented upon
the respective merits of the two, and showed them your name
beneath. If she had come an hour sooner I should have raged ;
but as it was, I went quietly on with my symphony. I had had
'a comforter-papa's FRIEND. I was weary and heavy-laden." I
let her say her say without turning round." -
-"Why did you not seize it and carry it away, and hide it out
of their sight-burn it up, tear it in bits ?"
"I would not. I thought if my brother desired to give me a

1

I

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.

657

lesson, I would not shirk it. It was bitter though  I've such1 a
temper, Chandy ; I had to clinch my teeth tight' together."
" Chris, I should not think you could be so unjust to- me. I'm a
heedless fellow, I know ; but I don't think I've such a bad heart.
Here I am going away to-morrow morning-this morning rather,
and you would have let me depart with this between us, for you
to brood over as you do brood over things! I call that cruelty
to animals, myself!"
"Chandos !" burst out Chris, rushing at him and putting both
arms'around him, "I'll never suspect you again; and ;the next
time I am angry with you I'll be sure that you deserve it. We'll
be good friends from this out, won't we?"
"I should say so, rather," replied Chandos coolly, feeling of
his crushed collar. "I did'nt think much about you- for a good
while, more fool I; but I do assure you you haven't a warmC
admirer on your list than Chandos Goldsmith."
" Thank you, Chandy ; that is so kind of you, and I'll let you
into a secret that I know will please you. I've turned over a new
leaf I'm going to be a particular lady. I'm going to have a
couple of places for everything, so as to be sure of finding what
I want. Truly, I am. Now you will love me, dear, won't you?"
" Why, Chris, won't it be dangerous to get rid of your only
fault ? I've had no end of compliments about you this evening,
and apropos, I want to speak to you, in fact I must speak "
" Yes, Chandy."
"You and Otho are still intending to trot in harness together,
I suppose. It is a delicate thing to touch, even for a brother, and
you are so shy with all your feelings ; but I can't go away without
a word or two. In fact I don't feel satisfied with some things I've
heard and seen since he got back. He is a fine fellow, and he
saved my life ; but if my sister-"
"'Don't, Chandos dear," said' Chris, growing pale and sinking
back. "That episode is over  I have returned to the epic. I
have lost a lover and have gained an experience. It won't kill
me   I'm going to be a home inissionary, old maid, you know.
I'll nurse your babies one of these days,- and live with you and

0

I


. 1658       sWIJ0     omoSaM  's DAUomTn.
betAunt Chirisay. Don'task me any questions," she added hur-
riedly. "It is of no use to-talk about it. It is all over, and
finished' She put her hand over his mouth. "Dear brother,
cannot bear it."
Chandy feltsheretremble, and noticed the look of deep suffering
inher pale face,and took her in his arms with a protecting love
which well, became his handsome youth."
"kMy own sister, darling girl; you shall be anything you like;
keep your secret, only if;that Otho--"
" Hush ! you are on forbidden ground. Good night, or rather
good morning ; you go on the-early train, I suppose ; I'll just lie
down and shut my eyes a little, and come to breakfast, and see
you off. I almost wish I was going with you."
Come, then ! you shall! I'll wait a week and take you."
"Good boy; don't talk nonsense. You know I should not be
allowed to go; your eloquence could not compass that. No, dear,
I've won the Art Scholarship;-I'm going to stay here and use it
--that is what I have to do. I've got through a great deal of
thinking Athe last thirty-six hours; I feel ever so old, Chandy.
I'l be ateacher; I must have an object in life. . I think I - have
a gift to teach; I'll be a Filer.", She smiled, a ghost of a smile'
But Chris,. won't your life here in madame's house be uncom-
fortable in the present changed aspect of affairs?  Would you
not rather remove to some other school ?"
"No, good thoughtful Chandos; how kind and manly you can
be! I shall try to ignore all the unpleasantness, if there is any
and devote myself to my work. The teachers are thorough, and
Herr Groenveldt like dear papa to me in kindness and careful
training ; and Chandy, he is a true christian. I should not be al-
lowed to change schools if I wished it ever'so much; as it is, I
am supporting myself. I shall have my clothing, because I shall
desire Madame to provide it,-and if any fuss is reade about the
bills, I'll pay back the money out of my salary when I teach.'I
know quite well that when I come of age I shall have plenty of
money;; papa read me his will, though I never told it before
and my brother, let'syou and Ido some good with our money."

WIDOW GOLDSMITn's DAUGHTER.              659
"cOh Chris," broke in Chandy, "what a clever, wonderful girl
you are."
Am  I ?" she answered, drearily; "only you keep to that impres-
son till I get to be Aunt Chrissy, and your. home missionary ;
and now good-bye, precious brother ; I believe I anm tired."
",Don't get up, Chris, to see me off. Good-bye; I'll write
every week and tell you all the larks. Sam and I are going to
learn the ropes, so as to take you and Sabrina over when you are
ready."
"Oh yes, that will be nice ; how fresh your face is ! not fagged
at all. Good-bye, pretty boy, good-bye."
She put him gently from the room, and sat down before the
window, and rested her head wearily upon her hand. The forced
calmness, the strength she had too hardly used, forsook her, the
forged smiles left her face, and a heavy stillness took possession
of her. She felt the air oppressive, and raised the sash; the cold
night wind swept over her, she pushed back her hair and let it
cool her cheek; as she did so, she touched a withered pansy caught
in the Sappho knot; she took it out, kissed it softly, and. dropped
it out into the darkness, with one little sob. Her emotions were
exhausted ; she could not think or feel any more.

rrl n


CHAPTER FORTY-SEVENTH.
FILER COME'S OUT STRONG.
THE cold grey of the morning crept up in the east, and still
Chris sat before the open window. She heard through a blurr,
stirring in the coach house, and the stamping of the horses in
their stalls; then Mike's lantern made a round spot of traveling
light on her ceiling as he moved about the yard harnessing his
team, and then the-sleighs drew up before the door, which were
to take the passengers to the early train. The heavy thug of the
trunks thrown upon the tressles reached her, and then Mike
stamped up and down, threshing his arms for warmth, and blew
his -fingers. Then came footsteps over.the crisp snow, and a voice
she knew spoke, and was. answered by another'; they conversed
in German, and a whiff of their cigar smoke blew over her face.
Her lips quivered, and a couple of tears filtered through her
closed lids, and she knew that Otho.was gone. The adieus and
last words reached her;" Bertha's voiceand Madame's, and the
dear:old Professor. The bells tinkled merrily, Mike sung out to
his horses, they passed through the great gate, and the hall door
clanged after the Groenveldts, who shared together their love and
their sorrow. Chris might have seen the outlined form of her
lover by stooping forward, but she had let him go without a look.
She knew that Chandy .and Sam were about departing; she
wished to descend and see then off; she dimly felt an obligation
to do so, and tried to rise to call to them, and did stagger to her
feet, and then fell senseless to the floor, and forgot everything--
hope, fear, sorrow, suffering, were all hushed within her. The
wing of the death-angel brushed her forehead, and the chill of his
dread presence wrapped her about.
(660)

a

Rosenbloom was full of the bustle of departures. Of course
all discipline was suspended ; breakfasts were swallowed hurried-
ly, and no account made of.absentees. The teachers were as
eager to be gone as any, and appetized beforehand the warm wel-
comes waiting for them by the home hearths,"and their'brief time
of relaxation and rest. Only poor old Filer, she had no friends,
she was to remain, and had no end of copy-books to rank aid
themes to correct before next term-her work was never done.
Chris was not invited home, but told to stay till she got done.
with it. Chandy softened the message somewhat, but as Chris
happened to be looking over his shoulder while he read his letter,
(the widow never wrote to Chris,) his kindness went for nothing.
Belle would have had to stay but for an invitation she had se-
cured from the Zambranos to spend the vacation at their hotel.
Dolores adored her dear Belle, and as for the dark-browed broth-
er, he worshiped- her all day, and dreamed of her all night; but
there was a slight hitch in Belle's arrangements, since, Madame
,had decided to keep her and send for her uncle.
Ten o'clock struck, and Sabrina and Zoe burst into Chris's
room in their traveling dresses. They were going in the noon
train,, and were impatient of her long slumbers; they must talk
over the fete, and tell Chris how"wondrously lovely she had been,
and how proud they were of her, and kiss her a'dear good-bye;
but they must teaze and scold her a little first, she was so lazy.
"'As the door on his hinges, so she on her bed,' began Zoe, in
a high keyed voice. She stopped suddenly, and the two stared
in affright at Chris lying beneath the open window, still and irre-
sponsive. Her white face was upturned to the cold wind, which
fluttered her thin robe, and played with her loosened hair; her
arms were tossed over her head, and no breath came through her
ashy lips, drawn tightly across her- teeth, and her wide-open eyes
stared at vacancy.  They stooped over her an instant, with
~ hushed breath, and then Zoe darted away in search of help.
Oddly enough her first impulse was to run~ to the studio, and
rouse the dear -old Professor. Hie came, making great strides,
his ample 'dressing-gown floating out behind him, ad the tassel

1

I

WIDOW GOLDSMITH' S DAVGIITER.    661


WIDOW GOLDS3MITH'S DAUGHTER.

of his°smioking-cap vibrating wildly, took the unconscious girl up
in hisarms, and placed hey tenderly on the bed. While: hewas
feeling at her wrist, andholding up a mirror to her lips, watching
anxiously-for the cloud he hoped to see on its surface, Filer
came tearig in; her first move was to drag down the sash..
" Enough 'to kill a pig ! this room is ! as cold as Greenland !"
said she. "I should suppose common ,sense would have shut the
window the first thing. Got, a fit, with too much pleasure last
night, I expect'; danced herself to death ! Bless my soul! she's
as cold as a corpse ! Run instantly, somebody ! bring some hot
water! have a fire kindled. Miss Bradshaw, here, take out these
pins and things, and we'll give her a hot bath. What could the
child have been about with that window open ?"
Fortunately there were a score or two of doctors in the house,
and one was quickly brought ; but it was a weary time before life
came -back. They had nearly settled to the belief that the soul
had fled, and then it was only breathing with just the shadow of
thoughts.,
Sabrina and Zoe stopped till evening, and then took leave with
many tears. Madame negatived Miss Bradshaw's proposal to
stay and- nurse her friend, and .she left her most unwillingly.
Chris opened her eyes at their voices, and kissed them softly; and
a faint sigh came up from her breast as she wearily closed them
again,
She was tenderly cared for. The dear old Professor and Filer
shared the duties of the sick room, and she took-what they offered
her, and would lie for hours holding the dear old Professor's
hand, who sometimes vainly goggled his eyes open, and tossed his
grey hair frightfully, in his efforts to keep awake. When Mad-
aime'came to her bed, she turned her face as: far away from her
as she could, and her brows contracted, and her mouth drooped.
But -she would put both arms around dreary old Filer, and fall
fast asleep on her breast. Poor patient Filer, who was never
snappish, never weary; who couldn't do enough for the invalid,
and whpse face got more, peaked and her nose redder with her
night-watchings, and who wiped her eyes and sobbed when listen-.

662-

4

r.

ing to the sorrowful revelations the child made in her  urmured
talk, when her mind wandered; and she shook her fists indignantly
at some invisible person, when Chris lived over her night in the
cellar, and begged and prayed to be released : and she hugged her
up tenderly, and soothed her with a hymn-she sang, actually!
Filer sang to Chris, and she liked it! She put up her poor fevered
lips and kissed her, and dropped off into a smiling slumber.
Though she and Herr Groenveldt exchanged no words on the
subject, they knew perfectly why their charge fastened such im-
ploring eyes on them when they talked about sending for her
mother; and when Madame insisted, the Professor put her down
quietly and so effectually as showed that he was capable of gov-
erning when he chose to take the reins.
And the days wore on, and term-time came again, before our
Chris could sit up in her rocking-chair, and eat the toast Filer
brought, and the little slices of Winter NelJis which the dear old
Professor shaved into wafers and put into her mouth. One
day he brought her some pansies among her flowers, and he never
forgot the look she gave him, nor the flood of tears which fol-
lowed; but it did her good, for she fell asleep, sobbing like a
grieved child, and awoke stronger and better.
There was another sick girl at Rosenbloom: Mary Ann Wil-
liams was down with a fever, typhoid, the doctor said ; but her
father and mother came and fetched her away on a bed, to nurse
at home, and she left a kiss and her dear love for Chris, both
which she sent by Filer. " Her good, precious Filer, who had
been such a tender friend to her," she said.
Belle Brandon went off with flying colors. She managed
Madame so well that her uncle was not sent for, nor was she dis-
graced; she so glozed over her sins that that dignitary nearly
doubted the evidence of her own senses, and the Zambranos car-
ried her off with them as a treasure to be carefully watched-a
goddess to be worshipped.
She left a written confession of her part in Ruth. Blair's mis-
ery ; she found she could not get off without. Herr Groenveldt
insisted upon that act of justice--and al: o the rough sketches; but

'663

WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGI-ITER.


WIDOW GOLDSMITh'S DAIUGBTER.

Madame almost believed' her when she opened her blue eyes in
childish innocence and protested that she meant only a little joke.
She todk-gushing leave of' all the people in the house she thought
worth-it;,and especial delight in kissing Herr Groenveldt on both
cheeks, because she saw that he did not wish to have her; and
looked bewitchingly' beautiful in her grey suit when she took
Henrique Zambrano's arm, and turned her back upon hei school
life forever.
When, in her first leisure, Madame sat down to write to Ruth
Blair, intending to inclose the confessions in her letter, they were
nowhere to be found, though heriwriting desk was locked, and
she wore the key upon her watch-chain.
Now, kind reader, if you are weary of us, I will bid you adieu
with my blessing; and you may marry or bury, or otherwise dis-
pose of Widow Golksmith's Daughter - and her friends, as you
like ; but if, as I hope, you feel a human interest in them, and
will give us the pleasure of your delightful society, we will take
a spring trip, when the maple-wings are flying, and the pansies
open their eyes, to Roaring River and Rosenbloom-and so, a
kind good-night.
JULIE P. SMITH.

0

664


  
             
         
       
   
