
    ----CITATION----
        McKeever, Harriet B. (1807-1886). The House on the Heights .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7165
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE House on the Heights. 
             
            BY HARRIET B. McKEEVER, AUTHOR OF "SILVER THREADS," "WESTBROOK PARSONAGE," "MAUDE AND MIRIAM," "TWICE CROWNED," ETC. 
            
               H. N. McKINNEY & CO., 
               NO. 16 NORTH SEVENTH STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by H. N. McKINNEY & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
            
               Stereotyped and Printed by the Inquirer Printing and Publishing Company, 
               Lancaster, Pa.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               I. GERMAN VESPERS. 5
                
               II. THE QUEEN BEE. 15
                
               III. APPLE BLOSSOMS. 25
                
               IV. IN THE CLOISTERS. 32
                
               V. HUNTING FOR FAIRIES. 40
                
               VI. FRAULEIN PETERKIN. 50
                
               VII. THE BEE HIVE. 57
                
               VIII. THE VINTAGE. 64
                
               IX. THE CONFIRMATION. 74
                
               X. THE BETROTHAL. 82
                
               XI. THE PLAGUE SPOT. 90
                
               XII. MAGDALENA'S SECRET. 99
                
               XIII. CHRISTMAS EVE. 109
                
               XIV. THE BROKEN LILY. 119
                
               XV. MUTTER'S GEBERTSTAG. 131
                
               XVI. ON THE ALPS. 141
                
               XVII. THE GRAND ORATORIO. 150
                
               XVIII. AUNT MARGARETHE. 160
                
               XIX. GROSSMUTTER'S WAKING DREAM. 168
                
               XX. THE GOLDEN WEDDING. 176
                
               XXI. HOME-SICKNESS. 183
                
               XXII. TIDINGS FROM VATERLAND. 192
                
               XXIII. THE ISLAND OF CALYPSO. 198
                
               XXIV. THE LISTENERS. 207
                
               XXV. FRITZ AND THEKLA. 215
                
               XXVI. ASPIRATIONS. 225
                
               XXVII. WITHOUT AN ANCHOR. 237
                
                
               XXVIII. THOU AND THINE. 253
                
               XXIX. A STIR IN THE BEE HIVE. 264
                
               XXX. WILLKOMMEN. 276
                
               XXXI. SUNSHINE AND SHADOW. 285
                
               XXXII. SEED THOUGHTS. 299
                
               XXXIII. HEALING. 309
                
               XXXIV. THE WHITE FAWN. 323
                
               XXXV. THE CHIMES. 333
                
               XXXVI. THE KINTERGARTEN. 346
                
               XXXVII. CROWNED A QUEEN. 355
                
               XXXVIII. THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN. 366
                
             
          
       
      
         
            The house on the heights 
             
                
               CHAPTER I. 
               GERMAN VESPERS. 
               CHARMING for situation, renowned in the pages of history, as the ancient fortress of the old Palatines, Heidelberg stands in its beauty in a valley of the Neckar, the Odenwald on one side, crowned with vineyards, yielding their annual harvest of rich fruit. The city is built upon heights, above which rises the wooded Kaiserstahl, midway down whose sides hangs the massive bastions, terraces, and roofless halls of the old feudal castle; masses of dark green ivy wave gracefully from its arches, and overrun the quaint sculpture of its ancient walls, the foliage of its gardens visible behind. A faint yellow glow trembles over the birches and pines on the top of the mountain, and a clear blue tint reveals the distant hills up the Neckar. The peasant girls, in the costume of three hundred years ago, with baskets on their heads, laden with clothes from the periodical washing of the Germans by the river's brink, come tripping along, gaily talking to each other on their way down the hills. Careless students, with their flowing locks, and pipe in hand, saunter along the banks of the river, listening to the sweet evening choruses uses, ringing first in the belfries of the city, taken up like an echo from village to village among the hills. Sweet German vespers! what answer is given in those German hearts? Not what Luther would desire for his children in these days of rationalism. 
               The scenery, from its broad contrasts, has all the charm of variety, with its wild features of majestic grandeur and cultivated pastoral life; its ancient fortress of strength reminding one of the fierce days when men slept in armor, when woman dare not venture abroad without her guardsman. 
               Opposite to the city rises the Heilegenberg, the lower part rich with vineyards, cottages em bosomed in the thick shrubbery, groups of maidens under the grape-vines, fishermen gliding over the placid river, singing their sweet German songs, or inspired by the low musical murmuring of the stream, calling up the romantic legends of the knightly times, pointing with their fingers to the very spot where these wild romances were really acted; so say the German fishermen. 
               Half way up the Heilegenberg runs a beautiful walk, dividing the vineyard from the dark forest above, called the Philosopher's Way, the favorite ramble of the professors of the University. 
               Our story opens on the evening of the Grand Duke's birthday, the cannon firing a closing salute, crashing from hill to hill, far away into the Odenwald. The sun is sinking behind the mountains, the shadows creeping slowly up the side of the Kaiserstahl, chasing the golden light to the very top, until fading away, twilight darkens the valley, and a mantle of mist hangs over the lovely river. On one of these heights overlooking the river, stands a German home, a house with balconies all around, giving marks of several additions as the family increased; the back part looking out upon an orchard of fine fruit trees, the front upon the placid river. 
               Professor von Rosenmuller and his little wife are standing on the balcony: he, in cap, wrapper and slippers, with his favorite meerschaum; she, a plump little figure, in her housewife's dress, with clear blue eyes, light hair, her bright, genial smile compensating for the absence of physical beauty. They are talking about the children, who are rambling, some in the orchard, others on the banks of the river, watching a boat just coming in, rowed by a youth of twenty, his companion a child of fourteen years. Fritz, one of the younger boys, and Gretchen, a girl of twelve, a companion in all his mischievous pranks, are standing on the shore, and just as Conrad was bringing in the boat they sprang in; Fritz with his oar pulling out lustily into the river, Bertha giving a faint scream as the boat tilted on one side, Conrad calling out impatiently to the boy: 
               "Will you never learn wisdom, Fritz? Don't you see how near we were to being upset?" 
               "But here we are all safe, bruder mein," was the gay reply, as he rowed along singing a merry boat-song, Gretchen joining in the chorus: 
                  
                      
                        Row the boat, row the boat 
                        We are merry as we row, 
                        Row the boat, row the boat, 
                        Singing as we go. 
                        Row the boat, row the boat, 
                        None so happy now as we, 
                        Row the boat, row the boat, 
                        O, for the bounding sea! 
                     
                  
                
               After a ride of a mile, they were content to return. Fritz jumped out first, seizing Gretchen's hand, and racing with her up the hill, while Conrad more gently helped out his young companion, and hand in hand, they slowly mounted the height. The chimes of the vesper bell caught Bertha's fancy, and she stood awhile listening to the sweet echoes, as they came pealing over the waters, dying away on the hills. She was a fair girl, thoughtful beyond her years, with deep blue eyes, full of the soul's beauty, a profusion of light curly hair, and a figure that, in its airy grace, was just then a sweet picture; and so thought Conrad, as he stood gazing at his unconscious little cousin. 
               "Listen, Conrad," said the child, "how they seem to call us- 
                      
                        Day is dying, come away, 
                        Day is dying, stop and pray." 
                     
                  
                
               "Not that kind of praying, Bertha, I hope," was the reply. 
               "No, indeed, Conrad, the Ave Marias are very sweet, but I could not join them while I have the gospel." 
               "Yours are pretty fancies, Bertha, and I would not disturb them; but we know better up there pointing in the direction of the university. 
               "They are not fancies, Conrad; the story of the dear Christ-child, and the boy of Nazareth; the preacher on the mountain of such beautiful sermons and everything that followed-everything is just as true as that we stand here, just as strong as those grand mountains, Conrad." 
               "How do you know, little cousin?" said Conrad with a proud look of unbelief. 
               "I know it here, Conrad," said the child, pointing to her head, "the love that I feel to that dear Saviour, the trust and peace can only come from heaven, cousin, and it is the gospel that brings it to me, so I hold it fast. I wish that the vesper bells would speak thus to you." 
               They were now at the top of the hill, and coming into the orchard, they passed Ernest, the brother next to Conrad, seated under a tree, paper in hand penciling down his thoughts, waving his hand to the two, and blushing deeply, as Conrad called out. 
               "Dreaming still, boy; what now, Ernest?" 
               In another part of the orchard Fritz and Gretchen were in a high game of romps with the old house-dog, and Thekla, a girl of seventeen, seated under a tree by herself, in deep thought. 
               "That is a lovely girl," said the little mother, as led by Conrad, Bertha came in sight. 
               "Yes, Mina, and I cannot think of the day when we must lose her, without pain." 
                
               "Only one year more," was the reply, "and she is as dear to me as my own children; her quiet influence is so good among the children, it is wonderful to see how she leads the, elder boys; there is the one that gives me most anxiety," continued the mother, pointing to Thekla, "she is the only child whose word I cannot trust. Fritz and Gretchen are wild as mountain goats, but they are not false." 
               "It is a great fault, Mina," replied the Professor, "Magdalena's pride is not so alarming, for time and discipline will mellow that." 
               The vesper bells had died away, the sun had gone quite down, and the deep shadows of evening had settled over the landscape. 
               The Professor and his wife entered the house, and in a few minutes father's music called one by one the party in, for this was the hour when they enjoyed, their family concert. 
               Grandfather and Grandmother Haller, seated in their arm chairs side by side, hand in hand, were waiting for the music, both crowned with silver hair, and looking as if they were expecting at any time the Master's call. In their declining days, they enjoyed the repose of their daughter's house, the old lady knitting, and helping with the mending, when it suited her; he, working in the garden, smoking or reading, as suited his convenience, or helping in the patch of a vineyard that the Professor owns on Heilegenberg. They are pious Lutherans, grandmother's stories invaluable in the domestic training of the children. 
                
               Magda is seated near her mother, very different in appearance from the rest, for she has a pale face, with dark, thoughtful eyes, and glossy black hair lying in heavy folds around her well-formed head. A look of reserve rests upon her quiet features, but Magda is a great comfort to her mother-she is twenty now-and the good lady is growing uneasy concerning the frequent visits of Leopold Von Doren, a young German officer. 
               Meta, a crippled child of six, sits by grandmother's side, leaning her head upon the old lady's lap. The children are gathered around the piano, Conrad with his violin, Ernest with his clarionet, Fritz with his flute, and the girls with their sweet voices, making charming music, which the old people enjoy, calling for their favorite songs, some of Luther's good old hymns closing the performance, But Conrad is leading Bertha to the piano, calling for some of his favorite songs. 
               She had a wonderful talent for music, and a voice of surpassing strength and sweetness, and always ready to give pleasure, she kept on singing her charming melodies until, at the close running her fingers over the keys, she produced in all their beauty, as it were almost unconsciously, the vesper bells which they had just heard, singing the words that she had repeated to Conrad: 
                      
                        Day is dying, come away, 
                        Day is dying, stop and pray; 
                        Day is dying, light has come, 
                        Leading to our heavenly home. 
                     
                  
                
                
               Sweet and soft ringing the vesper bells on the piano, all listening in expressive silence, broken at length by the Professor: 
               "Well done, little one!" 
               No wonder that they all loved the gentle girl, and looked forward with sadness to the time so fast approaching, when Bertha must say farewell for three years. 
               Bertha von Eckendorf, the only child of a departed sister, was left by her dying mother in charge of Aunt Wilhelmina, and a tender mother had she been to the orphan child. The Baron, her father, was a man of rank and wealth, having a summer home on the Rhine, passing his winters in Berlin. Dying when Bertha was quite young, he left a will, providing that his motherless child should remain with Aunt Wilhelmina until old enough to complete her education at Bethlehem, under the care of Aunt Margarethe, her father's sister, to stay three years, when, on her return, she was to make choice of a home with either Madame von Ingolstadt, living in style at Berlin, or to remain with Madame von Rosenmuller at the House on the Heights. The choice not to be made, however, until she had spent one year with her aunt in Berlin, the father desiring, not commanding, the choice of a home with one who would keep up the family state. 
               Bertha knew nothing of this arrangement as yet, but lived with Aunt Mina and her family as though she were indeed one of their own children, the thought of parting never having crossed her loving heart. 
               A close student of the Bible, she had imbibed at an early age the blessed spirit of the Master; in her sweet young life so humbly and yet so truly living the Christ life in her childhood's home; and so it came, that Bertha was the oracle of the youthful congress that sometimes met in the orchard, to discuss the right and wrong of certain things that were practiced among the young ones 
               Fritz and Gretchen were frequently the parties complained of, the dispute generally ending with the words: 
               "Let us call Bertha; she knows, and she is never cross." 
               It was seldom that the young girl failed in her office as mediator. 
               She had received the sweet benediction, in its fullest sense, which declares 
               "Blessed are the peace-makers, for they shall be called the children of God." 
               Many an hour do we find the young girl listening to Grandmother Haller's beautiful and childlike views of the kingdom of Heaven, saying: 
               "It begins here, Bertha; very feeble, it is true, but the spirit of love to our Lord, and to each other for His sake, is the spirit of that blessed kingdom." 
               "That is the kingdom of heaven which our dear Saviour brought to this world, is it not, grandmother?' 
                
               And the dear old lady would smile, and laying her hand upon Bertha's head would reply: 
               "Let us enter it and dwell there, mein liebling, and then it will not be a very wide step to go over the portal." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE LITTLE MOTHER. 
               IT is Sunday morning, and the house is quieted for the day. Frau von Rosenmuller, leaving Meta in charge of Barbara, the house-servant, is on her way out with the good old people, and as many as she could persuade to accompany her to church. The Professor has drifted away from the moorings of his childhood, for notwithstanding that he had been trained by a Lutheran mother, educated at the university, he had been insensibly affected by its rationalism, but for the greater part of his life so entirely engrossed by his profession, that he had become simply indifferent-so with cap, slippers and wrapper, he bids the party good morning. Conrad and Ernest are lounging in their chairs on the piazza, in the same undress, all three with their meerschaums, bent on a morning of indolent repose. The good frau laid her hand upon Conrad's head, stooping to kiss the youth's downy cheek, and saying: 
               "Have you quite forgotten the old church, mein sohn?" 
               "Doctor Eichenbrodt is such a bore, mutter mein, and we really learn nothing from the old man." 
                
               "We learn to follow the blessed Saviour, Conrad, which I fear you are forgetting," was the answer. 
               "Eich, mutter!" was the reply, "only a mist of the superstitions that are dying fast." 
               The good lady sighed as she remembered the days when all her children accompanied her to the old church; but since the elder boys had entered the university, they had gradually slid away from her guiding hand, and, dazzled by the false lights of the bewildering philosophy of that school of learning, had set themselves up to be wiser than their good little mother, loving and admiring her as much as ever, not knowing that it was the loving spirit of Christ beaming from her kind eyes, and softening the tones of her silvery voice; nor stopping to ask what was the charm of her simple-hearted character. 
               The party passed out through the orchard, and Conrad turned to his brother, saying: 
               "This old worn out gospel makes a woman seem what she should be, Ernest, and does well enough for them; but never for the free thought of one who would be a man." 
               "I would not wish to see our mother like Madame von Pfeiffer, with her proud independence and her loud, boisterous voice, stamping about with the professors," replied Ernest. 
               "No, indeed; let little mutter be just as she is; she is as good as an angel in my sight." 
               Ernest laughed-"An angel, Conrad!" 
               "It's a pretty word and belongs to mutter; she is one, I know, if it means a being that is good, and loving, and holy." 
               But they took up their pipes, smoking on the piazza, and forgetting the teachings of their early days when, led by that gentle mother's hand, they had followed her to the old church; still unconsciously reading the blessed epistle in the daily life that overshadowed them like the wings of an angel. 
               The Professor smoked out his pipe, and then turning into the house, opened the piano, and spent the rest of the morning at his instrument, pouring out the compositions of the old masters, Beethoven, Mozart and Handel, who were among his favorites; and we find him still there when the family returned. 
               This is a model household of neatness and thrifty housekeeping, and we will walk through its rooms, and learn some lessons from its quiet, orderly system It would do one's heart good to see the good frau in her short dress and neat apron, with her pure white cap and bright ribbons, bustling about at the dawn of day, in her silvery German, summoning the subjects of her domestic realm. 
               The floors of the rooms are white as boards can be, without carpets, which, to our American ideas, seems so cold and dreary. In winter, a loose piece about one-fourth of the size of the room lay in the center, fringed like a rug; in front of the sofa another, and scattered about are several of smaller size. 
                
               The furniture is plain and substantial, nothing rich or elaborate-to be sure, there are tasty curtains to the parlor windows, and the walls are decorated with statuettes of Goethe, Schiller, Beethoven, Mozart, Handel and other great poets and musicians not in marble, however, only plaster of Paris. China stoves with brass ornaments, heat the house in winter, making quite a showy article of furniture. 
               But now we are in a sleeping-room, which is a miracle of neatness-but dear me! is that really a bedstead to sleep on, with its wedge of wood to prop the head, as though sitting up, and smothered between two feather-beds? 
               The kitchen is on the same floor with the parlor, a gallery of art, where the good frau often invites visitors to see how her daughters are improving in the way of helping mutter. 
               We will stop here awhile on this Monday morning, and admire its display of burnished kettles, coffee-pots, pans and dippers, either hanging on the walls, or ranged upon shelves in their bright array. 
               Magda is there in her neat apron, with sleeves rolled up, hands deep in flour, fashioning the small bread for breakfast, while Barbara is making the coffee, Thekla setting the breakfast-table, and Bertha up-stairs, arranging the bed-rooms, for each has her work in Frau von Rosenmuller's establishment. 
               The kitchen door opens suddenly, and there stand Leopold Reichenbach and his sister Eva; having arrived the night before, and not willing to wait for breakfast, they had made this early call on the Heights. 
               The usual salutation of kissing, instead of shaking hands, suffused Magda's usually pale face with a bashful blush as Leopold kissed the powdered hands, and whispered a few words about the young girl's housekeeping. Magda replied in a few low words, and the mutter invited her guests into the parlor. 
               Leopold praised the small bread and the fried apples, but Magda did not eat much that morning. 
               The visitors stayed all day, however, and the heads of the family entertained the guests, while Magda kept her place in the kitchen, it being her work to help there. Queer! according to our American notions. 
               There was a good dinner of soup and spiced beef first; then came herrings, beets and potatoes, with German sauce of anise-seed, vinegar and sugar in one vessel, rice, nutmeg, carroway seed and gravy in another, the salad dressed with sugar and vinegar; after which, came Magda's pies and mutter's Dutch cheese, Leopold saying something to the good frau about her daughter's domestic accomplishments, which created not a little uneasiness in the mother's heart. Lager-beer and the indispensable meerschaum closed the dinner, after which came music, and an excursion over the water. Leopold watched his chance to see the good people alone, who asked a little time to consider his proposals. 
               Although Magda had some idea of his preference for herself, not a distinct word had passed his lips, only a whisper now and then in the presence of the parents, for young people in these circumstances are not allowed to see each other alone, until after the ceremony of betrothal. 
               Crossing the river, Leopold managed, however, to sit next to Magda, mutter on the other side, and seated in the arbor in the garden it was much the same. They never thought of rambling off together, but Magda knew that Leopold had talked alone with her parents, and the shy look of bashfulness with which she listened to his common remarks betrayed her consciousness. It was a hurried visit, but Leopold was to return soon for an answer to his proposals, and so he bade farewell to Magdalena. 
               "Guess what Leopold said when he bade goodbye, Magda," said Fritz, delighting in an opportunity to tease his sister. 
               "I don't care, Fritz, I wish you would stop your nonsense," replied Magda. 
               "He called me little bruder," said the boy. 
               "He had better wait awhile, I think," said the girl, bridling and blushing deeply. 
               "It's pretty plain, I think, Magda, didn't I see you blush every time he spoke to you? I know, I know." 
                
               "Mutter, do stop the boy; I think it's horrid for Fritz to run on so." 
               "There, there sister, I didn't mean a bit of harm, I just found out your secret, that's all," and kissing Magda's hand he ran off, his sister walking away in military step. 
               "Come here, Gretchen," said the boy, "I have a secret to tell you: we are going to have a betrothal." 
               "I thought so," was the quick reply; "won't we be sorry, Fritz? Magda makes such nice crullers." 
               Fritz laid back and laughed. 
               "And that's all that you care for, Gretchen. Aren't you ashamed of yourself?" 
               "No, I am not; for you know that Magda tells about our tricks, and many a time has she found us out, and spoiled our fun." 
               "Yes, I know that; but she's a good sister, and we ought not to forget how she nursed us both when we were sick with the measles." 
               "So she did, Fritz, and I am sorry for what I said just now." 
               "You ought to have seen Magda when I teased her, Gretchen; this way, just look!" and Fritz stepped off in true military style. 
               "That's Magda!" shouted Gretchen, laughing and clapping her hands. With these words, away they flew, on some game of fun. 
               The labors of the day are over, and assembled in the parlor the good mutter's silvery voice is calling her household group around her. 
                
               "Would you like to know our family names, mein kinder?" said the little mother, looking around with her loving eyes. 
               "Something beautiful, I know," said Bertha, as they crowded around, and the good frau, seated on her low chair, commenced: 
               "Grossvater is our evergreen, for though silver-haired and tottering in his step, he is always fresh and green." 
               The old man smiled, and laid his withered hand lovingly on his daughter's head. 
               "Grossmutter is our passion flower, full of sweet thoughts that cluster around the cross of Calvary. 
               "The Professor is my king, wearing the crown imperial." 
               "Eich bein! mein liebling," he smiled in return. 
               "And I am only the daisy," continued the little mother, while the Professor whispered something that brought a swift blush and a sweet smile upon that sunny face. 
               "Magdalena is my white lily, stately and proud, but fragrant, too, with household virtues." 
               "Thekla, my mimosa, trembling and swaying under every breeze, never able to resist passing influences. Bertha, my pansy, my heart's-ease," and the dear child kissed her aunt's hand, as she whispered: 
               "I am so glad, so glad! I had rather be that, than the most beautiful of all the flowers." 
               "Gretchen is my thistle-blossom, born in a nest of nettles, airy, flitting everywhere, with no aim but that of following, like the thistle-blossom, just where the wind leads." 
               "It won't be so always, Aunt Mina," whispered Bertha, her loving heart always ready with a kindly word. 
               "Conrad is my graceful elm." 
               "Thank you, mutter mein," was the low reply. 
               "And Ernest, my quivering aspen, with his sensitive, imaginative nature." 
               "So true, mutter mein," said the youth, rather sadly, "but you can never know how much of keen joy and exquisite sorrow is hidden in that name." 
               "And Fritz! what shall I call him? a poplar-no, he'll never be so tall and erect; an oak? no, he'll never be so strong; a bramble? no, he'll never be so useless; a fir tree? yes, green and vigorous among the family trees, and our Fritz must be good and beautiful too." 
               The boy's eyes swam in tears, as he kissed his mother's hand, for so full of mischief was the youth, that seldom any language but that of chiding and complaint greeted him whenever he appeared. 
               "Mein goot mutter knows all about me," said the boy, "and she shall be a true prophetess about her wild son, yet." 
               "And little Meta," she continued, "she is my lily of the valley." 
               "We have a fine garden to cultivate," said grandmother Haller. 
                
               "You'll help, grossmutter," said the good frau. 
               "I'll try, mein tochter." 
               "Your stories about good and bad fairies help us, grossmutterchen," said Bertha, "for we never forget them and their lessons." 
               Just then, their minister, the good Doctor Eichenbrodt, stepped in among them, regarded very much like a father of the household. One ran to take his hat, another his cane, a third handed him a chair, and little Meta stole her hand into the good man's palm, when she found him seated near her. 
               He was a sunny old gentleman, and the benevolent smile with which he looked upon this household expressed the pleasure that he felt in his visits to the House on the Heights. The Professor gave him all the family names, and turning to the little mother the minister said: 
               "I think that I must come in for mine." 
               "You are a fine olive tree, Doctor Eichenbrodt," was the reply, "for that is the most sacred of all the scripture trees; you bring the dear Lord Jesus so constantly before us, that we name you the one most honored while he sojourned on earth; for olive trees shaded the lonely garden of Gethsemane, and graced the mountain from which he ascended into heaven." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               APPLE BLOSSOMS. 
               OUT on the balcony, overlooking the orchard, we meet the Professor and his lady. It is a soul-inspiring day, the sky clear and cloudless, the air full of the fragrance of sweet apple blossoms. 
               Bertha is under the apple tree with her embroidery frame, Ernest teasing her by snatching it away, and gathering some of the lovely blossoms, crowns her fair head with flowers, and places a small bunch in the bosom of her dress. 
               She stands there so sweet and blooming, a creature so entirely in harmony with the Spring season that the mother calls Conrad to come and look at the lovely picture. 
               "Stand still, Bertha," called her cousin, as taking out his pencil and paper, he made a hasty sketch of the figure that stood smiling upon him, in her youthful beauty. Conrad draws on the paper; but a mental picture is more powerfully drawn upon the heart of the younger brother, who stands gazing too. 
               "How can we ever part from Bertha?" said the lady, "I wish that the Baron had made a different will; she is so happy with us, and we love her so dearly." 
               "I often feel the same, Mina," replied the Professor, "and I know that she will be so grieved when she knows the truth; but I am pretty sure that she will never choose the gay, worldly life, at Berlin, with her aunt Hildegarde." Just then, Ernest took away her frame, and seating her by his side, he took out a small package, and commenced reading, Bertha's sweet face expressing all the delight that she felt in listening to his poems, for she was the only one to whom the bashful young poet would ever read his effusions. 
               After the reading, they sang a sweet German song together, carrying the parts, while the parents listened to the melody. 
               Suddenly Gretchen steals upon them, and attempts to snatch away the paper, a contest following, which ends in Gretchen's carrying off the prize, and teasing poor Ernest all day with a young poet's dread of discovery. 
               "Just give it to me, Gretchen," said her brother, "and I'll buy you the most beautiful doll that I can find next Christmas, with a spangled dress, and real curly hair-just do; that's a good little thing." 
               "I cannot, Ernest, I must show it to Fritz first." "Oh! don't, don't, Gretchen; he'll worry me to death about it, and I can't bear to be laughed at." 
               Bertha came forward now with her sweet face and winning words. 
                
               "I am so afraid that you have torn it, Gretchen, dear; you don't know anything about a poet's feelings, and Ernest writes real poetry, only he can't bear every one to see it yet; just wait until he is a little older, and we'll all be proud of him; but don't tease him. I know you wouldn't if you thought that it was real torment." 
               "There, take it, Bertha, you always have your own way, and you don't fight for it either." 
               "That's a sweet pet," said her cousin, as she kissed the child, at the same time giving her a few little doughnuts which she drew out of her pocket. "There, Heinrich, did you see that?" said the watcher on the balcony, "that is the way that she leads all of them. What shall we do without her?" 
               "She'll come back to us, the darling, after her trial, I know," answered the Professor. "Yes, Heinrich, but three years in a foreign land, think of that!" 
               But there was no more time for talking, and the busy housewife passed into her daily tasks. 
               "I must go now; good-bye, Ernest," said the young girl. "It is my week in the kitchen, and this is pancake day." "Mind, you make them good, Bertha, and plenty of them." 
               "O, fie! fie! Ernest, a poet to think of eating! I thought that the poets lived on ambrosia." 
               "Don't you believe a word of it, mein liebling, you'll see. 
               In her kitchen apron, we soon find the young girl by the side of her aunt, with sleeves rolled up, learning the art of making pancakes. 
               "Beat your eggs well, Bertha," said the good frau, "have plenty of fat, fry quickly, and serve hot. Don't leave your greasy dishes about; wash them as soon as you are done, and put them away." 
               Bertha, with nimble fingers, obeyed orders. "Now one more lively beating, and in with the cakes." 
               Barbara was delighted when she saw what light brown pancakes her young favorite carried in to the dinner table. Grossmutter praised the pancakes, and Bertha laughed heartily at Ernest, as she saw the proofs of his real fleshly nature, in the abundance of pancakes which he managed to dispose of. "Ernest can eat pancakes if he is a poet," said his laughing cousin. 
               After dinner, Bertha went out again to the kitchen to set the biscuit for supper, and heard some of the orders of the thrifty house-wife. 
               The extreme cautiousness of the German character might appear to some like stinginess, but let us watch the results. "I saw a crust of bread in the slops out there, Barbara," said the good frau. 
               "Just one piece, Madam," was the reply. 
               "Too much to waste, Barbara; now gather up these stale pieces and dry them in the oven, grate them and put them away in bottles; they are excellent crumbs for frying, and good for puddings, too." 
               "I always do, Madam, see what a stock I have!" at the same time opening a closet, she displayed three large bottles of grated stale bread. 
               In another pan were broken pieces of bread and meat, and in a pot by the fire some quarts of good soup made from yesterday's boiled meat, saved for a family and an aged woman, who thus obtained from Frau von Rosenmuller many a good meal that would otherwise have been thrown away. 
               Even among the wealthiest of German families nothing is wasted; everything is made to tell, and thus, those in very moderate circumstances can exercise daily habits of systematic benevolence. 
               "Here they are, aunt Mina!" said Bertha, bringing in little Max and Christine Schwarz, who came for their pitcher of soup on pancake day. 
               Very modestly the little ones took their seats, answering the good frau's questions about the folks at home. 
               Lifting up her dress, Christine displayed a most remarkable petticoat, of which she seemed very proud, made of small patches of every color, red and green, blue and yellow, brown and black, neatly fitted together and quilted. 
               "Where did you get that, Christine?" inquired Bertha. 
               "Isn't it a beauty? Fraulein Peterkin made it for me: it's all quilted; mein mutter says it will last for years." 
               "With your good mutter's care, I think it will," remarked the good frau. 
                
               "Fraulein is so good," continued the child, "she has made six just like this, and six caps too, and given them all away to poor people; the cold can't pinch our ears under these warm caps." 
               "We all know about good Fraulein," said Bertha, "I wonder sometimes, how she manages to give away so much; but then she never wastes anything." 
               "That's the secret, mein liebling," said grandmother Haller, who was listening at the kitchen door, "'Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost;' our good Fraulein observes that fully, and one can hardly believe how much good she does by her economy." 
               "When mein mutter was sick," said Christine, "we used to go every day to Fraulein's, and she sent such good wasser-soup and brown bread; I don't know what we should have done without that, until mein mutter got well." 
               "Some people call Fraulein Peterkin stingy, for she has a box for stray pins, another for scraps of paper, another for pieces of muslin, and another for calico; and with her shelf for medicines, and another for nice things for the sick, she is always ready when her help is needed; and Fraulein is not rich, either," concluded the old lady. 
               "She has a loving heart, grossmutter." 
               "Yes, and hands and feet swift to do good." 
               Christine chimed in again- 
               "She came and stayed all night with us when mein mutter was so bad, and we were all alone." 
               "She is not very pretty," said grandmother Haller, "but she is good, and that is better, Bertha." 
               "Fraulein will be beautiful in the kingdom of heaven, grossmutter," was the reply. 
               "Yes, mein liebling, where the soul shines out in its perfect loveliness." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               IN THE CLOISTERS. 
               "EASTER-EVE, Ernest!" said Bertha, as they stood listening to the vesper bells. 
               "They'll have fine music at the old church to-night," was the reply. "Suppose we run down and hear the practicing." 
               "I am ready," and away they started hand-in-hand for the church, where there was a remarkably fine organ and a well-trained choir. 
               Both are passionately fond of music and poetry, and having this bond of interest, are much together. 
               The service was nearly over, and the two took their seats among the worshippers; remaining behind after the congregation had dispersed, they hid away among the cloisters in a distant corner of the church, concealed in the darkness. 
               They listened with rapt attention to the rolling organ, and the grand music of the resurrection morning-Bertha with clasped hands, and eyes fixed upon the distant window of stained glass, glowing in the sunset glory. 
               There is a pause now in the performance, the voices in the choir talking about the music. 
                
               "Did you ever hear about a people called Quakers, Ernest?" asked his companion. 
               "Who are they?" was the response. 
               "People who think it a sin to have music in church, or even at home; just think of that, Ernest! They'll have to sing in heaven; what will they do among the hundred and forty-four thousand who sing the new song of the redeemed?" 
               "If they ever reach that mystic place, Bertha," answered Ernest, with a smile. 
               "It is no mystic place, Ernest; I don't like to hear you talk so; you never did before you went to the university." 
               "We learn wisdom when we go there, Bertha, and soon get over these nursery tales." 
               "How can you talk so, Ernest? There are many strong minds who do not call them nursery tales. You don't call Doctor Luther, and Melanchthon, and the great men of those days, silly and weak-minded?" 
               "Hush, Bertha! they are beginning again." 
               And then followed some soft, delicious music, and the two held their breath while listening. 
               "That must be like the music of heaven," said Bertha, when they paused. 
               Then came the grand hallelujah, and the young girl enraptured, said in a low, sweet voice: 
               "That seems like the welcome home to heaven, Ernest; I cannot bear to think that you should be absent on that glorious morning." 
                
               "What morning, Bertha?" 
               "The resurrection day that we celebrate to-morrow." 
               "The resurrection of what, Bertha?" 
               "These bodies of ours, cousin." 
               "Who knows anything about it, Bertha?" 
               "We do, Ernest; little children know, and all the followers of our Lord that are like the little children." 
               Ernest smiled proudly, and said: 
               "How do we know, Bertha?" 
               "From God's own word." 
               "From God's own word? that is the question!" 
               "Don't talk so, Ernest; I am so sorry." 
               The performers are moving out of the choir, and hand-in-hand the two pass out of the old church. 
               "I wish that I could be a great composer, Bertha," said the youth, "just like our father." 
               "That is just what you will be, Ernest, I am sure." 
               "I have such beautiful thoughts when I lie awake at night, and I cannot express them." 
               "You will when you grow older, Ernest." 
               "Mein --! that was grand music, Bertha." 
               Placing her little hand upon his mouth, she said: 
               "Don't, Ernest, don't take that holy name upon your lips so lightly." 
               "I don't mean any harm, little cousin; just as I say mein jungfrau." 
               "He does not think so, Ernest, for He says 'Swear not at all; neither by heaven, for it is God's throne; nor by the earth, for it is His footstool.'" 
               "You are a good little thing, Bertha; don't mind, me." 
               Entering the parlor, they took their seats at the piano, trying to recall the sweet, soft music that they had just heard in the old church. After a few trials, Bertha exclaimed: 
               "We have it, Ernest, now let us play it together." 
               And while the Professor listened, delighted with their performance, the two produced the air that had so delighted Bertha. 
               Seating himself in the family circle, the Professor looked around with a smiling face, saying: 
               "Next week I go to Berlin, and I will take Ernest and Bertha to spend the holiday, if they will play a piece of music that I have chosen, perfectly." 
               "That we will!" cried both voices, and set themselves bravely to work, determined to accomplish their task. 
               It was a difficult piece, but they had learned it some time before, and the good Professor gave them many a hint, for he had no idea of leaving either at home. 
               "We shall have all Easter Monday, and will give up our trip over the river," said Bertha, "and I know that we can do it." 
               In the evening of that day they played it in most charming style, and the Professor declared the pleasant trip well earned, not saying a word about the trunk that the little mother had carefully packed in the morning. 
               Bertha had not seen Aunt Hildegarde since the days of infancy, and therefore felt very much like a stranger in the grand house, all so different from her home at Heidelberg; quite awed by the stately lady who received her in the parlor. 
               "Very like her mother," was her aunt's remark to the Professor, "but rather rustic for her position; we shall have to fit up the young lady." 
               Just then her cousins, Theresa and Ursula, entered the room, and Bertha felt that there was something wanting in their polite but not affectionate welcome. 
               Next day, ordering the carriage, Madame von Ingolstadt drove off to her dressmaker's and milliner's, ordering a change of attire for her niece. 
               "I suppose you know, my dear, that your position in life will be very different from your cousins' at Heidelberg; the daughter of a wealthy baron is much elevated above a professor of music." 
               "I don't want to be at all different, Aunt Hildegarde; they are so kind and good, and I love them just as well as if they were my own brothers and sisters. 
               "That is all very pretty, but you must not forget, Bertha, that you are heiress to a coronet." 
               "Talents like my uncle's and cousins' are better and higher than a coronet; and I would rather wear Aunt Mina's and Fraulein Peterkin's crown than any other." 
               "What kind of a crown is that?" 
               "A crown of goodness, Aunt Hildegarde." 
               "You will learn something different from all that when you come to live with me at Berlin." 
               Arrayed in her new attire, Bertha attended the opera with her aunt and cousins; the greatest pleasure there, the fact that the music was one of her uncle's best compositions, that he had come to hear produced for the first time. 
               But we will give below Bertha's impressions, in her own artless words: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              DEAR AUNT MINA:
                            
                           I thought that you would like to hear from us, and I feel that I must write to the dear ones at Heidelberg, for I am really lonely in this great city. Aunt Hildegarde is a grand lady, and so are my cousins, Theresa and Ursula, and I soon found that my pretty dress that had been made for me, and which we all admired so much, did not suit their ideas. You would hardly know your own Bertha in the stylish dress that she has bought for me. Ernest laughed so when he first saw me in this gay attire. 
                           "You are a little lady, always," said my good cousin; "even when in the kitchen with your sleeves rolled up, and in your neat white apron." 
                           That was very good in Ernest, was it not? and I really like it better myself; but what does aunt Hildegarde mean when she hints every now and then, about the time when I shall live in Berlin? never, if I can help it. 
                            
                           Last evening we went to the opera; I was charmed, and so was Ernest, when we found that it was one of uncle Heinrich's own compositions. 
                           We have so many grand people coming and going, that I shall really be glad to come down from this high and lofty place, to our dear family circle at home. 
                           The other day we went to the cathedral, and uncle played on the grand organ. I wish that you could have heard him-it was one morning after service, and one by one the priests came back into the church to see what master's hand was in the choir. 
                           He made the organ speak in all the voices of music, grand and majestic, solemn wails of sorrow and triumphant notes, soft, heavenly music, and the low sweet hymns that we all love, so different when played by uncle Heinrich. He is a great master, is he not, aunt Mina? 
                            
                           We are thinking of home, and last evening aunt Hildegarde asked me, "If I would not like to live in Berlin?" 
                           You know that I must tell the truth, aunt Mina, and I replied: 
                           "And leave Aunt Mina and the dear ones at Heidelberg? 
                           "Why not?" she asked so much surprised. 
                           "Because I love them so dearly, and because I love their simple way of living." 
                           "But you are the daughter of a German baron, and that is no life for you." 
                           "I want the life where I can serve God best, Aunt Hildegarde." 
                           "Where did you learn all this nonsense?" 
                           "From dear Aunt Mina, and good Doctor Eichenbrodt, our minister." 
                            
                           "You are a strange child," she replied, "but you'll change when you are older." 
                           But she will find out her mistake, Aunt Mina. She has been very kind, giving me so many beautiful presents, and money too, which I have spent for the dear ones at home. 
                           We leave on Saturday, and I shall be so happy to see you all once more, and always come back as your own loving 
                           
                              PANSY.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Bertha is at home again, and in the evening, she gathered all around her, and distributed her gifts, not forgotting old Barbara, to whom she brought a pipe and a new cloth cap. 
               Next morning they were all highly amused when Bertha appeared at the breakfast table, in her simple attire; the fashionable mode of dressing the hair at Berlin, all giving way to the simple style of the home on the Heights. 
               "Just the same child," said the little mother, when alone with the Professor. 
               "They will never steal her from us, Mina," was the calm reply, "but I can assure you that she was much caressed at Berlin." 
               "Her heart will never be drawn away from us, Heinrich." 
               "I think not, but we must abide by the trial and its results." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               HUNTING FOR FAIRIES. 
               FRITZ and Gretchen are the little mother's trials; the former, full of talent, but too indolent and mischievous to study, and Gretchen always ready to join him in his pranks. 
               They are rowing on this bright afternoon on the Necker, with old Hans the boatman, who supplies the family with fish. 
               Hans is a favorite with the young people, for he has an abundant stock of wonderful stories of hobgoblins, and wizards, and witches, that abound in in all the mountains and streams of Germany. 
               He told of wonderful frogs that pour water into the barrels of guns when hunters are asleep; ambitious cats learning to sing from nightingales; ravens that draw chariots through the air filled with canary birds; rabbits that lay eggs, and defend their nests with pitchforks; rats that chase bad men into old castles, and devour them, bones and all; the favorite story being about the hunter in the Black Forest. 
               It is sundown, and they creep closer to old Hans when he tells them that he was chased himself by the fearful rider. He is lying on his oars now, and winds up with a beautiful story about the fairies, that live in blue-bells and butter-cups, and dance under the trees, in the moonlight. 
               "Where do you find them, Hans?" said Fritz, "I never saw one." 
               "Nor I. But my grandmother said that her grandfather saw some once in a dark old woods." 
               "What kind of places do they like best, Hans?" asked Gretchen. 
               "Where there are plenty of trees, and near old ruins, so they say." 
               "The old castle, Fritz!" said Gretchen. "Tomorrow is a holiday; let us go and hunt for them." 
               "Remember, they never come in the day-time; and you might be afraid to stay there alone in the night," said Hans. 
               "We are never afraid," replied Fritz. "I have been in the old ruins many a time in the darkness." 
               Rather too intelligent to believe all the marvelous tales that old Hans told, there was, nevertheless, a charm about his wild legends that fascinated the children especially. 
               Their busy heads were full of their wild scheme, and as this was a favorite resort of the children, they did not think of asking the consent of their parents. 
                
               Gone all the afternoon; supper time came, but no children. 
               We will join them in their wild hunt. As soon as the twilight fell upon the landscape they began their search, looking down into the butter-cups and blue-bells, and wondering if there were really any such queer little people. 
               "It is good fun, anyhow," said Fritz, "even if there are none; but old Hans says so, and there are heaps of stories about their queer ways." 
               Now the moon is up, shining through the old ruins, and imparting a weird appearance to the dark and sombre shadows of the walls, still standing in their solitary grandeur; the cry of the night birds filling the old castle with their mournful vespers. 
               They had brought some crullers with them, so that they were not very hungry; but they were suddenly surprised by the sound of approaching voices, and the flashing of lights, and in a few minutes found themselves in the midst of a company of students, who, with their musical instruments and their pipes, were out on an expedition of pleasure by moonlight in the old ruins. They were a jolly set, and the children forgot how time was flying while they listened to their glees and stories, completely carried away by the music, for this was a band of trained musicians. 
               "What are you doing here, mein kinder?" said one of the young men. 
                
               "Hunting for fairies," was Gretchen's reply; "but we have not seen any yet." 
               "We'll bring them," said the youth, with a merry twinkle, "just stay where you are." 
               Accompanied by another, they chose their place of action at some distance, under a group of large trees. 
               Two or three with wind instruments played a sweet musical dance; and in a short time the children's eyes opened wide as they perceived little glittering figures flitting about under the trees. 
               Not perceiving the two hidden behind a tree, who threw these mimic fireworks, their excited fancies easily imagined a dance in the moonlight. 
               "Are they really fairies?" said Gretchen; "they do like figures, and no larger than a thumb." 
               The dance did not continue long, for the fireworks gave out, but the students had their fun, and Gretchen had really seen fairies-Fritz suspecting some trick. 
               Then they told some wonderful stories, and the runaways quite forgot home and anxious little mother, until one of the young men, taking out his watch, told them it was eleven o'clock. 
               Gretchen turned pale. Fritz kept up a brave heart, but one of the young men saw them safely down the hill into the most frequented streets, and they traveled slowly home. 
               The runaways were really sorry for their thoughtlessness when they saw the fright of the household. 
                
               "Where have you been all this while, children?" inquired the mother. 
               "Just hunting for fairies," said Gretchen. "Old Hans told us so much about them, we thought we would go; and we did see them dancing under the trees, didn't we, Fritz?" 
               The boy laughed. 
               "We saw something dancing, but it was some of the students' hocus-pocus." And then he told the story of their entertainment. 
               After some refreshment, they were sent to bed, the Professor greatly displeased at their thoughtlessness. 
               Next morning, Grandmother Haller called the young people around her, telling them that she had a story for them, bidding Fritz and Gretchen to sit near her chair; and then in her own pleasant way she told a story of the Runaways. 
               "Two little children, one named Max, the other Christel, were fond of wandering in the woods They had often been told not to go too far, for there were wild beasts in the deep forest. 
               But like other foolish children, they thought that they knew better than their elders, and said to each other: "They only say this to frighten us." One day, they were out gathering berries and wild flowers, and forgot how far they had wandered. Night came on, and the poor little children found that they were lost. "What shall we do?" said Max." we can't find our way out at night." "Let us make a bed of leaves," said Christel, and so they went to work, and then lay down to sleep. 
               But they had not lain there long, before they heard the distant growl of a wild animal-nearer and nearer it came, the bushes cracking under its feet. Almost wild with terror, they were about to run, when an old woman suddenly appeared. 
               They related to her the story of their wanderings, and she told them that if they would do just as she directed, she would lead them safely out. 
               She then gave into each hand a golden chain, telling them that as long as they followed where it led, they would be safe; but if they disobeyed their parents again, link by link would drop off until it would all disappear, and then they would be left alone, to follow out their own evil ways. But if the chain is to be of any use, they must first seek out a little lamp, which will lead them to a fountain of blood where they can wash and be clean; if they neglect any of these directions, they will certainly be lost. 
               They promised faithfully, and the old fairy led them to the edge of the woods, and then left them. 
               They followed her directions, and were led home safely. 
               But in a few days, they forgot their fright. It was too much trouble to carry the lamp and the chain too-they are wiser than the old fairy, and think the chain will do. The links begin to drop one by one; they had lost the lamp, and the chain too disappeared at last. Astray again, they wander off to the woods, for they have heard wonderful tales about the bears, and must see one for themselves. Over the hills, down by mountain streams, plucking wild flowers by the way, they entered the dark forest at last, and wandered many days, lost, lost, lost! 
               Years after, a hunter found a cap and a fragment of a scarlet dress, with some whitened bones, far far away from the haunts of men; and this was all that was left to tell the fate of Max and Christel the little runaways." 
               "I think that I understand it, grossmutter," said Bertha; "the lamp is the Bible, the fountain is the blood of Jesus, the gold chain is the power of faith, the wild animals are our sins that lead us away from Jesus." 
               "You are right, mein dochter," said the old lady, smiling on the speaker. 
               There is to be a grand festival to-morrow in a neighboring village, but Fritz and Gretchen are to be left at home. 
               "Please let me stay, Aunt Mina," said Bertha; "they are so sorry, it was the music and the stories that kept them; they forgot how late it was." 
               "We deserve to be punished," said Fritz, "for worrying our mother, but I won't let Bertha stay." 
               Grandmother Haller had her word of intercession too, and so Bertha was made happy by finding that all would go, the closing argument all powerful at last. 
                
               "You know, Aunt Mina, how often you have said that children must be made happy to be good." 
               "Rather the other way I think, Bertha," was her aunt's reply. 
               A smile of full consent, paid Bertha for the quick application. 
               Adorned with flowers and flags, we find our party wending their way to the village, honoring some old custom, of which there is abundance in Germany. 
               The houses were flaming with flags and banners, the air filled with music, the streets decorated with garlands of flowers from house to house across the street, the windows swarming with bright happy faces, all joining in the merriment, even the old people in a little wagon accompanying the crowds; our pleasure much spoiled, however, by the universal profanity of all classes; so common is the practice that the exception is the rarity. 
               No party is complete, however, without good Fraulein Peterkin, so we find her in the wagon with the old people, perched up on a high seat with the driver; Jip in her lap, dressed off with flowers, and amusing the spectators by the cunning way in which, every now and then, he would put out his little red tongue to kiss his mistress; she chatting away in her own lively way, and pretending to be very much offended by these tricks. 
               She has a basket well filled with crullers and pies and Dutch cheese, and the young people from the Heights were all ready to welcome the kind lady when they alighted at the garden. 
               Taking Fritz and Gretchen by the hand, she said: 
               "Glad to see you, mein kinder, I heard all about the fairies; but they didn't come, hey?" 
               "Yes, they did, Fraulein," was Gretchen's quick reply, "I saw them down under the trees, indeed I did." 
               "The students were there, I heard. I wonder if they brought the fairies; they do queer things sometimes." 
               They are choosing their seats now, among the crowds that are hurrying into the garden; the good Fraulein bustling around on her active little feet, seeing that the old people were comfortable first, then all the rest, and herself last. 
               Bringing out her basket, she opened its contents on the table, where the lager and the glasses are placed already, and it was a pleasant lesson for the children, as they watched the unselfish acts of the good Fraulein, all so modest and unstudied too, as all real kindness of heart must be. 
               Always sunny and cheerful, everything pleased her; the music, and the banners, and the holiday; "just the brightest," she said, "of all the season." 
               Then she was flitting about like a butter-fly: speaking to this old body, helping a lame girl to a better seat, patting the children on their rosy cheeks, for she had hosts of friends among the little folks, and many a chubby hand was stretched out for her nice crullers; "didn't they know how good they were?" they said in their innocence, when checked a little by their parents, "we know that they were made for us; aren't they, good Fraulein?" and the black eyes smiled a kind reply. 
               Jip had a fine time too, showing off all his tricks, and rewarded with some stale crullers that his mistress kept in a pocket just for him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               FRAULEIN PETERKIN. 
               KATERINA PETERKIN was an institution at Heidelberg. Not fat and forty, but very small; small hands, small feet, and past forty five; quite antiquated in her style of dress, having worn the same for twenty years because the lover of her youth liked it. She had a profusion of small crisp curls, black mixed with gray, drawn up high on the head in a knot with a large comb; sparkling black eyes always sending out their rays of genuine kindness. 
               Katerina wore a short skirt, with a short waist, tight sleeves, always neat wrist ruffles, and frill about the neck. She wore a black ribbon, to which is suspended a miniature worn in her bosom, and a small gold watch. Fraulein indulges in no extravagance save very fine gloves and shoes; is always seen in a black silk apron, with pockets; wears a large beaver hat with short cloak in winter; in summer, a large straw hat; carrying a large umbrella that almost conceals her little figure, and a small fan. 
               She lives in a small house with six rooms, and one old servant Lizabet, who has lived with her from childhood. The furniture is antiquated like herself; the articles most treasured, an old piano, a violin tied with black ribbon, a picture of a man in early youth, his hat still hanging on the stand in the hall. Early in life, she had lost her lover, Rupert Groebel, to whom she was fondly attached, and the affection so lavishly bestowed upon him, now scatters its honey-dew upon objects around. 
               Katerina is a busy little person, not a busy-body however; she is too benevolent for that, always at betrothals, christenings, and funerals-no party in her own social circle complete, without the good Fraulein. Always busy, knitting stockings, making medicines, and putting up delicacies for the sick. 
               Finding that many children are too poorly clad, her inventive powers are called out; for having a moderate income, she can not find warm skirts for all, and so she begs from all quarters, patches of merino, cloth, calico, and flannel of all colors, red and green, blue and yellow, black and brown; of these treasures, she makes unique petticoats, putting them together like patch-work, and quilting them thoroughly. 
               There is quite a demand for Fraulein's skirts, which she contrives to keep generally on hand. 
               Fraulein has festivals too at her house, but these are for the poor, and her many friends are ready to help in her feasts of charity, that she may enjoy the luxury of doing good. 
               She is always ready to aid Frau von Rosenmuller in her domestic troubles, for in nursing sick children, she is invaluable. Katerina is very odd, but who meddles with that? 
               It is true that the little figure trotting about the streets of Heidelberg, almost concealed under her large umbrella, generally excites a smile, but never accompanied by one word of ridicule, for there is not a man or boy in all Heidelberg who would not resent the smallest affront to the good little lady. 
               Did not many a German student remember the good Fraulein, who in times of contagious epidemics went about from house to house of lonely strangers away from home, minstering to their wants, and tending them with her own womanly kindness. "Ach! mein gut freund," burst from feverish lips pressed upon the cool touch of her little hands, bathed with tears of gratitude. 
               So we can look upon Katerina's oddities with no diminution of reverence for herself. 
               She has just five pets: two birds, two cats, and one dog, who under her training have learned to live together in peace. She plays the Battle of Prague, and Weber's Last Waltz; sings just two old songs, and no more, but plenty of good old German hymns, with Luther's ring in their melody. 
               She has a favorite saying that "there is some good in every body;" it is very certain that Katerina rina knows just where to find it. She is fond of telling anecdotes, her favorite story about the Grand Duke's carriage being upset at her door, their royal highnesses being brought into the house, and waited on by Lizabet and herself." 
               She has brought up several orphan children, who are now in the way of getting their own living. 
               Among her proteges was one poor idiot, friendless and homeless, the child of one of her pensioners. Cast upon the wide world, the good Fraulein had exerted herself to find her a home, but none seemed willing to take the child with her disgusting aspect into their families, but Lizabet said: "Let her come, we'll make room for her." 
               So the two kind hearts lightened the dark way of the poor child to her last home, which after two weary years she reached at length, and every year on all Saints' Day, Katerina laid her garland of flowers upon the grave of poor Annita. 
               All honor to her generous, noble heart! 
               There is one day in every passing year when Katerina shuts herself up alone with her memories, the anniversary of Rupert's death, and then Lizabet knows that none can see the good Fraulein, and so when visitors call, it is enough to say, "It is the day of Rupert Groebel's death," and for twenty years she has observed it in her room alone. 
               At last, they have learned to stay away on the thirtieth of November, and from her silent room, Katerina comes forth again upon her errands of love. 
                
               We will turn again to the Von Rosenmullers. It is just after the festival, and trotting up the orchard under her large umbrella, comes the little figure. 
               "There comes Cousin Kathie," said Fritz, who was out on the piazza, with Gretchen by his side. 
               "Tip-a-tee-tap, tip-a-tee-tap," said Gretchen, imitating the little figure's peculiar step. "I do wish that Cousin Kathie would dress a little more like other people." 
               Grandmother was close by, overhearing the remark, she said kindly: 
               "Never mind her dress, Gretchen, nor her step either; just think how many hearts those little feet have gladdened, and you can never laugh at Fraulein Peterkin's high heels." 
               "She is so odd, grossmutter, I can't help it sometimes." 
               She is here now on the piazza, bustling round among the children. 
               "Ach! mein kinder, wie gehts, wie gehts," and hurrying into the parlor, she accosted the little mother. 
               "I have brought my knitting, you see, and have come to spend the day." 
               "That is fine," was the reply, "for after dinner, we go over the river." 
               "Just what I came for." 
               And the little lady seated herself somewhat tired with the quick walk. 
                
               Bertha took her hat, Thekla ran off with her umbrella, and Gretchen seized her basket. 
               "Stop little one," said the lady, "I have some goodies for young ones, ech!" she continued turning an inquiring look upon the face of the little mother. 
               "You may bring them out, Fraulein," was the reply. 
               "A new piece of music for Ernest," said the kind voice, "and some real good cookies for the rest." 
               Taking out her knitting, she joined the family circle, running on with her merry chat, that soon set all laughing at her sallies. 
               "I am thinking that I shall be wanted before long," turning a quizzical face towards Magda. "I find that the young lieutenant is here pretty often; you need not blush so, Magda, for he is a good officer, and a fine young man." 
               Magda was very shy and bashful, and without replying she stole quietly away, not telling Katerina that he was expected to-day on a short visit. But the mother told all about the state of affairs and just at dinner time the young officer arrived, all giving him a hearty welcome as he kissed their hands; all but Magda, who stole off into a quiet corner, just raising her fine dark eyes now and then; Leopold's conversation addressed to every one but the person that he most desired to talk with. 
               After dinner the whole household set off on their excursion over the river. Keeping a few conveniences for tea-making at the little hotel, the good mother and Cousin Kathie busied themselves in preparing their evening meal. 
               The fresh air had sharpened their appetites, and the dried sausages, the old cheese, the crullers, the cookies and the pies, disappeared in a flash, Fraulein laughing and chatting like a singing bird-no croaking nor grumbling in her sunny presence. She has contrived to whisper a word or two in Magda's ear: 
               "I have some beautiful silk, and I'll make one of the most lovely quilts that ever was seen in Heidelberg. There, now! don't blush so-I see, mein liebling." 
               Taking leave of the good mother, that evening, she said: 
               "I must come to the betrothal, Mina, and I'll help with all my heart; it has been quite a long time since I was at a wedding." 
               The good lady laughed, and Katerina went home jubilant; her busy brain, and large, warm heart planning for the young people. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE BEE HIVE. 
               ACCORDING to national custom, Magda's parents knew more than hersel about the approaching denouement in her young life; letters however, coming with due punctuality from the young officer-Fritz, the young scamp hiding them until Magda promised some reward. The little mother was already paying requent visits to the stores in Heidelberg, for it was one of the subjects of a German housekeeper's pride to have an abundant supply of house linen. 
               The Professor occasionally put a slight check upon the outlay, but the good frau would pat him on the cheek, and say: 
               "Magda is the first to leave us, Heinrich; and she is a good girl, only a little too proud." 
               Then the father would reply: 
               "If she is half as good as my little frau, Leopold will be a fortunate man." 
               Happy as a singing bird, the good mother would fly round; cutting and planning; Magda blushing and smiling; Fritz and Gretchen quizzing the bash ful girl to their hearts' content. 
               Grandmother Haller was busy knitting and hemming ming towels, and grandfather looked on, smiling, remembering the days long past, when his good frau was preparing for the same event. 
               With the blessed spirit of the children of the kingdom, they had reached the golden age, when they were living over again in the lives of their descendants, those halcyon days of life, not having yet stepped into the season when the grasshopper becomes a burden to the weary flesh. 
               Dear old people! garrulous, it is true, but their stories were all so bright and sunny, and why not? Were they not on the borders of the land of perpetual youth? and did they not know it? Dear old saints, with their crown of silver hair, and the sweet echoes of the everlasting song of heaven murmuring in the depths of their hearts. 
               And Cousin Kathie, was not she in her element now? She had commenced her beautiful quilt of silk and satin, of all colors and the most lovely patterns she could find, every now and then bringing down her little basket of patches, and her book of household recipes, which she was gathering for Magda. 
               "I made a quilt for Hilda Grimm," said the good Fraulein, "but this will be the shining one of Heidelberg." 
               Magda would just peep at the work in her shy, bashful way, and then run off to busy herself elsewhere, doubtless dreaming about the happy future. 
                
               Conrad is an industrious student, making the most of his talents at the university. 
               Ernest is devoted to music and poetry. 
               Fritz a collector of bugs, having many of the insects of Germany, black beetles, earwigs, and ants being his daily companions; Old Barbara not a little vexed to find bugs coming to life deep down in his pockets, or crawling about his room, and the boy would race after the old woman whenever he found one especially hideous, highly amused when driving her into the kitchen closet, where she would stay until he promised to put away the frightful creature. 
               It was a happy household, the father leading their amusements, for they had learned wisdom which we Americans would do well to profit by remembering that the time to play, is as important as the time to work. 
               Who ever dreamed of nervousness in Professor von Rosenmuller's establishment. The good frau nervous! look at her rosy face and bright eyes, her lithe, active figure, her steady industry, and her sunny temper. 
               Systematic living, heavenborn music, the little summer house over the river, and the frequent excursions in the open air had much to do with the sunny atmosphere of the House on the Heights. 
               The Germans might learn much from us Americans, and we in our turn, may glean useful hints from them. 
               As a people, we do not know how to play. We can work, talk, lecture, fight, but we cannot play. We are always intent on business-work, work, work, that is the American motto. 
               Our very fun is just a flash hurried through in the midst of strenuous activity. We are forever doing. We have to stop to eat and sleep, but how do we eat? Bolt down our food as if the act were an intrusion upon our business, carrying our cares to our meals, and even into our dreams. If we do take amusement, we take it hard, as we do everything else. 
               The human machine was not made to run constantly at the highest speed. Keep it at that too long, and it breaks down. The man that never plays, will soon be unable to work, and probably his children will never be able to work at all. 
               If we could just take the German wisdom, and baptize it with the spirit of Christianity, working and playing, too, for the glory of the Master, what a happy people we might be! 
               Let us take one of our intensely driving American merchants, and set him down for one day in the midst of the domestic circle on the Heights. 
               We really have seized him bodily at three o'clock, and here we are over the river, in the summer-house; the Professor and grandfather Haller with their pipes, the ladies with their knitting. Conrad is showing his father some new seals, the Professor really finds time to listen, and is giving an interesting history of each. Ernest brings a curious plant, that he found yesterday near the old castle, Fritz and Gretchen two or three curious bugs which engross them awhile. Then come the games, hearty, wholesome and merry, and then the sweetest music from the Professor's trombone, Conrad's clarionet, Ernest's violin and Fritz's sweet flute with all the charming voices in the chorus. What do you think of this domestic scene, busy, bustling, driving merchant? 
               Here are the domestic affections, the love of the beautiful and the useful all combined, and no doubt the exercises on Monday (this is Saturday) will be all the more vigorous and animating for this day's recreation, and the dear family love, will it ever be forgotten or dim in the Professor's household? 
               "No time for play," you answer. Your sons will find it then, your daughters will seek something that they call recreation; but the former will most likely be found in the haunts of dissipation, where a father's eye never penetrates; the latter in scenes of frivolity where an American mother is the leader, and no domestic life for the starving heart. We will join our party at the evening meal for the sun is sinking behind the Heilegenberg, and the vesper bells are ringing their soft chimes over the rippling water. 
               Plenty of good cheer, the Professor and grandfather Haller tell their stories to the stranger, full of slow wit and humor, and many a hearty laugh fills the summer-house over their evening repast. 
                
               The sport is over, the girls hastily gather up the crockery ware, run off with it to the hotel, and thoroughly refreshed, the party take to the boats, singing their evening songs as they cross the river. 
               How sweet it would be after all this domestic happiness, if there should follow the evening hymn, and the blessedness of prayer to sanctify the whole! 
               The Professor entertains his guest with music and conversation for the remainder of the evening; the ladies take their knitting and the children retire to another room to prepare for Monday's lessons. The aged heads of the family, like two old patriarchs, give their blessing and then seek an early rest, and the busy American has learned a lesson in this German household-will he profit by it? Monday morning finds him still a guest-soon after daylight, he hears a stir, the cheery voice of the little mother calling up her subjects, and soon active footsteps are heard running about, each one intent upon the task allotted. 
               Meeting at the breakfast table, he finds the children prepared for their school duties, everything orderly and systematic here as elsewhere. 
               Household duties performed, Bertha, Fritz and Gretchen set off to school, the boys to the University, Magda and Thekla taking their place beside their mother in her household cares. 
               A bee hive truly-and the American scarcely knows which to admire most, the queen bee, or the subjects of her realm. 
               But if he is a professing Christian, imbued with the spirit of his Master in any degree, he must regret the light profanity tolerated even here, and the free use of lager, which he knows must often lead to excess and intemperance. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE VINTAGE. 
               FRAULEIN PETERKIN has made a party for Bertha, for it is her fourteenth birth-day; quite an exception to the general rule, however, for her entertainments are for the poor. But she loves the sweet girl, and then she knows that very soon they must part, and so Fraulein has invited a dozen of her young friends. 
               Bertha looks lovely in her handsome blue dress, the gift of aunt Hildegarde, her beautiful blonde hair in its natural luxuriance left to flow over her shoulders. 
               Ernest thinks that there is none so sweet as that cousin of his, and she could not love a brother more fondly. 
               They had a grand time-Katerina's choice cakes and autumn fruits, her real good humored merriment, joining in all the childrens' sports with the hearty zest of a child's heart, and her happy way of managing the most wayward and spoiled child, generally harmonized all the parties; for if she could not, the little disturber of the peace was put aside in a room alone, until wisdom returned, solitude generally curing perverseness. 
                
               But Gretchen's love of fun often overcomes her better feelings, and we find her much to our sorrow and her shame, naughty girl! ridiculing not only the guests, but Fraulein herself. "Wasn't Mina Grimm's dress horrid? fiery red and black, and so trimmed up. I guess she thought herself somebody, but I thought about old Hans' red parrot, and I could hardly help calling out, "pretty Poll! pretty Poll!" Fritz laid back, and laughing replied: 
               "Did you see Martin Grimm's new suit? just like a man's; I had to run out two or three times to laugh at the goose." 
               "That's just what he is, Fritz, for the other day he couldn't tell Herr von Plannen where Liverpool is-there he sat like a great booby scratching his red head; just think of that." 
               "I was right glad when Fraulein shut him up; that will teach him better manners another time, than to want to rule us all, because he has a rich father." 
               "He has not much to be proud of, Fritz, for his father is a great fat fellow, swollen out with lager been and sausages, look! just so." And Gretchen puffed out her cheeks, and rolled about until Fritz held his sides with laughing. 
               "Did you see Fraulein's new gown?" said the child. "Didn't she look queer with that old fashioned trimming, and her black curls crisp as corkscrews, hopping about just like a toad, here and there as quick as a flash;" at the same time, the child made a most amusing imitation of her bustling gait. 
               "Comehere, Gretchen," said Grandmother Haller, a look of unusual severity stealing over her mild and saintly face; "get down by my side, and listen to me-do you know what you have been doing? ridiculing the best woman that lives in Heidelberg. Perhaps you don't remember when you had the scarlet fever, who it was that at the risk of her own life, came and stayed night after night by your bedside, nursing you so kindly, and then when you began to get better, sitting with you every day under the apple tree amusing your feverishness, or taking you out to ride. The doctor always said that it was Fraulein's faithfulness with God's blessing that saved your life." 
               Gretchen's head had been bowing lower and lower as the old lady spoke those words of truth, and now covering her face with her hands, big tears are stealing through her fingers. 
               "I forgot, grossmutter, do forgive me this time-I know that I ought to be ashamed of myself, but my love of fun gets the better of me." 
               "Then you ridiculed your companions-was that obeying our Lord's command to do unto others as we would have them do unto us?" 
               "That was not so bad as the other, grossmutter, was it?" sobbed the child. 
               "Not quite, Gretchen, but it was not according to the law of love." 
                
               The child was thoroughly subdued, and we will turn awhile to Bertha, who was giving an account of the party to the good mother. "It was just as pleasant as it could be, Aunt Mina, Fraulein had on a new dress and if it wasn't in the fashion, it looked well on her; we would not like her to change it now, for you know it wouldn't be the good Fraulein then; and she did run round so cheerfully trying to make every one happy, that I couldn't see how any one could make fun of her." 
               "Were the Grimms there, Bertha?" 
               "Yes, aunt, and I felt sorry for Martin, for he was dressed up like a little man, and they were all laughing at him-then you see that he got angry, poor little fellow! and Fraulein had to shut him up awhile, because he spoiled the plays; but when he came out, he asked her pardon so meekly, and joined in all the sports after that, like a little gentleman, so there is something good in Martin after all." 
               "You'll see it, Bertha, if any one can, I am sure," replied her aunt. 
               "And little Mina was so uncomfortable, her dress all trimmed up and so tight, she couldn't play like the others; and so I sat down with her, and tried to tell her stories, and she thanked me in such a pretty way, that I do believe she is a nice little thing. They were all good and kind to me, and every one of them, particularly Martin and Maria wished me ever so many happy returns of my birthday." 
                
               Aunt Mina kissed the rosy cheek, and said "God bless you, my dear Bertha; just keep this sweet childlike spirit, and you'll be a blessed one in this work-a-day world of ours." 
               Bertha had heard from her earliest childhood the beautiful story of the Christ-child of Bethlehem, and led by the Spirit that came with him, she had caught the blessed inspiration of the indwelling Christ, who came to bring "Peace on earth, good-will toward men." 
               A great lover of the Bible, she was a constant reader, studying most the life of Christ; unconsciously changed into his image day by day, while she not only worshiped and adored him as her Redeemer, but prayed and strove and labored to be like him. 
                
               But the season of the vintage is drawing near and the young people are to visit their cousin, living in a village on the banks of the Neckar, spending two or three days during the gathering of the grapes. Great preparations are going on, for it is what they most enjoy, but Magda, for the first time declines to be one of the party. 
               "I know the reason," said Fritz, "for Magda had a letter yesterday, and Leopold is coming." 
               She blushed and turned away. 
               "Won't you make the boy stop, mutter," said his sister. 
               "He means no harm, Magda; there is so much to correct in his really naughty pranks, that we won't notice such a little matter." 
               They set off in a large boat with awnings, for the sail was a half-day up the river. Conrad's manliness, Ernest's devotion to Bertha, Thekla's quiet pleasure, Fritz and Gretchen's joyousness, and Bertha's sunny temper all helped to make this a most delightful excursion. 
               Air after air followed the boat-song, and then, coming in sight of some of the old castles, came the legends so fascinating, each having one to tell. 
               Bertha whispered a few words to Ernest. 
               "You little goddess of truth," replied the youth, "how can you attempt to doubt these wonderful tales? They are the very charm of German stories Bertha, the more marvelous, the better." 
               "And yet you doubt the truth of so much higher and holier things, Ernest!" 
               "That's a different thing, Bertha." 
               "Yes, very different, cousin; they are only wild and romantic, but mine are high and holy, reaching into a brighter, better world." 
               "Very pretty, coming from your sweet lips, Bertha, but just pretty figments, that's all," and the boy drew himself up proudly. 
               But there is a sound of music, nearer and nearer full, rich, and inspiring. 
               "We are coming near the village," said Hans, "and that is one of the bands playing while they are at dinner." 
                
               Coming in sight of the peasants, the party enjoyed the picture before they landed. 
               Peasant girls in the old costume of three centuries back, and the young men all seated at one table partaking of their dinner, while underneath some shady trees, the band discoursed sweet music. 
               Just then, two arose from the table, recognizing the faces in the boat, Laneta Carlstadt and Berthold Mller advancing to meet them. 
               There were hearty greetings, especially between Conrad and Laneta, and Berthold advancing to Thekla, led her forward, not however without a whispered remonstrance from Bertha, for this was an acquaintance not agreeable to Thekla's parents. 
               Seated at the table, the strangers did full justice to the good fare, then hastening to Laneta's house, refreshed themselves before joining the party on their way to the vineyards. 
               Taking up their baskets, and singing a merry song, they were soon at work again, joined by our friends from Heidelberg. 
               The vesper bell, however, was the signal for closing the work of the day, and in their quaint costumes, their baskets laden with luscious fruit, the vintagers descended the hill, singing their German harvest song, Thekla still by the side of Berthold Mller, who having an aunt at the village was now on a visit with his sister Christine. 
               It was therefore with ill concealed pleasure that Thekla met the youth again. In close attendance, her partner in the dance, Theyla forgot her parents' interdict, and thought only of the present pleasure. 
               But Bertha was troubled, and when they had all retired for the night, stepped lightly into her cousin's room. 
               "I am so sorry, Thekla, that we should have met Berthold," said the young girl. 
               "I am not then," was the quick reply. "I do not believe one word of what is said against him; he has given up his foolish ways, for he told me so." 
               "But do you think it right to walk alone with him at night, without our parents, consent?" 
               "They'll never know anything about it, Bertha, unless you tell." 
               "That's the worst part, Thekla; dear aunt Mina is our best friend, and she never denies us anything that will make us really happy." 
               "I'm not going to think about what they will say, Bertha; I shall only be here one week, and I mean to enjoy myself for once; so you need not say another word." 
               Conrad and Ernest knew more about Berthold than their sister did, and were not slow to utter their warnings too. But all were unheeded by the vain, weak girl. The unexpected visitor had spoiled Bertha's pleasure however, and she was glad when the last day of the vintage arrived. 
               It had been a fine harvest, and on the last day, there was an especial demonstration of hilarity among the peasants, music and dancing closing the week. 
               But there was silent seed sowing, too, by youthful hands-years hereafter will show what harvest Thekla will gather from the seeds of deception and self-will. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE CONFIRMATION. 
               THE season of annual confirmation at the old church has come round again, and Doctor Eichenbrodt thinks that Bertha and Fritz are old enough to receive that rite of the Lutheran Church. 
               Fritz does not trouble himself much about it, he only knows that at a certain period his elder brothers and sisters are brought to that rite, and he supposes that the minister knows better than he. Then his good mother desires it, and that is a conclusive reason for Fritz, especially as no sacrifice is required in coming. 
               Not so with Bertha: she has read too much of the New Testament, and become too deeply imbued with the spirit of a young disciple to look upon any rite of the Church as mere empty forms, and so we find her by the side of grandmother Haller, seeking instruction upon the matter. 
               "I have been studying all through the Acts grossmutter, and I find that the apostles laid their hands upon the new converts, but they were disciples, all of them." 
               "Yes, mein liebling, and they came to renew their vows to be the Lord's, and to receive blessings at the hands of the apostles." 
               "All I want to know is, am I a real disciple? I cannot be satisfied to do as the young girls around Heidelberg do, just the same after confirmation as before; now I can't think that any rite of good Doctor Luther's Church means nothing more than a form." 
               "Study the words of the service, Bertha, pray to know the truth, and you will be guided aright." 
               "This much I am sure of, it does teach us to give ourselves entirely away to the Lord Jesus, to be his children, and his only." 
               "Have you done this, Bertha?" asked the old lady, looking upon the dear girl with a smile of love. 
               Fixing her earnest eyes upon the questioner's face, she replied in low, sweet tones: "Long ago, dear grossmutter; I have loved the Lord ever since aunt Mina began to tell me the story of the Christ-child and the angels." 
               "You will be welcome, mein liebling, you need not fear, I know the Lord means you when he says, 'Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not.'" 
               Many a serious hour of pleasant chat had the good minister with this lamb of the flock. He had read the deep blue eyes aright, when Bertha had sought his study to seek instruction at his hands; for if ever an indwelling Christ spoke out of the earnest eyes of childhood, its loving meekness inspired every look of this dear child. 
               Sunday morning came with its solemn service, and among the company that presented themselves for the rite, there were none more deeply in earnest than this sweet Bertha. 
               Aunt Mina thought of the coronet in waiting for the child of her love, but not an earthly crown; and Fraulein thought the same, for as they passed each other at the church door, the little lady said: 
               "I thought of Bertha's coronet, Mina, but not the one to be worn at Berlin." 
               "And so did I, Katerina; but it was a crown of goodness here, and one of glory there." 
               As the minister passed around among the youthful company, he felt that no more hearty consecration had ever been made, than that of this dear child in the old church. 
               The music was sweet and solemn and the hymn sang, expressed in strong language the feelings of Bertha's fresh young heart. Conrad and Ernest had forgotten that day in their young lives, but their cousin's sweet, serious face impressed them. 
               "It suits Bertha exactly," said Ernest to his brother, as they walked home together. "I should not love her half so well without her religion; it is so real in her." 
               It was real, for we find her following out so firmly and quietly her own convictions, in refusing to join their usual excursion over the river. 
                
               "Why do you wish to remain at home?" inquired her aunt. 
               "Because I am not sure that it is right; it seems to me, Aunt Mina, as if we ought to use these sacred hours in a holy way." 
               "We have always gone there on Sunday afternoon, Bertha; for then we are all together, and the boys cannot always be with us on week-days." 
               "I could not be happy; please let me stay with Meta-she is not well enough to go to-day." 
               And the crippled child stole her hand into her cousin's little palm, and kissing it, said: 
               "That's a dear, good Bertha; now we'll have a nice time together." 
               Bertha played some sweet hymns, and the two sang together; then she told some of her own pretty stories, under the apple tree in the orchard; the poor little cripple spending a happy afternoon with cousin Bertha; and very holy was the benediction resting upon the young girl as she laid her head upon her pillow, on that blessed Sabbath night. 
               Bertha, Fritz, and Gretchen all went to the same school, Fritz expecting to enter the university in the next year. 
               Not well grounded in the principles of the Christian faith, the two older boys fell an easy prey to the rationalism of the day; very grateful to human pride was the arrogance with which the professors dealt with sacred truths. Misled by the glitter of grandiloquent words, they had learned to look with a kind of pity upon what they called the superstitions of their childhood. Fond of dabbling in metaphysics, the boys talked much to their father about the learning of the professors; and being somewhat tinctured himself with the same philosophy, he was not a safe guide for boys that would think and reason too. 
               They had forgotten that while the Germans had made great discoveries in science, and excel in poetry and music, it would not answer to apply the same principles of critical analysis to immaterial as to material things. In the loftiness of their pride of intellect, the new teachers would dissect a soul, or the Deity himself, in the same manner as they would lay bare the veins and arteries of the human frame; and, in the supremacy of human folly, while they reject Divine revelation founded upon a rock, they believe in infinitely more contradictory things, wholly contrary to reason, in their multitude of superstitions which abound in German literature; for doubtless it is true that the most learned of these old professors have their pet superstitions which they hug in secret. 
               Many of these learned discussions did Bertha hear at Uncle Heinrich's, but she wore the shield of faith, and in her childish hand wielded the sword of the Spirit; so clad in Christian armor, the child of God was safe; she in her childish years, the good old people in their child-like simplicity, equally secure from all the assaults of the adversary. 
                
               One day Bertha was listening to Ernest and his father discussing some of these vain conceits, about the properties of matter, and the new theories that, in the nature of things, matter of itself must be constantly producing the beautiful forms seen in creation, without Divine agency. Suddenly she turned to her cousin, and asked, with innocent wonder: 
               "What are you talking about, Ernest?" 
               "About matter and its wonderful transformations," replied her uncle. 
               "What do you mean by matter, Uncle Heinrich?" 
               "The particles out of which all things in creation come." 
               "Where did matter come from, Ernest? can you tell me?" 
               The father and son looked at each other and smiled, but neither could answer the question of the simple-hearted child. 
               Laying one little hand upon her cousin's arm, with the other she pointed reverently upward, and in low sweet tones, she said: "I can tell you, Ernest, it was God; who else could it be!" 
               The sermon on the mount contained Bertha's theology, and studying its blessed precepts, she was daily growing up into the image of its divine teacher. 
               There was a great deal of talk in private about Bertha's character; few understanding the secret of what they called its contradictions. 
               The young people all looked upon the dear girl as wise beyond her years, and to Bertha they had learned to appeal in all questions of right and wrong, and yet there was about her all the sweet and humble docility which belongs to childhood, not the least assumption or the shadow of an attempt to set herself above her companions. 
               "You never seem to have any difficulty about the Bible, Bertha," said Ernest. 
               "Why should I, Ernest? I know that it is the word of God, and I remember what our Lord says about receiving the kingdom. 'Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein;' and so I believe every word that He has said without asking questions." 
               "It must be a happy faith, Bertha, and yet there are many things about it that I don't like." 
               "What, Ernest?" 
               "Your notions about Sunday, your fear of doing wrong; a sort of bondage, I should say." 
               Bertha opened wide her innocent eyes, saying: 
               "You don't know what sweet freedom obedience brings-I don't want to do anything that Jesus forbids; all I want to know is what He commands, and then it is my chief joy to do it." 
               "All a mystery, Bertha, I can't understand it." 
               "But you will some day, Ernest." 
               "How do you know?" 
               "I pray that you may, cousin, and Jesus says, 'whatsoever ye ask believing that shall ye receive; I can wait His time." 
                
               "My tutelar saint art thou, Bertha." 
               "And thou my own dear cousin, Ernest." 
               Bertha is always puzzled when the holy day comes round; for the universal customs of her country have a strong hold upon the practice of all her uncle's family. 
               There are her dear old grandparents and Aunt Mina, and the good Fraulein, who do not hesitate at all to join in the amusements of Sunday afternoon, and yet when she reads about the early Christians, she finds them making much distiction between the first, and other days of the week, then the Jewish Sabbath was so very strict, and Bertha argued mentally that the unchangeable God made those laws, and she could not find that the spirit of that institution had ever been changed. Then came round again the practice of so many good people, and so the young reasoner concluded not to meddle with her elders, but to follow her own convictions. To say the least, Bertha was puzzled. 
               Do go with us to-day, it is such a beautiful day," said Ernest. 
               "Please don't persuade me," said the young girl, "I shall be happier at home." 
               Ernest smiled-"O, if that is all, mein liebling, I will answer you on your own ground, for your great desire seems to be to make others happy, and I shall be miserable if you are not there." 
               "That is not all, Ernest, I can never be happy in disobeying the light that I have." 
                
               Ernest stamped his foot impatiently. 
               "Mein --, Bertha, confound that confirmation!" 
               She placed her hand upon his mouth, saying so seriously: 
               "Not that holy name, Ernest, I cannot bear to hear it used so lightly." 
               "Well, I'll try to mend my manners, but every body does the same, and that's the way we learn; even the little boys in the street follow their father's ways; but really, won't you go, Bertha!" 
               "I really cannot. Good bye, Ernest." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE BETROTHAL. 
               "ACH, mein schwester," said a merry voice, peeping over Magda's shoulder, who was reading a letter, "he is coming, ech! and we shall ahve a good time soon." 
               "Do be quiet, Fritz; was his sister's reply, as she slowly walked away to tell her mother that Leopold would be at Heidelberg on the following week. 
               A busy place was the House on the Heights in the interval, for it was the time appointed for the betrothal of the young pair. 
               Cousin Kathie was of course in demand, for neither betrothal nor wedding was complete without her presence. And then she was in her very element when thus employed. 
               Grandmother Haller, too, was a deeply interested party, and we find her ready with her good motherly counsels to the young girl in prospect of her new relations. 
               "Leopold is a fine fellow," said the old lady, "but I see that in the keen black eye that shows a strong will, Magda, and a high spirit." 
               "But a warm, generous heart, grossmutter," responded the young girl. 
                
               "Don't have any secrets from such a man, Magda." 
               "Secrets, grossmutter! I never have any, and I am sure that I could not dream of secrets with a husband." 
               "That's a good girl, Magda," said the old lady, "your grossvater and I have lived together nearly fifty years, and we never have had a secret from each other." 
               Magda did many curious things in the intervening time, and Fritz and Gretchen were highly amused when any blunder occurred. 
               Barbara was often out of patience with the young girl, and at last said to the little mother: "These young fraulein's have their heads turned the week before bethrothal: Magda has burned up the crullers and thrown out all the eggs that I beat up for the large cake; here, take her off, she is just in the way." 
               The mother laughed at Magda's confusion, and remembering her own mistakes under similar circumstances, told the young girl that she had better let Thekla take her place in the kitchen, and so quite crestfallen, poor Magda retired. 
               The day dawns at length, and late in the afternoon the young officer was seen hurrying up the orchard, Fritz and Gretchen running out to meet him. Magda had spied him too, but she had shot into a small room to hide herself. 
               The young man is in the midst, kissing hands all round, and a little surprised, asked for Magda. 
                
               "I'll bring her," said Fritz; the next minute leading his sister into the room, where amid blushes and confusion, the young officer kissed the extended hand of welcome, and then Magda sought a seat far off from the one so eagerly expected. 
               The young man stayed to supper and a very nice table was spread for his entertainment. But when the large cake was cut, Magda saw that something was the matter, and Fritz called out: 
               "What kind of stuff is this?" making at the same time a doleful face. 
               Much to her chagrin, Magda found that she had put salt into the icing instead of sugar, remembering that the two bags of sifted sugar and fine salt had been brought together, and in the hurry, not having been put away in the boxes, she had made this mortifying mistake. Magda's usually pale cheeks were crimsoned with blushes, and Leopold said, "Never mind, there are plenty of good things without the cake; it's a beauty anyhow!" 
               But the bashful fit was on the young girl, and not a word had she to say during the supper. 
               Assembled in the parlor, she attempted to light the gas, but in a few minutes, the room was filled with the odor, and Fritz called out: 
               "Who turned on the gas?" 
               "I lit it, Fritz," was Magda's reply. 
               "Where is the light, Magda?" asked the boy. 
               "I lit it, Fritz, I know that I took a match out of the safe." 
                
               "Yes, and here it is," said the boy, treading on the match, which flashed up under his boot. 
               "O, dear!" said Magda, "I suppose that I did not touch the jet." 
               It was an uncomfortable evening to the bashful girl. Fritz and Gretchen tittering in a corner of the room over Magda's blunders; much relieved, poor girl! when she found herself in her own room. 
               About midnight, footsteps and voices were heard coming up the orchard, and Magda peeping out, saw a company of students headed by Leopold, with music-stands and lights on the piazza. 
               Very delightful was the sweet music, and Magda could easily distinguish Leopold's fine voice above the rest. 
               Conrad and Ernest invited the young men into the house, and entertained them with lager, pretzels and cheese; while many a merry joke or hearty laugh broke the silence of the household; and then, after two or three fine pieces on the band, they retired. 
               Magda did not recover her presence of mind all next day, for Fritz and Gretchen teased the poor girl unmercifully. 
               Early in the evening, Magda was dressed, and the two young sprites declared that the white lily was just as lovely as any young girl at Heidelberg; and Fritz whispered: 
               "Leopold looks proud of our Magda, don't he?" 
               Leopold in his uniform, and Magda in her tasty dress, were an attractive couple. 
                
               Certificates of baptism, vaccination and ability to support a wife were laid upon the table, and then the marriage contract was read aloud, signed by the parties themselves and the friends assembled, after which the bridegroom presented a ring, and the pair received the congratulations of their friends. 
               Wine-drinking and dancing closed the evening. A singular abandonment of reserve might be seen after the ceremony, Leopold seating himself by the young lady, stealing now and then a sly caressing arm around the waist of the newly betrothed. 
               Leopold's parents gave Magda a warm welcome to their family, and ere they took their departure, obtained a promise from the young people to pay them a visit; the old gentleman giving Magda a hearty kiss, saying: 
               "Wilkommen, mein dochter." 
               The young officer had a furlough of four weeks, and determined to enjoy it to the utmost; accompanied by Thekla, they set out on the second day for the visitation of Leopold's relations, the reserve of the early days of courtship laid aside, and Thekla found herself in the position of a third party, quite forgotten in the presence of the lovers. 
               Magda was every where well received and loaded with presents for the young housekeepers, soon learning to become accustomed to the somewhat rough jokes of the elderly gentlemen of the different families. 
               On their return, a visit of a few days to the castle on the Rhine was proposed, and Bertha accompanied the party to her former home in the days of early childhood. There are many familiar objects there, and the young girl has some dim recollections of much that she meets on her tour through the old building. 
               The Baron had made quite a modern addition to the castle for the accomodation of his family in the summer season, and the first six years of Bertha's life had been spent there. 
               She certainly remembered the swinging cradle in the nursery, where she had often rocked her infant brother in the first years of his life. Then in her mother's room there was much to be remembered, for everything remained just as she had left it. 
               Very reverently, Bertha opened the drawers of her mother's work-table, turned the leaves of her Bible, and opening the piano, played some of the music from that dear parent's own book. 
               "Won't it be sweet, dear Magda, when I am of age, to come here in the summer time, and ramble over these hills-you'll shut up house and we'll stay all summer; uncle Heinrich and everybody, and Cousin Kathie, too." 
               Magda looked somewhat sadly at the young girl, for she knew that there was a probation before Bertha ere that day could come; but she said nothing. 
               Standing at the window of the high tower in the castle, Bertha said, as she looked out upon the lovely prospect: 
                
               "Conrad can sketch here to his heart's content such lovely pictures, and Ernest will write poetry and compose such beautiful music, Fritz and Gretchen will run about like wild goats, and Thekla will have to be helping Aunt Mina then, and I'll help everybody; won't we be so happy, so happy?" 
               Magda could not disturb the sweet dreamer, and so she said to herself: 
               "Let her be happy while she can." 
               Leopold and Magda spent two blessed weeks at the old castle, rambling alone amidst the romantic scenery, over the hills and along the banks of the lovely river, or rowing upon its placid bosom, enjoying for the first time the freedom of heart intercourse away from human eyes. 
               But on one of these rambles, Magda was surprised at seeing Thekla on a distant rock in company with a young man, evidently bent upon avoiding her sister, for the two arose, and taking a path up the hill, were soon out of sight in the deep forest. 
               When the sisters met later in the day, Magda asked who the young man was. 
               "It was an old acquaintance, Magda, and I don't wish to be catechised." 
               "It looked like Berthold Mller, Thekla." 
               "Suppose it was, what then? 
               "It would be very displeasing to our parents, Thekla." 
               "Why, I should like to know?" 
                
               "Because they have no confidence in his character, and would be mortified if they knew that you were rambling about alone with such a young man." 
               "They tell falsehoods about him; he is as good as Leopold, I am sure." 
               "Meeting him in this way is not respectable, Thekla." 
               "I am the judge of that-I see no use of all the strictness among the old people." 
               "They are our best friends, dear Thekla; don't encourage this young man without their approbation; you will be sorry if you do." 
               "I will not promise," said the wilful girl. 
               "You'll tell them that you have seen him, won't you, Thekla?" 
               "What for, sister Magda?" 
               "Just because we should conceal nothing from our dear mother." 
               Thekla turned away singing a light tune, and Magda from this time became uncomfortable in the neighborhood of Berthold Mller, very glad now that her visit was drawing to a close. 
               Once more in the domestic circle, and Leopold with his regiment, Magda set about the work of preparation in earnest, and cutting and fitting, knitting and stitching proceeded gaily, Cousin Kathie up to her eyes in business. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE PLAGUE SPOT. 
               THEKLA was well named the mimosa, yielding to every passing influence, good or evil; her transparent complexion ever changing, her soft blue eyes, her musical voice, her waving, timid step, all indicative of her unsteady character. 
               There is much about the young girl of an unusual character; frequent reveries, desire to be alone, and an entire loss of the gay spirit of former days. 
               The mother was much troubled, and when alone with Magda, spoke of her anxiety. 
               "I fear, dear mutter, that Thekla is encouraging private interviews with Berthold Mller," was the reply. 
               "What reason have you for thinking so?" 
               Then Magda related, unwillingly, the encounter in their visit to the Rhine. 
               The mother's heart sank within her, for she knew that Berthold was unworthy of the pure affection of a young maiden. 
               Just then Thekla passed through the room, having been out on an errand for Magda, which had detained her for a long while, and soon the good lady followed her to her own room. Seated with her back to the open door, deeply engrossed, she did not perceive the entrance of her mother until she stood close by her side, and said: 
               "You seem interested in your letter, Thekla; may I ask the name of the writer?" 
               A swift blush passed over Thekla's face, and casting down her eyes she replied: 
               "From an old friend, mutter," and after a minute's hesitation continued: "It is from Laneta Carlstadt, who wants to come to us on a visit." 
               She had told part of the truth, but had not added that it contained a letter from Berthold. Handing the former to her mother, which fortunately made no allusion to Berthold, she thought that she had escaped this time; but not so; for the good mother seated herself by her side, and Thekla was obliged to answer two or three straightforward questions. 
               "I am uneasy, mein dochter," said the faithful mother, "for I happen to know some things that must be explained. Who was it that was walking with you, on the banks of the river, last week, Thekla?" 
               "No one, mutter. There must be some mistake." 
               "Conrad saw you; he was near enough to distinguish Berthold Mller. How came you there together?" 
               "Oh! I remember now. I went out to take a walk, and Berthold was passing the same way; it was no harm just to walk a few steps with him, I suppose." 
               "It was harm, Thekla. He is not a proper companion for a girl as young as you. And your name is lightly spoken of, mein dochter; only yesterday Fritz heard Gotlieb Hurtz talking very freely about his sister Thekla; and when he called the boy to account, Gotlieb laughed at him, and said: 'You need not be so fierce, Fritz; for everybody knows that your sister is often seen with Berthold Mller; and I would not give much for a girl that walks alone with him.'" 
               Thekla pouted, and hung her head down with shame, not sorrow; shame that she had been detected, and angry that a restraint would henceforth be laid upon her actions. 
               Laying her hand quietly upon Thekla's arm, the mother continued: 
               "I would rather see you dead than the wife of such a man as Berthold; and then, Thekla, think how dreadful to have your pure maiden name taken so lightly upon the lips of street boys." 
               "Let them mind their own affairs, mutter. I can take care of mine." 
               "You have proved that you cannot, Thekla; for you know very well what is thought of a young girl who grants secret interviews, even to a good and proper man; we will take care of you henceforth, for we cannot see you disgraced." 
               No more walks alone for Thekla, for one of her brothers always accompanied her after this deception, and the young girl was sullen and gloomy enough. 
               Business is on the increase at the Professor's, and we find a tea-party of ladies assembled to help Magda; Fraulein Peterkin the most interested of all, flying round from one to the other, her black eyes sparkling, her merry voice chatting in her own lively way, and seated at length, she entertains the busy workers with accounts of the weddings that she has attended, and the elegant outfits that she has helped to make. Knitting and sewing, plain and ornamental, the ladies performed most excellent service, and the good Fraulein ran into the adjoining room, bringing out such beautiful pillow-slips and under clothing, equally neat and pretty. 
               "There, now! Magdalena von Rosenmuller will go to her young husband with as fine an outfit as the best in the land." 
               And the little lady bustled back again with her burden, tripping at the door, but helped to her feet by laughing, merry Fritz, who took the small figure up in his arms, and running round the room with her once or twice, he placed the good-humored Fraulein in her chair, she pretending to box his saucy ears. 
               "I am one of them, you see," said the lady laughing; "they forget that I am past forty, and so do I when I am among the children." 
                
               Bertha thought of the children of the kingdom; she was sure that Fraulein was one, and so she stole round to her side, and pressing a kiss on her cheek she whispered a word in her ear, and then ran off to help Aunt Mina. 
               Fraulein could not be still-not she; she knew that she was wanted in the supper-room, so away she bustled off to help set the table. 
               "What's the matter with Thekla?" said the lady, as she looked at her clouded face. 
               "I am not well, Fraulein," was the reply. 
               Placing her hand lightly upon Thekla's cheek, and feeling her pulse, she said: 
               "Feverish, mein liebling. I'll send you something to-morrow; you'll soon be better. But come now, help me with this table, that's a dear, and I'll help at your wedding, some of these bright days." 
               Her good humor was catching, and Fraulein's jokes and merry speeches were famous for driving away the blues; so we find Thekla yielding to its sunny influence, and flying around with Fraulein, busy as she. 
               "There! that's the last touch," said the little lady; "that's a grand supper; such light biscuit and hot pancakes, such coffee and doughnuts, such sausages and cheese, and nice tarts, and Magda's cake. I declare it is elegant." 
               The guests did ample justice to the nice supper, and when Fraulien tasted the cake, she turned round with a comical smile, as she said: 
                
               "No salt in the icing this time-ech! Magda." 
               Next day, Magda placed the finishing touches to a large stock of work, and looked with a happy smile upon the piles of bed and table linen, of pillow and bolster slips, of towels and under-clothing that were accumulating in the little side-room. 
               It is All Saints' Day, when relations go out to God's acre to decorate the graves of the departed; and so the streets are filled with people on their way to the resting place of the dead, with festoons and wreaths of flowers to lay upon these sacred mounds of sleeping dust. Thekla and Magda were among the company, for several sweet infants of the family lie there, and Bertha's own father and mother are among the sleepers. Fraulein too is there, and it is with feelings of reverence that the young people see her placing her festoon upon Rupert's grave, not forgetting poor Annita, the cripple that she had cherished so kindly, and whom she hoped to meet in the land where there are no crippled limbs, no clouded intellect, no forsaken ones. Thekla had disappeared, and they sought in vain for the wanderer. 
               Hours passed away, and there was great anxiety in the household; but toward evening, Conrad returned with his sister, having found her at the house of Berthold's cousin, in company with the young man, having no excuse to offer. 
               In the morning, grandmother Haller called the young people around her, ready with one of her stories, and they highly pleased with the prospect. 
               Even the boys listen attentively, accordingly, we find every member gathering around the storyteller; Meta leaning on her lap, Bertha on one side, and Magda on the other; Gretchen too, with eager eyes and attentive ears; Thekla, however, somewhat aside from the rest, having her own suspicions about the subject. 
               "My story is called the plague spot," said the old lady, "and when I have done, I shall be glad if either of you can explain its meaning,-so listen and think, mein kinder. 
               In a far country there lived a proud mother, who had one beautiful daughter named Otelia-faultless features, complexion and hair; a figure of perfect symmetry; a voice of the greatest sweetness; no wonder that the mother was proud of her darling. After awhile a small spot appeared upon Otelia's forehead, increasing in size and deepening in color, until it became a serious blemish on the young girl's beauty. The mother tried various ways to cure it, all sorts of cosmetics and ointments, and baths, but all without effect. 
               She applied also to many physicians, but none could tell what it really was. One day, an old woman knocked at her door. 
               The mother invited her in, treated her kindly, and gave her meat and drink. But all the while, her eyes were fixed upon the spot on the young girl's face, and asking, "What caused it?" the mother described it, and told how many things she had tried in vain. The fairy told her that no outward application could relieve her, for the seat of the disease was deep within. She then told of a great physician who lived in a far country, but had heard of the terrible plague that was slowly destroying so many. 
               He felt that he alone could cure it, and so he came from the blessed home where he dwelt as a great and happy prince, and came down to the distant country to destroy the plague. It must be done by washing in a fountain of blood, deep enough for all the afflicted to wash in and be healed. He was a mysterious being, and none had ever been in the distant country like unto him, but he knew the cure. In order to have a fountain deep enough, he must shed his own blood. He was such a wonderful prince, that he only could fill the fountain, for when his blood began to flow, it would never cease, and yet he would still be alive. 
               None could find their way to this fountain, but by a lantern which he would furnish. The old woman then handed the lantern to Otelia, but she sneered at the fairy, did not believe in her directions, and would not obey. 
               The fairy told her that if she refused, the spot would become larger and larger, until it would cover her whole body, and then corruption would commence, and piece by piece, she would drop away. She was still unbelieving and perverse, the fairy took away the lantern and the curse descended. The mother tried all sorts of cures; the fairy had disappeared, the lantern was gone, the plague spot spread and spread; piece by piece the beautiful Otelia crumbled away, and the mother mourned her child's perverseness when it was too late." 
               Looking around grandmother Haller inquired: 
               "Now who can read me my story?" 
               "I think that I can, grossmutter," replied Bertha; "the plague spot is the taint of sin, the fairy represents our teachers; the lantern, the Holy Spirit; and the great prince our own dear Lord and Saviour; the fountain is his precious blood; the cure proposed by the fairy must be applied by faith, which Otelia had not." 
               "You are right, mein liebling." 
               "I did not see it," said Gretchen. 
               "Did you, Thekla?" asked the old lady. 
               "I understood some of it, but I did not listen to all the story," was the low reply. 
               Dismissing the rest, grandmother said in a kind, loving voice: 
               "The plague spot is within your own heart, Thekla; that proneness to deceive which will destroy all moral beauty-nothing but the fountain of a Saviour's blood can cure the malady which afflicts all the children of men; good night, mein dochter, remember the story." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               MAGDALENA'S SECRET. 
               THE winter has fairly set in, the fierce winds howling and whistling through the mountain gorges around Heidelberg. Ice and snow are plenty, and the boys and girls in their woolen mufflers, caps and mitts, are sliding and sledding down the hills, in spite of the biting winds. 
               Anxious to give little Meta all the pleasure she can, Bertha wraps her up in her warmest coverings, her pale face just peeping out of her woolen cap, and seated in the most sheltered place, she watches the winter sports, and now and then, in brother Fritz's sheltering arms, the child has a ride down the hills over the crisp snow. 
               All day long, and often in the night, the gay sleighs with their lively parties fly through the streets, decorated with silver serpents and bright scarlet tassels, the bells with their merry jingles keeping the streets alive with animated life. 
               There is not much to call the dwellers on the Heights to the windows looking out upon the orchard, but the skaters on the Neckar attract them to the other side of the house. 
                
               Skaters of all ages and both sexes may be seen any day enjoying the exhilarating sport on the river, performing their graceful evolutions; the novices affording rich amusement in their tripping and tumbling upon the glittering surface. The von Rosenmullers are not always spectators, for they are all skaters, and grandmother and little Meta enjoy the sight from the windows. 
               It is grand fun when the good Fraulein joins the party, for she is fond of out-door sports, and Fritz often seizes her hand, and whirls off with her in his wild gambols in spite of her calls to stop. 
               With this wintry season come thoughts and plans for Christmas, the bride-elect especially interested, as she says, somewhat sadly, that it will be her last at home. 
               She is going to make it a happy time, and it is observed that sister Magda goes out more frequently than usual, always coming home with a bundle which she deposits mysteriously in Blue Beard's room, as she terms the little side apartment; careful to turn the key when she comes out. 
               Such capering and hiding, such stitching and knitting, clipping and cutting, pasting red paper and blue, pink paper and green, such dropping of spangles here and there, make the House on the Heights a busy place, full of mystery, each trying to conceal from the rest their mighty secrets; terribly burdensome to Fritz and Gretchen. 
               Purses and cuffs, lamp-rugs and slippers, neckties ties and collars, gew-gaws of filagree, colored balls, little angels, candy horsemen hiding everywhere: behind bureaus, under the bed, in large boxes and small in fancy baskets, and market baskets, in anything that affords a place of concealment. 
               Such whispering, and nods, and winks, and tittering among the children; Fritz and Gretchen often shut up at their mysterious work; suddenly alarmed, Gretchen puts up her little finger and whispers "Hush! somebody is coming!" and Fritz hustles the work away, and locks up their treasures. 
               Stores are crowded now, people coming home laden with bundles, hobby-horses riding through the streets; every one full of the excitement of the great German holiday. 
               Fraulein is one of the most active, for even with her moderate means, her habits of economy enable her to do much to make young ones happy, for she always has a Christmas tree for poor children. Saving her colored balls and other ornaments from year to year, by the addition of some red berries, moss and evergreens, and her own inventive powers, she always has one of the happiest parties in Heidelberg at her house. 
               Fritz and Gretchen are ready to help Cousin Kathie, and it is he who brings in her fir tree, and contributions from the woods; Gretchen perched upon the wagon, hooded and gloved and wrapped up in wool, and fur, but quite triumphant. 
                
               Magda, however is the most deeply occupied and it is her little room that excites most curiosity among the children; peeping through the key-hole, and speculating in a wonderfully wise way about the pretty things hidden there; Gretchen the little witch, declaring that "She wouldn't look in for all the world, not she! no indeed!" 
               It has been a stormy day, with snow and sleet, followed by one of those winter evenings, when the children like to gather round the great stove in the sitting-room, listening to the howling storm without, with such a sense of security as one feels under such circumstances. Fritz is cleaning his skates, Meta nursing her pet kitten, Bertha is knitting, and Magda busy with beads and silk and gold thread, but no one must guess what she is making. Grandmother Haller in the midst is knitting too, and grandfather enjoying his pipe. 
               "Come, grossmutter, the very night for a story," said Fritz. 
               "O yes, a story!-just the night!" echoed Gretchen, drawing up closer to the sunny old lady, the little mother smiling at the domestic picture. 
               Encircling the family story-teller, the group are all eagerly waiting. 
               "Well, mein kinder, what shall it be?" 
               "The story that you promised," said Bertha, "the story of the Krist-kindlein." 
               "Well, well! never tired of the old, old story; now listen. There is an old saying that the Kristkindlein kindlein comes down again and goes about from house to house, among the good children. I don't say that this is really so, but that is the ground work of my story. 
               One Christmas eve, not very long ago, two children were standing out on the front piazza, where they could have a good view of the winter sky. It was clear, cold, and cloudless; and the stars shone out in their beauty upon the landscape. 
               "I wonder if the Krist-kindlein will come tonight?" said one to the other. 
               "I think he will, for he has came to our house every Christmas ever since I was born." 
               "Did you ever see him, Franz?" said the little girl. 
               "No-but Hans Grocbel, the fisherman, says that he did once, and Aunt Ludwig has ever so many stories about him." 
               Suddenly a bright light appeared above their heads, shooting down as swift as lightning towards the earth, disappearing at the horizon. 
               "There! there, Franz! what is that?" said the sister, "I wonder if he comes in that ball of fire." 
               "It was too small," said Franz. 
               "It was so far off, that was the reason it looked so small-but listen, Franz! there is music. I wish that it was the heavenly host; it seems as if it came from heaven, brother." 
               "Look up at the steeple, Lena, there are the musicians." 
                
               And sure enough a band of singers, with remarkably fine voices, and some sweet horned instruments, had mounted to the belfry, to sing the beautiful Christmas carols. It is true, that the children were rather disappointed by the Krist-kindlien and the angelic music, but nevertheless, many said that the heavenly visitor really came on that bright night, and went about from house to house in Heidelberg. 
               There had been many dreams among the young folks for the last few nights, and it was easy to believe the pretty legends of the Krist-kindlein, and this is what one of our great story-tellers says: that on that very night, the Krist-kindlein came in the form of a bright, beautiful boy, with long auburn hair and the softest hazel eyes, with the sweetest smile that ever lit up the face of childhood. With him came an angel, a beautiful, strong angel, on their errand of love. The bells were ringing out their merry peals from every belfry in the city; the ground was covered with crisp snow; the sleighs with their silver bells flying in every direction; the shop windows brilliantly lit up, and filled with all sorts of beautiful shining toys; the windows of all private houses illuminated too; the streets filled with people and their children, many a little urchin stepping up to the windows to peep in at the happy families within. 
               Above this crowd, floated the Krist-kindlein and the angel, but the people did not see them in the clouds:-descending now and then, the Krist-kindlein would stop at doors that he was about to enter, but the angel said: "Not there, there is discord among them;" and so they passed on, for the loving Krist-kindlein could not press a kiss upon the cheek of such. Then they came to another, and more humble home-looking in through the window, there was a poor widow and her son, a boy of eight, their faces shining with happiness. The home was very poor and lonely, but a picture of neatness. On the table stood a small fir tree, with a few colored candles, a few bright balls, some bright red apples and sugar toys, and on the top with outspread wings a candy angel. 
               The two did not seem to walk as the children of men did, but with a gliding motion moved along, passing through doors without opening them; and thus they stood suddenly before the astonished pair, a soft halo around the head of the beautiful boy, and a bright smile upon his lovely face. 
               "You are very happy," said a sweet voice, "on this Christmas eve." 
               "We ought to be," replied the mother, "when it is the eve of our dear Lord's birth-day." 
               "You seem very poor," continued the voice. 
               We have our daily food and clothing, and we want no more." 
               "But your next door neighbors have every thing that riches can give." 
               "Yes," said the mother, "but without Christ-we have him; and don't you see this beautiful fir tree? It was sent to us by one of His dear servants, so you see that we have friends too." 
               "Where does that good friend live?" inquired the voice. 
               "It is the good Fraulein Peterkin, everybody in Heidelberg knows her-she has a Christmas tree to-night for the children of the poor; Johannes has been sick and could not go out on such a cold night, so she sent us this pretty tree, and a goose with all its dressing and onions, and a mince pie, for our Christmas dinner-ought we not to be happy? but I wish that I could see the one that speaks such kind words." 
               "That cannot be now," said the angel, "but will be seen hereafter, so be content." 
               The Krist-kindlein then kissed the two upon the forehead, and then passed silently out, to search for the good Fraulein. 
               That was a blessed kiss, for with it came the spirit of the Christ-child; the love, the joy and the peace of heaven; for these are truly the children of the kingdom. 
               Passing on, they came to the good Fraulein, whom they found in the midst of her group of happy children. A large fir tree stood on the table glittering with colored balls and candles, and decorated with every variety of pretty things made of gilt and silver paper, by Fraulein's own hands, assisted by numerous young friends ready to help one who was always anxious to increase the happiness of others. 
               Then she had gathered many comforts, so that none would go away without something substantial from the Christmas tree. They were all sparkling, but none so bright and merry as the good Fraulein, and the Krist-kindlein pressed his kiss upon her brow, and left the same blessing upon all whom she pointed out as loving and good. 
               Forty-five years old, but the Christ-child dwelt within that heart with all the freshness of youth, and when she lay down upon her pillow on that Christmas eve, it was with the sweet kiss of benediction flooding her warm, loving heart. 
               And so all that night passed round the angel and the Krist-kindlein, and ere the errand of love was ended, the day had dawned, and many a kiss was left upon the sweet faces of the young sleepers, dreaming happy visions about the coming day, and the joys of the bright Christmas season. 
               It is true that none had seen the faces of the two, but who can doubt that just such spirits are present in all places where the spirit of holy, heavenly love animates the household. 
               Grandmother laid down her knitting, for her story was done. 
               "That is a beautiful story," said Magda. 
               "Yes, mein liebling, and it may be true with us all, if we will have it so; we may all have that blessed kiss of the Krist-kindlein." 
                
               "I know one that he has kissed," said Fritz, looking round at Bertha. 
               "And I know another," said Bertha, caressing the hand of the story teller. 
               "I wish that he would kiss me," said little Meta. 
               "Perhaps he has already, mein liebling," replied the old lady, for she had often said that Meta was one who would be called away early. 
               Magda's secret was developing rapidly, not dreaming that Bertha had one, too, that no one knew anything about but Fraulein Peterkin. 
               Fraulein, too, has her hands full, for she is helping Doctor Eichenbrodt get up his Christmas tree. It is the custom of the good man to have one every season at the minister's house, that he may with his own hands bestow some gifts of love upon the poor of his flock. 
               There are many old and helpless people in the congregation, and Fraulein has been for some weeks interesting those well off to aid in providing warm hoods, woolen stockings, and mit sand scarfs, with flannels, too, for the needy. 
               She has the promise, too, of several fine geese, dried apples, onions, cabbage, and apples, that all may have Christmas at home. Papers of tea and coffee, of sugar and rice, are among the promised donations, for no one refuses Fraulein; she is such a kind, good soul. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               CHRISTMAS EVE. 
               EXPECTATION day-the school boys are in high feather, for St. Nicholas' day is a time of fine sport, when the urchins are allowed to switch their teachers, paying off old scores. 
               Fritz and Gretchen are in a gale of fun, he cutting his rods, she looking on with full approbation, for she remembered many of her brother's castigations at school. 
               "I tell you, Fritz, that is a bunch of stingers;" said she, "I hope Konitz will get a good share." 
               The party on the balcony are laughing heartily at the energy with which the boy is working, for his idle habits had brought him into many scrapes at school, and he had heavy scores to pay off. 
               Shaving off the bark, giving it a flourish, and then a stout blow with his bundle of switches, he called out: 
               "That's for Konitz; I'll warm him well; he shall have ten, just so," and suiting the action to the word, Fritz belabored an apple tree that represented the young teacher. 
               "And that is for Schwob," giving ten for him, "and that's for the master; one will do, and a light one too, for he is a good old fellow." 
               Tying his bundle with a piece of ribbon, Fritz looked up at the party on the balcony, and flourishing his bundle of switches, set off to the scene of action where all the boys had assembled. Received civilly, they are in a hurry to get through their sport, for there is grand fun in store elsewhere for them. The row commences, and the boys lay about them at a great rate. 
               The master begs off, and the boys are all contented with just one light strike at him, for he is a popular person with them all. 
               But the younger teachers do not fare so well, two of them being especially tyrannical. 
               Jumping over and under benches and desks, the boys pulling at their coat-tails, several voices are heard calling out, "to give it to Konitz and Schwob;" who had been most lavish with their castigations. 
               The master sees that no evil passions are fostered (or at least he supposes so), and bringing the sport to an end, all shake hands, the boys are patted on the head and complimented for their zeal and activity, the master addressing Fritz especially. 
               "We must see to you, mein sohn. I find that there is plenty of strength in your arm, and where there is such a fund of animal spirits, there must be brain power too; so we'll bring it out, mein sohn." 
               Fritz knew what that meant, and he really did believe that it was time to turn over a new leaf if he expected to enter the university next year, so we leave him making all sorts of good resolutions. 
               But this is very doubtful sport, to say the least of it. 
               Expectation day still, for St. Nicholas pays his annual visits to the young ones, and they are looking for him at the House on the Heights; little Meta jumping at every noise, for she is a timid little thing, and wishes that St. Nicholas would not come. 
               But there is a sharp loud knock at the door, and Fritz runs to open it. 
               The live goblin enters, a ferocious looking fellow, six feet high, wearing a mask with a very long red nose and chin, goggle eyes glaring and fierce, with a long beard and moustache, the snapping of his nose and chin together most terrible to poor little Meta, who keeps close to grandmother. He is dressed in a great fur coat, hanging in loose folds to his feet, fantastically decorated. About his waist, he wears a belt to which are hung three great bags of apples, nuts and cakes. 
               The monster roars, at which little Meta trembles, but the rest only laugh. 
               "Show me all the bad children," says the goblin, munching nuts, and flourishing his bunch of switches. 
               None are brought forward. 
               "No bad ones here, mein Herr? I am glad that these children are always good; that is beautiful, that is fine; come here, children." 
                
               All are silent, but none come forward. 
               Some try to hide under the sofa, some behind chairs; then he begins to coax a little, and after awhile, gets them into a circle (little Meta excepted), dodging whenever he comes near one. Then follows the catechizing about their lessons at school; then he throws apples, cakes and nuts on the floor. 
               With merry shouts they scramble for them, the monster laughing and roaring at the fun, which sets all the youngsters to laughing too, part in fear, part in fun. 
               He pretends to be very angry, begins to switch up and down the room, hopping, skipping, and jumping, tearing about like a madman let loose. Such roaring and screaming is seldom heard, and poor little Meta, crying with fear, has to be led away. 
               Thus ends the visitation of St. Nicholas. 
               But Christmas Eve, the great holiday, is here. 
               It is a genuine Christmas; the ground covered with crisp snow, the hills alive with boys and girls in their jingling sledges, and the river with graceful skaters. The bells are pealing out their merry chimes, crowds are running to and fro making their last purchases, lights gleaming in every house, parlors dressed with evergreens and Christmas trees, spangled all over with toys and candles, the smell of mince pies and doughnuts filling every house. 
               Jingling sleigh-bells, merry voices, multitudes of carriages, light, music, glitter meets us every where. 
               Very little supper is eaten on that Christmas Eve at the House on the Heights, for the children are waiting for the summons to the mysterious room. 
               Carefully locked out all day, Fritz and Gretchen have spent the hours in wondering what the presents will be. 
               "There's the bell," shouted Fritz, and, giving Gretchen a twirl or two, he seized her hand, and they entered the enchanted room. 
               Surprise and delight at the glittering spectacle sealed their mouths for awhile, but at last, tossing up his cap, Fritz cried out: 
               "Three cheers for our Magda. Three cheers for the white lily." 
               It was given with a hearty good will, the Professor joining in the plaudits. 
               The room was tastefully dressed with evergreens. Over the door, in gilt letters, surrounded by gilt stars, were the words, "And they shall call His name Jesus." 
               On the table stood a large fir-tree, crowned with an angel dressed in gold and silver lace, covered with colored balls and wax-tapers, flooding the room with light. 
               A doll for Meta, a cradle and a carriage; lots of sweet things for grossvater, who laughed heartily at his gift, while they all hugged and kissed the dear old man until the tears ran down his withered face. There was another directed to Herr von Rosenmuller, which he cautiously opened, and found also a box of candy. Pulling open a large lozenge, out jumped a frightful little wizard, with a woolly head and a big red nose, shaking his tiny fist at the Professor, the children clapping their hands in roars of laughter. 
               But, amidst all this fun, there were many useful gifts to each other; Magda's the most abundant and valuable, many of which were from Bertha, who had given largely out of her monthly allowance. 
               But after the gifts are all distributed, Bertha is missed. "Where is she?" is the question passed around. "Ernest is gone, too. What in the world does it all mean?" said the little mutter. 
               "I guess I know," said Meta, "for Bertha told me her secret, and I have kept it all this while. She has gone to Holspecker's to leave Christmas there. You know that the father has been sick for nine months, and the poor frau has hardly bread to give her children. Bertha has been taking something every week, and she says that the children are so good that almost all her work has been for them." 
               After the lapse of an hour, the two returned, Ernest whispering to his mother: 
               "Didn't I know that the Krist-kindlein had kissed Bertha? for if any one of us poor mortals had the spirit which is said to belong to him, she has it. Some holy one has kissed our Bertha; I wish it were only I," said the speaker, somewhat apart. 
               And now, while the young girl was out of the room, Ernest told what they had taken to the Holspecker's-"a goose with plenty of sour-crout and onions, sausages and mince pies, and dried apples, and prune tarts-a bundle of clothes, too, and toys for the children, and we left them crying and laughing for the joy that Bertha brought." 
               Just then, in stepped Fraulein, her face beaming with joy. 
               "I wish that you could have seen my tree, mein kinder," said the lady, "and all the happy children that gathered around it. I had to work hard to dress it this year, for some of the pretty things were broken last Christmas; and then I must always have something useful, for they are all poor children. But I am on my way to Dr. Eichenbrodt's; who will go with me?" 
               "I will, Fraulein," said Bertha, hurrying on her wrappings. 
               Chatting merrily along the icy streets, the two were soon at the minister's house, brightly illuminated for the joy of the Nativity, and stepping into the family room, none were more happy than the good Fraulein, whose little feet had trotted up and down many a street in Heidelberg, helping the minister to gather the good things there; nearly always successful, for who could refuse such a bright, cheery little soul as Fraulein? 
                
               Did not Herr von Brunt remember how she nursed little Franz through the scarlet fever? and so he laid in her basket six pairs of warm woolen stockings, and six caps, too, for the poor people. 
               And Herr von Zandt, the stingy old fellow! he could not forget how she waited upon his good frau with the quinzy, such a comfort was her presence in the time of their trouble, to mutter and the kinder. And so he said: 
               "There are six pounds of sausages, and three pounds of dried apples; a great gift, Fraulein;" and he looked with a sorrowful face upon the donation, counting the price upon his fingers, repeating once more, "a great gift, Fraulein." 
               But she is paid for her labors of love. There in that bright room, in the midst of the Christmas green, stand the minister and his good frau, by the side of the beautiful tree laden with gifts for the children of the church. 
               The little lady laughs at the shy things, as with bashful faces and timid steps they take their turn around the tree, each receiving a bag of sugar plums and another of doughnuts from the hands of Frau von Eichenbrodt, and a pair of warm mitts, two pairs of woolen stockings, and a cap of the same from the minister. 
               Then the old people came up for their share, each receiving winter comforts from the minister. 
               Fraulein said: "It was so beautiful to see his hands giving these nice things; this was indeed 'peace and good will to men;' this was real music; the room full of the greetings of 'merry Christmas,' passing around from mouth to mouth." 
               No wonder Fraulein was happy as a singing bird, for she had brought in the eight geese, the dried apples and the mince pies, for eight of the poorest of the church people. It was a heart warm hymn that they sang together, minister and people brimful of the Christmas joy, the spirit of the Christ-child shining in the eyes of the minister, his frau and the good Fraulein, who shook the withered hands of those who carried off the geese, for she knew, though they did not, how many steps she had taken to provide this Christmas dinner. 
               Home again under the light of the placid moon, that shone upon them so beautifully as they talked together of the blessedness, not of receiving, but of giving; for to such spirits the latter is the higher joy. 
               "How did you gather so much, Fraulein?" inquired Bertha. 
               "I could not have done the half if it had not been for the students at the university, for I have plenty of friends up there." 
               "Let us hurry in," said Bertha, who had now reached the gate; "there is the music! don't let us miss that." 
               It is quite a question whether any house in Heidelberg had such a concert as the one on the Heights, for all joined in the sweet carols, the dear old people listening hand in hand, and wondering if they would all spend another together in this lower world. 
               There is to be a grand performance to-night at the Catholic church, and the young folks begged permission to go to the midnight mass. 
               "Only once a year," said Ernest, "and you know, father, that there is no danger of making me a Romanist." 
               "I would like to hear the music," said Bertha, "but there is the mass, and that is idolatry. I am afraid that it is not right to be present, and so I must be content to-morrow with our simpler music." 
               But while the rest were away, the Professor sought out all the Christmas music, and accompanying Bertha with his fine voice, they spent a most delightful hour waiting for the return of the others. 
               It was one o'clock before they showed their faces, and wishing each other a "merry Christmas," the family retired to their rest, the Christmas angels not far off from several in that household, the Krist-kindlein of peace and love glowing in their hearts. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE BROKEN LILY. 
               THE wedding day is drawing near, Cousin Kathie in great demand; running to and fro from the neat house near home, which is being furnished for the pair; for Leopold's term of service being nearly out, he is to settle down at home with his young bride. 
               There is no reserve now on the part of the young girl, and so we find her daily superintending arrangements, as though she were already mistress of the domicile. 
               One of Cousin Kathie's great pleasures is in putting away the house-linen, Leopold's parents having added to the stock. Fine linen and strong cotton, and ruffled pillow slips, all so beautifully marked with Magda's initials. 
               "Mine was all ready, too," said the good Fraulein, wiping a tear from her eye; "not such a stock as this, Magda, but a good supply for a young pair, and we used to rejoice over our happy prospects; but it was not the will of our Father that Rupert and I should dwell together here below; but we shall find each other in the world above, mein liebling, where there is no more parting." 
                
               It was not often that Fraulein alluded to the sorrowful past, and with her usual unselfishness we find her drying her eyes; and putting on her cheery face again, she set about her work, for she would not dim Magda's happiness by her sorrows. 
               Magda's wardrobe was a subject of much admiration, too; for, being the first to marry, she had as neat an outfit as could be desired for a young maiden. 
               The kitchen, however, is Fraulein's special delight; standing with her arms akimbo, admiring the polished tins that hung upon the walls, or graced the shelves of the apartment. 
               "I don't know the uses of all these pans and kettles," said the lady; "for there are heaps of things invented since my young days; but I am right glad to see that you have everything so nice and handy; and then, Magda, you have had such a good training, that you know all about cooking, and preserving, and pickling, and can make your husband a comfortable home." 
               "I am glad that it is so, Cousin Kathie; for Leopold likes a neat house and plenty of good things." 
               Bertha has a monthly allowance, and has purchased a beautiful clock for the family room, and other presents from family friends are arriving daily. 
               Now comes the cake-baking, and Cousin Kathie is up to her eyes in the culinary department. Such sifting of flour and sugar, such beating of eggs, stoning raisins and washing currants, accompanied by the musical rattling and laughing of young spirits, under these joyful circumstances, make the kitchen a merry place just now, and call Fritz and Gretchen out to the party. But they are permitted to come no farther than the door, Barbara threatening to pin a dish-cloth to Fritz's coat-tail, if he ventures a step beyond. 
               "Just give me six tarts," said the boy, "and I'll be off like a flash." 
               "There are two, you saucy chap; now be off," said Barbara," or I'll empty the dredging-box over you." 
               Magda was somewhat out of patience, and her measured step across the kitchen indicated the temper of her mind just then, and Fritz, folding his arms over his breast, and throwing up his his head in soldierly style, said mockingly: 
               "Don't let Leopold see that military step, Magda, or he'll find out that he has married a young lieutenant, instead of a sweet young lady." 
               "He is a dreadful pest," said Magda, as she closed the door upon him, and returned to her business at the table. 
               It was Bertha's place to deck the parlor with evergreens, worthy of the sweet bride, whose nuptials were near at hand. 
               The wedding is to be at the church, the young pair to return to the entertainment at home, after which they were to take possession of their own pretty homestead. 
               Magda is dressed, waiting up stairs for the arrival of the bridegroom; very sweet is her appearance, although somewhat pale and anxious. 
               The time fixed for Leopold's arrival has long since passed; the buzz of lively conversation is subsiding in the parlor, anxious looks stealing over the faces of the guests. The Professor is very uneasy, and has gone several times to the door to see if there is any sign of the bridegroom. At length there is a disturbance outside, and, hurrying to the piazza, the Professor is shocked by the sight of a company of men, bearing a prostrate man in uniform on a litter, slowly moving up the apple orchard. 
               At the same moment there is a fearful shriek up-stairs, for Magda has seen the vision from the window. 
               Clasping his hands, the father points hastily to a side door; but it is too late. Magda, in her bridal attire, comes rushing down-stairs to see the body of her betrothed stretched in death before her. 
               She has raised one hand to her forehead, the other is stretched out to her mother, unable to move or close the staring eyes which are perfectly rigid in their stony gaze. 
               The father lays the poor girl on the bed, unable to move the iron arms from their position. Ernest has flown for a physician, and the house is a scene of confusion and distress. 
                
               Leopold had started on horseback, thinking to reach Heidelberg sooner; but the animal was one with which he was unacquainted, and proved to be a vicious creature. 
               Riding rapidly, he had taken flight, and, running off, had fallen with his rider into a ravine near the city; the ill-fated bridegroom being instantly killed. 
               The physician pronounced Magda's attack to be catalepsy, and, speechless with grief, the poor girl was frightful to behold; her stony eyes fixed upon vacancy, her right hand still pressed with an iron hold upon her forehead, her left arm still extended. 
               The guests slowly and sorrowfully departed, and the broken lily lay in her helpless grief, stunned by a fearful blow. 
               Out of the Christmas joy, with its angel voices, into the grief of a Dolorosa, glided the silent household. 
               The first grief in the Professor's family, it was a heavy one; and now Fraulein's tender sympathy and skillful nursing were to the afflicted ones an unspeakable blessing. 
               The poor young man was laid to rest in God's acre, the pretty home was shut up, and every one's deepest interest centered in Magda, who still lay in the same rigid state of stony unconsciousness, taking a little nourishment through a quill. The best physicians of Heidelberg were called in. The sudden shock of the nervous system had caused this fearful state, but there was hope of the final results. Even under the treatment of the most powerful remedies, it was days ere any change took place; but one day the physician found that the hand upon the forehead was relaxing its grasp, and finally he was able to bring it down to its natural position; but there it remained, with the very slightest motion of the fingers. 
               But this was hopeful; in a few days the hand moved, and in a short time performed its natural functions. 
               Just as gradual was the restoration of the left arm; but the rigid features and stony eyes remained; and the friends of the broken lily feared the wreck of reason finally. 
               But one day, as Fraulein was sitting alone by the bedside, she was sure that she heard a deep sigh; yes, it was repeated, and the eyes moved slowly in their sockets; no sign of intelligence, however, lit up the once expressive face; just a sigh, and then the eyes closed slowly, and Magda was certainly in a soft, natural sleep. The physician was summoned, and entered the room smiling. 
               "Thank God!" ecxlaimed the kind man; "now close the shutters, let every one move about the house silently, muffle the bell, and keep perfect quiet; everything depends upon this quiet slumber; do not be alarmed if she sleeps all day, and perhaps through the night, even if it seems like death." 
               The directions were obeyed to the letter; Bertha, and Grandmother Haller, and the little mother, praying, oh! how earnestly, for the life of the broken lily; for how could they part with Magda? 
               The hours passed silently by; Magda slept so profoundly that the mother frequently laid her hand upon the heart to feel its pulsations-they were slow, but still there was warmth and vitality. 
               On through the whole day, and through the silent night, Fraulein and the good mother watched by the sufferer; a gentle perspiration appeared around the mouth, and gradually over the body, but all night she slept. 
               Towards the dawn of day there was a gentle motion of the hands, a low, soft sigh, and a turning of her form in bed; her eyes unclosed, showing the first marks of intelligence for weeks. 
               "Mutter, mein mutter," whispered the faint voice. 
               In the next minute, mother and child were clasped in each other's arms. 
               "Where have I been so long, mutter?" 
               "Here, mein liebling, on this sick bed, with good Fraulein by your side." 
               Raising her hand to her head, she continued: 
               "Leopold! where is he, mein mutter? I waited so long. Has he come?" 
               "Be quiet now, mein liebling. I will tell you by-and-bye; but now you must take some nourishment." 
               Very little at a time, all day, Fraulein gave her beef-tea, a little wine, and the prescription left by the physician. 
                
               But recollection was returning now, and Magda's anxiety to know the truth became more and more intense, and when the doctor came he said that the truth was better than such feverish anxiety. 
               "Don't you remember anything, Magda?" was her mother's question. 
               "Yes-the wedding-night, but not the church, nor anything of Leopold, only that we were waiting so long; then fell the dark curtain." 
               "He came at last, Magda, up the orchard, borne slowly by men, in his military dress." 
               "O, yes! I see it all! I remember now. He was dead-dead-my beloved-and I shall never see him more!" 
               With this burst of grief, the broken lily threw herself into her mother's arms, and wept long and silently, but soothing, healing tears. 
               Very slowly Magda regained her strength; the doctor prescribing music and out-door recreations. Every day the young people took turns in singing their softest, sweetest airs; but Bertha's hymns, with Ernest's guitar, pleased her most. 
               Very pale and attenuated is the broken lily; her chief employment, looking at Leopold's picture, which she wore around her neck. 
               After a few weeks more, Magda is down-stairs, clad in a widow's dress, her proud step all gone, her sad face touching every heart. 
               "I wish that we could see Magda's military step once more," said Fritz. 
                
               "Our lily is broken," answered the mother, "and we shall never see that again; but there is a work of healing going on in her poor bruised heart, and we can trust the gracious hand." 
               After the lapse of a few more weeks, the household goods of the pretty home were all sold, and the money put out for Magda; she had never stepped over the threshold after her recovery. 
               We find her at length taking her former place in the family, but very quietly Magda moved about; faithful and kind, but seldom speaking, always thinking of the past and future. 
               Fritz had entirely changed in his deportment toward his sister, for he often said to Gretchen now: 
               "We can never tease the broken lily again, can we?" 
               "No, bruder. It makes me feel so badly when I see her moving about so slowly, for her heart is full of grief." 
               Doctor Eichenbrodt had been a faithful friend in their hours of trial, but had not yet seen Magda. 
               We find the good minister on one Sunday evening, seated by her side; and taking her hand, he said so kindly: 
               "It was a Father that cast the shadow across your path, mein dochter: can you feel it, Magda?" 
               Large tears stood in the dark eyes as she answered: 
               "That is all my comfort: when the waves of trouble roll over me, that is such a rest. I am learning to kiss the hand that smote me." 
               "Deep sorrows bring us near to Him, Magda." 
               "I have so much to comfort me, doctor. It was just when he paid his last visit, that we had such a happy hour together; he told me all about his mother and his good elder sister, and Leopold meant that we should walk together to the heavenly kingdom; I think that he trusted in, and loved our Saviour, doctor." 
               "Then you may have the hope of meeting again, mein dochter." 
               "That is not all, my good kind friend; I was a proud, self-willed creature once, but I am learning lessons of deep humility every day." 
               "Then the great end of chastisement is being realized, mein dochter; and you will learn in time to know what that means which speaks of rejoicing in tribulation." 
               "I know a little, now." 
               "Let us bless God for that little." 
               And bowed before the Lord, the two knelt together and thanked him for the precious hope, and for the holy joy of the communion of the saints. 
               Thoughts of the world to come visited more hearts than one in the house of sorrow, for we find Ernest and Bertha talking together on one Sunday evening about the immortality of the soul, the youth with his skeptical questions 
                
               "How do you know that there is any individual soul after we die, Bertha?" 
               "Why, what are your ideas, Ernest?" 
               "I believe that the soul resolves itself into the eternal essence after death; the Universe is God, and we are all absorbed in Him." 
               "How foolish, Ernest!" said his cousin. 
               Magda was sitting by listening, and to their astonishment, she spoke: 
               "Bertha is right, Ernest; in our hours of distress and sorrow, we want something to lean upon and love-how absurd to talk of loving the Universe, leaning on the Universe-we want a person on whom to lean in our hours of sorrow, and such a being we find in the Bible." 
               "You are learning it, mein liebling," said grandmother Haller, a quiet listener to the talk of the young people. 
               "What would I do without a loving Father now, grossmutter?" 
               "Yes, and a tender, pitying Saviour, Magda." 
               "It won't do to tell human sufferers about the universe when we want a friend." 
               Bertha pressed a warm kiss upon the speaker's hand, as she replied: 
               "I am so glad, Magda; but I do wish that Ernest would not talk so foolishly." 
               "He will learn better, dear boy," said the broken lily. 
               Magda had never passed the door of her youthful ful dream of domestic happiness since Leopold's death, but one day, Bertha and she were out walking, and their way lay past the house. Bertha perceived a slight shudder pass over Magda's frame as they came in sight of the house, and glancing hastily at the closed windows, she said: 
               "It was such a pleasant dream, Bertha, for Leopold was good and kind to me, just like our father is at home; but God willed otherwise, and I am learning submission, but through floods of tears." 
               "You can trust our heavenly Father," was Bertha's reply; "He knows all things, and just what is best." 
               Bertha felt how much sweeter was the broken lily than proud, self-willed Magdalena. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               MUTTER'S GEBERTSTAG. 
               A SHADOW has fallen upon the House on the Heights, the sudden blight upon Magda's young life affecting the whole family. It is true that the young girl has glided into her usual habits of industry, and the whole of the household under the guidance of the good frau are moving smoothly, but not blithely, as formerly. 
               There is such a sweet, sad smile of patient resignation upon Magda's face, that one can scarcely look upon her without a sigh. 
               Thekla is quiet and reserved, at times even gloomy; little Meta clings closely to dear old gross-mutter; Bertha more earnestly than ever to her Bible; the boys are making excellent progress at the university; Fritz and Gretchen, somewhat sobered in the house, although when out on their sleds, full of the exuberance of youthful spirits. 
               Magda and Bertha often sit together in quiet places, where they can talk of the hopes and joys in store for those who love God, and there is such a child-like spirit about Magda, that Bertha hopes that she is entering the kingdom. 
                
               The Professor is meditating a new oratorio; he has thought over many fine subjects, but nowhere can he find such majestic inspiration as in the Scriptures, and, though his spirit has wandered far away from communion with his God, the spirit of poetry is full and rich within him, and day by day he is absorbed in the composition. 
               Bertha wonders what it all means, for she is often drawn to the door of the parlor, where the composer is alone for hours; she listens to the strange voices coming from the instrument under the master's magic touch. Frequently he sits for hours studying in profound thought, and then trying a few bars, until satisfied, he commits it to paper. 
               But what can it all mean? so different from any thing that she has ever heard, such a strange, bewildering opening, succeeded by low, soft music, and then such bursts of triumph. 
               One day, she ventured to ask what he was composing. Smiling he replied: 
               "You have a fine ear, Bertha, now I will tell you thus much; I call my new piece, 'The Chimes of the Universe,' and I want you to listen closely, and see if you can trace the history of creation in the music." 
               Then running his fingers over the instrument, there was a confusion of sounds, but a practiced ear could recognize the faint melody struggling through the wild, bewildering music. 
                
               "Play that again, uncle Heinrich," said the young girl. 
               Listening attentively, she said, "Is not that the chaos that must have been before creation?" 
               The professor looked delighted. 
               "You are right, mein liebling. Do you hear anything else beside confusion?" 
               "The faintest struggle of something-so far off; but there is melody. Is not that the first struggle toward the light?" 
               "You are right again; now listen. What is this?" 
               Bertha was charmed as she listened to a burst of rapturous music. 
               "The song of angels celebrating the first work of creation, when God said 'that it was good.'" 
               "A fine interpretation, mein liebling." 
               From this day forward, Bertha watched the progress of the grand oratorio with the deepest interest, saying to the little mother: 
               "Uncle Heinrich will be famous when this is brought out-Beethoven and Mozart never composed anything more beautiful and grand." 
               It may seem strange that a girl, not fifteen yet, should possess such powers of interpretation; but it must be remembered that her natural talents were of a high order, and had been carefully cultivated by the Professor, so that Bertha was really the best musical interpreter in the family. 
               The good frau's birth-day is near, and the children have not forgotten it. 
                
               It is the early spring-time, when all nature is putting on her robes of beauty; the time of apple blossoms, when the young folks can enjoy the season so typical of their own fresh youth. 
               The parents smile at the indications the night before, Fritz and Gretchen's curly heads in close confab, for there is much whispering among the children, and a birth-day is never forgotten at the Professor's. 
               By early dawn the good frau hears the patter of busy feet through the passages, and up and down the stairs-peeping out into the entry, she inquires with an amused face: 
               "What is the matter, mein kinder?" 
               They laugh and run off, calling out: 
               "You need not come down yet; it is only five o'clock." 
               Hanging back a little longer than usual, we find her at length entering the parlor, a blooming matron of forty-two, in a becoming dress, for the Professor had remembered the day, and led her forward to the group. 
               The room was brilliantly lit up, the children with old Barbara at the head, standing in a semi-circle, the happiest looking set that one could rest the eyes upon. Over the large mirror hung wreaths of arbor-vit and sweet flowers, scraps of colored paper in the shape of angels mixed freely among them, and not a few glittering spangles sparkling in the wreaths. 
                
               A large cake powdered with sugar stood in the middle of a table under the glass. Around it were collars and cuffs worked by Bertha and Thekla, a purse netted by Magda, a needle-book by Gretchen, and a silver thimble by little Meta-all for the little mother. So much for the girls. Then there are five or six sheets of beautiful note-paper, on which are written gems from German poets, richly decorated with delicate vignettes by Conrad, and one of Ernest's own sweet poems addressed to Mutter. Fritz too had bought a new work-basket, and old Barbara had made a pin-cushion with the good frau's initials. Over the glass "Mutter's Gebert stag" shone out in gilt letters. The best of all hung over the piano, a lovely picture of the whole family, the Professor's own gift. 
               There was the usual kissing all round; then came the Professor's fine music, all joining in singing Ernest's sweet song. After this bright domestic scene in the parlor, the party adjourned to the breakfast-table with dancing steps, save Magda, and Fritz said: "I wish that we could see the military step once more." 
               Magda laid her hand lovingly upon the boy's head, and with her own sad smile, said: 
               "The pride within is bowing, Fritz, and sister's step will never be haughty again." 
               Barbara had spread her very best upon the table-just what the good frau liked best, and before the meal was over, into the sunshine of the pleasant room tripped Cousin Kathie, a basket upon her arm and the light of love in her sparkling black eyes, followed by her faithful dog, for where the good frau was, there was Jip, a Skye-terrier, about one of the most intelligent of her companions. 
               "May you live forever, Cousin Mina," said the lively lady. "I remembered the day; I never forget such things, not I-and here is a pair of fine chickens, real Shanghai, work for Fritz and Gretchen, chen! feed them well, mein kinder, and you'll have a fine brood next year." 
               "Sit up, Cousin Kathie," said the Professor; "we have some fine pancakes, to-day, and Barbara's best coffee and fried apples; for I guess the walk has made you ready for another breakfast." 
               "You must stay with us to-day," said Bertha, hurrying off the lady's hat, and placing a chair for her at the table. 
               "Yes, this is a holiday," added the mother, "and we are all going to the castle garden this afternoon." 
               Fraulein smiled at the hearty welcome, kissed the good frau on both cheeks, and taking her seat, enjoyed the good things spread before her. 
               After dinner, shutting up the house the whole party started for the garden, the children running up hill with their baskets, and the elders following in their train; not too fast, however, for the old people were with them, and the steps of the aged pair were gradually becoming more unsteady as they drew nearer to the banks of the deep river, which they might cross, any day, for their heavenward journey. 
               The children bustled about like so many singing-birds, depositing their baskets in the summer-house, and then starting off, sought their pleasure among the flowers and spring birds. 
               Fritz and Gretchen enjoyed the flying-horses most; Bertha reveling in the abandonment of a young, happy heart amid the charms of nature; for it was not Sunday, the pleasure unmingled with the fear of trangression. 
               Magda took out her knitting, and joined the elders in the summer-house; the Professor with his newspaper and pipe, the old gentleman with his stories of the past, the boys with their musical instruments, and little Meta out upon the grass, weaving wreaths with the sweet wild flowers; Fraulein's dog really seemed as if he felt himself called upon to entertain the little cripple. 
               "He knows, good fellow," said his mistress; "he is fond of children, and he sees that Meta is not with the merry ones, and so good old Jip will stay with her." 
               Meta seemed perfectly happy, and rewarded the kind animal by nice little bits that she carried in her pocket, patting his shaggy head, and receiving many a mute caress in return. 
               Ernest has called Bertha aside to hear one of his poems, and seated at a distance under a fine tree, she is a delighted listener to one of his effusions. 
                
               It is supper time now, and Barbara has spread a nice meal of which all partake in the summer-house; and then gathering the whole group, we have one of their sweet concerts, which draws many other visitors to the musicians. 
               "Bravo! bravo!" goes up from many voices; the clapping of hands applauding the performers. 
               "When the swallows homeward fly," called out a voice from the outsiders, and ready to oblige as well as to enjoy, they sang in most exquisite style the lovely song. 
               "Many thanks," said the same voice, as the party, packing up their baskets, left the summer-house, having spent a happy afternoon at the old castle garden. 
               Ernest and Bertha, hand in hand, walked slowly along, engrossed with the sweet thoughts of his beautiful poem. The parents looked at the two, then at each other, divining their mutual thoughts, the mother remarking somewhat seriously: 
               "It would be pleasant, Heinrich, but we must not take these things out of the good Father's loving hands." 
               In a few days we find Bertha very busy coloring eggs all sorts of bright hues; Fritz and Gretchen helping her to scratch flowers upon them, ready for the Easter festival, so fast approaching. 
               "What are you going to do with so many?" inquired Fritz. 
               "There are many little ones in Heidelberg," she replied, "that cannot have any, and I am going to give two to a number that I know, and you and Gretchen shall go with me on Easter eve." 
               In due time we find the three, with their small baskets, on their benevolent work, the gayest of the gay. Magda blessed the dear children as they passed out of the orchard, singing one of their merry glees, and then turned with her quiet step to enter the house, such a comfort, now, to dear mutter. 
               Max and Christine rejoiced over four bright crimson eggs; and Jacob, the apple-woman's little boy; and Johannes, the washer-woman's child; Martin and Amelia, the gardener's children; little Philip, the fisherman's son that lived just at the foot of the hill; Jasper and Beta, the boatman's children, and five or six more that lived in the narrowest streets of Heidelberg, whose thin, pale faces Bertha had often seen and pitied in her walks. 
               Fritz and Gretchen danced all the way home, and Bertha felt more quietly the warm glow of love around her young heart, as she remembered the bright eyes and heartfelt blessings of the children of poverty. 
               The children had a long story to tell to mutter about the visitation, and Ernest said, as he listened: 
               "This must really be the spirit of the Christ-child that we hear so much about." 
               "I am glad to hear you say so," Bertha replied. 
               "It is a pretty fancy, but just like many others among us Germans." 
                
               "I am sorry, Ernest, that you cannot see how much better that is than any of the old legends of our country." 
               "Pretty poetry, Bertha, that is all." 
               The Easter bells rang out their joyous music, and the family on the Heights obeyed their inspiring call, save the Professor, Conrad, and Ernest; the three so well beloved, and embraced in the prayer of faith that went up daily from enough Christian hearts to claim the promise. The girls with their pretty bouquets of lovely flowers, and Fritz with a green sprig in the button-hole of his coat, joined the worshipers in the old church, Bertha well pleased to see all the little ones who had received the Easter eggs in decent attire, with their flowers and sprigs of green among the crowd, singing with sweet childish voices the Easter hymn; the children of the Lord's supper sharing in the resurrection joy, and good Doctor Eichenbrodt bestowing a benediction full of love upon the people of his charge; for above the damps and vapors of the earth, he had risen into the blessed region of the resurrection rapture. Would that we could all tarry there! 
               The little ones tripped along to their humble homes talking about their beautiful Easter eggs, happy in their childish simplicity, Bertha more blessed still, for the full libation is in the heart of the bestower, the little rills in the reception of the simple gifts of love. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               ON THE ALPS. 
               IT has been a year of close application, the Professor having made good progress in his new oratorio, and the elder boys at the university; Fritz, however, by no means broken down by hard study; but he is about to leave Herr Sauermoni's school in the autumn, and enter the university. Highly pleased, he is to accompany the family party in their pedestrian tour through the Alps. 
               In their loose summer blouses, knapsacks on their backs, their hair long and flowing, with their guitars thrown over their shoulders, they are ready for departure. This tour has been promised all the year, and Fritz thinks that he too must go in student's attire. 
               The last to make his appearance, there was a loud burst of laughter at the sight of the boy with his long hair, (for it had been growing for some months,) in his long blouse and knapsack too. 
               "Just see our Fritz!" said Gretchen. "Don't he look queer?" 
               The boy capered around in merry style, and then seizing Conrad's guitar, he swung it over his shoulder, saying: 
               "Give it to me, boy. You'll have enough to carry with your artist's stand and the other traps." 
               With an air of supreme importance, thus rigged out, Fritz straightened up his neck, threw his head back, and placing his hands upon his hips, strutted up and down the orchard in grand style, whistling a merry tune 
                      
                        I'm a German student now, 
                        Get out of my way, and make your bow, 
                     
                   at the same time, suiting the action to the words, he dashed out his feet right and left, laying poor Gretchen down upon the grass, not at all hurt however, only warned to keep out of the way of the student in embryo. 
               The farewells are all spoken, the last kisses are given, and the four started for their summer tour. 
               After a tramp of many days in their own fatherland, sometimes over mountains, and then across lovely rivers, we find them at last among the romantic glories of Switzerland. 
               We will ascend one of the mountain heights with the party, where the vegetation is mossy, and trees of the deepest green. 
               Ascending gradually, Ernest finds abundant occupation in gathering the curious plants that meet him everywhere: wild barberry trees with their crimson berries, quantities of delicate wild flowers, and the most singular little plants hidden under the brush-wood. 
               Fritz is making a fine collection of bugs and beetles, and other curiosities of the insect tribe, and Conrad equally busy in making his geological researches. 
               Here and there rests a peasant's home on the mountain slopes, with overhanging roof, the scenery desolate enough without these human habitations. 
               The ground on such mountains is highly cultivated, and yet no road but a narrow footway led up the mountain. 
               Farther up, cattle are grazing on green spots of turf, on the top of very bare crags, used for a short time in summer. As it grows colder, cattle are driven down lower, and finally brought home in winter, crowned with garlands of wild flowers, and sheltered in one end of the chalets. 
               After a hard day's tramp, and the collection of many curiosities, our travelers feel like seeking a human habitation, and are guided by the welcome sound of bells, tinkling like merry castanets. 
               "That cannot be cows," said Conrad. 
               "No," replied the Professor, "it must be mountain goats." 
               At that moment the herd appeared in sight, in the charge of a guide, who courteously greeted the weary travelers. 
               "Can you direct us to a chalet?" inquired the Professor. 
                
               "If you can be content with my poor home, you will have a warm welcome from the good wife," was the answer. 
               Following the guide, they soon found themselves at the door of one of the chalets, the good wife looking out for her husband. 
               "Some travelers, Marie," said the man. 
               "Sit down," said the kind voice, "we'll give you the best that we have." 
               Right glad were the tired party to find themselves upon the little settle before the mountain home. 
               Under Marie's nimble fingers supper was soon ready; venison and brown bread, mountain cheese, and a great mixture of eatables were soon spread out under the trees, and the mountain air had so sharpened the appetite of our travelers, that they did ample justice to the meal. 
               At last the cool night air drove them into the chalet, where a bright fire burned on the high open hearth, a long table in the middle of the room, with wooden benches all around. Several dogs lay before the fire, three children sat bashfully staring at the strangers, and the guide perceiving the guitars, asked the favor of some music, which was readily granted. 
               It was not often that the mountaineers heard such music as filled their humble kitchen; and when they sang the Swiss mountain songs, giving the hunters' horns so truly and beautifully, the hearers were enraptured. 
                
               The travelers found themselves in the very sleeping room in the chalet, where they slumbered soundly until sunrise, when, hearing the family astir, they hastened out to see the glorious sight. 
               After breakfast, led by the guide, they ascended one of the highest mountains near, where they had one of the finest views in the neighborhood; passing over thickly wooded forests, coming every now and then upon some mountain chalet in the opening, where they stopped to rest in their weary tramp. At last they found themselves on the very summit of an alp, forming a crescent of mountains in every possible form; gigantic rocky peaks on one side, the tops covered with snow; on the other richly wooded mountains and green alps, with mountains, valleys, forests, and rivers, lakes, and waterfalls, towns, villages, and church spires, all spread before them in one magnificent picture. 
               It was sunset when they reached the top, the setting rays lighting up the snowy mountains with a rosy tinge, the shadows deepening toward the valley slopes. 
               And now come softly stealing the evening bells, answering each other from village to village, calling to prayer from every church-spire far and near, sending their tranquil chimes over the plains, seeming to pause awhile on reaching the mountains, as though to collect the prayers, bearing them away to heaven in a thousand echoes. The party felt the poetry-will they hereafter answer to the call? 
                
               "This is a spot for sketching," said Conrad; "is there a chalet near?" 
               "You will find Gaspard Le Roux ready to entertain you," replied the guide; "he keeps a hotel about a mile distant, and you will have a good house there." 
               When they reached the little inn, they found that it was the time of some festival, and assembled in the chief room was a company of wild looking people, male and female, in peasant's dress, prepared for a national dance, called the Landler. The men, in mailed shoes, turning the women round, then separating, the men snapping their fingers, clapping both knees together with their hands, springing up in the air, accompanied by a shrill cry, something between shouting and singing. While the men performed these wild movements, the women waltzed demurely before them, and when joining again, it was with stamping of the feet, renewing the rotary motions, and then moving off again. The women wore short skirts and silver laced boddices; the men short full trowsers, and high crowned hats. Fritz watched the dancers, and at last, leading out one of the young girls, joined the wild dance, the mountaineers highly amused, clapping their hands at his performance. 
               Next day we find Conrad sketching one of these magnificent pictures, and staying at the inn several days, he was able to make some fine studies. 
               Bathing in mountain streams, climbing moun tain heights, living on simple food, and drinking in mountain air, we find the travelers increasing in weight, strength, and animal spirits; Fritz wild as a mountain goat, joining in a chamois hunt, leaping over precipices, chasing the mountain girls; very popular at the inn. Indeed we may say that of the whole party, for their music was so charming, that the people far and near gathered in the evenings at the inn, enjoying the concert of the Germans. 
               Boats and mules were always at their disposal when a long sail on the lake was proposed, or a steep ascent up the mountains, and Fritz could gather a company of listeners around him at any time, eager to hear the old legends of the Rhine. 
               In their turn, they made his black eyes open wide at the wonderful stories they had to tell about mountain hunters, and mountain spirits, too. 
               Inspired by the new associations the Professor has composed some beautiful mountain melodies; Ernest has furnished the words, and Conrad has painted some lovely sketches, the whole party being wonderful in the eyes of the peasantry. 
               Finding that they were within walking distance of one of the churches, the Professor thought how it would please the little mother to hear that they had gone to church while absent from home, and we find the four, therefore, in company with some of the mountaineers, obeying the bell that rang out its sweet chimes on Sunday morning. 
                
               A pleasant walk brought them to the village church, where sweet music in which all voices joined, a practical sermon from the good cure, and the sight of so many earnest worshipers were really interesting to the travelers, and coming out, Conrad said to his brother: 
               "I wish that they had not disturbed us in our early dreams up at the university, it was so pleasant to think of a world beyond this land of toil and care." 
               "I wish so too," replied Ernest, "for now only the poetry remains; but I should not like to see Bertha without her sweet and holy piety." 
               "And Magda is so much more agreeable now," answered Conrad, "so much more pleasant than Thekla, although she is so very pretty." 
                
               The summer sped too swiftly, and we find our travelers bidding a reluctant farewell to the glorious mountains, tarrying on their way home long enough, for Conrad to sketch some of the finest ruins of the old castles. 
               "They really seem tame after the mountains," said Conrad, throwing down his pencil, "I wish that I had sketched on our way out, for really there is but little inspiration in them." 
               But they are all at home, and to say that is to picture a little world of human happiness. 
               "Ach, Heinrich! mein leiber, you must never stay away so long," said the little mother, as she hung around her husband's neck, and again and again kissed the dear boys. 
               "Mein kinder! I am so happy, so happy." 
               The grandparents blessed them all out of the quiet depths of their loving hearts-Bertha was radiant, Thekla thoroughly pleased, Magda serenely happy, Gretchen overflowing with delight, pulling Fritz round, and calling him all sorts of pet names, and he in turn telling her, that he had seen some pretty wild mountain girls, but none so sweet as black-eyed Gretchen. Little Meta patted the heads of each, her sweet eyes expressing more than her pale lips could utter. Out on the balcony the Professor and the good frau, arm in arm, are walking together, the children out in the orchard enjoying the family reunion. 
               "What would you say, Mina, if I should tell you that we went to church every Sunday when we were near enough?" 
               "Ach, mein lieber! is that so?" the wife replied, clasping her husband's hand and kissing it fondly. "You make me so happy, Heinrich! 
               Then he told her how the good pastor preached, and how simple hearted the pious people of the mountains seemed, and how heart-felt the solemn music sounded in the humble village church. They talked together until summoned to supper, and ere she closed her eyes in sleep the little mother lifted her clasped hands to heaven, blessing God for this much, hoping that her beloved husband would yet enter the kingdom. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE GRAND ORATORIO. 
               IN a few days the family fell into their usual habits of industry, the Professor glad to be once more at his favorite pursuit. 
               "Now for earnest work, boys," said the father, as Fritz joined his brothers on their way to the university, the Professor much amused at the manly step which he assumed. 
               But notwithstanding his newly fledged dignity, we find Fritz teaching Gretchen the wild dance of the Landlers, calling in his own boy acquaintances, and some of the little girls of the neighborhood to bear their parts. 
               Ernest knows the music, and the mountaineers would have been surprised to see with what accuracy Fritz produced the wild dance; and then the stories of the mountaineers were never stale, and Fritz would hold his youthful audience enchained for hours, listening to his old legends. 
               The oratorio is nearly completed, and the young people are learning the choruses, that the composer may judge of their effect. 
               At the evening appointed, Fraulein alone is invited, that she may hear the grand oratorio, "The Chimes of the Universe." 
               It is opened with a confusion of sounds, accompanied with low, soft melodies, representing chaos, followed by the sweetest strains breathing forth the struggling of light; then a sudden burst of music, with the rapturous songs of angels when God said, "Let there be light." 
               The Professor was charmed himself when he heard the grand chorus produced by his children. Then came the work of creation; the crowning work, the creation of man, then of woman, when the music was slow and majestic, followed by the marriage of the two, the music gliding into sweet strains, discoursing of the bliss of pure and holy love. 
               Then in solemn measure, like the rolling of the organ, came the Sabbath peace. Now burst forth a grand and glorious chorus of angels, when, the work of creation completed, the "sons of God shout together." 
               There is a pause of a few minutes in the performance, when Bertha, enraptured, exclaims: 
               "I know it all, dear uncle; chaos, the burst of light, the work of creation, ending with that of Adam and Eve, the first marriage, and the holy Sabbath." 
               "You are right, mein liebling, and you all gave the choruses splendidly, mein kinder." 
               Now came notes of discord, harsh and grating, then the coming of Satan, his cunning fascinations breathing bewildering music, the fall and expulsion from Eden, represented by a crash of instruments making unusual discord. 
               Here a miserere is introduced, sung by Ernest and Bertha, whose deep solemn wails are echoed by distant lamentations, angels supposed to sympathize in the ruin of the fall. 
               Then the moans of stringed instruments, accompanied by the trombones and violoncello, breathed the language of deep despair when the first death occurred. 
               Now in strains of joyful melody comes the promise of a Saviour, first in the garden of Eden, then by early sacrifices, by types, and ceremonies, and by actual promise; this followed by a chorus of angels. 
               Then come wars and tumults in loud strains of martial music, the tramping of horses, sounding of trumpets, rushing to arms, dying groans and funeral marches, all this historic music, representing the defection of the Jews, and the judgments that followed. 
               Now all hearts are solemnized by deep, devotional cathedral music, giving the voice of the prophets, especially Isaiah, full of rich promises of redemption, followed by a grand chorus of angels. 
               This closes the first part of the oratorio, when the wondering listeners had no words to express their rapture, Bertha correctly interpreting the whole 
                
               Now come the children's voices, announcing the visit of the angels to the shepherds on the plains of Judea, followed by a hallelujah of angels, loud and strong. 
               Then the music representing the temptations of our Lord, and his triumph over the devil, followed by another chorus of angels. 
               Now the ministry of Jesus, given by low sweet notes of compassionate love, pouring itself forth in works of mercy. 
               The hours preceding the crucifixion and the Lord's supper in strains of tender, solemn music, accompanied by the chants of children, full of sorrow at the going out of the blessed Redeemer to suffer and to die. 
               Then came the agony of Gethsemane, a deep and solemn miserere; the suffering on the cross, low, wailing music breathing agony. 
               And now there is another short pause. 
               Then comes the resurrection song of angels, followed by a burst of jubilant music by children's voices. The glory of the ascension given in a grand, magnificat followed by a chorus of angels welcoming the Redeemer home to heaven. 
               A pause again. 
               Then came the woes of mankind-persecutions of Christians given by sad music, full of groans and tears. 
               Wars followed now, in strains of confused, terrific music-the last great battle, rushing to arms, the charges of trumpets, the overthrow of Christ's enemies, ending with the coming of the Lord, given in a grand hallelujah chorus of angels. 
               The first resurrection, the change of the living and the raising of the dead, by soft, mysterious, distant music, representing the silent secrecy of those great events. 
               Then the second advent, the personal coming of Christ, descent from heaven of the New Jerusalem, and the peaceful reign of the Redeemer, all grandly given by a hallelujah chorus. 
               Silence followed the grand performance, and then grandmother Haller spoke: 
               "You have chosen a grand subject, Heinrich; what directed you to the Bible?" 
               "No other field opened such an inspiring theme; it is so full of poetry." 
               Strange to say that, aided by Ernest, he had produced the poetry also. 
               "That was so beautiful about the angels, uncle," said Bertha. 
               "Do you mean the chorus, mein liebling?" 
               "Yes, it was so sweet to feel that they know so much about us, and rejoice with us in the work of our dear Lord." 
               Remembering the indifference of the Professor and the skepticism of Ernest, that oratorio was a strange composition, which might hereafter work a marvelous change in the great composer. 
               "How shall I have it produced?" was now his anxious inquiry;" "for I am well assured that none can better express it than my own children: now, how shall we manage? I must have Ernest and Bertha, and cannot do without the others." 
               "Let us learn it perfectly," said Ernest," you go before us and train your children's voices, and we can be spared a few days when all is ready; we will make up our loss at the university by extra study before and after." 
               "That is a bright thought," replied the Professor. 
               "We must all go," added Bertha, "and I am sure that it will be a grand success, such an oratorio has never been since the days of Handel and Mozart." 
               The family were now completely engrossed by the one great subject, and every evening we find them gathered in the parlor for the rehearsal. 
               Leaving behind a copy for practice, the Professor has left for Berlin, to train performers both vocal and instrumental. 
               In a few weeks, the young people followed, accompanied by Fraulein, for she said that she "must hear that great composition." 
               Entertained at Aunt Hildegarde's, the Professor, Ernest and Bertha are the centre of a polished circle, the remainder having rooms at a hotel, for they could not separate from Cousin Kathie. 
               Invited, however, by Madame Von Ingolstadt, we find her quite at home in this new circle, amusing ing every one by her lively sallies, and telling, as she had done scores of times before, the old story of the "Grand Duke's upset at her door." 
               "It has been many years ago," said the good lady; "I wonder if they would know me again; I wear the same kind of dress, for I have never changed it since Rupert's death." 
               The great evening has arrived at last, and a crowded house are on tip-toe for the new oratorio. 
               But we will tell the story in Bertha's own glowing words. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              DEAREST AUNT MINA:-
                            
                           How shall I begin? My pen will not run fast enough to tell you of the brilliant success of "The Chimes of the Universe." You know what it was at home, with just our own voices and instruments; but you can form no idea of what it was with the full orchestra. Uncle Heinrich seemed inspired, and at the close of the different parts was applauded in the heartiest manner. When he came to the winding up with the grand hallelujah chorus, the people were beside themselves-all on their feet, the men waving their hats and the ladies their handkerchiefs; while the plaudits at the close were deafening, the royal family joining in the enthusiasm. Bouquets were thrown in great profusion, and I felt as if I must shout too, I was so full of joy. Next day the king sent a gold medal to dear uncle, calling him the great composer of the day. I said so, Aunt Mina, did I not? 
                           It is to be produced again for three successive nights, and you will please to ask a further leave of absence for the boys. 
                           You would have laughed at the good Fraulein last night, for in sight of the king's box, she kept bowing to the royal family, much to the amusement of Aunt Hildegarde, the surprise of the queen and the almost entire loss of poor Fritz's self-control; for whenever he caught a glimpse of the queer little figure, he was almost convulsed with laughter. 
                           Gerold von Meyer is here every day, annoying me, and provoking Cousin Ernest; Aunt Hildegarde greatly elated by this distinction. 
                           Her house is quite the fashion now, for the king has sent for Uncle Heinrich, and with Aunt Hildegarde's family will be entertained at the palace to-morrow. 
                           I suppose it is quite a mark of favor, but our dear uncle is so modest that I think he would rather stay at home. Aunt Hildegarde still talks about my coming to Berlin, as if it were a settled matter-did my father make any such provision in his will? If so, I shall be so unhappy to leave my dear home at Heidelberg. I have been thinking so much about this grand oratorio-was it not strange than uncle should have chosen his theme from the Bible? But I suppose that it is just like the great painters, for many of them have done the same without being Christians. 
                           But this grand composition is so inspiring, that his own work may lead him to our dear Father in heaven. Who knows, Aunt Mina? Every day he must be thinking about these things, and what is only a beautiful composition now, may be a sweet sermon to him, a blessed benediction to lead him into the kingdom, which I know you pray for every day. 
                           Remember me to dear grossvater and mutter, and to darling Meta and good old Barbara. You do not know how I love you all, praying that we may all come into the heavenly kingdom here, and into the everlasting one in the world to come. So writes your own loving 
                           
                              PANSY.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               All at home again, Bertha laden with presents, but so glad to throw her arms around Aunt Mina's neck and whisper: "They cannot take me away, can they, dear aunt?" 
               But soon came Aunt Mina's trial, for she had received a letter from America, saying that Aunt Margarethe would be at Heidelberg early in the autumn, to fulfill the Baron's directions concerning his daughter. 
               "Did you not tell Uncle Heinrich that my aunt was coming?" anxiously inquired Bertha. 
               "Not Aunt Hildegarde, mein liebling," was the reply; "but I must tell you now your father's plans. He left directions in his will that when you were fifteen years old you should go to school for three years among the Moravians at Bethlehem, where your Aunt Margarethe, your father's sister, is one of the teachers; at the end of three years, to return to Germany, and spend one year with Aunt Hildegarde, at Berlin; at the end of that time to make your choice between Berlin and Heidelberg." 
               "Is that all, Aunt Mina? I thought it was so much worse. My choice is made already. It is a great trial though to leave you so long; but the three years will fly away, and then we will be together again." 
                
               The good frau pressed the lovely girl to her bosom, saying fondly: 
               "You are dear to me, Pansy; as my own children; however, this must be done; but remember, while your father would have wished, perhaps, that you should live in the style which your birth and fortune warrant, it is not a positive command, only an expressed wish." 
               This information had cast a gloom over Bertha's usually happy spirits, and we find her often alone, thinking sadly of the future. Preparations for her departure proceeded rapidly, and at length Aunt Margarethe is here, a pleasant lady, whose kind heart at once enfolded the sweet girl. 
               She gives Bertha a glowing account of the school and the place, and we find her gradually accustomed to the thought of separation, always saying with brimming eyes, however: 
               "Only three years, and then I'll be here again." Blessed child-heart! so like Pandora's box, where underneath all its cares and fears, reposes so serenely the angel of hope. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               AUNT MARGARETHE. 
               BERTHA is full of questions about her new home, and we often find her in confidential chat with her newly-found relative. They are seated thus together out on the piazza, on one pleasant autumn evening, enjoying the lovely prospect spread out before them. 
               "Have you anything like this at Bethlehem?" asked the young girl. 
               "We have much of quiet beauty in our landscapes," was the reply; "the Lehigh is a beautiful river, with its winding curves, slipping in and out among the green bushes in such a coquettish way; our hills and mountains, too, are lovely, but not like these, Bertha." 
               "I shall miss them so, Aunt Margarethe, for I love every one of them. Have you anything like our summer gardens in America?" 
               "Yes, certainly, for in the afternoon the Moravians go in parties across the river to an island where there is fine shade and plenty of tables and benches. The people frequently take their coffee there, and then return home after sunset." 
                
               "That is something like Heidelberg, aunt." 
               "Yes, they have all the German customs-so fond of music, and so very domestic. I know that you will like them, Bertha. It is so pleasant to walk through the town at sunset, for then music is heard in almost every house." 
               "But I thought that I should not be allowed to ramble so freely, aunt." 
               The lady smiled, as she replied: "There you are quite mistaken; the girls walk out daily under the care of a teacher; Brother Weiss is very good, and I know that he will allow you to go out with me any pleasant afternoon." 
               "Who is Brother Weiss?" 
               "He is at the head of the school, and every one loves him, for he is one of the best of men; he is a minister, Bertha, and you will often hear him preach in the chapel. His wife is a kind, motherly lady, and is devoted to the school." 
               "I hope that I shall have superior teachers of music, for I am so anxious to improve in that branch." 
               "There are none better, Bertha, only be industrious and obedient, and you will have a happy time." 
               "But I am so afraid of such a crowd of girls, all of them so different." 
               "That is true, Bertha, but there are always many who are agreeable companions. Be careful about your intimacies; while you are kind to all, never associate freely with those whom you find rebellious, or in any way tainted with the evil habits of schoolgirls. Do not, however, be too ready with your advice, Bertha; let your life preach." 
               "I shall miss these dear brothers and sisters so very much, aunt." 
               "That is true; but remember your business at Bethlehem is to improve your mind and character, so as to fit you for a life of goodness and usefulness; then you will be so busy that you will not have much time to think about your companions." 
               "Are there many pleasant walks around Bethlehem, aunt? I shall miss our lovely places of resort, I know; the castle grounds, and the gardens, and the sails on the romantic Neckar." 
               "There is no splendid ruin, like the old castle, Bertha; no such grand, towering mountains, and vine clad hills; but the rambles along the green banks of the Lehigh are delightful, and the walks upon the surrounding hills are very charming-the novelty will please you, Bertha, I am sure. You will be surprised, perhaps, to hear that one of the favorite places of resort for the Moravian people is the cemetery, where mothers often take their little ones on pleasant afternoons; sitting there so happily with their work, for they seem to look upon death with very tranquil emotions, Bertha, and it is a sweet lesson upon the value of a Christian's hope of immortality." 
               "I think that I shall like the place, aunt, and have quite made up my mind to be contented and happy while I am there." 
               "That is a dear girl," replied the lady; "there is nothing like plenty of occupation to banish vain regrets; the time will pass very swiftly, Bertha, and at its close, I am strongly inclined to return to my dear fatherland. What do you say to that?" 
               "That will be delightful, Aunt Margarethe, for it is just where you ought to be." 
               "Do you know, Bertha, that you are growing very like your mother?" 
               "I am so glad to think so, but I want to be like her in character, too; for whenever I visit the old home on the Rhine, all the people that remember her seem so fond of her, and say that she was an angel of goodness among them." 
               "Yes, that she was; she seemed to feel that she was sent among them to promote their happiness; and she succeeded, Bertha, for there was not one that did not love the dear lady of the castle." 
               "When I am of age, aunt, I mean to spend a part of every year there, trying to follow all her plans, and if you are only with me, we will try to do so much for them. But it seems very sad that so many good people die so early, while the wicked linger out their days, tormenting everyone around them, and blessing no one." 
               "Early ripe for heaven, Bertha, the Lord takes them to Himself-they have done their blessed work in a few short years, and the wicked are spared, perhaps, for repentance. But this plan of yours is very delightful, mein liebling; it is worth thinking about, and we will cheer the years of absence by these pleasant prospects." 
               The nimble fingers of the household are all busy, for there is much to do for the young traveler's outfit. 
               "Plenty of warm clothing," said Aunt Margarethe, "for the winters there are very cold; be sure to have a thick double wrapper and a good supply of flannel and fur; the wash-rooms are in the lower apartments, and the long walk through the cold passages is very trying. I never liked that part of our arrangements; it is too severe." 
               Bertha is often at Fraulein's, for there are so many objects of interest to be left behind, and she knows that the good lady will look after them faithfully. 
               "I shall not be here to help with your Christmas, Fraulein," said Bertha, "but I will send you some money-there are so many to leave. There are the fisherman's little ones, that have lost their mother, I know that they will miss me, for I keep them in shoes, and this winter they must have warm caps and mufflers when they go to school. Their father is a sickly man, and does his best, poor fellow! but he must have help." 
               "I will see to them, Pansy; you may be sure of that." 
                
               "Then there is old Frau Leibert; sick half of the winter with rheumatism, she always looks for her weekly allowance; you will see to that, Fraulein, for I shall leave directions about it." 
               "I will do all that I can, Pansy; but it will be a dreary Christmas without you." 
               "O no, Fraulein, it is never dreary when the Christ-child comes among us, if we only have His blessed spirit; then don't forget the Easter-eggs, four for each little one whose names I leave; be sure to have them dyed handsomely; they think so much of them, poor little things." 
               "I am glad that you leave it all with me, Pansy, for it is just the work that I like so much." 
               Bertha's face suddenly became saddened as she said slowly: 
               "What do you think of our dear old saint, Fraulein? She is not what she was, I fear." 
               "She seems to me like one that is called Bertha. I have watched her step gradually becoming more feeble, and her abstracted, dreamy manner, and we all see the change creeping upon her so gradually." 
               "She is like the one that Doctor Eichenbrodt preached about last Sunday, Fraulein, 'a shock of grain fully ripe;' but what will grossvater do without her?" 
               "He will not belong behind, Pansy; they are so completely one." 
               Meta was perhaps the most sorrowful of all in view of Bertha's departure, for she was so dependent dent on her cousin for sympathy and tenderness, but above all, for employment. The sweet child is often found watching Bertha as she moves about the rooms, always asking to be placed near her where she sat, never tired of her cousin's pretty stories and sweet hymns. 
               On every fine day we find her out in the orchard in her little carriage, enjoying the pure air and pleasant view of the river, every one ready to minister to the gentle child's happiness. 
               Fritz and Gretchen are beginning to be sobered too as the time draws near for the breach in the family circle, for prankish as they are, they had warm, loving hearts, and knew what a dear companion they were losing. 
               It is the time of the vintage, but it does not come now with the general joyousness of the season, for Bertha knows that she will be far away when the next comes round, and who can count the changes of the passing years? So the song of the vintage has its minor key to Bertha's ear; beginning to learn, as we all must do sooner or later, the lessons of change and vicissitude in this our mortal state. Bertha has many friends in Heidelberg, all anxious to show her kindness, and we find her invited out frequently to join the parties of her friends over the river and elsewhere, Fraulein generally bearing her company. 
               It was quite a subject of amusement to the little lady's plans for her favorite, and caused some hearty laughing, when one day a box was sent directed to Bertha. On opening it, it was found to contain all sorts of domestic medicines, especially an infallible cure for sea-sickness, numberless pasters, too, for corns, chapped lips and hands, etc., etc.; then there was a thick woolen hood, a pair of pulse-warmers, a woolen scarf and knit slippers, lined and quilted all through. Nothing very pretty to be sure, but so much genuine, heart warm affection was seen in the offering, that Fraulein was happy as a singing bird, when Bertha threw her arms around her neck and kissed her a dozen times, not so much for the gift as for the love. Down in the bottom of the box was a small case, and there was Fraulein's most costly gift, a jet and pearl necklace worn by her when she was young; the gift of an uncle. 
               "You know, dear," she wrote, "that I never wear such things now, and it will be such a pretty ornament for the examination." 
               But what made it most valuable to Bertha was the miniature suspended to the necklace, a perfect likeness of Fraulein. 
               "Only a photograph," the note said. 
               Bertha kissed the pendant, saying: 
               "It is a perfect likeness; how glad and happy I am." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               GROSSMUTTER'S WAKING DREAM. 
               IT is Sunday evening, and the two old people are sitting where they have a fine view of the sunset. The whole landscape is illumined by a glow of beauty, and Bertha, attracted by its loveliness, is seated by grossmutter's side, both gazing in silence upon the picture spread out before them. A sweet seriousness lights up the features of the dear old lady, and Bertha fancies that she is thinking of the golden hills that lie beyond these mortal scenes. Turning a look of love upon her young companion, the aged saint said: 
               "Would'st thou know, Pansy, the sweet dream that visited me last night?" 
               "A dream, grossmutter?" inquired the listener. 
               "A waking dream, mein liebling; neither asleep nor quite awake, the vision passed before me. As I lay thinking of holy things when the house was all silent, methought that all around my window, there was a sound of heavenly music. I lay where I could see the stars of heaven, and one by one they seemed to fade away, as my senses yielded half to sleep; then I thought that the heavenly messenger senger had come for me, Pansy, and quickly and silently he bore me away from this lower world, past the stars-on, on, on, till I reached the heavenly mansions. A host of white-winged angels were there to greet us, for many other freed spirits had borne us company. O, Pansy! such a burst of heavenly music I had never dreamed of. Then the angel led me through the gates of the heavenly city until we reached the throne and saw the Lord. Pansy, He smiled upon me in my dream, and then I knew that I was safe forever. I was at home; and then it seemed as if years rolled on in that blessed land. O! how I watched the arrival of new spirits. First came your grossvater, so bright, so happy, all free from earthly stains, clad in the white and shining robes of heavenly purity. 
               We communed together of the dear ones left behind, and he told me that many of those we loved were traveling on their way to the heavenly city; our daughter Mina, and Heinrich too; and somehow the spirits seemed to have a strange knowledge of the destiny of other spirits, and he said that Ernest and Conrad would come at last to the better land, and many other things he told me that filled my heart with rapture unspeakable; but in the midst of the vision, I suddenly awoke.' 
               Little Meta sat with the dear old lady's hand clasped within her own, and pressing a kiss upon the withered surface, she whispered: 
               "Did you dream of me, grossmutter?" 
                
               The old lady laid her hand upon the child's head and replied: 
               "Yes, mein liebling; I saw your angel in my dream, and his look was so holy, his whole face so glorious." 
               "I wonder if he will come soon, grossmutter; I get so tired of waiting, and watching the other little girls playing all around me." 
               The old lady looked at the thin, pale hand that lay within her own, and said: 
               "I think that he will come soon, Meta, and then you will never be sick nor crippled any more." 
               "Did you see any little children in your dream, grossmutter?" 
               "More than I could count, Meta, led by holy angels, following the dear Lord, so beautiful, so blessed." 
               "I can wait, grossmutter; it will be just a little while. Now can't you tell us one of your sweet stories? it has been so long since we have heard one." 
               "Call the children around me, Bertha," said the story-teller; for she called them "children," still. 
               "When I was a little girl, no older than you, Meta, I had a twin brother, the dearest, sweetest little boy that ever lived. How we loved each other, I cannot tell. I remember him now, just as if he were alive last week; he had the most beautiful flaxen hair, and such a loving smile upon his dear face. He was not so strong as I, and it was my chief joy to take care of him, to shield him from all harm, to amuse him when he was not well; and little Martin learned to look up to me as if I were years older than he, instead of his twin sister. But suddenly he was taken sick, and after three days of illness was removed to another and a better world. We were so like one, that it was feared that the grief would kill me; but I had a strong frame, and gradually grew better; but I never forgot my little brother, and his early death led me to give my young heart to the Lord, who loved him well enough to give him a mansion in the skies, ere he knew anything of sin or sorrow; and the other night, in my waking dream, I saw my brother, Meta, among the blessed company of happy, glorified children-that was in my dream, mein kinder. Several years rolled on, and when I was about fifteen, I lost my beloved mother. O, what a grief was that! for I loved her so fondly and she-well! I cannot think of the love she poured upon me, even now in my old age, without tears. I saw her, too, in my waking dream. She seemed to know me, and then I felt what a blessed place heaven will be, where we shall meet all those who have died in the Lord, and be with them forever and ever. 
               "Now, mein kinder, this is my last story. I hope that you will not forget all that I have told you, when I am gone. I could not bear to think that I shall miss any of you, when the Lord comes to gather home His people." 
               Tears were upon the cheeks of all the listeners, even the manly faces, for they all knew what a dear old saint had instructed them in this sweet and holy manner. 
               Gretchen seized the old lady's hand, and said: 
               "I know that I have given you many a heartache, grossmutter; but forgive me, and I will really try to be a better girl." 
               Ernest turned away to hide the deep feeling that quivered around his mouth, and suffused his eyes with tears. 
               "Now, let us have some music," said the old lady; and entering the parlor, they sang together their favorite hymn: 
               "O, sacred head, now wounded." 
               At the close, grossmutter said, with the deepest feeling: 
               "That is all my hope, remember, mein kinder; no other name but Jesus do I plead." 
               One by one, they silently stole away to their rest, deep impressions resting upon every heart. 
               Bertha is very anxious to pay a visit to the castle ere she leaves Heidelberg, and in company with Aunt Margarethe and Fraulein, they set out upon their tour, the season of the year rendering it peculiarly saddening. 
               Aunt Margarethe had many tender recollections, and pointed out several mementoes of Bertha's sainted mother. 
               "Here she kept her little book of charities," said the lady, opening a small secretary that stood in the sitting-room; and there were the records still of her deeds of kindness-the aged and the young alike recipients of her bounty. 
               In their walks about the environs, there were many proofs of poverty and neglect-quite a small settlement of the humblest and the poorest everywhere. 
               "It was not so when she was here," said Aunt Margarethe; "she had so many plans for their improvement and comfort." 
               There were several who remembered her, and one old woman said: 
               "It was a sad day for us when the good lady died; she was only sick one week, and there was not a dry eye among all the people that went to her funeral." 
               "We must revive those good days, Aunt Margarethe," said Bertha; "but it seems such a long time to wait." 
               "But you will be all the better prepared, Bertha, when the time comes." 
               "Did you see the poor pale-faced children, aunt? How sorrowful they looked." 
               "I did, Bertha, and my heart went out in pity toward them." 
                
               "When I come here, I'll have a Kindergarten, like one I visited when I was in Berlin; such a happy set of little ones I never saw; would it not be delightful to have one here?" 
               "We'll keep that in mind, mein liebling," was the reply. 
               On their return to Heidelberg, they were surprised to find, in Bertha's room, all sorts of little keepsakes from the poor people and the children that she had so often helped and cheered in their poverty; the queerest little gifts, most of them made by their own hands. 
               "Just to remember us by," wrote little Hans, for the rest of the company. 
               And so Bertha put them all by in one box, resolving to leave some little matters for them out of her pocket-money. 
               But the most amusing demonstration of humble gratitude was in the form of a serenade, when one night after they had all retired, Hans, at the head of a procession of boys and girls, stood under Bertha's window, singing, at the top of their voices, their most inspiring songs. 
               A song of the dear fatherland touched her most, and when they sang the chorus so lustily, they were delighted by the cheers that greeted them from the upper windows. 
               Very proud were the little ones at the success of their first serenade, singing all the way down the orchard, and out of the gate. 
                
               On the following Saturday, Bertha invited all the little folks to the House on the Heights, and there were little Hansand his sister, the fisherman's children, the washerwoman's little ones, the baker's flock, little Christine and her brother, and all the children whom Bertha remembered on Easter morning-all in their best bib and tucker, and old Barbara did her very best in providing for the feast. 
               There were nice biscuit and chocolate, and sausages and fried apples, a bag of sugar-plums for each little one, and a pretty book, with Bertha's name written on the first leaf. 
               At the close, they sang one of their sweetest hymns, and then Bertha played and sang for them all her prettiest childish songs. 
               "Now, you will be good children, I hope," said the young girl; "Fraulein will write to me all about you, and the girl that knits the nicest pair of stockings shall have a warm dress, and the boy that has the best report, shall have a suit of clothes." 
               The little faces shone at this news, for each one fully believed that he or she would be the happy one, and so they took their leave of Bertha. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE GOLDEN WEDDING. 
               FIFTY years of happy wedded life have rolled by the aged pair, ripening and mellowing their characters, sanctified and ennobled by their trials, as they draw near to the land of the immortals. 
               It is true that their steps are not so elastic as in former years, but their mental faculties are unimpaired, and they have not yet reached that hapless period when life itself becomes a burden. 
               The good frau must have a golden wedding, forsooth! and the household are all astir with their preparations. 
               The old wedding-suit has been brought out, and the children have a hearty laugh at grossmutter's attempts to squeeze into the one that fitted her beautifully fifty years ago. The waist must be lengthened, it must be opened under the arms, and let out in the shoulders before such a thing can be accomplished, for grossmutter is a stout old lady now. But, however, it is all ready at last-ancient in style to be sure, but grossvater could not hear of any other than the dress which his youthful bride wore on that sunny day. The house within is covered with garlands of flowers which the children's loving hands have gathered, evergreen and the passion flower, the good frau's emblems of the dear old people, conspicuous among the wreaths. 
               The grandparents, in their wedding-suits, rode to church, music accompanying them, the guests following after, noise and shouting saluting them as they drove off. The minister married them over again, and made an address which brought tears into many eyes, for the old couple were much beloved, and there are always thoughts of the end that is near at all such celebrations. 
               Dinner was served on their return home, after which the aged pair sat hand in hand in the parlor, enjoying the sweet music of the young voices. 
               "We are going out, and they are coming in, Wilhelm," said the old lady. 
               "Yes, mein liebling, that is true, and I think that we can say, at the end of fifty years, that we have never had a serious quarrel." 
               "How could that be with one so good and kind, Wilhelm?" 
               "Or with one so patient and forbearing as my own good frau?" 
               In the evening the presents were brought out: The Professor and his wife had each presented a pair of gold spectacles, Magda and Thekla a fork washed with gold, Conrad a gilt-headed cane to grossvater, Ernest a cup washed with gold to grossmutter, Fritz and Gretchen each a gold pencil, Meta a gold thimble and a gold ring, and Bertha a gold spoon to each, with their initials engraved. 
               Fraulein Peterkin was of course among the givers, and early in September Bertha is to bid farewell to her dear home on the Heights. 
               She is often found watching the sunsets, for they never seemed so lovely as now, that the veil of distance was so soon to fall upon them. 
               On one of these occasions Ernest has joined the young girl, and seating himself beside his cousin, he pointed to the Heilegenberg, the misty twilight stealing over its green slopes. 
               "You will see nothing so lovely as that in America, I am sure, Pansy," said the youth. 
               "Nothing so beautiful to me, Ernest; I shall see the picture so often, just as it looks now, when I am far away from the dear old home." 
               "And the one that sits beside you, Pansy?" 
               "Always, Ernest, for you know that we love poetry and music so much, that we shall miss each other sadly, that I know." 
               "I shall have no one to read my scraps to, Pansy; but I'll send them now and then, shall I?" 
               "I shall be so glad, for I shall miss you more than any of the others; but three years will soon be gone, and then"-- 
               "And then," continued Ernest sadly, "you will go to Berlin, and that rich Gerold von Meyer will never let you come back to Heidelberg." 
               Bertha replied by a sweet musical laugh: "Gerold von Meyer, that empty head! keep me away from my own dear friends? no indeed!" and turning a beaming face toward Ernest, she continued: "I'll come back and live here in my own dear vaterland always; you will be a great poet by and by, and I shall admire your works above all things, and we'll go to the old church together, and enjoy the sweet music, and take our sails on the river again, and have the good old days all back once more." 
               Ernest looked on Pansy's beauty and thought how many would seek to charm away the lovely girl, just budding into sweet young womanhood. 
               He replied slowly: 
               "You think so now, Pansy; but you are going into a new world, will see new faces, and make new friends; and who knows but some one may steal our Pansy away from us; you will write to me sometimes, Pansy?" 
               "You may be sure of that." 
               "Shall I say thou and thine, Pansy, instead of you and yours?" 
               "Why, Ernest? We have always said you and yours." 
               "It sounds more poetical, Pansy, and it seems to come so naturally when I think of writing to you." 
               Bertha laughed a little musical laugh, and said: 
               "It seems a queer fancy; but if it pleases you, write thou and thine, Ernest." 
               "But to no one else, Pansy, mind that." 
               Hand in hand, they entered the house together, the two singing for the last time many of their favorite songs, each wondering when they should sing together thus again. 
               Fraulein is here too, for she had come to say farewell, and to give to Bertha a little bottle containing a certain cure for sea-sickness. 
               It was a real sorrow to part with Bertha, and the good little lady shed many tears at the thought of the three long years. 
               "But I shall pray for you, Pansy," she whispered, "and hope that when you come to choose your lot in your vaterland, you will not care for a coronet of nobility, but only one of goodness, Pansy." 
               "I trust that it may be so, Fraulein." 
               "Now, good-bye, and God bless you, Pansy," and kissing Bertha fondly, the good lady passed slowly out of the orchard. 
               Out on the balcony alone with Aunt Mina, in the moonlight, Bertha is communing for the last evening with that dear mother. 
               "You have observed, Pansy," said the lady, "that your uncle goes regularly to church with me now, and it makes me so happy-it is a strange story, but I will tell you, dear, what brought him back." 
               "Something to do with the oratorio, Aunt Mina?" 
               "Yes, Pansy, such simple ways our Father takes to bring his children home." 
                
               "I thought it would be so; now go on, dear aunt." 
               "You know how beautiful it is. Well, all the time that he was composing it, he had to read the Bible, and the writers of later days; and he said as he went along, it seemed more and more real, less and less poetical, until out of this sweet fancy came the dawn of spiritual life; and now I think that Heinrich is walking toward the light, and entering the kingdom. I don't say much, Pansy, for I must not meddle with God's own work; but I thank Him every step, and I pray, and so does he, Pansy, just like a child, mein liebling." 
               Bertha kissed her aunt's hands and said: "Oh! how happy you make me, dear Aunt Mina; I have seen that he does not go over the river on Sunday any more, and I have been so hopeful." 
               "That is true, Pansy; but after his hard week's work, he must have some recreation-he don't go with the crowd, drinking lager, and smoking, and cracking jokes, but we go into the green woods, or ramble along the banks of the Neckar, where we can see the smiles of nature, and hear the sweet melody of birds, and there we have such pleasant talk. But, Pansy, you must write often; at least once a month, or even more frequently, if you can." 
               The good frau hurried into the house now to complete the packing, for Bertha was to leave on the second day after this interview. 
               The careful, motherly hand was seen in the valise lise of comforts for the voyage, in the warm wrapper, the nice hood, and the little delicacies that she had so thoughtfully provided. 
               The farewells were rather too much for poor Bertha, and hurried through as fast as possible; Conrad, the elder brother going with them to the place of embarkation. Aunt Margarethe and Bertha are in the carriage, the latter straining her eyes to catch the last glimpse of the lovely Neckar and the glorious mountains, listening to the familiar sounds around Heidelberg, her ears more keenly alive than ever to the street cries, the church bells on some Saint's day and the striking of the old town clock, sounding now almost like a knell. 
               Seeing them safely on board of the steamer, Conrad returned home to find a depressed household, the voyagers sailing now across the wide Atlantic. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               HOME-SICKNESS. 
               
                  BETHLEHEM, Sept. 30, 18-.
                
               DEAR AUNT MINA.-This does not express half of the love that so far away from my own dear vaterland fills my heart, mein liebling, and our sweet German words speak so much more. We arrived here safely two days ago, after a pleasant passage across the ocean, save the sea-sickness that would have its way for a short time, in spite of Cousin Kathie's medicine. 
               But the sea-sickness is nothing to the home-sickness, the dreadful loneliness of a crowd of strange faces. 
               We arrived late in the afternoon; the teachers were all very kind, Aunt Margarethe almost like a mother, but the girls could not, of course, care much for a stranger, and they seemed so curious to know who had come among them. Some were very pleasant looking, but many that I would not care to see often; their whispering in corners was so very disagreeable, and I was glad when it was time to retire, for I was very weary. 
               But the sight of the long, high dormitory made me shudder; the rows of narrow beds with their pure white covers and short curtains around each, somewhat concealing the sleepers. Perfect cleanliness everywhere, but this chilly loneliness made me lie down with a heavy sigh, and with my pillow wet with tears I tried to compose myself to sleep. 
               But as soon as the teacher closed the door, up started two or three mischievous things, pitching pillows at each other in a high game of romps. I thought of Gretchen, dear frisky Gretchen, and I wished that she were here; but I do not believe that this is right, dear aunt, and so I hope that I may try to keep the rules, and be an obedient scholar, for you know that you have often told me that this is what God expects of His child. One or two of the older girls persuaded them at last to go to sleep, but their beds are close together, and they kept me long awake listening to their funny stories, until tired out at last, they became quiet, and I went to sleep to dream of the Neckar, the mountains, and my dear old home. 
                
               This morning I went into the school-room, and having been examined, was placed in my several classes, and my studies appointed. There was one very pleasant face in one of the higher classes that attracted me strongly, for we often looked at each other and she always smiled so kindly as if she wanted to say some pleasant words, for I am sure that her dark eyes did. 
                
               She is not pretty, for her features are rather large and her skin none of the fairest; but her brown eyes are so expressive, her dark hair so soft and waving, her smile so full of sweetness, and yet there is a firm look upon her face, especially around her mouth, such a straight, womanly form, such a slow, measured step; I wonder who she is. 
                
               I just write in little snatches, Aunt Mina, for I am very busy now with my studies and my music. I have great advantages here, some superior professors, and I am trying to reap a rich harvest. 
               Last Sunday we went to church; so large, so high, so clean and white. I thought of the sombre walls of the old church at Heidelberg, so solemn and yet so much more pleasant than this glare of light. 
               There were long rows of benches all bare; the pulpit, like a small box, suspended high above the people, and the desk, a plain affair, with a few chairs on either side. Opposite the pulpit was the great organ where the choir were seated. 
               The men sat on one side, and the women on the other side, of the church. We went in company with the teachers, and the children of the town came in; the boys under the care of the Moravian brothers, the girls with the sisters. Good Bishop Schweinitz preached; such a benevolent face, with a very impressive, but not a loud, voice; but his sermon was full of the love of Christ, and that is what we all need. You would have been pleased, dear aunt, there was so much of the blessed Saviour in his sermon. 
               The Moravian music is very sweet and solemn; rather monotonous I think, for all the hymns sounded like chants, but they are soothing, not inspiring. The pleasant face at school came in with the girls, for she is only a day scholar at the school; we sat near enough to each other for her to hand me her book, for which I thanked her when church was over. 
                
               Next day the pleasant face joined me at recess; she introduced herself as Frederica Schweinitz, the daughter of the good Bishop. I told her to call me Pansy, and I am to call her Rika-she is two years older than I, but we became very sociable at once, and now she always hunts me out at recess, and I think that I have found a friend. 
               On Friday, Rika informed me that Mrs. Weiss had given permission for me to go with her to Mt. Nisky, Aunt Margarethe also in company. 
                
               We had a delightful afternoon, and stayed until sunset, enjoying the scenery-beautiful of its kind, but not like our own glorious mountains. The pink tints tinging the summits of the hills were very lovely, and the whole landscape a peaceful poem, Ernest would say; the tinkling of the bells in perfect harmony with the scenery. 
                
               Rika entertained me with accounts of her family, her good mother, and her darling brother, Rudolph, five years older than herself, pursuing the study of divinity, for he is to be a minister of the Moravian Church. How she talked about him! 
               "You ought to see him, Pansy," she said; "he is so handsome, and so smart; I wouldn't offend him for the whole world, for he is so much sterner than dear father; and then he sings so beautifully, and he plays on two or three instruments. You must know our Rudolph, Pansy, for there is none like him in all Bethlehem." 
               I could not help laughing a little, but then I loved her all the better for her sisterly love. We came home through the town, and it seemed to me that there was music in every house, for it is not cool enough yet to close the windows. 
               There are serenading bands, and quite elderly men belong to them. When the boarders are here in the summer time, they are out almost every fine night, carrying their heavy instruments, their music stands, and lights up the hills, to entertain the strangers. 
                
               I do like these Moravian people-they seem so simple-hearted and pious, and, would you believe it? they leave their milk, and butter, and cream at the town spring, without a fastening, and when I asked a person, standing near, if it was never stolen, he looked so surprised, and said: 
                
               "Stolen in Bethlehem! We never hear of such things, here." 
               Dear, good, primitive people! we could not do that at Heidelberg, could we, Aunt Mina? 
               Last Sunday, Rika took me into the minister's room, which was hung with the pictures of many of the Moravian ministers. I was so struck with the faces-so different in feature and complexion, but all with the same look of heaven-born peace which we read of in Bunyan's "Pilgrim." 
               It must be the brotherhood of real Christians, the mark of the dear children of the kingdom of heaven, that will transfigure the shining ones hereafter. Will it not be a happy world, dear Aunt Mina, where every face will wear the same blessed radiance? 
               One of the old sisters came into the room to prepare the pillow for the offering of a little one for baptism. It was covered with a pure white slip, and over that was pinned a thin covering of white muslin, trimmed with lace; but it looked as if the poor little one was pinned down so tightly, that there could be no possibility of free motion. The old sister remarked rather proudly, that she had brought three hundred infants on that same pillow. 
               I found that young Moravians, of both sexes, stood as sponsors; that the water was administered from a cup lined with gold, very much in the shape of a gravy-boat, pouring the water three times, in the name of the Trinity. 
                
               On this occasion, the young sisters wore the cap, used now only in religious ceremonies; and the four joined in the ceremony of laying on of hands, as we do in confirmation. 
               Formerly, the boarding-school girls wore the same kind of a cap to church, but that custom is abolished. I am glad, Aunt Mina, for I should not like to wear this cap at all. 
                
               In one of our Saturday excursions, good old Brother Wooley went with us over the mountains. Being a naturalist, he had a great deal of interesting information to give, and gathered many curious plants, which he preserves in his tin box. 
               I take my box on all such occasions, gathering curious plants for Ernest, and Brother Wooley directs me how to keep and classify them. 
               Plain and primitive, he possesses a great fund of knowledge, and when we reached the top of the mountain he led us to the most beautiful points, from which we had fine views of a lovely country: the silver Lehigh flowing so gracefully among the many turns in its winding way, in and out, now in shadow, now in sunshine, "like our human life," our poet Ernest would say. 
               That household name brings me into the midst of the dear ones at home. I see dear Uncle Heinrich at the piano, so absorbed in his beautiful compositions; your crown imperial, Aunt Mina, give a shower of kisses to him. There, too, are the aged saints that we all love so much; I see them side by side, she with her knitting, he with his book and pipe; their names-evergreen and passion flower-come to me so often now. Tell them that Pansy loves and prays for them in this distant land. There, too, is our white lily moving about with her subdued and quiet step-may the peace that Jesus gives be hers, dear Magda! And Thekla, our mimosa, too, tell her how often I think about her; I hope that she is every day becoming more of a comfort to her dear parents. 
               What would I give to have one race around the apple orchard with Fritz and Gretchen. Is she a thistle-blossom still? dear, airy, prankish, but loving child! And Conrad, our graceful elm, does he remember his old playmate? And Ernest, our quivering aspen, I know that he is dreaming lovely visions yet, for how can he help it? I wish that the image of our dear Lord walked among them; but I have many hopes for Ernest, more hopes than fears, dear Aunt Mina. I wish that our healing balsam, the good Fraulein, was here among this quaint, primitive people. How she would like to visit the widows' and sisters' houses, and how many beautiful things she would learn to make! I suppose that she is busy as ever in her own little world. 
               I must not forget good old Barbara; how I would like some of her nice doughnuts. When my Saturday comes round, I am often with the kind old soul in the kitchen, and I would not care for a good round scolding, just to see her dear old face again. 
               But, I am running on, not knowing when to stop. When you write, tell me everything, and do not let it be long. I do so love to associate your own sweet names with the family circle. And so I conclude, begging dear Aunt Daisy to love and pray for her own most loving 
               
                  PANSY.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               TIDINGS FROM VATERLAND. 
               "A LETTER! A letter for me!" exclaimed Bertha, as the messenger came in with a large package. And sure enough, there was one from dear Aunt Mina, and away she flew to enjoy it all alone, out on the back piazza. Not seated long, she was soon disturbed by a company of laughing girls, and off she flew again, down into the school-room grounds, and under a tree felt quite safe. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              TO MY OWN DEAR PANSY:
                            
                           For now we know, mein liebling, what that sweet name expresses, as we think of it day by day in our household. Uncle Heinrich misses it in his new opera; Magda in her hours of depression, for they come very often; Fritz and Gretchen when they get into trouble; Conrad, when he is studying out his pictures; and Ernest most of all. We find him straying off by himself so often, looking for the attentive listener, and the appreciating sympathy, which he will not seek from any one else. 
                           Last Saturday we went, as usual, over the river, Fraulein and Jip accompanying us; but I cannot see when we shall grow accustomed to our Pansy's absence. We sat down in the summer-house, and every one had something to say of our dear absent one. We tried to sing; but, to tell the truth, we all broke down when we tried the song of the swallows; and Ernest, throwing down his instrument, ran off hastily to the river's bank, and we saw him no more until it was time for supper. Conrad is to graduate at the close of the summer session, and then will serve his time in the army; but he will be nothing but an artist; he has sold several of his pictures for a very good price, and we all think that there is a bright future before him. Ernest is making good progress, and Fritz has brought home excellent reports from the university. 
                           He has been in one student's scrape already, but we do hope that he will learn wisdom before long; he is so different from the other boys. 
                           Your dear uncle goes constantly to church with me now, and I hope that his example may influence the boys. Ever since I have given up the Sunday excursions, his attendance upon them has been fitful and irregular, and last Sunday he said, when the boys wanted him to go: 
                           "I think that I will stay with my good frau hereafter; we have plenty of time on week-days for such sport, and I guess that we would all be the better for staying at home." 
                           The young folks go still-Magda, however, joining our party. 
                            
                           Grossmutter does not seem very well, not so strong, and often sleepy; she goes out but seldom, just walking in the orchard on fine days, or sitting out on the front piazza that overlooks the Neckar, gazing sometimes for an hour at a time upon the distant mountains, with such a wistful look on her dear face, that I feel sometimes, Pansy, as if she were longing for the blessed rest that is near, almost hearing sounds from home. 
                           Grossvater watches her failing step and fading eye; he does not say much, but I know that he sees what we all do. He does not tell laughing stories as formerly, but a more sober spirit has settled upon him. They both ask for sacred music now, Gelert's sweet hymns being their favorites. 
                           The vintage is over; but vater did not take much interest in it, for he is altogether absorbed now in his dear frau. 
                           The summer has all gone, the autumn days have followed, scattering their dry leaves upon the ground. We hear its winds sighing their low wail up the valley, and we cannot help thinking of the time when the dear old saints that we love so much will be gone, their crowns of silver hair exchanged for crowns of glory; for as the shadows lengthen around their pathway, their hearts are daily drawn heavenward, and grossmutter's stories now are all about the Christ-child and his kindred. 
                           Sometimes when we enter the room suddenly, where they stay, we see them sitting with clasped hands; and once I heard vater say: 
                           "I hope that I shall not tarry long, mein liebling, after thou art gone." 
                           Grossmutter is knitting such a beautiful hood; and the other day I said: 
                           "Is that for Pansy, mutter?" 
                           And she smiled so sadly, as she replied: 
                           "If I can only finish it; but I don't knit now as I used to-I grow tired so soon." 
                           Grossvater is making a beautiful book for a journal, of nice paper all sewed together, and bound in his own fashion, with morocco paper; the dear old saints' pictures on the front page, for there is a deep conviction that they will never celebrate another anniversary of their wedding day; I read it in every action of their daily lives. 
                           Our good Fraulein is full of business, for she has eight skirts to make before Christmas, something for our box, and all her winter stores to put up. 
                           We think of going around to help her, for I know that she cannot accomplish all. She has been nursing Frau von Wagener's children through the measles; and the little things are so accustomed to her soothing tenderness, that they cry for her whenever she is absent. She is a dear good soul, and Heidelberg will miss our little Fraulein when she is called away. 
                           She has her odd ways yet. An old ricketty apple-cart broke down at our door, when she was visiting us; the poor woman's arm was broken, and she was brought into our house to be examined, Fraulein saying for the fiftieth time, I dare say: 
                           "That reminds me of the time when the Grand Duke's carriage broke down at our door: his royal highness was not much hurt, but her highness had her arm broken just like this poor woman; just try to be still, my good friend-the royal lady did not say one word." 
                           "She was not so dreadfully hurt, I guess," was her answer. 
                           "But she was her royal highness, you know, and yet she did not make such a dreadful fuss." 
                           "My arm is as good as hers, any day," said the woman. 
                           "Now don't get angry," said Fraulein, as she bustled round, seeming to know just what to do; "I can set it, and I'll save the expense of a doctor; only be quiet. I have set two arms before, and Doctor Niblo said that it was an elegant job for a woman; just bring me some bandages and some splints, and I'll fix it all right." 
                           And really the little lady did set the arm neatly; then running out for a wagon, she helped the woman carefully in, and drove off with her to her home; and I rather think the patient was very thankful when the doctor said that it was set as well as a surgeon could have done; and the poor thing kissed Fraulein's hands, as many other sufferers have done before. 
                            
                           Uncle Heinrich will send a copy of the new opera as soon as it is finished; it is called "The Battle of Waterloo;" I know that you will be charmed with it; we all think it very fine. Uncle is a great composer, and we are all proud of him; I know that you are. 
                           The door has just opened; Barbara is there with your letter in her hand just as glad as all the rest; Gretchen clapping her hands, and the Professor disturbed by the noise, has come in from the parlor, anxious to hear the news. I must lay down my pen a minute and read your welcome letter. 
                           In the midst of most eager listeners it has been read, and we are made so happy by its contents. 
                           I am glad to find such a cheerful spirit pervading its latter lines, and hope that you will apply yourself diligently to daily duties-thus the time will pass swiftly and delightfully, that brings you among us once more. 
                           Write soon and often to us; the plan of snatching a few minutes now and then is a good one, for thus we get a sweet, long letter. 
                           Gute nacht! mein liebling, mein dochter. God bless you forever more, prays your own aunt, 
                           
                              MINA.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               THE ISLAND OF CALYPSO. 
               MEIN OWN DEAR COUSIN.-I am beginning to feel quite at home, for the teachers are so kind to the stranger; they seem to know what it must be to be so far away from home, and so they grant me many privileges in company with Aunt Margarethe. She is a wise and loving friend, as well as an accomplished lady, and I see now why my father wished her to have charge of the last years of my school life. She has told me much about my dear mother, how they loved each other, and how good she was, telling me that all the peasants around the castle used to honor the kind lady, for she seemed to feel that her wealth was only lent to her that she might bless others, and there was not an humble family within reach who did not receive marks of her tender care and sympathy. And so I learn from this, dear Magda, what I must do when I am of age. The teachers are all so good; I am often allowed to visit my friend Rika, and last Saturday was one of those pleasant days. In the afternoon we crossed the Lehigh to the Island of Calypso, where the people spend the afternoon very much as we do at home. I was quite disturbed when I found that Rika's tall, wise brother was to be of the party. He has a very grave face, but when he talks, it lights up with such a kind, bright smile. He saw that I was a very bashful girl, and so with one of those pleasant smiles he helped me into the boat, and saw us both comfortably seated before we rowed off. 
               He was so good to Rika, and I thought how pleasant it must be to have such a brother. But I have three that I love as well as she loves her brother Rudolph. 
               He tried to make me feel at ease by talking to me, but I would rather have been quiet, listening to him and Rika. 
               "Have you traveled much in Germany?" he inquired. 
               "Very little," I replied, much embarrassed, "only to Heidelberg and Berlin." 
               "Do you like Berlin, Fraulein?" 
               "O, yes," I answered, but could say no more. I did wish that he would not talk to me, or else that I was out of the boat. 
               "Have you brothers and sisters, Fraulein?" 
               "O, yes," I replied again, "seven, or rather cousins," and I saw him smile then. I guess that he thought I was nothing but a goose, and much to my relief, he talked to Rika the rest of the way. 
               The row was delightful, and landing on the island, I found it was a place where the people have their picnics. It put me in mind of our gardens across the Neckar, only the Lehigh is so much narrower, and here we have no hotels, no summer houses. There is a carpet of soft green grass, a large grove of fine trees, iron cross-bars on which kettles are suspended for making tea or coffee; tables and benches in profusion, and I found that Rika had brought a basket of provisions, that we might enjoy our supper on this delightful island-a little too cool, however, on this afternoon. 
               Rudolph had brought his flute, and a copy of Schiller's poems, and Rika had her guitar. Of course we had some sweet music, for they both play well, and Rika has a sweet voice. We knew many of the same songs, and I believe that Rudolph was quite pleased with our singing. We had some nice buns and coffee, and delicious pears, and after that Rudolph entertained us with accounts of the fine scenery in his own State, telling us some sprightly stories of his travels. Then he read to us some of Schiller's most beautiful poems, and they had new charms when uttered by his melodious voice, and fine expression. 
               I found myself quite at ease before the afternoon was over, chatting about Heidelberg, and the old ruins, about the Neckar, and our grand mountains. 
               It was so good in Rudolph to talk so pleasantly to such a young thing as I; I think that he really pitied my bashfulness. 
               The declining rays of the setting sun warned us that it was time to return, and we had a most delightful row home, lengthening it a couple of miles on the lovely river. 
               "Is he not all that I described?" inquired Rika, when we were alone. 
               "He is very intelligent," I replied, "and so kind to a little school-girl." 
               "That is not all," said the sister, "he is such a darling brother, and such a dutiful son; he likes your singing, Pansy, and wants us three to learn some pieces together." 
               "I should be almost afraid to sing with him, Rika." 
               She laughed heartily. 
               "Afraid of our Rudolph! he is just the kindest and best of human beings, Pansy." 
               "I suppose he is," I said, "but he is so tall and grave, so learned, and every way so superior, that I cannot help feeling a little afraid before him." 
                
               Last evening, Aunt Margarethe and I walked in the cemetery. It is a blessed resting-place for the dead, Magda; so shady, so peaceful, so retired, the gates always open, mothers often bringing their sewing there, while their little ones play around, for there are no associations of gloom with this family resting-place. It is one great household of faith, where there are no distinctions; the men on one side, the women on the other, the little children by themselves, with only a very small piece of marble lying flat upon the graves, with the simple name and age of the departed. We naturally feel that we should like to sleep side by side with those we loved, but the Moravian idea is that it is one great family, bound by a common tie. We stayed there until sunset, when suddenly the most delicious strains of plaintive music came stealing upon the air. They seemed to come from heaven. Looking upward, we perceived in the steeple of the church several musicians, playing on the trombones a funeral dirge of the sweetest melody. 
               I asked: "What does it mean, Aunt Margarethe?" 
               Before she had time to reply, Rudolph, who had just joined us, answered: 
               "It is one of our Moravian customs, when one of our members departs this mortal life, to announce the death thus from the steeple of the church." 
               We stood in silence listening for some time, the sweet strains breathing not only a farewell to earth, but a blessed welcome home. 
               I sat down on one of the seats, Rudolph and Rika following. 
               "I love to come here," said the young man; "it is so sweet to sit awhile among the sleepers, and to think of the time when these graves shall open, and the long lost come forth." 
               "But it looks very dreary," I said, "to leave our dear friends down in the dark grave." 
               Rudolph smiled, saying: 
               "They are not here, Pansy, only the caskets which contained them; they are with the Lord, and we shall see them again in their resurrection bodies, just like the Master's risen form." 
               I listened Magda, to the wise, good teacher, and I thought what a blessed lot is theirs, who know that they have a conscious hope of that blessed, glorious day. 
               The sweet strains had died away, and we left the cemetery together, the brother and sister parting with us at the door of the school. 
                
               The weather is growing very cold, my out-door exercise rather limited; for snow is almost always on the ground, and so our sports are in the schoolyard. 
               But there is quite a stir among the girls, for Christmas is coming, and they are all wondering what the boxes will bring. 
               I shall miss our bright holiday week, and I know that you will all miss Pansy. *   *   * 
               Christmas Eve is here. Aunt Margarethe and I stood on the piazza after supper, looking out upon the wintry sky, so clear, so filled with bright and shining stars. 
               We talked of the song of the angels on the plains of Judea, and I wished that they would come again, as in the olden times. 
               Aunt Margarethe smiled, and said: 
               "Why, Pansy, they are doubtless with us, though we do not see them; for the blessed Book says, 'are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?' It is a very thin veil that divides us from the world of spirits." 
               "Perhaps my dear mother may be my guardian angel, Aunt Margarethe," I said. 
               "Perhaps so, mein liebling; who can tell? But we know that we shall see her and know her in that world of glory." 
               By dawn of day, the girls were all called up to go in procession to the chapel belonging to the school, each with her lighted candle, singing sweet Christmas hymns, receiving a slice of cake. 
               After breakfast, the girls were all called in to open their boxes; what was my joy to find that I had one too. 
               Aunt Margarethe had kept the secret well, and enjoyed my surprise. 
               First, I took out my lovely hood, knit by dear grossmutter, and my beautiful book, by grossvater; such a lovely poem from Ernest; and the prettiest picture from Conrad, of dear Aunt Mina and Uncle Hienrich; and then the nicest warm winter sacque, from Magda; a bracelet from Thekla and Gretchen, with their hair; from Fritz such a curious game, and little Meta's pretty hymn-book; from Uncle Heinrich his new opera, which I shall learn; from dear Aunt Mina so many good things; from good old Barbara, a box of real old Heidelberg doughnuts, and from Cousin Kathie such warm, soft mitts and leggins for the cold winter, so says good, thoughtful Fralein in her little note. 
               Was not I a happy girl, all that Christmas day? and did I not sing with all my heart the praises of the dear Christ-child who has brought so much love to this weary world. 
               I showed all my gifts to Rika, and she was as happy as I, for she had a large lot of love-gifts, too. *   *   *   *   *   * 
               Last Sunday we had the Lord's Supper, and the Bishop welcomed me warmly to the blessed feast. 
               At sundown, the trombones from the church steeple summoned the people, the same sweet music as we heard in the cemetery, and the people were seen coming in all directions to the church. 
               The minister wore the white surplice then, and seated among them I perceived one of the ministers' wives in a white dress too, with the addition of the Moravian cap. 
               After singing several sweet hymns, the service was read, the elements consecrated, and then the minister distributed the wafer, handing one to each communicant, who held it in the hand until all had received the same, after which all kneeling partook of the wafer at the same time, the choir singing sweet, solemn hymns. 
               Then the minister's wife went round with the wine, two partaking at a time, while the choir still continued singing. 
               Several more hymns and some short prayers ended the solemn service; and very precious, dear Magda, was the privilege of sitting down with these pious people at the table of the Lord. 
               In the same week, we had a love feast according to the primitive custom of the early Church. 
               There is a kitchen connected with the church, where the coffee and cake are prepared; and accompanied by hymns expressive of brotherly love, the people partook of this refreshment, interchanging the cup and cake with each other. 
               It is not the mere partaking of the feast together, that makes it so impressive; it is what it teaches, and what these good people practice; for there are proofs all around us, that we may say of them as in apostolic days, "See how these Christians love one another." 
               With warmest love to every one at the Heights, I am your own loving 
               
                  PANSY.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               THE LISTENERS. 
               THE winter storms have passed away, and the breath of the balmy spring is stealing over the green mountain slopes, through the valleys, kissing the early flowers in their cradles, waking the sweet music of the streams that have been frozen so long, and kindling on the cheek of youth the glow of an answering life within. Bertha feels the sweet influence as she stands on the piazza one of these bright mornings, so typical of the resurrection, almost smelling the fragrance of the apple-blossoms far away in the orchard on the heights of Heidelberg. 
               Who has not felt the kindling of joy within the heart in the midst of these heavenly symphonies? for the air is full of music, the heart is flooded with bliss. 
               Who that feels at all is not conscious of a prophet's voice speaking to the immortal of the coming glory? the internal ear hearing the rapturous assurance that death is dying, and amid the grandeur of the second coming will soon be dead. The sky, the air, the bursting flowers, the rippling streams and the singing birds, all joining in the celebration of Nature's jubilee. 
               In harmony with all this beauty Bertha writes, and the eager group at home are listening with earnest attention to the ever-welcome tidings from Bethlehem: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              EASTER MORNING.
                            
                           I wish, dear Aunt Mina, that you could have been with us to-day, when we joined the procession marching out to the cemetery, in memory of the departed who sleep there. 
                           It was a bright and glorious day, and the whole population are expected to join in this celebration. 
                           Preceded by the Moravian band, the music on the trombones most conspicuous, we proceeded to the cemetery; the music of a character suited to the resurrection morning. We entered facing the east, just as the sun rose in his majesty, a burst of triumphant music filling the air. Then the minister read the burial service, and never did those grand sentences sound so full of solemn joy, as when on the Easter morning we listened to that message of heaven, to spirits panting for immortality. 
                           Rika and Rudolph were among the company, having a dear brother and sister sleeping peacefully there. 
                           What would we be, dear Aunt Mina, without this blessed hope? For although life is very full and sweet to me, there is the consciousness of death at last, that would be full of sadness, were it not for the precious Gospel of the Son of God. 
                           It is a beautiful custom, so poetical and impressive, and as we left the cemetery, my two friends joined each other with the salute of the ancient church, "Brother, Christ is risen"-answered by the other, "Christ is risen indeed." 
                           There is a quaint old lady, whom we call Old Mortality; for it is her occupation to take care of the graves of the Indian converts that sleep in the cemetery. Sister Polly's brother was one of the most active and successful missionaries, and the old lady keeps a set of Indian bones to be buried in the grave with her remains. 
                           In accordance with this devotion, once a year she goes the round of the graves, clearing the stones, and trying to keep in sight the names of the departed, and so we call her Old Mortality. 
                           I have learned dear uncle's opera, and take it with me when I visit Rika Schweinitz, Rudolph accompanying me with the flute or violin. 
                           He is a fine musician, and his taste is of great use to me in the performance of delicate passages. 
                           He is so kind and patient with Pansy, just as good to me as to Rika. 
                           I am not at all afraid of Rudolph now; for, though he is such a wise and learned man, he is not above teaching such a young thing as I; and when I am at Rika's, and she is busy at her household work, Rudolph is always ready to instruct me, and so we sit out in the summer-house on the banks of the Lehigh, and spend such blessed hours there, Rika running out now and then, saying so pleased: 
                           "This is right, this is good;" and kissing us both, she runs away. These are happy hours, dear Aunt Mina. Rudolph thinks that he will come to Germany some time, for he has an aunt and uncle there, and has a great desire to see the fatherland. 
                           We talk about it very often, and I tell him all my plans for doing good in my home on the Rhine, and Rudolph smiles approval and says: 
                           "God bless you, Pansy, and I know He will." 
                           It would be so pleasant if Rudolph and Rika would both come to Germany; we talk it over very often. 
                            
                           We had a short Easter holiday, and Mrs. Weiss gave her consent for me to accept an invitation to go to the Delaware Water Gap, in company with Rudolph, Rika, Aunt Margarethe, Miss Hetty Clare, a very witty lady, and two other visitors. 
                           We took two carriages, and Miss Clare amused us very much, giving us all distinguished names. Our driver was Herr Hitzelberger, the ladies, German Baronesses, with hard names. We took our lunch with us, and stopped on the way to refresh ourselves, under the shade of green trees; passing through Cherry Valley, a most lovely region of country, the white pebbles along the road showing that it was once submerged, none can guess how many hundreds, perhaps thousands of years ago. Passing many lime-kilns, Miss Clare gave them the names of castles on the Rhine. We reached the Water Gap about four in the afternoon, found a dear little hotel on the banks of the river, just in sight of the Gap, in the mountains. 
                           The house was small, but well-kept; silver forks and spoons, table napkins, excellent fare, the loveliest scenery, and most delightful company. 
                           Miss Clare was bent upon amusement, so she carried on the game of the Baronesses, writing our names on the house out on the balcony, and talking in such a manner as to excite much curiosity among the boarders, who wondered and wondered who we really were. 
                           Rika slept in the room adjoining some of the ladies, and overheard the talk about the new arrival, one saying that "one was an authoress," which was the fact concerning Miss Clare. 
                           The mountains are lovely: on one side of the river, Hoary Head, a gray rocky mountain, towering up toward heaven; on the other, a mountain wooded to the top; the gap between looking as if the rents were exactly fitted to each other, the wide gap the result of some great convulsion of nature in the past ages. 
                           After breakfast, we took a stroll up the mountain to Table Rock, Rudolph kindly helping me over the steep places until we reached the summit, where we had a charming view of the surrounding country. 
                            
                           Beautiful, dear aunt, but not so grand as our glorious mountains in the dear fatherland, and so I said to Rudolph. He laughed in reply, saying: 
                           "All right, Pansy, but I believe that this love of the fatherland beats strongly in the heart of every German." 
                           And so it does, dear aunt, for when I set foot again upon my dear native soil, I am sure that I could kiss the ground. 
                           When we descended, we found a most unwelcome visitor at the hotel; for just at the door a copperhead, one of the most poisonous of snakes, had made his appearance, biting one of the poor horses; and so, having seen all that we desired, we turned our faces homeward, leaving the boarders to wonder about the digtinguished party, Miss Clare laughing heartily at the success of her sport. 
                           I send the box by this steamer, and hope that it will reach you in safety. 
                           Aunt Mina will find a beautiful needle-book and pin-cushion, Magda and Thekla each a needle-book, Gretchen, Fritz and Meta each a moss picture, Conrad a collection of minerals, Ernest some fine botanical specimens, and Fritz a large number of bugs, beetles, and other insects, all classified by Brother Wooley. Grandmother a branch, made of our hair; Grandfather a picture of the Lehigh, painted by Pansy; Fraulein a needle-book, and good old Barbara a large pincushion made by Sister Polly. There is a picture, too, for Uncle Heinrich, of Mount Niskey. 
                           The pictures are not much, I think; but Rudolph says that they are pretty good attempts, and I have promised to paint him one. 
                           I think Fraulein might imitate some of the needle-work. I know that she will try. Rika is such a dear, true friend-never afraid to tell me the truth, and point out my faults; we are in the same classes now, learning many of our pieces of music together. Rudolph, too, is one of my best friends; we are quite intimate, he often using thou and thine when he speaks to Pansy. I suppose that he has the same queer fancy about the words that Ernest has, and somehow I like them very much. I cannot bear to think of the time when we must part; for in September I shall have completed one year of my school life, thus reminded how soon the other two years will roll away. 
                           I see you all around the box. I do hope that the gifts will please you, and keep fresh in your memory your own loving 
                           
                              PANSY.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Very different were the emotions of the listeners. While unmingled joy filled the hearts of most who sat with eager ears intent upon the contents of Bertha's letter, Ernest was moody and gloomy, impatiently striking his foot whenever the name of Rudolph occurred in the letter; and at the close, rushing from the house, he walked for two miles up the river, muttering to himself: 
                
               "Thou and thine, indeed! What business has he to use such words to Bertha! I wish that he would upset in some of those Lehigh excursions; two years more of this sort of thing is a little too much to bear." 
               All the rest of the day, Ernest was cross and sullen, scarcely noticing Bertha's lovely collection of plants, muttering: 
               "I dare say that Rudolph was consulted about them, before they were sent off." 
               Next day, however, the youth was ready to put away among his treasures this fine addition to his cabinet of curiosities; his pleasure much diminished, however, by the thought that Conrad and Fritz were equally distinguished; and so he locked his cabinet with an angry snap. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               FRITZ AND THEKLA. 
               ALTHOUGH popular at the University, Fritz is a fiery young fellow, and often gets into scrapes with the students, especially with Max Hellings, who takes pleasure in annoying the irritable youth. He has a large share of family pride, and if any one touches that, he is very soon in a blaze. 
               One day at recess, he was sure that he heard Thekla's name spoken lightly by Max in conversation with another student, and although generally ashamed of the meanness of listening, could not resist the temptation now, especially as he feared that there was too much truth in their remarks. 
               "She is a handsome girl, no doubt," said Max, "but not the most respectable; for mother would not allow my sister to invite her to her party last winter." 
               "You don't say so," replied his companion; "but I have observed that Thekla has not many companions among the girls of Heidelberg; what is the matter, Max?" 
               "Why you see, Jacob, that she is in the habit of walking out after dark with Berthold Mller, and we all know what he is." 
               "I would not let my sister be seen in his company," was the reply. 
               "Why, the other night I was passing through the castle grounds after nine o clock, and whom should I see but Berthold and Thekla; a girl that does that, cannot expect to keep her good name." 
               At that moment, Fritz sprang forward, doubling his fist, saying in a most excited way: "Who dares to speak a word against my sister Thekla?" 
               Max laughed scornfully as he replied: "Her name is in every one's mouth, and you need not fly into such a passion about it, Fritz; if she behaved in a discreet manner, there would be none of these rumors. Do you ever hear such things said of your sister Magda, or my sister Otelia? but Thekla is weak and vain, and must expect all that she gets; mother does not allow my sister to speak to her." 
               "If you say another word I will knock you down," replied Fritz, transported beyond all self-control. 
               "I say that she can't think much of herself if she associates with Berthold Mller; if she were my sister, I would be ashamed of her, I know that." 
               Fritz was just about to strike a blow at Max, when Jacob interfered. 
               "Stop that, Fritz; you are making a fool of yourself, for you know that much of this is true. Come with me, boy; I am not going to let you two fight." 
                
               And with these words, Jacob led the angry youth away. 
               Very bitterly was his spirit chafed by these scornful words, and walking home after the session closed, he went through the castle garden, hoping thus to calm his angry emotions. 
               Seating himself in one of the arbors, he thought over his sister's disgrace; for no young girl can have such things said of her, without injury. 
               He was rising to leave the place, when in a lonely part of the ground he perceived his sister and the forbidden companion. They were walking slowly together, Thekla's eyes bent upon the ground, so that she did not perceive Fritz approaching. 
               Still under the influence of passion, he advanced angrily toward the two. 
               "What are you doing here with this young man, Thekla?" said her brother. 
               "What right have you to ask, I should like to know?" was her quick reply. 
               "The right of a brother, Thekla, who regards your reputation worth caring for, if you do not." 
               "What have I done, Fritz, to expose myself to such remarks?" 
               "You have done much, Thekla; who ever heard of a young girl that respects herself, walking alone at night, with such a character as Berthold Mller?" 
               "What have you to say, sir, against me?" now retorted the young man. 
               "You are not a proper companion for my sister, and besides that, the intimacy is forbidden by our parents, and Thekla knows it. Come home with me at once," said the youth, placing his sister's arm within his own. 
               "Let me alone, Fritz," said his sister, "I will not go with you; you are beside yourself." 
               Berthold stepped forward. 
               "Unhand your sister, sir," said the excited man. 
               "I will not leave her with you, sir," was the angry reply. "I insist upon your going home with me, Thekla." 
               "I will not be driven, Fritz." 
               "You begone, sir," said the youth, turning to Berthold, extending his hand as if to strike, the attempt resisted by a swift flash of a little dagger, plunged into the outstretched hand. 
               It bled profusely, and Berthold, afraid that he had seriously wounded Fritz, speedily took his departure. 
               The young man was soon faint from the loss of blood, and Thekla led him to a seat. 
               "Why are you so hasty, Fritz?" inquired his sister. 
               "If you had heard what I have to-day from the lips of two students, you would not be surprised at my rage, Thekla." 
               Washing off the blood as well as she could, and tying up the hand with her pocket handkerchief, Thekla took her brother's arm, and turned her face homeward, somewhat sobered at the end of the day's adventure. Fritz related the conversation that he had overheard, asking Thekla what she thought of such a tale as that. 
               "I don't deserve it, Fritz; and Berthold is just as good as either of those young men. I don't believe half of the stories about him, and I will not give up his acquaintance; every one is persecuting him, and I am not going to turn against him. I know that he has been a little wild, but he is trying to reform, and we ought to help him, instead of pushing him down." 
               Fritz told his story at home, Thekla having little to say in her defense, maintaining an obstinate silence to all her mother's remonstrances. 
               Gretchen was indeed an indignant little body, kissing the poor wounded hand, and heaping reproaches upon Berthold Mller. 
               "Suppose that he had struck a little higher, Fritz he might have killed you, and then what would have become of me! But what makes you get into such passions, Fritz?" 
               "If you had heard the two scamps speaking against our Thekla, you would have been enraged too." 
               "She has brought it all upon herself, Fritz; and I am out of all patience with her; she is not worth caring about, such an obstinate, disobedient girl!" 
               Grossmutter was deeply pained by the present state of affairs, for she loved every member of her daughter's family. 
                
               Thekla saw that the old lady was seeking an opportunity for an interview, but most studiously she avoided all attempts for a private talk. At length grossmutter sought the opportunity one day after supper, and laying her hand affectionately upon Thekla's arm, she said: 
               "Come to my room, mein dochter;" and Thekla could not refuse the appeal on the dear face. After grossmutter had retired for the night, we find Thekla following, but most unwillingly, for she knew what was coming. 
               "Be seated, mein dochter; come near me, Thekla," and taking her hand within her own, she continued: 
               "You must know why I have called you here, Thekla-we are all so troubled about you. Do you remember the story, told years ago, about the Plague Spot?" 
               "I do, grossmutter, but it is not a very pleasant story." 
               "I did not mean it to be pleasant, Thekla; it taught a solemn truth, and I fear that there is quite as much need now as then for its teachings." 
               "I do not see what I have done so very wrong, grossmutter." 
               "Is it not sinful to deceive your parents, Thekla? such good, kind parents, too?" 
               "If they were not so strict, I should not be so tempted." 
               "Don't you see, Thekla, how you are exposing yourself to remarks on the street by this intimacy?" 
                
               "It is nobody's business but my own, and I am willing to bear all the consequences." 
               "Foolish girl! you do not think of the consequences. Look at Nina Hopper; she married just such a man, and look at her now." 
               "Berthold is not like her husband, grossmutter." 
               "Not yet, perhaps, but he is on the road, and will drag you down with him." 
               "Every one is against me, and there is no use of my trying to please; so I'll take my own way, and I'll come out as well as any of the rest." 
               "Against you, Thekla! Poor misguided girl! how mistaken you are! It is just because we love you, that we interfere in a case like this. I can see nothing but ruin and misery before you, Thekla." 
               "Poor Berthold has no friend but me, and I don't know what will become of him if I forsake him." 
               "Let me put the opposite question, Thekla; what will become of you, if you join your fate with his? Your poor mother is sick with grief, and if you persevere in this matter, you will destroy the peace of the whole family. Won't you promise to give him up." 
               "I cannot, grossmutter; it would drive him to destruction." 
               The old lady saw that her remonstrances were all in vain, and therefore dismissed her willful grandchild with the words: "Gute nacht, mein dochter; may the good Father of us all change your heart, and lead you into the right way." 
                
               Thekla kissed the old lady as she bade her "gute, nacht!" for notwithstanding her perverseness, there was that in grossmutter's character which won and held all hearts. But the poor girl was possessed with the idea that all were her enemies, especially Fritz, scarcely noticing him in the family circle, maintaining a dogged silence in the household, only meeting the family at the table, spending her time in her own room. 
               For awhile, Thekla stood aloof, only going into the sick room once a day, to inquire after her mother's health, leaving all the tender offices of a daughter to Magda and Gretchen. 
               But the sight of the sorrowful face touched her heart at length, and one day, throwing her arms around her mother's neck, she sobbed out: 
               "I promise to give him up, mother; but it will break my heart." 
               "Bless you, mein liebling," was the low reply. "I would not grieve you, Thekla, but I know the grief that would follow such a union." 
               And so we find Thekla writing a farewell note to Berthold, spreading a pall of gloom over the house by the woe-begone face that she wore. 
               "I am glad that you have come to your senses, Thekla," said Fritz, when told what had been done. 
               "It is all your fault, Fritz; if you had let Berthold alone, your hand would never have been wounded, and I should not have been so wretched, as I am to-day." 
                
               "You will not feel so always, Thekla?" 
               "I shall never know happiness again-no, never." 
               So listless and unhappy did the willful girl appear, that the good mother thought it advisable to send her awhile from home, and in company with Magda, she went to pay a visit to her aunt on the banks of the Neckar. 
               A few lines to Laneta Carlstadt announced her vicinity to her friend; accordingly we meet the latter on a visit to Thekla, who confided her griefs to the young lady, by no means a proper adviser for one like Thekla, who promised to stop at Laneta's for a week or two, on her way home-the imprudentfriend most unwisely acquainting Berthold with the expected visit. 
               Closing her visit to her aunt, she is a most welcome guest to Laneta, and the two spend many dangerous hours of confidence together, Laneta encouraging all Thekla's foolish notions of oppression. 
               One evening, when they were walking out together, Thekla was startled by the sight of a figure that she knew too well. 
               "Oh, Laneta! there is Berthold-let us hurry into the house, for I must not see him." 
               "This is the way that you treat the poor fellow, Thekla. I should not be surprised if he would drown himself, for he is a most miserable man." 
               By this time he was gaining upon them, and poor Thekla advanced a few steps to meet him. 
               "Why did you come, Berthold?" she exclaimed, 
                
               "Do you know that you are driving me distracted, Thekla? Life is nothing to me now; if you forsake me, I don't care how soon I throw it away." 
               Thekla wrung her hands in agony, and said: 
               "What must I do, Laneta?" 
               "Try him once more, Thekla. You will lead a better life; won't you, Berthold?" 
               "I promise, Thekla. Do you know that I have not tasted a drop of liquor for weeks; just help me, Thekla." 
               All her promises vanished into thin air, and extending her hands, she said: 
               "There is my faith again, Berthold; only keep your promise, and there may be hope yet." 
               "Heaven bless you, Thekla, for I have none but you;" and with these words, large tears dropped one by one over his handsome face. 
               Walking for an hour together in the twilight, Laneta saw that all was right again, for so she termed the reconciliation; but poor misguided Thekla entered upon another course of deception. 
               In a few days Fritz came to take her home, coolly received, however, and the brother had his own private thoughts. 
               A marked change was seen in Thekla's conduct on her return; the melancholy had disappeared, still subject to unaccountable fluctuations, sometimes deeply depressed; never reposing sisterly confidence in Magda, who felt the signs to be ominous of evil. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               ASPIRATIONS. 
               VACATION is here, and Bertha is spending some weeks with Rika, in South Bethlehem; a very sweet and quiet home, with a little garden in front of the house, the back lawn sloping down to the Lehigh, where there is a neat summer-house, and a boat moored to the banks of the river. Rika is a busy housewife, consequently cannot be with Bertha at all times; but in these intervals, Rudolph is glad to enjoy an hour of pleasant talk with the young girl. 
               She will soon be sixteen, and under the discipline of the institution, the kind care of Aunt Margarethe, and the blessed spirit of truth, Bertha is rapidly developing, thoughtful beyond her years, spiritual beyond what is usual. 
               We will join the two, as seated in the summer-house they are enjoying one of these quiet hours. 
               Bertha is busy with her knitting, and Rudolph, with book lying upon his lap, is studying her thoughtful countenance. 
               "What are you thinking of, Pansy?" said the young man; "You are very serious to-day." 
                
               "You will think me foolish, Rudolph, if I tell you; but I was stepping over the next two years, and with good Aunt Margarethe was rambling amid the hills of our old home on the Rhine"-and then she stopped. 
               "What then, Pansy? Go on, let me hear." 
               "My mutter was so good and useful, Rudolph, always busy among the people; I was wondering how I could do the same, and was planning so many things, and forgot that I shall only be eighteen then; and she was a noble woman, so wise and so good, and I such a feeble young thing, with so little knowledge." 
               Rudolph smiled. 
               "These are wholesome thoughts, Pansy; let them have full play; they are the seeds of a higher life, and will burst some day into a fruitful harvest of precious fruit." 
               "That is what I long for, Rudolph. I was just thinking, too, of the good Fraulein's farewell." 
               "What did she say, Pansy?" 
               "'I shall pray for you, Pansy, and hope that when you come to choose your lot in your fatherland, you will not care for a coronet of nobility, only for one of goodness.' I think of her words so often." 
               "What choice did she speak of?" 
               Then Bertha told about her father's will, and what he desired for her-"But," she continued, "I never could be happy living as my cousins do, in Berlin, with not a thought beyond this world; I am every day looking and longing, not for the things of time, but for the blessed things of a better life." 
               Rudolph looked at the young speaker, as with beaming face she uttered this sentiment. 
               "This is the Master's voice, Pansy, calling you to the higher life, when in the 'days of your youth.'" 
               "How shall I reach it best, Rudolph? I try to spread my wings, but they are held down by so many things." 
               "When a painter wants to produce a fine picture, he studies the works of the best masters, Pansy, does he not?" 
               "Conrad says so, and my uncle Heinrich, who is now a fine composer, has spent his life in the study of the great masters in our dear fatherland." 
               "We learn much from that, Pansy; for our Father has provided just such a study for us in His blessed word, commanding us to be perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect." 
               "That is a hard saying, Rudolph, for how can we ever be like God?" 
               "He knows our weakness, knows that we can never approach the great and holy God, and so He clothes Himself in human flesh, softening this image of grandeur, and helping us in the person of His Son to study the perfect pattern of His humanity; we are not called upon to resemble His divine power and majesty, only the moral traits within our reach; dost see this, Pansy?" 
                
               "I think I do," meekly folding her hands, listening to the words that followed. 
               "The divine Saviour shows us, in his daily life, a pattern of perfect meekness, loveliness, patience, compassion, forgiveness, and love, and tells us to strive to be like that blessed pattern." 
               "We cannot make ourselves like it, Rudolph." 
               "That is true; but the Bible tells us how this is to be done-listen, Pansy: 
               "'But we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord.'" 
               "I see, Rudolph, if we study that blessed picture day by day, looking to the Spirit for help, we shall be changed into His image." 
               "Yes, Pansy; but gradually, that blessed image effacing entirely the old man of sin at last." 
               Pansy lowered her voice. 
               "I don't pray for anything else, Rudolph; if I can only be made like Jesus, I am content that He should choose everything else; but I can never rest until I am certain that that change is going on." 
               "This is what is meant by the apostle, Pansy; when he speaks of Christ dwelling in us, the hope of glory." 
               "It is so blessed, Rudolph, so blessed! such a height! such a depth!" 
               "Thou mayst have many slips by the way, Pansy, but do not be discouraged; if Jesus loved thee well enough to die for thee, will He not freely give thee all the rest that He has promised? For with Himself, He will freely give thee all things." 
               "All things! what a promise! but you are so good, Rudolph, to take so much pains with such a feeble one as I." 
               "Don't think so, Pansy! It is a great privilege to help a young immortal in its aspirations after holy things; so thou must come at all times with thy hopes and fears, thy doubts and thy sweet glimpses of the joys in store for those who love God, and I will listen." 
               Rudolph laid down his book, and said: "It is a delightful day; suppose that we take a row up the river." 
               Laying aside her knitting, and putting on her hat, Bertha gave her hand to Rudolph, who placed her gently in the boat, and rowing her round into the shady part of the river, they sang together the words of a sweet hymn. 
               "Does that express thy feelings, Pansy?" inquired her companion. 
               "Fully-does it find a response with you?" 
               "Entirely, and I doubt not that wherever we find a child of God, we find the same experience." 
               "The children of the kingdom have one common language, Rudolph." 
               "Yes, Pansy, feeble and imperfect here in its utterance; in the world that is coming, full and triumphant as the song of the redeemed. But in the fatherland, where there is so much of what is called the religion of nature, where didst thou learn to lisp the language of the kingdom?" 
               "Only in the Bible, Rudolph; for ever since I could read, I have studied the blessed Book, especially all that relates to Jesus." 
               "That is the secret, Pansy; keep close to that, and thou art safe." 
               It was a delightful row on the lovely river, and slowly the two turned homeward, singing sweet airs together. 
               Rika was waiting for them on the bank, so pleased to see the intimacy between the two that she loved so dearly. 
               They walked up to the house together, Rudolph going to his study, and Rika whispering to Bertha: 
               "You are not afraid of Rudolph now, Pansy?" 
               Laughing, she replied: 
               "Was it not queer? he is just as kind as if he were my brother, and he teaches me so much, Rika." 
               Rudolph thought much of the portrait so artlessly revealed in their many interviews, and handing his sister Mrs. Browning's poem, he said: 
               "That is Pansy." 
                      
                        "I will paint her as I see her: 
                        Ten times and six have lilies blown,; 
                        Since she looked upon the sun. 
                        And her face is lily-clear, 
                        Lily-shaped, and drooped in duty 
                        To the law of its own beauty. 
                     
                     
                      
                        "Oval cheeks encolored faintly, 
                        Which a trail of golden hair 
                        Keeps from fading off to air; 
                        And a forehead fair and saintly, 
                        Which two blue eyes undershine, 
                        Like meek prayers before a shrine. 
                     
                      
                        "Face and figure of a child, 
                        Though too calm, you think, and tender, 
                        For the childhood you would lend her. 
                        Yet child, simple, undefiled, 
                        Frank, obedient-waiting still 
                        On the turnings of your will. 
                     
                     
                      
                        "Quiet talk she liketh best, 
                        In a bower of gentle looks, 
                        Watering flowers, and reading books- 
                        And her voice, it murmurs lowly, 
                        As a silver stream may run, 
                        Which yet feels, you feel the sun. 
                     
                      
                        "And her smile, it seems half holy, 
                        As if drawn from thoughts more far 
                        Than our common jestings are. 
                        And if any poet knew her, 
                        He would sing of her with falls 
                        Used in lovely madrigals. 
                     
                      
                        "And if any painter knew her, 
                        He would paint her unaware 
                        With a halo round her hair, 
                        And if reader read the poem, 
                        He would whisper, "You have done a 
                        Consecrated little Una." 
                     
                      
                        "And a dreamer, (did you show him 
                        That same picture,) would exclaim, 
                        'Tis my angel with a name!" 
                     
                  
                
                
               Rika read it, exclaiming: 
               "A perfect likeness of our Pansy!" 
               It is now the last of July, and there is the prospect of one of those heavy rains which so often occur in the summer. 
               Rudolph is absent for a short time, and the family separate as usual, the good Bishop looking out as he closed the shutters before retiring, and saying: 
               "I wish that Rudolph was at home; there will be a heavy swell in the river to-night." 
               The rain continued falling in heavy sheets of water, and Rika, the first to awake, said: 
               "Don't you hear that roaring, Pansy? I am afraid that we are going to have trouble." 
               Looking out, she saw with dismay that the river was rising rapidly, and would soon flood that part of Bethlehem. 
               "What shall we do?" said the young girl; "this is a freshet, and the increased roaring shows what is coming. There are no boats in sight, and no help near; where can Rudolph stay so long?" 
               By this time, the water had risen to the tops of the windows of the first story, and was rapidly swelling. 
               It was midnight, and the darkness was terrible; for amid the roaring waters, now and then a voice would reach them, calling for help in tones of agony. 
               Bertha looked out once with a blanched cheek and quivering lip. 
                
               "What is to be done, Rika?" 
               "Nothing, Pansy, unless help comes from without." 
               At that moment, a voice was heard calling out: 
               "Are you there, Frederica?" 
               "We shall drown, brother," was the reply. 
               "How many are in the room?" 
               "Four, brother-oh! come, come!" 
               A closed lantern shone out in the darkness, and Rudolph called out: 
               "I have two boats; let one descend at a time, but be calm and cautious. God help us!" 
               By the help of the lights within, and the lantern without, the boat could be distinguished tossing about in the troubled water, for the wind was high. 
               "You must go first," said Rika to her parents. 
               "Yes, yes," said Bertha, "go, go; we can be spared better than the good Bishop." 
               But the boat was too far from the window to reach it. 
               "Go to the balcony, brother," said Rika; "they can reach you there." 
               Without the loss of a minute, the boat moved round, and springing into the balcony, while his companion held the boat, in an instant his father was safe, soon followed by his terror-stricken mother; and the boat, under the care of the boatman, moved off to a place of safety, the wind howling and the rain descending in torrents. 
               The two girls, with hands clasped and hearts uplifted to heaven, in silence waited for the signal to enter the other boat; but it had slipped away, and they heard Rudolph calling: 
               "Be calm, help is coming." 
               "Do you hear, Rika?" said Bertha; "he is swimming for the boat-God help him!" 
               "He will be lost in the darkness," answered the husky voice, in agony. 
               "Jesus was on the dark sea of Galilee, Rika; all is not lost yet-I am sure that I hear another voice." 
               "So do I; it is our neighbor Schwartz," replied Rika. 
               "I heard Rudolph's voice," whispered Bertha; "he is coming near, but the water is up to the window now, and it will be easier for us to get in." 
               In the next minute, a cheery voice was heard: 
               "Step in, Pansy, but carefully." 
               "Not first, Rudolph; Rika, go, I entreat you." 
               "Do not lose one minute," called Rudolph, as he raised his sister in his arms; but just as Bertha was about to follow, the sudden jar of the boat confused her, and she missed her footing, falling into the surging waves in the darkness. 
               Rudolph dashed out right and left, calling to the drowning girl, receiving but one faint answer: 
               "I am here, Rudolph." 
               The intervening moments seemed ages to Rika, but there was a sound as of one struggling with the water, approaching nearer and nearer, with words full of tender feeling. 
                
               "Have you found her, Rudolph?" cried his sister, as he reached the boat. 
               "She is here-but alas! I know not what I am bringing, a living or a dead Pansy." Placing her in the boat entirely insensible, they rowed rapidly to the nearest house that had escaped the flood, and placing the apparently lifeless form on the floor, the usual restoratives were applied for a long time without success, but Rudolph worked with a desperate energy, until the physician arrived, and cheered their hearts by telling them that there was still vitality in the corpse-like figure. 
               After the lapse of an hour longer, there was a deep sigh, and then another, and Rudolph, clasping his hands, said: "She is saved, Frederica, thank God! thank God! stay with her, sister, and I will go in search of our parents." 
               Hurrying away, he found them in charge of Christian Hertzog, calm and unharmed, but very anxious about the three whom they had left in the house. 
               "Give God the praise, my son," said the good Bishop; "we have had a narrow escape from a watery grave, for four bodies have already been washed up on the land." 
               It was some time before Bertha entirely recovered consciousness, frequently sinking away as the remembrance of the night's peril came over her. 
               But when able to recall the events of the night, she felt conscious of a strong arm thrown around her, her head upon Rudolph's breast, and a voice full of feeling whispering, "Thou art safe, mein liebling, God be praised! for how could I lose thee, Pansy!" 
               When Rudolph returned in the morning, she was quite recovered, and raising her sweet blue eyes to his face, she said: 
               "I was very near the heavenly shore, Rudolph but your strong hand brought me back." 
               "Give God the praise, Pansy; for we were in great peril." 
               Many a time, after that wonderful night, would, she recall the whispered words from Rudolph's lips, the remembrance making a degree of shyness on the part of the young girl, never known before. 
               Aunt Margarethe knew nothing of the danger until Bertha was all right again, and the meeting between the two was full of grateful tears and warm kisses of affection, for Bertha often said, that "few were so blessed as she, to have two such tender mothers in her state of orphanage, one in each land." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               WITHOUT AN ANCHOR. 
               THUS writes Ernest-"A whole year has passed since thou didst leave us with naught but thy memory, Pansy, the shadows darkening every day around the old House on the Heights, my only refuge intense application to my studies, with the hope of drowning thought. Darkness, doubt, uncertainty, a sense of loneliness, thinking of the driftwood that floats about in the solitude of mountain lakes-for I am that, Pansy. 
               For what is all this striving and struggling for fame? That is but a bubble, that often brings a worn-out, weary brain-for human love, that ends at death and melts away in the great ocean of what? They give it no name at the university to satisfy a thirsty spirit-for God, Pansy! you would say so; but that is only a name for the vast universe, that only is worthy of the name of God. 
               O, for an anchor on which to lean! This keen sense of unrest-this dull, aching pain-fills my heart just now, Pansy; for our dear old grandparents are gone. I did not know how we loved them, until we missed the silver-crowned heads, the serene and holy love that enveloped them both. 
                
               Grossmutter has been fading for some months, symptoms of heart disease developing; her whole soul in the blessed world that she imagines beyond the grave-so calm, so tranquil, Pansy, it was dreadful to think that such a nature is to lose its individual existence beyond the grave. 
               One night, gathered in the family room, she asked for the chapter in the New Testament about the resurrection; mother read it for her, and she listened with such a look of holy peace, as I shall never forget. It is a beautiful fable, Pansy. Then she asked for one of Gelert's sweet hymns, and we sang it together-Conrad and I enjoyed the poetry, the dear old lady the sentiment. I wish that I could believe it-it seems such an anchor to those who embrace it as a divine message; to me, it is only a poem. But to return-grossmutter gave us all her sweet "gute-nacht," and returned to her rest. 
               It was her last, Pansy. I know that you would say her next salutation will be "good-morning." 
               The hours passed silently as usual, with no disturbance; but in the early morning, grossvater called her to ask how she was. 
               There was no answer, and she lay perfectly still; he placed his hand upon the dear face, it was cold-took the small hand within his own, and it fell lifeless upon the bed-felt the once throbbing heart, but it was still. 
               Looking upon the face that he loved so well, he saw the same seraphic smile that rests upon the recently dead, and then he knew that the beloved companion of more than fifty years had left him in the loneliness of his old age. 
               It was a great shock to us all, Pansy. We laid her to rest in one of the most lovely spots in God's Acre, and from that day, we saw that the partner of her pilgrimage would soon follow. 
               He became silent and abstracted; would sit for hours with her Bible in his hand, looking out upon the sky, stretching his gaze beyond the clouds, and singing in a low, trembling voice, her favorite hymns. His step every day became weaker, his eye dimmer, his memory wandering, all his thoughts clustering about the world that held his blessed wife. 
               At last he could not leave his room: there was no disease, the physician said, just the gradual failing of the vital forces; but at the end of six weeks, he passed away from our sight, into the dim world of mystery. Why do we have these human affections to be wrenched so cruelly, and nothing beyond-nothing, Pansy? 
                
               The Christmas came that used to be so joyous on the Heights; there were the gifts, Pansy, and the tree with its candles, and its beautiful glow of love; but thou wert absent, and we could not be joyous as we were once. 
               Our Sundays are dreary, too; for one by one, our party over the Neckar, has been dwindling away-the Professor never goes now, Magda has joined the church-goers-none but Conrad and Thekla, Fritz and Gretchen, and old Barbara, and the garden has lost much of its charm since thou art absent. The winter passed drearily enough, and when the early spring breathed upon the trees and flowers, I used to sit under the apple trees, just on the side where thou and I have sat in the days that are gone; but the fragrance of the blossoms brought naught but sighs, they were so fraught with memories of thee. How will it be when we sit there again, thou and I, Pansy? I feel that thou wilt be changed. 
               I write in all my leisure hours, for I cannot help it, but thou wilt see that my poems are the language of a soul tossed upon the billows of doubt, like Noah's weary dove, seeking a resting-place for the tired foot. Rest! rest! where is it, Pansy? I write my poems, but there is no kind, listening ear to encourage my efforts, that are often so fitful and feeble now-but, Pansy, I am all soul-keen, intense, consuming; and I only find relief in music, taking my flute to the river shore, and breathing out the language of a weary heart. 
                
               The box, with its contents, was full of thee, Pansy-how thou hast grown! The child-glance passing away, and the soul of dawning womanhood looking out of thy deep blue eyes-so much changed; how I study the sweet picture! Thou art a sweet moss-rose bud here in thy modest bearing, but thou wilt be a full blown rose when we see thee again-but for whom, Pansy? The collection of American plants is lovely; so good of thee to think of our fancies. Thy letter about the freshet has just reached us-who is this Rudolph, that engrosses so much of thy time and thy interest, Pansy? Every letter is full of him and Frederica. Are the new friends banishing the old faces? What right had he to save thy life, Pansy? It chafes me to think that I was not there. How I wish that the two years would fly; then we might have thee all to ourselves once more. Conrad has entered the army, and I must follow ere long; a real cross to both of us, but as loyal Germans we must bear it. When our time is out, Conrad will study art on the Continent, and I-well! time will make manifest my future destiny. Thekla troubles us not a little, for there is that about her, that makes us fear that there is something to be concealed; we fear that it is Berthold Mller. Thekla is the only one that has ever shown marks of deception. 
               Fritz is doing well at the university; rather a frolicksome fellow, however. 
               Gretchen is improving daily in her studies; no beauty, Pansy, but sparkling, merry, witty, with a warm, loving heart. The other day old Frau Holbein was buried, and Fritz and Gretchen went to the funeral, for they both said that "many a nice bundle of candy had she made for them." Fritz was so proud of his sister, telling that "poor old Peter Kranz was there," (you know how poor and how lame he is) "there was no one to walk with the poor old fellow, and our Gretchen stepped forward, and offered her arm to help him along; he looked so thankful, and Mina Grimm turned up her nose at our Gretchen, but I was proud of my sister;" so said Fritz. 
               When they came back from the funeral, I heard Gretchen tell our mutter, that "she had a little fight with herself before she could make up her mind, for Peter was very ragged, and not very clean; but as soon as she began to feel a little ashamed of him because he was poor she stepped right up and offered him her arm." That was like our Gretchen, was it not? 
               Meta does not grow at all in body, but wonderfully in mind and heart, winding herself around us day by day-no doubt to melt away too, and leave another chasm in our family circle. 
               When thou writest again, Pansy, find something else beside Rudolph to write about-it is a little tiresome. Forgive me if I have written aught to wound thee, for I would not for the world; but I cannot bear that any stranger should come in between our Pansy and her childhood's friends. I send thee my last song; wilt thou learn it for me? I call it a shadow-thou wilt understand it. Be happy, Pansy; but never, never forget Ernest. 
               The little mutter encloses a few lines: 
               "Ernest has told you of our great loss, Pansy, it came so suddenly, and yet I might have known that it was gradually stealing upon us. But one night, when we were all sleeping so quietly beneath the stars, one of the shining ones came, and carried away our dear old saint, and we knew it not. Our Father above knew that grossvater could not live without her, and so the golden cup was soon broken, the silver cord loosened, and he, too, passed away; but, we can say of both, dear Pansy, 'for so He giveth His beloved sleep.' We shall have them again in the blessed kingdom that is coming. 
               "I am so troubled about Ernest; he is so depressed and gloomy, wandering off by himself, tossed about on the sea of doubt and unbelief, with no rest, poor fellow! Would that he could look for it where it only can be found. I think that he will, Pansy; but it will be through seas of trouble, I fear. 
               "Fritz is much interested in his studies, and not at all affected by the rationalism of the university; he is too easy-going for that, for he says, 'that he is not going to bother himself with their loud-sounding words that mean nothing, with heights and depths that put him out of breath in the chase; the old religion, with its Christ-child and sweet customs, will do well enough for him.'" 
                
               Late in the autumn Bertha and her friend are strolling along the banks of the Lehigh, talking of the future, and dreaming as all young creatures dream, about the world that is before them; Bertha's pictures tures always reflecting her home on the Rhine, a school, a church, a good minister, and flocks of little children. 
               "And you'll come some time, I know, Rika," said the dreamer, "and we'll work together for our Lord and Master." 
               "It may be so at some distant time, Pansy; but I cannot leave my aged parents now." 
               "But you know that Rudolph has often said that you would both visit your Aunt Hilda." 
               Just then there was a stir among the bushes on the bank, and Rudolph appeared. 
               "Did I not hear my name just now?" inquired the young man. 
               "Yes, truly," answered Bertha; "we were just talking about that visit to Germany." 
               "Far off in the future, I fear," was the reply. 
               Bertha smiled. 
               "Would you like to hear my plans, good friends?" 
               "Above all things," replied Rudolph, as he took a seat between the two. 
               "Well! one year of my school life has gone, but two remain, and then I go back to my dear fatherland." 
               "And then-that year at Berlin." 
               "Yes, but it will have an end." 
               "And then, Pansy?" 
               "Back to my home at Heidelberg," and the sweet young face beamed with delight; "and then in the summer, Aunt Mina and Uncle Heinrich, and all of us will go to my home on the Rhine, and we will have it fitted up just to suit Aunt Mina; and then I'll begin life." 
               "But the coronet, Pansy?" 
               She turned to the speaker a face radiant with sweetness, saying in earnest tones: 
               "Aunt Hildegarde's toy, Rudolph, not mine-all gone forever-there!' 
               And she placed her foot firmly upon the ground, as though spurning the bauble. 
               "And that other crown, Pansy?" 
               "It is all that I want for myself, and for all those that I love." 
               "But that visit, Pansy?" 
               "Oh! that is all arranged, too; you will be ordained soon, you know, and you'll help the good bishop for a year or two, and then you can pay us a visit in the summer; and if you once come to Germany, you'll come again, for you have a German name, and I'm sure that you have a German heart." 
               "And that is your dream, Pansy? no clouds between, little dreamer?" 
               "I don't see what can hinder, if we are all alive and well." 
               "Nor I, either," said Rika; "for father has promised that we shall go, and Aunt Hilda has written again and again." 
               In the innocent delight of her pleasant dream, Bertha forgot all her reserve, and enjoyed this hour of unbroken confidence, the three singing together some of their favorite airs. 
               Warned by the evening shadows, the trio returned to the town, parting at the door of the school, met by Aunt Margarethe with a letter in her hand. 
               "From the good Fraulein," said the young girl, as she looked at the superscription, and ran off to her room to devour its contents. 
               "So strange!" thought Bertha; "we were just singing "Sounds from Home," and here they are." 
               So ran the loving lines: 
               I read all thy letters, dear Pansy, and to-day I felt so drawn to Bethlehem, that I had to write. I always look upon such impressions as voices, mein liebling, and so I laid by everything to write to thee. Great changes have passed upon the House on the Heights. It has always been such a happy nest of singing birds, but the good Father who does not forget His children has seen fit to stir up that nest, that the birds may fly heavenward. 
               The good frau is just the same faithful one, not so joyous as formerly, for the empty chairs of the dear old saints bring sadness yet. They were so good and loving, such a bond of union to the whole family, that the rending is felt keenly at the Heights. Conrad, too, is absent in the army; quite a trial to be compelled to go, for his heart is in his chosen profession; he sold a fine picture to the Baron von Meyer just before his departure. 
               We are uneasy about Ernest; these poets have to suffer very much, Pansy; I suppose it has to be, but I don't want you to write poetry-now don't, Pansy; I could not see your eyes grow dim, or your smile fade away. 
               He wanders away so often, and talks so little. He has great gifts, but somehow they don't do any good in this naughty world. I think it is better to make quilts and clothing for poor children, and medicines and good things for poor people. But every one has his gift: I suppose that writing poetry and composing lovely music is Ernest's, but mine is just the other. I like sunshine, Pansy, and I like to scatter it, too. It is very good to have the little ones running after Fraulein in the streets, shaking hands and calling out such pretty words; and when I am sick, to hear so many sweet little voices asking when I will come out again-and then when I get better, to see the bright faces peeping in at the door or window so pleased and happy. That is my sunshine-somehow I like it better than the most beautiful picture that I ever saw in the galleries at Berlin. 
               I was sick for a long time in the autumn, and all the time the good people of Heidelberg were always sending me such nice things; and when I began to get better somebody's carriage was at my door every fine day to take me out riding. I found that I had scores of friends, Pansy. Let me see, I am forty-five now; that is getting on, is it not, Pansy? But I do not feel a bit older than I did at thirty-five. I have no time to get old; that is queer, is it not? Still the years are creeping by, years that we shall never see again-but we have something else beside these poor bodies that must wear out after a while; but while we are so busy and so happy among the young ones we cannot grow very old. 
               There was a sweet picture of that in the good Professor's home-the dear old people every day more and more like children-so contented with everything, ears always open to be taught the Father's lessons, so free from bad thoughts of any one, always ready to make excuses for youthful folly-not imbecile like children, for theirs was a heavenly wisdom taught by the Holy Spirit. 
               The Professor is much changed, Pansy-I always thought it so strange about that oratorio-that he should pass by so many great themes for a musician, and choose the Bible; but it was the hand of the Lord, Pansy, and I soon saw that he was beginning to ask, if this is really to be the history of this world of ours, what part shall I have in the glorious end? 
               The good frau and I used to talk about it, but not to him; we left that to the Lord, and he is giving the answer. He goes constantly to church now, good Doctor Eichenbrodt and he are becoming great friends, for once a week at least he spends an evening at your uncle's, and tells me with so much joy that the good Professor is coming into the kingdom. 
                
               He does not go over the river on Sunday; not that he thinks it wrong to have a closer family reunion on Sunday afternoon, but the frolicking there does not suit our ideas now, Pansy-I write our, for Fraulein thinks the same. But we cannot do without the fresh air, the Professor is so closely confined all the week, and so we stroll off together to some of the lovely spots along the banks of the Neckar, taking some refreshments with us; and we have sweet sacred music under the shade of the green trees, and like this much better than lager beer and coarse jokes. Fritz is a merry lark yet, but improves at the university. Gretchen has grown a head, I am sure; frolicsome still, but so kind-hearted. I have a story about Gretchen. One cold day last winter, I was out on one of my walks among the poor, and saw poor old Frau Mintzer, crippled by rheumatism, gathering sticks for her fire from a pile of chips that lay not far from the church-yard. She looked cast down, poor thing! for she had had a hard day's work. 
               She had not always been alone, for once her cottage was noisy with merry children's voices; but one by one God had called them away, and she was all alone. 
               She felt very lonely that afternoon, and on her way home she passed the church where she had been married long years before, and where the little graves lay, over which she had wept so often. 
               She did not notice that any one was near, but I saw Gretchen not far off, and as the old frau came to the church-yard gate, Gretchen stepped forward and held it open for her, speaking a few kind words, that like a ray of sunlight went right down into the weary heart of the poor old woman, driving all the chill away. 
               Gretchen is not at all pretty, Pansy, but she looked pretty then. 
               It was a little thing, but it made the poor woman feel that she was not quite alone; and Gretchen followed her in, and stood apart while the old frau shed a few tears by the side of the little graves. 
               When she was ready to go, Gretchen had gathered up the bundle of chips, and then I made my appearance, and added my little mite, and I know that old Frau Mintzer had a good supper that night. I don't know which was the happier, Pansy-the old woman who had found, or the child who had brought the sunshine, and carried the chips all the way home to the poor cottage. 
               We met Mina Grim on the way, who turned up her nose; but Gretchen did not drop the chips, nor blush at the thought of her bundle, but just marched bravely on. 
               Oh! I had almost forgotten to say that Ernest has been writing, all winter, for several magazines; has been well paid, and is making quite a name at Heidelberg. 
               What a beautiful Easter morning you describe in your letter; so holy thus to remember the dead. Last All Saints' Day we went to God's Acre; Magda with her wreath of immortelles for Leopold's grave; the good frau with her evergreen and passion-flowers for the dear old saints; and I, with my wreath for Rupert and poor Annita, for there is not one on earth to care for the memory of the poor cripple but myself. 
               I believe that I have told you all the good news; now I have bad tidings of our Thekla. We have all along felt that she was not to be trusted, and has seemed for a long while quite estranged from her family. 
               I have told her all that I know, and all that I thought about Berthold Mller, but she would not believe me; and I am pretty sure that she has been in correspondence with him for many months. Early in September, she went on a visit to Laneta Carlstadt, staying two weeks. At the end of that period, she did not return; waiting another week, the good frau wrote, receiving for an answer the news that she had disappeared suddenly, but they knew not where or how, only that Berthold Mller had been seen in the neighborhood. There was great trouble at the Heights, for no doubt there had been an elopement, and the disgrace of such a step, you know, is very dreadful. 
               In four weeks after that time, a letter arrived from Thekla, stating that she was married to Berthold Mller; had traveled in company with Berthold and his sister, Ella, into Switzerland, where they had been married by a pastor of one of the mountain churches. You know that she could not have been married thus in Germany. We were glad to find that it was no worse. Poor, foolish Thekla has sealed her misery, for Berthold is a man of very bad character, dissolute and idle in his habits; he is going to take Thekla home to his parents in Munich. I am so sorry that such a blight should have fallen upon our good, worthy friends at the Heights. The good frau has written to her daughter, inviting her to come and see them, but no invitation for Berthold, so I suppose that she will not come. 
               More than a year of absence has passed, Pansy, the time of your return drawing on; and I doubt not what the choice will be at the end; for nothing but a crown of goodness can I ever think of for my dear child. 
               I had almost forgotten to write that Jip is well, fat, and saucy as ever; the two birds singing like nightingales. 
               Lizabet is getting a little queer, likes to be mistress here; for you know that she has been with me ever since I was a child. 
               You will get tired of my long letter, I am afraid, but I do not know how to stop when I am writing to you, mein liebling; but, good-bye, now. God bless you, and keep you, and bring you safely back to Heidelberg crowned with goodness, prays your loving friend, 
               
                  KATERINA PETERKIN.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               THOU AND THINE. 
               RUDOLPH has been ordained, and helps the Bishop, who is much away from home. Rika has left school, and Bertha is lonely without her friend, but visits her once a week. She is eighteen now, her character strengthening, her piety deepening-drawn simply from the Bible; there is still that sweet and childlike simplicity that has always made her so charming. 
               Rudolph frequently preaches in his father's absence, and the young minister is making deep impressions by the power of his eloquence, and his scriptural knowledge. 
               No more earnest listener sits before him than Bertha von Eckendorf, her reverence for Rika's brother daily on the increase. And yet there is a bearing of the deepest humility about Rudolph at home, where, as son and brother, his character shines. 
               Bertha's visits to the Schweinitz home are sources of the purest pleasure; for in leisure hours, Rudolph reads to the young girls while they knit or sew, closing their evenings with music, the three voices blending delightfully in singing the sweet German airs. There is always something of sadness now, mingled with Bertha's emotions, for this is her last term at school, and who knows what is in the future? 
               Sometimes when Rika is busy with her household cares, the two stroll along the banks of the Lehigh, talking of the new life that will soon dawn upon Bertha in her own dear vaterland. 
               We will join them in such a walk, where, having crossed the river, they are seated in the grove on the island. 
               They had been talking of her return to her home in Germany, and the joy with which she would be greeted. 
               She had been describing the members of the family on the Heights; had told Magda and Thekla's story; had pictured the good Fraulein, Conrad and Fritz, merry-hearted Gretchen, and the little saintly Meta, Ernest coming last. 
               "You should know our Ernest, Rudolph," said the speaker; "so tall and handsome, with such deep blue eyes, and long, waving brown hair; then he is a true poet, any one might see that in his dreamy, spiritual face; but he is an unbeliever," continued Bertha in a low, sad voice; "I wish that you knew Ernest, I am sure that you could do him good." 
               "How did that happen?" inquired the listener. 
               "I think that Ernest is proud of his talents, and when he went to the university they took a great deal of notice of him, some of the professors inviting him to their houses when the great men came, thus gaining influence over him; then it is the fashion there for the smart ones to sneer at Christianity, and Ernest could not stand that-so he soon forgot his mother's teaching, and joined the sceptics-but it seems to me that their teachings are very shallow, and could easily be blown away by a strong, stalwart Christian like you, Rudolph." 
               "You are very fond of this cousin of yours, Pansy," said the young minister. 
               "Yes, very; I love Ernest more than either Conrad or Fritz," (and Rudolph smiled at the open frankness of the innocent blue eyes,) "you see that Ernest and I like the same things; poetry, music, and lovely scenery, our delight. He used to bring all his scraps to me, for he was unwilling for a time that any one else should read them; then Ernest is a good son, and brother-the very best and dearest to me, for I have no other brother, and he has none of the vices of other young men yet; but I cannot bear to think that he is not a Christian." 
               "And so you think that I can do your cousin good, Pansy-is that so?" 
               "Yes, I know that you can, and when you come to Germany, I mean that you shall be friends; for I am sure that you will love my Cousin Ernest." 
               "And he, Pansy?" 
                
               "Why, of course he will like you, Rudolph." 
               "And so it is settled that I am to come to Heidelberg, Pansy." 
               "Yes, truly-is it not? And Rika too?" 
               "That is to be settled by thee, Pansy-if thou shouldst say just one little word." 
               "Thou!" Bertha remembered the first time that Ernest had used that same word in speaking to her-blushing and trembling, she sat with down-cast eyes. 
               "Just say 'Come,'" continued Rudolph," not only as a friend to Ernest, but as more to thee; for if thou art not more than friend, Pansy, I come not to Germany." 
               "I ought not to listen to this language, Mr. Schweinitz," replied the young girl, with sudden reserve of manner, "without the knowledge of Aunt Margarethe." 
               "But if she should approve, what wouldst thou say, Pansy?" 
               "Come, Mr. Schweinitz, and never leave us more." 
               "Thou must never call me that again, Pansy." 
               "What then?" raising her deep blue eyes for a moment to his face. 
               "Rudolph, Pansy, Rudolph always. Dost thou not remember the night of the freshet, when I called thee liebling?" 
               A deep blush spread over the fair young face as she replied: 
                
               "It seems so strange that one like thee should stoop to one so lowly." 
               "And so thou callest it stooping, dost thou? and thou a crowned queen, Pansy!" 
               "I crowned, Rudolph! with what?" 
               "With goodness, Pansy. And so thou meanest that Ernest and I shall be friends, Pansy?" continued the young man, with an amused face; "perhaps he may decline the honor when he knows of our relations." 
               "Why, Rudolph! he is only a very dear brother to me." 
               "That may be so, but thou may'st be more to him, Pansy." 
               "I should be sorry-and yet I remember some things now, that I could not quite understand; but when will you come, Rudolph?" 
               "In about another year, Pansy." 
               "That is very long-twelve whole months." 
               "Seest thou the shadows on the hills, Pansy? It must be long past our tea-time." 
               Hurrying to the boat, they crossed the river, but how different were Bertha's emotions now! A gentle breeze stirred the waters of the Lehigh, which seemed to the young girl like a gale wafted straight from Paradise. 
               Bertha had stepped over the portals of woman's kingdom, and a sweet, silent seriousness is resting upon the young girl's features, as she took her seat at the tea-table. 
                
               Rika is a girl of quick discernment, and rightly interprets the abstracted manner that pervades Bertha's deportment, taking a seat far off from Rudolph, eating but little, so quiet, so bashful in her deportment toward the young man. 
               By lively chat and common topics, Rudolph sought to draw her out of herself, but it was all in vain, and Rika followed her to her room on retiring. 
               She threw her arms around Bertha's neck as soon as they were alone, saying: 
               "You need tell me nothing, Pansy. I have guessed all. You will be my own sweet sister." 
               "Not quite so fast, Rika," was the blushing reply. "We are not on the road to betrothal yet; that could not be without the knowledge and consent of my guardians." 
               "But you will be, Pansy; for they could never say nay to my brother Rudolph." 
               "I think so, too, Rika." 
               Next day Rudolph sought Aunt Margarethe, and told his story. 
               "I knew it, Mr. Schweinitz," said the lady; "and if I had not approved of the intimacy, would never have allowed the free intercourse which has been permitted; but Bertha must be left free until her year of probation at Berlin; that is her father's direction, and must be obeyed." 
               Then the lady told all of Bertha's history. Rudolph had not known, until then, how brilliant were her prospects, and replied, somewhat seriously: 
               "I wish that she were the Professor's daughter, instead of his wealthy neice." 
               "But you will come to Heidelberg, Rudolph, and see her guardians." 
               "Yes, when she has returned from Berlin." 
               And so the matter rested. 
               The day of vacation is drawing on, the girls all on tip-toe, expecting their friends. Some are leaving school, to return no more. They are a busy crowd, packing and chatting, and joking; some of the young creatures exchanging tokens of school girls' friendship, which often melts away amid new scenes in the busy world. 
               It is the last Sunday, and the Lord's Supper was celebrated. After service, Rudolph joined Bertha, and, placing, her arm within his own, he whispered: 
               "There is something very solemn in the thought of this last Supper, Pansy." 
               "It may not be the last, Rudolph." 
               "To us it is at present. It is for our Father to say if we shall ever sit together at another. Can you say, just as thou wilt, Father?" 
               "Canst thou, Rudolph?" was Bertha's low reply, with swimming eyes. 
               "By God's help, yes; but hope is strong in our young hearts, Pansy." 
               "I will hope, then, Rudolph," said Bertha, with one of her brightest smiles. 
                
               "And trust and wait too, mein liebling." 
               "I will try." 
               Next evening, there was a love-feast of the children-the colored lamps, the music, and the social reunion very sweet to Bertha, for she had never missed one of these occasions since her residence at Bethlehem. 
               The last farewells are spoken, the good Bishop laying his hand in blessing upon Bertha's head, and Rika promising again and again to come to Heidelberg. 
               Rudolph accompanied the two to New York, spending the last evening with them at the hotel. 
               Seeing them safely on board the vessel, Rudolph's last words were full of hope, and Bertha's blue eyes watched his figure standing on the pier, as long as she could perceive and answer the waving hat, which faded away at last. 
                
               A speedy passage brought them soon in sight of the dear vaterland, Bertha full of joy at the first glimpse of the blue hills. 
               It was July, when the harvest fields were golden with the ripe grain, when the summer sun shone brightly, and the fleecy clouds sailed on, all in their silent beauty. 
               Passing on rapidly, they are coming in sight of Heidelberg; the first sight of the glorious mountains, and the murmur of the lovely Neckar, filling Bertha's young heart with rapture. 
                
               "Listen! dear aunt;" said the young girl, "the birds are singing their welcome home-don't you smell the lovely flowers, and the sweet hay? Everything is so beautiful." 
               Just then the church bells pealed out a joyous summons. 
               "It is some Saint's day," said Bertha; "but I have been so long among the good Moravians, that I have forgotten what day it is." 
               But here is the House on the Heights, and Uncle Heinrich and Aunt Mina are out on the balcony; Bertha could wait no longer; springing out of the carriage and flying up the orchard, she is clasped in the arms of her second mother, both shedding tears of joy in this hour of reunion. 
               The two elder boys are away, but Fritz is among the crowd that again and again welcome Bertha to her old home. 
               "Stand up, mein dochter," said her aunt; "how you have grown! and so like your mother; are you glad to be with us all again?" 
               "Glad, Aunt Daisy! that is not the word; something so much more-so full of perfect content." 
               Seated between the two dear relatives, a hand of each clasped in her own, she looked upon each dear face, whispering: 
               "How I have waited and longed for this happy day." 
               Bertha had time now to look at Meta. Three years had made a great change in the little girl; much taller, but so thin and fragile, she looked as if a breath of wind would rend the lovely casket, and waft the spirit quite away; and that look in the young face-Bertha saw that it was the seal of citizenship, but not for this world. 
               Fraulein has heard the news, and is soon with the happy household. 
               "No more little Bertha," said the good lady, as she found that the new-comer towered at least half a head above her small figure; and then she smiled as she kissed the fair face, and said: 
               "But it is a child's face yet, on a woman's form." 
               Bertha glanced now at the empty chairs once occupied by the dear old saints, standing still in their accustomed place; her eyes filled with tears; Aunt Mina seeing the emotion, said: 
               "We do not weep for them now, Pansy-they are at home, and we are following; it will be a blessed meeting on the other side." 
               Next Sunday, Bertha sat in her usual place at church; Doctor Eichenbrodt preached one of his best sermons, and the young listener felt how good it was to be here once more among these dear familiar faces. 
               Conrad and Ernest have been in the army for nearly three years, but having obtained leave of absence, are soon at home; Conrad greeting the young girl with all the warmth of an affectionate brother; but Ernest, so timid, so reserved, that Bertha felt his greeting was almost cold. 
                
               But the next day, alone under the apple-tree, Bertha's free, warm manner thawed the ice, and the young man told her as of old, about his life in the army, how uncongenial it was, and about his longing for the cultivation of his talents. 
               Then she told about her life at Bethlehem; about Rudolph very little, but about Rika, her dear friend, so much. 
               "I wish that you knew her, Ernest; she is a splendid girl-so full of talent, so intelligent; but she has a will of her own, for all that." 
               "One of the strong-minded women, Pansy? thou knowest that I despise all such." 
               "Not at all, Ernest; she is womanly in every way; such a good daughter, and sister, and such a true, warm friend. I do believe that she would risk her life to save mine; but just let me read you one of Rika's poems, and see if there is not a woman's soul here." 
               Bringing out the scrap, she read, in a low, sweet voice, "The Moravian Requiem." 
               At the close, Ernest said: 
               "I must know that lady, Pansy." 
               "You will next year, for she is coming to Germany." 
               "And her brother, too?" 
               "Yes, Ernest, and you will like him, too." 
               "Never, Pansy." 
               And away flew the young poet, to walk off his agitation upon the banks of the Neckar. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               A STIR IN THE BEE HIVE. 
               BERTHA had not been long at home, ere she found that her uncle was often much depressed, and seeing him one day with arms folded, and head bowed down, pacing up and down the orchard, she called Aunt Mina to the door, asking what was the matter. 
               "He is troubled about the house, Bertha; Herr Von Brandt holds a mortgage on the property, and being much embarrassed, he is urging the payment, allowing only three months, and uncle has no means to meet the demand. We cannot bear the thought of leaving the old home, and yet we see nothing else in the future." 
               "It cannot be, dear aunt; we can all do something; let us talk about it to-night, when Uncle goes to the musical society." 
               Accordingly, we find the affectionate family assembled in the parlor, to listen to the story from the little mother. 
               "You see, mein kinder," she continued, "that we must either pay off the mortgage, or leave our dear old home." 
                
               "That cannot be," said Conrad, "we can all do something; I have a large picture which I will sell, if I can only get Madame von Ingolstadt to purchase, or to sell it." 
               "I will write to her at once," said Bertha. 
               "I have completed my volume of poetry," said Ernest; "I will go next week to Berlin in search of a publisher, and mein vater shall have it all." 
               "I have some money at interest," said Magda; "that shall be my part." 
               The mother looked very sad, for she knew that this little sum was from the sale of Magda's furniture, just the relics of her dream. 
               "I can sell poultry and eggs," said Gretchen; "for I know that Dick Wagener will take them every week; I heard him say the other day that he wanted a weekly supply." 
               "I have nothing at all, not the first kreutzer," said Fritz; "and so I can do nothing-yes, I can; I know where there is a good fishing-ground, and I can get Dick to take them every day, especially now in the holidays." 
               Bertha was now at liberty to draw upon her estate, and we find her devising liberal things for good Uncle Heinrich, resolving that she would furnish all the balance. 
               The good little mother was deeply affected at this exhibition of filial love, the fruit of her own labors. 
               "I have something to add," she said, "for father left me a legacy of one thousand thalers, and that will help very much; but we must get five thousand thalers in three months." 
               Every heart was full of the plan, and the more they pondered over the subject, the more practicable it appeared. 
               Bertha wrote at once to Aunt Hildegarde, who replied promptly, purchasing Conrad's picture at a handsome price, and ordering two more for some of her wealthy friends. 
               Ernest went next day to Berlin, and after two weeks' delay, obtained an answer from a publisher, but then he had to wait for the returns, and that might be for months; but it was the best that he could do. 
               Fritz made all his preparations for fishing, commenced the next day, and Gretchen counted over her poultry and eggs, finding that Dick would buy all that she could spare. A busy little body she is now; and Meta is quite as much interested, being carried out every day to feed the chickens. 
               They kept the secret from the Professor; all that he knew about was mother's legacy, but where was all the rest? 
               "We must economize, mein frau," said the anxious husband. 
               "We are all willing," was the prompt reply, "for we cannot leave this house." 
               There was now indeed a stir in the bee-hive, the queen bee cheering them all on by her own bright and happy spirit; but not like other queen bees, for she was the most active of all in the busy hive. 
               Bertha was just as hopeful as a young heart could be, for she trusted in the Lord for deliverance. 
               But there is another source of disquietude. There are some seven hundred students at the university, and although it is vacation, enough of these gay young fellows remain to keep Heidelberg alive with their rollicking. 
               Quarrels are very frequent among them; an unchecked penchant for duelling being common. Almost every day, battles are fought, either for the honor of the clique, or club, or to avenge some fancied grievance. These duels were fought with sharp swords at the Herchgasse-a small hotel near by-results scarcely ever fatal, but some pretty bad cuts often given and received. 
               It was no uncommon sight to meet every day on the length of the Hauptstrasse, a dozen of these heroes with noses and faces terribly slashed and plastered; a disgusting spectacle, which they will be sure to regret by-and-by. 
               On Monday morning, the town turned out to witness a grand procession of students en route to the Herchgasse, preceded by a full band; headed by the "Elder Brother," as he is called; a gross old man, whose business it is to sharpen the swords, and superintend the combats. 
               Each student carried a flambeau, six feet long, and this, with the curious costume-dress coat, long military boots, showy regalia, drawn swords, and gorgeously embroidered caps-made altogether a grotesque appearance, as they crossed the stone bridge which spans the Neckar. 
               The return of the victors was announced by the thunder of cannon directly opposite; and soon a large barge, brilliant with colored fires, and festooned with hundreds of Chinese lanterns, glided down the stream; the crimson fires illuminating the antique statues at the old castle, and the thousands assembled on the bridge, in a most weird and beautiful manner. 
               But there was one small boat that was not illuminated, for under the charge of two students was the body of one, the son of a rich and influential General, who fell by the hands of an unskillful swordsman. 
               In the boat, so brilliantly illuminated, there was one heavy heart, in the bosom of a very young man, who sat alone with his head bowed down, at the consciousness that his hand had sent a brother student into eternity. 
               The family at the Heights were thrown into an agony of grief on hearing that Fritz had been the wretched cause of this most terrible calamity. Watching his opportunity, in the excitement attendant upon the landing, and the thousands crowding around to hear the news, Fritz made his escape, and was nowhere to be found, although diligent search was made. 
                
               Gretchen said that "she was sure that she knew his place of concealment. She knew that he did not mean to kill the young man, but why do they allow these dreadful duels? What does our Fritz know about the use of the sword?" 
               In company with Conrad, taking Gruff with her, she set out for the old ruin, for she and Fritz had often pointed out good hiding-places in the old castle. 
               It was moonlight-its soft rays illumining the elaborate tracery and numberless statues, that fire and war had left of the grandeur of more than three hundred years ago. 
               Brave as a young lioness, Gretchen scoured the place in search of her brother. 
               Slowly they traveled through the Gothic chapel, then through the ruins of the noble banqueting-hall, then through the cloistered galleries, Gretchen calling every now and then her brother's name. 
               "I think I know where he is," she said, at length. "Come, Gruff, we must go in the dark. You stay here, Conrad, to warn me of danger. Some may be in search of Fritz beside ourselves." 
               "Here is a small lantern," said Conrad; "take that with you." 
               "I will take it with me, Conrad; but I must not light it until I get beyond the port-holes-the light might betray us." 
               Followed by Gruff, Gretchen mounted the old crazy steps up to the very top of one of the towers, where there was a small, dark room. Going down several steps, she was sure she smelt a pipe. 
               "Fritz! Fritz! I am here; answer, do-no one is with me but Gruff." 
               Then she heard a noise as of footsteps, but still no answer. 
               Perhaps it was not Fritz after all; what then in this dark, lonely place? 
               She was just about to fly, when a voice, coming nearer, said cautiously: 
               "Gretchen, is that you?" 
               "Thank heaven! you are here, Fritz." 
               In another minute, her brother, pale and haggard, made his appearance. 
               "Sit down, mein bruder. Here is some wine, mutter sent it, and some provision, too." 
               "Dear, blessed mutter! to think that I should have given her such trouble, Gretchen; but I did not mean to kill him. We were just having a tilt for the honor of our club, and I did not know much about fencing. My foot slipped, and my sword penetrated his neck, and severed the jugular vein." 
               After he had told all his sad story, and taken some refreshment, Gretchen said: 
               "Now, what is to be done? The General is greatly enraged, and vows that he will bring you to justice. You cannot show yourself about Heidelberg safely." 
               "I have been such a fool, Gretchen; and now, only think of it, instead of helping my father out of his troubles by my fishing, I am crushing his noble heart, and piling sorrow upon my blessed mutter." 
               "I will try to see Madame von Planen. They say that she is a good, benevolent woman. I know that I can do something; just stay quietly here; no one can find your hiding-place-now gute nacht, and God bless you, mein bruder Fritz." 
               "He cannot, Gretchen, if He is a just and holy God. He cannot bless a hand stained with blood." 
               "But suppose that you are really sorry, Fritz." 
               "I am, Gretchen. I would give all that I have to bring him back again." 
               "Now go in, bruder; but just let me see about the light." 
               There was just one port-hole in his place of concealment. 
               Gretchen left the lantern, and some matches, with a basket of provision, and promised to come every evening at the same time. 
               Going down to the foot of the tower, she covered the decayed opening with a stone, and heaping piles of brush-wood, she said: 
               "No one will ever find him there, Conrad." 
               Next day was the time appointed for the funeral. Great excitement prevailed, for the young man was a favorite at the university, and his father a wealthy baron, as well as a brave general. 
               The call was for vengeance upon poor Fritz, and Gretchen saw that this was no time to visit the afflicted mother. 
               We find her every evening, in company with Gruff, taking her supply of provisions-the poor fellow becoming very impatient of this state of confinement. 
               "If I can only make it all right with the family," said Gretchen, "father wants you to enter the army at once." 
               "That is just my plan, Gretchen; but it is too bad that I cannot help father about the mortgage." 
               After a week had elapsed, Gretchen summoned courage to make the dreaded visit; but brave as she was, her heart failed her when she found herself at the door of Madame Von Planen. Invited in, she took her seat in a small side-room, her heart beating violently in her poor little frame. 
               Fifteen minutes passed, twenty at last, when a messenger invited her to the lady's room. With shutters bowed, and the signs of recent bereavement all around, the sorrowing mother lay upon her couch. 
               "Come near, my child," said the faint voice, "you are a sufferer, too, in this late terrible woe?" 
               "Yes, Madame, that is true; and were it not that we are all enduring the agonies of suspense, I would never have intruded upon grief like yours." 
               "I think that I know your errand, Fraulein." 
               "I come to intercede for my miserable brother, Madame." 
                
               "I suppose so; but the General is very harsh, and austere, and insists that the law shall lay its hand upon some of these offenders." 
               "My brother did not seek your son's life, Madame-it was purely accidental." 
               "But they had quarreled the day before, and that makes it a dark, suspicious case; the General believes that he really sought poor Jasper's life." 
               "I cannot believe it, Madame; Fritz has such a warm, tender heart." 
               "I have no desire for revenge; his father feels so different; what good to my dead son could the punishment of his murderer give to me? it could not bring the dead to life; and I pity Madame Von Rosenmuller, and would not wring that mother's heart as mine has been, for worlds." 
               "Will you intercede with the General for poor Fritz?" 
               "I promise you, my child; call at this time tomorrow, and I think that I can persuade him. It would lighten my grief if I was sure that another mother's heart was spared." 
               "May heaven bless you! my dear, kind Madame; the General does not know my blessed mutter; if he did, he would say, heaven defend her from such dreadful grief!" 
               Gretchen turned away with a heart full of hope, and next day met the General himself at the same place. 
               "I have yielded to my wife's entreaties," said the proud, stern man; "but Fritz must keep away from Heidelberg. I cannot answer for my self-control if I should meet him; and there are many who feel the same." 
               Gretchen could not speak her thanks; she only pressed the hand extended, and with a face bathed in tears of grateful joy, took her leave. 
               Fritz was conveyed away from the town at midnight, and after bidding his family a sorrowful farewell, in company with Conrad, took his departure for the army. Assured that he was safe, the family again resume their labors for the mortgage. 
               The three months at length rolled round, and the evening before the business was to be completed, the family assembled in the parlor, full of their success. 
               In the time of his furlough, Conrad had completed one picture; having had on hand a large landscape, for which he had received the money, which he had placed in his mother's hand; Magda's stock was sold, mother's legacy paid in, quite a nice little sum added by Gretchen; and Fraulein, having heard of Fritz's disappointment, had hired the fisherman's son to bring Dick his daily supplies; and Bertha had made up the deficiency, Ernest having promised to refund his portion when the first returns from his poems should come. 
               The Professor came in among them with an unusually sad face, as he looked around upon his pleasant home, and said: 
                
               "I suppose that I must tell you, my children, that we are obliged to leave our home on the Heights." 
               He was quite surprised when, smiling, the good frau placed in his hands a check for five thousand thalers. 
               "How is this, mein good frau?" asked the Professor. 
               When she told the history of his children's efforts, the good man bowed his head and wept-not tears simply, but floods of happy, grateful joy. 
               "You have unmanned me, mein kinder," said the father; "it is all so unexpected. God is so good, and I so unworthy." 
               The good frau threw her arms around her husband's neck, and drawing his head down, kissed the dear, thin face that had become so worn and weary in the last few months. The door opened suddenly, and in tripped the good Fraulein, for she had known of the intended evening's surprise. 
               "I give you joy, good friends," said the little lady; "no one else can ever live in this House on the Heights but Herr von Rosenmuller and his family, for they were all born here; but I am sorry that the boys are not at home." 
               "Conrad and Ernest had to join their regiments," replied the mother; "and Fritz cannot be seen here for some time to come, I fear." 
               "Now give us something heart-stirring," said the little lady, seeing the Professor take his seat at the piano, to pour out his joy. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               WILLKOMMEN. 
               "A LETTER, Pansy!" said Aunt Mina, with a serious look upon her face. 
               "From Berlin?" was the swift question. 
               "Even so, mein liebling." 
               "I suppose that I must go, dear aunt, and I am ready; the sooner the better, for then my probation will quickly be over." 
               But there are letters from America, one from Rika, the other from Rudolph; the latter read in secret by Bertha, but not kept concealed from Aunt Mina. 
               "I hope that the young man is worthy of our Pansy," said the lady; "but we shall see when he comes to Germany. I like his letter, Bertha; it breathes such a high, pure nature." 
               "Please do not speak of it, Aunt Mina, excepting to Uncle Heinrich; for we are not betrothed, you know." 
               Alone with Magda, however, the young girl confided her secret to that dear cousin, and though her own earthly hopes were in the grave, yet her loving heart was deeply interested in Bertha's story. 
                
               A visit to good Doctor Eichenbrodt is among the last of Bertha's duties ere she leaves Heidelberg. His counsels are always wise and loving, for he is truly a father to his people. 
               "You will come back to us, my child," said the pastor, "and travel home to heaven with your own people." 
               "I have no other desire," was her quick reply; "for I often say to Aunt Mina, 'thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God.'" 
               "May the blessed Lord Jesus go with you, Bertha, and guide your footsteps in the way of peace." 
               The night before her departure, Aunt Mina called her niece into her own room, and opening a casket, displayed a large quantity of rich jewelry. 
               "These were your mother's, Pansy," said the lady; "she did not care very much for these trinkets, but when your parents were in Berlin, she wore them in compliment to your father, who was high in favor at court. It is proper that you should have them now, Pansy." 
               "I value them because they were my dear mother's, aunt; and although I shall wear them, I could be well content to stay here in Heidelberg, where there are no occasions for such display." 
               "These pearls are lovely, Bertha," said the lady, clasping a necklace around her delicate throat. 
               "Yes, I admire them most, they are so pure and soft." 
               "They suit you, Pansy. I remember when your dear mother wore them for the first time-on her wedding-night; and she was a lovely bride, indeed." 
               Fraulein is here, too, on this last evening, full of her kindly counsels and blessings on the young girl 
               "You will be the young baroness at Berlin, Bertha; but you will not forget us, that I know." 
               Uncle Heinrich accompanied the young traveler, who was most graciously received by Aunt Hildegarde. 
               "This is your proper home, Bertha," said her aunt, when they were alone together. "I know that your father desired it above all things." 
               "He did not command it, Aunt Hildegarde." 
               "Not exactly; but a father's wishes ought to be enough for a dutiful child. What would you be at Heidelberg? Nothing but the wife of some humble man, far beneath you in rank; but here you are the young Baroness of Koppel-equal to any at Berlin." 
               The young girl soon found herself in the gay circles of Berlin, much admired and sought after by people of the highest rank; but her heart was true to her early home, and the dear friends on the Heights of Heidelberg. 
               It is a gay winter for Bertha. Presented at court, her beauty makes quite a stir; rather too demonstrative, however, for her cousins, who were only ordinary in appearance, and envious of their young relation. 
                
               Invitations poured in upon the family, and her aunt, bent upon making a splendid match for her niece, took charge of her toilet. It would have been a strange sight if her dear Heidelberg friends had stepped in when Bertha was arrayed for these grand parties. 
               So different from the modest costume always chosen by herself; for even if she had supposed that she was at liberty to gratify her taste, her generous love for her cousins prevented her from indulging in anything that they could not follow, and so we find her always arrayed in the simple manner that was a matter of necessity in the Professor's family. 
               She is watching anxiously for the departure of the winter months, for early in the spring the family will visit her home on the Rhine. We find her standing at the window, overlooking the garden, on one of the bright spring days, hailing with innocent rapture the sweet song of the earliest birds. 
               Not many weeks roll by ere, leaving the gay city, they are all domesticated at the castle on the Rhine. 
               Built on one of the heights on the banks of the river, it has two faces-one the ancient building owned by the family for centuries, the other the modern residence built by the baron, where not only taste, but convenience, was consulted. 
               It was in this latter portion that Bertha had passed her infant years, and at once took possession of the rooms used by her departed mother. 
                
               The grounds back of this portion were beautifully laid out with arbors, winding paths, fine shrubbery and lovely flowers. In front, there was a terrace of velvet grass sloping down to the river bank, with statuary and larger plants adorning its slopes. 
               Here Bertha would sit for hours on one of the highest banks, gazing in silent rapture on the lovely scenery meeting her eye in every direction. 
               We often find her appealing to her cousins in her simple-hearted enjoyment of nature, asking if there was ever anything more lovely than this home on the Rhine-generally thrown back upon herself, however, by the reply: 
               "That it was nothing to compare to Berlin, in their opinion." 
               Gathering a gay circle around them, the family were never without visitors, who came to kill time, not to enjoy the beauties of nature. All sorts of gay sports were resorted to on land and water; Bertha feeling more at liberty in her own house to choose her pursuits. In the Sunday dancing she never joined, always attending service at a small church about five miles distant. 
               Aunt Hildegarde was very much scandalized by Bertha's folly, as she termed it, beginning to fear now that she could never mould her niece to her ideas. 
               "I wish that I had her chance," said Ursula. "She might take her place among the highest at court if she would; for Gerold von Meyer would give his eyes for her, and she looks down upon him as if he were unworthy of her notice." 
               "She always seems to me like one whose heart is somewhere else," replied Theresa. "I dare say, that she will marry some obscure person after all." 
               "Such a shame!" responded Ursula, "with those splendid jewels and her title and fortune." 
               "I think it is that which draws so many around her," replied the sister, "for I never could see that she was such a beauty." 
               "It will be better for us when she is gone," was the reply; "for no one cares for us when Bertha is about." 
               The summer passed swiftly; and returning once more to Berlin, Aunt Hildegarde saw in her niece's abounding spirits, the answer to her strong desire for a decision in her favor. 
               The young girl watched anxiously for the day, not allowing one to pass over the time of her probation. 
               We find her accordingly in her aunt's room, seeking an interview. 
               "Just one year, dear aunt," said the young girl, "since I came to Berlin." 
               "You are very exact, Bertha; there is no need for such speed." 
               "It is best to be truthful, Aunt Hildegarde, and I came to-night to declare my choice." 
                
               "I suppose to return to Heidelberg, and the common herd that dwell there." 
               "That is my decision; and as to a common herd, if talent and goodness distinguish a family, it is quite an uncommon household, I think." 
               "You are a blind goose, Bertha; throwing away such opportunities as you have here; and what for, I pray?" 
               "To dwell with those whom I have loved from infancy, in a family where I can serve my God and Saviour in simplicity and truth; but I thank you, aunt, for all your kindness, and am sorry that I have disappointed you." 
               "Take your own way, child; but you will regret it some day." 
               No delay, however, in her preparations for departure; for early in the next week, Bertha has taken leave of her stylish friends, leaving the glories of her coronet all at Berlin. 
               She is expected by the household, and all are busy preparing for the return of one of their own dear children; Gretchen watching from an early hour for the arrival. 
               "She is here!" called out the merry voice, as Bertha sprang out of the carriage, Gretchen seizing her hand, and hurrying her up the orchard to the dear old home. 
               The passage in the hall is dressed with evergreens; over the glass door is suspended a wreath of flowers interwoven with green leaves, in the centre of a gorgeous circle, "WILLKOMMEN," written in large letters 
               The parlor is festooned with rich autumn flowers and evergreen gracefully swinging from the window-frames; the floors are scrubbed clean, mats put down, a new and very handsome one in the centre of the room. 
               Over the piano is a pretty device, encircled by fine bouquets of roses and arbor-vit. 
               "Willkommen, mein liebling," written in large letters. 
               Lamps glittering with spangles of silver and embroidered net-work are scattered about, the ceiling hung with fancy-colored paper, beautifully cut; altogether a real fairy scene of beauty greeted Bertha's moistened eyes. 
               Bursts of laughter greet the comer; clapping of hands, and voices all round calling out, "Willkommen! mein liebling!" and the little mother throws herself upon Bertha's neck, saying: 
               "Ach, mein dochter! mein dochter! I knew that you would come." 
               Old Barbara is there too, shaking her honest red hands, and wiping her eyes with a corner of her apron. 
               In the midst of the tumult, the door opens, and in trips the good Fraulein; no joy complete without her bright, merry face. 
               "Willkommen, mein liebling," joined in the cheery voice; "where is your coronet, Bertha?" 
                
               "I left it all behind, Fraulein; but I hope to find a better one here." 
               The reunited family gather around the table, for Barbara has prepared one of her very best suppers; Gretchen and Meta each striving for a seat by Bertha's side. 
               Unpacking next day, we find the young girl wondering what is to be done with all her rich wardrobe; "for you know, Magda," she said, "that I have no use for such here; just give me my own corner, all my old habits and employments; so much better than that empty, frothy life at Berlin." 
               "I knew how it would be, mein liebling," said her aunt, kissing the fair cheek. 
               Running out to the kitchen, she accosted the old house-servant: 
               "Just let me make some crullers to-day, Barbara-it is so good to be at home again." 
               There was no smoky atmosphere in the kitchen to-day, and so we find Bertha up to her arm-pits in business, old Barbara waiting upon her, and two or three faces peeping in at the door. 
               "That is good! that is good!" said Gretchen; Magda's smile full of sweet content, and Uncle Heinrich calling out: 
               "They could not spoil you, Pansy." 
               In a day or two after her arrival, there came letters from America; Rika has lost her mother, and the good old Bishop is declining too; these tidings saddening the spirit of the young girl. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               SUNSHINE AND SHADOW. 
               CONRAD and Ernest have served out their time in the army, and are at home once more. Fritz has made choice of his profession, for he will be a soldier. His letters are encouraging to his friends, for there is quite a sober spirit pervading the lines, his late sad encounter having left a deep impression on his former volatile character. 
               Ernest can scarcely analyze his sentiments toward Bertha. No longer the sweet little Pansy of his childhood and youth, but a lovely girl now, in the blush of fair young womanhood. Ernest is shrinking in her presence, and yet he feels that it is sunshine; but it has a quieting effect upon the young man, scarcely realizing himself why it is so. 
               The rambles along the river bank and the visits to the old church are renewed, where they listen enraptured, as in childish days, to the solemn music. 
               We find them one autumn day under the old apple tree in the orchard, Ernest reading one of his poems, and Bertha a delighted listener. 
               "Dost thou remember when we sat here five years ago, Bertha?" 
                
               "Changes have come upon us since that day, Ernest." 
               "Not upon me, Bertha; for thou art sunshine yet to me." 
               The young girl dropped her eyes in painful embarrassment, as she listened to the pronoun so full of meaning. 
               They sat in silence for a few minutes, and then Ernest spoke again: 
               "Didst thou remember me, when far away in that distant land?" 
               "Every day, Ernest, I pictured all the household on the Heights; and I used to follow you, every one, and imagine what you were doing." 
               "Thou didst think of me, Pansy, with all the rest; I thought of thee alone." 
               "I had many things to occupy my thoughts at Bethlehem." 
               "And friends that took the place of thy Cousin Ernest." 
               "Not your place exactly; for Rika is a girl full of talent and highest traits of character, and her brother very much occupied in the duties of his sacred calling." 
               "Did he ever use the words thou and thine, when speaking to thee, Pansy?" bending at the same time a look full of deep and anxious feeling upon her blushing face. 
               "I cannot say what might pain you, Ernest; so do not question me; but I do wish that you knew Rika Schweinitz; she is such a gifted girl. She has just sent me one of her poems, Ernest, called German Vespers; shall I read it to you? It was suggested by what I have so often told her of our fatherland." Then she read the poem: 
                      
                        Hark! the bells in town and village, 
                        Echoing sweet from hill to hill, 
                        Ringing in the land of Luther, 
                        Evening vesper's music still. 
                     
                      
                        Ringing in the land of Luther, 
                        From each consecrated shrine, 
                        On the soft and quiet evening, 
                        Vespers on the River Rhine. 
                     
                      
                        From the tall cathedral spires, 
                        All along the River Rhine, 
                        Floating downward in the stillness, 
                        Calling to the German mind. 
                     
                      
                        Does it echo? are they coming? 
                        Luther's children! where are they? 
                        Listening with an ear poetic, 
                        As the soft chimes die away. 
                     
                      
                        Luther's lamp is dimly shining, 
                        Science reigns in learning's halls; 
                        Dark abstractions, misty visions, 
                        Close the ear to Jesus' calls. 
                     
                      
                        Straying from their ancient teacher, 
                        In the caverns dark and chill, 
                        'Mid the region transcendental, 
                        Prisoners of the human will. 
                     
                      
                        Not more dark the silent dungeons 
                        Of the ruined castles there, 
                        Than the intellect o'ershadowed 
                        By the spirits of the air; 
                     
                     
                      
                        Hovering o'er the land of Luther, 
                        Flapping with their dusky wings, 
                        Darkening the spirit's chambers 
                        With their vain imaginings. 
                     
                      
                        O, for Luther's stirring trumpet 
                        Waking up the German mind, 
                        From the visions philosophic, 
                        Mysticism dark and blind! 
                     
                      
                        Hearts there are in lovely Rhineland, 
                        Waiting for the coming day, 
                        Watching o'er the lofty hill-tops 
                        For the mists to roll away. 
                     
                      
                        Eyes uplifted, ears attentive, 
                        As the vespers float along, 
                        Listening, 'mid the mellow chimings, 
                        For redemption's holy song; 
                     
                      
                        For the grand and glorious anthem, 
                        Which throughout the land awoke, 
                        When the iron bonds of ages 
                        Luther's mighty spirit broke; 
                     
                      
                        Such as woke the loud hosannas, 
                        Such as through old Rhineland rolled, 
                        Flashing out in Luther's banners, 
                        "Only Jesus saves the soul." 
                     
                      
                        'Mid the heaving of the earthquake, 
                        Swallowing up dead mysteries, 
                        Shining out in glowing letters, 
                        "Only Jesus justifies." 
                     
                      
                        Faded then the mists of priest-craft, 
                        With this banner wide unfurled, 
                        O'er the dark abyss of ages 
                        Leaped a liberated world. 
                     
                      
                        But the time is speeding onward, 
                        When o'er every purple hill, 
                         
                        Down the softly gliding river, 
                        Murmured by each gentle rill, 
                     
                      
                        Pealing from the lofty hill-top. 
                        Echoed in the lowly dell, 
                        Sweet will chime the name of Jesus 
                        In the German vesper bell. 
                     
                      
                        Yes, throughout the land of Luther, 
                        As the echoes roll along, 
                        Jesus only, Jesus only, 
                        That shall be the German song. 
                     
                      
                        Not to beads and Pater Nosters 
                        Will the evening vesper call; 
                        Not to Aves and Hail Marys, 
                        Jesus will be all in all. 
                     
                      
                        Hark! I hear the vesper ringing; 
                        Swing the rope with joined hands, 
                        Change the chimes to Io Triumphe, 
                        Ring the bells throughout the land. 
                     
                      
                        Ring the bells with holy rapture, 
                        Ring the misty spirits out- 
                        And throughout the glorious Rhineland 
                        Raise aloud the joyous shout. 
                     
                      
                        Ring the bells from town to village, 
                        Echoing clear from hill to hill, 
                        O'er the purple vine-clad vineyards, 
                        Down the river, by the rill. 
                     
                      
                        Ring the bells! for Luther's Saviour 
                        Reigns throughout the fatherland, 
                        Glad ring in the holy Jesus, 
                        Clasped like brethren, hand in hand. 
                     
                      
                        When the sun his farewell glances 
                        Casts upon the vine-clad hill, 
                        And amid the quiet hamlets 
                        Labor's hum is hushed and still; 
                     
                     
                      
                        Then, when soft on evening breezes 
                        Vespers echo on the Rhine, 
                        They will breathe thy name, dear Jesus, 
                        Fading softly, only thine! 
                     
                  
                
               At its close, Ernest remarked: 
               'That is a pretty picture, Pansy; but only a fancy sketch." 
               "We think not, Ernest; that blessed day will come for Germany." 
               Letters from America have lately announced the departure of the good Bishop, and the strangers are hourly expected; the sunshine gleaming over Bertha's path, the shadows creeping over Ernest. He is out now, daily, in his solitary rambles on the banks of the Neckar. 
               Returning from one of these walks, he finds the two expected guests in the parlor; the whole room darkened by the shadow of Rudolph's imposing figure. 
               He is conscious of standing in the presence of a superior being, as he looks upon the tall and stately form of the young man, his countenance beaming with intelligence, Bertha shrinking away in a corner of the room. It did not take many days to discover Bertha's secret; and the certainty of the relations between the two, revealed to him the fact that he could not stay in the house with Bertha now, and is meditating flight; but on the evening before his departure, asks Bertha to walk with him a few minutes. Arm in arm they stroll in silence down to the river's bank, and seated there, Bertha is pained by the full disclosure of Ernest's misery. 
               "I have always loved thee, Pansy," said the youth, "but never knew how fondly until I saw another stealing thee away. I would not step between thee and Rudolph, but I cannot witness the happiness that I had hoped to share, and so I am going on a journey, where I shall hope for healing; mayest thou be happy, Bertha, is my only wish." 
               "You do not blame me, Ernest?" said the pitying voice. 
               "Blame thee! for what? One cannot chain the affections; and thou hast never professed for me more than a sister's love; after a while I will write to thee, Pansy; wilt thou answer?" 
               "I promise, Ernest, to write a sister's affectionate reply." 
               "And now-farewell!" pressing a fond kiss upon the fair forehead; "I shall be gone before thou art awake to-morrow, Pansy. I am leaving all my sunshine behind me; the shadows that have come lately between us are too dark: they would crush out the last vestige of peace if I should stay." 
               Little did Ernest dream that the sunshine of his life was there still, hereafter to rise again upon what now seemed a desolate path. 
               "Here is my Testament, Ernest; will you promise me to read it every day for my sake? It has words of comfort for every sorrow, dear cousin." 
                
               "I promise, Bertha," placing the little volume in his pocket. 
               They returned slowly to the house, and afterward it was remembered how silent and abstracted both appeared all that evening. In the morning, when it was found that Ernest had gone, there were many questions passing around among the family group; but none, save the little mother and Bertha, knew what had driven him so suddenly away from home. 
               Aunt Mina just said a few words when alone with Bertha. 
               "Ernest left a few lines for me, Pansy; I am sorry for the poor boy; but I do not blame you, mein liebling; it is better as it is, and he will think so by-and-by." 
               In a short time we find him on the Alps, seeking the house of Pastor Schwerin, the good man whose acquaintance they had made in their summer tour. 
               So wounded and lacerated was the poet's sensitive heart, that he is seeking out the scenes and associations that exercised such a soothing power over him at that time. Spending his days in solitude among the mountains, his strength is fading daily, until feverish and weary with mental conflict, he is prostrate on a bed of sickness in the good pastor's house. Happy for Ernest was it that his days of suffering were to be passed under such a roof of Christian love; the pastor's daughter, Malchen, a woman of forty, being his nurse. 
                
               The fever proved to be one of those nervous affections, so slow and exhausting in their progress, so tedious in recovery. 
               But it is broken at length, and Ernest seems almost childish in his weakness. When able to converse, we meet the good pastor by his side, encouraging free conversation by his own simple-hearted kindness. He has rightly judged the case, and looks upon Ernest as one having passed through deep mental conflicts and struggles. 
               "You are much better, my son;" said the good man; "the hand of a good heavenly Father has been over you, I trust." 
               Ernest did not reply at first, but at length said slowly: 
               "If there is a personal God, who has the issues of life in his hand, He has been very good to me." 
               "You do not doubt that fact, my son?" inquired the pastor. 
               "I have doubted every thing, my good friend; and seem like one tossed about on the troubled billows, with no hand to help; but when I see your quiet confidence in God, and your daughter Malchen's piety, I have felt as if I would give the world, to be just like you." 
               "I am sorry for you, from my very heart, for young as you are, you have had sore troubles; I gathered that in your wanderings. What refuge have you ever thought of for a tempted, troubled spirit?" 
                
               "I have looked upon the universe as God, my friend; all beings at last to be absorbed in him." 
               "That idea failed you in your hour of sorrow, my son?" 
               "Entirely, my good friend; I want something better on which to lean." 
               "You will find it in the Gospel of the Son of God, my son, and nowhere else-listen to his blessed words: 'Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'" 
               "Rest-rest-that is what I want," said Ernest, speaking from the depths of his heart. 
               "Shall I pray, my son?" 
               "Yes, and pray for me-a poor, wretched unbeliever-dark, sinful, helpless." 
               Just as a child pours out the longings of his heart to an earthly parent, so did the good pastor in simple faith bring this case of the possession of an evil spirit, to the great Physician; for was not the demon of unbelief one of the most direful of all spirits? The sufferer seemed soothed and comforted, for taking the hand of the good man within his own, he impressed upon its wrinkled surface a kiss of deep and fervent gratitude. From this day forward, with Ernest's daily supplies, Malchen left a crumb of the bread of life, for the soul of the invalid was hungry for that, although he knew it not. 
               It was so sweet now to lie on his little couch, the window looking out upon the glorious sunrise on the mountain tops, while from the parlor below came stealing up the stairs such sweetly soothing hymns, played by Malchen on the organ, and sang with such devotion by the family. There seemed to be now the most wonderful and unaccountable revolution going on within Ernest's heart-the dark whispers of unbelief each day fading, gliding off into the distance, as though they had never been; and the sweet images of the Christ-child coming back with the mother's voice that charmed him in his early days; hymn after hymn came almost upon the wings of seraphs, it seemed, stealing through the corridors of memory, and the Bible stories in the apple orchard, the sweet girlish talk of Bertha's innocent faith, all are present now; and almost unconsciously, we find Ernest framing his desires in the language of a child. He is obliged to sit out upon the little balcony adjoining his room, and the whole language of nature is full of healing. Malchen is often near him with her kind, motherly words; and one day, seated by his side, with his thin hand clasped in hers, he told his story. 
               She laid her hand upon his head at the close, and said so cheeringly: 
               "You are in the hands of the best teacher, Ernest; the Spirit of God is leading you; do you read the Testament, my son?" 
               "Daily, ever since I have been able to use my eyes-all things so different now." 
               A few more weeks, and Ernest is able to walk out daily; and although the winter is coming on, it is bracing to his languid frame. He is able to write now, and we find him penning his thoughts to Bertha. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              TO MY COUSIN PANSY:
                            
                           I know that thou wilt wonder at my long silence, but I have been very ill for many weeks; just on the borders of another world; a low, nervous fever prostrating me entirely; reducing me to the feebleness of a child, both physically and mentally. But I am rapidly improving now, and have a wondrous story to tell thee, Pansy; scarcely able to describe the misty road over which my spirit has traveled in those days of suffering. 
                           Such nights of conflict, such days of weariness, for it must have been the powers of darkness that hath had possession of my heart so long. 
                           The dark visions of unbelief troubled me sorely, taking advantage, I suppose, of my bodily weakness. Pastor Schwerin has been so good and fatherly. I told him of my struggles in the dark, and know that he has been praying for me ever since I came here. I would have scoffed at the idea once; but I can doubt no more of the wondrous love of our Father in heaven, who has borne with my proud unbelief so long. I can see now, Pansy, how He has followed me all the days of my life, placing an angel in the way when beset by spiritual foes; my blessed mother one, thou another, Pansy-and here, in this mountain home, good Malchen, the pastor's daughter, comes with her daily crumbs, just what my spirit needs. Are not these angels of mercy? 
                           I sit out on the balcony, and think of all the past, Pansy; and my mental sky is clearing. 
                           I look at the glorious mountains, and all the lovely scenery; and now I see God every where. The dark spirits, invoked at the university, are fading into the dim distance of the long past; for it seems as if many years have rolled between the sweet lessons of my early days and the present period, when all are returning with a power that exorcises those evil spirits. I can tell thee, Pansy, that the innocent words of thy childish faith, that I used to scorn in my proud days of youthful folly, are around me every day; coming now with such power amid the voices of nature, so sweet, so solemn. It is the early spring-time; and last Sunday, sitting out on the balcony, the sound of the church bells came through the valleys with such a hymn of peace, that I asked the pastor if I could not go to church with them. Bringing up the little wagon, we rode about two miles, and if ever a weary spirit knew what rest is, I found it there that day in the humble village church among the mountains; found it, Pansy, at the feet of Him, whom I had not only rejected, but despised once as an impostor-how can I write the guilt? But I know that He said on that blessed Sunday: "Thy sins are forgiven thee; go, sin no more." 
                           I am longing for home now; thou need'st not fear that I shall pain thee, Pansy, by any language other than brotherly affection; for I am learning to think of thee as belonging to Rudolph, and pray God to bless you both. Heaven knows what a shadow he cast upon my path once; but the sunshine is returning-the sunshine of faith, and hope, and love. 
                           I have been busy ever since my recovery, in studying the German writers of note; for the good pastor has a fine library. When I return, I think that I shall give the fruits of my labors to the public; perhaps in the form of lectures. I have written a poem, too, which I must read in the presence of the whole family; I think that you will understand it, Pansy. Give my warmest love to my blessed parents, not forgetting Conrad, dear old fellow! he must come to bring me home in April, Pansy; and Magda, and Gretchen, and Meta; how much dearer they all are than when I was wandering in the Black Forrest of Unbelief. Thus, from Bunyan's Interpreter's House, writes thy most affectionate cousin, 
                           
                              ERNEST
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               SEED THOUGHTS. 
               WE will return for awhile to the House on the Heights, and find Bertha and Fraulein ere the autumn has quite passed away, on a visit to the castle on the Rhine. 
               Not so lovely as in the spring and summer season, for the vineyards are despoiled of their luscious fruits and the vines are fading; the trees, too, are beginning to cast their leaves, and the wind is sighing the soft requiem of departing autumn. 
               It is not too cool, however, for the two to enjoy many a stroll in the day-time, around the grounds of the old estate. 
               At the foot of the hill, there is a settlement of lace weavers, their low buildings but one story above the ground-for in the manufacturing of Brussels lace, the weavers are obliged to work in damp rooms, the filmy threads being too delicate to weave in a dry atmosphere; the light, too, must all come from the top, directly down in a strong focus upon their work. 
               It is therefore a peculiarly trying and perplexing business, destructive to human health and eyesight, for few can bear this strain for many years on those delicate organs. 
               Fraulein and Bertha are walking through one of these gloomy factories, and standing by the side of Frau von Zandt, she stops to examine the tedious work. 
               Under the hands of the weaver is a pillow, with two hundred bobbins, for lace one inch wide, and Bertha is asking some kind, pitying questions. 
               "Is not that trying work, my good frau?" inquired the young lady. 
               "You may well say that, for I have a daughter but sixteen years old, who lost her eyesight here; and last year two mothers dropped away with diseases brought on in this damp place." 
               "I don't think that I can wear Brussels lace after this," said Bertha to her companion. 
               "That is said just like your blessed mother, Fraulein," said the woman. 
               "Did you know my mother?" inquired the young lady. 
               "No, Fraulein; she passed away before I was old enough to work, but my mother knew and loved the good lady; you will find many around Zeigfeldt that remember her; she was like a mother among the people, and you look just like her picture at the castle." 
               "Have you any church here, my good frau?" 
               "None nearer than five miles, and when Sunday comes we are all too tired to go that far, and all the rest that we have is in the afternoon, when we go to the garden on the hill back of the castle." 
               "You have no school either, I suppose, my good frau." 
               "None but what old Hans Diffendaffer can do in that way; he is too old to do anything else, and so he gathers the children twice a week, and teaches them to read, and write, and spell, and some little about counting; that is all." 
               "Yours is a dreary life, my good frau; it seems to me that the sunshine was made for all God's children, and you have none of it, only on Sunday." 
               "There are some who live a short way out of the settlement, who have their little homes and a plot of ground, out of which they bring a good deal; for the German people are not afraid of work; they sell to the others what they do not want themselves, and I think that they are better off than any of us." 
               "What do you live on, my good frau?" 
               "Brown bread, wasser soup and fried onions one week, baked beans the next, with a slice or two of bacon; but it is the sunshine that we want; there is poor little Frida Gross gone quite simple, and Durten Hertzog blind as a stone; and she is an orphan, poor thing." 
               "Who takes care of her?" inquired Bertha. 
               "We all help a little. She lives with Brasig Reuter, on his farm, and nurses the baby; that is all that she can do, poor thing. Brasig is poor, but he is a kind man, and gives her a home, and we women find her clothes among us." 
               "We must not forget these poor people, Fraulein," said Bertha, as opening her purse, she distributed its contents among the weavers in this low, dreary room. 
               Another day, we find the two on their way to Brasig Reuter's, whom they found busy at his work out of doors, Durten in the kitchen nursing the baby, and the good frau stirring round at her house-hold work. 
               "You are the good lady of the castle," said the woman, as dusting two chairs, she handed them to her visitors. 
               Bertha entered at once into the details of the struggles in this little family; but there was a spirit of cheerfulness here that was unknown among the lace-weavers. 
               Leaving behind her some substantial tokens of her interest, she returned home, for the shadows of evening were falling. 
               The evenings were a little cool now, and the two ladies sat around the fire in the sitting-room, discussing the events of the day. 
               Bertha's head was teeming with plans for these poor people-seed-thoughts as yet, but they were seeds with the germs of love almost ready to start into life. 
               "I have been thinking so much, Fraulein, these last two days," said the young lady; "we must do something for these people. I shall come here some day to live part of every year, and this is just the place where I can bestow the goods of my steward-ship. There are three hundred people here, in Zeigfeldt; no church, no school, no sunshine, Fraulein; just toil, privation, early blindness, broken-down health, and graves-just think of it, Fraulein-graves, for I went through the cemetery the other day, and there were so many little wooden slabs, no name over forty, and not a word of hope on any." 
               "It is even so, Bertha; I have been thinking just the same." 
               "I lay awake at night, Fraulein, thinking, thinking-but I must be doing; I have thought it all out; there is a hill at the end of the path that leads out to the little farms; there I will have my church. Brother Geiss has a son in Bethlehem, soon to be ordained-Frederic Geiss-just the man for this place; the Moravians are so simple-hearted and good, full of missionary zeal, and I must have one here. We will have an organ, and a bell that shall ring for the people far and near; the young people shall be taught to sing; I'll play the organ, and we'll lift the poor laborers at Zeigfeldt out of this darkness and poverty." 
               "There is your mother's blessed spirit, mein liebling," said the listener. 
               "Then we must have a school too, Fraulein. I will support it, Aunt Margarethe will come to take charge of it, and this shall be a bright, happy place yet, Fraulein. We'll call it Heart's Content, instead of Zeigfeldt." 
               "I'll make six quilts for the old women, every winter, and if you'll send the materials, I'll put up some of my medicines and nice things for the sick; and then I'll have a finger in this nest, too." 
               Every evening the matter was talked over, and the seed-thoughts were not sleeping now, for they were just ready to germinate. 
               "Let us do something to cheer up the poor people before we go, Fraulein," said the young lady, "suppose we have them up here on Sunday afternoon. I will read to them from the blessed Bible, and we'll sing some of our sweetest hymns, and then we'll have some of our nice crullers and finest grapes, and they shall have one happy day, to show what they shall have hereafter." 
               Zeigfeldt had not been so stirred up for many a long day as when the invitations were sent to all the lace-weavers, telling them never to mind their clothes; they would all be welcome. 
               Rudolph was in the midst of the happy company that assembled in the library to meet their young lady, for he had arrived the night before to take the ladies home. Women of all ages, and young girls and little children were there with their sad, pale faces, and threadbare, but decent clothing, looking around with wonder to find that any one so lifted above them should stoop so lovingly to their humanity. Bertha tried to hide behind Rudolph on this occasion, but he said so kindly: "No, mein liebling, it is thy meeting, thy people, not mine, Pansy. Just do as was intended-read thy Bible lessons, sing thy lovely hymns, and I will say something at the close, and end with a short prayer." 
               And so, with the utmost simplicity, in her own touching and impressive voice, she read the Master's blessed words to the children of toil, and then Rudolph joined his own fine voice with hers in singing their beautiful hymns, which Bertha played upon the organ. 
               Then, in language breathing the very fullness of Christian love, Rudolph addressed the company, telling them that "this was not the last occasion of such a gathering," "for," added he, "your young lady will spend hereafter part of her years at Zeigfeldt, and we will rejoice together in the new state of things that she hopes to bring." 
               Then, in fervent prayer, they were all commended to the care of the Good Shepherd, and the people felt that they had yet a Father in heaven who had sent to them such kind friends. 
               After the refreshments were served, they all joined in singing one of the national hymns, and as they passed out under the blessing of the benediction, many a poor laborer said to her neighbor: 
               "We are not quite forgotten by our God and Father." 
                
               "May the blessing of heaven rest upon our sweet young lady," said another. 
               "That must be the master that is to be," remarked the third. "Did you not see how he looked upon the sweet face at his side?" 
               "God bless them both!" was the response of many a weary heart. 
               After their departure, Bertha communicated her thoughts to Rudolph, who smiled at her enthusiasm. 
               "I see nothing in the way, Pansy. It will be a blessed work. 
               "Then we must have something else here beside lace-weaving. There is Herr Konigmacher, the seller of German toys; if we could persuade him to come here and manufacture them, it would be such a good thing." 
               "Good for whom, Pansy?" said the listener. 
               "Good for him, as well as them, I think. There is a great sale for them, and, if he has the means, this is the place; the market is open everywhere." 
               "I really believe that you have hit upon a bright thought, Pansy; we will see him when he returns." 
               The time for the betrothal of the two is drawing on, for it is thought better for all parties that it should take place in Ernest's absence; so in a few weeks the ceremony is performed in the parlor on the Heights, Bertha wearing her mother's pearls, the occasion somewhat sobered by the remembrance of the broken lily's shattered hopes, the absence of several of the family, and the fading health of the dear, crippled child, for Meta was daily losing strength. 
               "Kiss me, Bertha," said the child, as she drew the sweet face down to her chair. "I shall not be here when you are married, dear." 
               No time is lost in consulting Herr Konigmacher concerning Bertha's plans. He caught at the happy thought, and promised that in the early spring he would set about the work. 
               "You see, Fraulein, what comes of thinking," said Bertha. "They were only seed-thoughts at first, but they will soon be living fruit; and now I have another sowing, Fraulein, for some one else." 
               "What a busy brain it is!" said the good lady, "but always planning for some other." 
               Then Bertha told about Ernest's letter; how he had been thinking, too, in that quiet parsonage with the good pastor. 
               "Seed-thoughts, too," said Bertha. "I always said that Ernest would make his mark in the world. He will deliver these lectures on the German writers, taking a Christian view of them. He has been such an open sceptic, that they will produce a great impression among the students, and open the way, I think, for Ernest's worldly prosperity, too-then there is Rika." 
               "Stop! stop! little dreamer," said Fraulein, laying her hand upon Bertha's mouth, "that is a little too fast." 
               "What, Fraulein? I said nothing." 
                
               "But I guess what you think." 
               "I know what I wish. Rika is such a strong, good woman; so practical, as well as poetical; and Ernest is so dreamy by nature, she would be such a balance wheel upon his flights; her sense of duty so strong, that she could drop at once all her literary efforts if the case demands it, and she would be such a comfort, such a help to Ernest; for Rika has a correct, fine taste and high cultivation." 
               "Then what becomes of constancy, Bertha? For I have guessed the reasons that took Ernest so suddenly away." 
               "I do not advocate constancy without hope, Fraulein; such things must die a natural death with nothing to feed them. I see signs of such a change coming over Ernest in his late letter." 
               "You have said nothing upon the subject to either, I trust, Bertha." 
               "Not a word-I only name my desire to you; but it is not our part to meddle in such affairs. God will direct them." 
               "Seed-thoughts, mein liebling; may they bring forth good fruit." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               HEALING. 
               CONRAD has been occupied all winter in the study of the art which he has chosen, corresponding with Ernest during his absence. It is with real joy that the brother receives his summons to bring the invalid home, and loses no time in setting off on his journey. Early in the spring, we find the two entering the orchard, so filled now with the harbingers of spring, for birds are singing on every tree, and the fresh green of that charming season is everywhere seen. 
               "Do you smell the sweet apple blossoms, Conrad?" said his brother; "I never inhale their fragrance now without thinking of this dear home." 
               They are on the piazza, and the first to greet the travelers was Bertha, coming forward with both hands extended, the smile of welcome beaming on every expressive feature. 
               "We have wanted you so often, Ernest," said his cousin, "and now you look so much better than I expected." 
               "Because there is a new life dawning upon me, Pansy." 
                
               He is soon surrounded by the family circle; every thing is bright and happy-all but sweet, fragile Meta, whose skin is so transparent that one could almost fear, that at any moment the ripening spirit would burst the slight fetters of the flesh and flee away. 
               "I am so glad that you have come, Ernest," said the child, "for I am called, mein bruder; but I am not afraid to go where Jesus led the way." 
               Ernest took the little hand within his own; it was burning with wasting fever, and the short breath seemed so irregular, so labored-he felt that the child's words were all true. 
               Rudolph and Rika are at their aunt's, not far out of Heidelberg, the latter frequently spending days at a time at the House on the Heights. She will come to-morrow, and Bertha is full of her innocent thoughts. There are no secrets between the two friends, and Rika is deeply interested in the young poet. 
               She understands his character, admires his talents, and sympathizes with him in his late disappointment. There is some embarrassment on her first meeting with Ernest, and so the greeting is reserved and distant. 
               But there are so many subjects of mutual interest, that unconsciously, almost, they were drawn to each other; Rudolph and Bertha so engrossed with their own affairs, that Ernest often sought Rika's appreciating taste in listening to, and even sometimes times criticizing, his productions, which she did quite unsparingly, much to the young poet's amusement. 
               "You are pretty sharp upon me, Fraulein Rika," he would say, with a laughing face. 
               "That is because I so admire your poems, that I want them perfect, and am out of patience when there is the least falling away; you must write that last page over again." 
               "Why, what is the matter with it?" 
               "These lines are not musical; don't you see?" 
               And Rika read emphatically the faulty verse. 
               "I believe that you are right, and I know that you are kind, if you are so sharp." 
               "I am glad that you understand me so well, my good friend." 
               "You are so different from Bertha, and yet-" 
               Ernest walked away to alter the lines. 
               Next day we find him coming with his altered poem. 
               Rika read it. 
               "That is worse than ever; I would cut off that whole page if I were you." 
               Ernest was really nettled. 
               "There! I have destroyed the whole!" tearing it into fragments, "will that suit you?" 
               Rika elevated herself, looking more stately than ever. 
               "I am surprised-that was so boyish, so petulant." 
                
               Rika walked away, and Ernest was thoroughly out of humor; he could not bear Rika's contempt, but he was most out of humor with himself. They were estranged all day, and next morning Rika went back to her aunt's. 
               Bertha knew nothing of the disagreement, but she saw that something was amiss with Ernest, and calling him into the parlor, she produced one of her uncle's new compositions. The harmony of sweet sounds dissipated the gloom, and after supper he strolled out by himself, to walk off the remembrance of the discomfort, if possible. It was a long walk, and we find him at the end, entering the house of Rika's sojourn. 
               She was in the front garden stooping over some plants, but hearing a footstep, raised her head, surprised to see Ernest, with a hesitating manner, standing at the gate. 
               "Is that really my lord Ernest Von Rosenmuller?" 
               "No more of that, Rika, if you please." 
               It was the first time that he had thus familiarly accosted her. 
               "I come to ask your pardon," he continued, "for I was guilty of abominable rudeness, my self-conceit at the bottom of the whole." 
               "That is truly noble, Ernest," said the lady, her face aglow with pleasure, and extending her hand to the young poet; "we are friends again, and friends always, I hope; but you must bear with my bluntness ness; I mean well; I would not hurt you for the world-now tell me, have you really destroyed that poem?" 
               "I have the rough manuscript; but what can I do with it? The inspiration is gone; it was commenced on the mountains, and I call it the 'White Fawn.'" 
               "Try, Ernest, just to show that you are not really offended." 
               "Then I will, for you are a true friend, I know." 
               From that day forward, the two were seldom a whole day apart, Rika moderating her criticisms, remembering the sensitive nature of the young poet, and he looking up to her, as one of the angel messengers, that as a poet he so often talked about. 
               We even find him at length confiding his heart-history to Rika, telling her at the close of his story, that Bertha was too angelic for him; she was better matched now, and he was growing contented. 
               When a man can talk thus freely of a dead affection, he is very far on the road to recovery, and this Rika felt. 
               During this season, there were many sorts of lectures at Heidelberg, and Ernest, fond of novelties, is led to attend them, Rika always deciding not to be of the party. 
               Socialism, spiritualism, and other German isms, attracted his attention, and led his mind off from the simplicity that was in Christ, and we find the dreamy young poet losing the peaceful rest of his early steps in the divine life. 
               This too, he brings to Rika, whose strong mind and clear intellect see the fallacy of these weak things at once; so deeply grounded in the truths of the Bible, that from that strong citadel she always had her darts ready to ward off the attacks of these sly invaders. 
               "What should I do without your clear, strong faith, Rika?" said the young man. 
               "You must remember, Ernest, that from the earliest period of my life I have been guided, and controlled too, by a wise and learned father, and an equally strong, well-balanced brother; then, at a very early age, I became a Christian; and so you see the Lord upholds me by the Almighty power of His Holy Spirit." 
               "God is so good to me, Rika; how can I ever doubt His purposes of love towards such an erring one as I? He has encompassed me about with so many good angels, hedging up my way so many times, crossing my path, and driving me back as it were; and now comes this good, strong angel, in the form of Rika Schweinitz, to stand in the way of these deceivers again." 
               "Have you attended Rudolph's lectures, Ernest?" asked the lady. 
               "I have been to several, but not to all," was the reply. 
               "Now I bespeak your company for the rest of the course," said the lady; "they will be invaluable in your state of mind." 
               "I promise, Rika, and thank you from the bottom of my heart for your patient kindness." 
               Rika smiled. 
               "Not very patient, Ernest, at all times; for instance, the clipping of the 'White Fawn.'" 
               "Perhaps it is better just as it is." 
               Ernest walked home that evening, pondering over Rika's words, and thanking God for another angel in his way. 
               The two attended the remainder of the course, Ernest's intellect fortified by the strong arguments brought forward by Rudolph's clear and logical mind. 
               The professors find that they have a powerful antagonist in this young Moravian minister; for crowds of the students, attracted by the power and beauty of his eloquence, attend these lectures, the professors themselves frequently dropping in. 
               The seat of opposition is generally found in the heart of man; when that surrenders, reason easily yields to the power of conviction. 
               Bertha has communicated her plans to Aunt Margarethe and Frederic Geiss, and that is all settled, for they are coming in the early spring. 
               There are many signs now at Heidelberg of the great German holiday, for the shop windows are glittering with toys and bright colors, with spangles and Christmas angels; the streets, too, are alive with silver sleigh-bells, and the river with merry skaters. 
               The family on the Heights are all at their mysterious work, winking and running, whispering and hiding in all sorts of queer places. 
               Alone with Aunt Mina, we find Bertha thinking of the absent one. 
               "You remember, dear Aunt, our legend of the Christ-child; will he find us all right, when he stops here on Christmas eve?" 
               The little mother turned her face full upon Bertha, as she replied: 
               "I fear not, Pansy; you are thinking of Thekla, and so was I; she is our child still, and sometimes I think that uncle is too hard upon her. I have never seen her little boy; he is nearly two years old now, our first grandchild-and he is named Heinrich, too." 
               "I have heard good news of Berthold, Aunt; Fraulein knows some one at Munich, who was here a few days ago, and says that Berthold is good to Thekla, and much more sober and industrious than formerly. Shall I talk to Uncle Heinrich about it, aunt? for I cannot be happy unless Thekla is here." 
               Watching her opportunity, she brought the matter before the father, told all her good news, and throwing her arm around his neck, she said: 
               "You will say yes for my sake, uncle; but most for Christ's sake. 'Forgive if ye have aught against any, that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.' 'But, if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses.' Christ's blessed words, dear uncle." 
               "These are weighty words, Bertha, and I cannot deny you; send for them all to come." 
               No time was lost in sending the summons, for the little mother herself wrote the letter. A penitent heart-warm reply soon followed, and all busied themselves in preparing a table especially for Thekla. 
               Fritz, too, has leave of absence, and the family are all on the mount of expectation at the House on the Heights. 
               It is the day before Christmas, and Bertha is almost as merry as Gretchen, running out to the front door, to spy the first glimpse of Thekla and her family. 
               They are here, and Bertha is running up the orchard with Heinrich in her arms, scarcely able to see the little fellow yet, he is so wrapped up. 
               A heart-warm welcome awaits Thekla, who throws herself upon her mother's bosom, unable to speak her joy. 
               "Mein dochter! mein dochter!" sobbed the mother. 
               "Mein mutter! forgive me. I am not the same Thekla now." 
               A glance at the pale, worn face told a tale of suffering and sorrow, for, although she was beautiful ful still, the fresh bloom of her early youth had faded. 
               But her little boy was the image of his mother, and, handed from one to the other, was nearly smothered with kisses. 
               The Professor was not behind the others in the warmth of his welcome to his penitent child, and, taking Berthold's hand, he said seriously: 
               "I have heard a good account of you, Berthold, I hope that it is all true." 
               "I am trying to be a better man; ask Thekla;" 
               "Berthold is good to me, mein vater, and so fond of little Heinrich. We live in a small house of our own, but we are very happy. I can work now, and old Barbara would open her eyes to see what I can do in the kitchen; she taught me many a good lesson, which I did not heed much then." 
               The Christmas bells rang out their joyous peals, and, after supper, Bertha led Thekla out to the piazza, and under the winter stars they talked of the Christ-child and His mission. 
               "You see, Thekla, that He can bless us all to-night. I could not bear, cousin, that you should be absent." 
               "My return is due to you, Pansy; God bless you, my cousin; for these weary months have been so sad." 
               Another is expected, and it was not many minutes ere Fritz made his appearance, throwing up his military cap, as he opened the gate. 
               "A merry Christmas, girls!" said the young man, "and you, too, Thekla; this is more than I hoped for, sister." 
               "We are all one again," was the reply. 
               "That suits me; I hate family jars." 
               "And so do I," answered Thekla, "but I made the first breach by my folly." 
               Fritz too, had changed; the merry sparkle of his eye softened and subdued, for many a sad hour of repentance had chastened the overflowing animal spirits that once filled the house with glees and snatches, with merry songs and jokes. 
               None the less beloved or pleasant was the young man; and the father's heart was cheered by the letter which he brought from his commanding officer, giving a flattering account of the young soldier. 
               But Magda has rung her little bell, and the mysterious room is opened; bright and beautiful as loving hands could make it, with its winter-greens, its spangles, its glowing colored candles, and its pretty gifts; none forgotten on that joyous night. But there is a side-table all alone, and over it the inscription, "For this my daughter was dead and is alive again, was lost and is found." It needed no further words to tell that this was Thekla's table. 
               Every hand had contributed its part, and the table of the prodigal, by general consent, was richer by far than the others. Berthold, Thekla, and little Heinrich, all remembered; the child's toys, and useful articles of dress most abundant-even old Barbara had bought a handsome meerschaum for Berthold, a Christmas cake for Thekla, and a dancing Jack for Heinrich. 
               To crown the joy, the party assembled in the parlor, where the Professor's new piece of "Welcome Home," was sung by the whole united family, Fraulein stepping in to partake of the jubilee, for she had heard the news. 
               "Willkommen, mein kind," said the little lady, seizing Thekla's hand, "this is so gute, so gute." 
               "You see, Fraulein, that they have killed for me the fatted calf, and put the best robe on me, and a gold ring upon my finger;" holding up the jeweled finger. 
               "That is like the Vater's love, Thekla; has the wanderer come back to His bosom?" 
               "My face is turned that way, Fraulein." 
               "Then He is ready to fall on thy neck, and kiss thee, Thekla." 
               Little Meta was seated near her sister. 
               "I am so glad that you are with us, sister," said the child, "for this is my last Christmas here; I shall keep the next in heaven." 
               Thekla pressed a kiss upon the thin, pale hand, for she felt that it was true. 
               It was a happy week for Thekla; but Berthold was obliged to return to Munich, and the family glide into their usual quiet ways; Fritz, too, had joined his regiment. 
               Ernest's poem is finished at last; altered and polished, until it suits even Rika's critical taste. 
                
               "It lacks nothing," said the lady, "it is your own story, Ernest, is it not?" 
               "You are right, Rika." 
               The winter passed rapidly, little Meta fading day by day, and with the advent of the first snow-drop, passing happily away to the land of the immortals. 
               Conrad and Ernest are standing with their mother around the remains of the sweet child, the flowers scattered around her, so emblematic of her beautiful life and early death. 
               "I shall go to her, but she shall not return to me," said the mother. 
               "It is a blessed hope, dear mother," said Ernest; "what should we be without it? and yet I lived so long in the dreary fogs of unbelief." 
               Laid to rest in God's Acre, another link is united to the chain which draws the hearts of the family heavenward. 
               The brothers are alone, talking of the spirits that have vanished from their midst. 
               "You must own, Conrad, that this blessed hope is so much better than the cold unbelief at the university-those students' funerals so heathenish, and the dull forgetfulness of the system which consigns us all to dark oblivion so monstrous." 
               "I own it all, Ernest; there must be something real and divine in the calm, trusting faith of the dear old saints, and the confidence of this little child, all crossing the swelling tide into an unknown world, so fearlessly; all trusting so entirely in Christ." 
                
               "Our Father chooses wondrous ways to bring us home to his bosom," said Ernest; "Bertha's simple words remembered so many years; such innocent, childish hints. I used to mock them, Conrad; but they were pointed arrows, and penetrated the steel armor of unbelief at last, not one word lost." 
               "I have been comparing, too, Ernest; just take our dear mutter, the blessed ones that have left us, the good Fraulein, Doctor Eichenbrodt, Bertha, and Magda, with that circle at the university, and see if we can answer the queries of our hearts in any way but one." 
               "That sickness on the mountains, Conrad, and the dear old pastor, were such blessings; for the mists vanished there, and then since I have returned, Rika Schweinitz has been such a strong, good friend; she has a clear, sharp intellect, Conrad; not at all like Bertha, but she suits me." So the healing goes on steadily, but surely in Ernest's heart; but not without Rika. 
               He is now a Professor of Belles Lettres at the university, and never passes by an opportunity to drop useful hints to the students, as occasion offers; the Christian writers always lauded, and preferred by the young professor. 
               The sceptics soon found that Ernest had passed out of the cold caverns of unbelief, and dwelt now on the hill-top of faith; the Sun of righteousness lighting it with the bright beams of Christian hope. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               THE WHITE FAWN. 
               GATHERED in the family parlor, Ernest is reading his last poem to the household; Fraulein having been invited, of course, Rudolph and Rika among the group, the former in his own impressive manner reading the poem: 
                      
                        In Rhineland stood a palace famed, 
                        Its ruined towers yet are seen; 
                        And bordered by green, shady banks, 
                        A placid river flowed between. 
                     
                      
                        The mountains towered toward the clouds, 
                        The purple vineyards crowned the hills, 
                        And sweet the evening vespers chimed 
                        Over the landscape deeply still. 
                     
                      
                        And in that quiet valley there, 
                        A mother dwelt with children four; 
                        How happy she, when round her knee 
                        They sported gay before the door. 
                     
                      
                        "How was it?" all the neighbors asked, 
                        "The boys are growing very tall." 
                        They did not see the silken cord, 
                        A mystic cord, guiding them all. 
                     
                      
                        On Sunday morning, when the bell 
                        Rung on the air so sweet, so clear, 
                        All dressed so neat, they went to church, 
                        The mother and her children dear. 
                     
                     
                      
                        And oft, on Sunday afternoon, 
                        Beneath the shadow of a tree, 
                        Where apple-blossoms round them fell, 
                        They gathered round the mother's knee. 
                     
                      
                        Hermann and Jasper by her side, 
                        Christine and Beta at her feet, 
                        And on her lap the Holy Book, 
                        With stories grave, and pictures sweet. 
                     
                      
                        The book so beautiful they loved, 
                        And oft around the winter fire, 
                        They conned its stories o'er and o'er, 
                        And of its pictures never tired. 
                     
                      
                        The story of the Christ-child most 
                        They loved on Christmas-eve to hear; 
                        When the green tree, with brilliant light, 
                        Was dressed with toys from year to year. 
                     
                      
                        The neighbors wondered how it was 
                        The children seemed so pure and good; 
                        They did not see the silken cord, 
                        That led them gently where she would. 
                     
                      
                        The father was a learned man, 
                        The boys were growing very fast; 
                        "The fire-side school may do awhile, 
                        But childish days are well-nigh past." 
                     
                      
                        So said the father-and the wife 
                        Knew that her boys must leave her side; 
                        Tighter she drew the silken cord, 
                        The starting tears she could not hide. 
                     
                      
                        Up to the hall, so high, so grand, 
                        Among professors deeply learned, 
                        Where lights of every dazzling hue 
                        Falsely in every window burned. 
                     
                      
                        The boys are struck when first they see 
                        The glittering lights upon the wall, 
                         
                        Crimson and yellow, green and blue, 
                        Bewildering round their footsteps fall. 
                     
                      
                        The learned professors' lofty mien, 
                        The swell of pompous, misty words, 
                        The teachings of that ancient hall, 
                        Hermann and Jasper ne'er had heard. 
                     
                      
                        The boys around spoke scoffing words, 
                        Spoke lightly of the Holy Book; 
                        Conceit, and pride, and unbelief, 
                        Were seen in every haughty look. 
                     
                      
                        They scorned the little silken cord, 
                        Called it a childish, paltry toy; 
                        Said "It might do for little chits, 
                        Not for a proud and manly boy." 
                     
                      
                        Hermann and Jasper learned to hide 
                        The silken cord-till one sad day, 
                        They cut the bond, and springing up, 
                        They now were free to have their way. 
                     
                      
                        Faded the pictures of the Book, 
                        Faded the lessons at the knee, 
                        The evening prayers were all forgot, 
                        The hours beneath the apple-tree. 
                     
                      
                        On Sunday morning, still the bell 
                        Rang on the air so sweet, so clear, 
                        But only three to church now went- 
                        Mutter, Christine, and Beta dear. 
                     
                      
                        In her low chamber, all alone, 
                        The mother bent in humble prayer; 
                        'Twas hard to see the silken cord 
                        Cast quite aside with haughty air. 
                     
                      
                        One morning, sitting at her wheel, 
                        Christine and Beta by her side, 
                        There came a gentle, timid knock, 
                        And then the door was opened wide. 
                     
                     
                      
                        A fair young girl with smiling face, 
                        Leading a fawn so purely white, 
                        Entered, and round the little room 
                        There seemed a soft and silvery light. 
                     
                      
                        "You're troubled," said the maiden fair, 
                        "I'll leave this fawn," and its soft eyes 
                        Looked up with such a loving glance, 
                        And yet so wonderfully wise. 
                     
                      
                        "'Tis a strange creature," said the girl, 
                        "I could some wondrous stories tell 
                        Of all its gentle ministry- 
                        The boys will learn to love it well. 
                     
                      
                        "It may unite the silken cord, 
                        And win the wanderers back, perhaps." 
                        She vanished-and the gentle fawn 
                        Laid her fair head on Beta's lap. 
                     
                      
                        The day it came, the sun shone out, 
                        The clouds were blue, the heavens were bright, 
                        And when the evening shadows fell, 
                        The stars gave out their sparkling light. 
                     
                      
                        The sweet church bells rang out a chime, 
                        For 't was some blessed holy day, 
                        And when the three to worship went, 
                        The white fawn followed all the way. 
                     
                      
                        Alba, its name-the boys were charmed 
                        To have a pet so fair, so good; 
                        They saw that it was safely housed, 
                        Gave it, each day, its drink and food. 
                     
                      
                        It learned to love the college boys, 
                        And close beside them all the day 
                        It followed to the college halls, 
                        And at the door so watchful lay. 
                     
                      
                        The lectures o'er, straight home again, 
                        Close by the brothers' side it walked, 
                         
                        Its soft dark eyes bent on the boys, 
                        It seemed as if they almost talked. 
                     
                      
                        They seemed to be like human eyes, 
                        Watching around them night and day; 
                        Sleeping beside their bed all night, 
                        Warding all dangers far away. 
                     
                      
                        When evil threatened, Alba knew, 
                        And butted with each little horn; 
                        They'd learned to heed the gentle tap, 
                        When thus reminded by the fawn. 
                     
                      
                        It often tried to lead them out 
                        To the green shadows of a wood; 
                        But all in vain-they would not go, 
                        The boys were in a willful mood. 
                     
                      
                        At length, when all its motions failed 
                        Down on its little knees it bent, 
                        And turning up those human eyes 
                        The boys subdued-both with it went. 
                     
                      
                        The gentle fawn then trotted on 
                        Through the deep forest, as a guide; 
                        At length the boys, with anxious look, 
                        A pretty little temple spied. 
                     
                      
                        And in the midst, a fountain clear 
                        Of bubbling water springing up, 
                        And by its side a maiden fair- 
                        In her small hand a silver cup. 
                     
                      
                        "This is the fount of life, young men," 
                        The maiden said, with earnest look; 
                        "Just take this silver cup, and drink 
                        A quaff from out this crystal brook. 
                     
                      
                        "'T will clear your sight, 't will warm your heart, 
                        'T will give to you eternal youth; 
                        Renewed by this, error will fly, 
                        And you will learn to know the truth." 
                     
                     
                      
                        "'Tis what we want," said Hermann then; 
                        "We are not happy, cannot see 
                        The way to heaven; our path is dark; 
                        We've wandered long and hopelessly." 
                     
                      
                        "You're blinded by the glittering lights 
                        Hung out upon the college walls; 
                        Just drink of this, the cobwebs then 
                        Will from your vision quickly fall." 
                     
                      
                        They both obeyed, and then the fawn 
                        Laid its sweet head upon their knees, 
                        And from its deep and earnest eyes 
                        Again the human look they see. 
                     
                      
                        Said Jasper to the maiden fair: 
                        "Did you not bring this gentle fawn 
                        Once to our house, some time ago, 
                        On a bright, smiling summer morn?" 
                     
                      
                        "'T was I indeed-has she not been 
                        A comfort dear, a blessed guide? 
                        I knew what Alba was, young men, 
                        When first I led her to your side." 
                     
                      
                        "Is she no more than what she seems?" 
                        Said Hermann; "for her lovely eyes 
                        Seem just like the remembered face 
                        Of one who's passed into the skies." 
                     
                      
                        And now they travel back again, 
                        By the White Fawn so gently led; 
                        And near their home, the perfume sweet 
                        Of the old tree again is shed. 
                     
                      
                        The apple-blossoms smelled so sweet, 
                        Just as they did in days gone by; 
                        And the sweet Bible stories came 
                        So fresh again to memory's eye. 
                     
                      
                        And the dear childish hymns, once more, 
                        Around the orchard rose and fell; 
                         
                        And Jesus' name, and Jesus' praise, 
                        Like angel music seemed to swell. 
                     
                      
                        Faded the German students' song, 
                        The cradle-hymn rose sweet and strong; 
                        The vesper bell was ringing now, 
                        O'er hill and dale its evening song. 
                     
                      
                        The white fawn led them to the feet 
                        Of the dear mother once again, 
                        And from her body, pure and white, 
                        Unwound the silken mystic chain. 
                     
                      
                        And then she threw it round the two, 
                        And in the mother's hands she laid 
                        One silken end-they kissed the bond, 
                        And told the story of the maid. 
                     
                      
                        The church bells ring on Sunday morn, 
                        The mother walks no more alone; 
                        The Holy Book, so beautiful, 
                        In the boys' eyes has dearer grown. 
                     
                      
                        Under the apple-trees' green shade 
                        They sit again on Sunday eve; 
                        A deeper joy is in their eyes, 
                        Hermann and Jasper both believe 
                     
                      
                        The holy truths of youthful days; 
                        The college lights dazzle no more; 
                        For in the fountain pure and deep, 
                        They drink, each day, of Bible lore. 
                     
                      
                        The ancient hall stands high and grand, 
                        The dazzling lights still glitter there, 
                        The proud professors hold their heads 
                        High up above the house of prayer. 
                     
                      
                        Down in the valley ring the bells, 
                        Which every Sunday sweetly call 
                        Hermann and Jasper far away 
                        From the false light of college halls. 
                     
                     
                      
                        One morning, when the rosy light 
                        Of the bright sun just tipped the hill, 
                        The boys awoke-but nowhere near 
                        Was their sweet Alba watching still. 
                     
                      
                        The fawn had gone-her mission done. 
                        Hermann and Jasper always said, 
                        That on that mystic creature's form 
                        There seemed to be a human head. 
                     
                      
                        At least, two starry human eyes 
                        Had followed round them day by day; 
                        Whose loving glance had led their steps 
                        Back to their childhood's simple way. 
                     
                      
                        They both may wander far and wide, 
                        Throughout the earth, away from home; 
                        But the sweet memories of their youth 
                        In misty crowds will often come. 
                     
                      
                        But't will not be the college halls, 
                        Nor the professor's high-backed chair, 
                        Nor the false lights of those gray towers, 
                        That come in thronging numbers there. 
                     
                      
                        'T will be the cottage in the vale, 
                        The church bell ringing on the air, 
                        The Book so beautiful and good 
                        The ancient stories pictured there. 
                     
                      
                        The gentle fawn with dark brown eyes 
                        Will look up in their faces then, 
                        And the sweet lessons she has taught 
                        Will guide their steps when they are men. 
                     
                  
                
               At the close, every heart was full, and then, clasping Ernest's hand, the mother said: 
               "It is your own history, my son, and Bertha is the White Fawn-this is a happy, blessed day, indeed." 
                
               Fraulein turned her sparkling dark eyes from one to the other, clasping together her little hands exclaiming: 
               "That is so good, so beautiful, Ernest, and all so true; only you say there were children four, and the fawn seemed here to be one who has gone to heaven." 
               Ernest smiled. 
               "That is a poet's license, Fraulein; it was intended for a resemblance to our own history, and I am sure that our White Fawn is on her way to the skies, though I hope that she may tarry long with us." 
               Rika was quite silent, and Rudolph turning to her, said: 
               "You have nothing to say, Rika." 
               "No, Rudolph; I feel too much for speech; deep feeling is never garrulous, but Ernest knows what I think, and he is satisfied." 
               The poet turned his dreamy eyes upon Rika's face, with a look that neither Rudolph nor Bertha could fail to interpret. Rudolph casts no shadows now upon Ernest's path, for another sun has risen, Fraulein hastened to the poet's side after a few moments, and seating herself by the young man she said reverently: 
               "The Lord's ways are not our ways; you were a proud sceptic, Ernest, and he has brought down your loftiness; but there is such a difference in the way that real faith takes up its abode in our hearts -you had such a hard, stony road to travel, and Bertha through such green meadows, and by such quiet waters." 
               "That is true, Fraulein;" replied the youth, "but He knows what is best." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               THE CHIMES. 
               THERE is a merry peal from the old church steeple, for it is Bertha's wedding day. Attired in the pure dress of a young bride, she steps into the carriage much more engrossed by the thoughts of her new relations, than by the beautiful, yet simple costume, chosen by Aunt Mina. 
               She is alone with Rudolph. Her affection for the young minister was always reverential-it is still more so to-day; for she has been studying her new duties as a Christian wife, and is quite ready to yield the affectionate respect due from wife to husband. 
               "Thou and thine, Rudolph; the words are so sweet to-day," said the young girl, her deep blue eyes suffused with holy feeling. 
               "Mine, all mine. Pansy," was the low reply, as he clasped the little hand within his own; "mine in the Lord, mein leibling, and that means a union that can never be severed." 
               Ernest and Rika, Conrad and Gretchen, act as groomsmen and bridesmaids; Rudolph casts no shadows now upon Ernest's path, for he often says that "Rika suits him altogether, checking his flights of fancy, and taking care of him, just as a life companion should of such a genius." 
               Fraulein is in the carriage with the Professor and his wife, the little lady radiant in a new black silk, the gift of the bride, and old Barbara too is there, proud and happy in her brown mouseline, Bertha's gift also. Doctor Eichenbrodt bestowed a warm blessing upon the young pair, for he loved Bertha with a fatherly affection. 
               Next day we follow the two on a tour up the Rhine, where alone they enjoyed the charming scenery, stopping on their way home at the castle, organizing a musical society among the people, for several of the men at the settlement have stringed and wind instruments, and know enough of music to train the rest. 
               "We shall want plenty of that at Zeigfeldt," said the young lady, "in the days that are near; for I am coming among you to make you happy, my good people." 
               The pair were not a little surprised and pleased to find a band already organized by Herr Konigmacher, assembled out on the terrace after they had retired, playing some sweet German airs. 
               "We shall have music, you see, Rudolph," said the young wife. 
               "One singing bird, if none other," was the answer. 
               From letters received after leaving Heidelberg, they are in daily expectation of the arrival of Aunt Margarethe and Frederic Geiss, and have directed to send them down immediately on their arrival. 
               They have scarcely time to prepare their rooms, ere they are at Zeigfeldt; Aunt Margarethe so happy to see Bertha united to one whom she esteems so highly, but most of all to find her so useful and beloved; so truly crowned with goodness. In a short time, the two commence their operations: Bertha having fitted up the chapel in the ancient part of the castle, where Aunt Margarethe is gathering her flock, and where Frederic Geiss preaches on Sunday, Aunt Margarethe taking charge of the music. 
               The two afflicted girls, Durten and Frida, were brought home to the castle; the blind girl taught to do many things, and poor imbecile Frida, with just sense enough to clean knives and forks, and help the old servant to wipe the dishes. 
               The cheerful atmosphere of their new home was doing much for the poor things; and Bertha hoped that something might be done for Durten's eyes. Rudolph knew enough of surgery to examine them, and pronounced it as his opinion that they were not wholly gone. 
               "I am so anxious to be here, Rudolph," said the young wife, "it will be such a pleasure to see the place grow; they shall have little yards before their houses, Rudolph, and the children shall plant the flowers, and learn to sing and play, too, poor things; I feel just like playing with them myself; I'll try to bring some sunshine here yet." 
               "You'll succeed, mein liebling; for it is all around you, Pansy." 
               Sunday came round at last, and there was no need of persuading the people to come to the service in the chapel; the novelty attracting many, and the longing of the human heart for the assurance of a Divine Fatherly love bringing many more-"Our Father" is scarcely equal to the longing-My Father is the deep burden of the deep sigh of humanity. 
               Clad in their homely, but cleanly garb, with faces marred and seamed by hard toil, and pallid for want of pure air, Bertha's heart went out in all its fullness of love to those poor people, Rudolph joining heartily with his young wife. 
               They were told, poor, weary pilgrims, that "this was no longer Zeigfeldt, but Heart's Content; they must forget the damp and darkness of that former tomb, and come out into the sunshine of a new life; for this shall be a resting place for the sons and daughters of toil." 
               Smiles passed over the pale faces of the weary, as they listened to this message of a Father's love. 
               In the afternoon, the people gathered in the garden, back of the castle. 
               "Don't hinder the poor things, Pansy," said her husband, "we will go among them, you shall take your guitar, and I my flute; and we'll sing some of our sweet Moravian hymns, and then I'll drop a few words to them about the loving Saviour, and we can pray to our Father in heaven, under the shade of His own green trees." 
               "But the lager, Rudolph; I am afraid of intemperance; I have seen so much of that at other public places." 
               "We'll try to bring that all right after awhile, Pansy; but we must not travel too fast, mein liebling; the German people are wedded to their old customs." 
               The poor people were so happy when they saw the young pair take their seat among them, and drawn by their kindly chat, were very ready to listen to the minister's good words; for the mothers were loud in his praise. 
               "Did you see him take up little Hans Grbel?" said one of the women; "and he had such a dirty face, too; all full of gingerbread." 
               "He is a good man," said one. 
               "And his young frau is just like an angel," said another, "she is always doing good to somebody." 
               "She is going to take Durten up to Heidelberg," said Brasig Reuter, "for the minister says that something can be done for the poor thing yet." 
               Before they left the garden, Rudolph dictated the words of a sweet hymn, and the company joined in singing it under the green trees. Thus a tie was formed between the dwellers at the castle, and the lowly children of poverty, who blessed them as they returned home. 
                
               Herr Konigmacher has been using some of the largest rooms that he could find for his business; but now the new factory is finished, and the people crowd in, anxious to obtain employment, even little children being able to do some of the work. 
               Gradually the lace weavers drop off; the new work is so much more cheerful, so much better in every way-many a hearty laugh passing round the room, at the work of their own hands, when the odd, fantastic humors produced the funny little toys. 
               The young pair are at home again; Rudolph is delivering a course of lectures on the evidences of Christianity, and preaches often at the old church; chosen assistant minister at last, being quite ready to associate with the Lutheran Church, if they are willing to tolerate his simple gospel preaching. 
               There is much activity at a house not far from home, for Bertha is going to housekeeping, and Fraulein is busy as a bee-she has been making a lovely quilt for the young lady, and lending her hand to all sorts of work in the new home. 
               Settled at length, Rudolph is never tired of complimenting Betha's housekeeping, for she has learned thoroughly at Aunt Mina's, and like a true German lady, she is not above the womanly calling. There is a garden in front of the neat little home, and there Bertha may be seen in the early spring time, busy among her flowers, for they are to her almost as lovely as children. 
               Durten has been with her all winter under the doctor's care, and there are hopes entertained of the restoration of her eyesight. Bertha is very watchful and tender toward the child, and Durten in turn devoted to her friend. 
               Early in the summer, Bertha takes up her abode at the castle, Rudolph having a vacation of six weeks, and Fraulein seeming to help her favorite in her plans. There is a pleasant sitting-room looking out upon the lovely river, with a small balcony in front, where the ladies sit with their work; the two busy heads discussing the intentions of the young mistress of the castle. 
               "You see, Fraulein, if we want to do good here we must begin with the mothers; Aunt Margarethe will take good care of the children, and I will meet the mothers once a week in the evening. I am so thankful now to Aunt Mina, she has taught me so much; and you too, Fraulein, you know how to make the best use of a kreutzer; they do the best they can, but they don't know much." 
               "They will be glad enough to come, Bertha, and the chapel will be full before the summer is over." 
               "I am going to speak to Herr Konigmacher about a plan I have in my mind; he is making money fast, and I think that he might close the factory at three o'clock on Saturday; then the people can have a real holiday." 
               "That is a happy thought; he will do it, I think, for the people all like him, and say that he is a kind-hearted man." "The garden shall be enlarged; Frau von Zandt shall open a restaurant, where the people can have a cup of coffee, and a good meal when they want it; she can make buns, and pretzels, and crullers, and gingerbread; and all the good children at school shall have them on Saturday afternoon; I'll see to that. We'll have flying horses, and swings, and velocipedes, and all the darkness and poverty of Zeigfeldt shall give way to the brightness of Heart's Content; then we'll try to have sacred music there every Sunday, and I think that the people will be willing to do as we propose, Fraulein-let the flying horses and the velocipedes rest on Sunday; and if we go there ourselves, we'll lead them along gradually; but the little children shall play just as the lambs and birds do, Fraulein; for God has made them so." 
               Fraulein seized Bertha's hand, and kissing it, her black eyes sparkling with delight, she said, 
               "You have drawn a pretty picture, Pansy." 
               "It shall be more than that, Fraulein." 
               Early in the autumn, the church is ready; very much after the order of the one at Bethlehem, only not so white and bare; the pulpit and desk within the hearing and comfortable seeing of the people, draped with crimson, too; the seats for the choir corresponding, and the windows shaded with green blinds; the school-rooms just a step or two below the ground, light, cheerful, dry, with just the arrangements proposed by Aunt Margarethe, with room enough to accommodate two hundred children. The family on the Heights have been sent for on the great occasion of dedicating the church, and all are here but Fritz, who is not able to leave his regiment. 
               It is Sunday morning, and they are out upon the terrace, enjoying the lovely scenery around them, Rudolph and Bertha talking about the picture of Heart's Content; when, softly at first, the chimes from the new church come stealing over the hill-then swelling out in loud merry peals, bringing the dwellers in the humble cottages out to their front doors to hail the joy-bells; the men standing with hats uplifted, the women with hands clasped, and the little children skipping about in their innocent delight. 
               Conrad and Ernest with Magda, Gretchen with Rika, and Thekla and her little boy, are all here, the Professor and his good wife sharing in the common joy. 
               The chimes rang out at three different periods, heard far and near on this Sunday morning; and when the last peal died away, Conrad and Ernest, arm in arm, followed the parents on their way to church, Bertha turning to Rudolph a face beaming with holy joy, saying: 
                      
                        "The church bells ring on Sunday morn; 
                        The mother walks no more alone, 
                        The holy Book, so beautiful, 
                        In the boys' eyes has dearer grown. 
                     
                      
                        "Under the apple-tree's green shade, 
                        They sit again on Sunday eve- 
                         
                        A deeper joy is in their eyes, 
                        Hermann and Jasper both believe." 
                     
                  
                
               Rudolph preached the opening sermon-good news to the weary sons of toil, for "to the poor is the gospel preached;" and this was indeed glad tidings, for it was full of Christ, and in these six letters is hidden all that the world has sighed for so long, all that man needs for his spiritual nature here and hereafter. 
               Bertha presided at the organ, playing some of the sweet Moravian hymns, which the people had long been practicing, and joined now in singing with all their hearts. Just at sunset there was another service, when the trombones from the church steeple called the worshipers to the Lord's Supper; and Bertha's heart glowed with unspeakable joy, when from every direction she saw the people crowding to the church, rough and uncouth in their dress and manners, but all welcome to their Father's board, spread just for such as these with the heavenly manna of the kingdom-all welcome who came with a true and living faith, even feeble as a grain of mustard seed. 
               Bertha remembered the seed-thoughts planted on her first visit to the lace-weavers, and here was the ripened fruit; to God alone she gave the glory, for it was His work, and His alone. 
               Returning home after this sacred feast, Conrad and Ernest sought their mother's side, each holding a dear hand, Ernest saying softly, "Abba! Father, now we cry, mein mutter." Tears of joy rained over the face of the good lady, and Rika stole round behind her chair, leaning affectionately over the little mother. 
               Ernest turned his eyes upon her fine face, and taking her hand, led Rika to his mother, saying, 
               "Bless us, mein, mutter, for we shall be one some day." 
               The mother's eyes rested fondly upon the pair who stood before her. 
               "Just what I should have desired, Ernest-this good, strong, tender friend; the very best wife for you, my son; God bless you now and forevermore." 
               It had been a blessed day, but only one of many that would hereafter shine upon Heart's Content. 
               Next day, Bertha and Fraulein were out on one of their walks, and found old Frau Holspecker not very well, but ready to talk about yesterday's blessing, telling Bertha of some of the neglected ones at Zeigfeldt, for the old name was not yet forgotten. 
               "There are the poor orphans, my good lady," said the woman. 
               "What orphans, Elspeth?" 
               "Some made by one of the wars; there are six of them, without a friend on earth to care for them, scattered around among the people, too young to take care of themselves, and the people not able to do much for them." 
               It was not long ere a home was provided for the blind, the sick and helpless, and these six orphans phans, where they were perfectly cared for, and trained until old enough to get their own living. 
               Aunt Margarethe superintended this home, appointing a matron to preside at the head; and thus we find Bertha carrying out her long-cherished desires. 
               She has succeeded, too, in obtaining Herr Konigmarcher's consent for the Saturday holiday, thus providing for the social wants of the settlement; it was really no loss to the men, for they labored all the more cheerfully and industriously for one that seemed to care for them. 
               After the vintage, we find the family at the castle taking leave of their summer home, Rudolph having gone some weeks before. 
               Doctor Eichenbrodt is unable to leave his bed now, and all the church-work rests upon the assistant; but he is an able minister of the New Testament, and fully meets the wants of the people. 
               At the close of the winter, the old minister passed away to his eternal rest-his memory embalmed in the hearts of his people, for he had labored among them for thirty years, "in season and out of season," and was now gathered home, a ripe shock, into the heavenly garner. 
               The widow tarried a very short time at the parsonage, taking up her abode at length with a married daughter. 
               Rudolph was placed at once in full charge of the church, and in a few weeks moved to the parsonage, where, as the minister's wife, Bertha, exercised a sweet womanly influence; home, however, being her province. 
               Conrad has left Heidelberg to study art in the European cities; Gretchen is by Magda's side, mellowing and softening, her flow of animal spirits subsiding into a bright sunny nature, so desirable in woman. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               THE KINDERGARTEN. 
               AT the castle again, Bertha has not forgotten her pet plan of a Kindergarten, well styled The Paradise of Childhood. 
               On the next morning after her arrival, we find her on a visit to Aunt Margarethe's school. The children all love the gentle lady, and are taught to pay her the reverence of rising when she enters the room; always prettily and readily done, a smile upon each bright face. One of their sweetest hymns was sung, after which, Aunt Margarethe read over the names of the children entitled to special commendation, some for conduct, others for improvement generally, and quite a number of little girls, for diligence and neatness in needle-work and knitting. 
               "You are terribly crowded," said Bertha, looking around at the closely-packed children. 
               "That is true," was the reply, "but I cannot turn one away, and have called in the help of Mrs. Niemann; but we have so many little ones that really ought to be in another room, for we cannot do justice to sixty children, from five to sixteen, all crowded together!" 
                
               "I see that clearly, aunt," was Bertha's reply; "the time has come now for a Kindergarten. I know two sisters ready to join us, trained in one of Froebel's best schools-Louise and Beta Hertzog-they have both had much experience, and are the very ones-but we must have a bright, sunny room for such a school. I will call round after the morning session, and we will examine the building; it shall be done, dear aunt." 
               Accordingly, we find the two looking at one on the south side, sunny and bright, and quite large enough for the purpose. 
               "This is the very room," said Bertha, looking around quite delighted; "this nice large closet for the cloaks and hats, and this little yard adjoining, the very spot for a garden." 
               "I believe that you are right," was the reply. 
               Bertha stepped quickly around the room, measuring it for furniture. 
               "Room for two long tables to accommodate twenty children at each; and such a clear, open space for play. Then just look at these windows facing the south all the winter, flooding the room with sunlight." 
               Calling on her way home upon the young minister, Frederick Geiss, she found him ready to undertake the journeying-for he must go to Berlin to obtain materials for such a work. 
               "I will give you the order to-morrow," said the young lady, on taking her leave at the door, and reaching home, she found her husband equally interested in her benevolent plans. 
               In a few days Mr. Geiss returned, and found the work already in a state of progress, for the tables were ordered, and benches with backs for the comfort and support of the little ones. 
               Busy hands and loving hearts expedited the arrangements. Bright pictures of natural history and moral and Scripture stories were hung upon the walls, and Christian mottoes, beautifully illuminated, appeared all around. 
               "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not," faced the door; "God is love," and "Little children, love one another," on either side; "Thou God seest me," "Jesus died for our sins," and "God bless our school," were hung in other parts of the room. One morning, the carpenter came in with boxes filled with rich mould, which were placed in each window. 
               "What are these for, Bertha?" inquired her companion. 
               "Can't you guess, dear aunt? Who ever heard of a Kindergarten without flowers!" 
               "O, I see now; we are to have window-gardens." 
               "Just so; I have ordered a quantity of bulbs; tulips, hyacinths, and crocuses; the narcissus and anemone too; and we will have a hanging basket at every window." 
               "I suppose that we shall have birds, too, to sing for us, Bertha?" 
                
               The opening day is here, and at a given signal, the band outside struck up an inspiring air, the procession formed, and marched off around the building several times, and in perfect order were introduced to the room, the names of the little ones having been previously read out, the two teachers heading the company. 
               The children could scarcely be restrained from loud expressions of delight at the sight that met them, for the room was beautifully dressed with flowers and green boughs. Bertha was seated at the piano, playing a pretty march, Rudolph and Frederic Geiss on either side. Under the skillful management of the teachers, the little ones took their seats at the low tables, and the others on benches brought in for the occasion. When all were quietly seated, Rudolph addressed the children in words of welcome to their new school, and, in a short, simple prayer, asked God's blessing upon the Kindergarten. After that, Miss Louise stepped forward, her bright sunny face, sweet smile, and neat little figure attracting every one; but when her musical voice uttered the first words, all were ready to listen. 
               Her deep blue eyes took in at a glance the smile of welcome, for there is a wonderful chord of sympathy between little children and the hearts that love them; for there is a sweet and true saying, that a real child of the kingdom "loves God and little children." 
                
               "Just look around, mein kinder," said the lady, "at this charming room; this is a Kindergarten-say the words after me," and every little voice repeated softly and sweetly, "Kindergarten." 
               "Now let me tell you what that means. Many years ago, there was a good man named Froebel, who loved little children dearly. He had not a bright and happy home when he was a little boy, for the people were not so wise then as they are becoming now. His father was a minister, and had a great deal to do out of doors; his mother was dead, his brothers away at boarding-school, and he lived in a gloomy house, where there was scarcely any sunshine. His father was afraid for him to go out alone, and so he was left under the care of a servant, who had all the work to do, and no time to amuse poor little Frederic. He was nearly starved-not his body, children, but his growing mind, and his loving heart. His chief amusement was watching the workmen out of the window, repairing his father's church, and he longed to do the same; so that led him, when a man, to provide simple blocks for children to play at building, sure that this was one of the earliest wishes of a little child. 
               "He was a loving little boy, too; but the one who had the care of him, and whom he was learning to love, had a little boy of her own, and did not care for poor little Frederic, saying 'thou' to her own child, and only he, when speaking to Frederic Froebel. 
                
               "So he thought a great deal about the wants of the little child's heart and mind, and this made him invent the Kindergarten. You know how you like to jump, and run, and play; so did he, and he invented the plays that keep you from hurting each other. 
               "You know how you like to invent things; so did he. You make houses out of rough stones, and mud too sometimes, and dams, and bridges, and little boats. Knowing this, he invented pretty blocks for children to build with, without destroying everything. 
               "You love pretty things, don't you? He knew that, too; so he invented ways of making lovely things out of bright-colored paper, weaving them into such pretty forms; and beautiful things out of folded paper, with a pair of scissors. Now you shall be taught all this; won't it be lovely?" 
               "That is gute! That is gute!" said several little voices. 
               "Now look at the sweet pictures, so many from the precious Bible, our dear Father's own book; and many about dear children, and some about the wonderful animals that God has placed in this world of ours-some so useful, some so beautiful, some so wonderful, but none to be abused. 
               "Now turn your eyes toward the windows; don't you see the boxes there? By and by, when the right time comes, I shall put in the mould or dirt that is in them, some rough, ugly looking bulbs, some looking like onions or potatoes. After a few weeks, the green sprouts will shoot up, and then, in a few weeks more, they will be covered with the most lovely flowers of all colors, tulips, and hyacinths, and crocuses, and you will clap your little hands with joy at the sight of our heavenly Father's smiles. We call them our window gardens. Now look at the sweet words upon the walls-'God is love;' we see that everywhere, and if He had not loved you, mein kinder, He would not have put it in the heart of this kind lady to fix up such a pretty room just for you. Then, 'Thou God seest me;' as that is so true, never speak a word or do anything when you are alone, that you would be ashamed to do or speak before your mother, for God knows more than she. Then those sweet words, 'Suffer the little children to come unto me'-our dear Lord's blessed words, that he spoke when he laid his hands upon the heads of the little ones and blessed them. Then, 'again, 'Jesus died for our sins.' Remember that, and love him with all your hearts. Here is another: 'Little children, love one another;' I want that to be the rule of our Kindergarten, it is so sweet, so beautiful. Now, all look at me; I have come here to love you, and to teach you how to love God and one another. I think I shall love you all, and always. When you are good, I shall love you, because goodness is always lovely; and when you are naughty, I shall love you still; not because you are lovely then, but because I shall be so sorry for you, so sorry that you can be naughty after all that God has done for you. 
               Now there is one beautiful sentence that we will all say together with our hands clasped, and our eyes closed; now repeat after me-"God bless our school." And very reverently the dear children repeated the beautiful words, and many a mother wiped the tears from her eyes, at the sound of the sweet, low voices. 
               The little ones felt that they were in the presence of a dear, kind friend, and their young hearts were all ready to respond to her sweet appeal. 
               It would have done Bertha's heart good to have heard the talk that evening around the supper tables of these grateful people; the good frau whom she had first met in the damp cellar of the lace weavers, the most deeply affected. 
               "I knew that she was an angel of goodness," said the poor woman, "by the way that she talked to me about my work; and now only look at Heart's Content." 
               "I often think about it," said Brasig Reuter, "when I walk among these neat little homes." 
               "Then our children have learned so many good things from Fraulein Margarethe; there is such a change in my Lena, she used to be the most idle girl around, now she is such a help to me, with the other children; and she has learned all her changed ways at the school." 
                
               "Was it not a pretty sight when the children marched around the school-house?" said Brasig. 
               "That it was, and I can tell you that I have not shed so many happy tears since we first went into our nice little home," replied the good frau. "I could not help it, Brasig; but I saw others just like me." 
               Fraulein, too, had her pleasant chat at the castle. 
               "I often think about the seed-thoughts, Pansy;" said the good lady, "and this Kindergarten is the sweetest fruit of all." 
               "I hope that it will prove so, Fraulein; was it not a happy day?" 
               "A blessed day, Pansy; I think that you will be charmed with your teacher." 
               "I think that she loves the little ones, and that is one of the highest traits for a Kindergarten." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
               CROWNED A QUEEN. 
               SIX years have passed, and great changes are seen at Heart's Content. 
               The settlement is thriving, lace-weaving a thing of the past. Herr Konigmacher has been a prosperous man, and now a pyrotechnic factory is springing up under his enterprising hand; business so crowding upon him, that he must have a good book-keeper for the latter establishment. 
               Bertha thinks at once of Berthold Mller. "Thekla's health is delicate; her heart is longing for her kindred, and it would be such a delightful place to bring up Thekla's children, not very strong; then Berthold has really improved so much;" so argues Bertha; and Rudolph has no difficulty in securing the place for him. 
               There is such a pretty house, just finished, not far from the castle, with its little plot of ground, and its flower-garden in front. News travels fast, and Thekla is so glad to leave Munich, and Berthold longs for change, too. 
               Bertha is so happy when Thekla is really settled, running down with her work to take tea with her cousin; for she is an industrious mother, and seldom goes out without her knitting-bag. 
               Many of Bertha's dreams are realized; not all, however, for when did that ever happen in this sin-weary world? but in the midst of much corruption there is a kingdom, invisible it is true, into which God's children are coming all over this earth, making up the number of God's elect. 
               There are many new homes at Heart's Content; not one without its pretty garden front, and its plot back, where vegetables are raised in quantity sufficient for family wants. 
               Bertha often walks through the village when the toils of the day are over, the sound of music greeting her everywhere; for violins and flutes, clarionets and trombones, are numerous among the new-comers; and in the houses of the upper officers of the factories are pianos, too; so that one could scarcely realise the present cheerful, thriving village to be the same damp, lonely place that first attracted Bertha's tenderest sympathy. 
               Many a little one runs out to greet the lady, not afraid to take her hand and lead her into their little gardens, to see how beautifully their flowers grow; the larger boys pointing to their cabbages and beans, their beets and onions, in the plots back of their houses-the fruit of seed scattered through the village by her own hands. Flying horses, and velocipedes, and swings, are in the public garden; and every Saturday afternoon, Bertha and her two sweet children, with Durten for their nurse, now fully restored to sight, join the happy group that assemble in the garden, enjoying the out-door German life with the humblest. 
               Rudolph has added a large vineyard to the estate, where, on its fruitful hills, are raised delicious grapes, in great abundance affording employment to many in their cultivation and gathering. 
                
               Bertha is twenty six now; the mother of two lovely children, Wilhelm and Meta, the former five, the latter three years of age. Rudolph is meditating a celebration of the birth-day. 
               "Thou hast a kingdom, mein liebling," said the husband, "and must be crowned queen." 
               "I desire nothing like display, Rudolph, and do hope that no one regards me in that light, for I am very sure that I have no love of ruling," was her low reply. 
               "None reign so regally, Pansy, as those who show no queenly sceptre; thine is truly the woman's kingdom of love, and there thou art enthroned." 
               "How shall we keep it, Rudolph? I have a thought, if it suits thee; we'll have a feast, not for the rich, however; we will call the poor and needy around us, the toiling mothers and the sweet children, and they shall have a happy day." 
               "Just what I approve with all my heart, Pansy; the Lord's own feast of love." 
                
               It is soon known throughout the village, and the mothers and children are full of innocent surprise. 
               The family on the Heights of course will be there, with Fraulein Peterkin; and Fritz, too, who has leave of absence for a short time. Madame von Ingolstadt and her daughters receive an invitation, the latter declining, the former accepting, from motives of curiosity to spy the ground. 
               It is midsummer, when the flowers are in their richest bloom, and the little gardens are most carefully watched long before, the loveliest buds examined by the young gardeners. The tables and seats are hired from the public garden, and spread out upon the terrace in front of the castle; a fine band of music is seated under the green trees, and the tables are bountifully spread with substantials, and plenty of fine fruit from the orchards around the castle. There is a pleasant surprise for Bertha when the church bell strikes up a merry peal at the time appointed; and at four o'clock we see the mothers and their children crowding the paths that lead to the castle. 
               The seats are soon filled, and Rudolph with the lady of the castle made their appearance, accompanied by the two sweet children, under the care of Durten. Clad in a dress of pure white, with no ornament save her wedding-ring and a brooch just presented by her husband, Bertha greets the humble people in her most heart-warm manner, refusing to wear a single costly ornament which might remind them of the distance between the lady of the castle, and the humble children of toil. 
               Seated around the tables, they partake of the good cheer; each having a cup of rich coffee, with the best cream and nice loaf sugar, quite a treat to the poor people. 
               Madame Von Ingolstadt is there in full dress, blazing with jewels; but the people have eyes only for the simple-hearted lady. 
               Madame is not at all pleased with this state of things, and puts herself forward in a most conspicious way, but all in vain; she had to fall back at length for the real queen. There is a secret, however, known only by Aunt Margarethe, who is walking frequently to the terrace nearest the gate, evidently expecting an arrival. 
               "Ah! there they are," exclaimed the lady to one near her, as she heard the music of the serenading band coming along the road, and in a few minutes more the procession was in sight. 
               Composed of about twenty little girls and boys, the former in clean dresses, a wreath of flowers over the right shoulder, and the boys with bouquets in the button-holes of their jackets. 
               One little girl is carrying a lovely wreath of roses and pansies on a cushion, and another a basket, of most lovely flowers, embedded in soft green moss. 
               Two boys carry baskets of choice vegetables, proud to show what has been done in their little garden plot. 
                
               "We must be seated, Bertha," said the husband, as soon as he saw the approach of the children; for he had just learned their secret. 
               The poor children were so abashed by the sight of so many ladies and gentlemen, that they had forgotten the speeches that they had been learning for the last week, and looked in their confusion to Aunt Margarethe, to present their humble offerings of love. 
               Advancing with her wreath, little Ida Ludwig tried to speak, but not a word escaped her trembling lips. 
               "They would crown the queen, Bertha," said her aunt. 
               Smiling upon the little girl, the gentle lady bowed her head to receive the pretty tribute of affection. 
               Then came the lovely basket of flowers, and with a courtesy, and nothing more, the little girl presented her sweet offering. 
               "This is beautiful indeed, Christine," said the lady, "I suppose that it is in the name of my little girls." 
               "Yes, Madame; we all picked our best flowers," said the child, "and Fraulein Margarethe put them in the basket for us." 
               "You are dear, good children, and I thank you for your lovely flowers." 
               Then spoke up Franz Kaufman in the name of all the rest. 
                
               "We bring our very best, Madame," said the boy, "we know that you do not need them at the castle, but we want you to see what your seeds have done in our little gardens." 
               "And have you all such fine vegetables as these?" inquired Bertha. 
               "Almost all of us-every one that is willing to work, Madame; if there are any that don't grow, it is in the garden of some lazy fellow." 
               "I feel almost as proud as you do, Franz," said the lady; "may God prosper and bless you, my boy." 
               Then the band struck up a fine march, and heading the procession, the crowned queen led the children to the table, and supplied them with her own fair hands. 
               Returning to her seat, Bertha took her little girl upon her lap, who admired mutter's pretty crown, and begged for one of the sweet flowers. 
               "I cannot spoil my crown, Meta," said the mother, "it is the little girls' work, and they would be so sorry." 
               "And so Bertha Von Schweinitz is not ambitious," said Aunt Hildegarde, who was seated near her niece; "truly she is queen here just as really as our queen at Berlin, only her kingdom is smaller." 
               "She never sought after it, madame," said Fraulein, "all this is just the outburst of gratitude from honest hearts." 
               Entering the parlors, they left the people out of doors to enjoy the band of music and pleasant neighborly chat, while the party within were entertained with most delicious music, for the Professor is in fine tune, the boys with their instruments, and the ladies with their fine voices, drawing many humble listeners away from the band out of doors. 
               "Where are your mother's jewels, Bertha?" inquired her aunt, "do you never wear them?" 
               "If I were at Berlin there would be some propriety in such adornments; but here, at Heart's Content, among these humble people, they would be wholly out of place; and at Heidelberg, as the wife of a Lutheran minister, still more so." 
               "And yet you might have displayed them at court, Bertha, if you had not been a fool." 
               "And been only a Baroness there, Aunt Hildegarde," said Bertha, smiling; "here I have a kingdom, and Rudolph calls me queen; there are my jewels, aunt," pointing to her children, "are they not lovely? What care I for pomp and show with such as these?" 
               "I do not understand you, Bertha; I see nothing of this at Berlin." 
               "I promise you one thing, dear aunt," said her niece, "I will wear my jewels at Ursula's wedding." 
               After supper, out upon the terrace, where the trees were illuminated by colored lamps and lanterns, Bertha is suddenly greeted by the bright flash of sky-rockets, sent up from the front terrace; and then led out to the back of the castle, where there was a large, open space, she read in large, glittering letters: 
                     THE LADY OF THE CASTLE, CROWNED QUEEN, BY HER LOVING SUBJECTS, AT HEART'S CONTENT.
                  
                
               "Who did all this, Rudolph?" she asked, with a full heart. 
               "Herr Konigmacher and some of the officers at the factory; but this is not all, Pansy; we shall have some grand fire-works directly." 
               "That was why you kept me so closely in the front grounds, Rudolph." 
               The night being fine, there was a beautiful display in honor of 
               "Madame von Schweinitz, Geburtstag." 
               For this was the inscription over the principal piece. 
               Ernest and Rika are in close converse about the scenes of the day. They have been married several years, and a most happy union it has proved; Rika entering at once into all the domestic cares of a good housekeeper, sympathising and helping her husband so happily in his literary pursuits. 
               "This is a pretty coronation," said Rika, "Bertha is a real queen here-husband and servants, and those sweet children, all so innocently swayed by her gentle, loving rule." 
                
               "Yes, Rika, we see here the truth of those beautiful lines- 
                      
                        "'T is only noble to be good; 
                        Kind hearts are more than coronets, 
                        And simple faith than Norman blood." 
                     
                  
                
               The little children are running after Bertha, all anxious to touch her hands; if not able to do that, contented with just getting a slight hold of her white dress, as she flits about among the crowd. Christine and little Ida succeed at length in getting the lady into a retired spot by themselves, telling her long stories about their pigeons and ducks and chickens, and what they expect to do with the money that they make. Rudolph sees it all; and when the last guest had disappeared, he seated himself by Bertha, and clasping her hand within his own broad palms, he said: 
               "I have had a peep into woman's kingdom to-day, Pansy; what a pity that any one should be so foolish as to step out of such a realm, into that of coarse, vulgar men; for that is the ambition of some of the new lights." 
               "Don't call me queen after to-night, Rudolph; it sounds as if I like to rule, and you know I don't-do I, husband?" 
               "You do not seek it, Pansy; but nevertheless, you hold the sceptre here of regal sway." 
               "The queen of hearts, then, Rudolph; that is all-and only in the quiet corners of home." 
               "When I saw thee crowned with that pretty wreath, I was thinking, Pansy, of that day when years ago, in Bethlehem, we were talking about thy coronet, and thou did'st take thy little foot, and crush it so; dost thou remember, Pansy?" 
               "I do, Rudolph; and just the place where we were sitting. I said then just what I have felt ever since, that all I cared for was a crown of goodness." 
               "Thou might'st wear both, Pansy." 
               "Yes, that is true; but when I saw so much pomp connected with the one at Berlin, I turned away forever-for everything was made to bend to that; but we are members of a better kingdom Rudolph; the kingdom of heaven, spoken of in the Scriptures, as here upon this earth." 
               "Yes, Pansy; our Lord said: 'The kingdom of God is within you,' and the apostle in later days wrote: 'For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost.' If we are truly the subjects of that heavenly kingdom, let us seek to have the humble, docile spirit of guileless children." 
               "We have something of it here, Rudolph; I am sure that I felt its benediction to-day, when the dear children brought that pretty crown, for I knew the love that guided their little hands, and I did not receive it as my due, Rudolph, but as their gift." 
               And so Bertha was crowned at Heart's Content. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
               THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN. 
               THERE is just such a blessed realm at Heart's Content, a kingdom within the heart; its loyal subjects dwelling here in the midst of a world of turmoil and strife, their brows furrowed with the cares of life, but wearing the signet of the children of the resurrection. 
               Bertha's early days were strewed with flowers, but as the years roll on, she too has received the seal of citizenship; the angel of sorrow has not passed her by, for it is ever true that "whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth." 
               Wilhelm, her first born darling, had sported around her feet six happy years, giving high promise of a bright and gifted childhood, filling the house with his merry laughter-every heart with his winning love. But suddenly the messenger came, and bore him away to the companionship of the blessed ones, "who follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth." It has been a fearful blow to the young mother, and the husband and wife are standing in their bereavement, by the side of their faded flower, her head upon her husband's bosom, her hand clasped within his own. 
                
               "Our first sorrow, Pansy," said Rudolph, "but thou knowest that we gave him to the Lord in the very bud of his existence, and shall we hold him back when he is called away from a world of sin and sorrow?" 
               "I would not, Rudolph, but he was so lovely, and wound himself into the very depths of my heart; such a loving, holy child-how am I to live without my darling?" 
               "That is the language of nature, Pansy," was the low reply, "let us try to say 'the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be the name of the Lord.'" 
               "I do not murmur, Rudolph: I only miss the clasp of the dear hand, the kiss of the sweet lips, and the whispered words of fond affection; but it will make heaven seem so near, husband, so real, when we remember that we have a sweet child there waiting for us." 
               "This is only a part of the chastening promised to the true children of God, Pansy; let us listen to the voice that calls us to a higher life, and while we dwell here on earth, may our hearts be in heaven." 
               And so the two comforted each other in this, their first bereavement. 
               The people at Heart's Content sympathized with the good lady's grief, for they saw how tenderly she spoke to the little boys after this great affliction, never passing by one of Wilhelm's age without laying ing her hand upon the young head, and blessing the little one for her lost darling's sake. 
               It was the kingdom of heaven still, only a little different now-the joyousness of youth mellowing and softening the deep experience of riper years, purifying and ennobling Bertha's suffering heart. So she walked serenely amidst the people, and the mothers wiped away the silent tears from their own eyes as they remembered the little ones that they too had laid away in God's Acre, for the children of poverty are just as dear to their parents as the offspring of the wealthy. 
               Ernest and his wife are here on a visit, communing together of the kingdom to which they hope they belong. 
               "How is it, Rika?" said the young man to his wife. "I used to think that the kingdom of heaven was only a distant, shadowy realm; but now it is so different-we are learning another lesson, and find this kingdom of love all around our daily paths, Rika." 
               "Yes, Ernest," replied his wife, "if we only remember the life of love that Jesus lived on this earth, if we can only have the same blessed spirit, we are truly members of the kingdom of heaven even here below." 
               "Are we sure that we are members of that blessed kingdom, Rika?" said the husband. 
               "If we have the Master's spirit, Ernest, we may be sure that we are his loyal subjects-the spirit 'of love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness temperance,' not perfect, husband, all at once, but the beginning of each, the pledge of the fullness that will be ours hereafter." 
               "And yet, Rika, there are so many mysteries and so many disturbing elements, such gusts of passion, such weakness of faith, such imperfect love." 
               Rika smiled-"All this is on the surface, Ernest, beneath all the troubled waves, there are quiet depths of peace and love, which these things never reach." 
               The two are living at Heidelberg now, Ernest pursuing his literary labors, occupying a professor's chair at the university, honored and beloved, blessed with one dear child, their little Selma; thus living a happy, useful life, Ernest is daily coming into the light that he had craved so long and fruitlessly. 
               Thekla is still at Heart's Content, Berthold providing a comfortable home. She is the mother of two children, very domestic and industrious, coming into the kingdom too. Fraulein, of course, is interested in her prosperity, and comes sometimes in the winter to cheer her fireside, for she says, good soul! that "Thekla does well enough in the summer time, when Bertha and her family are there," and so she comes in the cold and lonely days, and it always seemed as if a singing bird was in the house when Fraulein was with them, the children following her around, and she always ready to amuse and please them. 
                
               "Now for a pretty story, Fraulein," little Heinrich would say, perching himself on her lap; and it was really a pretty picture, when the bright, cheerful room was lit up in the evening by Fraulein's sunny face and the sparkling eyes of the little ones, Thekla looking on, such a proud and happy mother. She was fast parting with the character of the Mimosa, for she, too, was treading in the blessed paths of the kingdom of heaven. Berthold is always at home in the evenings now, for he has given up all his wild ways, and is so fond of his children, much interested by the dainty work learned by the children at the Kindergarten, Heinrich made so happy, when his father praises his pretty inventions. The Kindergarten has made its mark at Heart's Content. Under the care of a wise and loving teacher, the little ones are merry singing birds. Fraulein is never so happy as when she can run down a few weeks in the summer season, when the flowers are in bloom, for the teachers take care that the windows shall always be full, and the children themselves bring their little plants, thus feeling that the gardens are all their own. 
               Bertha, too, spends many an hour in this pleasant room; for when her heart is sad at the remembrance of her lost darling, the sight of these bright, happy faces cheers her sorrowing spirit. The work of reform has been going on very silently, but surely, and so we find the people crowding to the garden on Saturday afternoon, and those generally who are anxious to please the good lady of the castle, choose that day instead of Sunday. 
               The settlement has its feast days-the anniversary of the opening of the church being one, Aunt Margarethe's school another, and the Kindergarten the third. 
               These are joyous occasions-music and flowers in abundance-the family at the castle always taking a prominent part in the festivities of these days. 
               Fraulein and Bertha often talk of the sad thoughts, in the dark and gloomy cellar of the lace-weaver, years ago. 
               "We do not see all;" said the little lady, "it is true that there is much around us to make our hearts sing with joy; but there is a kingdom out of sight, Pansy, into which many of these poor people are pressing, I am sure, and many a little child, too." 
               "Yes, Fraulein, I think that we may say that of our poor girls, Durten and Frida; Durten such an humble, faithful Christian, and Frida, poor thing!-where little is given, little is required,' and I do believe that, according to her feeble ability, she is trying to follow the dear Master." 
               "There is a wonderful deal of talking about the kingdom of heaven," replied Fraulein, "just as if it were a distant world, when I know that it begins here, Pansy. I am sure that sometimes when I have been praying to our dear Lord, and felt him so near, that I have been almost as happy as I expect to be in the world to come; and often when my poor services have helped any one along on the heavenly way, it is just like a flood of joy that fills my heart." 
               "I wonder if we shall know each other in that blessed world," said Bertha. 
               "Do not doubt it for one moment, Pansy; the scene on the holy mount of transfiguration taught that truth beautifully, and I do not think that our dear Lord would give us these warm affections, to rend them all asunder so completely at death." 
               "That is my hope, Fraulein. What a blessed meeting it will be when the parted so long meet again in a world where there shall be no more parting, no more tears. Then I shall see my sweet Wilhelm again, but glorified and clad in the image of our Lord." 
               "What a glorious society we shall have there, Pansy; just think of dwelling forever with prophets, and apostles and holy martyrs, with the good and holy of all ages, and with the army of little children, who follow our Lord in that blessed world." 
               "It is worth living for, Fraulein, but most of all to be forever in the blissful presence of our Lord. We shall have so much to praise God for, so many that we loved, whom we hope to meet in heaven." 
               "I hope that I shall see many little wanderers there, Pansy, that I found astray upon the dark mountains of sin-many little ransomed children, poor Annita among the company." 
               So the hidden life at Heart's Content went silently on; budding here and there, now in the soul of a rough son or daughter of toil, now in the heart of a little tender child, the silent influences working mysteriously, yet powerfully, wherever the Spirit began his holy work-for thus grows and expands the kingdom of heaven, amid sunshine and shadow, amid storms and calms, amid joys and sorrows, all working together for good to those who love God, to those who are true heirs of the kingdom of heaven. 
             
         
       
   
