
    ----CITATION----
        Richter, Paul, novelist.. Lizzie West, the Printer's Daughter .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7578
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Lizzie West, the printer's daughter 
            
               "And there comes from the inner rooms the sound of
playing shuffle-board-and the click of struck billiard balls
knocking together as they roll across the tables."
Page 38.

LIZZIE WEST

THE

IITII'S DIITI

A TALE OF

FILIAL HEROISM

/Ck

BY PAUTL RICH'TER.
Author of "The Lottery Ticket; --or The Forlorn Hope:"
"Eliakim Grubb Esq., Money Lender;" etc., etc.

PHIL AD E L PHI A:

PUBLISHED BY S. C. LAMB,

310 CHESTNUT STREET.


TO
MRS. FRANCES HOWE,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
WHOSE KINDNESS TO HIM DURING BOYHOOD WILL,
NEVER RE FORGOTTEN,
THIS LITTLE BOOK
IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED
BY THE AUTHOR

h

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1859, by
S. C. LAMB,
In 'the Olice of the Clerk of the District Court of the Eastern District
of ,Pennsylvania.

Its


LIZZIE WEST.
PART FIRST.
CH ILM       ,
ON a chilly ?Tovemter afternoon there stood near the
gutter, in Passyunk RAoad below Shippen Stieet in Phira-
delphia, a little girl with a basket in her hand, waiting for.
her drunken father who was looking in at a shop-window.
She had a very sad face and was about ten years old. The
shop before which the man stood was close by, and was one
of a kind common in the neighbourhood; its stock consist-
ing of an assortment of miscellaneous merchandise.
The drunkard'a bare hands were half sunk down into
his antaloons' pockets, and he had that weak-in-the-back
look, so usual in those of his habit. His hat was old, and
half - slouched over his forehead. A maudlin gaze was
directed uponi tbe display before him, but his face had a
vacant stare and his eyes a glassy look, le appeared to
have forgotten every thing he had ever known and himself-
too.


18

LIZZIE WEST;

There was an, impress of character. upon the child's,
face. She could not be older than the age mentioned, yet
there was traced legibly in lines not to be mistaken, the
care-worn look of which we think as belonging of right only
to the mature in years ;-and I thank God every day of my.
life that .it ,is so: :tht the multitude of little children.
throughout fie wiIde world retel inthe happy unconscious/
ness of the toil and struggles which those who love therii
endure, and cheerfully too, for their sakes. A little cuily
head, Annie, whom we. call Bunny-face, that plays every
day underneath my study window when the weather is fair
enough for her to do so, what a different look she has ,out
of her eyes from that of the one standing with such thin
clothes on, and shivering at the c0ity, gutter-side, and who
has evidently conned over many pages of life's experience,
and learned lessons of tria and endurance,
Sh stoodhfora few minutes, 'the father absorbed in
his reverie at the window, when two other girls of about
the same ag, and livingin the neighborhood, came out of'
a so      eral door of and walked on together in the
,directionowards her. They were without their bonnets,
but theiclothing was warm,_And made up of materials of
bright colours  d very large figures. The two were
absorbed inisdiscussion about their dress, and their tones
as they walked along grew angrier,'every moment ;-when,
looking up, they suddenly aw the pale shabby little thing
before tim, and laughed out, rude, at her.
The colour pushed up into the poor child's face; and
her little iti quivered all arodndfwith suffering. The
tears started, butwith a firm resoleA she' forced them back,

1'
/

-I

THE PRINTER'S:DA'UGHTER.

19

and her eyelashes dropped as though she would shut out
the sight of the tormentors in front of: her
"Oh, what a love of a bonnet,-is'ntit Maria Jane?"
said the one infiery red scattered all-over with hig palm
leavesto her companion, asshe glayjced contemptuously at
the- over-large, motherly-looking article on the ,"hild's
head. "Just see thenice clean stringS tool It looks as
if it was the last. fresh fashion, take it all in all, does 'at_
it? "
"I like most the young lady's dress ,"-scoffingly
replied Ahe other, ag yith a scat  look0h., noted the
half-worn and evidently altered garment before her--and
then, lowering her eyes, rested them with, satisfaction upon.
the yellow and maarmrine4blue texture enveloping her ow
fat person, and in which these two colours struggled, in
large dots, for predominance. Soon, renewing her atre, she
continued: "The waist looks as if it belonged to seme big
old aunty, and the skirt cut off short: and such: a sha l
too!   I wonder where the other three-quarters;have
walked off! Can you tell, Angelina ? "_ and she looked
quizzically into the face of her associate.,
"I do n't -know,.1I'm sure; but I guess to hunt up a
pair of stockings. Oh see, what a. beautiful esh colour
hers are; and the shoes too, are of a holy ,Pern." This
miserable pun wasfollowed y a derisive laugh from both
of them.
They waited a moment in expectation of an answer to
their taunts, but as none eame, they renewed their giving
talk  and,, moving still 'closer  towards their victim,
endeavored to push her off the curb-stone into the gutter;

-


20           LIZZIb wEsT;

and would have succeeded had she not held on with her
disengaged hand -toan awning-post, near which they were
standing. They then tried to tread upon her toes peeping
through her shoes, and she with difculty preventedtem;
for, her earnest and touching supplication of "lease-
don't!" fell upon deaf ears.
It was' over-fed and: warma-clothed vulgarity ,spitting-
out its" venom ,upon the- powerless--a sight sad and
pitiable-yet,under many different guises, alas! how often-
to be seen.
The voices of the children rose louder and louder, and'
an' unusually earnest ""Ohlease don't!" reached the
ears of the father, who turning , round, instinctively
comprehended at a glaice, halfdrunk as he was, the
ignominious position' of his child. A  flush of shame'
spread over his face' as he walked unsteadily towards her,
and taking her by the hand he led her away. A group of
other "children, boys and girls,-of .the Maria Jane and
Angelina genus,-had already gathered around, and amid:
their united gibes and jeers the drunken father and
miserable child proceeded some distance further down the
street until a passing -showman, with a monkey and a
violin, arrested the, attention of the vicious juveniles, and
the pair were permitted to go unmolested, on their way.
Along, down the ,Pasyunk 'Road' they walked some'
distance, and then turned into'-a miserable looking cross-
street. After travelling it nearly the length of a square
they u6e to    narrow  tuubl-down-srt of a court,
which' they entered, ad stopping at"its further end,
went-i at .An entryway and' clamaberedup asteep ricketty

THE PRIiTT-ER'9:DATEGHTER.               21
pair of stairs - to the garret. landiig-place, where the
man. fumbled through his pockets.for the key of the door,
whioh was looked.,
Nor iril;norianyhad' spoken one word to each other-;
silently and in shame they had walked hand in hand to
their -home. "PAther," at length she said, rousing her
faculties with an efrtyou -know I took,,the k3y this
morning, and I was to call for you after I had rsold my
nimatches -and things ;" at the same time producing from
the original large pocket of her dress the door-key ; and
unlocking it, they went into the room'together.
The place was, as the:girl had left it 'in: the morning,
tidyed up for the. day, and, was lighted by, one dormer
window. It was altogether very poor*looking. A small
sheet-iron stove, stood in that part. where the -ceiling was
the highest, just under the mid-gable- of the roof, and the
stovepipe holeopened directly into the chimney.
She busily bestirred herself and soon lighted a fire in
the stove and on its top set soinewater-'in a.vessel to heat
which she poured: out from a bucket-full that. stood in a
corner.  The more steadily she worked the better phe
appeared to feel. The" man sate down upon a chair which
had no back and leaning forward hid his face in his hands;
but as he felt the warmth of the fire he; stretched them out
towards the stove ,to warm   them, stealing a glance
occasionally at his child.  The wretched fellow  was
sobering.
At length, after.she hgd made a cup of tea. in which
were neither sugar nor mIk, she approached him gently
and said: "Father please drink this. It will make you


THE P I  f t't  DGHTE'R'V4 T En.  23

better;:laying at:the .same ime her hand softly upon
his arm. Their eyes met-and, as they looked long and
wistfully at each other, tears filled themand the words:
"My poor child A and "h father I" felrom. their
lips.d
Come here, poor little onel" he said; and she, came
and' croudhed down on the bare floors her headsresting on
his knees,-and began to sob as if her heart would break;
andhe,with his shaky handasmoothed her brown curly
hair and'tried to soothe her weeping. He uttered words
of affection every,,gow and then, tears coursigg down his
cheeks-drunkards are givento. crying-but the child's,
breast headed onsurestrainedly for the pent up feelings
must sometimeshave a vent.
"YTur father loves dearly his, por motherless child;"
he said, after- some time had elapsed, and the words almost
choking him "no matter how little it may seem that he'
does."
She looked up into hisce and wiping her eyes with
the sleeve'of her dress, said in a wiper, Father do talk
to me aboit mother. Tell me afl you can remember; it will
do me more goodthan any thing else i" and her face sunk
again downuponhi knees and the sobs succeeded each
thei after gradually longer intervals.
There w a silence on his part of several, minutes,
but afe6 clearinghis throat two or three times, in a husky
tone, he said
" My itt1 Lnizie' must iot -ease t lore' her
when he tell  1he 1. She iis the onfone inthe world
now that reallyeares for; him. All hisfriends, that are

not dead, hIefershlaen im and he'i  poor miserable
Idrul  kd!4
She,-caghit hold of oue of his hands and kissing it
ferVently, heldon to it, andpillowed herface nih, until
it was wet with her 4 ars
Tlof sat the4, talking, forseve al hours-twilight
came oiad darkss unceeded -ad the fathertold
to the woman-child, as she'hd wishedhito do, in a
broken and disjointed nar-tive'the -hot ofIthehistory of
himself anid her other. afch 'tht"he related he
already ekne, butthef     ee numerous detAils, yhich
teflected most upon himselI, thafshe' now-heard for the
first tine. h"lhe fountains of"both their 'soktewful hearts
weie   pened as the'recital proceeded, and  although the
waters that were stirred, by the sga rememrannees were
like those of 'Marah ;-L  - still that fathom and thild
afterwards felt nearer to each other 'than theyhad ever
done before.
Mr. West was a printer -btrad  He hadhsome
seveiteen hundred dollars that he had nherited - his
parnt8' both ied whe ihe was a -boy -f4abut ixte-
started a newspaperand   h iintifi office in a tha&amp; frontier
town. Itwa    ls the'he caie aunaied with hiswife,
Lucy Ashonihe beauty af the 'illagend the "chool-
.master's only child, and sh&amp;'had aly in life lst her
moither. 6loesholightlypi' Onthiem'on hel6 w Adling-
day: The paper was inreiny in its circulation, and
with economy ani prd61c for "a support, and, pi'oerly
managed,'  iigh  become th micleus oa foiuite. As

22

,J I I ZZIE, WESTI

23

11 1


THE PRINTER'S DAUGHTER.  25.

-2-4            LJThZIE 'M ,,D'ST0;

printr-of..the tOwn and editor .of apapgr the young
husband was regarded as a man of important in the
settlement ; besides he was intelligent and kind-hearted.
Lsucy West was ashappy abride as many another whose
fate has turned out as sadly as her own.
The irst blothat came to them after her bridal was
t4xdearthof. er fher:    then   .heir first child a boy,
of two years old,died. Their grayes are in that far-off
western itygehurehyard on tje sloping side .of a green
hl. It was one nights a few  eeks after the, death of
the little oy, that Mr. Westwas induced by two of his
friends, rich men and irp 4rtant pa1rgns, to go out with
them, on sone election business; and, after midnight, they
brought hiin.to his home stupidly drunk ! Ever from that
hour. a baleful star threw its malignant rays over their
pathway.: No tears could quench it, and it at last drank
pd-ropafter drop, the life blood of,!the patient, suffering
wife. Property, friends; respect of townsfolk, all gradually
disappeared. She followehim aown, down into- ever
lower depth of degradation. From town to town, and city
to city, theywandered; and she was the ministering angel
who.wasever ready to pity, and ,to. hope that, each new
falling away wouldJbe the last. Their little girl Lizzie was
only one .year old when they left the town where the mother
had been once so happy a bride.
Mr. West was a rapid and correct compositor, 'and
time and again with his intellectual ability, h might have
risenhigher'In the soial scale than he had ever been before,
but for the demon of strong. drink, It b'o'nd him- as
strongly as the Python encircled-the old priest in ancient

Grecian story, and the poisonousbreathof, histemptation
benuibed its victim so that his struggles became feebler
andstill more feeble.
The rinducements to drink about a printig-office are
frequent, and to a lover of it almost, overpowering  The
craft are'. toa fault. generous with money, and are
exceedingly courteous and gentlemanly in theirintercourse
with each other. In the offices where, he was employed he
was often pressed to indulge irn drinks to which -he- was
treated, and then, after the taste was once imbibed, there
was no; stay until his. " spree " was out.
It was about two years before the present time that
Mrs. West, -heart-broken, died;' and the expenses of her
funeral were paid, and willingly too- by the combined
contributions of the journeymen printers of the city,"who
turned out in a body to pay the last token of respect to one
who -was generally known among them as the true-hearted
wife of their drunken brother-workman.
Lizzie's childhoodJad bgn darkened by sorrow and
straitened circumstances.  The cloud was scarcely ever
lifted up.,In funereal gloom it had shut.in, her youth-time
amid its dark enfoldings.  No wonder the child was
premature, and that a careworn look was deeply defined
upon her little face which, had it but worn the joyous
expression usual in. childhood, wogld have been beautiful
as the realization of a "poet's dream."  Nowi that her dear
mother was gone, still deeper settled the darkness around
her;- and she had to standias much so as a child could, in
that dear mother's place to her erring father.
She earned what she could by selling matches, tapes


126

'iZZ If WEST;.

tins and needlesaid anchliike sallIVmerchandisowhich
he carried.around    a basket; bebiies hu badg for
their support whatever she could ,getof hr beifther's
arnings--orlIthotgh bihabit-had by this time very
much deteriorated his ability as a workman, yetAkind-
hearted Joe West" was helped by hisbrotherhood to many
a pwyg eb.   1e "*lbbed " forikhsewho wanted to get
oUf for a few days,-ad.manage  earn something almost
every week, which be wasalwaya     killing to give,.her,
provided headid riot  st, after he was paid off, wander into
a rum shop---for out of  ehsuchatiger's den he seldom came
with any money in his pockets but his earnings were
dwindling intQ less and, still less and things  yere now
very dark before the--hia hands grew more unsteady
every month, andhe cold scarcely pick up the type and
place it in the composing stick unless it was of a very large,
size. His sight toahad become affected, and his eyes
watered so much whenshestried to read his copy that he
could scarcely seenthe.let* .  bom, with scarcely a
glimmer of light, hUngover their Ature hey sat in that
gtarrt-room bowed down with errow-oh, "the wages of
sin 3  irohard I
Thegirl scarcelydared t hope much from her father's
reiterated promises of entire abstinencein future;. still
therewas some comfort in his longing .to amend, and as
the .moonbegan to shed a faint lightgrowing brighter, into
the dorme tindow,and hergrief 8was all spentshe arose
from her sea~a the foor repieished terei,,and-,by the
light of a tallowwandle prepared thei frugal supper, for
which neither hadlmuch appetite.

I

THE PRIWTERm'S DAUGHTER.

27

That.. over, she sat down to her sewing which-was a shirt
for her father; aihd he crept into bed and fu  a l-ngfwhile
.watched her thin, sweet face, untiLat lengthhe fell aleep.
She sewed on, and on -but her thoughts were not .upon
the garment in her. hands,-she was- treasuring i  all
that she had heard that was new to her about:her mo er.
The miser Iovesto gloatover his yellow gol  ndthe
chink of coins music in his- ears,'aye. andit hushea into
dormant sleep all the finer,-nobler impulsesof: his hea*--
but no miser ever loved gold as she did the, memory ofher
dead mother; each'sgeparaht instance of ,her devoted love
was a pearl of priceless value in the child's Casket of the
Past, and every new knowledge of her self-sacrifice was as
if she heard the harping of some angel lyre encouraging
her in the mission of duty to the father left behind.
The remembrance forcibly returned to her mind as she
sat there in the silence-interrupted only by the deep
breathing of her father-of that afternoon, the last time,
that her mother ever went ou when they two took some
sewing that was finished to a lady's house,and upon their
return her mother would stop in at an .ice-cream saloon,
and, purchasing a single saucersat with her at the marble
table in the grand-looking room and there, with her face
all lit up with unutterable love,fed her out of the silver
spoon, with mouthful after mouthful of the cool delicious
cream, and would not take one particle of it herself-
.although she begged her hard to do so. All the scene came
back so vividly before her that she felt as if it was again a
reality; that her mother was now very near her and her
arms almost around her.


THE PRINTER'S DAUGHTER.

The clock in the State House steeple struck twelve.-
She put out the light, kneeled down beside the hard, small
bed onthe other side of the room  from ,where her, father
slept, and, prayed asi she -had been- taught to the ever;
watchful God above, and then, after. undi'essing, crept into
herbed.- But ere that child closed her eyes in sleep, her
evening hymn sounded out on the midnight. hour, in a soft
silver-toned young voice of song, and the words taught her
byher another were those familiar to most of the households
of our present time:
"Fatherhigh in eavenhear me;
Blessthy little onetornight;
Thrq1g1g the darkness be thou near me,
Watch my sleep till morning light."

PART SECOND
0 U T Of ONE'S 'TE EN S YET SOMIWNA T
R E T RiSPECT Un~
TEN years--a'long period in &amp; human lifehas passed
since the time when was introduced to our readers the
drunkard-father and the- care-tricken, child. That child
had grown into woman's years. The father was -still a
victim to his vice.
There had been during this interval frequent temporary
lulls of reformation in the man's, dissipation... ut the
monster in his bosom still lived on,,and was warmed again
and again into new lifeand then, with-,erectedfCrest and
forked - tongue re-asserted its fiend-like ,supremacy. He
was weaker far, mentally, morally and. physically, than
would be ordinarily produced by ten years' wear and tear
in this world of ours:--his hair was .now almost all white
and his,-face was plowed: with deep furrows  His whole
physique was animalized, and his mouth especially had
become Silenus-like in its expression, besides his beard was
nearly; always in a. neglectedstate :-sad indeed, were
the changes that ten years had wrought upon Joseph West,

28              Ll Z Z I E., WE 8 7,;


30.           LIZZIE WEST;

and for the most part they were the effects of indulgence
in his degrading vice.
He had not for a long time been able to work at
his trade; but was employed occasionally at odd services,
about a few of the printing-ofces--sometimes perform-
ing the duties of roller-boy  and  oing upon errands.
He also folded- newspaeis, andabld them in the
streets. He seemed, to the exiting race of journeymen
printers, an old patriarch of the craft-and most of them,
likehen  d  bheth,twerekiidly disposed toover over
the frailties of the  pitelyeyaiva old man.
For years hie had not brought to his daughter any
monef t   aid "'theI home ubpArt  All he received was
expendedm tgratifyM hinssatae r&amp;vig for drink-or
rather td procure its IlAdlig effets and, although the
amount WaS simal, it,n-with the "treats" and alas! those
numerous opportunities to obtain liquor which.-:eew to be
by som eden' influence always     eating to tempt
inebriates,--briabledhifm to keeptolerably drunk nearly all
the time
The chain of years l\a4 drggd along wearily with
the girl, fii              6 she now  td on the threho1d of woman-
hood with aTheartneired for ary trial- that: might come.
Yet her life had -not been entirely free iom-. comfort.
Flowers are strown beside every pathway; and along hers,
stony as- ifwas, they :bloomed and shed swet fragrance
which was i"ot all of earth ; to heri spirittial sense were
wafted breezes from the HeavenlyiHlls celestial odours
that' were baby withinvigorating moral purpose. Ko
human being has evek trodden resolutely the path of

1(

As she stood, still hesitating in the street, the door
)f the Saloon opened, and three young men dressed in the
then  tip of the mode," came out. They were all in some
degree intoxicated'" Page 39.


duty but has been -che-ered  with a sense of conscious right-
doing ; and no -matter how painful maybe:the bearing of
the Cross it is the dtty'of any one to cari-y, still, if it is
bornewith a willing spirit the lnond flowers will bud
and blossom  all around its edges, once so sharp aid
piercing.
She had niet with much of kindaess and sympathy.
The old companions of -her father-brethren of the craft-
all knew of her patient endurance Andworth, and had so
exerted themsel res that she was never without emiployment
in the business of diessbiaking which she now, followed.
The ladies for whoan she,-worked frequently became
interested in and oftentimes efleiently assisted her in,
many ways ; and the noble 'fIlial heroism which her life
displayed reflected back upon theme an influence for good,,
which now and 'then came -to the :girl's knowledge, causing
her cheeks to glow and her heart to beat with gratitude.
Their home ;wasremoved from where we left them.
They now occupied the third story of a house- in: a clean!
though humble street, with the privilege of " Miss West"
seeing visitors on business in the front parlour on the first
floor, and the advantage of having placed on the window"
shutter a lettered sign with her name, and appended.
thereto "Fashionable -Dress Maker."  There were three
rooms on their third floor. One large one back,in which.
they lived and ate; and two smaller onefin front-which
gave a chamber, for herself whte' she in warm weather
sewed, and the- other was a sleeping room for her father,.
in which the old , an when incapacitated for going out,
remained until he became sober.
2

THE PRINTER's DAUGHTER.  35

* 35

it


Of all thedutiest  devolved upon the daughter the
sternest by farmaS thwging out to seeker father at night-
time, after She became alarMnd on ecouxgt of his prolonged
absence, at.the different drinking rooms he frequented.
Lizzie West from &amp; child knew all these places well, and
her visits were looked upon with almost as much dread by
the dealers inliquid poisdn as $he theselWfelt dislike in
making them. Virtue and vice hive mutually repellant
force, which "is fver flt, although the, cause may not
always be' underitood.
The, anxious face of the sad-ooking child, and now
the troubled lc0k of themature girl,as the question was
askedwith temnbling lipsandin a wistfuitone : "Is father
here to night ?"-4el1 vith a'ehilling influence upon the
oies of 'thos&amp; Withift the sounds of her voice-and many
another fatherashe heheard it, 'with the cup just lifted to his
lips sparkling in the light, felt that an adder had uncoiled
witbh its ruby depths andiwas striking at his heart.
She had never but once been exposed 'to insult when
-upon her midnight quest, and thathad occurred some three
years before the present tifne. It was in autumn weather..
She had been away all day sewing at customer's house
.and had returned home just aftei dusk.The lady had
always manifested great kindness, and after paying her off.
mhade her a present of a 'vryo pretty, genteel, but inexpenai
sive' boiiet,'which she much needed, and a shawl suiitable
for the season  'They were both -vbry becoming, and , as
with 'thefnsnhe bade the kind giver adieu, and. the door
dosed afterhe', the'Worthy womanwith a sigh, said to
herself:-"-What a pity that so beautiful a girl should be

LIZZIE WEST.

86^ .-

porand s eu   tetedI--Shedaited supparthat she had
spared forer fatheruntil ninethena ten o'elock, and
when another half-hour passed away and he didkhfl not cone
sheafelt that she niust go out, all fearful she was, and
hunt' up the poerold nian.
She made the round of all his haunts, save one, and
received for answer-" He was' e  -h-re ner had they
seen him that evening."  To thistatiU n Wisited, saloon she
had always felt the strongest repugrance; and invariably
left it' for thelast tovisit.- It however a place towhich
he didn't frequently resort a' the prohab4.y was that
visually he could be foundelsewhere,
To this "GinPalace," for such it really was, she now
forced herself to direct her steps. It was Iong  after eleven
o'clock and a bright moon was shining, 'She went up along
Third S teet to  atherinerand after walking a short distance
further on, waited a moment before she could, summon
courage to enter its door.
It is, perhaps, one of the most gorgeous in its "fittings
up" of any of the nnUmerous drinking establishments in
Philadelphia,'and consists of a suite of- rooms/ the walls of
which are, lined with paintings and ,prints,, many of them
in massive gilt frames and richly coloured,-spMze of them
of classic pretensiansbut nearly all voluptuo s and sensu-
alizing. Statues stand herr and, there many of them
beautiful, yet the marked pecUliarity ofthe collection is the
nudenbss of the figures," '
There are no diowers about !-theebeauiful daughters
of the earth and rain andvsunshine find here no congenial
atmosphere ;-the perfume of their breath would call up

TH I E PRIIRn'S- D AGH TER.  37

37


too many associations of home, and wouldibee out of place.
Instead, there are placed on the counters several immense
Chinese Porcelain 'punch-bowls alwaysfilled with .that
tempting beverage ; and cigars of, the choicest brands, and
variety are exposed for sale. The air is heavy with their
stifling redolence.
Gas chandeliers with glass pendants and shades, hang
all around the rooms,' and the bars are fitted' up- with
chrystal-glass decanters and goblets, that flash back'
prismnatic colours. The ,hairs are cushioned; and there
are sofas stuffed luxuriously, on which fashionably dressed
young men loll and, with 'straws in their, mouths and
newspapers in their hands, suck up iced drinks of a ruby
colour brought upon silver-waitets and set beside them on
mtbk.topped tables. Checkerboards and, dice, and some
sets of chess"men lay about; and there comes from the
inner rooms the sound of playing -shuffle-board, and the
click of struck billiard balls knocking together :as, they
roll across 'the tables. ^Tis said too there 'are rooms, -the
entrances to which are private, where cards are .played
for large 'sums; and' it ;i sometimes, surmised that the
packs used are 'those- known to the profession as "ad-
vantage" backed.
There is here, also, a. collection of rare coins very
valuable, and a museum: which'contains cases of horrid-
cuiositiies. lPlaster' casts sof heads of murderers,, and' some
of their skulls; alongside of which are displayed. fearful
instrumentsntheenes;actually usedin taking away God's'
breath-out bf themduths of his.creatures! Strange phantasy

of fascination and mark of depravity ;o- desire to gloat
over such evidences of humAn wickedness.
As she stood, still hesitating in'the street the door of
the saloon opened, 'and three young men'dressed in'the then
"tip of the m- node," cane out. They were all in some
degree intoxicated. Heavy watch-chains hung over their
waistcoats, their brilliant breast-pins glittered in the moon-
shine, and upon the little finger of the right hand of each
was worn a huge signet ring. Their breaths were hot with
the smell of liquor; and the moral sese within then was so
clouded by its influence that they were' in a fit state to
perpetrate'any outrage to which they might be tempted.
All of true manliness in their nature was nearly extin-
guished; The girl cowered back into the protecting shadow
of a house-alley, and boped they wouldhot perceive her.
In this the poor trembling creature Wa 'however disap-
pointed.' One of the trio had observed the flutteringg 'of a
light coloured dressas she retreated up the 'lley, and,
with 'a bacchanalian shout rushed tovardsits entrance,
followed by his two companions. He buried her 'closely
to its extremeeind, where the gates of to adjoinin yards
forined half diamond or obtuse angle; *here he 'aught
hold of her, and 'putting his arms around 'her waist
drew her towards him and'attempted'to kiss her. The
disagreeable fumes of liquor and tobacco singled, swept
over her face. Thoroughly alarmed she   truggled after
some efforts from hini and pressing heavily against one of
the gates it openedt-he latch had been left withdrawn-
but he caught hold of her arm, following her, as Ahe -sought
refuge, into the yard.'

THE PRINTER' DAUGHTER.   3

38

LIZZIE WZST,*

39


40             LIZZIE W-EST;.

There was heard the slight ttling of  ain, and in
the next moment,  growl folldwedby o hriek of terror
from the man-!-.reader, doe he deserve the name ?-told
that a large terriedog had him by the leg nd, after biting
him, was dragging at im t, get at his throat. The girl
had stepped beyond, and was now further off the dog. than
the length of his haii.' The gallant reared lusty! and
the dog tearing and growling,-brutes of that species bark
but little--was getting every moment nearer the struggling
man's, throat. The two companions at the alley's mouth,
who, but a moment before, were saying. to eachother as
though they were contradidr-an4, using oaths with
which I will not pollute my page-all spoken between
hicupis and in tones so thick that they were scarcely intel-
ligible :-"Let ,harl-ey have fair play-e !"-now hallooed
as loud as their lugs would lt them fyr a police-man;
and the clamor became considerabe
A night cpp, with an bld man'shead inside of it, was
poked out othe window juet .o.y whre the, dog-house
stood, and, ino very, agreeable tone the question was.
asked "W4t6's the matter now ?"-ad; "Help1oh help!
your 'dog will kill me.!" was the pry from :th bitten man
beneath. "Down Jerry--letgo yoirascal-let go!" and
the owner, of the animal, pulling on, apairofi pantaloons
ran lasgily down stairs unbolted the door, and reiterated
his COmmandto the dog that,with glaring eyes and glisten-
ing teethwas unwilling to. relinquish his hold. Still
hallooing to the' dog and' beating him ofthe owner
dragged the wounded AMan away from bhe chain's reach,
and turning, for the first time, caught sight of the girl.-

THE PRINTERS DAUGHTER.                41
"Ah! so here is a woman in the caseisthereI! he said:
and approaching nearer looked into the frightened counte-
nance which he instantly recognized; and.seeming ina
.moment:te odmprehend the whole ,ase in a softened tone
asked;.-" Poor child, is that you ?Could they not have
letyou alone ?" andeputting his hand upto his bald fore-
headafter a short pauseesumed  -" step inthe house;
and rest in the back room. I will open thewindowshutter
and there will be light to see, and if;youwish I will go into
the saloon and ask ifyour father is them?forI suppose
that iswhat you want:to know"    ,
Re went up to the man who was sitting, writhing with
pain, on the back-doorsteps,-andfsaid  t'You scoundrel!
it is well for you that I did 'nt know -whAt you had been
doing, or I should have let the dog and you 'fight it out
yourselves. You have gotten~ less than you deserve. Get
of my steps and out of my yard, as quick as you can 1"
"But keep the dog off, wo'nt you, as I go by the
kennel ?" said the cratendfellow, as he compressed with his
two hands the wounded limb.
"Yes, 1111 keep the dog 'off your worthless body. I
think he is a far better fellow than youare!" Was theeply,
as he grasped him-by-the collar, raised himh to his feet,
and, still retaining 'his hold; walked him to the gate.
The athletic old man waxed 'more and, note savage
duringthe short walank',nd-said as he pushed open the
gate : "If I had'nt promised, I 'd throw you at the dog
again 1 aBut, remetber-.iiow you are let off this Itime-
my-big-bug young ian, never insult a human angel'aghin
as long as you live:" and he relieved his feelings by


d2L I Z Z            .,W a ST*;
shaking huix fiercelyfor a few seconds ;- andthen .pushed
him straight up- against the opposite gate, slamming. and
bolting hisown lIhifface.
He   l lecLJerry-ut of his box, into which the animal
had sullenly retired an&amp;patted him on the head, calling
him. all sorts of coaxing names. The ferocious beast was
thus cajoled into 'a4 amiable mood, and seemed, perfectly
satisfied with the title of 'ne fellow" his master ,gave,
him. His ~owner's feelings in so doing appeared to
have found somesort ofW a safety.valve for, when he
came into the house, his manner to theigirl was tender as
a.oman's-and -e said: "Now, I'll see if Mr. .West is
innext door, and,. if he is I will bring him out and we will
walk hqme with ypu."
"You are very kind indeed.   Heaven bless you I"
was all the girl could say in reply; and she laid her tired
head on a table, and in silence wiped the tears from her.,
face.
He left her to get his hat and coat; and ashe went up
stairs he said softly, to himself :-" How much she looks:
to night like her mother. Poor ,Lucy! I-'d have made her
life easier than she had it. But-she is at; rest now, and
happy. Thank God!", A tear gutterel down a furrow in,
his, face, and as the ,moonlight silverd it-for he had
approached the windowof the chamber-a halo of glory
emanated from the little drop, ere it fell and was lost.
forever.,
The front   -oor shut-to with a bangas he closed and.
loke4 it afterhim wl en he: went out ,and the girl heard,

TIHE PR I0tTR'N   s beAjGHTEuR.         d4
the groupat the ally"Is entranee ta        gih  t they
said ndstimtly&amp;amne to her ears4''
The two valorous polreen-surm.ed W       erbs
of the companns ofithe' bittme.inhae--iti ei6  d to
venture up-tz ellef'lnto the y&amp;d ff4reynatnef
4.ld Brown's"Ifiekdogwaswde       Wadltle neighba
hood ; but thesApeedfappearane4.f OU- rhi   wcame
limping out of its dakess, gavthea thesppatunitgtoe
retunMe their usual br-aggadodair. in soft tosr, itga
patroniing man4erfademor efete       by layig  their
hands gently on the shoutdfts of the yoUngxnen-they
advised them: "T6ago home gaietly now  and get a good
night's sleep."'
Charley was unable. to walk anydistance. The dog
had sunk his fangs deep ithete leshyparts ohiskg and
had dreadfullyusdatohed as well A bittend bli. One of ath
police officers proposed getting a carriage for them, and
after head started, A the rouS" with'a very rueful face,
assisted by the -oihers, mAnAge4 to reach aOirelp on
which he sat down ;'and his companions with'the poliem~ian
stood near-,bycomforting -hinias theyfbest did ot even
the star shining "uponthem from that funetionarys coat:
could add much of digy to the appearaneeof the eresto
fallen young baehaias.
It was notlong before tie cariagearived, and the
trio got iuto it-Charleymoaning aa they fixed him as
comfortably as they could-enV the back seat, with his  leg
resting on the ono beforehim:bat before the pary
started off they-'made,, present of' a fidollar-biIl to their
friends, the cityofleers, to divide between them


44LIZZE  WEST;

Mr. BI-own about the same timoreturned from his
visit to the saloon and with himMr. eatnmuch inebriated
but still able towalk  It was with ca look of sorrow that
the former g  e4outhe  an that had beenyears before
his succesaf  rivl in gining the heart and hand of Lucy
Ashton. lie had never married, nd in his memory she
was enshrined in perpetual youth-she was to him, always-
the maiden with sunny hair and starry eyes.. He left the
neighbourhood- of the village shortly after Mr. West's
mar-iage and his farni' lay all neglected afterwards, for
years an eyesore to the thrifty settlers all around. . He
struck out further intothe wilderness, for a home, and
became a hunter and a trapper of considerable notoriety.
When folks from the States trod alongside the pioneer's
path the only question be appeared at all interested in
Asking, was -If tay knew a printer, Joseph West, and
What could they tell him about his family?"
It is wonderfalthe ways in which information of the
"whereabouts" of one particular 'individual -is spread
abroaa... There are, as it were, thousands of unseen electric
wires surrounding eaeh uo of us that telegraph far and
wide td our acquaintance all about us; and thus, away far
o&amp;t in unbroken prarie lands, strange as it may seem,,and
again amid the stillness of primeval forests, Mr.'Brown
heard at intervals -Nomething of the Wests. But all he
heard was very sad    And oftentimes did Mis, West
receive fronirthe:Post-office letters,which contained small
sums of noneywith no writinginside of them, bearing
the post-ma-ksf places she did not know,on the extreme
verge of immigration.   They 'generally came just; when

44

THE PRINTER 'S DAUGHTER.

45

some imperative exigency seemed most desperate-and the
faith of the woman, whose heart was breaking, looked upon
,  them as "sent from God'.  So indeed they were, for it was
His power that kept ever flowing in the hear-t of the disap-
pointed man, the "'well spring" of his early loveand made
it gush a healthful stream;-for in itA mirrored surface were
pietured onlyr pleasant scenes of early life to cheer his
lonely lot, and along its sides amid leaves of perennial
greenness,looked out violets and Forget Me Nots--a bunch
of which the young girl had given him one summer-night
long ago!-and ever after these flowers were to him but
semblances of Lucy Ashton's sweet blue eyes.
Lucy was born in the village where Daniel Brown
lived; and 'as far back as she could remember. he was
always "a grown up young man." She had ever regarded
him as one of her kindest and best friends, and felt towards
him as a sister to an older brother. A strong friendship
grew with her growth on her part towards him, and that
afternoon she told him, all blushing and in whispers, in the
old woods in which they oftentimes walked-where the
trees seemed giants sprung up out of the. earth to bow
their tall green heads in worship when veiled by the storm-
cloud, or to whisper praises in low rustling tones as zephyrs
swept among their canopy of leaves-of her intended
marriage with Joseph West, the handsome intelligent
young printer, she could not understand the reason of the
'sudden paleness and the pained-look which so changed the
expression of W4 kind, honest face. She never knew that
on that day, and there, an arrow sank into his heart the


46           -   LIZZIE    WEST;
pain of whichcould only be assuaged by thoughts of her
own innocent loveliness*
The man, at length, determined to return and look
again upon the face that to hia had been as a dream of
heaven 1-a weary interval of years had gone by since he had
last heard of the printed's family ;-and he turned his foot-
steps eastward. When he reached Philadelphia Mrs. West
had long been buried. The hunter visited the home of the,
girl and her father, and he thought his heart would rise up
in his throat and choke him when he saw its destitution and
wretchedness. He resolved at once for the mother's sake,
to watch over her child as long as he lived; and, collecting.
some small means togetherihe opened a grocery store in
that city. So guileless had his long communion with
Nature made him, that he was unfitted to compete with the
craft and business-cunning of othersi- the trade, and the
profits of his business,,hard, as he worked at it, scarcely
yielded him a support.., His great object however was
attained, he saw- that sdbe never wanted. Basket,, after
basket-full, of necessary.articles, was, time and again, left
at Mr. West's; and when remonstrated with, he always
told "his child Lizie,"---for thus would he now call
her, that "there was a long unsettled account against him
between her mother and himself which he feared he never
could pay ; and that he was only trying to 'keep down
the interest." Lizzie believed this to be some sort of a kind
snbtezuge, and the old man grew into her heart a kindly
object to venerate and love.
The three were -now ready to start. $. West walked
in the middle with his arm inserted-within Mr. thrown's,

TIE PRINTER'S DAUGHTER.                  47
and his-daughter stationed herself on the 'other side -ready
to render assistance in getting her father along  The streets
were almost deserted. They soon passed into Pine Street
and walked.along it uotil they came to Ninth, up he west-
side of which ,they turned. The point they wished to
reach was a court running alongside of St. ephen's church
in Tenth Street below Market. None of them seemed
disposed to talk, The Walnut Street Theatre was out, and
Miss West felt an inward gratulation that they would not
be exposed to the rude gaze of its frequenters. -Before she
.was aware of it, however,-they were mixed up with a crowd
hanging around the deor of the splendid mansion on the
corner of Chestnut and Ninth Streets.
It was the evening of a magnificent fete. The line
of carriages extended some distance up -Chestnut Street on
both sides of the way. As some of the guests were now
going home,a glimpse of them was afforded to the bystanders
as they came -down the steps and got into their carriages.
Th6 two woIld immediately have crossed over to the other
side of the street, and thus have gotten out of the crowd,
but Mr. West in an obstinate tone, said: 'dHe would 'nt
budge until he had seen some of the nobs go home!" He.
was deaf to their entreaties and declared again,in a louder
voice, hi aetermination  To avoid an altercation, and as
the IeAt of two evils,they thought it best to -gratify him ;
and turning the coru&amp;,of Ninth Street they-stopped along-
side the steps leading from the -house.
-The front-door stood open, and the vestibule was
billiatily lighted. A servant standing on the steps as
they came up, called out in a loud voice for "General Pa-

0


48

delford's carriage !" Asplendid bquipage immediately t Auck
out of the line aid- drove up ;t the marble stone, jus in
front of the house. A footman got down fron behind and
opening its door let down the steps. The inner door of
the hall, swun  open at the same time, and a group, two
ladies with shawls i their hands attended by a gentleman,
,stepped onto the vestibule.
One of the ladies was elderly, and her stately form not
yet decrepid with age, was robed in black sati and lace.
On her*head was a cap of snowy whiteness with a trimmig
of light wavy feather, and her silver hair, i a few natural
curls, shaded her sweet venerable face. The other was
young, and dressed in pink tarleton of Maany skirts' which
floated All around herm rosy haziness. In her hair was a
wreath of whiteIoses, and a cross. of diamonds rested on
her breast. Eer hair and eyes were dark, an  e flash of
the diamonds was not brighter than that ef her brilliant
eyes.
The young lady discovering she had forgotten her
boquette turned to the gentleman and said,; Oh, Mr .Ran-
gIolph, please go back and get my flowers. They are in the
ladies' dressing-room. I remember laying them on the
toflette-table. YozUr mother and myself will wait here
until you return." He bowed and started on his commission;
then, turning to her companion, she continued:-" Per-
mi t-  o ,, i         r. .h.l..T
mit memadampto assist you with your shawl. The air is
cooler here than in the crowded rooms we haveleft: and
she- folded the wrapping carefully around the old lady.
r owhbeko                       to the
Throwing,*her owrt_ *or her, shoulders,, andbeec nmnge

LIZZIE WEST;

footman who approached her, she came out and stood upon
the steps,
She glanced haughtily at the crowd on the pavement
ranged on each side of the door,untilher eyes rested upon
Miss West and her father; and, as if by-sometalismanic
spell, the gaze of the two girls rivetted, ead upon theother.
Then, from the dim lapse ofeseven years arose vividly to
both, the memory of another.scene,, A gtrr side-a far
,more humble neighborhbod---amserablelittle match-girl
taunted by ,twb other girls with her wretehedness and
poverty, and holding on to an awning-post for support and
defence ;--allcameback aga. It was the Angehaa of our
earlier acquaintance that now stood so near, and yet so. far
off, our fair heroine.
Mrs. Randolph also had been attracted by the sight of
the girl standing aon the motley group, and she sighed in
her inmost heart over the fate of the poor street-walker ;-
"And she is so beautiful! '-Theamoonlight fell upon her
pure angel face and lighted it up  ith almost a celestial
radiance. The blue shawl, andlig    straw-bonnet wth
little delicate flowers--the presents o  few hours before
-gracefully harmonized with the sweet beauy of her
countenance.
The inner door again opened-and the young man
with the boquette came out into the vestibule,,and offering
his arm to his mother    coached Miiss Pa4elford to escort
themto the carriage . He was tall and, of ne proportions,and
upon his unclouded face Hope sat sni*hg, and also therein
fair compaionsip were staged high honor,xesolvend n-
tegrity. His gaze, too, was- arrested by theappearance of the
girl, and When his eyes met hers the cap which 'covered his

THE PRINTER'S DAUGHTER.  49

49


8hedark carls we     p tufll  moedganddbowing low,
he said:-" Good evening, Miss West. Ihope youatr well
to night."
Hade ~pistol shot gon folote totbitlsears the ladies
satrptind. A atipess&amp;l, ethhispeodse" Theodore t "a-
fellt froithe 1iptif the %Wahter  wtis heard by Miss
We&amp; %hotus f she wbuid sink into the earth, fet its
t~i~ lnte he% eiiMiv d~iey tthe idi'k Miis Padel
ford sd4 nthin but &amp;n yIqf e ldess Althtugh-hetr eins,
afid th1i Ahtwt gaped robrbreath.
fte he h~nd   s   the      1V&amp;ui  setoed, he said
hurriedly:  EBeu   ~iedne fImneritAid I  11 be ba k
-and leaving them, he approached where ov6r pntt stood,
aide   &amp; khvd"   he i : AW you elone Wth your
father -" at the shmetime mnkinalutation of recgn.
tionf t6-theold man, i h ich sympafly for the daughter
nojthank yot.   t   e *t~o  de&amp;  kind, feidMr.  rown,
with mi  .--ai ,she glanced towards the hale 61ixan
e~ eyes a_4 tho6    Wyng lhtndolph, ith ai admir-
i gaze. Their iandesiut'anrbedywere extendedl.-.
and, in that first shake, they felt their hearts go out towards
eadli other  Nob nightlntidi; 6     said the young
Apon1tahid \VI~edth IMbod h jdumped int the carriage,
whioi ~idd    iientesV~ ~Mtethg o  toWarras the far
w      dt     dy          i thit it a anxious, beating
head   as  w   any~ h eIhroa 4hut tod around the
prod do    alfr roWhich They 'hd   st iden.
6 Edelfod,"The father of Angelina, had

-Z Zil E,-- W 2 9 T' ,'

Lt7~ZIEWE~ t;THE PRINVARTI'l -BDAXVtGHTERO

omenced liIey ftumbly. EIls! fridndvela tie eimly
days wrote his name, if he did not) 1P- a 44-f or d, ad
acoentuated the word differently when hey spoke of him
from the present p     -rontciati piling theepghfsisen
thefirst, instead of as no v, upon the e oM syM ble. A
fe&amp; sneessfu ierations inesuga' hea4iinidag      nt
length, pltkeed hita upoi .his feetanid  6oh audbraids he
walked ulong into the delectable region s of affhienCean4
importance ;-even a mtilitaryf title awaited 11e aniio
had so glriously piked pyelowigts   1e was- n6w
rich, very rih.
The family, years before, had leftthenighbotrlood of
"PassyunkRoa4 ad Shippexi Street " ith all their old
acquiaintances behind themn, and wer~e  obeopying their
own "brown stone front " mansion hi Bprae     Street,
surrounded with all the, appliances of wealth and. luxury.
Miss Padelford was an only child, was witty, accomplished,
and, many said, very handsome.  heodresid elegntly, at
any rate expensively, and was considered isitablegby the
"appe tendoinv' aristoi'acy of he, city  &amp;peelallys oby
the young gentlemanni1Abrs of that iefiable, eon-
stantly hanegionfratettnity.
Theodore   andolph wasia sntherer who had been
educated at the Penny1Vania Tiniversity'i Thl dadlphia.
He had many relatives in that eity, na it hilf been mostly
his home for a   ibei of years  With    0 the ardotrof
youth hie haseven dwen a boyf, eibhAed in obities ;-
fnanishinrg articles 1or rpa f,Mid often stopping in at
ra
pfinang-   *es'he   Ihiisobt~abessed  n bale  of  a
.  Wstsas er ba  al Astha wienLizA6" iif  lit"  atch-


T HE PRINTJiR's. PDUGHTER.

waited aboutter father's working-place to take him
safe home t ight-tiane.
Younng  fr  andolph was the only child-ofa widowed
mother whose trrowiucom    , tenable her to.educate and
help plong hero,o? was eked dut by spending most of
her     imwith her friends.-Thuscmpelled by necessity,
h~e lived the greater part of the year in Richmond, Va.,
where there ,weregnany elegant houses gladly opened for
her reception 3ut the elysian period of her life was the,
time she spent, eachyear, with her darling boy at the north,
and they two, when together, built many a cloud Castle in
Spain, looking towards. the, time when he should have
attained such a position in the profession in which he was
struggling-thatof the law-as would enable them to have
again a home of their own.
Ten  ears,  stated,  had elapsed sinbe the time our
Narrative coimenced, and I must now ask my readers to
go with me into a low drinking-saloon of Philadelphia.
It is in a cellar and the neigbourhood "down town."  The
floor is sanded. The chairs andtables, with half.the paint
worn p1; areo cut and dilapidated The company is such as
yonmight expect to see: forthe most part miserably poor,
andif giut so, sadly depraved. At a table sat Mr. West,
seeming ahnst imbecile but for the eager, covetous looks
with which he regarded the decanters ranged on a shelf
behindthbare-madthe contents of which he had neither
the moneynor rit to buy    The liquor sold here, gener-
aIly, was of a vile sort; drugged t suit the morbid, thirsty

throats f veteran drinkbrs,.whose   constitution were
additionally poisoned by each draught they swallowed.
There were men, single and in groups, oattprgd in
various patof the saloon, which was; longad  xteaded
back~ It was a chilly evening out of doors, for a dense fog
had hung around all day ; adt wasabotfor o'4o     in
the afternoon. There were a few jets of  asJighted, here
and there, bnt gloom was the characteristi pfthe apart-
ment-and the, shuffling, staggering figures lopmed o14
obscurely into huge shapes Qf wretchedness.
From a private box, before which a curtain had been
drawn, walked out two men. They had beenengged for
a long time, within in a whispered Aconyersat~in, and ox' the
table they had left,stood glasses, and an empty ecanter-w
besides several plates onwhich oysters.had been aerved.
One of them was quite young-flashy-looking, with a
sensual countenance and a swaggering air, which, for the
moment, seemed somewhat subdued. The other was about
forty-five years old and on his marked face was expressed
evil, passions. and vice. H e had the look of a hard,
resolute, bad man; of dark complexion and a. heavy beard.
Therewas a sinister glance of intelligence in his black eyes
that overawed and betokened power, and was calculated, to
abash those he designed to inRuence and with whom he
talked.
The latter wentup to the counter a  taking a handful
of silver from his pocket placed on it a couple of half-dollars
to settle the billat the same time looking around searchingly
at the different person in the room. The . younger walked
upto the stove and stood before  with a troubled, irreso-

-WS -0, -T


54        .    - L1 zZIE  wEST;
lute. air, which he attempted to coneel by whistling a
lively tune.
After the change was pocketed, the lider approached
his coipanion and laying his hand on his shoulder, said to
him in a 'low toe  glancing qicly towards Mr. West':
Charley, my man that old fellow there, will Uit s exactly
D       st t you think so?"I
'He started, and looked suppheatingly into the fae
that regarded him with an unpitying look, and said:
"Oh Reviere do nt-not now-wait few days longer I"
"The air is dhlly and it has affeeted your nerves,
boy ! You want something t warm you. Come take
another drink "then turning, and bowing towards Mr.
West, he inteogatively remained in a loud enough tone to
be heard by him-"You 'will perhaps, Sir, do us the favor
to drink withil-'
The words'eore sarcely spoken before the old man
ansebed, "AYes, thank yoi;" and quky walked toaards
the bart
Revier-e bent his head close down to the ear of the
other, and whispered:-"The very man, Charley.I
thought I 'know my game1   -and then, not appealing to
like the expressionon his hears face 'he cont Aed, hiNsing
the wvordM through his teeth Chrlthe ting has ot to
be'done, and at once!"
A  ohee men went upto the counter and hquor was
ptred by' Retoiere into each of there glasses. As they were
raimg them   o thei lips he said:-" Gentlemen, Ihave
a tat to propose for the beneftt of 'our young friend;"
looking towards Charley-" it is," success to his enterprise!P"

THE PRINTER'       DAUGHTER.
"Well, let us. drink it!" was the reply of old West,
rap ily draining his glass, and looking angiously at the
disappearing bottle which the attendant was putingback
upon the shelf- At a gesture from Reviere it was however
replaced withiit their reach, and pouring out a largo
quantity into the emptied tumbler, he sd:-" My dear Sir
you drank my toast with such hearty good-mill that I nust
not only thank you, but beg that you will again drink
success to our young friend.'" Nothing loth, it was a second
time emptied -while Reviere's first glss just touched
his lips, and Charley's had been merely tested
Perhaps, as you ,have seen much of the world, and
are a man of experience -.--continued the tempter, addres-
sing Mr. West in a deferential manner:-"you would be
willing to aid us by your advice. Our friend is young-
and I "-he hesitated; and a shadow rested for a moment
upon his countenance, as his youth-time like a ghost came
back to visit him ;-but, soon, his face grew even sterner
than it was before, and his voice, if possible, seemed a shade
blander in its tones, as he continued:--" Lalways respect
the wisdom of grey-hairs." Then, turning to the attendant
at the bar, he said: "Will you'be kind enough to give us
a bottle of your very best-.with glasses for three-and in
a box where we may be entirely private?"
The order was obeyed with alacrity, and in. .few
minutes, Charleyand his friend were seated on oneside, and
Mr. West on the other, of a box table. The curtain was
shut to, and the jet of -gas withinside was lighted. A
bottle and glasses were before them and within convenient
reach of the party.


Liquor was again   poured out-and some of it
drank by Mr. West,.-when Reviere reniarked :-"Our
filed 'here, igvery desirous t visit again the house
in which Ihe was born andwhere, until latly, he lived-.
The family wete iofottunate and had-t&amp; retire from it, and
since "-.-here, nodding towards the young man whose,
head lhad fallendown on his' arm, whieh-'concealed his face
froaobservatienhe whispered as if condentially, but an'
.acte listener night' havO detected in his emphasis a slight
sneer-" Poor fellowi- he takes it hardt"'-tien, changing
his tone quickly, he said: "My dear Sir, you are no longer
thirsty, J-see: "-.-and pushed the bottle across the table.
"Wheie is the 'house into which he is so anxious to
get ?" asked the old man, who, with an steady hand,
pouredout some' more liquor.
j'It is in Chestnut Street, a few doors from Schuylkill
Eighthon the sgth sideof the way-"-and is a very hand-
some establishment."
"WhereMrs Van Osten lives '?he again asked, as a
gleam of cunning played for' moment .about his imbecile
features.
"Yes.   Do'you know the hwse? "
" My daughter sews there sometimes. She is at work
for her this afternoon."
This senteitious reply fell'like a bomb-shell into the
council--and there was'a p4se;r-egoh heard the breathing
of the Qthez. Charley half lifted up his head and looked
furtivelyt one, and then at the other face near him-
Revieretat length broke the silence, and in a very low tone
said: " Could 'nt you manage to call upon your daughter

L I lZ . ZIE- WIEST;

56

this afternoon?-bout the time for he'to come home.
Our young -friend might thi-ough fyou.hAe his desire
gratified." When the door opeis,Tori you to serda message
up-stairs he' oddwalk.ifito the hall  nd not trouble
the servant to ansWer the bellon purpose for him.
After another pause-which wasananious one to
those who'awaited arply, Mr.'Westhin asamelo*whisper,
butin an unsteady 'tone answered : " Maybe iightgentle-
men. -Butwhat will it be worth to6you?  I am't-o old to
work, and for a sefivice it is-Worthpaying. What will you
give?
'Revieredid not "immediately ansWer in Words, but,
taking from the innerzside of.-hi coata pocket-book, he
placed two fivedollargold pieces on the table. " These
shall be yours, Sir, if you'will do this young man the faVor
proposed. We do not know your nameneither need you
know ours, if you have heard them in'entioned. 1- it a
bargain ? If so let us drink on it: ".-.and more liquor was
poured into the glasses.
-Mr. West, thought for: a little while-and then
stretching out his trembling fingers clutched  at the
gold, which, as he touched it, seemed 'to impart strength
to his purpose, while his lips moved, and the two caught
at the faint sounds which were breathed rather than
spoken-" I'll do it!"  The three tumblers were then
drained as a seal to the compact.
As six   o'clock T. M., struck, Mr. West stoo l at
Mrs. Van Osten's door. A servant carried a message to
his daughter who, not expecting her father,' immediately
hurried down to see "what could be the matter!" and quickly

T6HtRIT-T  B Ri i' 'DAUH T ER. 5R

at


LIZZIEWR-sT;
observing that he "ws not qWite hi 7elf,"-rtld him
she would be readynafew m.inutQ.jgo home. Wienshe
returned upstaiWrthe servant did nt re-appear, and the
door was leftpen. The light in theentryreealed to
Charley, skulkipg n the dens fog behnd thp ld man
the same girl whom he 1ad three yearsbeipre insulted;.-
and the adventure of the dog sodisastrous to him then,
was ny thing bAt-a refreshing  em bmao, 2Reviere
walked by, as if not connected with the party, and
bending his head towardhis coadjutor,Whispered-"Now
is your time! In quickI Do not forget the bolt in the front
sitter. I will be intime "tThe young manstepped inside,
walked softly along the hal: towards a closet under the
stairginto whiph he went and shut-to.the door after h.im
The other passed on, and, the fog and darkness soon con-
cealed himn frota sight.
The noisa of the retreating footrsteps fell on the ears
of Mr. West, as they grew less distinct in the distance, with
an appalling sound. They seemed to tell him he had made
shipwreck of his. soul :-and that-good Angels were bid-
ding him, sadly, farewell, and- inging their flight away
from him! Poor, miserable, weak and lost, old man!

I:

THE PRINTER'S DAUGHTER.

59

'HI-TH keX  0"FM      TCAl     '0tN THE
TA B8L E
ON that same foggy afternoon to which I have alluded
-and also ab6ut four o'clock-there sat in a large pleasant
chamber, beside a Fraiklin stove, in which a bright fie
was burning, old Nii's. Randolph. A  nll table, covered
wi Jh bright worsteds, stood i front of the large 'arm-chair
she occupiede-one of that bi 6ld-fashioned ind stufed
so snugly that you could fall asleep in it; and fancy your-
self in bed ;-and so capacious, that in just' such many a
little baby is said to hav  narrowly escaped being crushed-
to death as it was laid upon the seat to kick and stretch its
'limbs, by 'the sitting down of an incautious visitor- who
did not'carr y.eyes behind 'as well as- i front. She was
introducing into some beautiful form of rotchet-work the
various coloured threads before her,' intending it as a.
simple bridal-gift for the orphan niece of the rich Mrs..
Van''Osten, whos9 niajagrie was t tike place in a fe4 days
and as whose bridesmaid Miss Padelford was to officiate,
attended upon by her son, Theodore.


AI- ZI X, WJT;
The old lady was little changed since the time, three
years ago, she was first presented to our readers. She
looked up occasionally at the mantel clock to see how time
progressed-for, when not engaged in court-business, her
son always spent an hour or two with her after dinner.
His boarding-house was close to his office and, although
not living in the'same house whee his mother visited, he
did all that affectioniate solicitide coild, to make her sojourn
as pleasant as possible.
Her,ear caught his well kown- atep on the staira, and,
with a iad smile she bade hirn terxas ie tlyr trnocked
at the door. There had ,bethilieady a chair which she
knew he loved to sit iun placed for him. near her side and
pleasantly situated as regarded the ire. Oh how delightful
to both of them eeemed the little race of time they were
Ito spend together l alone by themselves.
An hour f eQnversatiengassed as a few minutes, and
he told her of several new ases le had in hand, and which
hp hoped to gain, and how he was going to manage them;
and she listened and thought " how sensible he was;" an
"9 what an ornament he would be to his profession, and ho
-some day he would be looked up to and respected!"  nd
then, the old longing for the time to come when they tw
eould, in one home, live always together, came back upon
hr poor heart so that she could scarcely keep from weeping.
And, as she ganced up at -his face, it seemed to her he
looked paler and thinner than he used to   4. "Oh itdoes
take a long while for a young lawyer to make his way in
his professionI ".-and an involuntary sigh escaped, audibly
from her heart.

N

I

THE PRINTER ' DAUGHTER.

01

Theodore started, and lhoked aniously at his mother,
who endAvoredtoecovet er selfpossessinbutdasinct,
ively be had divined her4owught, an4 sad*with an endeavor
to hange its direction, j" What is thisbeautiful piece pf
work that you are making, mother? ?tis as right as
sunbeatms ;-and as beautifu11y shaded ao a bedof ulips."
"It s a lamp-mat, or itwill o.. r a :e er yase, as
lamps are going out ifaShion  It isfor  araVan Osten
as a bridal present  I ,am glaj y-ou thing i* pretty:" and
she smiled one of her sweetyuiet biziles.
"Yds1-4    edda~g istheriextw ~week     d Lam to
be one of thejgr'oo l men.  Wamitoid  is expected to be a
grand Affair.s The whole town " talking about the "set
out 4'. the bride is togets The bill for sih er at Bailey nd
EKitohes is ever a Thousand dollaraji It was Seat me
yesterday and is very 'spendidL  Ratry:took  me,4The day
beforeto see it. lie seems very happy. He is a clever
follow, and fortunate too,; .fr Clara seems a niesgirl and
she will inherit All her7 aunt's wealth -Mr. Campbell,
the solicitor, told me so, and he is inthe donddence of the
old:lady"
"Angelina Iadeiford is to be the bridesmaid with
you, is she not,Theodore "--and the moher's thoughts
traveled off in , Airection which wa9s as  udient to the
1son's mind as toer -owa, There we" a.silente:-aam she
looked steadily at her worateds, while lie gaed into the
fire. With the air of  a manu wh6, had detenuined upon
MeOting a disagreeable neceysity, he  t lant moren his
- chafr .eleser t~o hers, and, Ie~ning upon one Cif its arms,


looked up into her face, and said:-" Mother, my dear
mother, I van never marry Angelina Padelford!"
Mrs. Randolph nerved herself to meet the announce;
iment, but she was not equal t the efoit, and the tears
stang, she rejlied-" Iam sorry, Theodore, very sorry 1"
iMy own dear mother, let us talk over all this thing
now. It seems tome the time. It will'be unpleasant, but
I ought to tell you all. 'I knowyour love for me.e I- know
all your self-deniaL  And, oh mother, I love y u, too,
dearly; and would driain my heart, drop by drop, to insure
your happines.-but in this tizg I cannot do as you
wish. It ~voild be selletgmyyselffor gold!"
"ut Angelina is handsome, accomplished, and she is
very smart.1have heard you say -so, again and again,
Theodore" she ainswerered, turning with feminine perti-
nacity to what'she deeeod the argument involved.
"Mother, I do ,o, love her. I have tried for your
sake to do"so -because I thought.yonwanted te to marry
her. She isal that you say, and I wish ber ever earthly
blessing. But Icannevei be her husband, for "  -
"Theodore, do you love any one else?"M-and, with a
startled look; she glanced anxiously nto his face.
The question was sudden and un expected r-but, with
an unsbrinking eye the' young man ga e back his mother'a
glance; and, in a low, yet distinct  nesaid --"Yes
mother,I I do: ":- and then, overcome, h bent his head-
down upon:the.armof her chair andwept like a little boy.
Her work fell from the old lady's grasp and tears
streamed down herfgee, but she laid her trembling hands'
softly upon her child's head, and said, "God bless you my

L r ZZ T B wX s T

6a2

-

THE PRNTER'S DAUGHTER.

v ,

63

boy! I will try and never urge you again  bout thi
matter. Whom you love I will love; and she. shall be
unto me as a daughter.!
"h, my mother, you are kin! And now. you must
kiew allevery thing-cost what it may."- And he took
hat aear feeble hand in both ofhis ow  and tenderly
smoothed itgaing lovingly, the whileinto her eyes.-" Do
you. recollect the night, as we were coming. hom  from a
party, about three years ago, seeing young 'girl standing
beside, a miserable looking old man nearthe steps on the
pavement?"   Mrs. Randolph shuddered -and could not
speak:-she simply nodded her h as acquiescencee . He
continued, still gaz in her face .witli'an almost mesmeric
power:-.and fondling still the hand he held within his
own-
That young girlif ever I marry, shall my wife.
She is poor,-poorer ,,far than we are ;--her father i a
contemptible drunkard-r-but she has clung to him as our
Makr clings to us, when we go astray. %tlung to him as
her mother did, until heart-broken, she died and joined her
sister angels!"  The old lady wept convulsively, as he
proceeded :-" Through.-abject poverty,--through scenes
where vice towered rampant,--through th ereets at all
hours of the night, she has followed him, and not a stain
rests upon the spotless purity of her innocee,  Mother,
with that little implement the needle, she has kept from
him hunger, bold, and covered his disra'ed old head with
a shelter.-- havetried; .yes, I have tried-.-all unnanly
as it was-.-that this love should not grow up in my heart.
I have tried to think of her as beneath me: and resolved not
to stoop so low! Stoop so low? I cannot hope ever in


64

LI Z ZIE '    s T:;

God's sight, to occupy such, an emiience as that on Uhich
she standsi"
"Does this young woman loe yu pa mu-h as you
do her?" asked M       ]Mrs. andolplk, agi  clinging to a
floating reedi;-hoping fron  the answer something, she
scareely knew what,ndight be elicited  which to build
some citadel ofstrength agaiIst this passion &amp;f her son.
"I do not kniow, mother. Never hate I spoken a
word tother, or to any one, upon the subjectO It iwi a feeling
that with me has been thepgrowth ef years. And no power,
but that of death can remove it from m  heart. I havr
told you, every thing. Aid now, as whew I was a child, I
wxnt you, mother,-again to bless me
Mrs, Randolph felt that itwas- all over-k-oshe trembled
for her child, and could not but wish that he might have
been spared the longheartrearying lifewstruggle with
straitened circmstances frohr which a marriage with
wealth woul&amp; have aed hix. Sie sadly, yet afeetionately-
bade himy keeA befoe he, a    he blessing wasp poured
out with a heart4eltt-pathos that by the son was never
forgotten,
Whel hdrosehe saidb Nw, Theodore, must be
for awhile, alOne  aYar old mothers not so strong to bear
things as he      I oneIas. I'will try and trust a-Il to
heavily ]?athe""
Theod      Ra1ndlph  *ax:e   t ilto the street with-a
lighter heart _then he had carried. for  may aolong dty.
Eis mother now knew his heart-secret, and he did not care
very much for the, opinion of any one else about the

TH E PRINTER S DAUGHTER.  6

water.  There was one thing however .that did trouble
him:-he did not feel satisfied ,with what his -,44et
"had been towardsAlgiu&amp; Po4olitrd- Trueahe hid ever
- made love tolerhut he had attended i4pon her in public
a good deakgine with her frequetly to parties, and he
knew their naniesurashionab"1 gossi were often coupled
tgther--audthishadbeeu the pase or years.. His personal
vanity led hiim toithiuncf'she ered something for him ,"-
andnfitteing aAithia-thdnght usual i   yqung gentle-
me, h "now saw that in th  matter he, ha4 acted very
rong, -bsorbed in siuch ineitationa he fouad himself
-nearing his boarding house andthat tea-time had arrived.
That over, he went up into his room, which was half
a stud  an  busied himself with his oeks. Wer ere
several legal points on which-he -ake&amp; arerinformation,
and he hunted out laboriously the- kernel from the hard
shell of the sheepskin vohanes inwhiek it was encased.
Seven, eight, nine eloek itruekoand then,;throwing down
iia:beoks, he~ said~-"'f1i go and seAngelina to~ night ;
a. iI entwil ear myselftas far aw the future may be
eented;.-4 do    care how n   km of anconceited fool I
ihall appeartI
He, hurried on a clean collar, arrange- his hai,
combedi out hsiiskie   an&amp;*tied tokeep up his spirits,
be he did not; feelvery bilariousa in anticipation of the
n4iit and started for thelhade4  Tha fog andamp chilled
44ii and he walked fast to keep hinvselt Weam. -Although
Rites~a41atehairte all; by the timeh w ived at General
? o s do  he dotrnued -togo in and get through


6rLIZZIE WEST;

with the affair-not knowing how in the world he should
manage it.
There were several gentlemen in   s hedrawing-toom
with Angelina, and hy all seeded in gey-spirits. Never
had the entree luxuy aid: elegance1of this expensive
establishment so impressed hims iti did this .night The
soft car-pets gilded  irrorp anid glittering pendants-the
statuettes a &amp;  iot eL the adeping cnt'tains: of heavy
silk damask, relieved by those of lae,-allformed agorge.
ous whole that contrasted forcibly withldhe discomfort of his
walk, and his oe plaiichambenthatle :had sd recently
left. The young lady approached hithn friendly manner
and bidding Itieloemoffei'ed him het soft hand; and
a very beiutifulone it ivas  fact df Which she aw well
aware   -and thet t i ked :
Mr. R dolph wefe jiet talking about you, or
rather ab6utAClaraVa  Osten'marriagd'atwhich cereniony
you are to be"on eof- the consi uous aStor"-
As eko-en   avalier of Niss Padelford."quickly
added ofO 2f~thigentenebefoeshe oaid nish what
she was saying, accoptnying the words by a look which
meant a good deal, and which appeared to be. understood
by all ofthem
Evidently annoyed, she colourdA lightly, but con-
tinued: "If the gentleman hadpermitt'ed me to fnish my
speech I vouliot have concluded it, I fear in a flatteiring
manner to you,1VIM Randolph ; for I wa going to quote
something aboit talking  a certain ' gentleman in black'
who, it is said, always makes his. appearAnce *hneA this

"'Yes;'-and the beautiful hand was again brought
into service, as she waved it assentingly to her expressed
opinion. 'Yet, why ask a question to which there is only
one answer?'       Page 71.

66


I1

THE P RIN'TR' 1AVG H T E R.

71

friendly liberty is takeii with himr ; and theit, instituting a
emiparisoni, ix the present ibstane"' She laughed,
.merrily.
He bowed, with a swmili qpoa hiskf.ee, but not feeling
in unison with the flow of converade.yt, still, gentle.
manly and polit ha saadown by abtle preadIwith books
and engravings a4 employed fAneelf -iI looking- them
Over.. 'T'he companydid nstayagewhilelenger, think
ing they were somewhat in the way-and hen they got into
the street, one of themA said: "That Randolph need 'nt
look sot gumtinding thkem there.1 Any body eduld see
he might put his hands just ask soon as he pleased into old
Padelford'sdoieyags-for his daughter was dead in love
with himn! ". This was no rery flattering comrplimeint to
Miss Angelina, and if she could htaw  heard the romark it
would not have increased her happiness. it is well we
denothear al thatis said of us by our friends: a preroga-
tiVe of the "man in blac**k whichmaybe is a part of
the punishment to which he ihas been justly ondemned.
1Now, Mr. l-andolph, that those tiresome fellows are
gone, let us have a nice talk about the wedding;-" said
the young lady, as her visitors left the rodin_-6-an4 she sat
dQwn on a sofa, white he took a     'air near by. She looked
very joyous, and her bright eyes sparkled with animation.
"A prospective wedding seems a very deightfid thing
to you Mitt Angelina, does it not?"
"Tes';   and the beautiful hand was again brought
int service a shd waved it assentingly to ,her expressed
opinion. "Tet; why ask a question to which there is only
one answer?T

WON  V
OIL
JA


72               LI'71ZIJ' WEST;T

"Because, I49?   thiuk so! "--and there was an
abrupt pause. "'Butt I am not in a very happy frame of.
mind to night,"-'-and then, recollecting the relief he had
felt in having told his mother, his serethe stammered out,
"at least, not just now."
Mischievously smiling,; and with a dash of sarcasm in
her voice,: she said' "Well1 that is complimentary at any
rate'! I am rather surprised at :my own amiability in keeping
in good humour"
"I have always found you amiable and very kind to,
me, Miss Padelford,".-he replied with feeling--" and I did'
not mean tobe rue ; "--she bent her head forward so as-
to catch every intonation of his voiefor she almost began
to hope that hewould utter words- that her heart had
longed, for years, to hear :-" and, I am, now going to tell
you about a marriage that may take place, which most of
the' world would, not' think- a very delightful one in
expectancy."--There was a pause-which was embarrassing
to both, and she strove to"rally herself to break it by some.
light renark but -she could not ;-+for his face looked too
sadly earnest, and she herself felt that, smehow, she was
interested in what further' was to be said. He continued
"It is that of a poor girl,.,without, a mother, and
whose father is one' of the most miserable of mwen, a
drunkard who 'broke hiswife's heart,, and has kept his
child chained down to poverty because she would still cling
to, him.'! Angelina trqmled !-hke now guessed all that
was not yet told:-"And the man is a poorproud young
lawyer 'with an old mother t . care for and to love, who
thinks him a combined Solomon, Solon and Lycurgus-but

who is, in fact, only fool enough to suppose he may win that
maiden, for she has 16gP unknowitig it herself,-,Possessed his
heart!-Do you rem-mber, Miss Angelina, about three
years ago whenIattendedl withyowu  --"
Ie looked towardthor. The young lady'sface flushed
scarlet,-yet, she interrupted him in' cold toneseach word
uttered witha forced distictness,-" A pretty little romance
sir! I remember well the'night-" andithout knowing
it, her face and voice expressed, jeering look and tone, as
she- added-" And the -girl! too." Firmly compressing
her lips, her eyelids rapidly moving up and down, for the
tears seemed determitied to start; she continued, in the
same Ifreezing accents,- I cannot but feel grateful in
having been made your confidant in so important a
At that moment a servant came into the room to say,
"That a boy at the door was asking for Mr. Randolph, and
wanted to see him immediately on urgent business."
Miss Padelford arose, and with a profound courtesy
bade him  "Goodnight;"-and hoped "soon to be able
to congratulate him on-his successin the court of Cupid!"
But, when he had left the apartment, she pressed her hand
heavily against her heart, and almost fainting, sank back
upon the sofa.
Reviere had told the truth to Mr. West so far as the
fact was concerned that the house where Mrs. Van Osten
lived was the one which had been, until lately, Charley's
home. His father, a shipping merchant ih large business

I,

THE PP.INTRPt'S--'-DA-UG*RTEPt@


74I              19

esteemi'g li   lffelh     through ionrmous
i~rrejuatsthe~waves 9f   %W~rypnofirsl
stringency rolled-Uts 4"a vOiijgiilweooreoury
Ma1e eud 10:wpr i~  ~eu1iwri 4;a4l'fw~oi~atr
-,tole t tA  ti  ~e ~  4 iybiwed b4,  r itan
,,was,-a~s ladAs"~ rw~Thi z~ eu~W          left GAle
ofi dlnsalaetpeveedtssnd posessig
txrel ay   1regt4 '1- of w  al Pwp.  No wonder that
"i e~1an esy 1 ty;it0"e"a               , f 1efowlr
Meviene had c                           --o hi ~ow~~eo eiiswhich he
lixl hijs, tiely tamPt84 }ipa rt conirnit,, obtained auc~li
a, sway over him that the youth had no power lut to,, follow
,is led.Mi  ,iher tps wer ast  AA       dwnupon
-the W, esboldAoI'-,tersm Qui
Above.,he   ,,~me4~ds-udfrmbntth
'pit sntforth A; luidlight imenthi-" ~  r  ,downward
and -sill'dowvward,'li4-bey  o  Wipee      oS
warning stArtle&amp; them7 nw*#, d  t;amd fa4 htn  g7h
would reveal oosira y telmgrd     uluied face of -An
overtaken -crifminal oi ing u o h  dr~  p  them*.
Whnthe, feet of the young man tottered,ead h~s,,Ie lqjs
trembled, the other, with demoniac, influence urged,_ him,
agan, onward-and the sulphurous. clouds then wreathed
them~selves 'into W,.Ideoms, tow  Oe f, Aoengfends
,that overlooked. he=1
The hours spent hy Uharloy in- ta4 -loset. under -the

I

THE p RZSTM' 91L      %G RT ER.
slimy lenth, 'rowid", ftfr  oueb er -
*here, oh -wher6 *4i-it Y1l t 6end? 9u Amretifte, lIe thogt"
~h6 wo uld cmb voivtishiogp          thesu
and, abide the consequences' J34~itlehiank bank again at
*th6vw etehed fell,'Ow usbd him, weepiig bitter -ea%;
Thereis n jpmint In Almost verygrpM empt mftnhae
'the p-Or wek&amp; one would gladly ti o rmtl~otn~i
-of ' 6th  i rizdid he-heli 6-"         -*nef be'~  ra  Tough
thewe o ~icunsaiaes su viiunding hm- .tuid prwps,
nocygoes up in wild wailing-more zgiiing, than f1roni
thhe %arts oif isuAionh yeard and noted-byltliWitying
Fsatherl*!.-Oh                                   -bwn n~r  gannid itu  y
bxur~isth~~,r~ioyour eym h a~u    aadwnir
at, the,4amaing  ikedtes -of yopur apeeies puetr  T
so -harshl1y judge yojur ypoor_ erring bratherdl", a'tye
no,,c lotheis to wat -no food to eatl"":ma, Ahelter to.
cover -your.-head 1-anmd, by some falae, iieamtnug ldbemn
lieved- that only iiyteh nietrsa  l&amp;d-1)they Ibe _obtained
thinkest ye that, all imsioathed-, the-temptatioiiwould pas
?O y  ? If so, 1ye littleknowtewekesfyoreat
-.-a6n I pray ( God to 4eliver -you -when icomnes Your .hour
of strong temptwtioni

I


76ELIZZIE  T H E P it4T.EiT E nADTGHTE R.

He heard..thienbigeclock,. hig hd been once his
father's, sand  chi still stoodintheall,strike hour
after hoi of theinight and then Clara Yan Osten go into
theuntrywith Iarry to bid hiigood bye"when he went
away-adfromsthe library at thehead of the firstaung
on the stairs, the voice of heraunttellingher," to be partie-
ular to -lock the door andbringthekeyup stairs with her-"
The house afterwards grew hushed;srsayq the tigkig of
thatold clock, ard the occasional9rea]ingpf the furniture,
it was still as a Ohurchyard!
Charley ca ne ,steathily out of his hiding place and
walked ontip-toe along the entry to thegback-parlor-door, but
it wasalocked on the inside-and he half hopedthat the
doorof the ~frontiarlour would be locked too,.and then
Reviere could not blame him for not pushing back the
window-bolt, He crept along to it -  found that it was
notnly unlocked but slightly ajar, andwith a sinkig
heart went into the room.
Te fire was still burning in the grate and a piece of coal
fellrattlingdowninto the cinderybbox as he crossed the, door's
threshold. The noise startled him, and, alarmed, he threw
himself on the sofaalongside of the, wall and-lay therefore
some tinie before herecovered from his terror.. Then, gradu-
allyto liim the room becamea.haunted, chamber. Father,
mother, arid old friends that. once. visited them, all seemed to
have' 6me ba k again!-and were walking about init as
they used to*d  and they-cme up to wherp helay and look..
ed sorrowfully athim-;-.-and his.,nother'sters reined down
upon him including: drops.; He lifted up his sleve to.
wipe them away and found his face sufftsed with beads pf per-

apitation  itwasinsufferably dreidfI   h 4 ihig bit
this.  t  ahuostiongedfo iRevi t mee
He got upraised the window4ashoffly, ad withdrew
the bolt.    etl illusin-and he nr felt
stranger  Buti va Iit ile while;intheak vame up befoi
him the picture of his distant Telative MfsVan Osten walk
ing aldg'4asshekanepon hergeld-healed Lae Though
oldp het eagleye ewee still brightand ier Ua t still
undaunted ;-+ad the th4ughtflier f lled him with a strong
fear of a personal ennog ner  Jark  Ihat the sond of
her cane comingalong theetry floor I    i i Reviere
tapping lightly,as had been- agreed uponAt the outside
of the window.shtter
llight,gharley?" he asked i a whisper as, with
a bound, helightly-stepied inat the WidW pulling the
shutter toimmediately after him, but not bolting it.
"I don't knowwhat ou mean by Allright in anything
connected with this afair ;"wa  2ary's anse  nb
means a complacent although aVhispered tone-" Reie
if there is any pity i your hrtletus be doneawith this
an go home. Ihaveuered tents already."
"Fool!" -e-was the reply.;  ere we havenothing to
dQ but get; this silver :for the carrying of it off-;.a--and you
want to back out. You were always chkenthearted!
and Idon't think there is feuch in you. I believeitwaaldibe
best after all to let the la take its course with those small
cerapso paernhay ?for your consciencalways troubtes
yeU at the wrong-time1and, if the dRkness would hae
permitted him to4ha0-1 seen it,4harley nigtM well hav
shrank from the miaglignant expression of the countenance

I

AM Ok
rz "
0 'Ap

L-1 ZIJ E%- WEAT;

WJ

.1

,I


78                LzzENwET;
that glared towards hint ~As it was his spirit sank within
him, and he presedhis face lose down'into one of the cush.
ions that lay:uponthe sofa.
Reviere took froni his p6ket a arkilantern which he
lighted, and ,then abur  of keys with some strange
looking instr ments.
"Here,I Jwill want youto 'hold this,  wlgile'I pick,
-the sideboard4oak ' and he -eldh oitthe lantern towards
Charley, who got ufind.did- as he was bidden.
The sideboatd sa inthe-back parlour andthe' folding
doors between the tw-roonis had been left half-open. With-
out ffnving them further they went into that room. A
number of pieces of plate were set out upon it :-two
'arge silver pitchers several cake baskets, and a whole tea-
set which was arranged on a massive'waiter,-all of 'which
were chased elaborately.  As Reviere's eyes glanced
over the  display, he sarcastically muttered,  It is a
pitygthey took somuch troubleto ornament them as they
will soon be melted up !' --The solid stuff is what we want ;"
and,turning to his companion, he added-" But-let us get the
little things out first. Holdthe light justdso I' Being obeyed,
with a dextrous hand the door-lock was soon overcome.
The capacious closet underneath revealed dozen after
dozen of spoons and forks, among which, conspicuously ar-
ranged in a cut-glass receiver, was.a dozen and a half solid
gold tea-spoons. .At the sight of these Reviere: uttered a
suppressed exclamation of joy, immediately secreting
them upon his own person. . They then commenepd' packing
the articles in baskets, several of which were procu-ed from
the closet which had been Charley's hiding place. They

THE PRINTER"s DAUGHTER R.                79
walked about softly as mice,  taiting at every noise
they made ;--and Reviere, at the least rattling of the- pre-
cious ware, cursing every now and then in an underbreath,
the "jingling things! "
Their plan was to get off through the back-door and
the yard into George Street--and be away with'their booty.
Thelast basket was filled, and Reviee was lifting the huge
waiter cautiously from the sideboard, when Oharleyi with a
face paleal death, cried out, "Look there! oh !-oh!--"
pointing towards the other parlour,' where, between the
folding doors, stAod Mrs. Van Osten in her night-dress,
looking undismayed at-the two burglars. She was leaning
on her cane: and now, raising it, said, "Sirs,-that property
is not yours that you are disturbing! " There was not'a
tremble in her voice, and-it sounded' out clear and distinct
upon the dead silence of the' night.
Reviere himself was for' the momerit dismayed, and
Charley cowered back into a corner of the room unable to
stand. But the former, recovering himself, looked up
towards' her defiantly, and replied --" But it shall be, old
woman, despite of all that you can do!"
"No: "-and she shook her 'head solemnly-"it shall
not be! unless you walk over my dead body., Murder is
a dreadful thing ;-even if it be that of a grey head."
Reviere, menacingly, approached her. But she stood
unmoved as a rook, and when within almost arm's reach of
her he stopped: "Iwill have that booty,or I will be--
and a knife gleamed in ,his hand as he drew it from-his
bosom to strike at her:, while she, with her cane, feebly
parried the blow. A howl!-a leap in the air !--followed


80              '44Iq a     WjO$ma
the discharge off gistol from outside the Window-shuger,
where stoodtwopolicemnen whi    ad jv4 arrived;-and
.Revinte lay on the$erpweltering in blood, ate Ms, Van
Osten's feet. The ball had passed though hishea4 and it
never beat agaii-1,4he  ath whieh was to have finished
his sentence was never spoken upon earth.
Tb-whoble householdwas alarmed and soon astit, and
in the ,immediate confusiioni harley was scarcely noticed.
Withoit-beingarested spoken: to he walked away,
and climbing up into a table in the neighbourhood
thanked God that he had beeni spared from further partici-
pation-in the -proposed crime. lHe, felt a sense of relief
ii Ithe -fact-that Reviefe was 4ead-.-although he knew not
whore were thf fatal documents of his former guilt with
which h used to terrify him. He resolved with all the
strength he was capable of, to lead a better life, and prayed
for help.
Poor fellow !~as he lay on that bed of hay-wearied
out by the night's terrible-experience, sleep -would at times,
half overcome him,and he muttered overhand over again
the first form of prayer he ever learned, and which he had
not thought of for so many many years.,
Now I lay ma 4wnn to sleep,
I pray the Lord my soul to keep;
If I should di beforeI- wake,
I ray thieLr4 my oul ton t~~
Even as the Angel that in olden time can6 down and
rou   bed Bethesd*  Pool-adding hahng efficacy to its
waterS-solover tht troued spirt, swept a      ivine

THE P1I1*R E        DAUGHTER.           8i
inflhee stiringits inzost depths. My it be, that the
wail, Eolian-like, from the misspent Past, shall give piace,
at length, to the     of the Divere4."
When Mr, West and his dau hte start fr home
from Mrs    aOsten's door they both felt0sad -At heart.
She was not long I observiug that something unusual was
on the old man's mind. He was restlessand Wpq1d walk
on a-head of her  d ad then look furtively behind him as
she came up as if afraid of pursuit. She 4did ot know what
it meant and. feared she knew not what calamity was in
store for them.. His calling to for her was unusual, but
she did not like to ask him, Wi he had dome? fearing
to hurt his feelings,; and that he might suppose she was
mortified at his having done so.
She was. anxious too, about her other father, old Mr.
Brown.,  Le had been sick the greater part of the agnmer
and did not appear to be getting any better but much
weaker, as the cool weather came on. She had not seen
him for several days and thought that to night,'after tea, she
would certainly: att him. When they got-home she found
a message for her stating that he "was very mich worse,
and that he wanted to se her as, soon apoggil
Rapidly preparing her father's supper, she tArted for
his house, but had scarcely walked the length of a square
when she heard some ontealling at der, and,4urnig
round, saw through the fog Mr. West rapidly following.
"Jizzieyou must take me too: I eano stay at home


82

L ZZIE -WEST

alone!" 'and he. shook ajl,-,over as though. he had a
chill.
,I did not think, father,-you wanted to go oi.tagain to
night, or I would have spoken to you about it. Are you
not afraid of the damp-? You" are trembling now with the
cold."
1 Oh no,, I am' not tre-trenh-treinblng!" and his
teethehaittered'o that'he ckuld scarcely get out the words.
Again he lokedaround himn apprehensively.
aell,   e, will walk faster; and, maybe    the
exercise will warm you:"-she'took hold of his rm and
they hiriied'n at a quick pace.
When the' arrived at Mr. Brown's they found him,
indeed, very ill. He was propped up in bed-his face was
nearly as white as the pillows upoi which he ested. Miss
West saw at.aAglance that his 'hours were numbered: 'Oh!
how desolate, would she be without him. With a composed
face, however, she came up t the bedside, and 'said, "My
cear friend,why did I not know sooner you were worse?
My first duty would have been to attend pn you."
" Know it, Lucy--Linie I ieau- bit 'Mrs. Davis has
been very kind and has done all that could be done to make
me feel easy. "-Bt I' want you to staynntil it is' all over.
It will' not be long."
"I will not leave you iny 'dear friend "-and she
lookedlovingly into 'is fae,'  which was stamped so
plainly Death' signet.
This  announcement seemed to gratify him; and she sat
down oni a chairand pressed his temples-gently with her
hand, and snoothed back his iorPgrey hair from  his

1

THE PRIIIT-T'R' 'S D U AUGIH TER.

.83

clammy forehead:,which she wipedagain, and again.. They
weresad chours.to the poor ,girl.
"I should liketo see .uce more'' said-hefeebly and
with an effort,--M'a young Mr. Randolph. There issome busi-
ness Lwant to:leave in his hands."
"He shall be sent .for;immediately;"'was the calm
reply--and she walked softly down stairs tosdispatch thqboy
who asiste inther Atore to find h.a :_he ,gave him his
office and boarding-house address ith that of his mother-
and instructionthatif notthenoundto call at General
Padelford's and Mrs.Van Osten's. He was a sharpcity-lad
and quicka  ending placesand people. ,She hoped that he
would bring hbback o4 his return. Her father sat!1i the
kitchen with the nurse, and looked very solemn as he thought
over how ill was his old acquaintance.
She theni returnedto the chamber and watched again
beside him. Shegave hii of the liquidsadirected by the
physician, and heayquietly dying, b'her side, An hour
elapsed beforethe boy cane back; b  when hedid come
Theodore Randolph was with him. The sick nian i-oused
up as he enteredth!e kroom   and faintly smiled, and
-hemile was returad bythe youngman        th' a. look
o unutterable sorrow, ;ie approached ,thebedsideoand
said, "Mr. Brown Iamosorry I did.Anot soonerknow you
were sQ.sick and wantedato see me.
"All is in good time;"was the feeblr-plyfainter than
whenhe had lagt spoken;. and theuiiawords uttered at inter-
vals, as strength would pemitpheontinued-"I have made
yewthe   eeator ffrmywill, and all that1have is left to
my, -a ughter hereTtiaie--whose face l Want to be9the

I


I

84

lasE thing Isee enah      Willenunidedake itand
always remember the poorbib eonipletelyexhausted,
the fewahst words were scarcely auiblei&amp;
i"Y  It d    ge tr it iIlved thousafids I will see all
faithfully executed: " and the look of sonrdw settled again
upon Randolph's faee 'ap ho gated at the gasping, dying
man before liki
d1Come Lisje,-lt ine saes youi ifaY t agal it is
growing daik I-WheU-?resyoa?"
"I am here Just besidyou and holding your hands
in-
"Lizzietn-Lu cylthere was i rattig in then's
throat.  Afterwrtis the hush of death ws in that
room
*      *      *       *     .      ,*             4
" Our friend hasgone! inm a llowvoiee broke upon its
stillness from the lips of Theodore Randolph.
Yes;"-said Miss West,-eping,.*" and the world
is poorr- iHe was the kindot and most guilelessof
mankind"
"'ue"    md then, after a lengthened patse, he r4,
marked interrogatively.. " He -seemed tocnfuse your
namaestrangelywith that f anothet-"Lucy? ie was an6
oldfreAdi of your faMil  belied  '
"He knew my mother from thetime sh was aninfaIft
d'&amp;itook mare delight hi tAkingabout ber thai bpon
any ethehabjeot  anfd to me tonit a   the me@ inter'
estikng. M  not4ietlnae waSIucy.'
SAftertniothee fle hadd assed, in:a Ao cleanest tone
he aelkedYore   aidto tesetnald herges youAio6 ?"

THE PI~~~  ~D.rHfR

08

"Mr       ~-wnMay told hme-lookedmuh like her
when abe   in myugr;" was he reply gieei tk the qpeas
tion.
- No Wadera tlhen, he loed to talk about your
motherP0"fe  api1fwere% ijvolnatarily, from himewades
surprised ad halfrightnedat his speech ,looked, up.
fIor wer face ha4 bee-dhidden in her hand. Bat she v air
back agnfro       vtthelarneslookthat net her4 ;,for there
was no mistaking it meaning.I     the sane lowakeart
stirring tones, le continued
"Yes, it is no wonder 1 Ad now Misa West al un
fitting as the time may seem, le annot longer reraiu from
Speaking the sentiments of my heart. Dearly, ardently,
with my whole heartlove yea-and you ev the only on i
haye ever loved, My life shall be devoted to taking eare
of you if you willpermit it. You an my mother are the
all of the world to met"
He stopped4 She waited for somedtip- butlkOI4 not
answertilagthobetween 8obs, te murmured. sentences
came:- Mr.-audolph ypi forget." "Wearevery low in
life s and mye fathe'-" Oh ! mty fatherl"..-and she
leaned her head  pon the ed post and wept as upon that
night, in the garreogo, hen allof childhood that sorrow
had left behind flowed out from herstrieketi heart,
Then soothingly, like, soft music, came from his lips
the worda   " Thy patient, iartyr-devotion. to thy erring
parent is, in my ight, a more beautiful adornment than, if
uponthy brow rested acoronalof priceless pearlsI"
Her han   was near hiss and)as he gen ly took
its within hbis grasp, itas not withdrawn.- There

I

SIZZLE WE; -


was no other sigm.r tokenechangyd betweenthem;--yet,
each 'fel~ that1*wth;the otied all of lif's:iitorsts were,
forever, bound together.
T                              6Ie ni-kd dcmfe iiit6 tee room to  ae  oie necessary
arri genes aiid MtRRa ndiph busied himself i giving
dire~tios relative to the intenent aid theeharg' of the
s~itifg   brty bnThe pretises.Thesaue boy; that hated
hitri up so e1fiety,'wans ent forf anindetAker  and
the fai-s' stbie  down his -face, alhe~hifried on his
mournful errand and remeineidhe 'kiAdnesses of his
late es pioyer during his term of eried.
Mi-.Westhen -he tane up toth&amp; ohamiber was com-
pletelywvrp'owered by the presence of the dead man.
The6 as nie buthibdaughter in thegrodniand even she,
&amp;st6ddidhed 'to~ th&amp; exhibit of al hi W'eaknesses, as Puch
surpriiedthis-.nd ct  He cowered down fallof fear,
and groaned in terror. At last, with  emphasis un-
ueiialiinIi, atid-witlih ightehed look out ofihis eyes, he
alntoo scrdteat~d:IThere!'I.Will have nothing more to do
with you! Yourbi likiecoals bf fire!" thi-owing at the same
fime two gold pieces fiom his waistcoat pocket on the bed;
thin, clutching at his daughter's dress, he fell on his knees
beside her:-"Lizzi&amp; will they take me too? oh save me!
and I vill tell all about it  It is'nt0too late yet:yes,-I
will tell all!"
Saher, what do you iean? There is no one going to
take you. Tell me, what is it all about'?"
" Oh, yes they will. Mrs. Van Osten's hou-se is getting
tGobbed to night. They paid me that gold there,to call for
You, and- let one of them in,'while I waited at the door.

89

LxzZrEwT

"He sprang up, upsetting the stool on which he had
been sitting, leaped upon its legs as it lay horizontally-on
the floor, and brandished a stick in his hand,which he had
caught at, as if in defence."  Page 97.


THE   PRI XTE R 'S D A UG H T E R.      91
Lizzie, save me thpy'io coming I Ihearthem !" and he
caught again At her dress for a moment, but, quickly letting
it go, erept-underneath the bed.
The noise of the wagbn belonging to :theundertaker
which had just diven up to the ddor:'had assisted in
alarming the imagination of the old iau-4hd his daughter,
comprehending, from  what she heard the necessityof
immediate action in the ease, summoned toher aidall her
resolutionthat she might,.if possible prevent the meditated
robbery. She trk gentlyAto paeify his fear---old him
what the noise was, that he-had heard-and begged im
"to come out from beneath the bed and sit beside her, and
tell her about it!" and that,-if -he did so "no harm
would," she thought, "come near him.,  She succeedein
her attempt--and soon elicited allhe- knew.
As she looked at the sad wreck her father presented: he
shuddered at the thought. of dislosing this new, terrible
disgrace to Mr. Randolphd But it must be dlen'e-jandhe
left the chamber in search of him, As a ehij follow  its
mother, so he, the wretched old man in his hour of trouble
child-like, followed her. She had scarcely entered the room
down stairs, where' Mr. Randolph was, and tremblingly
seated herself on the settee, when he, haggard-looking, also
opened the door and came in after her. he motiqned him
to a seat, and, making a strenuous effort, said
" Mr. Randolph, I have something very dreadful to tll
you. My father has just made me aware -that a robbery
is to be attempted to night at Mrs. Van Osten's,. Can it
not be frustrated?"
The young lawyer started :--but, his profssiepal, cool-
5


.92              nIzsZI  WEST;
ness returning- he said:" We will trywhat can be done!"
then taking out his watch, "It is now twenty-five miutes
past twelve. I will niake use ofd the wagon at the door,
and no doubt we shall. be in time. Mr. West," turning
to the dismayed-looking man, "you will have to go with
me; and-as. we tide:along, you cani give me all the particu-
Iars of .the5 affair."
The old man's alarm. at the proposition was so mani-
fest that Randolph found it would be necessary to quiet his
apprehensions; and he endeavored to .do ,so, although he
disliked, before the daughter, to =evince any suspicion of
her father's complicity with the felony.. He said to-him, in
that calm "sort of tone which carries so iueh force along
with it.-It is imperative that you'go along. No possible
harm can happen-to you if you do. Much harm may be
consequent upon your not going, and refusing to assist me
by givingall the information you possess. Will get my hat
at once. -There is a large old cloak lying alongside the bed,
up-stairs, which you had best wrap around you, for the
night is very damp and chilly."
In a few minutes the noisy vehicle in which sat the two
men was waking up restless sleepers all along the-line-of
its travel to the police station nearest to the house of Mrs.
Van Osten.
It did not take Theodore-Randolph long to get at all
Mr. West knew of the affair, and by the time they reached
the end of their ride he was enabled to make such a state-
ment to the Lieutenant of Police, without implicating his
companion, that a force was immediately despatched to the
neighborhood of Mrs. Van Osten's house.-with what result,

THE PRINTqiUR i DAUGHTER.

and diow opportun the e isis of thwi-ival, has been
already elted.'
The old man, his persona fears subsiding, wa8 now
completely jadeoo-t.and itoccurredto Randolph that the
best thingtio do wa to"tA6ke hii home nAid see that he was
put tio bed. 'e as willing'thata itthould be eso, and was
driven thither."With difficulty the iniatstof thedower
part of'thehouse were arioused,tandthe mian came grutmb-
lingdownfstairs, at being awakened inthe middle of the night
He however promised he would see his   tenant  corn
fortable&amp;" a  nd Radlh, anxtius about what might have
occurred at Mr Van OtOn's, left himnin his care and drove
filrt back to the station hoeuseheald, what she reader
knows-and then, on furiously, to Mr. Brown's late home.
VissWest was anxiously awaiting him; and though
dreadfiilly shocked atithe neWs,felf thankful that the rdbbery
had been'prevented. Her gratitude to Randolph mfay be
imagined.
He then told her she must seek some repose;--and,
leaving the sitting-room,' in which was a large comfortable
settee, for her occupation, he himself watched the remain-
der of the night in the chamber by the corpse.'
Near four o'clock an alarm" of fre occurred ;-and the
boy, who could not sleep, went to "see Where and what it
was. He soon came back with a pale face and much terri-
fied;-and hurrying upstairs to Mr. Randoph, told him "the
fire was Mri Westv'house! and it was said an old ian was
burned to death there, in his bed; that he did not get quite
up to the door hinself-but when he heard what was re-
ported he immediately in home."

11 1


Randolph hastnd oubte ascertaiu t     trth, and
found that it was as the boy had stated. The.mqrbip
old man was cert   yburattodethihad been put to
bed, and left there, as it Was thoughashe' hd in a
conple of hoursafterwards thehouse p as1in flames;-the;
ire havingorigiutedin1hisoroom.  b   oficifpr n1atehes
hkitualy lay upon his table ;--and tothse innocent incn-eu
diaries, wrelessly lying about, the apident wa doubless
attributable, as' are most of the fres chronicled as the work
of hardened wrtphes.
A fow charred jand scarcely $ecogisable 'eliesof
hnumapiity were all that was left of Joseph West-- nd with
feelings of horr9r thp beholder turned from the sickening
spectacle. '
Terrible was thq news the young man had now to com-
municate to the daughter. He feared, after the night of
continued             q:itenegghe effect it migh1 have uponhe,
and still its annoucement could not be long delayed  At
length, firt givr0,g all proper direction as to  e recovery
of what remains " were possible of the old man, he
resolved ,to tell her, assoon as she had partaken of some
refreshment, in the.,morning. The interview was heart-
reuding in the extreme, and her great grief was, tha "all,
witxut repentance, her father had sunk into his dishon"
re4 4rave "
During   . teafternoon of' the, day succeeding the
attemptedxrobbery, Theodore Randolph was sent'for, profes-
iongdly, byrsa, Ygn gten. He folder recovered from
the effects of, the horrid scene through which she had

THE PRIMER 's DiAGUlTER .            9
so lately passed-ain, ith her oleir itellkt altivdle, ale
to- reason and judge what had best be doe under the
present ircmstances. Her old counsel   and friend, Mr.
Campbell, was also iesent
She had recognized Chary the' night beforenand
wanted to act toias him in suidh  a   as would ensue
good, if possible, to the young Ian  One of the policemen
had followed hinm and observed his getting into hist retreat,
andsince had contrived not to lose sight of hiI. All this he
had confidentially1 told her, and, being"urged to secresy,
kept the information 'to htself; hoping. out of it to make
money. That Charleywas thoroughly frightened there
could be no kind of doubt ;-but whether it would be beet
to arrest him was the question about which information
and counsel Was desired, to enable her to decide.
Mrs. Van Osten said, 'sorrowfully  "she felt con-
demned at the thought that she had not heretofore acted
towards the poor youth-as a kind relative should, have
acted; and thati, if the disgrace of having his name mixed
up with the affair could be spare him on'his olvn account,
and that of the family, too, she would be befter pleased
than to incur the public exposure consequent upon his
arrest and trial.
Mr. Campbell and Theodore smiled at each other, and
explained to her that it was "the easiesithing in theworld
for the profession-to-stop the proseution of asuit!fl" and,
"that even the publicity of the arrest mightbe avoided.
The young.iau would feel if this course was pursued com-
pletely helpless-and then, from personal interviews, they
could judge what it would be best to do." After

I

j I


96

LIZZIE WT;

I.

1

this representation, to arrest Charley  as t  plan upon
which they determined-
The gepem    sent 1o  acarriage,and getting into it
drove to an Alderman's who immediatey gave thenithe
desired warrant. They stated tohim thatthey did not, as
yet, wishany publicity given to the atter as far as the
young: man was-concerned in it, and ,then went after the
officer who knew, where Charley was hiding, and 'whom
they had promised to meet.
The poor felt bad remained in the stable until noon
and then cautiously made his wAy qut,,Of jt, and the back
street, into a more public one. He trembled :at every foot-
step -that approached hint Hj stopped once in at a baker's
and got some rolls of bread, for he was faint with hunger.
After he had eaten them he came againinto the street, but
he did not know where to go. -'Oh, how, thirsty he was!-
heMustget something to drink ;.-and he went in at a
tavern- door, which stood on the corner just before him.
Each; act--and almost eachmotive that influenced .him-.
was noted by the watchful eye of the man who, himself
all unobserved, was on his track.
It wasonUtside this tavern that they now found the
policeman, apparently lounging away his timo and going
every now and then into the bar room to look over the,
newspapers, or to take a drink with a friend. They
beckoid to'himf as-they drove up and conferred together for
a few mothents. He said, "Charley was inside, looking
very sorrowful. That he had drink -ut little; and he
couldn't help pitting the 'poor devil!' "
Thebyput intorlhis: hand the Warrant, and told him

"tihey wished hinm t make the arrest. asprivate as possible,
and he would be well paid for it;-then to bring the prisoner
immediately to the carriage, the door ofwhich would be
left ropen, but that tey would go into the tavern first
themselves, as if to get something, and he was to com  in
after them. They would join him and the prisoner in the
carriage afterwards, and drive together to the, house
of 1rs. Van Osten.",
They went in 'nd walked up to the;bar. Charley was
sitting on a ,tool with a Pewspaper hewas not reading,
before him., He started when the door opened and looked
as if he was going to run. A minute afterwards another
door, which was on the side of the room, was opened by the
officer who walked straight up to him. The young man fied
his eyes on him with a horrified gaze, and they dilated wider
in terror, as he approached. The man held out the warrant
and said, In a low voice, "Charles Wood, I.arrest you in
the name of the Commonwealth." He sprang up, upsetting
the stool on which he had been sittingdeaped upn its legs
as it lay horizontally on the floor, and brandished a stick in
his hand, which he had caught at, as if in defence, It was
but a momentary ebullition. 'e then sank down overcome
on a seat, aid, -leaning his head upon a table, gave himself
up to utter despair.
It was all over so soon, that an hour' had nt passed
from the time- they had left Mrs. Van Osten's before th
were back again. The guilty man could scarcely get up the
steps-- his knees smote together under himand he looked
unutterably wretched.
Mrs. Van Osten had the partyushered into the library

ii
C'

97

THE PRINTER' DAUGHTER.

1


98                LIZZIE WEST;
where she awaitedthem. They took their seats in silence;
the servants We dismissedand the do er carefully
closed after them.
"Charles,' said the" old ladygfirstpeaking and the
tears glistening in her eyes  Why isthist  How is it
that you'arese lst to all that is iight?"
His ,head had -,snk low upon his breast so that his
face was concealed from view; and he sobbed audibly.
But,, length he answered:MA" I have been very wicked I
know-yet I have no one to care for me! Theian that is
dead had me iahis powe and made me do what he pleased.
Oh that Lwas dead, too! '*
Tears stod in the eyes of every one of them, and he
centinued-    nt glad now that I am arrested: and that
it is over  I am willing to suffer' the penalty of the law.
I will work-yes, gladly, at hard labour for my term of
years-if only I could be placed free and so I might earn
a 1hymg.
They wereall a fcted-sand, for some minutes no one
could speak--Mrs. Van Osten, regainhig her self-possession,
then said
"harles, your fathermas a little boy often played with
my children, and, maybe, I have not cared as a 'relative
should have cared for your welfare; but now? you shall
haveanothef chance. I will save you from going to
prison, and Tshall put fou in a way of earning your own
living. Nafr"ore-T will "-or you that I have confidence
in your intedttion th do what ,i right-and will intiust to
you some business - of my own, involving the charge of
money.- Mr. Canipbell and Mr. Randolph "-turning to

THE PRINTER'S DAUGHTER.

99

those gentlenen-" I want myrelative, Mr. Wood, to start
for the West on-some of my business, and to night. Will
you see that there shall beno impediment?  I will be his
bail, if necessary, for any-amount."
The 'gentlemen bowed:~and  heley got up from' his
seat to thank her,-but he could not stand, and fell on the
floor ;-yet, he dragged himself along, and, stretching out
his arm, said-
"'They shall cut this offt ere I wrong you of a penny.
I an saved! Oh I I arM saed'! and God will bless you
for this geat kindnesM!"
The Pilgrim inJohn Bunyan's wonderful old Dream
Book, toiling up the Hill Difficulty, found its ascent not
so hard as the poor wretch finds it to get back again to the
forsaken Path of Virtue. The way is full of thorns and
jagged rocks that pierce and bruise. To grasp that hand
stretched out for help, though red-stained, will not hurt
thee, proud "walker on the other side !"  But if nothing
else, at least look kindly on him as he struggles upward!
and, as thou valuest thy own soul,-.--stoop not to pick up
the stone to "cast at him!"  Angels, unseen, minister to
him:, and his eyes once- fixed on the palace Beautiful,
God helping hin, he shall reach it!


100

LIZZIE WE ST;

There were two new graves opened in the church-yard
-each on either side of thespot where lay Lucy Ashton,
West; - in one was deposited all that was recovered-
from  the fire of her iisband-and, into the other was-
lowered the body of, Daniel Brown. The old hunter slept
where head wished to be uried.
In the little back room, with its low ceiling and home-
ly but' comfortable furiture, were assembled several of the
persons of our Narrative after the funeral was over, to hear
the reading of the will of Mr. Brown. Old Mrs. Ran-.
dolph had attended 'it because Theodore wished her to do so,
and the sorrowful face of the beautiful girl who wept for
her two fathers, and.whom he loved, won its way at once to
the mother's heart. 'She kindly ministered to her grief,
and found half the pang of her disappointment was already
over. She sat in the old BostE-rocking-chair.-.-which,
cushioned, is one 'of the most comfortable seats that has
yet been devised-and, on the settee beside her was the
orphan girl.' The store boy and the nurse, with Mr. Ran-
dolph, completed the' company.
He took a key from his pocket, unlocked alarge escri-
toir, half-bureau and half-desk, that stood' in the room,
and produced therefrom, for the first time, the will. Judg-'
ing what its contents would be from the words the dying
man had spoken, he had not, before, looked over it. He now
commenced giving it his serious attention. After he had
read a few lines of it to' himself a look of wonder spread
over his face and, with a trembling hand he picked up

I

1

from the desk a Parchment Paper which had fallen from
the'. envelope.  Suiprise, the  most' profound, -then
wrote itself upon every 'line of his countenance.  He
looked again at the will ;-ran his eye a secondhand a
third time over the parchment F--referred to other papers
contained in the or-iginal envelope.--and, pressing his hand
nervously up to his- forehead thought earnestly, and,
for some time longer, was silent.' At length he seemed
to have come to a conclusion, rose up from his seat, and
walked to where his mother 'was sitting, and close to the
settee,

"Miss West, I find, to my great surprise, by this will
and these documents that you are one of the largest heir-
esses in the country!"
She raised her eyes to meet his inquiringly, and in
wonder ;-he continued:--" A tract of land-as a farm
Mr. Brown bought and once worked it-has grown' into
immense value. It lies within the bounds of the city of
Cincinnati, Ohio. It is all unbuilt upon, but streets run
through it;. and the taxe have been regularly paid up, so
that the title is unimpaired ;-several building lots appear
to 'have been sold from time to time, to furnish sums for
that purpose; and to all this property you are the
undoubted and indisputable heiress."
Her face worked 'all over convulsively ;-and then,
stretching her hand out towards her informant, she said':
iray   od ive both of us wisdom to use this wealth' aright,
for the happiness of' others, and our own good
The old lady, as the wonderful news was comprehended,
hysterically laughed and cried  but as soon as her feelings.

,

T H E P R I t T ERA'S D A U'GH T E R.

101


,'I

102

LIZ Z I E-W E 8 T;,

would permit it, she;said; "It was all just as it should be !t
that her son ought to berich;for he was the best young man
in the woIrld-.and that she felt ,assured, always, something
like this would happen to him."
o the shop-boy Miss West gave the entire store and
futures, and thus started him in life; and,. to the nurse,
the housihlid furniture of the humble establishment,
excepting the escritoir-which now occupies a conspicuous
place in the library   of the suburban   residence of
Theodore Randolph Esq., a short distance out of the beau-
tiful "Queen city of the West."
From that home of elegant refinement goes out an
miluence that shall tell upon all time.   Towards it
are directed eyes dimmed with tears; -the child of
poverty blesses it,-and, as a Star of Hope in a night of
gloom it shines. to cheer many aching hearts-and. she,
its gentle mistress, seems a sister of mercy sent to
.speak words of consolation to all the wretched within
her reach of our common brotherhood.
Thus -lis, blessing and blessed, Mrs. Elizabeth
Randolph-and her pathway is as a brighttrack shining
heavenwards 1- Endurance of trial purified her own
spirit and thus prepared -her for the mission. of love
which she now    performs: 'Heaven   bless her I and
may she continue long among ds-; a synonym of white-
robed Charity that "is kind" that "seeketh  not br
-own is not easily provoked,"! and "thinketh no evil."
THE END.
25 Jan .1860.

'

JUST PUBLISHfl&amp;RND TOR SALE BY
S. C.- LAMJB, 310 CHESTNUT STREET,
PFmLAD1 LflfA.
TILE LOTTERYI TR ET
*                           OR,
THE FORLORN HOPE;
A TALE OF THE PRESENT TIMES.
DFP TI M             C Et
B Y PAUL t-11eitHTP.R;
Author of "Lizzie West; the Printer's Daughter."      "Eliakim
Grubb ,ilaq. Money Lender;" ete., etc.
"The Lottery Ticket, or The Forlorn [ope ;" is in our judgment,
after a perusal of the proof sheets, the title of one of the, most captivating
and affecting stories we have ever read. We have to thank its talented
author not only for the intellectual and sentimental treat which he has fur-
nished us; but more especially, because more important, for the contribu-
tion to sound public anorals, which the work affords. Son of the scenes
of harrowing poverty and anguish will touch the heart and draw the test
from all who sympathize with the sufferings andaorrqws of the poor,though
increased, in this instance, ten-fold, by that foul and pernicious spirit of
lottery gambling, which is here laid bare, while the hypocrisy and sancti-
monious pretensions of, the heartless speculator in the sufferings of others,
and the brilliant episodes of extravagance and fashion, mark this as one of
the most dramatic and effective books of the day. Philadelphia Topic.
Qamden Democrat.
We have read this recent publication twice, and with the deepest
interest. The descriptions are graphic; the language of the book excel-
lent; and the whole story powerful in expression and full of pathos. The
author is not unknown to the world of letters; and has told a touching
lastt too true) story, an4 one that will be remembered by every reader
for its sorrowful truth, and its beautiful delineation of the gentler shades
of character.
Let every reader of the Democrat buy this book, and he will not accuse
us of exaggerating in its praise.


(104)
The   following   noticee  of   " THE   LOTTERY     TwKET"
was received     by  its publisher     from   DOCTOR    REYNELL
COATES, 4 short time After the iSue of the first edition
of the work:
"The downward tendency of that species of literature, if such it can
be called, with which, in shilling or two, shilling doses, the masses of
American readers are now continually flooded awakens keen regret in the
minds of all the true friends of society. - Not a few philanthopists would be
glad to see it altogether suppressed, in view of the 'terrible demoralization
of whichit is the parent; but, this is impossible. The insatiable appe-
tite of twenty prolific millions wid be gratified, and, in the absence of
healthful food, will seize upon the poisons.  Reform, then, difficult as it
may be, not destruction, should be the object of those who would correct
the. evil. * This consideration has. given to,:this unpretending story an
importance in our eyes, to Which, otherwise, it m eight not. have attained.,
While utterly' divested of objectionablee thouglht'or description, it enchains
the attention and aiouses the sympathies of the Romance reader to an
extent that must render it highly popular, and we are not'surprised that a
second editioli follows the first after an interval of a very few- days. , The
tale presents a deeply affecting picture of domestic distress and ruin, resulting
from one of the worst curses of society, and the principal incidents, while
sternly truthful are rendered startling and dramatic to a degree that fully
warrants the proud nom de plume which the author has seen fit to assume.
The moral 1is0mostexcellent, and the tendency practical so that we hope
to see it followed by miny other stories from the same able pen, and cheer-
fully, recommend i1830o the real friends of their species, as a pioneer in the
important work of rendering that .most powerful lever, popular romance,
an instrument of moral advancement instead of degradation."

Ii

THE CHRISTIAN OnszRvzn, or PHILA., says of it :-" In a very inter-
esting story of some ninety pages' handsomely printed in large type the
author delineates the pernicious effects of th  system of lotteries which, in
defiance of law, are destroying the peace of many families in every part of
the country. * * * *  It is highly commended by literary critics.
THE DoLLAR NEWSPAPER says :--" The Lottery Ticket; or, the For-
lorn Hope, by Paul Richter, is the title of a pamphlet volume covering
an interesting and affecting story of the times, the whole .being liberally
illustrated. The author has.a good purpose in view, and if he shall sge-
coed in winning over any of the many confirmed lottery gamblers, -he will
not have written without his reward; for of all crimes not openly con-
demned, this is the most seductive and impoverishing."
THE SUNDAY DISPATcH says ;-" The Lottery Ticket; or, the Forlorn
Hope, by Paul Richter.    We have in this story an interesting and
most excellent contribution to good morals and pure literature. The
evils of gambling in lotteries are set forth in a style which is calculated to
highly interest the reader, to ,affect the better sympathies, and to have an
influence upoi the better resolutions of those who may be tempted to give
way to a fascination which, with many weak minds, seems irresistible.
The author has presented some painful and affecting pictures in the course
of the story.  His command of.language is perfect, and the style is chaste
and appropriate. 'The Lottery Ticket ' will take rank among the best
of modern tales, and we commend it heartily to general attention."

'I

(105)

The following commendations by the Press of 4THE
LOTTERY TICKET, ORk THE FORLORN HoPE; " have appeared
in the several newspapers to which they are accredited:--

a


(106)
THE SATMURAY EVENING POST says :      The Lottery Ticket; or, the
Forlorn Hope, by Paul Richter, is a tale showing up the evils of lotteries.
'The author's purpose is good, and his story shows warm sympathies with
the poor and needy."
TilE PaS sm     N   - IQunEusays of it :-" The lottery Ticket.-
An interesting pampblt, with the above title, has been laid on our
tables  It contains a thrilling tale, which aboupds with simple,and pathetic
incidents, that are true to nature and the -sympathies of the human heart.
The moral and religious tendencies of the story are pure and ardent, while
the dreadful evil of 'Lottery Gambling'I is denounced in scathing terms,
and developed in fearful and tragic -events.
The following." WAAT LoTTERIElS Do,'-has been clipped by us
from a late number of t6e PREsBYTERANi and, as it bears 5o relevantly on
the subject, we here insert it
Ten persons engagbd in thle sale of lottery tickets were arrested in
Cincinnati, Ohio, lately. 'The Gazette says :-The affidavits upon which
warrants were issued for these parties were all made by Frederick Toden-
bier, a German mechanic, who relates his experience in the lottery business
with emotions  He says he has been purchasing tickets for years-that
he has spent all he earned, and all he could borrow, in these ruinous
speculations-that he has impoverished himself and family to such a degree
that they have frequently had to live upon a single meal a day, and that of
the most scanty character; in short, that he had become almost a maniac
upon the subject of drawing a prize, and at last getting his hard-earned
money back.  He has been driven to the verge of despair and destruction,
and having become convinced of the wide-spread ruin which the lottery
business is inflicting upon the community, is determined to do his utmost
to break it up. Todenbier assures the officers that there is at least a
hundred within the circle of his own acquaintance, who are daily spending
their earnings in the vain hope of eventually drawing a fortune."

Mon LOTTERY BusnEss.     We take the following slip from TnE
UNITED STATES' GAZETTE AND NouTH AmERoiAN.       "A young man,
named Benneville Kline, in the employ of a broker in this city, was
arrested in-the Office of Blood's Dispatch, in Fifth. Street, above Chestnut.
The arrest was made upon a warrant issued by the Mayor. A large num-
ber of letters directed to the employer of the latter were seized. The
youth and the letters were taken before Alderman James B. Freeman,
where the prisoner underwent an examination, and the letters were opened.
It seems that the young man, who was .arrested, was in the employ of a
certain firm in this city, and that the said firm is heavily engaged in the
sale of tickets for the Delaware and Maryland Lotteries. The correspond-
ence between the firm and its agents has been carried on through the
medium of Blood's Dispatch, and the returns from these agents were in
the letters seized, as above stated.  *  *  *    Some of the letters
had attached to them the autographs of members of the bar; and others,
who would not like to see their names figure in print in connection with
the vending of lottery tickets.  *  *    *    *     Michael Kline,
the father, was subsequently arrested at his office, in Race Street, above
Third. They were held in $2000 bail each to answer. The principals in
the business are not yet taken.


  
             
         
       
   
