
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Life of General M. D. Stanley, .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7086
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  MORTIMER D. STANLEY. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               THE LIFE OF GENERAL M. D. STANLEY 
               AN AMERICAN MILITIA GENERAL: 
               THE CELEBRATED ROU, SWINDLER, PICKPOCKET, AND MURDERER. 
               WHO WAS EXECUTED AT VIENNA, AUSTRIA, SEPTEMBER 17, 1853. 
               COMPRISING DETAILS OF BOLD DEEDS, DARING ADVENTURES, AND THRILLING SCENES IN THE CAREER OF A VILLAIN. 
             
            
               PUBLISHED BY A. R. ORTON: 
               BALTIMORE, PHILADELPHIA, CINCINNATI AND ST. LOUIS.
             
            1854. 
             
            Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1853, by A. R. ORTON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of New York. 
          
       
      
         
            The life of General M. D. Stanley, 
             
            GENERAL STANLEY. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               MORTIMER D. STANLEY was born in the pleasant village of G--, in one of the most fertile and romantic counties of the state of Ohio, on the 20th of February, 1822. His father was a wealthy mill-owner, and much of the property in and around the village belonged to him. Mortimer, therefore, received not only one of the best educations that the noble institutions of Ohio afforded, but was early introduced into the most respectable, polite and refined society. His natural talents made him susceptible of acquiring and retaining knowledge; so that Mortimer soon had the fame of being one of the most brilliant and promising young men of his time. 
               His education was perfected at Cincinnati, where, by his splendid acquirements and graceful simplicity, he won many friends. As soon as his father thought Mortimer had finished his studies, he sent him to Kentucky, there to receive his first lesson in commercial life, from his uncle, a wealthy and influential gentleman in Louisville. Here Mortimer loosed the trammels of youth, and walked in the unpaled limits of manhood. The young man left no opportunity unimproved that would develop his mind, and add to his mental and physical accomplishments. He soon became the beau ideal of manly beauty, handsome and intelligent, refined but effeminate; blessed with a mind ready for thought, and a body active with physical strength. In short, there were few young men in the west, who possessed so many natural and acquired graces, as the brilliant, but ill-fated subject of this memoir. 
               He shortly afterward entered as a subaltern officer, in a military company in that place, and was soon distinguished for his perfect discipline and soldier-like qualities. He was rapidly elevated from post to post; until at length, in the course of a year or two, he became brigadier-general in one of the best rifle volunteer companies of the west. His uncle, who was very rich, did a large French trade in Louisiana, and was therefore desirous of his nephew's becoming acquainted with the French and other European markets. He proposed to the young man that he should visit Europe immediately, if he desired, and, at the age of twenty-three years, Mortimer commenced his career in the brilliant but profligate city of Paris. 
               Every thing in the shape of travel seemed to please him, and as he skimmed the ocean, it was, to his fanciful mind, floating on a sea of pleasure. When he landed at Havre, he was delighted with all he saw and heard; and being a very excellent French scholar, he found little difficulty in appreciating every thing French. 
               For the first few days, he was lost in a transport of wonder and delight, and could do little save gaze at the buildings, and lounge about the crowded and narrow avenues of the city of pleasure. In a few days, however, he recovered his equilibrium, and made visits to all the interesting places he could meet. He began to take an interest in the relics of the past; and his time was spent in searching for historical reminiscences, which are now rare in Paris. He then became interested in science, and went to all the lectures-law, physic, mechanics, astronomy or divinity-at the different academies, bureaus, and colleges. For these his appetite became moderated, and he found great delight in visiting the picture galleries of the Louvre, and other public and private collections, and acquired a taste for art. But his mind became so filled with all he saw, that he partook of that thirst for variety in pleasures and amusements which distinguish the Parisians. He then became interested in politics, and was soon engaged in the fiery debates of the clubs and cafes, which preceded the immense shock of February 10th, 1848. Till, further on, he acquired a taste for operatic and ballet performances, and became one of the most brilliant critics of the hypercritical city. 
               How much of all these things benefited Mortimer, we shall learn in the progress of his history. Up to this time, he had stood, as it were, alone; he had not engaged with that society which makes Paris an Elysium of pleasure. As he had plenty of time and money to spare, it is only natural to suppose that he found much amusement and company, and might have whirled in the giddiest and gayest society, if he had so desired; but his inclinations had not, as yet, ran that way. However, he found much enjoyment in the billiard room, where he soon became initiated into the French carromb game. Ultimately, he was introduced by a friend, named Alphonse Decroix, an intelligent Frenchman, to cards. He delighted Mortimer, because he was so thoroughly acquainted with all the pleasures of Paris, and could so well anticipate his appetites. He knew the residences of all the actors, and they were open to him. He was a friend and familiar of artists, sculptors, and students; was on visiting terms with the most charming professional ladies of the stage, in opera, drama or ballet. Moreover, he was such an accomplished gentleman, and had such a thorough acquaintance with every thing American, and talked the English language in such a complete and finished manner. It was from his acquaintance that Mortimer became a man of fashion. He commenced by degrees; his dressing, which had previously been respectable, now became outre. He danced at every ball, was present at every concert, and first man on opera nights. 
               As it was understood that Mortimer was an American, and, of course, had money, he was not alone tolerated, but courted and pressed upon for his society. His friend Alphonse, who had the honor of being his chaperon, while he professed to be doing Stanley great favors, was really giving himself a passport to that society, which he otherwise could not have approached. We will pass over his midnight carousals, his primary attendance at gaming tables, his wine experiences, and so forth. 
               In the mean while, Mortimer received an affectionate letter from his uncle, who never suspected the course of his nephew; for the latter was always prompt in replying to him, and adroitly filled his communications with moral sayings, scriptural quotations, and long dissertations upon his indebtedness to his uncle. But, we said, a letter came, in which was announced the melancholy fact of his father's death. Scarcely relieved from this sudden news of the almost as sudden demise of his parent, his uncle wrote him another letter, telling him that his father had desired all his property to be turned into cash, and his portion of it was to be placed in the hands of Mr. Stanley, which would entitle Mortimer to a co-partnership in his uncle's business. This news afflicted Mortimer, for he never anticipated returning to America at that time; and as his funds had got low, he scarce knew what to do. He had plenty of money, but his father had chained it up from him. He, however, decided upon consulting with Alphonse, who said it was the easiest thing in the world. 
               "See," said the crafty friend, "I will personate a merchant of this city, recommended to him as a cash buyer of my goods, and catch him with a pretended bargain." 
               "And pray, what are your goods?" asked Stanley. 
               "My goods! O, I will pretend to sell him a large lot of laces, embroideries, cambrics, and muslins, at less than cost. Now, listen; pray, do n't interrupt. I will pretend to have a large lot of fancy goods, and, as I do n't wish to make known my embarrassments in my own city, I will write to him, offering them at much less than cost price, so as to turn in the cash. I seek this method of raising money. He will send the money to you; and then-" 
               "Good, tres bien!" shouted Mortimer. "By G--, you are a fine fellow; and, lest we should lose so splendid an idea, I will write down a list of the pretended goods, and the prices which you are supposed to have. That is my business, and I understand to a point what the old man will buy. He is fond of buying cheap, and selling dear," said Mortimer. 
               The letter was written and posted, and Mortimer was anxiously waiting for a reply. One evening, he was loitering on the Pont Neuf, his mind running over his past and present character, while his body was leaning on the magnificent balustrades of that stupendous bridge. Few moments of reflection had he now, and fewer did he wish to have; for this one was an interminable period of misery to him. He was almost moneyless, and was waiting for his uncle's reply with that tormenting anxiety which afflicts a man under such embarrassing circumstances. 
               The moon was shining upon the filthy current of the Seine, when a loud splash was heard in the water. In less than a moment had Mortimer conceived the idea of its being a suicide, and in another moment had he dashed down into the river, and after some battling and struggling, he discovered the body, and had caught hold of the hair of the unfortunate person's head, who had sought to end her life there. With arms of iron he grasped the body, and brought it on shore, senseless and almost a corpse. A few foot passengers saw the affair, and assisted Mortimer in his noble effort to save the life of a poor girl, for such, apparently, was the female he had picked out of the deep. Poor in dress, poor in looks and body, but very beautiful. Even then, with her hair matted over her pale cheeks, without a morsel of flush to animate them; with her lips almost blue, and her wretched rags hanging close to her, was she beautiful. Like a statue of grace in marble was she. Every effort was used to bring her to consciousness, and in a few moments she recovered, and was sensible of her situation. Those around her informed her of Mortimer's having saved her, and the great risk he ran in so doing. She thanked him in affectionate terms, but said she wished he had not brought her once more to life and misery; she would have died happily then. In a few minutes more the police came along, and took charge of the girl; but not before she had time to thank Mortimer once more, and whisper in his ear. 
               "I have no doubt you want to know who I am. I am the daughter of the Countess De Campe! Good-by! My name is Clementine." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               The next morning brought Alphonse with a letter to Mortimer's lodgings, informing him that Mr. Stanley, senior, would be glad to purchase his goods; and informing him that he had, by the same post, sent two thousand dollars, or about ten thousand francs, to his nephew, who was then staying in Paris, and who would purchase the goods if they were what he described them to be. Mortimer quickly procured his letter, and there were the welcome funds. Alphonse received one thousand francs for his participation in the affair, with which he felt particularly satisfied; because he knew he should come in for his board and lodging with Mortimer, while his cash lasted. Some additions were made to their respective wardrobes, neither of which was bad before; and, for a few days, they flew about the city, observed, by just the persons they desired to notice them. Mortimer was one day resting on his couch, from the effects of a champagne supper on the previous evening, when his mind recurred to his first and mean robbery upon his uncle, then to the unfortunate girl he had saved from an untimely death, and he chided himself for neglecting her so; but thought he would visit her mother at once, and see if he could not induce her to assist her daughter, actuated, perhaps, by some curiosity to know more about the young girl. 
               He arrived at a splendid mansion on the Rue de Richelieu, which, he was told, was the hotel of the Countess De Campe. The porter, in magnificent livery, showed him into a splendid anteroom, where he found every thing was furnished in the most recherche manner. The mystery became still more inexplicable. In a few minutes, a powdered footman, in still more splendid livery than the first, informed Mortimer, that has madame the countess had not the honor of Mr. Stanley's acquaintance, she presumed he would have no objection to send the purport of his message by him, her servant; and the lackey bowed respectfully. Mortimer coolly asked him for writing materials; when he was shown into another sumptuous apartment, where a magnificent desk, in the Louis Quatorze style, was standing upon the table, with every thing for writing purposes ready. 
               Mortimer simply wrote upon a piece of finely scented paper, CLEMENTINE; folding it, he handed it to the lackey, who conveyed it to his mistress. 
                
               
                   
                     PRODUCTION OF STANLEY TO THE COUNTESS DE CAMPE AND HER LOVELY DAUGHTER CLEMENTINE. 
                  
                
                
               In another moment the servant returned, bringing word that the Countess would be happy to see Monsieur Stanley in her boudoir. This was a most splendid apartment, looking out on a plot of grass like velvet. Here the Countess sat, with a book which she affected to be reading. Upon his entering, she rose to meet him, with a smile and greeting of the most cordial hospitality, not unmixed with embarrassment. 
               "You wish to see me, I understand, Monsieur," said the lady, as she cast her large black eyes toward the ground. She was a splendid looking woman, not exceeding the middle height, but of fine figure. Although thirty-four years of age, her face did not betray the looks of more than twenty-four years. She was endowed by nature, and she lost no occasion to improve its works by art. Her dark eyebrows were blacked by cosmetics, which lent youth to her appearance, and her walk was as sprightly as a young lady's just budding into womanhood. Mortimer commenced: 
               "I have sought this interview, not upon my own account, my lady, but upon behalf of a daughter of yours." 
               "Will Monsieur have the kindness to speak lower?" asked the Countess, in a very pleasing but solicitous manner. 
               Mortimer replied by drawing his chair nearer to the lady's. 
               "She is now in prison," continued he. 
               "In prison," echoed the lady, "what for?" 
               "For attempting suicide," replied Mortimer. 
               "And I can not help her," said she, wringing her hands. 
               "Why not, Madame, may I ask?" 
               "Because she is disgraced," said the lady, in a low voice. 
               "Is that a reason why you should disgrace yourself, by not doing a mother's duty?" said Stanley. 
               "Seeing you know so much of this matter, it is vain to conceal the rest," said the lady. "I am a native of Poland, where marriages occur earlier than they do in western Europe, and I was married at the age of fourteen. Before I was sixteen years old Clementine was born. Her father, my husband, was a Frenchman, and we removed when I was in my youth to Toulouse, my husband being then connected with the ministry of the navy department. There my daughter remained, until she was fifteen years old, and formed an attachment for a young naval officer. We then came into this city-cursed, be the hour-and here I became so engulphed in Parisian pleasures, and the grandeur of my position, as compared with what it had been, as the daughter of a Polish Count, that I lost sight of my daughter, and she has unfortunately fallen a victim to that young but heartless, officer. Alas! I bitterly cursed her, when I learned her disgrace. She left my house, never more to return to it. Now, as I never introduced her to society here, her absence has been unnoticed; but now, should I find her, and bring her home, my disgrace would be great. I should be cast out of that society I am at present living among and enjoying," and the lady burst into a flood of tears. 
               "And Monsieur, the Count, pray where is he?" asked Mortimer. 
               "He died in a lunatic asylum, a few weeks after the news of our girl's troubles were known; he is buried in the rear of the Hospital St. Marie, at Versailles. Ah! Monsieur, I have had troubles." 
               "But, my lady, surely you will not allow your child to remain in prison, for your pride's sake," suggested Mortimer. 
               "Ah! Monsieur, what can a lone woman do?" 
               "You can go with me, and use your great influence to get the poor girl released," suggested Mortimer. 
               "Why, that would at once expose me, and I should be undone," said the Countess. 
               "Well, then, use your money through me, and we can send her into the country, where, at some peaceful chateau, and in the heart of some good family, or in a convent, she may pass the rest of her days." 
               The Countess thanked heaven that the means had been placed in her hands to save her daughter without a self-sacrifice; and after thanking Stanley for the interest he had taken, and enjoining him to silence, promised to go at once with him to the prison, and see the officials, and endeavor to get the young girl released. 
               She ordered her carriage, a close one, and thickly vailing herself, seated herself by Stanley. They left the coach within a few streets of the jail, and walked on foot the rest of the distance. Their splendid dress admitted them with but a very formal query. In a very few moments, Clementine is surprised with the intelligence of "friends," and slowly but wonderingly turns over in her mind the probabilities and possibilities of their being friends to her, and "who can they be?" When she arrived at the door of the room wherein the Countess and Stanley were sitting alone, she was much amazed. Poor Clementine just exclaimed, "Holy Virgin! my mother!" when she fell fainting at the feet of her parent, who, in her child's misery, was excited, lest her dignity should be sacrificed. 
               Stanley lifted the girl up, and a turnkey, who had heard her fall, ministered to her wants; while her mother most vigorously applied her fan to the girl, as a restorative, afraid all the while that in Clementine's returning consciousness she might mention her affinity to her. It was previously arranged that Clementine should be at once set free; the authorities having given permission, as they had no aim in keeping her longer. However, the girl had become an object of interest, particularly to the prison incumbent. 
               It was soon, therefore, arranged. Stanley received a note to M. Laroche, the Countess' banker, to enable him to receive any amount he required, when he should call for it. In the mean while, he lodged the girl in quiet apartments, while he advertised for a family, who would adopt a young lady as their own, upon a valuable consideration. He was overloaded with requests, but ultimately completed his arrangements with a respectable but poor gardener in the environs of Paris. Madame, the Countess, was flattering herself upon having done her whole duty, while her daughter was fast recovering her strength. In the prison, she had been accustomed to regular living, clean and wholesome food, and quite sufficient for her wants. She was filled with joy at the idea of leaving the city, which she thought a hell upon earth, to bask in the sunshine and beauty of rustic life. 
               Stanley mentioned the whole of the circumstances to Alphonse, who never uttered a word until his friend came to that part which informed him of the Countess De Campe having given him an unlimited order upon the banker. Then the accomplished villain, slapping Mortimer upon the shoulder, said, with a significant look. 
               "My friend, how much do you propose to draw upon that order?" 
               "Just sufficient," replied Mortimer, innocently, " to pay these honest people for the girl's keeping, and a few louis annually for Clementine's pocket money." 
               "Bah!" said his impatient friend, "why not draw a few thousands over, say two thousand francs; the Countess will be none the wiser." 
               "Ah! such an act would be villainous, after such unlimited confidence," said Mortimer, in a half-doubting, undecided manner." 
               "You imposed upon your good uncle's credulity and confidence, and now there's a heartless, dissolute, fashionable Countess, overloaded with louis d'ors, and you hesitate to do this!" said Alphonse, with sarcasm. 
               Mortimer, drawing closer to his companion, placed his hand upon his shoulder, and looking up in his face, said, 
               "I should not be much surprised, if your acquaintance and mine would end, one of these fine mornings, upon the guillotine. Alphonse, you are a good looking fellow to others, but to me you appear as an evil genius, urging me on to do bad deeds." 
               "Twaddle," said Alphonse; "be a man." 
               "Will two thousand francs be enough?" said Mortimer, as he held the order up in his hand, turning as if to go out and get it cashed; for he had fallen once more. 
                
               "Three thousand would be much better, and pay you two, and leave myself one. 
               "Adieu, Monsieur Evil Genius," said Mortimer, laughing, as he walked to commit his second fraud. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               The cabriolet no longer rolls noisily over the large stone of the Paris streets, but softly moves on the soft roads leading to those suburbs, which are the lungs of the metropolis, the oasis of its honest inhabitants. 
               "Ah! Monsieur, how pleased I am to leave that cage of wild beasts, called Paris; once more to stroll through the country lanes, and watch the progress of nature, as it works to supply ungrateful man. One bird is worth more for its songs than all your prima donnas. These latter sing divine songs, but are wicked women. The birds sing for no applause; they want no louis; they sing because they are satisfied with Providence. The prima donnas, because they are dissatisfied with every thing else. How beautiful is the odor of these fields! what a change to those muddy streets, under whose depths run pools of filth, which is but a morsel of that filthiness which is left upon their surface, eking out cholera and pestilence to the poor." 
               "You are certainly a philosopher, Mademoiselle; but I never suffered any disease in Paris," said Mortimer. 
               "Ah! but that is no criterion; you are rich, and of course you live in a large, commodious hotel, where the advantages of bath and garden, open air exercises, and indoor ventilation, are advantages you have over the poor," said Clementine, in a voice of much sweetness but earnestness. 
               "That is true; it never struck me; though." 
               "Monsieur has not had his eyes opened by poverty, as I have," replied Clementine, unaffectedly. 
               "And have you been so poor?" said Mortimer, inquiringly. 
               "Very poor," replied poor Clementine. "Some say Providence keeps his punishments till after death, but I have received a bitter installment in this life. You, Monsieur, know, probably, from the Countess, the saddest portion of my career?" 
               Mortimer nodded affirmatively. 
               "After my mother cursed me, I left the mansion, and wandered over the streets of the great city like a lost child, as I was. I had nothing about me but a diamond ring. When the sharp pangs of hunger came upon me, I went into an office, a "Bureau de change des monnaies," and the gentleman seemed so honest and generous that I was induced to part with it for forty francs; although my father bought it for me, while in Florence, and paid three hundred francs for it. That kept me for some time. 
               "In the mean while I tried to procure employment. After much difficulty I did so, in the artificial flower making, at five francs a week. This sum barely paid my board, which, Heaven knows, was miserable enough. The winter came on very rapidly, and the trade grew slack, for there was a change in the public taste in favor of feathers. I, as one of the young hands, was the first turned off. O, what misery was there now for me! I walked week after week through the streets of Paris, and could not get any work. I had no money, nor hopes of getting any. My lodging housekeeper turned me forth to starve. I was forced to beg. Yes, sir; the daughter of a countess reduced to beggary in the streets of Paris! Was not this meeting one's reward and punishment in this world? 
               "Well, one day, in the course of my walk, I chanced to go into an office, to request alms, and there sat a burly man smoking a cigar, drinking wine, and silently devouring a dessert. I begged money of him. He said it was preposterous, I could not be begging, and then paid some ridiculous compliment to my beauty; at which the blood mantled my cheeks; but it was of little use for the beggar to play the noblesse. He then went on in ridiculous orations to my face, with language increasing in impropriety; until, at length, I was so enraged that I lifted a paper weight, and flung it across the room at his head, which it just missed, and shattered a large sheet of glass, instead of his wicked skull. He flew to the door, and hindered my passage out; but I was so excited that I cared not about escape. He called the police, and a captain came and took me under arrest. He was a generous looking man, and heard the gentleman's story, which was, that I had entered his room, asked him for money, and because he refused to give me any, that I had abused, nay, threatened to kill him. I was then taken before the commissary, who almost instantaneously discharged me, and gave the gentleman an admonition not to come there again, as he knew all about his character. I was astonished, but delighted, and the worthy official, giving me a two-and-a-half franc piece, I felt ever so much the happier, and went on my way rejoicing. I wandered about as usual, with occasional good success, but more ill luck. The cold weather came on, and with it that dreadful misery to which the poor of large cities are always subject. I starved on, and then occasionally sold ballads in the streets, and lived upon the small confections and chestnuts around the streets; till at last, careworn, jaded and wretched, I grew so depressed and melancholy that for days. I lay upon my miserable patch of straw, without leaving my attic, until, that night you saw me, I determined upon self-destruction, and went forth determined to end this career of woe. You know the rest." 
               "Here we are," interposed Stanley. "How do you like the house? Wipe your eyes, dear; there's a good girl." 
               "O, charming, Monsieur. What a sweet place! what a fragrance! what flowers! what vines! O, I shall be happy here!" and Clementine wept for joy, as she beheld her new and happy looking home. 
               The honest gardener, and Madame Le Mille, his healthy, good-natured wife, came to the door. They seemed very glad at seeing Clementine. The good matron must needs make a report of her happiness by saluting the young girl with a substantial and high sounding kiss. Mortimer drew Clementine aside, and whispered in her ear, 
               "Your name, henceforth, must be Marie Martel, and no one must know your family, not even your friends here." 
               "As you wish it, Monsieur Stanley. You are my savior, my benefactor; and when I get to be a purer and a holier Christian, I shall pray for you. You are good now; will you pray for me?" 
               This was said in such a simple, but expressive manner, that it touched the tender chords of Stanley's heart; and as he jumped into the cabriolet, and gave the driver orders to return, he thought of Clementine's request, "Will you pray for me?" and even brushed a tear from his eye. 
               Arrived back in Paris, he was very much surprised to see the face of a familiar Kentuckian, who informed him that his uncle was on the way to Paris. He ejaculated "Impossible!" and rushed home to his rooms, where he found Alphonse deliberately smoking a cigar, and enjoying some sugar and water, that famous temperance beverage of Frenchmen. Before Stanley had time to inform his friend of the news he had heard, Alphonse handed him a letter, which Mortimer read, and sank down upon a chair. This letter contained a direct charge of fraud. 
               "We must fly," said the agitated Stanley. 
               "Listen to me; we must not budge an inch. You must feign sickness, and when the old man comes, I will be your particular friend. Leave all to me. You must be almost at death's door, from the effects of thought upon your uncle's loss. Leave it to me," said Alphonse; betraying much sang froid, "and all will be easily passed over." 
               Stanley protested, but the thing was ultimately arranged by his friend, and they were determined to make the best use of their time in the mean while. 
               That night, there was to be a grand bal masque to be given at the Jardin Royale, under imperial patronage. Alphonse and Mortimer decided upon going. The former arranged things. They were both to be dressed alike, but Alphonse was to wear a monk's habit over all, which would prevent his under dress from being seen. 
               When they were in the carriage, riding to the point of attraction, Alphonse said to Stanley, 
               "To-night, there will be present an old German nobleman. It is his first night in Paris. He will be dressed to personate a nobleman of Louis XIV's reign. He has a snuff box, set in brilliants, worth five hundred louis d' ors. That box can be ours, if you have any courage, Mortimer." 
               "What, a robbery? Ah, the guillotine is coming fast!" 
               "Nonsense, We will both engage him in conversation; myself in this garb of the monk, and you in your present one. He is very absent-minded, and may not miss his box at all. You shall take the box and depart with it, leaving me to undergo an examination, and a very critical one. There is an arbor in the garden, where you can put on my cloak, and then you will depart, under the monk's guise, while I will go back into the saloon, and, in my under dress, he will take me for you, and probably he may have me arrested; so, you see, I stand all the risk." 
               "I do. I am agreed," said Mortimer, rather carelessly. 
               The room was soon reached; and amid all the beauty, grandeur, and crowd of dancers, gazers, musicians and waiters, it was impossible, for some time, to discover the gentleman. But at length they came across the old man, who was gazing upon the brilliant crowd of splendid women, when Mortimer, approaching the old gentleman, engaged him in conversation. Immediately, as was his wont, he handed out his snuff box, while Alphonse, in the priest's garb, passed behind the German, and, in a mysterious voice, whispered in his ear- 
               "There is a design on foot to assassinate you, Monseigneur," and he glided away in the crowd. The old man trembled, and, agitated, walked fast away from the spot, not thinking of his valuable jeweled box, he had left in the hands of Mortimer. 
               Stanley hurried away to the arbor, where he found Alphonse, who asked him hurriedly, 
               "Have you got it?" 
               "Yes," was the brief reply. 
               Then Alphonse placed his mantle over the shoulders of Mortimer, who drew the cowl over his head, and withdrew by the main entrance unobserved; while Alphonse hurried back to the gay assembly. There, observing a splendid lady, Alphonse introduced himself, sans ceremonie, after the custom of Parisian bal masques, and was soon engaged in the dance with her. Just as he was escorting her to the refreshment saloon, he was met by the old gentleman, in a great hurry, who said to Alphonse, very politely- 
               "Ha, my noble friend, you will excuse my leaving you just now; but I was taken sick, and had to retire." 
               "Monsieur is mistaken. I have not even had the distinguished honor of an introduction, much less the pleasure of addressing you," replied Alphonse, with the most admirably conceived ignorance of the circumstance. 
               "Why, you are surely the gentleman I was conversing with. The apparel I will swear to; the height, the form, the complexion, every thing tends to make me believe it; the more particularly," said the old gentleman, "as you are the man who borrowed my valuable snuffbox, and has not yet returned it." 
               This was said in so marked a manner that it attracted notice. Alphonse, with the ferocity of a tiger, letting go the arm of the lady, caught the old German nobleman by the throat, and threatened to choke him if he did not recant the charge of his having robbed him. They, were separated, and the old man, much against his will, was obliged to beg pardon, and in a few minutes, Alphonse departed from the ball, with the sympathies of the mass for an injured man. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               Mortimer had become a regular visitor at the hotel of the Countess De Campe; and as he was not a worn-out star in the Parisian circles, she was pleased at the honor of presenting him to the metropolitan fashionables who met under her roof. He was a great card for her. He excelled in every thing which stamps a fashionable man, as, par excellence, of dignified form and carriage, handsome and pleasant countenance, martial air, accomplished in manners, winning in conversation; and versatile in his talents. It was reported by some that a marriage would take place shortly between the brilliant countess and the exquisite American. However, no one doubted but that Stanley was her gallant, and it was really surprising how that acquaintance, so shortly commenced, ripened into such a decided favor. But Mortimer's heart was not kindled with passion for the aged beauty, and merely used her domain and acquaintance for his purpose. Mortimer told Alphonse that he thought, as he had gone so far, it was of no use stopping short, for small compunction. 
                
               "We have now," continued he, "an established position in fashionable life, and let us make use of it. I know a plan by which we can rob the countess of her jewels without detection. What say you, shall we undertake it?" 
               "Of course, but how do you propose to do it, my friend?" quoth Alphonse, with the calmness of a business mind. 
               "By these means: you are aware I am somewhat intimate with the countess," said Mortimer, with a smile. "At least I flatter myself." 
               "Admitted," replied his companion. 
               "Well, then, I can get an imitation of the key of her jewel case. She places it in a secret drawer of her writing desk. While she is wearing her jewels, I can get the key; because I have admission to her desk. You can be somewhere in the region. I can give you the key. You can take it away, and mould a pattern. I will then see you at the front door, with the returned key, of which you will have got the impression, and put the true key back again; all before she wants to put her jewels by." 
               "Right," said Alphonse, slapping his friend upon the shoulder. "You will yet be a bright name in your country's annals." 
               "Yes; in the Lives of the Felons, in the Police Gazette, I grant you," said Mortimer, with a significant look. 
               That very night, the first part of the operation was performed, in the getting of a wax imitation of the key. The next night, without the slightest noise or confusion, did Mortimer extract the jewels, worth over fifty thousand francs. Alphonse kept the lookout. They were not missed from the drawing room, and when they returned to it, Mortimer, with the nonchalance of a villain, sat himself down before the piano, and played a lively overture; after which he sang a song, from the opera of Don Giovani, without his voice betraying the smallest emotion; and, at this moment, he was carrying the baubles in his pocket. 
               His friend Alphonse had been paying especial attention to a Lady Gottheimer, a Dutch lady of some fifty winters-not summers. While seated beside her on a couch, he saw a small case, inlaid with vertu, peering out of her pocket. He thought it was no harm or sin to take it, for in another moment, he fancied, it would fall out; so he stretched out his hand, and not doubting it was worth the taking, he risked the matter, and pocketed it without examination. He escorted the lady to her carriage, bowed gracefully, and, when the coach had rolled off, he opened the lid of the box, and discovered that it was crammed quite full of ten guilder pieces. Perfectly satisfied, he returned to the drawing room, and had been there, conversing with Mortimer some time. All the company had left; and it was Mortimer's wont to go the last. 
                
               "Come,'let's go; I think we have done very well for one night. You have some available, and I some valuable," said Mortimer, as he linked his accomplice to him. Alphonse laughed, and they withdrew. 
               The next morning Paris was talking about the robbery of jewels at the Countess De Campe's soiree. Mortimer tried to soothe her, but all in vain, for the shock left her sick for several days. 
               Stanley, one morning, learned by the newspapers of the arrival of that packet which contained his uncle, at Havre. Immediately did Mortimer commence being sick, and Alphonse assumed the position of physician and friend. He shaved off his prodigious moustache, and immediately took to wearing white neckerchiefs. Mortimer's quarters were changed for the country, or what Parisians call the country, about three miles from the city, where trees and gardens flourish exotically. The pictures were changed for serious ones, and the sick room of young Stanley was certainly a most respectable apartment. 
               At length the old man came. He would have stormed and swore, but the straw spread over the macadamized road, before the house, admonished him not to do so. In spite of all the rage he had heaped up for months, and for weeks had been rehearsing how to give vent to it, he was very quiet. No child could have handled the muffled knocker with more tenderness than did Mr. Stanley. When he came into the room, the steady looks, and the uplifted finger of the pseudo physician entirely floored all his intentions of giving his nephew a blowing up, and dispelled all previous doubts of his honesty. He shook hands with his nephew, and expressed deep concern for his sickness. His soi disant doctor then spake to his uncle as follows: 
               "Your nephew, Mr. Stanley, I regret to say, is very sick, and it is necessary to keep him thoroughly quiet; therefore I have persuaded him, much against his will, to allow me to meet you, and explain his course in this disagreeable matter, which has brought you from your peaceful home into a strange land. Sir, pray be seated." Alphonse addressed him in excellent English. "Mr. Mortimer Stanley now labors under a slight brain fever, resulting from over excitement and fretting in consequence of that sad loss. If he is agitated in any business matter, it may result in more serious symptoms; I would not be responsible for his life. I beg you, therefore, to allow me to explain this disagreeable business. Mr. Stanley, do you need any thing?" 
               Mortimer groaned "No." Mr. Stanley, senior, was ready to hear the doctor. 
               "The man who pretended to have those goods to dispose of was a regular swindler, one of our Paris swindlers, and is probably now practicing similar robberies in other departments of the country. He was acquainted with your name, as he is with most others who possess money in any amount, in this country or out of it. Well, he was acquainted with your business, and thereupon wrote a letter, describing certain valuable, goods in your branch-the wily rascal-which he proposed to sell cheap. Here are the samples which he showed to your amiable nephew," and Alphonse showed the old man a tray containing some splendid specimens of goods, which had been bought then for this very purpose of gulling the uncle. "This, too, is the order of the custom house officers, upon which your excellent nephew advanced him the cash you sent to his care," continued De Croix, "he supposing that the goods were shipped regularly, and in order. Thus you see that your nephew is blameless, thoroughly blameless; and he is now in a very weak state of mind. He is an unexceptionable young man; but, I fear, too much wrapped up in religious meditation for his health or happiness." 
               The old gentleman exonerated his nephew, and said that he supposed no more than that Mortimer had betrayed carelessness. He spoke some soothing words to his nephew, suggested his removal to America, and placed in the boy's hands, as he called him, a cheque for one thousand dollars upon the Messrs Rothschild of Paris, and, much affected, wished the doctor and nephew adieu. 
               As soon as the old man was fairly down stairs, Mortimer jumped out of bed, and was exceedingly sprightly for a sick gentleman. They drank some first-rate wine, smoked a couple of cigars, in the best of moods, for Mortimer felt happy at being exonerated from blame by his uncle, and being replenished with money. 
               Mortimer Stanley and his friend carried on a life of gayety and pleasure, of intoxication and excitement, for several months; passing current among some of the richest and titled families for respectable, honorable men of fashion. Many scenes might be described of a vivid character in Mortimer's career, more calculated to demoralize the public than do them any good, for the information it would impart. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               When their cash was gone, which was not many months after, notwithstanding the large amount possessed by each-Paris sells her luxuries at a high price-finding themselves straitened, Mortimer and Alphonse commenced once more their depredations, by passing a large number of counterfeit bank bills, while playing at the tables of the nobility, and occasionally robbing a young lady of her bracelet or necklace, or watch and chain, while handing her to her carriage, or paying still more polite attentions in some retired corner of a splendid hotel. Many a gentleman's pocket-book was adroitly filched, and breastpin extracted, and if at all necessary for the speedy execution of their work, these chevaliers d' industrie would inflict a severe blow upon a baronet, or count, or minister's head, and leave him bleeding and moneyless in the gardens of the nobility, while they made off with their booty. At a conversazione given by the Duc D' Argot, cards were presented to Mortimer and his friend, by request of the Countess De Campe, whom Mortimer always held under his influence, though he was not as cavalierly attentive to her as formerly; he now bestowing his attention upon a certain actress, who has thrown many of the citizens of America, of more modest pretensions, while on this continent, in a blaze. Alphonse was the companion of a beautiful grisette, Mad'lle Belfour, of noble birth and lineage. Their purses were open to their gentlemen in as liberal a way as their means would permit; and not unfrequently did they find themselves embarrassed by the heavy demands of their gallants. But it was the party at the duke's with which we had to do. The countess was there, and Mortimer was with her as an escort. Judge Delasaire was present, to whom Mortimer was introduced. Some one asked the judge to exhibit to his friend the magnificent watch, set in diamonds, presented to him by his brother judges. He excused himself, and said that, in his hurry to leave home, he had left his watch carelessly lying upon his dressing table. Mortimer, overhearing this, told Alphonse, who was coquetting with the widow of one of Napoleon's deceased marshals, of the circumstance, and he, getting rid of her as soon as possible, ran to the hotel of the judge, and said that the judge had sent him for his watch, which he had left upon his dressing table. The unsuspecting servant, disarmed by the appearance of Alphonse, and his knowledge of the precise locale where the watch was found, gave up the watch, and Alphonse disappeared. This was an ingenious robbery. 
               The tenth of February came, and with it that earthquake which swallowed up all the aristocracy of the perfidious Louis Philippe's court. Alphonse and Mortimer fought like demons, at the side of the people, on the barricades; for notwithstanding that they mixed with, and imitated the manners of these titled rogues, fools, and courtezans, they nevertheless held them in supreme contempt. These two men were rewarded for their bravery and success, by subordinate situations in the bureau de finance. It was not difficult for any one to obtain a situation of trust. The provisional government itself was composed of men who came to the table, and assumed, off-hand, the dictation of national, affairs. Ministers came in, and went out, and very little was known of the financial position of the department; and these men, with officials of high and low degree, used the finances of the people for their own private affairs. It was a regular grab game, and after Alphonse and Stanley had satisfied themselves with the robbery of the public money, they thought it was high time to go. They left Paris by the railroad, after claiming some unclaimed baggage in addition to their own. They traveled for Dover, thence to London. Mortimer was delighted with the British metropolis. The jewels they had stolen from the countess, and other ladies and gentlemen of Parisian fashionable life, the, watch of the judge, and the baggage they had stolen at the Paris depot, had not yet been turned, into money. They were soon "broken," as it is called by the swell mob, or changed for cash, at a considerable discount from their value, by a Jewish gentleman, named Aarons, residing in Wardour street. 
               The first robbery they committed in Cockaigne, was upon one, of the many banker's clerks, who are continually rushing about the city's crowded thoroughfares, with immense amounts of money in their pocket books, or banker's cases, as they are called. These are, fastened by a strong chain, made of brass, wire, around the neck, and the cases are slid into an inside breast pocket. Mortimer's experienced mind soon contemplated this, and grasped the means by which they were to be secured. He purchased, a pair of pliers, made so sharp that they would clip any substance, even of metal. The pair then watched their opportunity, at the corner of one of those alleys which abound in the heart of London. Alphonse was to attack the gentleman in front, while Mortimer was to cut the chain, and carry off the prize from the rear, during the excitement which it was the former's business to arouse. They watched their opportunity. Alphonse caught hold of a young and fashionably dressed young gentleman, who, he knew, was a banker's clerk, and accused him in broken English, quite assumed, of having made improper overtures to his wife, at the opera, the night before. The young man denied the assertion, was passionate, and a quarrel ensued, and a struggle. It being then four o'clock in a winter's afternoon, the reader will understand that it was pitch dark, from for and the approach of night. The clerk fell. Mortimer picked up the young man who had been knocked to the ground, and snatched the pocket book, made for the court, and in a moment was lost; but the clerk, missing his valuable book, rushed upon Alphonse with the ferocity of a madman, and with a firm grasp, held him, crying out, "Police!" They soon came; Alphonse was secured, as party to the robbery, but Mortimer and the book were never found. The next morning, Mortimer read of Alphonse's examination before the alderman, and feeling very unsafe, he packed up and left for Liverpool. The ensuing day, a steamer started for New York, and under the name of Sir Edward Matthews, F. R. S., he sailed once more for his native country. Much to his surprise, when they were assembled at breakfast table on the ensuing morning, he saw a face that struck him as familiar, and one that seemed partially to recognize his. He went to his bed-room, and that familiar face haunted him. He came upon deck, and it being very fine weather, and the sea being placid and clear, nearly all the passengers were promenading the quarter deck. He walked towards that face, he was opposite to it, and he exclaimed as he recognized it, 
               "My God, it is Clementine!" 
               "My protector, my benefactor, Stanley; it is he!" 
               As if by instinct, she knew him, and they embraced. The girl had grown so robust and healthy, that it was only natural that Mortimer should not recognize her; while he, by his passions and increasing years, and metamorphosis of beard, had so altered that Clementine could not at first recognize him. She soon told Stanley her history, and introduced him to her companion as her husband. Stanley was surprised and pleased; for her husband was the naval officer who had, by his improper conduct, made the first years of Clementine's womanhood so unhappy. At the death of his parents, he repented him of the wrongs he had done her, and left Toulouse, determined to repair the only base act of his youth, by offering marriage to that bruised heart, who loved him with so much tenderness. He sought the countess. She made him aware of her daughter's whereabouts, and expressed, her gratitude and pleasure at his honorable conduct, by conferring upon them a life annuity, with a provision, that they should spend their lives in another country, and, for that reason, they were coming to America, the land of enterprise, hope, youth and liberty. Mortimer acquainted the couple that he did not wish to be known as Stanley, but as the English baronet, Mathews. He was, during the passage, called by that name; in the course of which he became acquainted with a Mr. K-- and his lady, who had been traveling in Europe, and who returned with high notions of aristocracy and titles, and who felt supremely proud of Sir Mathews, as they ignorantly dubbed him. Mr. K. was a retired gentleman of the old dominion, with more money than brains, and his wife possessed more ambition than common sense or saving; and before they left the steamship, Mrs. K. had presented to her favorite baronet, a splendid watch and chain, unknown to her husband, which Mathews would "pledge his honor" to wear, as a token of remembrance; and if ever she came to the court of St. James, he would introduce her to his friends and the nobility as a most amiable specimen of an American lady. She was delighted. While Mr. K--, unknown to his wife, was secretly initiated by the baronet into that delightful English game of hazard, which cost him something like a thousand dollars before the vessel arrived at Sandy Hook. 
               In New York did he leave Clementine and her young husband. He left in company with Mr. and Mrs. K--, for their beautiful residence, on the banks of the Potomac, near Harper's Ferry, and became their guest. Sir Edward was the focus of admiration for old and young. Certainly, he was a dashing, accomplished man of the world. But, because he had a title, it was surprising with what admiration did the Virginians look upon him. He was infinitely superior to all Americans; and because some men ventured to think they were gentlemen, in the city of Richmond, who were his superiors in education, blandishments, and appearance, they were considered envious of his fame. Here Sir Edward led a spirited life, leaving all his friends in debt, which were but slowly acknowledged to, until after his real character was ascertained. Ladies made him valuable presents, and those who were too penurious he would steal from. The gentlemen who would not, suffer his peccadilloes in hazard and ecarte, he would borrow from. He kept up a life of dancing, singing, riding, feasting, robbing, extortion and excitement, on a most quiet but extensive scale. 
               The summer came, and with it the watering places. Then was Sir Edward's season revived. At the largest hotel in Newport, Sir Edward engaged apartments, the most sumptuous he could find; and no limit could be had to the credit he got for jewelry, horses, cigars, wines, clothing and other trifles, upon the strength of his baronetcy. Newport's coffers were opened at his touch; and the assembled beauty were happy in receiving a smile from the great English baronet. Never was there such perfect worship of a name upon the part of ladies, as there was at this idea of an English title. He paid his bills with what he made out of the silly fellows who crowded around him, animated with the same eagerness as the ladies would evince for his society. 
               From here he went to Saratoga. A whole lot of young and doubtful and aged misses and widows following in his wake. While the elder ladies would squabble for the honor of escorting a swindler, he was paying particular attention to ladies of a more attractive order, and of youthful pretensions. However, he was rather familiar with Mrs. M-- P--, the most beautiful and fascinating woman of the season, whose husband was not in New York state, but at home on his plantation, in the vicinity of Mobile, attending to some important items. He heard from the pen of a friend, that an English baronet was paying especial and more than friendly attention to his wife, and if he wished 
                   
                     THE DUEL 
                  
                   to preserve his name, he should come on and see to this serious matter. Mr. M-- P-- arrived in very, short time, and quite unexpectedly to his wife. One day, while the mock baronet was paying a visit to Mrs. P-- her husband discovered himself to the couple, and Mrs. P. was so overcome by this sudden apparition that she fainted away. Sir Edward was getting busy in applying restoratives, when M--, who was a fine, commanding looking young man, said, with a deferential air, 
               "Sir, this is my wife's apartment, and you will please leave it. I am competent to her wants; go!" and he pointed to the door. 
               "But," commenced the confused and chagrined impostor. 
               "Sir; if you are a man, you will go," said M--, in thunder tones. 
               "We shall meet again," said Mortimer, in a voice tremulous with emotion. He then took his departure. 
               That night Mortimer did not-could not rest. He was mad with rage and revenge, at the calm but dignified insult tendered to him by the infuriated husband. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               The night was lovely and serene, and Mortimer, a prey, to passion, walked towards the water, upon, whose silent bosom the midsummer moon shone with resplendent beauty. He felt calmness as he looked therein, when suddenly he felt a hand upon his shoulder. He turned, and saw the face of M-- P--, who said, 
               "You said, sir, we should meet again." 
               "I did," said Mortimer, as his heart grew warm at the indignant smile with which P-'s lip was curled. 
               "Now, sir, is an excellent opportunity for you to redress your grievances, if you have any, and I mine; and P-- swelled with wounded pride. 
               "What! without seconds or witnesses?" asked Mortimer. 
               "There needs neither between men of honor," remarked P--, calmly. 
               "But I have no weapons," observed Mortimer. 
               "I have. I saw you from my chamber window, for I could not sleep; and I brought pistols, believing you would be as glad as myself to get rid of such a disagreeable duty." 
               "I would rather do the thing fairly. A duel now, would not be a matter of honor." 
                
               "As much so as in the day. Come, sir, be a man;" chagrined with what he now took to be evidence of bantering upon Sir Edward's part. 
               "I am, sir," said Mortimer, rather nettled at the expression. 
               "I will measure the ground," said P--, coolly. 
               All was quickly arranged; the pistols chosen; the combatants take their position; the signal is given from either mouth, and they fire in exact time. The smoke clears away; P-- reels to the ground, groans, and even while Mortimer is tending him, dies in his arms. He drags the mangled body to the beach, and succeeds in throwing it into the water. 
               Mortimer hurries away, and in a few minutes is in his bed, and before the deceased is missing, he is on his way to Boston. He succeeds in finding a steamer going to England on the ensuing morning. He enters himself upon the books as General Lacy, of the U. S. army. A board the vessel, he becomes acquainted with an old German nobleman, named Baron Lieberman, and his beautiful daughter, who have been traveling on the western continent, during the recent political troubles of their own sublime country. Both father and daughter are enamored of every thing American; and the latter is particularly struck with the charming manners of the now General Lacy. She is a woman of some twenty-two years, and, like her father, a native of Prussia, but for many years residing in the Austrian capital, and never married. Lacy, or Mortimer, ingratiated himself into the good graces of the young lady, and before they arrived at Liverpool, the baron gave him an invitation to spend a few months with himself and daughter, at their residence at Vienna. They left soon for Bremen, and traveling by easy stages, the three, at an early day, arrived in that most magnificent city of palaces and squares, Vienna. Here the General became an object of universal attention: more particularly as the government of the States, and that of the Austrian empire, had been at variance for some time previously, and some hot words and hasty expressions had transpired between the respective foreign offices. Mortimer was invited to the review of some Austrian regiments. The baron was there, and his daughter, both inspired with admiration and pride, at being the recipients of marked attention as the chaperons of General Lacy. It was now generally understood that he was to be married to the beautiful and wealthy Adele Lieberman. 
               The news of this distinguished reception, by the Austrian authorities, of an American, was copied into the United States newspapers. No one could make out who this General Lacy could be, till it was read in Newport, and the people there fixed it as the English baronet off hand; for, since Mortimer's sudden departure, and his supposed murder of M-- P--, the public had been busy in searching out all against him. It was soon ascertained that Stanley was not included in "Dodd's Peerage and Nobility," and that the English authorities knew nothing of such a man. They knew he took the steamer from Boston, for he was tracked there, and upon the register of passengers did the name of General Lacy appear. His bold assumption of the military title, confirmed the belief of every one on the island, that it was none other than the self-styled Sir Edward Mathews, F. R. S. 
               The Countess De Campe having been born, as we stated, in Poland, had been paying a visit to some friends at Cracow, and, upon returning, she made a stay at the Baron Lieberman's. Much to her surprise, she was introduced to her old friend Mer timer Stanley. He trembled and started when he saw her; but as soon as he recovered himself, he told her not to betray him, or he would not alone expose who and what her child was, but if he thought fit, for his own secrecy, he would not scruple to assassinate her. The countess had since learned, from Alphonse De Croix, his old accomplice, how they had robbed her of her jewels, and how Mortimer and he had imposed upon her, with the amount of what they had paid the gardener for Clementine's keeping and adoption. He was moved to this betrayal of his friend for his having left him in the hands of the London police, without making an attempt to release him, after Alphonse's arrest for participation in the robbery of the banker's case. But the countess could not see a young and beautiful woman like Adele sacrificed, and so she confided in her secrecy not to reveal what she would tell her, or she might pay the forfeit of it in her life. Adele promised, and faithfully executed her pledge. The countess departed upon her way, leaving Adele a prey to misery and woe, suspicious and distrustful of him she had thought a paragon of manliness and honor. 
               The next week brought a letter from Major B--, and old gossip of Newport, to Baron Lieberman, in which the career and character of Mortimer D. Stanley, otherwise General Lacy, were set forth in extravagant colors. The poor old man read it, and was so much shocked that he grew sick, and for several days did not come out from his bed-room. When he did, he told Mortimer all that he had heard, and handed the letter to the astonished young man to read. He tore and swore with furious passion. He denied it; he protested his innocence, and the father almost forgave him, and believed him. When Adele came into the room, she said calmly, but in a firm manner. 
               "Father, we must no longer be imposed upon by this man, I have heard sufficient to make me believe that he is a most consummate and heartless man, who has been guilty of a most criminal life." 
               "Then, as a duty I owe to my country and the people, I must have you arrested," said the poor old baron. 
                
               Mortimer, enraged, uttered an oath, and hastily left the house. He returned to his lodgings, and strutted like a caged hyena. He was mad and desperate. He knew he could go nowhere, for the passport system would keep him in Austria. His troubles crowded upon him at once; all his misfortunes came like an avalanche upon him; he knew he was caught and doomed. How changed was he from the calm, cool, collected hypocrite. All his worst passions were now aroused, and he felt that he required all his energies to save him from the misery of an Austrian dungeon. He was determined upon his course. He could hope for nothing while Lieberman lived; and after much false reasoning, he decided that the death of the baron would alone save his life. He knew he had nerve enough to commit the bloody deed; it must be done; that very night would he do it, while the old man slept. 
               The night was dark and drear; just the occasion for a foul and bloody deed, like the enraged Mortimer contemplated. His features concealed beneath a crape mask, and a Venetian felt hat pulled over his brow, enveloped in a large cloak, he emerged from his apartments. He soon arrived at the retired residence of the baron. He knew his bed-room, for the oil lamp distinguished it from the rest. Stealthily did the assassin creep through the corridors. When he arrived at the door of the bed-chamber, a momentary palpitation seized his breast, but his nerve was unshaken, and he felt that the deed must be done. In another moment he was in the room, with his victim! before him sleeping. A thought of the baron's hospitality towards him especially, seemed to deter him, but in a moment, self salvation rose in his breast, paramount to all other feelings. He crept to the sleeping man's couch. The light he blew out, and holding his hand tightly over the aged baron's mouth, with the other he stabbed the old man with tremendous force. A moan escaped the dying man, and then followed another plunge of the fatal steel. All was darkness, and Mortimer was stealthily drawing toward the door, to make his flight good, when he was caught in the arms of some one. He was terror-stricken and lost. 
               "Yes, yes; you have slain my father!" cried Adele. "I heard his groans in my sleep. O, cruel monster!" and she cried almost to distraction, but held him. 
               "Unhand me, woman," said Mortimer, struggling with her; but her grasp was firm; he could not shake her off. 
               "Never; never!" cried the poor girl, frantically. "I know that voice. Help, help! murder! He has murdered my father!" and she coiled around him. 
               Then there was a long and bitter struggle, but Adele held on to the fiend with a grasp of iron. At length he succeeded in shaking her off. He flew to the casement; but the relentless girl, hearing the last groan from her parent, impelled onward, over-takes him at the casement. 
               "Woman, unhand me; or, by G-, I will strike!" said Mortimer, in a voice half choked by rage. 
               "Then strike," cried the poor suffocating girl, as she sank at the feet of her father's murderer. 
               He did strike, and Adele shrieking "Murder! help, help!" but Mortimer could not disentangle himself. The servants now rushed in with lights, and seized the wretch. He struggled with desperate resolution and strength, but there servants secured him and bound him. The officers of the night soon arrived, and removed the prisoner. 
               Poor Adele lingered for several days, and was enabled to communicate evidence sufficient to make his death doubly sure. He was tried and convicted in a very summary manner, and executed in the public square of Vienna, on the 17th September, 1853, before the most dense crowd of citizens ever brought together, who were swayed by the greatest excitement. Probably no criminal that was ever executed, caused more public sensation and execration than this. Never were citizens more desperate or furious. Mortimer died without uttering a word of confession, except in a letter to his aged relatives in Ohio and Kentucky. He asked them to "pray for him." Who shall doubt but they did. So he asked of Clementine. 
               The day of his execution will be long remembered in the memory of the Austrian people; and it is hoped that the miserable life, dark deeds, and fatal and stubborn end, will leave its traces upon their future lives; and that this memoir will deter young men from profligacy, for it often ends at the gallows, and never leads to good. 
                
               
                   
                     STANLEY INHUMANLY MURDERS BARON LIEBERMAN. 
                  
                
             
         
       
   
