
    ----CITATION----
        Prince, Frederic.. The Story of Fort Hill .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7512
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The story of Fort Hill 
            
               THE!

OF
GIVING
AN ACCOUNT OF MANY INTERESTING
ADVENTURES BETWEEN THE WHITES AND INDIANSf
PREVIOUS TO THE SETTLEMENT OF AUBURN,
AND WHEN FORT HILL WAS AN
INDIAN BATTLE
GROUND.
13V       EDENIC PRINCE.

AUBttRN:
PUBLISHED BYP. S. BECEtat
1859.


WITTEN~ BY FREDERIC SPRINCL.

CHAPTER I.
Every remarkable spot has its legend,
fraught with events that have trans-.
pired on its premises. With some,
the crumbling finger of time has erased
the once legible marks which may
have been chronicled of them ;--
With others, oblivion has enshrouded
all record of the soul-stirring scenes
which have taken place, enveloped in
mystery at the time ; and at the pres-
ent, many are still veiled by the muta-
tion of years that have passed.  .
Fort Hill, however, within the lim-
its of Auburn, is. too well known to
the curious, and lovers of the antique
in this region, to point out its locality.
A part of the still visible rampart of
some ancient place of defence which
crowns its summit, and the area with-
in the purlieu or earthy wall, denote
that there is no fiction of its existence;
and thatthe handswhich erected it, did
it for defence in some war either among
the aborigines, or progeny of human
beings which once strode this region.
Be that as it may, Fort Hill stands; the
summit of which,. exhibits a visible
site of past scenes of war, before which
the curtain of time has hung for ages
unexplained, Though altered now

from its once wild and uneven aspect
by the hand of civilization, and cori.
vested into a city cemetry by the cit-
izens of Auburn, and dotted arhong.its
forest trees with beautiful marble
grave-stones and monuments, where
rest the departed of the city and sur-
roundings, it presents the same sum-
mit and appearance of the site of an
ancient fort. Amid the monuments
that tower among the gravest is one
erected to the memory of "Logan" the
friend of the white man ; who it was
said was a Chief of the Cayugas, and
may for aught we know, have figured
as the conspicuous brave mentionedby
the writer of this Tale, in the-perilbtts
scenes experienced by the characters
who form  the heroes introduced.-.i-
That Logan was once the friend of the
white man, history records a speech of
his, bearing uncontestible evidence,
which we quote asfollows:
' Speech of Logan, a Mingo chief,
to Lord Dunmore, Governor of Virgin-
ia,-1774.
" I appeal to any white man to
say, if he ever entered Logan's cabin
hungry, and he gave him no meat.; if
ever he came cold and naked, and he
clothed him not. During the course
of the last long and bloody war, Loa-

'4,

v
"
,;
.
A    J
.?a'

" '
n.,,J
s'        4                  "
1

_                              d
r,                            1                                     s
4


I
I

gan remained idle in his cabin, an ad-
vocate for peace. Such was my love
for the whites, that my contrymen
pointed as they passed, and said:
"Logan is the friend of the white
man."
. "I had even thought to have lived
with you, but for the injuries of one
man. Colonel Cresap, last spring, in
cold blood, and unprovoked, murdered
all the relations of Logan, not even
sparing my women and children.-
There runs not a drop of my blood in
the veins of any living creature. This
called on me for revenge. I have
sought it : I have killed many : I have
fully glutted my vengeance.
"For.my country, I rejoice at the
beams of peace ; but do not harbor a
thought, that mine is the joy of fear.
Logan never felt fear. He will not
turn on his heel to save his life: Who
is there to mourn for Logan?  Not
one."
On the monument erected on Fort
Nill to the memory of this Chief is
engraven the memorable words of the
close of his touching appeal, "Who is
there to mourn for Logan ?"
From the summit of the site of
this ancient place of defence, now, the
eye rests in every direction upon the
works of civilization: The dense
forest which once surrounded it, has
now almost vanished as it were from
the country and where thick roots
supporting the countless trees which
overshadowed the earth, green fields
are now presented to the eye ;-the
morning sun which once shone upon
the vast wild woods around it, now
throws its rising beams upon the
dwellings of civilization, and temples
of worship to that God by whose prov-
idence the rough places are made
smooth. Though time, in a measure,
rith its desolating hand his levelled

the earthy battlements ; and majes-
tic trees, towering high, now stand
upon some parts of them, as sentinels,
having braved the tempests of revolV'
ing seasons, and grown from sprout to
maturity ; they lead the mind back
through the vista of years that are past,
to dwell on scenes that have transpir-
ed beneath their umbrageous branch-
es.
The early scenes of this region of
country, when the brave and intrepid
Sullivan passed through it, with his
dauntless band of continental heroes,
traversing its pathless wilds, opposed
step by step, by the red men who ten-
anted it, have been recounted by his-
torians, contemporary with the era in
which they were enacted ; and of the
bloody track of his detachment of the
revolutionary army through these
once savage wilds, and the -privations
and hardships they endured, records
have been kept in memory by many
of these actors, though the most of
those actors have descended to the
tomb.
It was previous to Sullivan's expe-
dition that the scenes of this present
Tale transpired, to commence which,
we must carry our readers back to the
highest point of navigation  on the
North River, to an occurrence in the
early history of its settlement:-
It was one afternoon in the month
of September, that two Dutch settlers
were standing on the bank of the Mlud-
son, near a small cluster of rudehous-
es.
"See you that far-off sail, booming
up the river ?" said one of them, Der-
rick Van Hetter, to the other, his
brother-in-law,Dan Van Valkenburgh,
a stout, thick built youth, of about
nineteen ; "there are guilders on board
that craft," continued he, and he doub-
led his finger and thumb in a circle,

A TALE OF FORT HILL.      _

peeping through, to survey the vessel
as she cut through the little billows.
"Guilders, did you say, bub Het-
ter ?" asked the youth.,
"Yaw ; or there is on board what
will be its equivalent in guilders," an-
swered van. Hetter.
"It may be so," responded Van
Valkenburgh.
"I know it-I know it," repeated
Better, always positive, whether right
or wrong. "What say you to that sail
yonder, De Faun ?" continued he,
turning to a rather gigantic figure, with
a French look, that af"the moment'
came up by their side.
"What say I to that clipper, down
by the bend of the river ?" answered
De Faun.
"Yaw-has she not the useful on
board her ?" asked Derrick.
"No---she's an American streeker,
that comes and goes, and never lands,"
replied he, "her skipper sleeps with
one eye open-he knows the pirates
of the ocean, besides the land pirates
of these parts, as well as you, Derrick."
"And what do I know ?" muttered
Hitter, reddening up to his eyes.
"Ye know enough to gain a gibbet
yet, for your vile plunders of the craft
that trade here," retorted De Faun.
"Stop there, now," said the youth,"
"no inuendoes against Derrick"-,
"No, no," interrupted Derrick--
"nor accuse me of plunder, when you
are in alliance with all the natives be-
tween the rivers,"
"It's a lie-and he who says it shall
eat his words, and sink or swim in the
stream," loudly answered De . Faun,
.whose countenance all at once swell-
ed with rage while his eyes flashed
like fire.
"I may eat my own words ; but not
swallow yours," said Hetter, drawing
himself up, and pulling his old red cap
more firmly on his head.

"Then take thatcheefrst,' Iid
De Faun, raising his brawny a  rnand
giving Derrick a blow which mighti
have felled a bullock.
"And here I spit it et you/'j angtily
retorted Derrick, as he returned the
salutation with his heavy fist full in
the face of De Faun,
"You'll swallow yet, or choke," re-
plied De Faun, as he recovered from
the blow of Derrick, and threw him-
self forward, grasping him by the
throat with a tenacity that soon eanush
ed the naturally dark complexion of
his antagonist to turn to a deeper hub,
and his eyes and tongue to.start, while
he gasped beneath the iron grip of
his adversary.
"Hold ! De Faun," ejaculated Yan
Valkenburgh, on seeing them, "or by
mine Got-! I'll tear that hand of youi.
from its joint !"
De Faun knew the hercflean
strength of the youth' who addressed
him, but his naturally fiery disposition
was excited, and he still clasped .ha
Better.
"Will you let loose ?" vociferated
the youth.
"No," retorted De Faun.
"Then you'll. not hold you'r pipe
to-night with one hand," answered
Van Valkenburgh, seizing the hiad
that grasped the throatof his brother-
in-law,and with a giant strength erug4
ed the bones until he relaxed hishold;
when Van Hetter, black and strvMgf,
led, fell to the ground almost lifeless.
;"See that, you knave," continue lhe
youth, as with a tremendous etffrtihe
hurled De Faun from him, twisting
the limb he held in his grasp to the
parting of the joint, when he Ie1;
and De Faun found himself ;irk4.
ately some eight or ten feet off. "Did
I not tell you I'd disjoint it ?" he e.-
solutely exclaimed.

A TALE OF FORT ItILL.

2

r


A TALE OF FORT HILL.

4:

A TALE OF FORT HILL.

The gasping Van Hetter now slow-
ly recovered as he-lay on the ground;.
but could not speak ; while De Faun.
writhing with pain from his dislocat-
edlimb, and maddened to desperation
rushed toward the settlement, appar-
ently determined on revenge.
As soon as Van Hetter had recov-
eredsufficiently to articulate, he, ter-
magant like, vented his strangulated
throat with a torrent of epithets a-
gainst De Faun. "Cursed pimp of-
the river cruisers !" exclaimed he,
"low, base informer, and hypocritical
traitor to his neighbors ! Does hey
think to stop a Van Hetter's trade ?-
Here, Dan," continued he, raising
himself up, and addressing Van Valk-
enburgh, "hear me! 'that creeping
slave -De Faun, shall die for this--I
have sworn it."
"No, Bub; take not that from any
one which you can never return. Rec-
ollect, blood for blood may be requir-
ed of thee," mildly replied the youth.
"De Faun must have his time."
"It's short-it's short !" muttered'
Derrick, reeling around, still weak
from the-throttle of De Faun. "But
look, 1)an ! look at the craft, she is:
making for the landing."
"She is, sure," replied the youth.
"Can you see the guilders, Derrick ?"
added he laughing at his brother-in-
law;
"I -ill see them." answered he, fix-
ing his-eyes on the vessel as she cut
her way up the river.,
"Honest, I hope," said Dan.,,
:"Yaw." ironically replied Derrick ;
"ab it see! there comes that cursed pimp'
De Faun, with four of his clan."
"It is so," muttered the youth.-
"Derrick, if they are for fight, "stand
you still, and I will meet them."

CHAPTER. It.
Fearless young Van Valkenburgh
stood, alternately eyeing the vessel
and the approaching party. The long,
low built, black hull of the craft was.
co different from any he was in the
habt of seeing, that he could not con-
jecture what she was. His thoughts,
however, of tiheP vessel were quickly
directed into another channel as the
five men neared him.
Slowly De Faun andi ti four men
came towards the bank, the former
holding his maimed arm and hand
with the other. At a short distance
they all stopped and held an apparent
consultation for some minutes. At
length they moved again towards
where Derrick and Dan were stand-
idg. "You see they were two to one,"
muttered De Faun to his followers.
Dan walked a few steps forward to
meet them, when De Faun, boiling
with rage, and excited with the pain
of his broken, dislocated limb, drew a
long knife and rushed upon him; call-
ing upon the others to come on.
With a dexterous motion of his arm,
the youth parried the blow aimed at
at him by the enraged De Faun, and
immediately grappled in with him,
hurling him in an instant to the ground
with a force that left him almost life-
less. "Am I a mad dog;" said he,
'that I should be attacked in thisway ?,
The companions of De f'aun stop-
ped a moment, and gazed upon the
youth. His eyes were emitting the
excited gleams of his indignant feel-
ings, yet he stood over his prostrate
foe without offering any other vio-
lence. He stood upon his defence a-
lone, and conscious of his. superior
strength.
De Faun stirred not now, for the
force with which he had been hurled

,_

f
'f
3
^i
.y
s
i
4
3
a

to the ground, had stunned him. Vat
Better on seeing the struggle of Day
with De Faun, with hasty stride
moved to assist him, his blood heate
with anger. "Hold! Van Hetter,'
said the youth, "I am sufficient fo
him, and his comrades are peaceable.'
By this time the vessel had round.
ed to at the landing ; and Vai.1 Hette]
turning on his heel, left the spot, pro
feeding towards her, and was soon
followed by the rest, leaving De Faun
laying upon the ground where Dan
had hurled him.
It was now for the first time; that
Van Hetter discovered that the little
vessel had port-holes, and that she
was armed with cannon. She also
was built different from the craft that
occasionally stemmed the river so far
up; and among a crowd of men who
was on deck, they discovered one who
wore the dress of a naval officer. No
indications from the' vessel appearing
to invite them on board, they stood
looking at her until twilight faded a-
way, and the evening sh des mantled
surrounding objects in d rkness, when
Van Hetter with the rest, slowly mov-
ed ,towards their habitations. YGicder..
ing what the object of the craft could
be-.
Early the next morning, the whole
body of settlers were there, .,on the
look out, to watch the motions of those
who were on board the vessel ; on the
afterpart of the deck of which they
discovered a cluster gathered togeth-
er, and among them, much to their
surprise, they saw De Faun.
"What means that ?"' asked V n
Hetter of his brother-in-law.
"I know not," replied he.
Soon after a small boat cont ' ing
ten or twelve persons, among  em a
female, was seen to leave the vessel,
and propelled by two sturdy oarsmen,1

n moved up the river, following the sin-
n uous course of the shore to avoid the
s current, and was soon lost sight of.
d   "That fellow De Faun, has fairly
" bamboozled . you," said Dan to Van
r Hetter, as the party in the boat was
" lost to sight.
-   "Yaw," replied Van Hetter, his
r face reddening with vexation.
-  Nothing more was said by the two;
n and ere the day passed off, it was dis.
covered by the settlers, that Van Het-
ter was missing; and no one 'knew
where he had gone or for what cause
t he absented himself.
It will be recollected that De Faun,
the day before, was left'laying on the
ground. After they had gone, he rose
t with some difficulty anfd made the
best of his way to his rude dwelling,
which stood embosomed a short dis-
tance in the forest, back of the few
houses that were located at the land-
ing. No sooner, however, had night
set in, than he proceeded to the spot
where the vessel lay. As he approach-
ed her, he was hailed from the deck,
and after a few exchange of questions
was permitted on board and ushered
below ; and was seen the next morn'
ing in conversation with the clustei'of
men on the deck.
Towards night the boat which had
left the vessel was observed returning
down the river, with De Faun and
two others ; and soon after he landed,
the vessel got underway, and ww(
soon laying her course down the
stream.
Various were the conjectures of the
few settlers on the shore, after the ves-
sel had disappeared from sight, and
their-curiosity was heighte/d more
the, next day, at finding De f'aun mis-
sing as well as Van Hetter.' The ab-
sence of the latter could not be accoun-
ted for, as he seldom left the settle,

5

R


6

A TALE OF FORT HILL.

IF
}1
Y
F
Z'
r
r N
I
s
i
w
s  ;

I

A TALE OF.

mngnt , while that of the former was so onial navy. He kept rather aloof
cspion, and continuing some times from the others, and seemed anxiously
for wcks, excited but little surprise. on the look out; he was acconipan ied
Day after day, however, rolled away, by a stout looking man in a sailor
and nothing was seen or heard from dress, who had but one leg, and an
either of them.                  athletic African black, who was call"
Of the party that De Faun had ac- ed Moses. These two, the sailor and
copnpanied up the river in the boat, black, appeared unusually attached to
no one had learnt any thing. Some the young officer, whom they address-
of the settlers whose curiosity could ed as Captain. Another of the party
ill brook to remain unsatisfied, after a was a large, middle-aged man, who
day or two, rigged themselves for a had apparently been a soldier, carry-
bunting excursion, and ascended the ing a ponderous sword in a metal
river.. After an absence of a week, scabbard, which he walked with, us-
they returned, no wiser than before, ing it for the purpose of a staff. One of
th ough they had tracked them follow- the others was a timid female, appar-
ing a part of the Mohawk. The dis- ently.about nineteen or twenty years
turbances among the French and In- of age, dressed in a riding habit and
dians deterring their further penetra- grey beaver cap. The leader, or
tion into the interior, they had come guide of the whole, was a stout built
haek vexed and perplexed.        man, having particular charge of the
We -here leave them to nurse their girl,whom he addressed by the name of
1w atisfied curiosity, and carry our Ella, which together with a large
readers to that point where the princi- wolf-dog, belonging to the youthful
pal scenes to be recorded in the follow- captain, and an Indian pack horse,
1,g pages, were acted.           composed the whole company.
A brighter moon and clearer sky  "Here is an old deserted place of
never hung over the trackless, gloomy defence," said Allen, the leader of the
forest which once covered the spot on party,--"none will better answer our
OWleh now stands the city of Auburn ; purpose to stop a short time," cop-tin-
at the era of our tale presenting a wild ued he, turning to the left and striking
uneven face of country, over which into a kind of winding path which
he red men of the Six Nations strode. seemed to lead to the summit of the
Te sun had sunk in the far-off wes- hill, while the rest followed weary
tern horizon, and the dubious light of with traveling.
ight.-all had passed-desloate silence  Having ascended about half way,
reignedaround, scarce unbroken---and he halted, and gathering some dry
rmture seemed reposing in solitude, as leaves and sticks together, set them in
a party of six persons reached the bro w a blaze, with the light flaring above
of a lofty eminence, thinly studded and below them. A noise on the em-
with towering trees, a spot once de- inence soon told the necessity of this
pdminated by the early settlers of this manoeuvre, for su dry growls and ap-
rion, as Port Hill :-            palling yells, with he rustling ofleaves
Among this party was one of noble, and cracking of drsticks, gave evi-
yitefil 'appearance, with a hardy dence that some of the four-footed tert-
looe d sun-burnt countenance, wear-lants of the forest were near. 'he ir
)Y(i,'the alf-dress uniform of the col-aloud breathing could be distinctly

heard, and low, sullen, fearful growls
were, emitted at intervals.
"Let each of the party take a blaz-
ing faggot, until we reach the sum-
mit," said Allen, seizing one himself,
and dauntlessly pursuing his way up
the mount.
CHAPTER. III.
Slowly now the party, each with a
burning brand gleaming before him,
moved along the side of the hill, while
an occasional wild scream sounded a-
bove, and the tramping of animals was
heard as if leaving their coverts.
"Blast these catamounts and bears ?"
audibly exclaimed Bob Walker, one
of the party, the old 'weather-beaten
sailor with a wooden leg, as they ad-
vanced a short distance-"I'd rather
brave a real north-easter with a heavy
sea, or encounter an English man of-
war at close quarters, than be laid
broadside with one of them. Fair
fight, and no biting or gouging, I like ;
but blast me, if I understand this fight-
ing of every species of God's creation,
creeping and upright, that'moves on
the face of his footstool."
"Hold, Walker," said the strong,
athletic personage of the company,
who carried the sword, and whom
they called Bond-"you must look
sharp, or the grapples of some of these
wild inhabitants will fasten on you.
They board one without any ceremo-
ny."
"I know it" replied Walker ; "but,
is it a .fact, Master Bond, that these'
bears hug a man to death ?"
He had scarce uttered the question,'
when a sullen growl just above his
head, saluted his ears, and the grating
sounds of something sliding over the
rough bark of a tree close by him, ar-
rested.his attention, as well as some of
the rest of the party.

f  ]
)))i V
.1
l     i
. yo-
Lt
i
t
1
i .
i
g. t
f
t
S
i'
a,
' t
f;
t
i
t '
lf.

FORT HILL.                     7
"There is one of the gentlemen you
was inquring about. Bob. You can
shake hands with him if you choose,"
said Bond to the old sailor.
Walker immediately raised his blaz-
ing faggot, and discovered a tolerable
sized bear descending the tree. "Bet-
ter keep. aloft, shipmate," said he,
springing towards him and fearlessly
fastening his hands in the long hair
with which he was covered.
The bear stopped an instant on be-
ing taken hold of, and then *began
slowly to ascend the tree, Walker
holding on with all his strength, to
pull him to the ground. Bruin how-
ever, raised himself, and slowly mov-
ed up the trunk of the tree, Walker
holding on with both hands. After
peing raised some five or six feet, and
ending he was in a fair way of getting
farther above terra firma than he wish-
ed with such company, Walker let go
and dropped upon the ground  de
lay a moment and then gathered
himself up from his fall, and eyeing
the ascending bear, drily muttered to
himself, "Blast you, I had a short
ride any-how, you lubber !" and look-
ing around. found he was alone.-
Quickly picking up his fire-brand,
which lay blazing on the ground, as
he threw it down when he seized the
bear, he hastened after the rest of the
party, damning the "black devil's toe
nails," he having received a slight
scratch from one of the hind claws of
the bear, while hanging on to him.
As he overtook the rest, Bond burst
into a laugh. "Why, Bob, your, friend
in the tree seemed to want your com-,
pany."
"Yes, he scratched a slight acquaint-
ance," replied Walker, drily-"but
look here, Master Bond, he's no sail-
or."
"No sailor !---yah ! yah ! yahW---


x
:
'
fi
,
,,
r
s
i'r
t
i

Giess'Massa Walker never - see bea
before," laughingly said Moses, th
black.
"Where should I see one, chalky
D'you spousee I was brought up in the
woods ?"
"Gosh ! no, Massa Bob, guess not,'
replied Moses, with a continued broad
grin.
The party having now nearly reach
ed thegop of the eminence, clamber
ed over aimound of earth which of a
sudden presented itself before them
and seemed to extend in a circular
form enclosing an area of several rods
in diameter, Within this earthy wall
or bulwark, stood several large trees,
whose branches seemed locked and
interwoven with each other, forming
a kind of canopy, high above ; and the
ground was covered with broken limbs
and dry branches of them  and the
thick forest around.
On entering this area, the party
clustered together ; the evening air
surcharged with dampness, was begin-
nin to cause a heavy-dew, which in
distilling showers fell from the leaves,
and branches-of the trees upon them.
"There certainly have been scenes of
war upon this spot," said the captain,
addressing Allen.
"It was evidently a place of de-
fence," replied he. -
"By whom was it erected ?"
"The whites, I believe have never
been satisfactorily informed. The
marks of time stamp it at so remote a
period, that no one pretends to date
its erection. One thing alone is evi-
dent now, that at stated periods the
natives assemble here and take up a
temporary residence; but from appear-
ances, none have visited it for that pur-
pose of late."
The brief conversation of Allen and
the captain, was here cut short by theJ

r necessity of making preparations for
e rendering themselves comfortable for
a short time.
?  All hands immediately were busy
e in gathering something together for a
fire, and in making some kind of tem-
porary shelter for the night. The
I light cloth tent of Ella, the female
comprthion of the party, was raised,-
- and a quantity of dry leaves collected
- on one side for, a couch, and in a few
minutes a large. blazing fire sent its
gleams of light over the enclosure,
which, together with the bright moon,
illuminated the whole area around.
Weary with travelling, Ella entered
the tent which had been made as con-
fortable for her as possible, and throw-
'ing herself on the rude couch, soon
was lost in sleep.
Allen, after having seen that his
charge was as well sheltered as the
circumstances of the place would ad-
mit, and partaken with the rest of the
party some refreshments, wrapped
himself in his thick over-coat and be-
took him to rest.
In the meantime the youthful com-
panion, whom Walker called captain,
retired at some' distance ; and was soon
seen by Bond on the top of the wall,
moving slowly along gazing upon the
moon and countless stars which lit the'
heavens.
"Your shipmate seems to have ta-
ken the first watch," said Bond, ad-
dressing himself to Walker, laughing
and pointing to the young man.
"He lookingout forisqualls, massa
Bob, aint he ?"-bsked  Moses with a
knowing wink.a
A withering frown from Walker,
answered the black, and the words
addressed to Bond, of "belay there,
master Bond, say no more-you don't
know him," immediately stopped the
laughing of Bond.

A TALE OF FORT HILL.

8

v+
V
4:

i
r
7
k
S
.

i
,+
t

A TALE OP FORT U 1II.*
"one question I must ask,        ed his station upon the parapet, though
er," said Beond: "D o  y ou k now wh~o o00 sionally moving from  point, to
he is ?"                         point appearing to be on the look out.
"Aye," replied Bob, "as well as I At length he muttered to himself, "It
know myself-I have known him must be near this place where the
from a cabin-boy to his present sta-girl's father is embosomed ; the whole
tion."~range of county tells me the spot is
"You must be well acquainted not far distant."  And again he mov-
then," continued Bond.           ed to another point upon the ridge,
"Yes," said Walker, "but make fast where an opening appeared far into
now, Master Bond, and say no more. the forest, as if some branch of an
That young man knows his duty up- awful tempest in its desolating track,
on deck, or below: if he is watching had cut its way into the deep recess-
nor, something is in the wind, rely es; for by the bright moon beams he
o itn                            could see the ground strewed with up-
"One would suppose you thought rooted trees and broken trunks, for a
yourself on shipboard," replied Bond. considerable distance. Here he stood
"No," muttered  Walker, "never wrapped in his thoughts, until, the
wad so far out of sight of water in my moon had sunk so low as to shroud
life                             in darkness the opening before him.-
"No, no, Massa Bob never lib so far Pressing his repeater, he found that it
in woods afore," said Moses, looking was past the midnight hour, and he
Bond in the face, "nor me neither." descended towards the smouldering
Another look from Walker, again fire which had burnt down and emit-
silenced the black's tongue ; and Bond ted but little light. Throwing a
finding him in no very communicative quantity of the dry fuel on the bed of
humor, left them and threw himself embers, he sat for some time, when
by the side of Allen for the night; the crackling of the burning faggots
while. Walker stretched himself by awoke the black, who started up and
the fire, and was soon sound asleep, opened his large eyes with a broad
snoring loud enough to frighten any stare, flashing for the instant a de-
of the four footed tenants of the wil- fiance of danger, but on seeing the
derness from molesting him,      cause of disturbance to his nap a smile
The black in the meantime sat look- beamed over his dark countenance.
ing at his master, who could be seen      CHAPTER IV.
by the glare of light pacing to and fro
on the high ridge of earth which sur- There are souls in the human fam,-
rounded them; but soon finding him- ily that are knit together  in such a
self sleepy, crawled along side of Bob, way, by feeling and effection, that
and in a few moments responded to time nor circumstrenaces can sunder
the sonorous breathings of his com- them. True affection will shine forth
paniop.                          in the darkest hour, and show itself
The stillness of the forest around amid the blackest and most gloomy
was unbroken, except by the sound of moments of life, between those whom
a distant rush' of water which came mysterious fate has thrown together.
faintly upon the ear with the soft ev- Disinterested little acts of kindness
ening winq, and the captain maintain- oftentimes are elicited trom a fountain

J


,'
,
 ,
t;,u
,F     f
3
,
'   r
5
i

-
'
+'''+
.
{
}
: '
.t
t i t
i' +
7
1
i    '
,
Y       A
Y
y
i
r
t L     ( 1
t
t  s    '
r     r
F
n     ) Yj
= 5
i.     ,
t
+   .!
i
1
;
.
a4    I.ri'
, '    7

Ii
J1

10                   A TALE OF FORT HILL.
full of virtuous benevolence, bursting the party stirring, and they commenc-
spontaneous from the heart,      ed adding to the temporary shelters
Among the party now encamped on they had hastily erected the evening
Fort Hill, there were three whose in- before. While thus at work, the thick
terest seemed identified, though in clustering branches of the stately trees
character and station they were differ- which stood within the enclosure, be-
ent. The youthful navy officer and came the object of much interest to
the old sailor, and thetIblack, conferred them: A huge black mass appeared
together with one object in view- among their branches, which was dis-
the two latter, though, on all occa- covered to be an eagle's nest, then oc-
sions, evincing a deference to the for- copied with that majestic monarch of
mer by an obedience which appeared birds, and a young brood. The male
never to be lost sight of.       eagle was seen sailing through the air
The feelings of the youthful officer around the hill apparently watching
on that evening were' somewhat de- its mate with its young eaglets. Ev-
pressed, and it was in consequence of er and anon he would soar high to-
this he had detached himself to in- wards the heavens, until like a spec in
dulge in gazing upon the wild aspect the distance, he could scarcely be seen;
presented around. He was chilled by and then descended with the quick-
the night air, and now sat silent and ness of an arrow, perching upon some
thoughtful by the fire watching the conspicuous spot near, where with a
devouring element which consumed fearless and intent gaze, he appeared
the fuel, and sent forth a renovating eyeing with suspicion the party loca-
warmth ; but the waking of the black ted below; and neither shouts or mis-
aroused him from the deep meditation siles would frighten him from his sta-
in which his mind was then involved. tion. Occasionally one or two of the
As moses rose up and drew himself young eaglets would attempt to soar
nearer towards the fire, he started as away ; but their almost unledged
if to depart, but stood a moment sini- wings being unable to bear them aloft,
ling on the black.               they settled back upon the top branch-
"Massa Captain--no sleep to-night es of the surrounding trees again. In
-$'pose he lay down and let Moses one of their short erial excursions,
look out for breakers," said the black, one of them came to the ground, near
rubbing his stiffened limbs which had by where Walker was busying him..
become chilled.                  self, who, with an unusually quick
"No ; sleep nig, while you can. I movement, seized it ere it could rise
am not in want of it. There are no on the wing. Scarce, however, had
breakers ahead," replied he.     he got it in his hands, when a rushing
"Nigger wont sleep when young sound saluted his ears, and looking up,
master is awake-rather watch him beheld the parent -bird flying almost
while he take him rest with master with the quickness cf a sunbeam past
Bob," rejoined the black.        him, and instantly wheeling, rose some
"Be it so, then," answered the youth, distance above them, and then quick-
and he threw himself by-'ihe side of ly descended towards.him with open
Walker, while Moses added to the fire beak and wide spread claws, as if in.
and seated himself by his side.  tent on the rescue of-his offspring.
The dawn of the morning found "Blast you for a privateer !'' ex-

A TALE OF PORT HILL.                        i
claimed Bob ; "here, take the prize," through them, he having ascended
nd he tossed the bird he held in his one of the trees.
hand towards the descending parent.  For some time previous to this,
With the start Walker had given Bond had noticed the captain stand-
im, the young eagle arose, and sue- ing upon the parapet with a small
eeded in reaching the lower branches pocket-glass, looking with intense ear-
of some of the surrounding trees, nestness at the black mass among the
while Walker thanked his stars that branches which composed the nest,
y the timely release of his prize, and saw him repeatedly wipe.the glass-
lie had escaped an encounter with the es through which he was peeping.
old eagle.                         "Captain trying to get through lub-
"I like the spunk of that old bird," ber-hole, niassa Bob," said the black,
muttered he to himself, tho' loud '- "There's no other other way of
nough for Bond, who had that instant mounting aloft from Where he is, dye
come up, to hear him.            see, you nigger !" retorted Walker.
,, a"Guess not, though massa always
"Ha ! Bob, you seem to monopo-,go outside the top when he go aloft at
lize all. the acquaintance of the wild sea," replied the black.
tenants of this place, both 'flesh and  They all now stood watching him
fowl;' that bird you caught would for some time, as le made efforts to
have dined you aind the Captain fine- get up to the nest, breaking off branch
ly."                             after branch to permit himself to reach
"it. At length they discovered him
"The. Captain never messed on an with eagerness grasp at something
American eagle; he would as soon feed above his head and thrust it into his
on hiscountrymen's flesh ; and Bob boson ; and immediately after leisure-
Walker is not the cannibal to eat that ly descended.
bird, the emblem  of a free spirit,  "He'm found something-guess !-
quickly replied Walker. "No," coil- May be it's the lost----" muttered the
tinued he, "I would soerock upon    ybeisth
thed og  bIl s wol sooner rock pon black, looking earnestly at Walker.
the rough billows of old ocean aids  "God grant it-" replied Bob,
e storms and gales of the equinoc- "tho' it cannot be-"  He was
tial term, and suffer short allowance of about finishing the sentence which
a gill of grog and half a biscuit a day, Bond was eagerly listening to, when
ere I would do that, Master Bond." they discovered him fall several feet to
"I thought the young Captain seem- the ground, having lost his hold of the
ed to look at the eagles with a long- tree he was descending.
ing eye. He has been watching them , The black was quickly by his side,
for sometime"-returned Bond. and Walker hobbled on after as fast as
,  one leg would let him; unfortunately,
An expressive look from the black however in his eagerness he stepped
directed towards Walker, caught the his wooden leg in a small hole in the
eye of Bond at this instant, and he ground, and in his hurry was thrown
turned them  upwards towards the prostate, leaving a part of his substi-
cluster of branches above, where the tute for another leg in the earth.
nest of the eagle was, and discovered  "You are a fortunate dog," said
the captain trying to make his way Bond, raising him up:. 'tis not every


jc

12                 A TALE OF,
broken leg that can be mended as ea-
sy asy   s."
"I know it," replied Bob, seating
himself; "but shove ahead, and never
mind me ! See whether the Captain
is righted from his upset."
CHAPTER V.
The countenance of the old sailor
for a moment as he sat alone assumed
a rueful expression, at the mishap of
his wooden leg; but brightened some-
what at hearing tie cheerful sound of
the captain's voice, who fortunately
had received no injury from his fall
from the tree. Seeing the situation of
Walker, he rose, and smiling stepped
towards him. "What! another splin-
ter wound, Bob, ha !"-said he.
"Not exactly, sir ; though I'm
thinking it will want a little splinter-
ing on the larboard side here," rephed
Bob, still looking a little rueful at his
shattered stump.
"Just by way of a strengthening
plaster, I suppose," interrupted Bond
laughing at'the quizzical plight of the
old sailor,
"Just so, Master Bond." returned
Walker. "Here, Nig," looking to-
wards the black, "take your jack-knife
and cut a small wood plaster for your
shipmate's shin, and bind it on with
this," pulling a ball of tarred twine out
of his pocket. "I always keep spare
rigging about me on the land or water,
you see ; but there's no need of one's
carrying extra spars about him in this
wooden country-one has no difficul-
ty in rigging, out jurymasts here-
plenty at hand on deck in every direc-
tion."
Moses, the black, soon cut a suita-
ble sticlS from one of the fallen branch-
es of the trees around them, and with
skill adjusted the broken fragment of
Walker's wooden limb, binding it on
ia legh agaway, that e was soon on

A TALE OF FORT HILL -__9

FORT HILL.
Bond here asked Bob how he lost
his leg originally.
"Never mind that," replied he," it's
r a long whilesago. This much I will
tell you, it was not bit off."
"Nor shot ?'
"No,"
r "Nor frozen ?"
"'No. "                      .
f "How then ?-.--Nor jammed off?"
'"No."
"It must have been cut off, then,"
continued Bond, a littled vexed at the
equivocal, ambiguous manner he wa
getting so unimportant information.
"No," replied Bob, it was not cut
off."
['Tore off, Massa Bond, answered
the bliek, "splinter tore him off."
1Yes, tore off ! You see chalky's
told the truth," at length answered
Bob, his countenance exhibiting an in-
ward laugh, at the long, unsatisfied
curiosity of Bond.
"It's horrid thing, Massa Bond, to
have limb tore right off one's body,"
said the black.    -
"Yes," spoke Bond in reply, drily,
tho' still unsatisfied with the manner
in which Walker lost his leg.
"I helped him to cockpit for sur-
geon ; and carried down young Mas-
sa captain, soon arter," continued the
black.
"Who !" asked Bond:
"Massa captain, who stands out
there---he small midshipman at that
time; but never fear fight or blood,
no more than Massa Bob."
"Belay there, Ioses, the haulyards
of your tongue," exclaimed Walker.
"If you have done a good turn to your
shipmates, keep it to yourself, I say-
they never will forget it."
The words of Walker cut short the
communicative conversation of the
black at this time, and Bob stumped

round to try the strength of Moses surgi-
al operation on his wooden leg. "She is
o3nd as solid oak again," said he, flourish-
ing his timber leg around his colored com-
panion's head,
"IHem'm last a short voyage now, I
guess," said the black, rising, and turning
from the spot following after the captain,
leaving Bond and Walker together.
Bond now wished, yet hesitated, to ask
Walker some more questions, as his curi-
osity was raised to an unusual pitch.' At
length after a few moments, he remarked,
'Why Bob, you have seen some hard times
in company with the young captain ?"
"Yes, we've seen the rough as well as
smooth" replied he.
"An weathered many a storm, I should
think." i id ond.
"Aye sir, rejoined Walker, changing
hia quid of tobacco for a fresh one: "But
some how or other, you've a kind of en-
quiring turn, Master Bond; just lay to a
spell, and ask no more questions, will
you ?"
Bond bit his lips at this quietus to his
anticipated hopes of gratifying his curiosi-
ty, merely answering, "I love to hear the
long yarns of an old sailor, who has so-ma-
ny scenes to recount."
"No doubt, Master Bond, said Bob, "but
I .am not in the reeling trim to spin you

11  1       .1-    -1  0   -9

out a long yarn, just now."           ble to the w    -ites or
In the mean time Allen, who had for the "I don't know much of them, Miss," re-
most part of the day been off in the forest, plied Bond, "but trust we shall remain
now came up, requesting them to attend quiet. If they come, however, Walker and
the captain and himself in a few moments, myself will sell our lives as dearly as pos-
as they were about leaving them on a short sible in your defence."
excursion, and wished to leave Ella in "Yes madam," interrupted Bob, "our
their charge during their absence.    life is at your service, and we shall not
The captain immediately beckoned Wal- part with it cowardly."  fi     c
-                        "I have no fears of that, softly articula
ker a moment aside from the rest, where ted Ella, "but what can two do against
they had a conference together for a mo- perhaps a hundred savages, thirsting for
meant or two, the former showing him some- blood ?"

' j fT
;r
F   't
N +
C
i
.?

thing, which he pulled from his bosom.
The old sailor appeared in his element
on the result of the consultation, and the
sight of what was shown him by the cap-
tain, and stumped around almost in a per-
feet ecstacy.
It was not long after, before Allen, with
the captain and the black, left the H ill,
winding their way through the forest in a
northerly direction. "A safe voyage and
speedy return, captain," said. Walker, as her
parted with them; and you, Nig," contin-
ued he. addressing Moses, "keep your land
tracks within hail oftyour shipmates, lest
some Indian pirate run foul of you, and
make carrion of hallof you for the crows."
"Never you fear old nigger, Massa Bib,"
replied the black, twistingithe hand of the
old sailor in the vice-like grasp of his own
-"Moses keep in the wake of the captain."
Walker sat some time after they had
gone near the entrance of the shelter of
Ella, apparently in a deep study;-and
Bond was humming an old tune of "woods
and wilds," occasionally directing a word
or two between the stanzas, to the girl in
the tent.
"So it seems we are to keep garrison,
while our friends are absent," said Ella to
Bond. "God grant that we may not b
molested by the natives before their return,
though I am told the Cayugas are peacea-

f{
I
l
I
i
i


14

A TALE OF FORT HILL.

"Do !" cried Walker, his eyes brighten
ing at the mention of fight or danger
"Why, sweep the decks of them."
Ella smiled at the animation of Bob
and his fearlessness of danger, and mus
ing on her unpleasant situation, remained
silent, resolving to trust for the best, con
scious that murmurs and repining would
be of litle avail.
The remainder of the day wore away
heavily, but in the evening Walker recoun
ted some sea-faring scenes, though not par-
ticularly interesting to Ella; yet helped to
beguile the time; and at a late hour she
threw herself on her rude bed, while Bond
and Walker alternately watched and kept
a fire light, to prevent the interruption of
the wild beasts, which they could distinct-
ly hear after night fall, in the forest which
stretched around in every direction,
Though retired for the purpose, Ella
could not sleep, fancy continually pictur-
ing'to her a ruthless band of natives, ready
to inflict any species of torture and savage
cruelty, which, together with the wild
howls issuing occasionally from the forest,
drove sleep from her eyes. . She rose ear-,
ly, harrassed with the frightful images her
imagination had conjured up. The mor-
ning was fine, and she ascended the high-
est part of the earthen ridge, which cir-
cumscribed this part of the mount. The
faint, distant sound of running water could
be heard 'n the stillness, and the sun like
a globe of fire, appeared rising out of the
dense forest in the far east.
Continuing for some time casting her
eyes around, she noticed that Bond and
Walker were stirring, and heedlessly she
descended the hill on the east side and
entered a kind of partial opening which
extended a short distance striking a part
of the woods which was now thinly stud-
ded with trees, and leisurely wandered far-
theor on,

CHAPTER V I
There is something in the solitude of a
forest which inspires the feeling with awe
. -its silence, loneliness and dreary appear
- ance, all are calculated to depress the mind,
- The wilderness of trees on every hand,
- that presented themselves before Ella,
with their huge trunks that had braved
the storms of ages, led her to contemplate
upon nature's hand which planted them,
- and she strayed unconsciously on, step af.
ter step,'fancy picturing to her immagina.
tion what changes in the order of time
might not take place ; when the present
aspect of the country would be converted
from a howling wilderness to seats of civil.
ization, and to the busy hum of life and
activity.
Suddenly she came to the bank of the
Owasco outlet, dashing and foaming along
over the bottom of a deep vale, the steep
sides of which it seemed almost impossible
to descend. The wild scenery around ore.
ated an awe in her mind, and her thoughts
wandered in contrast to her native hills
and streams, where civilization with its
industry had erased the solitude of a des-
ert, and caused their once wild aspect to
assume such a difference to the one before
her.
She thought of her home, and the friends
united to her by the ties of blood and na-,
ture, until the tears flowed unconsciously
from her eyes, while again the thoughts of
her pecular situation, in the wilds of an
almost trackless country, tennanted almost
only by ravenous beasts and untutored na-
tives, threw a melancholy gloom over her
mind, as she contemplated the views pre-
sented before her.
At length, trembling with emotion, she
sat herself on the high bank of the'rush.
ing water that moved along in foam over
fallen trees and drift wood of broken bran.

tt i
r i.
I
i
F{
f i(t
t;
t;
i
F t
.el
r
'  t

A TALE OF FORT HILL                               15
dhes and limbs. Scarce a sound struck   "He will}-l-He will protect us all,"
upon het ears except the careless, hoart-e interrupted Walker. "Distrust him got,
rush of the waters. "0, that they may woman I"
be successful in finding out something," "The God of battles be with you !"
nimrmutred she to herself, and she cast her faintly ejaculated Ella, whose bosom throb-
eyes across the deep vale before her.  bed ,ith uncontrolled-emotions of fear ;
While looking towairds the oppositeland whose countenance now exhibited the
bank, suddenly a terifi yell saluted her pale lineaments of almost suspended res-
ears; and terror seized her as she saw piration
through the trees several natives approa- An instant more, and fiendish shouts
obing the bank, and soon discovered they burst upon their hearing. "By Neptune I
were about descending its steep side to- they are coming, indeed 1" exclaimed the
wards the water.                      old sailor, and his features exhibited the
In an instant throwing herself on the look of fearlessness ; as much so, as if an-
ground, she crept through the bushes near ticipating a meeting of friends, instead of
her a short distance, to the edge of the enemies. His deliberation and perfect
thicket'; and rising, hurried with her ut- coolness was manifested in all his move-
most speed to the hill. Pale and breath- ments-a fresh quid of tobacco was put
less, she soon reached the foot of the steep into his mouth with the apparent action
eminence, and panting with exertions, has- that it was the necessary part of prepera-
tened her way up, clambering over the tion he was about to make. His old tar-
high ridge and rushed into the presence of paulin hat came off his head with a quick
Bond and Walker, giving them information movement, and then his jacket followed;
that the savages were near.           throwing, them both down at his feet, and
Bond armed himself immediately, and stretching himself up, deliberately corn-
prepared to sell his life dearly ; while mencing rolling up the sleeves of his shirt
Walker, perfectly-unconcerned, and fear- and baring his large muscular arms as if
less of any danger, exclaimed, "Let the for labor.
Indian lubbers come on-Bob Walker is    Bond in the mean timehad grasped his
always ready to repel boarders."      enormus cutlass, and stood with a pitying
A few moments only elapsed, after El- gaze upon Ella, who half reclining on her
la's notice of the savages being so near, rude bed, appeared with uplifted eyes in-
when a confused yelling of the natives yoking the Father of all for preservation.
told in language too plain to be misunder- Her lips moved, though no sound escaped
stood, that they were close at hand, and them. "She is communicating with the
would soon be upon them.            - Omnipresent Creator," muttered Bond to
"Calm  your fears, Ella," said Bond, himself; and for a moment a, solemnity
"though all the tribes of the forest come, passed over his features. It was transient
we will defend you to the last."      however, for they quickly assumed a stern-
"High Heaven protect us !" faintly ex- ness, as fiendish yell after yell, burst on
claimed Ella, sinking upon the rude couch his ears, nearer and nearer to them.
in the tent, which she had entered as the "Be ready, Walker ; the Indian dogs
sounds of their certain approach struck will scent us in a moment,' exclaimed he,
upon their ears,                     turning towards him.

t
t"
Y
'S
4
i
t
t
t
,j
{4
S


Y
r
i
t
i
r
t.
i
rjFj
i
l
Ft
i
t
F     f)
r
f
.t
, , Ff
y fr,'
7
R
F
i
F ,.
1
ar
!
. p,
!FR
Fi
! fij
F
1
.

16                   A TALE OF FORT HILL.
"Aye, aye, sir," responded Bob, "but exclaimed  Ella-'Perhaps they are not
they will find an old sea dog ready to hold with hostile intentions."
therm at bay," continued  he, leisurely  "Belay there, Miss, ejaculated Bob,-'
hits ing up his thick duck trowsers. "Do we form no treaties with those who show
you really suppose them  devils are for no quarters-if they are for fight-it's
fight, Master Bond 1"                 hardest fend off!"
"I know not, nor care," replied Bond. Ella said no more ; but hurrying her face
"If reports are true, they are a barb.arous in her hands, while, the voices of the na-
race, and show no'mercy or quarters."'I ties seemed just outside of the parapet of
,g'Show no mercy or quarters," repeated'the place of defence.
the old sailor,.pausing and looking earnest.1 "No, Master Bond, it's no use to bail
ly at him, "then blast me if they get any them, and make ,them lay too, as the girl
from Bob Walker I'                    wants," continued Bob, scarcely noticing
.There is no prize-money in capturing Eilla.                        (
them  friend Bob," said Bond," relaxing  "I suppose not," replied Bond.
his countenance to a smile-"they are na. At this instant it seemed as if one sim'
ked dogs."                            ultaneous yell burst from a hundred throats'
"I've seen Turks and Algerines, in my sounding from the earthen ridge, and rung
day," replied Walker, "but blast me if I in echoes back from the forest.
ever see an Indian pirate-Naked ! you No sooner did this appalling noise strike
say 7".                               upon the ears of Bond, than he rushed
Yes, and wild as the country around out of the tent, and saw a dense mass of
here they inhabit," continued Bond, "they natives just leaping the high mound of the
don't use civilized weapons. Can you enclosure into the area near them.
front'an array of tomahawks and knives,  As he emerged they discovered  him,
or dodge a shower of arrows !"         and a score sprung forward with uplifted
"Look here, Master Bond, d.'e4 suppose tomahawks, and knives, uttering horrid
I ever dodged, or winked at a shot, or cut- screams,
lass--ong shot or close quarters-yard-          CHAPTER VII.
arm and yard arm--when grappling    or   "Stop a bit, my hearty," exclaimed old
boarding?"                             Bob, as be saw Bond, like a lion from his
Bond stopped and looked at the      lair, bound from the tent ; but -his voice
arms Bnd stoed cntedace f     y  was drowned in the wild and confused
arms and unmoved countenance of Walk- screams that burst upon his years. "The
er-his athletic frame, and powerful look- Indian dogs will find " "no common hand
ing appearance for muscular strength-  among their rigging," uttered he, turn.
adwtahis determined eesa      hich aogterrgig"mtee                e un
and withal'hsderme          yes.!. whc ing to Ella to spea  ute;eak further ; but she lay
brightened in their sockets. If in singleintoEltosekfrh;busela
cobrghte tt the sothebttl i foge apparently insensible upon herpouch ; and
combat, thought he, the battle is for t his last preparation was made for the eon.
strong, you are a strong match for anyone; flict by opening his shirtcollar, while heo
while he replied,                      moved towards the 'opening of the tent,
"No, Walker, hearts of oak like yours' from which his companion had just made
never quailed. But hark! hear the wild his egress. Pausing  instant he saw the
houts-they are ascending the hill."   savages in numbers bounding toward the
"Treat with them if, possible," suddenly spot; and seizing what was nearest to hin
he sprang out.

A TALE_ OF FORT HILL.

One deafening shout rent the air, as
he made his appearance, and all was
but tie work of a motinet with Wa!-
ker, as he followed in track of his for-
ward companion.
Undoubtedly Bond threw himself
forward to meet them, his eyes shi-t
ning like meteors, while his ponder-
ous broadsword was whirled in every
direction. Aghast, the natives stop-
ped and at once started back with
awful yells, as they witnessed the de-
struction among them by one man ;
the concentrated whirlwind could not
sooner have cleared' the space where
they stood than the tremendous sweeps
of -his trusty blade, which at every
stroke laid some one of them a head-
less or a maimed trunk upon the
earth.
"Give it to them !" shouted Wal-
ker, rushing forward on his wooden
leg, wielding the stantion which sup-
ported the tent of Ella, which he had
seized with a giant strength as he
started, and was Hercules like, stri-
Iring down all before him. "Shiver
their timbers, my boy; and cut the pi-
rates' lanniards !"-continued he, hurl-
in the stick of wood among them,
"stay. in the broadside of the land
sharks,!--Give it to them, my man-
I'm with yot . from the stem to the
forecastle-sweep the decks of the
human tigets.!" vociferated he, laying
around ltrim with t;omenduous blows
o every side.
*Ihe natives in the meantime ap
peaKed awfully appalled at the num-
es that were struck down by Bond
adu  Waiker, whose destruction among
them seemed rmore than human, and
wid  one' simultaneous yell sprang
over the parapet and fled into the deep
and dark recess of the forest, extend'
ing westward, with their savage voi,
tces &amp;trained to t4 trumpet loudness in

shrill sounds,, and could be heard .still
yelling, until fainter and fainter their
screams died away ip thei d istuce.
'"The infernal blood hotundk !" in ut-
tered Bond, wiping the large drops of
perspiration from his forehead, as he
surveyed the field of battle.
"Wood devils incarnate !" respon-
ded Walker, throwing his quid at one
of the prostrate lifeless Indians before
him, and turning the body  over with
his wooden stump. "It was no boy's
play in repelling such boarders as these
--real bow  and arrow breed  these
master Bond,"
"Aye, Walker ; but there lays a
round dozen of them, who have lost
their dinner."
"And grog, too, I'm thinking," in-
terrupted Walker. '4hat one," con-
tinued he, kicking over a huge  av-
age that lay at his feet, "never 'kiew
what hurt him, when this little sprig
touched him about the upper story,
and broke his roof in."
"No,--nor this one either,"' ans-
wered Bond, raising the ghastly head
of one of them, which at a single
stroke had been severed from the
body.-"his carcass will not have the
headache again."
"Plast my two eyes !" ejaculated
Walker, I guess not-I reckon you
are used to mowing, I see you cut an
even swath as you swung the old steel
among them. You could not have
cut stubble smoother."
"And you are used to thrashing,
ote would suppose, by the way you
shelled the brains from the skulls
around you," laughingly replied Bond.
"Aye, aye, mater Bond,",  said
Walker, "I've swung a ,flail in my
day, but it was when I was very
young.' This is too heavy a piece of
timber to noove to any advantage in
that way, though it has done very

0

ira


',
,,
.
f        ,
;,
b
f
.
}
,
r
f
5
/;
:+'       i
a
a
t'
r        i
,       f

A TALE OF

18                 A TALE OF' FORT HILL.
well for this purpose-I'll just prop  "Then why did you not finish him,
up the girl's tent again with it. 'I when you felled the runaway ?"
suppose these landsharks will lay still  "I thought I had, the pirate.! but it
where they are."                 was only a wind-stopper--look at the
At this instant, however,, he saw rest, though ; think you they will
one of the prostrate natives apparent- ever rise again ?"'
ly raise his head a little, and then drop "Not before the resurrection," re-
it suddenly.                     plied Bond.
it slhere's life in that fellow," quick-  The knife of the savage had glaned
ly exclaimed he, and he hobbled to- after perforating a part of the dress of
wards himslowly. He had approach- Walker, and only cut a small place i
ed to within a rew feet of the supposed his side. It was a narrow escape for
savage, when he suddenly sprang on Bob, notwithstanding he kept cursing
his feet and with a yell plunged his the Indian for not doing the thing as
knife into Walker, and then bounded he ought to have done, swearing he'd
like a deer, over the enclosure into show no quarters to such a land lubd'
the thick forest, and in a moment ber who knew no better how to cut
more was out of sight.           and thrust. "I. say, Master Bond,'1
The surprise of Walker was so sud- continued he, "that imp of the woods
den, and the blow so unexpected, that never tapped any good liquor, orelse
for an instant he stood alternately eye- he'd have made, a hole in the right
in the retreating assassain and the place in the cask."
wound he had received. At length   "Never mind, Bob," said Bond,
he turned- to Bond, smiling, "That rather amused at Walker's ire against
cowardly dog won't come in my wake the Indian for not killing him,-"be
again," said he. "Why, the lubber careful you don't give him or some
might have done for me, if he had of his tribe a chance to unshingle
struck straight into my broadside."' your top works ---he'd no doubt take
"Are you wooded ?" anxiously en- off your scalp to your satisfaction, and
quired Bond, running towards him.  break your upper deck in with his
"Only just a small hole in my din- tomahawk in such a wvay you'd have
nor pouch, here--but the scape gal- no occasion to find fault with him.
lows deserves the capstain with'the  "Aye, aye ! no doubt 'he;. under-
boatswain's striped jacket, for not do- stands that; these fellows are better
in better execution with his knife." tonsures,'Master Bond,:they know not
"One would suppose you would re- whede the fine oil is. See, how you
joice that it was   o worse, friend, Bob, done your work when you clips this
instead of muttering because hd had bow and arrow devil !" points to a
not opened the whole of 'your broad- herculean native whom Bond had cut
side, as you call it,"           nearly half  ,two n ne ortwo oflhs
"I do-I do," replied Walker,; but sweeps, now  presentirg a fhoribe
the Indian devil should have struck spectacle-"a chain-shot would ,not
the magazine, when he had the have done better execution. 1ou
chance," bearing his bosom where his only wanted more strength, to have
heart was seated. "Nothing like do- made hm half and half."  "Come,
ing the business right, when coming said Bond, "we will leave them now
to close quarters." and see to the' girl-there wdil no

'  ;,
; ,
. .
fi{ ssjj
1 i('I,
i r;l t
( ;
t  ,
,f
5
t ' 1
{ ,
p         !'
i      i
r     =+
y,
f
:I
ii,
:ri       i

I

more of them moove, I'm ,hinking,
until the earth gives tip her slain."
$low   y Bond41'pd Walker 'now left
the field.x rhere the bodies of the sav
ages lay weltering in their blood,
ghastly in appearance.
"Iv'e seen many a deck strewn with
slain; but turned my back with less
feelings of compunction than now "
said Walker, stubbig his way along.
his hurrving men to their last dis-
charge above ground, after all is not
right."
"It was quick work," replied Bond.
"Aye I" responded Walker, 'but let
us away and see to the girl. I left
her as lifeless as our foes are now, that
lie on the earth behind us."
It was fortunate that Walker seized
the stantion that supported the tent,
when he issued forth for the fight, as
in the fall of-the cloth to the ground,
it concealed Ella from the sight 'of
the savages, who as they retreated,.
fled in that direction, and 'would "un-
doubtedly have revenged themselves
upon her-for their loss.
"Ob reaching the spot where Ella lay
covered with the cloth' of the tent,
they raised it, and found her still in-'
sensible from fear ;'but' as Bond lifted
her up, she opened 'her eyes, expect-
ing to behold a horde,'of savages.-.
"Merciful Father ! Are we safe ?"
exclaitmed she.
"Bless you, Miss Ella! yes, safe as
a, mouse in a caboose !" replied old
Bb, with aismile 'lighting iphis
rough features+"but we've 'had a
"hard one,; a round dozen have ended
their voyage of life, besides, some
others, 'i'r' thinking, are a.little crip-
pled in their spars and rigging, togeth-
erwith'a few whose hnlls'are thot as
Oeind as they were dsliertimrieince."
"Atid have they all gohe ~joyftul

FORT hItLL.                    19
ly exclaimed "lla, throwing her eyes
around in every.direction.
"Yes," replied lob---'-all gone that
could go--e-very mother's sos of them
---all sheered off into the woods to
repair damages!"
Ella, wtth a gtrateful heart, felt
thankful at the preservation of herself;
but the unexpected encounter with
the natives, and theprecipitated flight
of them, with so much loss of life
awakened painful emotions in  her
feeling heart' ;and she moved from
the tent to where the ground was
strewed with slaim. As she passed
one of them, there was something pe-
culiar about biro that arrested her;at-
tention:- A swan skimt cap, fashioned
not much different fromp those made
of a; kind of fur she had frequently
seen .worn,,vas partly upon his head,
and that part of it which was net soil-
ed by the earth on :which it lay, just
by the top of his head, was white as
snow, and the feathers which covered
it were unruffled and smooth.
As shestood looking at him, there
was something in the lifeless savage
that created for the instant" an inde-
scribable feeling in her bosom. He
lay half doubled up, with his head
resting on one arm, while the other
seemed grasping something beneath a
covering of coarset willed cloth by
way of vest, which set close to his
person.
To a casual observer there would
have appeared nothing singular in the
position of the body as it lay ; but to
Ella. the sight of one hand clenching
either his vestment, or something be-
neath it, induced her to stop and gaze
on him for a moment.
The shuddering sight of the bleed-
ing, maimed curses of ten or twelve
human beings, who but a short time
before were possessed of life and ac-


, I
{   It
it
'r

t

r1
A1

A TALE OF FO 'T HLL.

20                 A T  E OF F   RT  HILL,
tivity; and the reflection that they beneath the covering. The outside
were hurried so soon to the sleep of was polished bright and smooth, and
death-passing Time's l oundaries, to the under side was hollow ; the plate
mingle with the dust again, from being raised in similar 'form to the,
which man was first created ; tho' it crystal of a watch, but filled with'a
caused for the instant the vital current consistency resembling rosin or pitch.
of her veins to chill, soon passed off, The cause of this being worn upon
and she stood with an intent look up- his body she could not divine. In
on this man laying before her. His vain 'she examined the spot from
face was almost wholly hid from view whence she had removed it, to discov-
by a profussiori of long black hair fall- erif it had shielded a tender point or
ing over it ; the hair was of a glossy spar ; but there Was nothing on the
barightness, and appeared fine as the skin but the impress which it had
silken tresses which then hung in seemingly made by being compressed
wild profusion down upon her own with the tightness of the'leather cords
sholders.                        that had fastened it. If it was for
ornanient, why should the wearer
As her feelings of horror gradually have concealed it beneath the cloth
subsided from the first sight of the   nt; and it
slain natives laying around him, she vestmet andaishcould have been no
stooped1 over the body, and gently took protection as a shield to his body- it
htoope ovr the  bdy, atnd lency t was so small; and, in addition, it
hold other hand that seemed clench covered no particularly exposed point
ed with a death grrp on a part of his of his body which might lead one to
body.' The fingers were nottstiff; suppose it placed there for a breast-
but yielded easy to her effort to un- plate.
clasp them from the spot they were Musing a few moments on the sin.
fastened, and the hand fellinstantly gularity of the circumstance, she put
to the g nd. Th    e  e unelosd~the plate into her bosom, and iose to
ing of the fingers made her .tart, ad leave the body. As she was about
she thought she perceived a kind of turning'to depart, she thought Qhe
,quivering of the body to take place.- would again ascertain, for a certain,
Pausing 'a moment, she watched the      was life in
body; but) could perceive nothing' itng, once more bent herself over 44p
further thdt mdicated life. At length, inanimate form before her.- Trust.
putting her hand upon the spot on h  ing her hand into his bosoM  0 e
bosom, she felt something beneath his placed her soft palm upon his heart.--
vesture, of a hard substance. Curios- Scarce had she touched this spo, the
ity at once induced her to take a shall # at of life, whien a. fnt ecla t ou
clasp knife which she had for years escaped her; for beneath her g
carried with.her, and to cut through pressure, she distiictly ft 'a fog  .
the cloth. In' doing this she discov- throbbing, as though .life, stjll ligere-
ered a small silver plate, fastened With "g was about posing off in fainer
strings of some kind of skin, which and fainter pulsations frog the vigt
went through holes in it, and, then throne, "The dyingsparkstl glow."
passed round his body and were tied murrpiued she' to herself, withdgaw-
strong,                         ng her band fronhis bosom7ved
With considerable difficulty she un- raising his head attenapte  to place
fastened the plate, and drew it from him in an easier position.

r
Y
1
2
1
r(
i
.
X
3
y
1
S
k
f
1
$4
i
s'
i
1
9
r
F
t
{d
b
T
1

As she moved him, the hand that feebleness upon one side. While su
she first discovered grasping his breast porting him in' this upright positio
was convulsively raised by him to the Bond and Walker came up.
same spot from which she had unloos-  Ye
ed itrrand .seemed vaiy. a tempin "-e who, have seen lovely worm
ed It gdseme 'vily    tml'g ministering to the distressed, can pi(
to clasp the place again. n raising turf Ella in the humane act she w
his head, a part of his dishevelled, pereoEma  t  t he h elpless w
long hair fell back and exposed his p erforg  e he
face, and for the momernt he opened ",dualeeforeiher
his eyes. There was a languid mil-  ."She' ministering to the wound
ness in.their expression as they fixed ed," said Bond, as he saw her wit
her bending overhi, and his one atrm brace him up, and with th
upone handtVipe 'the placid brow c
lips moved as if attempting to articu- other
late, something, though no sound the native.
caught her ear. That feeling, inhler,  "Ualo, there, Miss Ella'!"exclaiih
ent in the female bosom, which neith. ed Waler, stubblig along toward
er time nor circumstances eath eradi- her. "l'ye think you can brig lif
cate, and which ever shows itself at intoa dead body ?"
the sight of distress, prompted Ella to "Robert," replied she, "life yet lin
alleviate the suffering form before her. gers in this young savage, Shall we
To save life, though at the hazard of as conquerors, extend no helping hau
bringing a deadly foe again upon them to the conquered which the God o
altered not her sympathetic heart ; and battles has placed in our power?".
she chafed the. cold forehead of the  "Yes, madam,' answered the old
native, and applied a smali vial of sailor. "But has he not slip d his
camphorated and volatile spits, car' wind, and clean gone,.as well as his
ried and used by herself, to his nos- messmstes laying here ; if not, blast
trials, to revive, if possible, th9 almost me, if I do not think an Indian has as
inanimate form she was bending over, many lives as a cat !"
Again he opene4 his eyes, a new life              felessi
seemed to have been given die dark  I found him li    maaid  e-
brs of vision, and afitsieapr and in moving : um, animation 're-
orbs s a  d  a faint smile appar- turned. Death has not yet taken place
entyiuplaeds was fast Cournt  --that fearful.struggle is yet to come
cousciousness was fast usurping the -let us smooth its path, or if possi-
sspended powers oil animation.  bp                   '     P te hat
_          ble atert the shaft.
na     Ella thankedthe mnip.  "Miss Ella, said "Bond "to show
otet, rg'qd, as slhe saw indications of yeuty i not always justice. Let the
returning lifebrought as it were into dead rest; earthly'did calinot save that
existence again, by the slender means rtan."
sihe'was enabled to use. A small tree "Perhaps not," replied she mourn-
stood near, where he lay stretched up- fully; "but have you vforgo'tten the
obi t: gruind';' aiid she exerted  her dekalogue, the rnddte that burt iin
tfi not' strength t nioVe arid set hidi tt~irnder from sinai's mount-'thou
le' iri igainst'it.' She succeeded' shalt not kill!' 0, let t s save life if
apdj'r a riomnit sat by li. side,hold- possible ! Mercy is the darling attni-
n "'a iead, Which'haddtolpped frunia bute of justice."

2!

i           1                           '/

p-
ran
as
i-
h
ie
)f
-
Is
f
s

s
a
r
F
i
E
x
i


22                  A TALE OF' FORT H LL.,
"Shiver my, timbersl" exclaimed over with branches of the trees which
Walker, "but it is 'so Mpster Bord; lay scattered arounn1, aid preied"Tfor
Wts save the wounded, and bui' the keeping a fire through the night. -
killed ; I ve'been crippled in my hull, "I'm thhikimg we shall have visitors
in my. day,-and fell into the enemy's to-night;" said  oiBohd, "'the Scent of
hands. On one occasion, had not the fresh meat vli brmg your' fourfdoted
enemy's surgeon tapped me and stow- friends out of 'the 'forest to sup on our
ed away -some. physic, 1 should have filled."
gone to Davy Jones' locker, and the '"They must be put on short allow
moaning of old ocean's wave would anee of our 1ndian-beefto-nint," re-
have sung my lul4aby until its vast plied' Walker; "arrd'to-inorrow'we will
waters had been .ared up,. This In- store it under the earth where' it be-
diarn dog, too, I well remember, at the longs."
time I stiffened him, smiled as he  "I feel a kind of presentiment' that
came along side of me.. I supposed it something else wilt. disturb'us," con-
was the pirate's smile at the time, and tinued Borid, for our prisonerhatiade
in laying about me, I toucheA him.-, his escape.'
He fell as if a grape shot had passed  "What! exclaimed' Walker; "Ella's
through him-a faint yell - only es- wounded man ?"
caped him, when' he measured him-   "Yes, I saw 'him leap from the en:
self on the earth,, for I struck him be- closure and dart into 'the forest a few
tween w'ild'and  after. The fellow, mornent since.'-
continned he, "'wore a feather cap, I  "Without any parole-the hibber '"
well recollect it, 'and 'he thought'to rtutte-ed'rBob  ole-t .b
rush tipon me unawares 'but bld"Bob  At this, moment Ella came  the'
-                                             r
always 'jibes' in season."  .     spot'where they were, and informed
Ella in the mean time continued to them the native was missing--having
support the head'of the savage, deter suddenly raised himself 'up,'and }wide::
mined now to 'use 'all the means in her'ly stared around, then darting off into
power to save the youthful native.--,the forest
Band and Walker also examinedithe   "You' have" warmed a viperinto
bodies of those around to see if there life to sting us, I feai-,' Miss Ella," s aid
could be anything dode to'save life. Bond.'
They were all dead,.however,but the  "I' trust," replied Ela"
I' rus," epiedEll ,I have'
one which Illa had' in charge; 'and done nothing but what duty promp-
Bond stretched all. 'the slain,side bar ted." =
side.; The young native fvas removed  "Never mind--never mind " ex-
to one of tbetemporary shelters. shey mea d Walker." cif they board'us
had erected, andl d iuo a soft bedagain, they'll find oldBo' tpon deck
of leaves, where what little aid could as usdal," and  he stubbed rodnd fin.
be administer d was done. jF     'ishgth.nts g   preparation fr their night
Night was now fast' appoehnre.         '
and as yet Allen and the Qaptai had  Ellaretired to her tet iiusimgo
not returned.  already the sun hd the suddenetreat other   usnl r
sunk( below the tops of thet tteweeanriaadse ytocomphlr nto
forest. tregy, .and Bond 'and Walker se, In 'the' m~ean~ tinpe alni
covered the dead bodies 6f the natives Walker contiuued up, expeping hat

A TALE OF FORT HILL.
the dead bodies would attract by their looking one see
smell, some of the wild animals which the whole of t
they could.now occasionaly hear in wild yells; but
the d rk forest.                 among them, w
This is the last land voyage I shall'tives could un(
make with my young captain," said pirates' lingo,"
Walker,, "for curse me if I like the laying a long
interior ; give me the blue water and discover , sore
salt spay."                     ing fires and
I was inhopes Allen and the cap- their residence,
tairi would be here before this," re- strings which J
plied Bond. "But hark-do you not so tight as to-ca
hear footseps among the leaves "  but for the lift
"Perhaps they have returned," re- loose them.a
joined Walker.    .     ..',     hear Bond utte
As the old sailor muttered the above,.the ground but
he felt the grasp of two powerful him.
arms around him, and was immediate-  "Halloo, Ma
ly surrounded by ten or twelve dark he, "what's the
savages, who, notwithstanding his ing we are fa
struggles, bound his arms tight, and wood devils."
then proceeded to fasten his legs.-  "Fairly capt
"Well," muttered he, "this is quick deck, I should
work, Master Bond ;" who, as he ."It was .not
looked around, he saw also in the Bond; blast m
hands ot as many more of the natives. the old sailor !"
The stealthful silence with which you loosen sot
they had been surprised, did not in ings."
the least daunt the old sailor, as he  "De'll a bit,
now lmey on the ground bound hand "Neither canr
and foot ; and kept still, changing his way but to sn
quid,from one side of his mouth to until ;day-light.
the other, though he expected every will cut out ou
minute to feql the tomahaw or scalp-  "More like,
lug-l nife about his head. wered Bond ;
Iu a few moments he discovered death of their
Ella rushing from the spot where he may take my
liy, followed l;y several of the sava-  "Well-.~ever
ges. It was but an instant before she matters not mu
was in theihands of one of them, who dies. For my
lei bound her hands behind her, and don't care a r
led qr rather carried her back to the my wi;,d-pipe,
tent.                           is ended--that
Vond,after. vainly struggling was  While they
bound in a 'smiliar, way with Walker. thamselves, th
TIlere appeared to be no confusion natives in group
~arniong the natives. A stall, giant- porary shelter:

23
anmed to have charge of
hem. There were no
a continued jabbering
which none of the cap-
derstand. "Curse the
muttered Walker, after
time, while he could
s of the natives, build-
preparing to take up
for the night. The
bound him were drawn
use conriderable pain;
e of him he could not
He could occasionally
r a curse as he lay on
a short distance from
ster Bond !" exclaimed
prospect ? I'm think-
irly anchored by the
ured and lashed upon
say," replied Bond.
t a fair fight, Master
e, if it was !" muttered
"but, look here, can't
me of the devils' lash-
-replied Bond.
I; so there is no other
looze it in the lashings
Perhaps the rascals
ir fastenings then."
cut our throats," ans-
"they will. revenge' the
comrades, on us., You
word for it."
ry dog has his day-it
ugh how an old sailor
self, Master Bond, I
ope-yarn. If, they cut
Bob Walker's voyage
's all.'"
lay bound, talking to
ley, could discover the
pes, making their tern-
s; and it was late ere

{;.a
,,
,,
",
r a
,
,
i;
.
r
F
c


e4

t"
;it~
9 J t!+

I

a raL  n  roam HILL

they began to throw themselves on his uncomfortable, bound state, and.
their skins which they spread upon addressed him:
the ground, and betook their bodies  "Isay, shipmate, just cut loose these
to rest.                         lashings, will you? Bob Walker is
CHAPTER X              not the man to escape ad leave his
friends behind."
Bond and Walker, being left to   No answer to Walker's request was
themselves, considered it rather a fa- returned by the native, who seemed
vorable amen, and tried in vain to not to understand him; but strode off
loosen the thongs with which the na- with a majestic tread, after having
tives had bound them ; but at length gathered up a large bearskin partly
finding theirefforts unavailing, con- over his shoulders, which had fell low
eluded to make the best of their situ- about his body, as he stood with fol-
ation. "We might as well turn in, ded arms ovei' the old sailor.
I'mn thinking said the sailor, stretch- "Stiff as a midshipman !" muttered
ing himself on the ground, and hitch- Bob. "If I had you on board the
ing himself a little to where the dry Butterfly, my copper-colored chap,
leaves were the thickest. "I've seen the boat-swain should tickle your
a hilrdet bottom to a buhk, than this, hull,"-and he followed hint with his
Master bond.   We might as well eyes as he mingled with the other na-
sleep as keep watch, to-night; come, tives, who were now stirring round.
lay along side here, ud we'll make a  It was an hour or two after this be-
picturetof the babes in the woods.'" fore any of the natives took notice of
Mhd was little inclined to sleep, or Bond or Walker. They had both ris-
e n'erry on the occasion, but moved en to a sitting posture, and hitched
himself nearer Ioh, however, uter- themselves close together.  Bond
ing h curse or two at the unfortunate *ould occasionally utter a curse a-
dilemma they were placed in,and soon gaihst the imps, which would irdme-
composed himself on the leaves as diately be responded to by the sailor.
well as he was able for the night.  All at once, they discovered a cluster
Walker, notwithstanding his un'of natives gathering together, and Iin
$eksait situation, fell-asleep, eniittitg a feW inoments they came tbWotds
his sonorotosuom ds as though he  as Where they sat. As they  ;dd
enjoying a conifdrt ible nip, &amp;nd a#. asog, a white mdan whs seen ettig
Woke not iuatil thnenext corning.. - them, though he liked e bot*as sa.
Tie first thing"'he discoveredd on open'- age as the erbwd ofdatk bodies-aiund
ing his eyes, ovas a large, poweiftel hiun.
iootiug savage, standing gazingat him  "There is  *hfte Ihdish1u'trg
With deep feelitig of aowscious enperi- them fellows," said Ednt .
rity S pieted in his looks; his broad,  "Sb thete is, or old Bob b$r.t k
asked shenlldrts'atr  sinewy sineds, fi- correctt -observation,"'r'ti'ed Wkl-
dod up, shtbved hercealean #trength, ker ; "I 'wondet' If the fllow ifas
tand  his piercing eyes denoted the turned Turk or Indian ?"
keehe~t of vision. Walked i'ised    "Vetry likely both," ahweyed lbnd.
hi ntifelf tp to a sitting posture. With In the mean time  ecdcifa
hiisdgbd matured, hard eunte meea tive's appreadhed i*hete They 're
little sntorted after laying'so ldng 'in setting, 'and'soon siftbulnded iheftz by

A TAL     OI IOR' HILL.
forming a circle. As yet, they had fearlessness; and as he was looking at
maintained perfect silence ; but, of a hum, he saw him suddenly loose one
sudden, a simultaneous yelling com- of his hands. rubbingg for an instant
menced among them, and they began the spot where the cards had bound
to move in single file round and round, him, he delbberately took his jack kijire
uttering discordant, shrill sounds; and from his pocket, and apply iug it to his
at once each drew his tomahawk and teeth coolly opened the bi:deI. t
scalping-knife, flourishing them in the Was no bthe w ork o  an i ini. And
air, and with hellish looks directed to- Walker was  'e frn'  Y ands.-
wards Bond and Walker, strained their '"Look v  he. Masi  BP,, el-
voices to the utmost.            elIrned he,  "l just cot yoir lash-
Old bob eyed them as they danced izgs, t', while r y hands is  =-
round like a set of fiends, until his And suiting the action t( the  ord,
countenance relaxed into a qnizzicalthe imwedialy severed the cords thur
smile, at the grotesque actions and bound Bond.
manmvres he witnessed. At length.   The natives for a roment seemed
turning to Bond, he muttered,- "Blast not to notice the actions of their pris-
Ry two eyes !  aster Bond,  hiat oners, until they saw Walker, with
does all this mean?               the most perfect conposnre, using his
"It means, I suppose, our death hands. taking a qtuid of tob)occo. Of
song," answered Bond ; "and they a sudden, tenm or twelve of the natives
are dancing to its tune !"       sprang towards him  with] their uplif-
"I can't say 1 like the music," re- ted tomahawks, uttering an appalling
plied old Bob. drily.            shout, and in another instant he
"Nor I either," responded Bond, would have been a lifeless corpse-; but
Abut I'm told they always dance and the tall, powerful savage,accompanied
sing, before they put their prisoners to by another, who was an apparent
death."                           youth, with a bound rushed -before
"The d--l-they do !" answered the them, uttering an exclamation that in-
oid sailor, rousing up and looking statntly checked their murderous in-
around.                          tentions, and they fell back.
nhe eyes of Walker now   rolled  The large chief' immediately mo-
kone one to another as they passed in tioned them to follow him, and Bond
review beforee them, some with their and Walker rose upon their feet. Un-
facesideously painted. "Curse their molested, they accompanied hin to
ntwmery 1" muttered he, "what's the the opposite side of the arena, where
use of all'this i But, look here,Mass 'the shelter of Ella Was, and were di-
ter Bond, if they kill old Bob and'tected to enter.
iv0 feu, just' tell the daitn and "We had a battow eceape, friend
lIckey     Win h  e iotrd, that 'I Obb,' e*dlairned Boud, as he'entei'ed
sunk with the colors  ing; Will the tbt'; t'in thinking them fellass
i o!'                            #6uld hate dohe ft us2-they'ptba-
'he fodo, Cbdff1.ia yeileti of the bly thertk *e its desettiing a better
lii4as f1tetd Bdhd'fdrn hattg' denrtlrthah to'be knaded otl, me head
thW'tlue~t'6f MWi'  btut he nodded With a torihhaWk !'
Esse't"Eihb SAW his kdidag' efe lit "I stppose do,", drily r'eplied Wai-
u, tihd hiB ltiks V~hihg poffet ker, lotnking around for Ella ; "bt
where is the girl, Master Bond ?"


~26

A TALE OF FORT HILL.

Before Bond had time to answer, tall; powerful native who then stood
Ella, pale and haggard, entered the in front of the entrance.
shelter, and sink down upon   the                ER   _
ground ; her arms were still bound,  .      HAP R     .
but she had been unmolested during  The look of the old sailor was hor-
the night. The appalling shouts of rible for the tnoment, as he was thus
the natives a few moments before, had thwarted and pushed back'; and he
drove her from the tent, at the back stood balancing himself apparently
of which she was standing when they undetermined how to act:; "close-&amp;oin-
were rescued and conducted there finement between decks, seeris to be
"Bless your heart. Miss !" exclaim- the order," at length he' muttered,
ed the old sailor, "I was fearful the while his stubborn feelings ho could
natives had robbed us of your conipa- scarce control. A minute or niore
ny."       ,                     elasped, and Rover, the dog, bounded
"Thanks to Him who watches over into the tent, fawning upon hin;..
all his creatures, we are at present "Ha! Pup!" exclaimed the old sailor,
spared from  torture and death," re-embracing his canine friend, heree
plied Ella, "but the slaughter of the is the Captain I-he must be near,"
natives yesterday, I fear will slortly(o.ntiuted he, turning to Ella, who
be revenged on our heads." tremblingly sat listening to the fearful
"Never fear, girl !" said Walker." shots of the natives, which in con-
"never fear---to be sure it looks rath- fraed sounds could be heard rising
er squally ahead ; but you know we from the glen on the south side of
must have a blow occasionally--the the eminence.
sea is not always smooth, nor the   "The natives have taken them pris-
weather always fair. But look here, oners ere this," said Bond.
let me cut those lashings off," seeing "True," muttered Walker, "and
her arms bound.   .what a fine snarl we'have all got into,
"No, no," replied she, "they are not Master Bond !"
troublesome : to cut them now would  Confusion of yells and horrid
only' subject me to others again, per- screams now rent the dir without, and
haps tighter and more uncomfortable." the eyes of the old sailor now rolled
A terrific yell now sounded from and flashed in anger ; but suddenly
without, and Bond and Walker sprang. the curtain of canvass in front was
upon their feet, moving towards the parted, and Allen, the Captati atid
entrance of the tent. The natives black entered with their arms tied be-
were all, runningtowards the south hind, and crimson spots covering their
part of the earthen wall,.with fiendish dress.
shouts, throwing themselves over the  "Taken. captive, I see, before is.
parapet ; and in an instant more, the Walker," said the Captain as his hand
loud bark of Rover, the Captain's dog was grasped by the' old sailor.
was heard by the ,old sailor. "Our  "Aye, sir, something after thatsort,
shipmate's have returned, I'm think- -a kind of boarding in the sniole by
in. I hear the speaking-trumpet of a double complement of men," replied
Rover," exclaimed *alker, rushing he. "It's not the first time, though,-
forward, to go out of the tent ; but Bob Walker has been q'prisoner,--
he wvas instantly thrust hack by the Ha! .old ebony," continued he, tur-

A TALE OF FORT HILL.                          27
ing to his black friend, who was cov-  Old Bob and the black recounted
red with blood, and stood near, with some hair-breadth escapes they had
is broad countenance giving evidence experienced in the Butterfly, fighting
of having had a fearful struggle-'n 'iyard-arm and yard-arm, and amused
right glad to see you safe though inBond with a history of sea adventures
an enemy's port."                until a late hour in the evening, when
"Me., too, right glad to meet old the par y composed themselves for the
shipmate agin," answered the black. night, and notwiihstandinig their un-
"Nigger no like these Indian fights, pleasant situation, fell asleep.
Massa Bob."                        The dawn of the next morning
From the opening in front of the found the party in the tent all awake,
tent, they could now see that some- and the natives busy in making prep-
thing was agitating the natives: a arations for something unusual. 4
large body of them were clustered to- number were fixing arrows and new
gether, and the voice of one was dis- stringing their bows, and a large cir-
tinctly heard harranguing them for a clc was listening to one of the chiefs
few moments, when the crowd sepa- who wac making furious gestures.
rated, and soon after, they saw the; The Captain and Allen looked up-
bodies of those that had fallen by the on what was going on, with minds ill
hands of Bond and Walker, taken upl at ease. Allen knew the spirit of re-
and carried out of the enclosure. As taliation of the Indians, and that some
the last one passed, Bob recounted the;of thg party, or all of then',' were to
battle he had been engaged in, and of be sacrificed to appease the manes of
the flight of the natives, together with those natives slain by Bond and Wal-
their subsequent surprise on being ta- ker. Of the whole party, old Bob was
ken and bound.                   the least unconcerned ; he would eye
Lu the rmean time, Allen was rela-;the groupes of natives as they passed
ting to Ella in an earnest manner,!and repassed the tent where they
something, that drew tears from her;were, and occasionally burst forth in-
eyes, as she sat melancholy and de- to a curse against the land pirates.
pressed in her spirits, listening to him.  The sun had arisen to a considera-
For a short time after this, Allen ble height, when of a sudden the na-
and the Captain whispered together, tives all began to assemble round the
and it was observed the stern features spot of the party, one by one,, they
of the youthful officer relaxed,'and a were brought out and fastened by
smile of satisfaction passed over his thongs to an equal number of trees,
countenance.                     when a kind of war dance wasper-
Nothing particular occuged the re- formed, around them. The trees to
maind1er of the day: numbers of the which they were fastened were nearly
savages were continually grounst the in a rage, anid at one extreme part of
tent ; and it was noticed that the the, enclosure  Au incessant yelling
large, powerful native kept anongkwas kept up among the whole as tho'
them, occasionally looking u~pon the they wvere wvorkimg themselves itte ,a
prisoners. Numbers of the Indians rage. Several, began to shoot. their
were also busy in erecting lodges, as arrows imto the trees abovs the heads
if making preparations fpr staying ofthose that were hound to them, and
sometime.                       (occasionally a tomahawk was hurled,

I  1   r
P  '.
I
{( II
rf I+
r!
r
!  fti+!
It
e  r 1 !
i
e
I
f    if
{
N


ffr
Iif
t
f
i
T
t
f         t
4
i         {
r
t
t
if
t
I
v
4
r
r
f'
Li,
rf   A}
f
ii
I

I

A TALE OF F      T NORRILL._
burying its sharp edge in the bark simultaneously loosened, and stood inT
near them.                       amazement looking around.
Ella had been borne unresisting to  In an instant Allen sprang to var
one of the trees next the Captain, and one of the whites: graspingmb u' by
was within a few  feet of him ; she the hand, and pointing to Ella, he ar-
was fastened with her arms clasped ticulated,-"Thank heaven, we are
around its trunk, and appeared more safe ! dehold your daughter " ' .'he
dead than alive. Walker and the words, like an electric shock, strgek
black were fastened to two trees on upon the ears of kia, and she rushed
the other side of the Captain ; and into his arms, exclaiming, "Ungd'y0
fond and Allen were bound to twvo long, lost parent ?" and ermotihascho-
othes a short distance from  them: ked further utterance. t he 1id piai
though the whole nearly ranged.  folded the lovely burden to his bosoma,
An hour or more elapsed, while the and stood as if entiranced, gazingal-
natives seemed to keep them in su  terely at her and then at the p
pense and torture of an approaching tain and Walker, as if trying to recol-
death. rThe position in wichstheylc  omtm.
were placed had begun to become    After the first gush of affection in
painful, and desperation was fast wor- Ella had in a measure subsided, she
king in the minds or all except Ella, released herself from the embrace of
who appeared altogether unconscious' her parent, and raised her head, look-
of thefate which awaited them, when iug intently towards the youthful na-
the tall, powerful native, who thrusttive who had cut their bands.
Walker so unceremoniously back into' His eye was fixed on her and met
the tent, accompanied by a light, her look.- Advancing with extended
straight, youthful, trim-built native,' had, he immediately threw himself
and two white men, dressed in Indian' at her feet, and, itn English, thanked
costume, suddenly presented them- her as the preserver of his life. Ella
selves, leaping the enclosure directly now instantly recognized in him the
in front of where the captives were      savage she had with so muh
bound, and immediately came .to solicitude restored to life among the
wards them.                      mutilated bodies which lay on the
ground after the conflict of the na-
A simultaneous yell burst from the tives with Bond and Walker.
natives, as they saw them, and a gen-  Puttmng her hand into her bosom,
erI 'tugh of the Whole took place to- she drew forth the silver plate she  d
Wards the spot, brandishirig their taken from his body, and presented it
thnihwtvk  and kniVes, wheh the to him, 'which he with eagetr'ess
V6in8 f the large chief, sotthding as gra'sped and kissed with such a fei'-
from a truripet, atreated them as if vency thi in dn instant bt tght Wal-
by mudgI. A  pause of a moment kr b  his side, he having caught
elapsed, atd the youthful native boute-sight of vhat she handed him. adt
ded with a kilife in his hand towards re see that my boy," etelaiied hd,
the da~tives, cutting in quick sucdes- seizing it at the metribut, and rutbbih
in' 'the thongs 'that bottrtd their aturs 'the back of his rough hatid across tii
to lhe tireet So suddenly was the eyes. At this instant, the white rnai
idtient, that they All seemed as if' who accompanied Ella's fathdt, ttth-

0

Is
l
I        I
1
1
1

CHIAPTE~R X1

During the proceeding
the alagk had stood a silet
looking with an intent g
yog.i ful lpolking Indian.
hre jrgped around exclaim
"U's'he, Massa Bob!
lie t looks of eye: It's y
Tbt; don't you see sga
when he fell on the steps
"I believe you're right,
quickly replied old Bob, h
with a bear-like grasp, at
lng, "Do you know old B
you young rascal you?
The youth stood appare
thought-the bewildered
fore him having completel
power of speech or aptiot
1nenit. At length he eXcla
recollect-but Who is this
to the prostrate man befo
"Shiver my timbers, i
replied the old sailor. I'
it's some fellow who ha
dian, the same as yours
girl's father."
In the meantime the C
the black, with eager to
few paces off,-the bla
something in his hands w
exainming critically. "S
Massa Captain," said the l
just alike."
Ere the Captain had ti
Ela's father came toward
claiming "where did you
"In eagle's nest, upon
climbed after him," quick
the black.

I

i

A'

forward, his eyes roll
sockets; and stood by the
on discovering what was
hand, made a 'faint moti
the young native in hi,
with a half exclamation
fell baok insensible upon t

TALE OF FORT HILL.                        29
ing in their "Silence, darkey !" exclaimed Wal-
ir side, and ker, stubbing alongside of his Captain,
in Walker's and addressed him, "Do you see that
on to clasp tar-colored looking chap?" pointing
s arms, and to the youthful savage.
of "my-"    "Yes; what of him ?" replied the
he ground. captain.
I.          "Why, nothing, sir, only he is a
brother of yours,-turned   Indian,
scene Moses thatn all."
it spectator, "What !" proudly asked the Cap-
gaze at the tain, starting--'has he the mate to
All at once this ?" seizing the silver medal from
ing-       the hands of the black, and compar-
I know it's ing them.
oung Massa . "I can explain it all," muttered
r on cheek, Ella's father.
tone ?"     It is necessary here that some ex-
Snowball," planation should be given thereader,
ugging him which is as follows:
nd exclaim-  Few were the vessels of war com-
Sob Walker, missioned by the Continental Con-
gress of the thirteen States which
ntly in deep formed the Union, and gave rise to
scenes be- the term United States. But among
y took away those of the year of---, a small con-
n for a mui tinental cruiser, on coming into an
aimed, "I do eastern port,fell in with a wreck,which
?" pointing was boarded by one of the boats be-
re him.    longing to her. At first, not a living
f I know," person was to be seen ; but on enter-
m thinking ing the state room of the cabin, a lady
s turned In- was discovered in the last stage of
elf and the starvation, with two male twin chil-
dren. On being discovered, she had
Captain and but just strength to inform them her
'oks stood a name, and commend the children to
ck holding their protection, when she expired.
hich he was Around the necks of the two children
show it him was two small silver medals, of the
black, "they size and shape of watch crystals, with
the names of the children engraved;on
me to reply, the under side.. After searching the
s them  ex- wreck, and consigning the mother to
final it?" a watery grave, the children were t -
tree-Massa ken on board the cruiser, and two rmen
ly answered selected to take charge of them ; on~e

4

i~
{fir

....- . r _-.  W..-. M w ._ -   __ _ r


i
i
k
i
}
,i
%r
t
r.
l
I'
y' }7
E
a
d
I
I i
.t
r

A TAL OPF FOT HILL.

t bhtek nainei Moses, and the other a no-
ile hearted -ailor. called by the ship's crew
Bob Walker.   When first found. the chil-
dren wore, receiving sustenance from the
deis of the mother which she had perfo.
rated in her fingers--thus, at the sacrifice,
of her life:. renderinig up as her last resort.
the vital current of her body for the pre
servation of her offspring.
This was discovered by the black, who
afterwards was one who had charge of
them until the arrival of the vessel in port.
and during the remainder of the cruise.he
and the sailors amused  themselves by
feeding them occasionally in the same way,
pricking their fingers and letting then
draw their blood. A few days, however.
after they were thus found, the cruiser en-
tered port, and 'the, children were taken to
the dwelling of the sailor, and there kept!
at the expense of the offir of the vessel

ly done in the centre, as near writing as
could be done and be legib'e.
We will now go back to the time when
the missing of the child took place, and
enlighten our refers as it regards the rest
of the persons mentioned in the preceed-
ing pages:--
Elbi Clifford, the female who- accompa-
nied them, was the child of James Clif-
ford, Who at a very early period embosom-
ed himself in this region of country, be-
fore the footsteps of civilization commen-
ced to track the wild, uncultivated waste
now checkered with cities and villa es.---
Her mother died when she was an infant,
left her motherless, and she was given to
the aunt of the same name, who adopted
her into their family, which consisted of
herself and husband, and an only son,
named Allen, about six or seven years of
 age.

-- ----    .    Lc       "vV            The father of Ella, soon after the death
some few years elapsed, and one of the
If her mother, left the banks of the Con-
children  was suddenly missed, and no    .
. nectieut, and for years was not heard of.-,
trace could be found, or anything heard of              .                '
it  After this,,tbe other, while in i-  About the time of his disappearance, also
e                          .s      the twin brother of George Smith, was
der years, was taken by the captain of the .on t  eril
cruiser on board theanof war and liter- found to be missing, and after a fruitless
ally brought u  and educated on ship- search for him, it was supposed he was
a  drowned in the river.
board.
Time in its course passed on ; and Ella
Young George Smith, the name which Clifford reached her eighteenTh year; and
this orphan lad was found to possess, in Allen, the only son of her foster parents,
the meantime had lost his medal; which had some years previous arrived to man-
to preserve the engraving upon it sacred, hood. He had connected himself with
the black and the sailor, when they had some fur traders among the French and
charge of the children, had filled up the Indians, and was occasionally absent for
hollow part with rosin and pitch, and tied some time. He suddenly returned from
them round their bodies. It was about one of his'exeursions through the Indian
the time of his brother's being lost, that settlements with the joyful intelligence to
young Smith missed his relic, and when he Ella that her father was still in existence.
was taken on board the vessel, Walker, in In the deep wilderness near one of the
order to keep it in his remembrance, had small lakes called the Owasco, he and his
pricked a black mark in a circular form party had discovered her father living like
upon the boy's breast, with his name rude- a hermit in a rude cabin. Allen had learnt

tain, in the continental navy, returned to1
port and heard the story of Allen. Bur.
bing with a desire to learn the fate of his
brother,'he determined to explore the vast
forests of the west. and satisfy himself
Ella Clifford 'conceived also the romantic
notion of going with Allen and trying to
bring her father back to the haunts of civ-
ilization.
Accordingly preparations were made by
captain Smith for absence, and his cruiser'
the Butterfly conveyed them through the
Long-Island sound to Manhattan Island.
where a stranger by the name of Bond,
took passage,- to travel with them  to a
French settlement on the shores of Lake
Ontario.
From this point commences our Tale,
and wet now resume the scene of the dis-
covery on Fort Hill.
"It' mut be so," said captain Smith,
"it mustbe the long lost brother of my in-
fant years."
"I know it," said Walker deliberately
taking his jacknife and loosening the ros-
in and pitch that filled the hollow of the'
'medils. "Did I not tell you so ?" con-
tinued he,-"George Smith on this, and
Thomas Smith on the other, as near alike
as the davies of the Butterfly, sir.''
"Them the same, Mass' Captain-them

Twins, as the captain grasped the hand of
his long missing brother.
"I tell you what captain," said Walk
er, "it was no want of good will' on my
part, that I did not stave in the broadside
of the young chap, your brother, when
Bond and m'nyself boarded the whole con-
voy of Indian pirates he was leading on to
us; but I am right glad I only crippled
him."
"It was a fortunate escape," replied the
captain.
"He'm never seen day-light agin, Master
Bob if you'd only had fair clip at dim.'-
said Moses.
"No, darkee ! it would have been all
night, with him," returned Walker. "Its
well, however he did not come within the
sweep of Bolid."
"Golly ! guess so !" replied the black.
At this instant the tall, powerful native
stepped forward supporting the disguised
white man, who was no other than the De
Faun mentioned at the commencement of
our tale. "My children ! my boys !"1ex-
claimed he, choked with emotion.
"What ?" asked old Bob, "you come to
claim relationship ?-why, I and blacky
picked them up in a wreck on the salt wa-
ter, my old boy."
"And their mother ?" gasped De Faun.

from Ela' paictat tha t uc nni"ig cli ti the same  interrupted  the  buck  .is
b~d been carried off by him and accompa- mouth stretched from ear to ear. and the
nied him into the wilderness. where they whites of his eyes rolling around. while
lived together oig a few months. when he tears of joy ran down his tawny colored
was stolen from him by the Indians, or had cheeks.
been devoured by the wild beasts. as he         CHAPTER      XIII.
had never since heard of him. After lo-  While the foregoing scene took place,
sing thechild, le had wandered to the spot the natives stood completely amazed look-
where they found ilm. and hermit-like. ing first upon one, and . then the other of
had spent the remaining years of his ab- the parties before them. Old Bob and
sence.                                 the black appeared for an instant beside
About the time of Allen's return. George themselves, and actually danced with joy,
Smith the orphan lad then raised to cap. wiile Bond in mute silence eyed the

,
'i
r,
j,',:
}
i
,
s '
"

31

n   _    }  ry  *t r r
A   A1IF    OP   FOR 1    Il   rlr.

i
,ti
i
.1
:
"f.
}
e.
',,
;
;
'
f
IScc
t
t
i,
f    i
}
R
t
,y
,
lps
t
4


-4

/

A TAL1 OF 1ORT MILL,
"She;" replie  Walker, "she we buried suspense for months for her coming ; bt
in ccan's grave--and a fair lady she was the vessel in which she embarked was dis.
too. 'God rest her soul."              masted in a storm on her passage, and all
At this intelligence, the counenance of on board except his wife and children had
1)e Fuun fell, for hope had sprang anew been washed into the billows of the ocean.
in iis mind that therwife of'his bosom stillThe ship had, however, stood out the
l1ived.--'Buriea in  oceans  grave! 0.storm, and was feihin with by the Butter'
' ny children," exclaimed he, spreading his fly, when the children were rescued.
:arms  t embrace the Twin-brothers.       De Faun, was only a name he had a -
-iAw 't there.'h&amp;it my hearty!" saidsumed, his right name was George Tho
Walker stepping before him. " Who as Smith, after whom his wife had nasme4
lknowis you to be the old block, of which his twin children.
'these chaps are chips. ha! Come, come!   The silence respecting the vessl bid
'none of your tricks upon 'travellers."  wife had embarked for this country, i1.
"flold. Walker !" exclaitned the cap- dueed him to leave the Canadas, sn4 foe'
'tain, receiving the eti'br tee of De Faun.-1 turn to France, where he learnt of het
*'If we have found a parent, mar not the embarking with his sons and that tothing
occsion with doubts ; we are children had been heard of her after leaving port.
vrescued from a watery grave, and were too Staying only a short time, disconsolsti fori
young to know the authors of our being, his loss, he again bent hie cou re for . i.
when rescued from the weck."           ountry, and finally took up his resi4ei e
"She was bound for America, arteg lim, -among the Dutch settlers on the fu1p )
Massa Bob,--dyin lady said the children where he became acquainted with the Ina
had, afather there," interragted the black. dian traders, and was frequently through
Well, hipmate'! If that boy is yours," this part of the country ; snd often eser-
said Sob turning to De Faun, "yo, own ted trayallers through the 1ng   tripas,to
'as brace an officer as ever trod the deck the FPneh settle :ents om tlela ea..
of a man of war ;-but blast my old bull !  At the time of our party's making the
who'd have thought at this time of fallinglading where he was located, he left
in with his father among the Indians."  that un 'Valkenburg's views were toetob
P e Fain, having in some measure now them, if possible, and he resoled t trus-
recovered from his feelings on unexpect- trate his plans ;"-'u-the quarrel, with him,
edg.escountering ,bis children, who he confirmed his parpose, and he suceee4.
poped, had periphed with thei,- another On leaving the settlement so s ,44emtly, he
in tossing the Atliatic, related briefly overtook them, and piloted the psmty to
h 4e was, at once satisfying all that he the Onondaga valley, where falling in with
must be the father of the children rescued an Indignchief who hs wa! op  instru-
fror the wreck.    ,mental i.                      vig fTrom 'a ,lhe cp sep -
He was a Frenchmanw ho had left his e4 to reman    a short tie .Wih hip-
p   eq qntry swq  fter he was pmyried, While' withthis ohf aa-d his followers, a
er tle purpose 4f settling' in the Candas. rupner qatg to them with the intelligence
o   after his arrival he went into the hat 'abiered lela gt    had t lon
Vur trade, and in about a year sgat for his place of a part of the tribe who were ?i,
gif t eopge qver. He waited iun anxious it a on of the anejent places of 4%fence

A TALE O      FORT fHILL
At tusu4a stopping place for hunting sence of the cl
parties, and that, the adopted son of prisoners to app
the chief'vas among the slain As slain comrads.
they were hastening to the place, the of effecting th
youth who had been brought to by providential re
Ella, suddenly made his appearance, the others, put
-who was the adopted ctuld of the operation, and
chief. He confirmed the statement ence saved the
of the slaughter of the natives.  Indians being ji
Pee parat ions were made. and he ac- their arrows at
companied the chief and son to the  They had ca
place, where Ella, Band and Walker who accompani
Were immediately seized and bound, years had elaps
it being the intention to sacrifice them knotv young
inmediately.--Through his iuterces- brotight with
simn, however, with the chief, their River, as short
lives were spared at that time, as he ing 'himself in
saw who they were and was deter- child had been
tined to save them if possible. Find- day by a party
ing that a part of the party were not en off by them:
there with them, he accompanied those had heard nothi
who were scouring the forest for the of the party wh
mremninder, consisting of Allen, the that time just
Scaptain, and the blacks          youth in his pla
When Allen and the Captain absent- his own.
ed themselves With the black, they Some years a
.left to find old Clefford, but did not his hunting exc
succeed ; and were returning to Fort- lost the medal 1
Hill, which they had just reached, child, and hid
swhen,they were surrounded and taken mong other orn
prisoners by the natives who had pos- At the place wi
session,a d were put into the tent with strings with w
their companions. Old Clefford who pended, becalm
was hunting in the forest, fell in with underbrush wh
a part of the Indians and learning that in building its
some, whites. had been taken at Fort- among the brush
Hill and were to be sacrificed,resolved they constructed
to see them, little dreaming that one -The Captain,
of them was his .daughter.       the arrival of th
in the mean time, the adopted youth looking around
of the chief,whom Ella had restored to glass discovered
life, missed his medal, and mourned the under side
its loss. On the morning the party of the tree, and
was brought out, he' had previously what it was; w
with De Faun and the chief, wander- nay be judged,
ed, into the forest. The Intdians at identical token
this time took the occasion of the ab- which had been

hihf, to sacptige ,;hir
ease the rpapy of t ieit
and was on ,the ,piit
eir object, when the
turn offeFaun and
a stop to the natives'
by their:timely pres-
lives of the party, the
ust then about to shoot
them.
ne across old Clefford,
ed them#; but so many
ed, that he did. not
Smith whoti he had
him from Connecticut
y after his embosom.
the wilderness, the
uddenly surprised! one
of the natives and tak..
and froi:that day he
ng of him. :: The chief
to took him having at
lost a son 'took - the
ce and adopted hit au
ifter, Clefford in one of
ursions near Fort-Hill
he took from the other
a long time Wore a-.
aments as an - Indian.
here he dropped it, the
hich it had been sus-
e entangled with the
ere it lay, and the eagle
its nest had carried it
and twigs with which
d their 'habitation.
, on the morning after
e party at the hill, ;in
with his pocket spy-
something brighton
of the nest nearithe top
ascended toyfid but
rhen his astonishment
on'ifindihg therm,.the
x of his early; years,
so long missing4 Q n

1
f
i   rSS
S
r
t    (y[
IFSs !, 1 y
I=
i      t
I      }
i
+
6t ?
.
M' ' G
' i
,
i        ,
r
'       ,

1N

;e
ti
,
:,
,,
r r'
.
j
{{;a
Is
,
,
,x
jjiSr
l
x
,
f,


v s       A1  I'iOPR~~                   AE0'FOTHL

showing it-to Walker, it Was recogtni
zed by hiw' and the black, as belong-
ing to ote of the twin-brothers.
CHAPTER XIV.
It was at thisperiod, that the French1
and Indians of the Canadas were make
ing war with the:Indian tribes of this
region. The French, commandant
had threatned an extermination of
the Jive nations of nati s, and a grand
courteil of the tribes had been held.
This great war, council had just brok-
e, up, and= the warriors were about
. ustereing their followers to concen-
trate and repel the French and Cana-
da Indians who were coming against
them.
Pe Faun had learnt this from the
chief; and the party, of Fort-Hill, in
consequence, were, in a dayfor two to
,set out on their return for the -Hudson
River ; but Do Faun, and Allen, wish-
ed previous, to visit a fur trading
house.on the shore of Ontario-
3Aceordingly, on the morning after
the recognition of the Twins, they
started, accompanied by Bond and the
,brothers, leaving old Clefford, and El-
la with Walker and the black In
the mean time, the most of the Indians
hd dispetsed, except a few who still'
lingered around, as if disappointed at
the unexpected release of their pris.
enher,.
Walker nd the black were tired of
their Indian:cruise, as they called it,
and wer anxious to set sail for home:
"..4If 1 am ever caught again from
salt wat*r," paid:old Bob, "may I be
hung for .:a Jand pirate. Curse me !
Id giVe my greg week now, to be
af a board the butterdy'
"I, too, Massa Bob, as well as IHub
him,'replied the black ; "But captain
4tid Aflengwith young Massa Tomand

dere new farder be back soon I guess
we den heave up anker.
"I, tell you what, blackee, I don't
like the looks of these Indimtldevil&amp;,
that are staying here prowling around.
It looks squally I'm thinking," con-
tinned Walker.
'Nor I nether. don't like 'em looks!"
answered the black - "but Miss Klla's
farder knew 'em well. Itink nothing
to fear from dem."
"Fear !" exclaimed old Bob,--
"curse their pictures ! as for the mat-
ter of that, I don't fear the whole
tribe."
"No, Massa Bob, you no fear the
debble heself, I know !+-much more
a set of bow and arrer Ingins. Lucky
ting, tho' we fond friends, when da
lashed us rip to de trees yesteida
mornin," returned the bleek, gr0 -
fing,
"Yes," said Walker; "burif we
were only let off then, to again have
our lives sported with, I reckon it will
go hard with us the second time. * I
see among these tar colored fellow
the same imp who so awkwardly 'ai-
ternpted to put1hisknife into me, .the
lubber has crossed my wake, -two or
three times to-day'; and blast ie, if
I like his cowardly, sneaking look.
"We'll look out for 'em,-We'llkeep
a sharp eye to windard, Massa Bob ,"
replied Moses, "old nigger will watch
all dare moshuns. He'rr detail iihro
played possum, wid yu, lia! Golly!
guess you'm git 'tindder~elip'at' hh,
he no use him knife agir-neber."
While Walker and the blaek, were
thus conversing' together, Ella, and
old Clefford, her father, had alo no-
ticed the lingering'behind bf a part of
the Indians. ,.The old nan eybd then
ctose, and two or three thr es, Went
among them, as he 'was stspiciOtrs
thatsonethigmwa# brewing/though

A ' AL     -6   PORT,       1Lf I

11i

k  1L1 OF'  RP  1L11".

a

Ite imparted none of his fears to his
daughter, He, hvever, made. no
discoVeries,- s the- wily  natives,
shoved -nothing, by which he could
judge of any hostile-intention, in thus
staying after the rest had departed.
'Towards the afterpart of the day,
the natives commenced wrestling-near
the tent where Ella, and her father,
,wer , sitting.-she sat, tmelancholy,
With her head reclined against him,
while he was relating to her some of
the scenes he had passed through
since the death of her mother. Wal-
ker and the black were also sitting
just without the entrance, looking on
the wild pastime of the savages, and
making their remarks on them.
The natives pursued their sport for
some time, much to the amusement of
Moses, who roared and laughed, as Le
saw one after another of the Indians
measure their length upon the grond,
hurled there by the giant strength and
skill of one of them who seemed to
surpass the rest in such athletic feats.
" That feller bully of the ring,
Massa-Bob; but I guess old nigger
could trow him on the deck," said the
black ; and while speaking, he arose
jand. stretched himself, gestulating to
Walkersone of his wrestling theory.
" Throwv him, yes; -I think so,"
replied Walkers
The natives observed the black in
his gestulations, and one of them came
forward, putting forth his arms,"-
seeming to court a struggle with him.
"Try him, snowball !" exclaimed
Walker -"Try- the land lubber, and
'givehim the -Butterfly trip !--a* pint
of'oldJamaka, my boy, if you throw
himon his beam-ends ! Blast my olds
' timber shin ! if I had the leg I lost off
the Capes, I'd try the swarthy look.
ing swab, myself."
4"trow himt as quick las -lightnin,

Y',

Massa Bob," 'replied the  ak te.tep-
Ping out towards the'nativ' m
colored shipmate" otinuedJhe,;9qy
old nigger once," and laughinglfr he
seized hold 'of the Indidb' A smite
of satisfaction seemed for the instant
to pass over the Uitve'W cb utitehike,
as they hpow grappa Id togetherj and
the 'black soon found, he had no
weak, emaciated lump of flesh and
bones to cotend with.
For a monient or two, they tfrug-
gled together, when the [ndian by
main strength, lifted the blaek fro n
the ground, and- was about' hurling
him down,' when' Moses sttikltgeoffe
foot against the legs of the ati e,
they both carrie to the earth together,
the black being uppermost.'  a
"Well done, 'datkee rf''roared old
Bob, "you had the softest part of'that
fall," said he, and he chtickted MWd
laughed, as he sawthe egro and Itt-
dian both rise and"grapple again.
For several times successively, the
black threw the native; whetn theone
who had been' the buillyof the ring,'
as Moses called him, stepped fd wend
with eyes flashing bright*Of*omhis'16-
cent success.--As he eatne tbtWWrs
him he stretched forth hislarge,'ba e,
muscular arms, and dretthe black  had
time to think, he found bhlifself
stretched his length upon the ground.
As he fella yell of approbation bhukt
from the body of natives who stood
looking'on;,and the *ild shbtiif the
indians was joined in b,-,the blaIk,
who somewhat disconcerted; qftiekly
arose, exclaiming, that there' i Ano
throw in that feat ;and grinning th-
er reluctantly, he prepared hinis Ifer
another trial with this natie; '
"I'll double the dose "of oittd"Jia-
ka; snowball, if yout capiize th t'fel-
low," roared Walker,-somewhat eoi-
ted arnd riiig pod" hisleg.-%air

, a".
S
rj
K
i
y
't
S'       a
3  ;
$;  i
!     II
I
) -'.
1
r
xg     I
.  s    j
E t  '    1
's
r11
1
p A
f '
ir
a }
}
'    q
,t    {
,i
4
R
A

! 13


Iis

A TALE OFO 1 'oW1 HILL.

i the. Rutteroy, trip, my hearty ?".
. "Nebbe you fear old nigger, Massa
Spb   tzow him now, so quick, he#
nebberkpow how he fall!" and the
two grappled together at arms length.
The sharp, penetrating eye of the
Indian was fixed:on:the black, while
he braced himself for the struggle ;
end,they both stood firm for an in-
stant, as if rooted to the ground, ga-
king at each other.
4t length,. they began to exercise
their strength, and to each moove a
lg.g--.oth, however, wary artd care-
ful,,f his antagonist. Soon the In-
dian ;wh a mighty effort raised the,
black, and seemed to put forth all his
strength to hurl him down ; but Mo-
ses was too well skilled in the exer-
e ss 4o be thrown in that way,; and
40 wlted a moment without putting
p5t Iii exertions, until the native be-
gato gag in his efforts, Then std-
denly he braced himself, and grasping
witha tighter grip his formidable an-
~tsgeis~t. "I trow him now, Massa
Beh," he exclaimed ;,,and in a mo-
.'sit ,the native seemed quickly rais-
;4 with apprent eape, swinging in a
"  la round, suspended as it were
oritotitally; in mid air, and, in 'a
, ilp)kling was thrashed upon the
goundw ith a fqrce that extorted a
bplow  groan from him; and he lay
Jal4 astounded with the concussion,
twth which he met his mother earth.
avp, bravo !". shouted Walker,
a trpnpet voipe -which rung throes
h.e solitude of the forest.i
1.ran, iptant the ivory of theblack
s per ptiple, as he heard the shout
Y     l Walker, and stood proudly over the
fallen native, who lay quivering from
thepshock of his fall.-"Did'nt I; tell you
tow him so quick he knownothin!
, Ntssa Bob!" exclaimed he. But
the vain, oast of Moses was drowned

I'  It-  -                                                        .-  .1

't
;
,r
"  ;    t
s,,
j, ;  1 F
:   1
r
.,
3     C
r
f
F
t     '}
,t
4      {
V
I
t
t
', i
'

in a loud simultaneous, yell. from the
savages: and three or (our bounded
towards him,-all seizing hold of him
at the same time, and attempting to
bear him to the earth.
CHAPTER    XV.
The success of the black in thJrow-
ing .the champion of the natives' in
the sport they had commenced, arnd
the exultation of Walker, maddened
the savages, who alone had lingered
behind;, to gratify their disappointed
vengeance, at the unexpected rescue
of their victims from their hands.-
They had only waited for a favorable
moment to again seize upon them for.
sacrifice. The situation of the black
at this time, therefore, caused them to
rush upon him, and so sudden was
the onset, that they had :nearly ac-
complished their object before Moses
could recover himself ; but in an in-
stant he stretched,his body up and
shook them  off.  Quickly -several
more came up, and again they all
pitched upon him.
On seeing the attack upon the black,
whose herculean strength seemed put
forth in his own defence alone, Wal-
ker could not contain himself, but
loudly cheered him. At first, Moses
suffered them to tumble him around
without much resistance ; but when
three &amp;r four would take hold of each
arm, and, bracing themselves, pull as
if to wrench his joints asunder, the
eyes of the black began to shoa the
rising anger which they were gradu-
ally arousing. So many had fastened
themselves to his body and limbs that
his utmost strength had to be put in
requisition to keep them from bearing
him to the ground. : Sumnoning,
therefore, all his efforts, in one-grand
display of muscular strength, he re-
leased his nervous arms from the gripe

In the meantime, old Clefford wit,
messed the 'fury of the natues, ard
trembled for the fate of his tugher.
He rushed from the tent among'hi
attempting to address thep; bvst fu
voice was lost in the deafe~g grelis
which they now franticaly teied;
and in an agony of mind bordeiig ';on
distraction, he returned pain to the
tent where Ella was.
She had fainted with terror, and 1a'
motionless,-death's relentlis
seemed to have stamped the sel 
release from all further earthly trials
on her countenace, and the old pigi
clasped, her inanimate ,fragile for in
his arms.  "Spirit of heaven! saini-
mate her!"'exclainned he, brigig
her to the open air.
As he emerged, with Ahe lifeless
form  of his daughter ip his are
wias rmet by three or fotr of  ipathq ti.
riated Indians, with fire dashing fronm

A TALI  FIO R:_  nu t

He spoke, however, to demons;
they were frantic with = disappoint-
ment at the overthrow of their cham-
pion ; and on they rushed, with the
speed of race horses, determined to,
seize the black.
"Massa Bob, stick to. old'nigger
while he fight f'em," said the black,
seeing the Indians were bent on at-
tacking him..
"If they injure a curl of;your black
wool, may Bob Walker live to revenge
.it," replied the old sailor, -throwing
off his old tarpaulin hat and stepping
in .front of the approaching savages4
"Look here, ye infernals !" exclaimed
he, "if you hurt Snowball, you hurt
old Bob-it's hardest fend off, dy'e
see ?"
.He had scarce uttered the last word,
when a powerful native. leaped: to-
-wards, him,,"but was met; with a blow
from Walker that sent him reeling to
the earth,and half   dozen sprung
torWar 'and   seized  him..   He

I

%Wiah which= they had seized them,
and with one, sweep he overturned
two or three: and sprang from among
them towards Walker, pursued by
half a score or more.
"Avast, there, and heave to, you
liell-hounds !' roared Bob, as the
black bounded up to him, panting
ftom exertion, with dilated nostrils
and flashing eyes. "Nigger must
fight, or die, 'MAssa Bob," exclaimed
he, and he turned facing the reveng-
ful natives.
"Stop!" cried Walker, in a boat-i
s'aim's voice, which sounded loud
above the wild yells of the savages
that now burst forth, echoing through
the surrounding forest,--"Stop ! or,
by the Eternal Spirit! some of you
wood devils will bite your mother

-, L5 s a au f

struggled. beneath their hands :but
finding it unavailingr yielded inalIp
and they bound hin hand and-foot.
In the meantime, several natives
sprang upon:the black: th ewfisitas
siezed by him with both. his a -s;
and he hugged-him to hisbobomiwith
an iron grasp  The native yelled in
agony as the black strained the clasp.
ed , body to his own, determiesdAt.
crush him with his strength. The,
Indian struggled as if in the throesof
dea h, and his starting eyes an4 gasp.
ing breath, livid) looks and raxaed
1imubs, told to the black that he had
nothing to fear from thatlone, nd 'e
loos .d his embrace.      _   a
He saw the tiatie siMk at iMf fbt
as he let go his hold ;;but, suroon
ed as he was, furtherIi'sistance "rro
appeared vain, and he sifffered hinr elf
to be thrown, to the ground, *hak
his .hands were fastened.


A  VL     OF FORT     HILL.
tarir es nooks of.engener pic- grim death-old feller threaten b tacjt
tured in their countanenances.  The ee too many times, and no come, to
sight;bfgreithem for an instant seem- make 'm scare now !-one 'ting, can't
ed *o wake them pause:-  Supported die ony once, Master'Bob."
in Iis arms, her head rested on the old "Right, chalky !i hut you black
 's-shoulder's, with her hair hang- sinner, ,they will take off the woolly
ing in dishevelled tresses.,- Her eyes covering of your iop works, and then
were. cl sed, and her countenance as stave your skull in."
she; lay, appeared pale and whiter as  "Neber mind,--may as well die
autmnal frost, or the snowy mantle dat way as any other," replied the
oCf tern winter.                black  I'll die like a man, any how,
Unheeding them, Clefford tottering Massa B3ob."
forward, with his burthen, was about  "I know it,-I know it I" quickly
posing then, when, the   brawney answered Walker, somewhat affected
hand of one ofthe natives seized hold at the calmness df the black; "but
thim,; whiles two others tore Ella we have weathefed too many storms
frons his  embrace. and ; bore  her at sea, to be at last foundered in this
fi)yni m.    ,sruggled in the pow- way.  It's a hard cruise, this, black-
eg )gnas which had seized him, a ee."
Qgien ;  t old apl ,feble, and over-  "Yes, Massa Bob," replied the black.
C    # y  rNg epiotions of his mind, "we've stood many hard squalls toged-
4ig ef(s of his daughter, who he der afor dis;-nebber know you flinch:
sw borne off by the two natives, he and you nebber know black Moses
sunk to tI e. roumd exhausted, while grumble. I 'spect we now hab to re-
el b tid hitn hands and feet as ceive our discharge--Da say Ingins
tt ieyhad  oge the'black'and Walker. show no quarters to dem tha mean to
he1 emon'yell of the e aspera- kill,"
t   Plativ4s, rung loud and 'long, in  ''And I for one, ask none," ans-
6   01randoterrificnsonds, as they now wered Walker. "Old Bob will 'die as
r   ed th"ir bound victims to the he has lived ; but look here, blackee.
fiofit otwther dent, where they were should they send your old shipmate
- inWalker, to Davy Jone's locker, and
a'word was uttered by either not slip your 'ind at the same time,
pr some minutes, until Wal- just tell the young captain to kill one
d1 broke the silence, and Indian dog to revenge me, t 'ye hear ?"
e1 'ord :---."I hear 'em, Massa Bob, and will
S,,think you, will be the next tell him,--cif I hab chance, said the
'edWit 9? the Indian devils ?" ask-Negro.
the o  rpate.               "Save your breath, companions,-.
r ,    wilpjut us to death, shortly," you will have no chance to revenge
ie.   fared this, when I your deaths ; for as sure as the iuorn--
*   t  chief 'de  t, and that these ing sun. lights to-sorrow, the=(vill
na i veglingered behind."         sacrifice us," 'intrrspted old Clefford,
yWroiihear' that ? blackee !" ex- arousitg' frorh his stupor, at theeon
I iWal1kr.        *versation of the black and Walker.
'ye~ ehhear 'e Massa Bob; "And if they do it, the curse of an
Mtt d i Slid~se eld iiget 'fraid of old sailor be upon thent,"'nmutered
BJob,

A TALEF 0

"And mine too" exclaimed . the
black,
"When a man's conscience is clear,
he can die easy,". said Walker, ad-
dressing Clefford, "I have fought nia-
ny abattle, and killedmany.enemies ;
but as I hope Heaven to rest my soul,
-1 never yet used the conquered oth-
Mrways than with kidness."
"Savages never forget revenge !"
replied Ciefford,.-"mercy to their
conquered enemies, is unknown to
them. You helped slay their war.
'rors, and they will glut their ven-
geance on you, at least."
CHAPTER XVI. ,
At the allusion by Clifford, of his
fighting. the natives, the old sailor
smiled, and turned his huge quid of
tobacco over in his mouth two or three
times, apparently miuch pleased.
"As for the mauer of that," ans-
wered Walker, "1 did indeed stop the
wind of some halt a dozen of their
rascally pirate crew, because, d'ye see,
I was never back ward in repelling
boarders.  Why, Bond and myself,
went among them like a chain shot,
or a discharge of grape and cannister.
They could not stand the hurricane
we raised about their ears."
- "And for that you'll be sacrificed,"
replied Clifford.
"It I am the only one," quickly
answered Walker, "I'll go content-.
il walk ti plank, or swing at the
yard arm; take death any way, if
they will save the rest. Give us your
fi.st blackee," continued he, turning
to Moses, and forgetting that both
were bound hand and foot.
"P.dgib you ,my fist and life too,
Massw fob," replied Moses, "but ye
see, the debblies hab spliced both my
ins togedder--han't got no hand to
heipg.yself with."

I
r
a(
{ 1
,f
4 t
iT
f
4F

FORT.ILL. _
"Right, Snowball!" replied Walk'
er, "I forgot we were made fast and
belayed."
"Yes, all fast," replied Moses, ,I
dians gib no chance,---But here, Mas-
sa Bob, I've, broke one fin loose,.
where's your knife i" asked the black,
his eyes brightening,
"In my pocket on the starboard
side here, Snowhall."..paid Walker:
"Just cut our lashings, my old boyY
The black procured theyknifey and
in a moment they were all f, e from
the bands which fastenedthem .; but,
at the suggestion of old Cleffordt they
remained perfectly still and quiet! ;4
As evening approached, the natiYes
built their fires;;and placed severalof
their, company to, watch over their
prisoners ; ' here we leave them;fo
the night, and return to Ella.
When Ella was taken, ske wascar-
ried into the glen on the south side of
the mount, where several rude cabins
had been constructed hastiy by'the
natives. In one of them she vasput and
left in a state of insensibility.-' When
she came to recollection, her emotions
on being separated front her father and
the rest, sunk her spirits, and she was
fearfully exercised for the fate of her
companions, and as to what purpose
she was thus removed.  In the eye-
fing, however, as she lay upon;her
bed of leaves, inthe place where she
was left, a flickering light shonapto
the cabin, and she saw one-ofth tuay
ties enter bearing in his hand a bl az
ing pine knot. Terror for a moment
completely took away conciousness;
but he shortly stood over her, sadga;-
ed for some time in silence while ehe
lay apparently as if asleep.. At length
she heard his voice addressing her. in
broken English.             {  , "
Surprised at the ielligible sounds,
that struck 'upon her ear, slpe ras


A TALE'OF    FORP Hfl .
quilifyon her feet. 'What' would vietima," replied he. "And hav yon
you have f-me?": imploringly asked not the power ?" faintly articulated-
she, while her trembling agitated she.
fraine   ed ready toasink upon the  "No," answered he, "I 'would a-
earh agaih..  ,."' t'{rlone save yon."
"''1  uld recue you frarh the hor-  "But my father ;" chokingly utter
r tea e'ptivity and death, Maiden," ed she; "he is innocent-no warriors
replied he. "Fear nie hot,' You see' have fell by his hand."
iot bte you a native of these Wilds :  "I know  it," answered he ; 4but
chaeo      hrown ie anly' among disappoited vengeannte in theana- -
the                              t ives will not discriminate- between;
# Andcan you saves, noble rrin ?" him and the others."
askeld-Ellaglaoing her hahd upon his IElla replied not, but sat the picture
ninusrlamr  while her eyes flashed of woe, while the 'man gazed upon
fth jbyglistining in 'tears that ruSh- her with pity and compassion. At
ed uneoncio uy 'i t6them.  "0, do length he stooped and whispered in
neoideeive usith false hopes."  her ear, to be calm and resolute, and
wear byihim who rules the red hope for the best ; and in an instant
aatiL-~ye, im vhosevspiit inspires glided out, leaving her ,in darkness
thonigitffear, thatyou shall be and alone.
safe"'          ,       '   .'    ' The night passed off 'with most in-
""And' the rest' too ?", faintly ejacu- tense anxiety by tlla, solitary .and
tat dsh  kmnindftul of her new found desolate by herself. She knewnot
fAther                           what was to follow, and she awaited
'1A' signee of a moment ensued, the morning's dawn with feelings
ethe vappareunavage pondered. better conceived than described.
ier ij oneMat length he said,  In the meantime,' those in the tent
swho%   earthly:aid 'cannot 'save: had- rather slumbered than' slet;
thear iers hemsk slamttand h rried'even old Walker turned and tossed on
tieey with thetfathers, cry aloud the ground, feeling anxious to see a
f Vagacee, His fate pis, fixed, and the grise
fotengance,'His f           termination to his present situation,
n'isnerposing arm can save hins  resolving, however, to sell his life
Illkndw who'he'meant. It: was dearly  whenever the crisis should
W lkeurand'from'what she had seenarch
of him,. she  linew=too, that his fate ap 'o.h
wotJdibeiet swithiheroism, ahd that  Just after daylight in tlya wrmaing,
beweU4Pbe~ufappaled in the last they were aroused by terrific yelJa
try dg hetry  ieaveneend him cong from the natives ; n4 their unusqt,
for {I :  aituedishe--" But is there gathering togehpr,at so early n hour,
no' way'eeuig him? must he be told them   that sqrinething impgrtant
sacriflest by the nerciles'and cruel had, orwps about to trapspire- -
angewhose empanions he has U n-   Old Clefford ,watched the rs.ove-
etausty slai it histowudefence ?" meuts',of the natives, andssawa;sonce
't6tuges know 1o0 love' towards that they were in astate of alatprwan4
their captives. Sudden ebulitions in that other objects than- the rprisoners,
thii     iifrioma the : poefadwr agit~tig, them-.
swg alg them, oulytsaves theft "Somnething unustial has taken!

A 7ATA .'OF Fot')' hilL.
place,;,the-natives expect an attack " hawl from his haud, and, with o h
said he to Walker.               blow struck him dead to the earth.*
i "From whom ? Do the devil's imnps  The natives utterly confounded at
expect to be att(7cked by us, afterhav- finding their prisoners unbound, and
ing bound uis hatid and foot ?" mut-assaulting them, With yells of disapa
termed, he in answer.             pointmhent left them ; and' at the itt-
"Aint bound now, Massa Bob," re- stain, Walker saw a body }of armed
plied the black.                 mer leap the enclosure, and shortly
"Correet blackee !" answered W al- after, Allen,, De Faun, and the two
ker, "and et'rse me, ifold Bob has;twin brothers, rushing towards then.
any more lashings' put on him while
he is alive."                            CHAPTER -YII.
While they were tal ing, the bark-
ing ofla dog was hear , and the black  To shipwrecked mariners strug-
started: "Hear that, Massa Bob !" ex- gling against privations: and Ifnticipa-
claimed; he.                     ted death ; .the sightof' relief could
"That's the hail of Rover, or else not have been more welcormen thax
the ears of the old sailor are deceived. the sudden return of the -aptait t
Our Captain has returned," replied;the old sailor and the black.  '-
he                                 As they came   p, Walker stood
"They have not been to the lake," over two natives he had felled to the
said Clifford. "Hark ! ."Do you not earth,his hardy looking!counte.
dear confused sounds of voices " nance was flushed with idignation,
"Aye ! I'hear the lubberly Indian though a comic kind of smile played
dogs," muttered Walker.     ' .around his mouth, and was percepti?
"Not them," ansWered Cliffordi  ble in his eyes ; while the black sp"
He had scarce spoke when a body patently pleased with himself andac
of the ' native- rushed; to ,he -tent tions, stood calmly surveying the sa-v
wherd they were, with tomahawks agq he=had slain, whose head-he had'
and knives in their hands. In an in- just cleft from-the crown to a silver
stant they ,levelled it with the earth, frontlet that bound his forehead, bury.
and rushed tipon the defenceless cap- lug the tomahawk deep in the wound.
tives.                     '      i split his knowledge deck, for him,
As-one mant they all sprung upon d'ye see, Massa Waiver ?" said Moses
their feet, old Walker seizing the pole with a broad grin.
that supported the canvass,, and with .""I see ,s, my black beauty !"' re-
a giant 'sttergth poised' the piece of plied Walker,' his eye instantly star-
timber for an instant.           ing, as, he saw hosts of armed sol-
""The -rench have attacked the ina- dip rs leaping the enclosure, jabbering
tite,""e telaimed: !Clifford starting in'French. while the captain bonded
back, fas the 'Indians' with fury in to his side."  This is boarding us at
.their{ leeks; sprang% forward +  "the right time ;-=bladkee and myself,
1'Hedvetoo4",vtobe ated 'Walker, were just 'niaking 'sheoth)'Wok; ith
as with a tornado sweep, he 'swung some of the lubberly Iiidian, 'liO
his enhtattits seclub moving thdm; uintned tid rose upio us jesterdsy,"'
while the Mack gladped one of the contintiede he turning; and addreissing-
framrd' at~e4wedted his: tomxa the cagtain, and hise brother ; 61a

,,
I'
t
#
'
i
4
1
f

ft
f(I
it,
i!
,t
P
r,
!   a      t
f
i
.   f
y
it

,v
.
1   ,
y
i
}
i
r   '
t


St
,
.,
_
,'
'
,
't ia
'
k'
,'i
'
Wt
'r
"
'
r.

'FQ RO TlLL.

what marine shipmates are those
captain,"
"Only aconvoy. of rechmen, w
put. ourselves under, ,who we foun
on a piratical expedition into the int
rior to capture some of your Indie
acquaintance," replied he.'
"Good !" replied Walker, his eye
twinkhing with delight, 'vhilehe rol
ed ait enorms.quid of tobacco around
in his mouth.
The twin-brotber of the captain
looked at Walker and the black,
t otfnt, andtheii his eyes wandret
Momittd "in search of some one else
heree is;thet lady ?" articulated he
awd at this  instant Clefford wild an
haggard in his lookscame up to them
"Where Is Kia ?" exclaimed Allen
,a d 'Trini i one breath, to him..
lThifterlal Spirit,- only' knows;
for 'T' do tt!" answered Clefford
tremblingly, "the natives rose and
$u r  ed us   yesterday,....in over.
p   wring 'us they bore her away in.
asibl."h
' Ai hieh'way did they bear her ?"
akfdAl'enr as the twin-brother Tom,
" ith eyes.flashing;like an arrow from
'Wbir, left' them instantly and darted
after the retreating savages.
Y.  u had better heave to, my boy,
thian chase the pirates," exclaimed
Walker,-seeing the youth bounding,
ethe parapet. Ofut he heeded
,thing,  and  instantly  disappeared
.wp ut thie enclosure
bll had just.falleu into akind of
hal "sleep awards, morning after the
apparent n tiye had left her, when
e'$1 ws, awageby sudden and astonn-
ding yells at4 ; entrance of. the cab-
't'e    cupd.sn
T verified, eshe sprang up just ,as
about a dozen rushed, i,' screailamg
like' ssosiamny' manians.  8ipking.

A TALE OP ORT iI LL.

down, she expected to be sacrificed in
an instant, and fainted..
e   How long she retained im this
d state,.sheknew not,; but on recover'
e- ing, she found herself in the arms, of
n the man who had in the.evening ,vis-
ited her, who was now gliding thro'
s the forest with her.
1-  Suddenly he stopped, and laying
d his burthel, on the ground, bent over
her.. "Where am 1?" faintly articu-
lated she, staring wildly at him.
a   "You are with one Who will not
d harm you," quickly answered he,"
"the savages have all ded."
" My father !"  exclaimed. she,"
d where is he ? 0, bear rue to him-
the merciless natives have not slain
h him. .
"He is sate," replied the protector.
"Let as then away to him," ssaid
she rising as if new strength had
suddenly been imparted to her; and
. she, gazed at the man with intense
earnestness.
At this instant quick steps were
heard,? and the twin brother Tom
stood before, thempanting, and knelt
before her: :.Thanks to theMighty
One, you are safe !", exclaimed he,
"Come, the army of the whites will
protect you ;" and in a brief manner
he informed her of the French in-.
cursions, whom they had met, and ac-
companied back, reaching Fort Hill
just in time,: probably, to save the
lives of her father, Walker, and the
black.
The sight of. the twin-brother,
whose life she was instrumental in:
preserving, caused the heart of Eila to
throb with quicker motions,. and she
accompanied her two friends back 'to
Fort Hill' 
As tthey neared the. mountthey
were met by old.Clefford, Allen, De
Faun, and the .Qaptain, his soil.

2Whrt" exclaimed De Fani,""Van
Valkenburg, you here ?"
-a phed the strong  built
youth, 'mentioniied in the fii:st part of
our tale.r'1
"Andwhere is'Derrick Van Hetter.
my qtioudam friend ?" asked De Faun.
"Dead "'replied lDan  "He pursued
o1iit hate rankling in his bosom,
aiid'i' sivimriing the Mohawk, from
some. u iaccouzntabld cause. struggled
a nometit, and siik'a lifeless corpse.
Chance hro't mue to the spot on my
wag t the trading house on thelake.
when   -i discovered  his body; and
chance brought me here likewise yes.
terday. with one or two friendly na-
tites ;- and finding the critical situa-
tion of those whom you escorted, I
resolved 'to save this female from the
sacrifice the natives intended."
The party then with twoor three
French officers, gathered around Ella,
who, with her father by her side, now
accompanied them to the hill.
The French division of Canadian
forces which had'inet the party, on
their way to the lake, induced them
to"turn back. except IHond, who took
his leave of them, and accompanied a
small detachment of the French,
which the 'commander' of the invading
army sent back as an. escort to two
officers who were taken sick after the
expedition had set out on their line of
march through. the almost trackless
forest' to subdue the natives. De
Fain,, now proud of his .twin chil-
.riooked u'pon their manly forms
t': o     dinar feelings.'  lMyster-
itf' Orbidence, 'adiu an tinexpe ted
WbMeit tit6ined them  in full' ntfaturi-
ty to himn from neeats grae,"vhete
he. supposed,: in their infant. Years,
they hid slpt with"their fiother.
!The day' now passed ofi. It wasa,
rare seene,adaWal'er and~ the black

f ,
3,
' i
f  ; ,;
' ,y
,,
R  t

congratulated themserefthat soon
they should tread to the decks of
the Butterflyr.
"When Captain going' to heave up
and anchor, Massa ,Bob ? ?" asked the
black.
"To-morrow we steer our course
for salt water, Snowball," replied
Walker.
"Right glad ofsdat Massa Bob.
CHAPTER     XVLII.
The many scenes of danger and suf-
fering which Ella had passed through,
and which she borne with:trulty -hero-
ic fortitude, now that an endof her
trials appeared in view; re-nervediker
spirits, and spread a glowof anina-
tion over her countenanoe. ,The tent
which she occupied, was akind.ofle-
vee, and a numbersof the French offi-
cers were continually thronging a-
round her.
Old Cleirord loked-upon his daugh
ter with delight as she4 appeared the
point of attraction which drew alat-
tention. The' twin ,brother ,Tmiu,
Allen and Van Valkenburgh seemed
to vie with each other in'htke iattesi-
tions to her, while a French officer by,
the names of La Villi am, fiery and im-
petuous, and of a commanding aspect,
sought every umoment,'io ingratiate
himself to her by acts and looks.
The unexpected sight of ecouotl-
tering a lovely and i ttestiig girI"fik
the solitudes of the utncnltivated waste
of country, tenanted otilyby the Aierze
and hostile natives who' they Were
sent to conquer,' 'awakened alko)anin-
terest and curiosity-among the: French
suhalterns, as well as the ofie ra ofa
higher grade.. "La' Viliatmhoweiever,
looked upon Ella as. something= sups-
nor tt the general ordered at.females,
which had'ever come ,utiuder ,;his b-
servation.-4truck~ withbher.ehar#i

WA I
t
pt

1.}

6


r' ;
i  ,
P

k
y(
t
f
, (((
F
r
5
F    ft
R.

FORT HILL.

44                   A TALE OF
he felt for the first time, an- uneon-
troltable enotioa  in' her presence
which the gay circles of beauty and
fashion he had oftentimes mingled in,
had sailed to inspire.
"By heavans !" said he to one of
his otnpanions, "that girl is worth
ihe jewels-that adorn the crown of
our sovereign ;-who would,- have
thouglitf stunbling on such a dia-
mond in the recesses of the wild
woods ?"
'"Caught','at last, La Villiam," re-
plied his companion,; "but that brill.
iant is ,not fot your possession-other
lains, you preceive, have fastened
to the gem.  The new found brother
ofthe 'American naval officer-the
savage whose ife she saved, is wrap-
ped up in1heri his untutored mind,
which'heretofore only contemplated
on the dark-skits of the red fair of the
forest, is now  enamoured with- the
preserver of his life.'
:What I--the savage youth who
weave the Indian costume ? he a lov-
er ofthere?,Imust supplant him.' I'll
not be deterred ty such a rival," an-
swerd La Villiar.
We have already said that La Villiam
was fery and impetuous. He could' ill
broetf an impediment in the way of any fa-
vorite project he had in view He saw at
once that young 8mith presented a strong
b1r pr to his favor with Ella To have
suph 41r!ivI to- atepsd yith,whom he look.
ed upon as but nee degree different from
a real avage stung his feelings to the
gaick,cand eadeated an animosity in his ho
aom 'against the itnconscious youth, who
hovered around;Y her with grateful emo-.
tlmfsnfor thV priervation of his .life.
VWih held puthim in ptession of a- broth.-
#oae rnt..hs ,lie
jVwhsogioided by De Faun     b the Cap-
etsadMis they ha4 bester start in-

I

mediately, and hasten their return to the
sea-board, ere the French commenced their
attacts on the natives. They therefore
decide d, that'the next morning they would
commence their journey.
The 'French commander deeming Fort
Hill a favorable,spot for 'stopping a fe*
days. until be could make his arraugementa
for an attack on the Indians, who were as-
sembhing in the valley of the Onondaga,
and finding the party were about starting
for the Hudson, took the occasion of send
ing a few select men with them as a kind
of scouting party.
La Villiam and six men were acordingly
selected and notified to accompany the par-
ty as far as was thought consistent, and
make what discoveries they could of the
movements of the Indians.- Nothing could
have suited the French officer-more than
this resolution of his commander, and he
hastened to put himself in readiness, ani
impart the intended acoompaniament to
Ella and her father.
On issuing from her tent, after, having
made his communication, he met the twin
brothers, whQ arm in arm, were walking,
around, and with a haughty air, ironically
informed them, that his commander, solic-
itous for the safety of Miss Clefford and
those of her party, had selected him 'as a
kind of body guard to protect them' from
the natives, on their rout to the sea board.
The captain with a contemptuos smile
heard him, and replied, that they should all
feel themselves under infinite obligations
to his commander for furnishing sch a
formidable eseert, and added, that thoughh
they were yithoUt fears. of 4anger, it was
very kind, in him also..
In the evening the twin brother Tom,
whose knowledge of the ,ladianasimauuers
and cusoms of war they thoughtghit be
of service to them, *aa consulted by thw

A, TALE OF FOlT HILL                             45
commander of the IBreuch invading party.,domineering.  Duels he had fought ere
Tom after giving them much valuable he left the sunny. wine cultivated land of
information, bade him: beware of indulging his nativity. His, anger was up against
in the expectation of easily subduing the'the youthful rival, towards whom he enter.-
Indians, as they were wary and jealous of tamed  bitter feelings of jealousy, and,
their rights. La Villiam, who was pres- which now rankled in his bosom.
ent, thought the ybuth's caution and lan'  This sudden rupture of Iharmony, be-
guage iniplicated the courage and abilityitween the French and the ruling star of
of the French--spoke of the natives as the Fort H ill party, caused. by the intod
cowardly dogs, fit only to. be hunted down sideration, and fiery temper of La Viliam,
in the forest as wild beasts of prey; and put the French C9mmander this shiftas-t-
treated the youth with a scorn and derision ie -was a Colonel, andin birth, noble,, tho'
which brought a crimson glow of indigna. his rank was inferior in, c mmadu4 to oth-
tion across his countenance ; and on re- era. Anticipating, bowever, nothing se1g-
eeiving some short reply from him, called ous would take place, as Tom leftthes non-
him an Indian bantling, reared in such a ference with his indignant looks and gla.ne
way as to deprive him of the title to civili- of defiance, he had no idea that La Vil-
Cation.                               ham, on the spur of the moment, would be
The youth. replied not quickly.butfix, so rash as to follow the ipsuited yonth, 'tho'
lu his dark, keen.eflashing       his bonor should;dictate the course; but follow!
-e                him he did.
insulted feelings, upon him, while his hand
distinctively 'grasped a dagger kind of
knife, stuck in his belt. The working of        CHAPTER XIX.
his sunburnt countenance could be dis-  As Tom left the French commatderia
corned as be essayed to curb his indigna conference, with vengeance in his counte-
tion and utter contempt, which was pie- nance, he proceeded a few rods, Whon be
tured in his eyes. '-Try 'me, dastard, in- met old Bob. the sailo.
ettiter " at length 'said he, cotnpressir'g his  '.'Ratio, there ! my youidglboy I ezdlhur-
lips, while, the deep thrilling tone of his ed Walker, "you look as if jou baid en-
oloe startled the assemblage of +feers countered a equinoctial !-what silV.aon
who were present, and casting a glance my' lad 7"
of defiance around him, moved to depart,  "Nothing, my friend 1" replied he, grasp.
Are flashing from his eyes.  '''      ing the hand of the old tar.
"Stop!" cried La Villiam, "You go not  While he yet spoke, La Villiam-with
so, by my life ! youthful braggartI A test flushed countenance, and hasty st ridesf
muit be put to that fierce demeanor !"  came towards them, and as'he approached,
: "Follow me !"r abruptly' replied .'the he said, -1 see you have company, Mr
youth, in a tone that blanehed the cheek youthful braggart I you bid me follow you,
of La Villiam,:for the instant but whoral. what would you have of me ' con Inued
lied himself as quick, and looking around he, addressing Toui.
saw the frown of his commander lo vered  As he ceased speaking, Walker' rolled
ppon him.                             his large eyes, and turned his huge quid of
SLa Villiam held the rank ' of .Colonel tobacco in hie mouth, staring fl-st 't one
ad waiofligh birth, proud~ arrogatand ana then "at 4.he other.-'ih,ia

I

a
i'
i
1 i
}fir
4  y,


A4 4t                         PA!     o     1U+/A#I~
tdt Wailted here," says he. and timved a loudly retorted the 4 cld   s lor.o Abo
{ew fet as if to depart.             her. sir. ofeevi   ie.pt the cathlhb tails
"Haolda mnmeint,- Walker!" said Tom'on -many a better ,xil ,than yourself a
nalndy, "I have been insulted by this hmai! I've knocked down Turks-and-Algerinen
'He wishes to know what I would have' for in ay daybeanse they were  t-y.-
his dastard language. ' Stay, while I con- strangled sovei,,bull dotst -and kiHed- the
front thu proud insulter.'            same -number of -Indins. -eat -nedgre
"Stay; aye," replied Walker. "I see oup{ fricassee-bullfrogs atnd -lod tId-
how it it, you are a true iate of the split dogs with the French, beside Ahrashing
etick your-br-other, the noble captain ! old half a dozen man-o'wars-naen of the same
Bob likes the spunk," and turning to La nation !"  Walker was, here cut short- in
Villiam, he ontitied, 'do you know Mon- his harangue to La Villiam, by the sudden
eier, I took that boy from-the-ocean's grasp coming up of - the captain and - several
and fed him with my own blood, hey ?-F--l reneh, officers, together with De Fatn,
Fair play, with him, or by Neptune's Tri- the father of the twin-brothers: As they
dent-I an old sailor holds you accounta-i reached the spot, the captain bowed coldly
ble" .                                 to La Villian and he looked to*ards-his
"And who are you I" fiercely asked La brother who stood with his tall, erect form
illiam, glancing his flashing eyes over-in the attitude of defiance, with-hlis bright
te powerful, muscular frame of the oldgeyesfied on his insalter.
Jack Tar.                                La Villtim for an instant-,seemed to
"Bob Walker, sir, boatswain of the But- shrink back, as his fellow-officert came up,
terfly, d'ye hear," replied he, -deliberatelyi but arousing himself,: he stepped towards
taksg og his old tarpaulin bat as he spoke, Tom articulating something in- a low tone
agLtbrpwi g ition the ground. "Did you of voice, and then.with a stately tread,
ever ee a.doule-headed shot, my spark ?" walked towards the southern bounds. of
continued he, closing up lis hugo hands, the enelpsure, instantly followed by hi .
tot se sis, ofa couple of sledge hammers;  Walker looked after the two as- they
)ocsezse here' the knock down arguments walked offwhile the French offitsers kgo-
prove~sis words, wlen doubted by such ing La Villian's insult to the twin brother,
land-lubbers as you, though dressed in the saw at once that something serious was
fiubelpws f the marines." _,,QAbout to transpire,.unless speedily a recon-
"l3y.businesssp ,not with you, sir," ciliation was effected between them.
#u4 y   ihd;La V$liam.                In the mean time La Villainand Tom
tup g',' qielcly answered Walker ; had passedout of sight behind a eluster of
xptoe have parpe with yge I'm think- trees, that stood near the parapet. "lood
8    t204ad now, sir, who are y ?    will be shed" says, two or three of the
oi g'        eer of Frange," replied he,Frenct  olies addressing to: captain,
apoga trogt ermsoning with indigna."our brother has incurred the Aispless-
son, "let se not be compelled t phastise are r of our comrade irk arms,--they will
lob- born inaolence As it deserves, towards fight,"    .
you."                    -        -     "Be it sor-i lhe is my brother,'he will
"      'y~ suppose   eh a fipe - spuwn shrink not"l replied the captain.
Mrtptgt waill figta 1 ~Wler," "An4lif ae~ sksgamdMe,

"here's an' old sailor to
Toth has been inhiated I
"lie twill y'etengeit
answered the captain.
"W hat ?" esclaimed '
tescuse my son;m he i
blood must be shed now
with a quick puce towar
they had disappeared, a
ly followed by all the r
ing up the rear hobblin
leg after them.,
Ere they reached th
behind which they had
Villiam and Tom, they
with loud words, and
speed onward, joined by
near, and seeing them al
forward inthe same di
proceeding.
Moses was the first
spot ; but stopped sh
desperate Ight in which
"You'm got your match
man l Massa Tom got
in him ,et,--gib it to
blackee *111 see fair pl
you fght well'" erelai
flg, little realizing the
eight ensue'from the '
They had closed in a
--.-La Villiam with a d
hand, and Tom   with'
when the whole company
1 ury was in their looks
dently been'wrestling o
nan was the first who
andregrdaese of their
rushing between the d
t this tiurdetatis warfare
his son, as his extender
tlhe point of driving *
fatal knife at the besot
e .oki -to lat.; hoW

A I'AL19 VP  Oft { I tL
take his place.-- instrument washed in, the roonbedms an
it the man."     in an instant more- was sheathed t the
himselff" quickly hilt in the bosom of the Fretwh  erffe arid
was as quick "dirawn back for another biWt
Do Fatin, "I must  The spouting blood from  La Villiarbe
nexperieneed,-ii  wound in an instant crimsoOed'tbe ground,
/' and he mooved and he struggled desperately to disengage
ds the spot where his arm from the viceslike ;grasp whith
nd was intmediate. Tom held it. 'Strike not again, my broth'
est, ,Welker bring- er !" exclaimed the captain, now rushing
g with his wooden up to them, and seizing' hold of his arm.
Tom's eyes flashed like coals of fire; sld
, clustet of trees. he still held firmly to the ,Arm- of La Vipe
I lost sight of La liam, while they both gazed at efrother
beard a struggling, with a fierce and determined Ibok.
they rushed with   But of a sudden, the hand of Toda re-
the black who was taxed its hold, and be started back;*heb
l running, bounded La Villiam, from  the quick m 4fekert
roctiotV they were *bich released bim'and frm loss 6ft1A,
pitched forward and fell"tolthe g +;
that cane to the and at this moment Ella Clifford, pauand
art, -at seeing the frightened, stood before them' 1abd rushed
they were engaged. to the side'of Tom.
,you French hinds.  The 'Frenob officers nowelustered "'-
some of old Bob round the fallen La VilliaM, h Ianu1t
him, Massa Tom I the ground feeding profusely, Wd 1iig
ay. GollyI I see him up, they bore;hem tainediateylrto'fe
med Moses, chuik- quarters of the French eormshd r.
fatal result which  Tom had receivedonly a %i w1    td
little. -         in one of hisiarms, but tholilb rdoIv obl-
deadly stnggle : ing from it, and, running:dpwn, was fast
rawn dagger in his dropping off his fingers ends. As. Ella
his Indian knife, rushed up to him, She sair the red steam,
y cane up to'them. and with a faint ekclaniatioln snindb*Wfo
and they-lad evi- the earth:--She had seen ftouni h0ent dy
n the ground. be moon-light the notbers runnioi onerdi-
)-approached them. section, and was informed by  ircValken-
weapons were about burgh of the quarrel betweeniaVillia
omattants. 'Stop and Tom, and utdeonseiously withe utiff6*-
Pexcldimed he,to ing what she was aoing, ran to thesceneof
d Am was just on battle between her two lovets, followedby
,th        _;l his forse the Van Valkenburgh.
tt of- La Villinta.-- it was amusing to see theoexulttitlen of
ovet,fot the sharp Walker and the bleek/oitahd Ve5UthAe

I


0A: TALMd                   4     FORT PQ  tP:IVtO
uftbtweeiL~a Villiam ltd. Tonq- eover of akinofqdgewI
c  lf - youx'wlat, snowtbalL." exclaimed had tinad:.4f1ar yobes of i le tce .  r y
Walker thiat boy hos the real grit in him, recounting to. heaelve  f the
eensidering he has been in the woods so bregdt escapes theyleh expor'ge edi
14Io  ; y.tir flumo                               u  r osef, on the c
rea                                  escapestheyeefsexpedihng.d .^
Golly gueps ha ha," replied the black oWaker had just cptiludedone of hiin
"1le use 'em  knik , equal to Spaniard,- ...7ears," h  eckudd pe ohisd
thinkk the Frenehman let. Masa Tom alone whietselfheP. sayia ' What'sdytnis
now,--he'm same fabip of old block wid de    gob ".yg-
captain." Noise I.bear nothing, butt
,YesI   thin so, too, darke,-pgrt 9f of the crickets and hugs, among the kates."
the 'saie stick!" answered Bob. squeesiug answered Walker, starting up; and they
.b   rd i andf the black, as he stubbed botli em 'god f brom their shelter earnest
+#  towards young Torn to con gratu late looking around.
him on h    tory                        Of sdden s wild shrt-k struck uc
iam on being carried to the com their ears, and the report of two pistols
ea's quartes, had his wound exam- succeeded ;,and insantly a nutrner of dig;
id by the surgeon, who, although he pro eor ant voie a ingled Wii  aligsaa
.40padgitdoerops}; onuidered itnot ageyells,,rng freil the Frenh gerers;
.uubt ihe taved incessantly:against and as quickly the whole area of;he,en,
hs antage yat, saearipg vengeance towards clQsure apeared full of the  t  t.
.  ..                                   hive,.start-
. n the mean time, his wound Was ing upt as if comity from t      ng
r#n pA         n, al
dressed, and every thing done to ;ake him 1!th hidedus        -
. .h.ded              yells,,tunp  g ,towards. the
r so     tblestheir situation affrded. Frqnch forces-
e         eII!ofiers,                                      Ce.
ti:'sbesoiers rushed, from                       ir- tents
ext day, being the one on.hichai                   .
"  ; rb if~sleep and ieta instantly at ek o             no
epa    estgned ato st out pr th sea-                           . withthet ht in
Wd T'y prvpprat"o                        :tomaawkspf 8d,      -   . an
$;4ogroans sh aalprecationsg1,ith the
d , xheyretired to get what rest the-pf-
woud util te morning dawned,         - y0~a14 hepod  o     tzy     fldte
AN '       eongaeair. The Indian forces bdmnder the cove
gHATEp   I                 ertoft  tghtek  off the.sentielswith
their arrows, and supprise the i dernv --
he idigh    uhorw hd passed and all  ed on by the erce chiefs ofthe nai ,
4mi sillu1Qpg the French sol~iers.-- sil et and cautious, they ia  p poxfed
Ahe eetinaes were nodding on their posts, the hill,. and at every aesssibl pintft
W,4f     th eqrters of the commander ly scaled the rampart,, inuped 9 y yig
41   ren ho e alight; for La Villiam lay themselves fgat upon th9 gro#d, twtil the
(trel   r with his yqund ani restless. general gnal shQdbe givet     t
Whi.e tW0of his fellow offi ers sat , a his to rise and attack theFreub, W  wore
h4Af fJeep, ready to administer to uncons i oa dane anlsleeing n
.  is .wants.  Qu' p  "ywhichwas   1star ther, fa cied#,e+}gi&amp;.
in the morning, were also .all butywajker. TIe ~in     qoswr       i~d     n
adibahlack, looked    ~ inh  aisostp.rp     ;tbaltp~ y aier inld,~ ond
:They lbed thrown &amp;    ~    u~te      are dtrzid ont drvn     .~.ivd

A TALE OF FORT HILL.                              49
from their soil. Little did the Frenchmen away from over their heads, and theoiie
think, when night east her mantle over shed her broad glare over the soenatoi
the forest around them, and vailed the butchery and horrid confusion. A few of
surrounding scenery in the blackness of the officers might be seen attemptipg'to
darkness, that the woods were alive with rally the soldiers who escaped the firsp 9p,
their fierce and deadly foes ; and that ere set of the savages, as they rushed with
the moon climed the tops of the highest their muskets from the tents ; and the loud
trees, that the war cry would wake 'them voice of the French commander was eooa-
from their dreaming slumber, and consign sionally heard, amid the awful and appall-
many of them to the dreamless sleep of ing whoops of the natives and the horrid
death.                                shrieks of the wounded and dying.
So still were the natives in their move- As the wild shrieks and the reports of
ments, after having dispatched the senti- the pistols struck on the ear of walker
andehetbackand heysaw row                                     S a
nels, that they approached the tents of the and the black, and they saw crowds of na
completely     ties starting on their feet feet in every di-
sleeping soldiery andcmlty surround       .
-  rection, old Bob stood a moment, as if
ed the most of them, ere a hostile motion struck 'with an electric shook, while the
was made. With a noiseless tread the
tenwa made. indthenoileseLad black rolled his large eyeballs around. .In
tent which contained the wounded La Vi- the mean time, the savages were rushing
iam was instantly invested by a part ofast them towards the Frenh quarters,
the band, and suddenly entered by sever- t
. theirnumbers seemingly countless.
al warriors.-A  dim light was burning
.                        At length Walker found his speech :-
by the sick officer.-As the first savage"adengalkersfoun       di  e
in h  ure hstoaaw th "Boarded again by the cursed land pirates'
sprang in, he hurled his tomahawk at the
iprang                         blackee i" exclaimed he, and he raisedbis
head of one of the officers who was up and.
.  stentorian voice loud, and rushed as fast
bending over iLa Villiam.-the sharp in-
strument clove his skull, and he uttered as his wooden stump would admit.towards
. . the tent of Ella, where the whole Party
the horrid, wild and piercing shriek, which
was heard by Walker and the black, and were lodged, immediately followed by Mq-
fell on the body of his wounded companion, ses.
. 'In the mean time, the others, of, the P41.
whose wants he was then administering to, ntmn         m theiresefthe
Ere the savage, however reached him. ty were aroused from   their sleep,the
the officer had seized his pistols and dis- twin brothers first starting upon their feet,
h  f"The French are attacked !" suddenly ut-
charged them both at the heads of the na-
tives who followed the first, and they took tered Tom, and they all but,
effect each measuring its victim on the ately rushed to the open air,
earth. In  an instant hundreds of the   By this time the whole French force
French who were fast asleep, heard the were aroused, and the frightened. soldiery
wild cry, and were aroused, each springing were seen rushing-in every direction toqa-
for his arms; but they were of little use to cape the infuriated natives who were del-
them, for crowds of savages like tigers ing death and destruction to all theyamet.
rushed upo them, and spears, tomahawks At this instant, Walker and the black
and knives ommence6d their execution.-- came up, and the next moment the savages
The broad anvas which sheltered them thirsting for more blood rushed towards
from the Dig t air,mi a moment was swept the spot where they stood, coming.frointhe

r
t
r
.
x
s
i
{{
ff
J J
t
C
i

II,


p

A, TAL1 00 oi~ ~tP Hit.

M     46I*"140e  As they seared, a gi- instant he saw the savage'who ha4.d slaid
~siiousvagD liped forward in their midst, his companion Walker, and sprang pyon
ll-We by doxen warriors. He met the him, when a simultaneous yell burst from
yof th bliek as he precipitated him- all the natives. With an iron grasp Moses
self orar, atd a struggle ensued be- had seized the murderer of his friend, and
*$e    t;Ar, Atfirst doubtful as to the re- they both fell to rise no more,-a score of
AI 1.-.4h herelean strength of the black, temahaws-had out him down, bat not be-
beavr ie a moment prevailed, and he fore he had with a giant strength crushed
led the hugs native to the earth, a life- the savage in his embrace, an  they both
Jss mass. On seeing the black engaged, fell together.
walker  outed, and threw himself for-  It was at this instant, when a hundred
itid 't #tas a fatal move, for he eneonn- knifes or more flashed before them, ready
tered the  lifted tomahawks of two or to be sheathed in their bosoms, that the
se warniOrs.. . By a dexterous turn he party saw the tdl. powerfful chief, who we
veidd two. or three of them, and grap- have before mentioned, together with Tonm
lea with the native who wielded it.--He the twin-brother. suddenly springing into
lig'tab 5*n the Indian to the ground, and the midst of them ; and the chief's voice,
s t   g in tri ph, when a blow levelled louder than a trumpet burst upon their
iie-,4 pmted savage had buried his ears. In a moment the natives fell back,
4vmahask In his head, and he fell,--his and stopped. as if the mandate of the Migh-
ges closed and he died without agroan.  ty Spirit had burst in thunder upon their
TIe sight of Walker's fall, was too much'astonished ears.  *  *  *  *
tfyback to stand ; for an instant he  The next morning found the natives in
atWt8t &amp; his fellow shipmateand saw hd;the possession of the hill ; and not a sli-
bas dead;dovg companionship had knit!tary soldier was to be seen except the slain,
thqfei  ings together ; and the lion de- that lay thickly strewn upon the ground1
prive;qt his, mate could not have been mangled and bleeding ; and when the sun
m ro e oited for the moment, than he was. like a globe of fire, rose above the tall trees
iti 1 imnd 'he sprang from the dead of the forest, the party proceeded by a long
eifbfel 1dd enades to the side-of the train of natives, were seen entering into
Optas.( "MassBob, he killed," uttere4 the forest their way towards the sea-
' en ked voice, and his countenance bbard;  t, however, before the brothers,
.i    t efull determination of revenge. had pai the last sad tribute to the remains
Aorb'o6 the savages had'then complete= of those who had rescued them from ocean's
ly surrounded the whole party,-toma- grave.--Walker and the black were depo
ivflk   erw* uplifted ready to descend or ited in the earth,-the brothers bent over
hurled at them, and spears and knives the new raised mound a moment, and then
S      h i1moon-beams before their rose, cast one lingering sad look at the
.    e~h from at least a hundred blood spot where they in death reposed, and then
to sacesstared them in the face, departed, leaving them forever., *  *
&amp;d   0lkffrlfated naties were  Two years after the events of the presea-
still rushing fi'ward to join the orowd.-. ding, the Butterfly'arrived in a pert-fro'
p                       forhis brother, cruise, and a wedding took place on th
'  es hghtd wih fierce bright- bank of the Connecticut river, at whicJ;,
We   V ' e h   ier was no where to 14e Ella Clefford, and another fair girl, were
. 'l Ikibed At Moseset.he black the brides to the ,T n-BaoTxans, Whoef
htskin rye, nud steppede frward,'ia tenaftermrecounted to their ohildrei the
bk4asde ke    nvigwith etion, Inan   uor f      umiG 1"L.

THE END.

/

P   I CE ,i*4im
Vw

THE
4K
7t  , '

4'  a3 pS,  t .,

GIVING
AN ACCONT OF MANY INTERESTING
ADVENTURES BETWEEN THE WHITES AND INDIANS,
PREVIOUS TO THE SETTLEMENT OF AUBURN
AND WHEN FORT HILL -WAS AN
INDIAN BATTLE
GROUND.
BY FREDERIC PRINCE.

f
d
v ,
s
.}
.
F
J C
h

AUBURN:
t'UBLISHED BY P. I. BACKER.
1859.

)

7
kp

- 01111,
r)    'wN                            IJ                              _

y '
#        w.;a

r

7
r              .        ; }
4
,
r%
t
lk                 w
.
;.
t                         e
.{                 ,
.,s'
f
F
Tj .
1.
.H               7,  .
,lfz,
1                      -
k' FyS
f                   .2';
T Pk
i                       _
t
t
'   s
4  ,                t
X24
-1
5
- ti
t                  rJ
t,
.t
_4
,'                x     i
7
t    YY
k
.     t^'

K
-,
r
.
c,   i
43  4,,

4
t=

fo-h 4

V

0

I,
Ii

s
OR y

I

r

f
a
F
R

,;, ;
.d 3' -i4
,r    ff'-
. .  "er,


  
             
         
       
   
