
    ----CITATION----
        Poore, Benjamin Perley, (1820-1887). The Russian Guardsman .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7476
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Russian guardsman 
            
               A TALE, OF THF
SEAS AD SHORES OF TfEl:1-
BY BEN: PERLEY POORK

(1

A

p
4

NF;W YORK:
PUBLISHED     BY   SAMUEI' F flNOIl,
151 NASSAU, 00NER OF SPUtICE STREW .

11"


I

9'.
~ £

99                  9'. .9

0   4i'.'.119   19ft

Miss,
9'.'.  9OF
tw9 .~'.''9 ~

j 9

GLEASON'S PICTORIAL
&amp; WiIUG-100M COMPAIOfl,
A RECORD OF THE BEAUTIFUL AND USEFUL IM ART.
The object of this paper is to present, in the most elegant and available form, a weekly lite
melange of notable events of the day. Its columns are devoted to original tales, sketches
poems, by the
BEST AMERICAN AUTHORS,
and the cream of the domestic and foreign news; the whole well spiced with wit and humor.
Each paper is
BBAUTIFULLYt ILLUSTRATE
with numerous accurate engravings, by eminent artists, of notable objects, current events in all
parts Of the world, and of men and manners, altogether making a paper entirely original in its
design in this country. Its pages contain views of every populous city in the known world, of
all buildings of note in the eastern or western hemisphere, of all the principal ships and steamers
of the navy and merchant service, with fine portraits of every noted character in the world, male
and female.  Sketches of beautiful scenery, taken from life, are also given, with numerous
specimens from the animal kingdom, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea. The Compan-
ion is now printed on the finest of satin-surface paper, from a font of new and beautiful type,
manufactured expressly for it,-presenting in its mechanical execution an elegant specimen of art.
It contains fifteen hundred and sixty-four square inches, giving a great amount of reading matter
and illustrations-a mammoth weekly paper of sixteen octave pages. It forms
inasmuch as its aim is constantly, in connection with the fund of amusement it affords, and the
rich array of original miscellany it presents, to inculcate the strictest and highest tone of morality,
and to encourage virtue by holding up to view all that is good and pure, and avoiding all that is
evil in its tendency. In short, the object is to make the paper loved, respected, and sought after
for its. combined excellences.
T ERX 8:-INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
I Subleriber, one year.....................................88 00
2 Subscribers,"  ".................500
4    "       "   "  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
fi   c  I                                                   900
8    "       "                                                      1600
07  One copy of the FLAG OF OUR UIoN, and one copy of the PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROO*
COMPANION, one year, for                                       -              $400
07  The PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COIImPANION may be obtained at any of the periodical
depots throughout the country, and of newsmen, atsix cents per single copy.
Published every SATURDAY, corner of Bromfield and Tremont Streets, by
F. GLEASON, BosToN, MAS
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
S. FRENCH, 151 Nassau, corner of Spruce Street, New York.
A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
W. &amp; H. TAYLOR, 111 Baltimore and 5 South Streets, Baltimore.
A. C. BAGLEY, corner of Fourth and Sycamore Streets, Cincinnati.
3. A. ROYS, 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit;                         -
E. K. WOODWARD. corner of Fourth and Chesnut, Streets, St. Louis.
W.,W. DANENHOWER, 123 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.
THOMAS LUNN, 40 Exchange Place, New Orleans.
1W Subscriptios received at either of the aboveplaes.

191970

t

--I, %1V  KO

141o

TaAa: :BL ro o&amp; A


A tA    ,At:7i  AA$ ~

4              A~               'A4      A
'IA
A'                  4A~A     4
~4A~;f~~                                             A         A
~iAAA    ~~'IA   -

ell
LA             A       - f

A IA

4AAJ

A A A
4 ~'               A

4A      AAA9                 A

I    A
11

~AA             A
ill

A                  A                                                 A            'A

a

AIAV AA
A   A         piofhe  t4  &amp;&amp;he ii t ,  A
BRxzpA *  ig~ ei4b  a~~a:~ en                         w4 a~n o~hw4J~ , p piigti~d, sind
~ A~hi p~ph h~;o verdsiitbils, whi* -~as in the "zbbitiop"Ot"~  iodqoe  c
f005 5ww^#mqui,4fpq~iuqid haijor.In geri* eclipsing is pre4ecowr il, in 4puzr time the
tpre~ 4a~p ~h w.se~ole4 -as the "Crown of p~odnfent,&amp;cter-,Wa4'*' '  he
Ieaiia/'Ate ."O,4rn~weq of Asia),' ad wilde  et"e&amp;Dne,~-  1~Tu* ks style]the
AW01.1 W~oinghm of"a w19                  ',"014
thoseimasioiel ehesof her.aniex *Las#      Isg pia             "One~g
onea       5       wkedo
Woodghinty i w4ors,and ton times hishelw *en, Pn'Reeerdom  t      a~o
Alof 'gwvat Oldon of he greatew. aqqmI                      , o m
%lO~~~7AO5~    hsr$      Iltep.,. s dence will,*A payAhr hp o r~  t~  e  n~rn~shie bo m  pW
_O    s qiq nep1)q, pacr~lto Jrupitqr, are Amd can valors,
AM lho as Aagwod ta8.,At rhplac OqfMo- 16.It was-soiegof
A:mer &amp;mosque: rem aist  q min"rewhr ASt, ffiose brig&amp;i pring Rorig  m&amp; ots d
John once preached toth  )rgas  gh"ot~vnQ0i
inonS t-poven. drurchep wM&amp;~ onsd hispaesowyuth  aalglFesr~  es
~gnatveomid~ia;A&amp;UdWel idiag,ase4 b7bwl~aey swelingher canVas.q=peAOOl9t
~&amp;  ~   pwes pi s, parwal*" 4 tdfjx  -tthe  rsibr.4r  ppc    iW
.1W nptB, 9f aA 9K Il  iwl.Rnss   alk n3inthe. jsd f      'm   wow~ 5
*ad AR&amp;le 9"Oaa, fola nd Gruek5,AeJm wereOdvsble above
mid Owhw=55340 kob  04. Wj~l   bfe cloths; sentrie b wnw"OglPP$. 4

f


10.HEUSIAGURDMANSN 1;MAN.

castle and at her gangways, while her ensign,
blowing sluggishly out from the end of her gaff,
displayed the double-headed eagle of Russia.
A long and tortuous course had that frigate's
sailing-master marked upon the chart, day b6y
day, since she had left the imperial dockyard at
Cronstadt, bound for Smyrna. After ploughing
the stormy Gulf of Finland, and threading the
mazes of the Cattegat Straits, her crew had first
caught a passing glimpse of the chalky cliffs of
England, and had then seen the verdant head-
lands of France. Tempest-tossed in the Bay of
Biscay, the gallant frigate next exchanged a
gladsome salute with the embattled rock of Gib-
raltar, and then traversed the sapphire waves of
the     '               " sea oc m   ories.".
ihE    n-iude
thehe acfs
of a drama, a   deepened   e interest, both of
the past and of the future. Even the sailors'
were conversing in groups, and pointing with,
eager gestures towards the shore; and those on
the quarter-deck, clothed in authority, were
scarcely less exhilarated by the glowing;s.ee
One, in particular, who wore an undre.isarmy
uniform, gazed steadily througir a spy-glass, as
the "Nicolai" passed through the figpt f sq;sr
rigged vessels and felucc&amp;.- He wa, theoxll'
person on board no't ^connetedwNihthefigte,
and as his subsequent a4",o cukg
prominent place in this narrative, we will ketch
his past life ere the anchorage is' reached.
t  AC ts  i i$f a sthe tinmeofth
y TggONd&amp;                  iroduidoI i
red      t      alaed*pOfienof A-gaWan
'heiTfe 01h*id IP l rehadover
vkkw cA  i e gdIight-rTd   iaianda'loed

Of the early life of Alexis we can say but lit-
tle, for even his own recollections were vague
and confused. He had an indistinct remembrance
of a lady who used to .kiss him ere he went to.
sleep at night, and to greet him with a kiss in
the morning; but where it was, or who she was,
he could not say. The positive horizon of his
memory was bounded by his residence with his
grandfather,-the Russian Consul at Smyrna,-
where he was humored by Katina, the house-
keeper, and taught, to ride by Demetri, her hus-
band, who was the factotum of the 'consulate.
From Smyrna, he was taken to the Polytechnic
School, at St. Petersburg, where he soon became
a favorite with instructors and pupils. Excel-
.leint   were sent to his randfather, who
V4iterest it         ss, and
*s .vq 'to                    final ex--
niination.    exs tok the   g     onor, and
consequently received a commission in the Im-
perial Guard. What a distinctionI The consul
remained to witness the young comet's first ap-
pearance on parade with his regiment, in the
"agser Platz," and his eyes sparkled with joy
A§ the- emperor complimented the young recruit.
Ere the old gentleman returned to Smyrna,.he
edged a large sum of money with the army
bankersto'thegordet of Conet Orloff; and noth-
Iti balanced intellect could have kept
eg Ki$7t those whirlpools of' dissipation,
whichAbotnain all capitals, and which so fre-
quently engulph the hopes of many parents.
ky yils~dala'ndhe4Gtrdi         4 #6M'ealered
to '"ti'~fr llisifilbifiefdAl1xin sodis-
st Ifgheh6 lie l iinhdantags   uient that
the #eni*4in cobiu4l n  elelited*i*iiias'the
  nblsse nier arrss  eis 'glie hW~ dtO  ter
fI  i a- llM'rdBk      Tiile     hd   o-
.i )&amp;d teaiyoungco6rnt'to    ti Fit iice.
A Af 'fiysAft'rtdsihh  asVreatelew
ai P'A" -hVof, au1d Cpain  6f*Wffw ivitid to
V , md  I tlistht oftledafiddiikbe; Oh 'their -
Ry fdo1Fel'j a tMtiukiY'eglessiiinhrsea
6 li 3r. ~iideptb"hixau'd'ut tealii fitrse
broihni  i    infllcifiefjr dlft-ger et his
f S'Ceapi'eCWoff,*'lid'&amp; thie gil duke~ 'if
w e                                  pu
oP -red  S ikffi tflbt -ttibig,
'I bibh       sod .  ' -,  hfterAfuiar
of 'is* 1IfM4,     o  Is
S    it       iliiffith  e4ellM  &amp;tbIffbb9 of
't     A ,      :*b'gAt6IiihedUW44~k&amp;Ftos-

rhessaldhuhd u   *hatswopl, you, if in qopn,
d ahe ,pokev thetfature auto-"
dckatA~e4 his eagle glance, pon Alexis.
gTadYoqug officer madeno replyo butteehed
WO sti~iy-and burning .the rowels of Ia.spurs,in
It-'the lRankdof Ais 1e ephe shouted 'Iforward ! '
1 Aid.urg  the noble animal:against the .pavApot
-of~the1 br~Ige'.'. Making -as desperate; lea h,
1cleared it-at a.bond; aud'tlh  staff, ferge
all discipline, made thefair;ring-withbravoess
Alexiswas sen guiding hisu steedthrough $le,
waves ti the opositb bank,; where ihe lant4de
before the grand'tdukebcauld ride acros  he
" 'Noblydoner Marens Orloff," was his greek-
ing: '1But retire toyfour quarters-ad get a dry,
i iiform. "We-ca ill afford to lose such soldiers,
and-you-have proved yourselfWell worthyaMis-
-.shidAshit I think you will not dislike, Move on,
egentlemen.E   -,'
That ,evening, the gallant daring lofAlexis
was the stabject' of universal encornjumnnO,
within, a.&amp;weekthM. intrepid,)oung man was ,on
'hi's W'ayto Cfonstadt, havingsix monthsajeave of
absence, with a passage to Smyrna en board of
the "Nicolai,'! Captain Paskewitach, who. was
on thepoint of ailing from Cronstadt; Itwaas,
shedfirst-cfuise of the" Nicolai," and Alexis was,
much interested during, the voyage,--whch Ire
have prb-loudiy described,--by'the;efforts of the
captain tohave his crew prompt iand-eAient..
-Not only were they exercised in "working ship,"
but idt tuch preparations .fort victory as-,would
ensuiestiin case of conflict. Eveninthe deadof
uiightyqwithout the slightest intimation, would the,
drumUbeat td quarters, and .the awakened crew -
wofild  hurry upon deckwith their.hammocks,
likedante when their horeis invaded.,,-A few
ioonents and- battle-lanterns would illuminate
-eely-deck, showing',the gun eicast :1pse,4 the
,Migasin6 sbreened, topmen and boardersjio read-.
iness nto- spring, away, and 'the surgeon, withklis
-mates, far -below, -with their ghastlyappargua
All' thidswas as interestingas it was 'areitiug to
-Aiexispwho. could but regretcleavingthe40oting
- -castl6j-wheetitie -had passed , so.pleasantly; al
thoughthis-hear beathigh witih joy at thepos-,
piet of-a-speedy meeting with his gran@$er;
Y In -came the f'-Nicolaij'nuntil she wasVpppsie
themeitadel -when sherounded4-tqdroppedanghpg
And NOragfie'crewsoon fArledrJIM clo  sof ca
svnss.MYAs'Russia-,wasthen at peae, Withh,
Ottotnan empire, salutes were, PNhangqd, gp 4
the first cutter-a, lowered .Tb9 hij ain'a

11I

10

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.

- whistl, sanoieed the4eartre of Captpas
,were they spated  t  ihe'cuterthan the p ere
let fall and  wth* that tjady 9weep popu  to
the-servicer-thq muspular'arms of her crew pro-
pellegor.ty   s t eety, -e
aThe gonsulrresidenges at Smyrna borderthe
"'  aino , nqyay, and each one is surfpouptyed
bya highfagjtaff, fro? which floats the. el'en
of ths nation, repeend. by the occupant. As
the" NiCg4's 4 '  tter appro'h         , the la ng
the scene, pecare pre noel and .interestigg-
for on-,t*ba4eaquaywere repqesqntiyesgal-
most every cl meThe fairBons ouope, in
their- -mmbmbgopdelotu, were n,0g  ,edith
swarthy lubiims in gay attire, orIaepg Be-
doins from the desert, in white,glowing nunmes;
the green turbans of, those- foslens de epaed
from the ,prophetere groups with thr~i  on
gapsOf the  ee, alnd the high, fur vaPs  the
Persians, Hughjy Turkes; idly in the shade
of gay'awnisgsmoking their snqke-tued vwa-
ter-pipes; b1gandlike dragomen, with theigir-
dles, stfed with pistols, loungedsaoupd. the
doprwaygof thi e conspes; veiled females pus-
tled through themow;pnd the cries of it %pnt
vendors of iced pherbet along the slgqe were re-
echoed by the eapstan songs of the ssifo on
board the anchorgd Ivessels.  Rapidly  djng
over the shoal water, between the shipping and -
the quay,,were hundreds gf "hirlangis,  or
'swallow-bots ' a light species of "c i4e,"
built of their beach wood, elegatly mo fed,
A 9  o dexteously managed thathtqiro seed
often rivals that Qf. the bird ,hose naM, they
bear.               -
jqWPasful)" explahed 4lexis, as he
gazed upon the varied eWebefore im,  4nd
which rose,the domes of marble rposques, with
lofty gWoupt of, npargts and mue in w  ss of
the Mussulman.-
-'Ay,"go0jed Captain Paseyitsch-,_a on-
tergptuos smile plying -over his' weaer-
:bronzed cqtnntenanqe, "it is very beaut '  and
rpassepthe exper3alpppearance of our  n St.
Petersburg; bit yhgn you lgnd, mjo t   ene
wlL sud4e,nly cggp,, Intpad gf such bread
streets asa "gie, wky,"eor the"iM-
pegnsely wide,with p#latiafiouses o rmi   the
pre leda s7idgwalks,you will'fi   narrow,
/aip ,anes4 in  I     ladeda       ca


flfl*-ea6   &amp;&amp; 4arng
I 1., .1 1 'xI.#   Ste 4, -  , -L  r  - )dt Or" yen
meeeitagi ~et you
'" Iff  1 1  .16 .
t'I aIeeM          peakiAlekis
fir~ea~   toYaohorhsath~o*            *w
,$thy  r~bed by the ageup rktf  s rlas
That was aprowehing 'ile  in a. li6nal
*ised . t was 'pr6 lled by   lusty Gi k,
whd'i Mttoliig tbrth&amp;tso adgIn theied BRticl;
sai Seated en'the ea1pes, tMrad nthueien wte
two passekngers. One Ws thappatittly'aged
'wuwihalong; white Ibeara; bet who laked
s   oen aqiginTknose;'iar*ow :forehead
4ld tinit1, gray eyd tht uneufly'prockiAd a
biehtgr t~eu'frshl.k turnais;   ad ~e
ofsufrande," to'ihich the Jewis4 rac6isdom-
a8diiOrital cilmnes. It as Manatlseh, adr
,M1eit merekant' in the Lerd..sthiough 'he 1
id toe lerce, black eye,-tonspressed lipS iud
erect estriage of'ene a'ecustleuid to the camnp
#ahe than to the .eounting-s'eoft- Wth hitml
wa a. young girl, so extremely beauty as to
lntwl Eamdrtloti from all who wawher; neither
was the inarkedby any of 'te ehatach-iistle of
oe OO*Id people, althodgh she alsodwe their
gabgtd was unveiled. Her #lossyghair, in
dl~iamilgolden coins wlrO entwined, fell in
hyWtIdeat her back; her eyda, though large
an mtous, were of a dark liatel; -and aseasy
gl r Ilirlnated heirrichkelive complexion.' The
4Spndin ElissS, of mytholiekd'beautyirhose
asse the girl bote-had riot a mere classic- n-n
issroreootnteuance, odr anshore beautifully-rounde
edaiot,eramoekissInvitingmnouth. Theumght
and grace seemed stamped upon every lineamentlt
ag4 she sdt ettveliped in a hisge'ail, like Ve.
inas~b npot heOcean-shell.
Zgied Iy sone sedret,1mnaccountable impitbe,
Aleils, at a glance,4'dtanid hmte 'faScinating
gleanref those orbs of light that aone'fretk 1
aeti het idag; sweepigg, aihtrrilasheS, anid li
M Juis feet ttheimibt gaae upun 5isel
etilatg oveliness. ElisR, hlahikag beforE
suel. ar ardent regrd, drew her thawI kirounp
eridSe, iIelonintg n ari wrdrthy of a scuip
r'  tud ,  a was soo*tently eatifttsed tha
g 0s#seh who sat opposite andeith his hs9d
aaii the bo* tof te  Mfrgir stgn lbi
aroud to seek a cause. tNhis hotrd he seg
ahe  eagymon--Ar'ad IM,appiulymboitm
'~d;~t oft effd atikkin~o
abeSOjetid'agIwild"thvu b6:nW11

1

'7 [HE 4WS$IA1GUAUIS~AN.

18

'Atextshadellthistime a confse4lsac( his fears that hewg4 mnot Repveru.; le ndegvpmed
situstiemzslthough it wasaissinhat be qugegy- t speak; itopress the captaip"'s had a it gsed
orddA   aosaoi himselffrmn his lethargy.  I    "4s hie own; but ig qi. The peryes ppeateddis-
Amind was:maae tr th ;danger Jwh4 cpegunt- inclined tq;obeythe will of his Tpig; pnl he lay
cred; and, he was als perfqectlyenscieuthat,  n A)elitter as iin a rae raphed, pld,
akhough he was, safe, 'his kind. preserve  had and inanimate.
ma 'an ,nni

but thd'moetnist imadhd'thedirigt Eieftt
o dveotdybtforbthe- bowsthe6dutterVhich
came Ofr like 'a thunderboltr  h  Ahlidrail
eraft as tdld have crushed anuggeheIl 'ap-
taintaske*itsdhspratg to4hItrsrankbrt    t
die -ttir Mound, makingAi sineirele4f dad
*ate, in the midst of which Rfoated Elissa,kbling-
ing to the wrecked'"kirlingist."- The bobitan,
with true Greek ielssswa s*immingtout-
-ly toward the quay;.-but Manaseb wasot vis-
ible. Thrown ino thewIater by the violence of
ith collision, and encUmbere4by-hIs long robes,
head -unkbedeaite'eurfMe i
The frst impulse of Alexis was to thrn*in-
self Into tMe *hter "and swim 'to' the rtene of
Imbea, whom he reached en the cutter hadbden
biought about., Aglanteeonvined him of her
soity" he tipproached her, and thefrantidearn-
estnesa with ihich she exclaimed; 1 Save- him!I
save him I" prompted the swimmer ,:tb o look
around -in quest of :hercoapanion. Just'It that
stomsnt he espied Manaseh's dark robe rise to
the surface, and, by a vigorous , exertion of
strength, he soon raised the :old man's head,
above the water where he ,sustained him with
contmpriiver ease. 'The.eaptain, ieanwhileres-
cued Eliesa-and the cutter had, nearly reached
"Aleanigwhen, seized with a benumbing ,raftp,
he -a ak with his buithen.
. - Although in the other branch of the aeraice'
'Alexis hakbecome a great favorite-with -the en-
tire etrew of the "Nicolai," during the'vo .yhe
from-St,-Petersbukg-; and no sooner did-he dis-
4sp ear beneath the waves thai severeiOf the
savorl, regardless of discipline, dkoppeod their
ears and plunged in search of; him. There was
a  moment of intense excitement, and then a
hearty cheer greeted a foretop-man, who brought
up the drowning pair, holding fast to each-other.
ifted into the cutter, they were sepahaek and,
bere the oars were recovered and shipped, Ma-
iadeh was bought 'to partial consciousness to
Sthegretjoyf Elissa. Alexis; on the contrary,
e reined insensible, although he breathed faintly
I Iat in tervals, showing that life was: not; eutlnct-
Thecaptain- chafed his hands witbltendkr care,'
t lahd, on-reahing the quayi he lost;, d time in
k Iiitg a litter formed of e    -arsupon which,'
mpped" in waih-cloaks, Alexs was carefully
r liNed; Thesadors bore him with sftadied gebtle-
a Vesidstdit Ieitussiani.consuise-gfolloWedby
W a~itOWdmostof whtiomidiswitn&amp;sedhiagallat
i coti6Wtk, and all of whom were len their ex-
;    ieseious of sympathetic praise.-

'un   ussan 'coul, at Smrna, ais we have.
previonIy stited was the venerable' grandfather
ofrour hero;o but did not  ipect a visit from' him,
or even dreatni hathe was nearerthaiti the Ci'riase
-Sian frontier' of Russia. 'The "Nicolail" had
been visible, with the aid of a spy-glas, since
sunrise';' ad ie consul was buily engaged at
his dles, for it was 'i packet day,"'and he wiShed
to conclude his correspondence, that he could
greet his countymen.' Although 'upwarid of
mighty years o age, time had dealt lightly with
his muscular fime; and:his gray hair but added
dignity to his nele forehead, which overhung
mild blue eyes. Soft and winning as was'theii
expression; the lower portion of the consult's face
was rigid; aid*iaround'his compressed lips there
lurked a seorifil expression of deffant contempt
for his'low
Consul Orloff was a native of' Odessa,' that
queen city of the 'Black Sea, nfro  whence he'had
emigrated' when iyouth' to the island of Scio, as
the partner of a large mercantile houe. There
he married' a lvely Ore'k lirl, iho nljr lied
a year, but left him a daughter who inherited her
mItherh 6 a-ms. Anxiously did-he 'watch'over
he as slie gow in beauty but io one knOW, ex-
actlygtiow she itai wooed and won byn 14eheh-
Miah, of noble ,raliy," bditi'po~erished'fortune,
*ho viSited'the isand as stdyercago of aresiel.
'I'1y'Were aecretlymarild, and'hoped'to obtain
foi'givAe4s , hutfOrloft WaO implacable. Months
passMd;,'nd ,hWl proud' btilgeoom 'keptwriting
to"WI a fatrrli-awthat-hheWuld'some-da fte-
 tual,'ani enieating  t hita to% :ke charge of'his'
daughter. OI  yWs't t   edstokidlied with;
hafd her aderdhis daighte as" ineetlelyas ht
hated her husband,--and bittolbdid he reprOhc

-himself when he saw her pallid cheeks and sunk-
en eiyes. She never saw her husband %gain'and,
like her-mother, she was not spared t&amp; Snjoy'Jrer
first-born's smiles.' For month. her desolate
father knew no joy,-and pefpetually repreaieed
himself; but'Soont Wis-infant grandsonbeganr to
engage his' attention.' The love-frst lavished
upon his wilb, and then'upon hit daughteriagain
welled -fort, in full current,-upon his grahdeon
Alexis.' Truly was the lad "the ocean mto the
river ofhis thoughts, which terminated all)'? and,
report said, that it was oir the lad'ssakb thathe
married a second time.-
'The, step-mother,' to whom young Alexis was
entrusted, was onb of those'bewitching ativeas of
Si6; whorealize those imagesof beant'end of
splendor with 'which youthful imginatlon peo-
ples fairy land. 'Here features ere'emahl, but
capable of great variety of exprejlOui/ with a
soul stirring in them that lighted o overy now
aid then into radiant beauty. Butdhies4 who re-
membered her when Orloftf then in the prnie of
life, took her to hishote, alwayssaid -that she
was forced to marry him byanuambidousmother.
Truly did she endeavor to'fulfil tier vow ; but,
though 'she Soon won the ihild' hem she'felt
tat hr' husband's effectiokis wereal-eenatred
upon his'grandson. -Then the spirit of 'hdr joy.
du' being appeared 46 -ink ; teas werd in her
eyeh instead of smiles -ponther lips; tabd,-when
he 'husbandwas appointed couvaflestnmymna,
the'thbiukht'of leaving her homei appearedl to dis-
tract her. The day of departure'arrived ;'but,
just  'the felnccawats aboutto sail,Maedame
'Orlof'waslhot to be foiod. Some sd thstaie
'had bdetittedi suicide;s others, ts db tbad
nlfped ifnd --ttf'uwa &amp; rutnortmiasbhaidleft

I -

-i
iv

CHAPTER H.
YqsIt wslove, ify a Ube t of tendeuie
Triud4im teinMifou, strongt t 1y ilitreas
An  't m7 hn an,, uikreo'by tme."

'4 '1 Vftl Aftrauat "AM)NU&amp;w.


zWN ith CYAfei, ei, 4tffAtWhef@Alesis,
lhil iaf lidu~Agii'bfbr slhte he had l1ft.'
'AtfP&amp;9%es Coesul~don' ednet6Smyr.
Shisr&amp;*fatilf ~ Ned ni 101bf* isi griti~,
the housekeeper.
Such was the gossip among the European la-
dies, in Smyrna, about the Russian consul, whose
character they could not comprehend. Scrupu-
lously exact in his extensive business relations,
he was gravely indifferent to the pleasures of
social intercourse, passing most ofj "s 4's1e0
time in solitude, as if, perpetually overshadowed
by some sad recollections. Often did his brother
consuls, after some jovial gat i4 W!4heiie
alone was absent, endeavor o dipel tIhe'glong
with which his ample brow was shaded; iit
th, einfqrtsegre -vaia ,. Allusions, tpo leptis
40onbrighteuqdiis lus4el~esspygs and clothed
his 8ternfeatureawith 4smle ;-andthiswas also,
nwvelle at, for he hnd hurried the lad, away at
4I eariy aigi. ret, ityiwaagevidentg as 4egis
grew~np~hat e wada~is~grandfather's only source
b appippsa  pnd when newp came that the,
,yqigieft es had been ordered to Circassia, his
inteest ~i thaarspaign kegngboands. Une
fortunately forhim; there were: fey channels of
communicstion in those days, and hwas Irced-,
taaitAor sdh intelligenceaseame hy- the way,
of St. Petersburg, unless upwafron% $4e  of'
war was broght:by seme Greek captain, who had
beenspthewA fSefseafeIeuc-loadof wheat.
benwaastaneke atthe door, and Demp~tri
enierd4with-g spygisa in his hapd-for he hd
beitorderet t wateh thrafrigate
'Wel" .asked, the copsul,, not ,looking upI
fronsrhis jesk. e
4ikA sbeagbas left the nan-of-war, sir, and is
comipgowardedthe nay1 I think two of the
somesrs~a~reig on share."
"TIhey.arein ia hurry to land,; -hut I cannot
meceireathesa natil ay lettersr are finished ;- so
send the drgomany to escrt thpm  are, and tell
dMatinasto have adunceprepred." ,The faithful
-oldeetitorhoweil ndtleft the room.  -
M' Iwmnder;"; ontinuqd the consul, uneon-
sitionisy :sppling topimself, !"ifithere is eoy
Oewiman    massialrgap     eisas distin-
~guishesdhimselfkperheps-e; it cmuld, .ot be,-
.   shsty~darlingboyss4epl"
finfew     oments there was a loudnoise in
othaspeaione lbol -offtheopnsulat;, an4 theold
gentei*a, Iayingidown Ms ppleet $ofscer-
atAtii   sqj  fthe distrband   I. WL;W aita fe r2

sd i11Vi*rwitefid, arp&amp;Wndylifeless,
elfdWe 'e"d'dflis, b fi 1hesi dripping;iet,
Mnd hisdi 4 dI~'ire raatbd soihispnledbraihead,
'wals *is 4ia1o~ved A~lexds4 @Aheseek of his
haft was smitta, 'and hegaveytent toadfibedof
rilf, f01hobet derihe 4eathdikefa epto;cover
it with kisses. Then, suddenly confronting Cap-
tain Paskewitsch, he inquired:
"-How is this? Was it your carelessness?
Is he dead ?"
Nor did he wait a reply; but, throwing himself
0iqAlhs knees, "Father of the universe," he ex-
claimed, raising his hands in supplication, "let
not this last bitter drop overflow my cup of mis-
er,   ;st10aYme my Alexis-the joy of my
life, the ide f my heart! 0 save !-save him I"
Then, sprihging to his feet, he again bent over
the paid fage       4 " pealbut oneword.1" he
crod; '"01 dO notbrak my, sorrowig heart !"
*R: His prayer wvas appargp taf~d. Alexis was
perfectlyconsgious f all thagWs passingaround
him'; and his migd wrestled with his nerves in
attempts to move orto speak..At lst the sway
of reason rturnednd, in response to his grand-
father's earnest treaty, a. conylsie sigh burst
fr4m his. oppresged lungs
-Alwere ovpijoyed; and now Captaja Paske-
witsch briefly explained the  ecident, compli-
mAenting th unlucky hero fr his gallaitry. 'The
gpuswl, deliglite4, directedtiglitter to be carried
up stairs, a surgeon was sent for, and, sop the
whole-establisinent was in commotion. Fires
were kindled; friction and warm blankets were
freely used,--the old, gentlegAnn's tears alngost
equalling them in heat, as they droppedd gst jup-
on the loyed countenance overyhich he bent.
Indeed, sointense, was his anxiety, that he in-
spired;alL around with his hopes-npr:were they
disappointed. gou a hecticflush came over the
pallid cheek, and the axpioggrop sa w the ob-
ject of their solicitude breathe naturglly. With-
,ot opening his eyes he fell at ige into. deep
sigmhere and, the surgeon, graping the consul's
hand, sexlainme4t"Couragg-he is sayed 1" .
,An-hour pasd--a.longlng hopr to the pa-
tient watcher, *hoatazitg onthe sole object
of hi affections. t,1ltAlexis Swo5A, evigent-
ly,ith a deepsensq   pveryhelhning trouble
weighing upbn ispewidergd i*   rhe gazed
arosn4,witqedqnt agtoa pipt,9 Sogn ;his
reyes met thospf the patientystvhr by I'epil-
low; alqd IheAad, e4, inajo y  e  :
"Why,yra       fthg, i thOis you3 Am I
!esliy in  my Jpah

-MIRVf~AYANOUARWSMA!{. 'I-1 5

.,  ryes,iydgar.AAexis i t -Is yees, old
,gmgygfather andyouare-really, athishomso.,ald
.,4eugyau pamnpearonly havingit as sAdb4r
place. Noble fellowI,,  wiowame-yon'.  peril
gonr ife when, so nest mr ndAIll-for that ayadi
,eiqusa Masseseh5 who itscotellingaA the tracie 
hereabuts,.without, az particle ofmeray for av
4 4ew !" repoptedAlexis,, as if; recallwig tle :
yents.~the morning. ,,"But she was beeutifut
kepe they are-safe ,  ,       -
' Safe!, To b sure   Whsy,the captailspId,
m  that beforeathey.could .get-you upon yQgr -t-
tqr, lanasseh and the girl he had with him were
in agoh~er 'Iirlpangist,'ins their haste- twgetqn
board the felucca-riggedlugger, to which .they
-w9e bound when the cutter upset them.4 Un-
.2ee tie surgeon of the "Niolai,' wlwhodi
,Peenenfior by the eaptain,entered .the goomp
n..ctngtsIhort the denunciation. He at onepprp.,,
oAced Alexip in need -9repose, pad, recorn-
.edeperfectiquiet, Unwillingly, with many
qheprgeo te Kstina, the con4l repaired helpw,
iwhpre,;he found many friends waiting to .:,hr,
thir siceere congratulations, Bripging forward
hiachoicest wines, he appeared like a different
nimayjovially engaging in thereigning hilaripy-
ner wps:therea shadow uponlils.usuallyeloqded,
haTowuntilthe surgeon rose to depart.
' Will not, disturb the major," said the Iron-.
heartedi disciple ofGaen,"forhe nceds:reposeo
There has been a great deal of fever in the us-!
- aen. army this year,,and this, shoek will develop''
any seeds of the disease his raystem.mumy jive
caught. I wili -ook in to-morrow,.after  -b1;pe
!fast, Goodi ght,Mr Consu."
* j The prediction-was too co rejt, for longbgo e.
herosyiboams of ,norpan unced thepproa"e
ing day, the watching grandfather detected e# r
,ed'sy, ptows of a hijfever; and when the sdr-
geon came4he found A4xis delirious. A V sly
Ad'qtadilygwatching yteP side of the yeung
man's couch, his sgrandfatherpermitted .powneie
else tofan, his feyered brow ortg mQisten his,
cooling lips. Alexis was very, very ill; hut after
leng~~dyasof exiu suspense, iniwhich life ai4
death. contended,, as it were, for the npstery
threwere symptoms that his atpongconstitptigh
qwuditriarnph oyendisearo9-  , ,, e o.a: m
e, MhnlsGedenclaimgdothe 40onsulrwhen,
d *e~sprgeon snade ,thisweleome annouaenest;n
waind4atinas added acheatfelie( "Amq en ie
destroying ai~gel passed gdsin    gskde

behind, while qopei beaming like -the imoon
emerging -frr tA cloud,icastia.bithtlradiance
around the sufferers'. pillow  iThat ,day Aleais
managedto situp; andsaw Captkin Piskewitdeh,
*o wasodelighted -thatwhonu hekreturned o
board the "Nicolai" he torderelan extra istion
ofgrog to, be served ot to his crew% .
!Noro wei tokens df female interests wanting,
for Smyrna boats ,of large number of. mar-
-riageable i damsels, daughters, of the"numerous
;European residentss.' -Some -of these are not
only very beautiful but-use all the  attractive:arts
of their Turkish associates,1-yet, although, many
a passing travellerror -naval officer poetically
-vows thatlhe thereleaves "his heart -and-soul,"
it is- rarothat one-offers.his hand.# In the eyes of
this phalanx, Alexis was a most attractive -Per-
,sonage--sot that when he was pronounded'out of
danger theypoured in rapid snceeesion of jel-
lies, preserves, another deliaci6s. With, each
portion -eam amessage,-so-that before Alexis
became fairycohvalbscenthe cold judge of the
culinary talents of, every unmarried: Euro6an
Sinyrnhite ia
He tasted heir sweets, and he Jent them kind
thankss; but his-thoughts ever wandered to the
fair one whoit he. saw in the kirlangist, and to
save whomhe: had -risked big life. 'His gralhd-
father refused to allude.to-Manasseh, and-denied
all knowledge of his having audatighteri hor
could Katina obtain :anyinforinationupoh the
subject.. As for Demetri,--4roin whom Alexis
once endeavored:toobtain some enlightenment,
t    worthy servitor mot only declAred-his ignc-
iance as to Maiasseh's dotnestic arrangements,
ibut stigmatized him as- a' cunning speculator,
who would yet make the- consul suffer for having
trusted:him.
" As my n'asteissays," continued the 'indi-
nant Greek, "the very fact of his not Stopping
'to inquire after yon shows his deep ingratitude;
and the girl wab probably us forgetful ds he-was."
All this was wrong,-untrue; unkind, The fact
nwas- Manassehandhis fair charge -wet on-.their
way toi.luggerabout tosail for thd island of
Scio, and'knew ere they again left thequay,that
Alexis was. out of danger. There werd reasons
whyMnossh lidnbt wish to remain.--nordid
be, pdietps,appreciate -the service rendere4him ;
bute Elissa retained-a profound sense of gratitude.
iWayhe iimage of Alexis as he buffdttd.the
waves, was indelibly, stamped ulon. her -heart.
As a slight obstrdteion willaesometimes, tui-n the
uwansafra large streain, so-that biefps.taining

44                              bV.K#IjOM-AN-


~16                         Tl-iU rssLAN
interview, during:which no: a veisatiod was
had a listing influence -pon' the
ydsng girk -att   night didehe dt upon the
dOek df the;felucta, gaming at 6e imltection of
the-stars in the Vinklingwater, hich absoibed
their every beauty-and eventhdsshe felt-con-
scious that her soul hAdArank in the fgrm andi
features of hiint *ho had perilled his,ife-ti save
her.- eventt wqre her supplicadons for his wel-
faretaVHim *ho ever heirs,. fervehtt prayer, ere
she closedhereyea in slumbe  In dreams she
saw his noble fotma andi-O the morrow, she but,
renewed het thonughts.
Scio was"at last reached, and Elissa found.
herself installed as the mistreSs Of a beautiful
country  buse, upon the outskirts; of the: city.
Situated within a large enlurei, lt*as sur-
rounded-by walks, shaded by orange or almond
trees, while at intervals iere: parteIresof gaY.
lowers4  Behind rose the purple crags which
constitute a "back-boe " tor theisland, their
precipitous sides ooveredwith -Alrant shrubs.i
Turnitg from ,this bold ,dhtlineiif verdure, the',
city reached to the shore; basking in all the rkh.
Itsaof;amlit oriental architectuge while Across
theunrudied waters thesummits ofverdant iBlet
stadded the clear horisonf In this paradise,
Fissa had everything that'cotIdMninisterto her
wanra azqd herpleasures,'yet she was farfropi
being content.a
Zoflyears;she had resided at Smyrn, the only
cetapanion of a doting uncle, whoaoughtno jy
save id hr smile, Hewas.neither god looking
nor anable, noreven interesting toother#, yetr -e
possessed her ineffaceableaffetionwJ--ay.,and he'
merited it. Not an hourtcoidUhi-sparefromhis,
uruits dat was not paased in uiistering- to
her comfort, or in improving her mind. And if'
he:kept her jdlously secluded, he so held up e
teiptations of the world to her uhsophisticatM
mind,thatsh- rejoiced in her seclusion, Indeed,
she han tot a thought befon4 her garden tralls,
eseeot ofher IAther; of'Whom she saw little"
knew little. Ocdasionally,on;goingto the break-
fast tiblo-she would-find him thgerd,having7rq r
wed.during the eightt in a iysteious mininr;
and-then he would vanishkas hetcame. Sie ftl
enfdent, too, that his Je*isho gaswa s bsutl a
disgulsi,6 and,althoughshe wasattachidtohimr
and respected him, chillingfeais were .'r isjo-
cited with his-image'in 'her hearthilehj
unacle*as thpe diet of her devoted miudn0l'
It was motthefore, to be'wonddre ati
aewas .ll at ease when thasti sulamnd o

GARDSMAT.

prepare for a voyage'witli  e father, id for a
newihome at his oause in5eld. Thes44ll"Whd-
for hppearauce of Alexis apon theuscee olf her
thoukhts-somewhat'diverted heiarsadness; but
she Wan not the noreonietent in ber spaceIPus
snangon, with Its eetenslie gsoudsivhereher
ofathal left herd enly remiaining e day. "The
dark, old house at Smyrna would hae beeft e-
Iferable, although the ond Window 6f hei room
thiftt id the only bne-whidh eetfithiide&amp; Wviw
of anything except brick Walls. BiAtlfil as
*as th&amp;  bl6minggatden t Sio, sid"ould
rather have paed thatibrief Wall betweeh the
scanty jarteei ; at xntyria, expeetin o e ar
the Wellt-kown footsteps thai anidunced a pa-
r1ntu ith his fond emhrace.
But she was ar aWay, Astranir In a tbiIge
land. The servants had been -hiredwith the
lhiae frotm a wealtlig SciOte;,Who hid ghe to
Constantuinople hopig to purchase a title'.- or
had shetny acquaintances on the island't*bom
she eduld communicate her hopes-anil he Nor-
rOws. So sh  hld h ut paeethe garde' bty&amp;y;
ahd, is sight atme on, gOA0 bfrnAt herWindow
Into the- lear sky, as if l okihg 'fOr n angelic
messenger tdOAnnouncothe arrival 6f her father.
Affandsoindtiihhes her heart wold rejoice in
visionary inteiriews With the :gallntjirouth to
whomAihehad, ueonsciotly, pledged hMIyve.
His image was measured In her AAiet-a bUikht
tread in herIlife*eaving tieias a tiny Iay of
sunshine streams into te darkness ofiA dungdom
ielll
So passed Welks,;i*hen,, one day, the captain
of the lugger,in which she ha  tone from Stayr.
t' called,,to ascertain(if she hkad a ty mesag tc
send back, ash"h wasi to ailthe inextday. He
was i fie'specimuen of an Efiglish i~al efflcer
tdeoerved favoIitelnd had brought h' ernet olo
I&amp;n nclei. feW days previok.
"I11 wlivbing youw tpackage one board,'a4 w
Elisaats reply  aind the ieit day, ordering  heia
eant to get a cAiquie, andr eteppotentheIdee
of the felueta just ais the anchor rese.
f"out package?" asked'tht ciptali.-
A4Iliassible. 'What-wilI yor fathejsaft"
-!ut Elist aia not to b6tiWtedeihtt plan
adt,;e last, the good-hearted -ato agreed tle
her accompany hifehWrteiv that lefafhe
Intended'tO teuar With him"0delioMICer was
ne~negd bird ahapplerL-Ahd;4,sfrhpag4et
Thiaret her joy iag es~ell by the11heudgha h
ibdusightete Ailnit. 9

CHAPTER IL
theres I 0 55on1
no".speral or matial hah hista ;
7 t evehItos aOPP* s ipne es psh heair
With jihasitoma, as tai eof the-heart."l

hsc9vsa     --What can be more delightfql
tha   o leave a couch where one has wrestled
with suffering, and tp gaze from an open window
upo'n the uxuries of vivifying nature--especially
when the prospect is, such as met the convaies-
cent, game ofAei Orloff. It was some time
after he -waspronounced out of dangerby his
attendant surgeon,.that he could stand without
assistance; but he experienced none of the ennui
attendant upon confinement after he couldtott,
with unsteady ses, to thelarge projecting win-
dows on either side of his room. One of these
windows fronted the harbor, while the other hung
over into a large coirtyard in the centre of
which"as i lovely little garden, laid out with,
true Oriental tqste, It was filled with frograut
rQses, Which vied in l1uxurious beauty of htie,
while in their midst was a-marble fountain, whose
sparkling je, cooled the'seented air. Flocks of
bqiful doves bathe4 in the shower of refresh-
ingpy;_at    a pair of bulbnls, who had ci-
sea 4figwering, aais tree for their nept, charm-
ed the moping and the eventide., with thir.
liquidzelqly.
Entirely di'reot, yet none the less interest-
ing, yps ths view fom the window lpoking out
upon the bay.-for the quay between the consulate
an?,t   ar wo    a va4ing scene of inte6at.
Now a carayan of heavily-laden camels would

pass, patieitly following, in regular file, peering
with their long necks into second story windows.
Then, to the music of a discordant drum, wopld
come a relief guard of 'urkish soldiers, miser-
ably at ease' in their -uropean uniforms. ;Loud
cries from a Nubian driver would clear the way
for an " araba,"-a clumsy conveyance drawn
by a yoke of sleek oxen,-containing the lady-
birds of some "harem," let out for an airing ; or
more vigorous shouts would part the tide of bu-
manity to let pass a gang of sturdy porters,
staggering under poles to which was hung their
burthens. Among these prominent objects; lil e
the fine tracery in a gorgeous Persian Shawl,,
were individuals equally"remarkable in their ap-
pearance. Sone w~ro the gay garb of Albania;
others, the dark Armenian robe; While it was
not, unusual to, see smooth-aved Parisipos in tho
latest attire of their boulevards, dodgingt9.avoid
bearded Moslems in richly embroideied pelissei,
who joggedalong upon their doneys, regardless
of the Christian dop who night infest their
paths. Swa hy Arabs, armed to the teeth, gaed
stoically7upon scenes as unlike their desert hiaunts
as were the veiled women, huffing in yellow
slippersunlike an occasional italian milliner on
her way to some old Turk's cluster of wives,
with European fashions.
Beyond this brilliant panoramic fringe was the


THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.

19

bay-its silver tide studded with vessels quietly
riding at their anchors; their masts, and spars,
and tracery of rigging clearly defined against
the clear sunlit sky, while the flags of various
nations fluttered from their mast-heads. Thread-
ing their way among the anchored fleet were the
market-boats, with large wing-likesails and gilded
sterns; while, towering above all, was the dark
hull of the " Nicolai."  On either side of the
harbor were beautiful "kiosks,"-or country-
houses,-surrounded by gardens over which na-
ture had thrown a rich garland of flowers.. And
far in the background, dotting the bleeding of
sky and water, rose craggy islands, shadowed
with thick wood.
The consul passed a great portion of his time
with the convalescent, pointing out the various
objects of interest visible from the windows, and
questioning him about his campaigns. It  d,
it seemed that the old gentleman would never
weary of hearing about THr battle, or of the
memorable passage of the river which so inter-
ested the Grand Duke Nicholas. Singularly,
though,-at least, Alexis thoughtsoA-he eevq
alluded to the more distant past. In vain did
the young man occasionally endeavor to lead
thi convrsaiori bac it  the ' ayb of his ebid-
hogdiewith a hope of elicmting suoie information,
abo'ia his arentss. "hie consul had, evidently,
a lirrjr of die subj6-so much so that one day
wgen Aleis inqiired:
Grandfdier, was m  fatheriat afl mii tary in
his tastes 'i
-The old gentleman arose and replied in astern
tone of voice:
"You should have sense endth, Major Or-
loff, todiscover that, in ie Russian consuate
at    fna,,bgons are bygohes. I have ever
endealored to 1  a fat ert6 yu and, badly as,
I ma     performed the duties  ou must be
contentiith me."
nay,' smid'Alexis, anyder      -
but, ere the sentence was fairly begun the consul
hiW    vehis: hand as      assliriugh th
41 __ii'   be.passe       h-h'
door     enge came aga      w h as a*,kind'as
befor 'bit mae no 'liui6n tfti(e past, And
fe ltft  t   o to retnothesubt
Occasionally, ti6ughecolle-tiops of his child-
hqil w uld pass across hi mind with  e shd-
'owy pretinctness of object seen when the eyes,
are li-ejoid ; but white he endevvrd to grasp
the r emiseence  thus fflitting 'tfirouigh the twl
ligit o his brain, they would vanih like-a Qr-
gotendreamwhich thi   a   . iudgl  to re-

call, but has nothing save a remembrance that
he dreamed.
As Alexis recovered, he became acquainted
with the various subordinates in his grandfather's
employ; all of whom, with one exception, ap-
peared to take great -interest in explaining the
various departments under their especial charge.
But Monsieur Lavalette, head book-keeper and
cashier, evidently regarded the major as an in-
truder at his desk, exhibiting a surliness that
well became his appearance. This, it may be
well here to remark, was anything but prepos-
sessing. He was a short, wiry-built man, with-
that disagreeable- expression upbn his austere
countenance which is the ineffaceable stamp of
bad passions, coined by that mint-master of
humanity, the heart. His piercing gray eyes
glowered from beneath gray overhanging brows;
pegishtsre played around his compressed
lips; and,altfiough the top of his narrow head
was bald, there was a band of thin, dark hair,
grizzled with gray, that came from behind, turn-
Aing4around hisnears into a scanty pair of scraggy
dhtigkrsg Alway Yiressed in a full suit of black,
the gentility and the neatness of his apparel,
with the fineness of his white linen, showed thai,
v ?6l4ugh he had b'eeii,"Ab4eit'foinom"h'hfivWe
"ans for nany a year, lie had hit Grntt h fiis"
arassoeItons,'sofaasetltte         sed
qcrne".the boulevard' edjila  oft bak Nst  't-
ter-attired" bourgeois" 'thf thie clier of  on -
suIOlof, who was the rniodb1 e   rf luj IA-
held up as apatternto the yohng men who6
eae fron Europe-to win a ortu ier to octipY
Off
a grave..
Mdnsieur Lvalette had ernd    ouiin-
roma r o'n. after the ei r Orlofftubished
ni selfi Smyrna, as a merecoyistofleer
4 situation 'for whicly an 'iiiimate iciaintiineo
French, Gerati and iEish qualifidd him.
Posssfuga 'retentivd meiry, with an idc-
fatabli application, 'h eentilljr i ehdel th'
responsible posi   that lihe now occupibed ; nort
dii iAuistir-y diminish, a1s'4is'oo'apt't6 be the
ease, with the inrease of hii ilarf. Oil' the'
coAi  ,,the circles arQund  hfi t ap 1'
to conentrate closerer  uda bltsdrarounftid
ledr, that Was alWayso a 'irly po  -11 ti
the consul, for snie g  rd p   ~io' ii  tid o'
which we write, had contented himself'WihC -
cgsinal glances at thealice'die.
v, voras Consul Orfow ai' l  i niil1hig tm  id"
npa' portion of' iis business respotisilfility to none
so devottil to his inteik ts-hehWa etfi6tb .

V4sselkW&amp; wfeily ighted with*lusgjous4ga
or raisiuarto Lwtdtn wwa wo   r4todthe
loomkofGegnany.; rew sitk'to te au4fstrra
at ,Lyons ;  dfromeh quartercame bakar
goes pffgoods:euitd tte wantseof Asig Miner..
The differieWOSabetweeu'therports 4and theex-
ports to eachi,'planoapreamade alpAby bills of exr
change-someti'v    ,sonetimngs pai4, The
coUsul,,9f gcoo edietel Macha issctina, fipre-
ing tIh  price ofnartcles, prhed in; thesur-
rotnding district,*selljglgthe $ ,supercrgges,
and ordering-goods. that he aperingne tiip
sale of. All this kPPmaso1msy4hat ie was
gladto.Ontrust Layaletta with the millutiss of.ac-
covatss exchanges and balances S and feltsure
that they/wereqin trusty hands.
Monsieur ,Lwalette wasiajbachelor,--at least,
he said' so,--when, he -ent: t  ;France for hi
nieeon eceivinar V  sufllcient salary to ipablQ hlim
to 'otohouse-eeplug. The girl. rrved, and
he took her to a sombre old house, on - the oue
skirtsof ethe pity, where he resided, but no oie at
the counting-house ever -darkened shis doors,
neither c had they seen the child since shejauded.
-indeed they had. almost:forgottenever having
seen her nt~all 'Every morning. he emepunctu-,
ally to his desk, bringing a luncheon in basket;
nordid he cease wortkantil-sunset, when he care.
fullY'locke4. up his books in, a safe, and went
home. Noban knew how he occupied his Sun-
days-or festival'days. and, had he ever been seen
with the:6ther Europeans on such occasions, en-
joying the varied promenade- at the "Caravan.
Bridge," his' appearance would: have -,created
more astonishment than would have been excited
by the'absenceof any other-blackihattod resident.
Thea secluded habits were pleasing to his em-
ployer, who knew that more loquacious book-
keeperswere often temptedy at the. social board
of some r rival merchant, to reveal the trade se-
crets of their house. 'As to the timid child, who
had been entered on a bill of lading from. Mar.
seilles, he had forgotten all about her.
No'wAleiti while atthd military academy,,had
shown such an aptitude for accounts thathe had
been selected to keep the-quarter-master's books,,
and there conceited a greattliking for intricAte
calculations. .Debtor and creditor,rations and
forage, zae-age and primagewere' music to his.
ear; whileFhipractised eye revelleddan long colh.
umns of figures, multiplications or quotients.. -It.
was by no' means strange, then, that. he should,
feel :mdre euridsity in the bulky- tomes in his'
grandfather's countingoroom; than in ty yag

- wlerpithsg di re IIIsee;heJpffhgg heo.1
aool da9T asserted; fr hgggqqe
. ropen. nrchng4ise  mpted the.turpaued e
,ers~tunddstelheir stoeksjaiiitle gnanar.-rhp,
Aptoo, *ie evidsstlesire of  osiewIvalett 4
keep hin fejA the ledgerIpadlh# Fe au
Sious, togaiongtexa     oindy
pnentietei.his wisitthis grfatr.
\.' Qerily, ,uy!dara y,"        R " t Ih
"cetajay. You '   n~thep~ in 4ettgr r49r,
'llaraq$, than tlgse pf liImp,eial  es y
fort a   re 'tat, Tavlete   as npsuper
Now that, I-think  it tljg is Bopething th
wish you would find out; so copalg dwN wi
,me before he,laves fpr his 4n." .9
They were 4oo inte1 for just as tley entered
the inner .coquipg-room, the ponderous keyaof
the old-fas'oned brick and iron safe resounded
in the lock. A frown clouded theFrechuRas
fac. hI tbe pu, the key in his:pockp and in-
"Do you wis i anything, consul "
"1Never mindthis afternoon;never mind.  u
know I wish to ,order an invoice of hard, .wre
and shouId: like q. know how. large adaft  ggap
draw upon Lon4ou.. Yo have riot fond , ive
for a balance of that account forseveria months,
and as the majorhere wishes to keep his epsm-
nissariat knowledge in practice, I thought we
could let him square it up."
A, bright scarlet spot ha4 appeared upon the
cheek .f the book-keeper while .his eisployer,
spoke ; but he calmly replied:
"I was not aware ,that you were s anxious
about the English account, knowing s you must
that the balance to your credit will, nore than
cover any draft necessary.. nButifygu wish, I
wilA return here to-night and aid the major jn--
"Never :mind,", interrupted the consul, "to-
:morrow willdo. Besides,-the Spanish consul is
'coming to-night to hear the major recite his ear-
paign. So good day, gavalette."
As they left th4.,.counting-room, the French-
man appeared jo breathe easier, g nd a ghatly
,pallor again took possessign-of his cheeks.' uI-
teringtp himself he left the erItsula,threaded
,several narrow lanes, and did not look up until,
lie arriyed at hisown door, where lieh rtledtlie
iton ring, confined by a notched bar, thatervd
,as, a knocker.'
0 olblaekwoman soon opened th door
and. ushpre4 -er. aster in.,  i   urniure
graced. the.eutrance, or tije room into hici
led ;but LavatletsYpassed    ineetly to a smallr

18

THI G4 MU, 88 M.A.,


T1IF~~M1SS~A~ 'UA~RDMAI~.THE RUSSIANi GUARDSMAN.                                       2

apaneNt,&amp;d'liyinibf which Id ddliito e:
a g   W-gid    im61 dfedik avew of 'thW htbof.  e
Rie0iffd *Ith himrrorl';d filed g
with ide'aedeb  fdleste,* stringr*bAld w
had        V buiwief'i5n th b~nd6doof om0' I
Padsakn~lihdlble;f fe'no  lady *Md 'tial614; s
Ag4e'Ai  as*Mresihe'deedis, it' did notappeat to' e
awaken pleaiahtkind olodid idi th6 'bkeest 1f ita' C
msskRdeie  upitt, who wailk6d ioodiffto and
fro'eve14tly ib4bed 'in desjtheught; A pe- hi
c   i  ale     he 4ing oA tih' oute door  apL h
peM   'o rofiseli    n", nd helistened atnti'ely. f
Sobn 'f&amp;6tst&amp;$s *btheaid thie d6otopened; and
MakisaNi eitere.                           g
"What news ?" eatlaimned Lavalette.      o
g' Wis   Wal1; ind fy deliverer'"       h '  1
"Too will for out safety. Ydu 'knew, of t
coi re_,hi ''is                          p
"tMylidift fold me-"                     c
"Atid" efY6  heart," interrupted  afAette,'
"must get him out of the way at once, or all *1in Y
be discovered. Nut"fancy, -the' youngster lias
takeissubh a passion 'for book-keeping 'that oldc
OAr'has'given himn permission -to'exaslsine hist
Loidon accounts.' Have you sold the'diaftV"-
kcor good gold. -I found an English vessel-
at S6al, that has brought arms" sAd powder fort
the old-be rebels; and he was glad to have
good  sper instead of a metal of which' someI
Barbary pirate might lighten him. He is thereI
by this time, and the old 'tyrant will soon find
hig aeeouht note evenly balanced than he'thinks t
for. But that is not why I have hastened back
-thete is trouble'brewing-in Scio, and a strong
fori is 1ioedisary to put it'down."
lalk ot of that is brewing," passionately
exijieldn  t avilette, "when a day May prove
my iubs. Iet that boy once get interested' in
the compliAted' accounts and he will unravel
thein, exposing all. Besides, I have regrets
letting her go'ever since her departure."
",But, I tell you,Ae isWell!'
"She may be-I'doubt it hot.' Yet how sad
and Oreary It Is here, where her shile once glad.
dene4'my coming, and where-" "
"She coustled your peculatlonf," intet;4pted
Mkiaissh. .
eulagons i" said fLavalette, in  a dornful
tone. "Thit from you'"
"lo, no. I was wrong," replied 'Manasseh,
in a isotung ione.' "The plan wasmie, and
you   dutoa   ed' It out, fairly eiMtng your
shiron i   eiooty, whilf I shoildbithe crime.
Aisdis  A iee4    id he not destroy my life,

ttitel'ity'irghtedtdteas f happiness,and'
at eiteveriny sunlight ef joy    No,
ood"Lavalette yuhate done nobly, saidyou
Yill'be'riehly're'tatded. 'A fea t*4 hs aosi,
nd yo4lctuh ejoy'your native air;happy:ii the-
ociety 6f your nieceprith wealth enough, to iue-
base rset. And he"the'proudithd haughty
rlol, will be disgraced, degraded) despised."
The eyes of Manisbh fished as ho spoke,, and
e gund his teeth writh. coi*nisiv'rage, while
is fingers twitched netviusly a -if they would
in tear in pieces the oiject-bf his animosity.
" Bravo !""46xclaitedLAVale ,With a satanic'
rin of delight;"net do' you know that-afterialI
ur plans mnyfail "JA!fter yeard 'of degrading
umiliation,-my long-eh"erlh dreams of Wealth,
hat you have' so ,steadily iursed, nay be dis-
pelled like tie bj of the moring'when thesu
asti forth its beas. The pise italmost within
griap-shall wei see it snatched awaytI Wish
you to see the object of your hatred triumph?"
"You speak'in riddles. Is n6t' everythIng, sue.
eessfilly brought to a close I Have not drafts,
either real or forged, gone everywhere that funds
await his command? Is not youth niece safe,
and can you notretire,-without suspicion, before
the explosion 1"
" One day more," answered Lavalette,'"and
I could leave the ruined bankrupt to- the tender
mereis of his creditors, and thedegradation that
invariably awaits a i Usgian whobrings his na-
tion's honor into contempt by' his individual
misconduct. One day: more-."-
#4 And why not-a week?- The ,raft is barely
paid, so that there is, no fear of hearing from it,
and the lugger will be at anchor yonder to-mor-
row," said Manasseh, pointing tOwards the harn
bor as he spoke..
,But the examinationI. Listen. Firmly do
I believe in thefinexorablo degrees offate ; and
I almost knw that if the young man examines
the books, all-is lest."
"What can be done'1"
"What can be done" asked Lavalette., "Did
you ask that qmtestiony when you-first persuaded
me to undermine the nan who had treated me
with-eonfidenee'! Did you ask that-question, as
-you encourAged my wrohg by picturing a golden
fqiure as the price- of my success"-  Have you
asied that questlbn, as you have drawn in the
meshes of your net!-and now is a'boy to step
in and leave me to, suffer all, while my poor
niecek is destitute'! What is to, be done! Do
you askethat question, when the offsprg of

him  you so fiercely hate stands in the way ' IIhad forgotten that," growled the French-
Rather let me ask you-you who would rain, man. "But can we not remove him for a time,
degrade, kill the lion-how his whelp can be re- and thus carry out our scheme ?"
moved from the path of vengeance!"           "Exactly; and now let us have something to
Manasseh, who had sank upon an ottoman, eat and drink, most worthy host, for vengeance
was, evidently, a prey to strong emotion. There gives an appetite. We will arrange the matter
wasa a moment's pause, and 'then, springing to so that your darling books can be wound up in
his feet, he exclaimed:                    true business style." And the two then went into
"Lavalette, I faltered; but you forget that the larger room, where a table was already
the young inan saved my life at the'risk of his!spread, at which they sat down. Opening a bot-
own. Yet, even he shall not check my thirst for tle of champagne, Lavalette filled the glasses,
revenge, although'I cannot harm him. Remem- and gave as a toast:
ber, too, he would have saved Elissa. She, too,  "To the downfall of that prosperous mer-
was in peril."                        '    cant-Consul Orloff!"
2

21

- 'THR' ItIL1198tkiW,'OUAADSMANO"


CHAPTER IV.
"A form more active, light and strong,
Ne'er shot the ranks of war along;
The modest, yet the manly mien,
Might grace the court of maiden queen."

" Tiu CAMP !" said Alexis to himself, as he
sat at the breakfast table with his grandfather,
and looked up from a note just handed him by
Demetri. Then, after perusing the missive a
second time, he asked:
"Are there any troops quartered in this vi-
cinity ?"
"Yes," replied the consul. "Some appre-
hend that the revolution just broken out in
Greece will extend this way, and a considerable
force has been raised by the Turkish authorities.
But, why do you ask ?"
"I have just received an invitation to visit the
camp, this morning, signed by Osmar Bey."
" Accept it, by all means. I have never seen
him, but learn that he is Christian by birth, and
the most daring officer in the Sultan's forces.
The ride to the camp is short-just long enough
for an invalid, andDemetri shall attend you.
Of course you will go in uniform; and I wish to
see how'you look in your major's epaulettes."
Before Alexis could reply, there was a clatter
of hoofs in the court-yard, and he went to the
window to ascertain who was' there.. It was a
mounted Mameluke, who held by the bridle a
spirited Arabian charger, superbly caparisoned,
who chawed his bit andproudly tossed his head
as if to invite a rider. Now if there was any-

thing for which the young officer had a passion,
it was a fine horse; so that when Demetri came
in with an announcement that the Mameluke had
come to offer him the use of the steed below-
one of Osmar Bey's own steeds-there was no
longer any hesitation. Hastening to his room,
he soon arrayed himself in full uniform, and de-
scended to the court-yard, where he sprang into
the vacant saddle, managing the spirited animal
with that graceful self-possession peculiar to mil-
itary equestrians.
The consul, with several friends and all his
clerks, were in the court-yard; and the old gen-
tleman's hcart beat high as he heard encomiums
lavished upon his grandson. His graceful fig-
ure, yielding to the motions of his steed, had
that supple grace which leat an additional charm
to each well-proportioned limb. The confine-
ment of a sick room, too, had so blanched his
soft skin that the ruddy blood-tide was visible
beneath; while the delight he experienced at
finding himself once more in the saddle, gave'
life and animation to his frank, open counten-
ance. Then his costume-the rich uniform of, a
major in the Imperial Hussars-was strikingly
beautiful, even in that land of Oriental luxuri-
ousness of personal, attire. A tightly-fitting suit
of blue cloth was nearly covered with heavy

T H IIl

gold   iAide    rhiie a icarlet pelisse, trim-
Sq   richness, hung loosely from
his' sl4iaders, ith the same'graceful mod ve'oent
as Gaied the pliinefrom his fur cap, in front of
4vhich Gai-e thie irkperidl arms in solifgold1. " The
hilt 'an'd Jcabbard 6f the eibi'e, hngiiig at his
fide, were of the sameprecious metl, richly
The stirrups needed soine 'adjustiient, and
whiis  eneitri was arrangig one o thi leiith-
er, 1Uonsieur Lavalete'cnime, bowing, to the
Other side of the horse.
"M jr," said he, ilan oseqiia tone, ai-
tiig every word cine hiding forth,'like vitor
ii HAted iron, "he account o   ish to ,ex
auine is ready for your inspection.".
h     di e  s somethi  sopeeuliar in the old
mans looks that Alexis 'forIgot all about his
6r    "d the camp, anid his   sit. A secret
hnpulse warned him to look at the accounts
thus thrust before himwhenitwas evident that
.e coufd not inspect them.    ut the consul
called out-
'   ever nind  the accounts now,, Alexis.
Tliear;n  - and, eri1ps,  onsieur,
Lavale t ean find time togive   tie informa-
tbnuiJ sb need.
61Aare complimentary, Monsiiur-Coul,"
si Lavaiiette, iith a Ihow, although  is eye
flashed fire; and he retuirneA into .the countiiig-
lioie.
cAdiu, grandfathei'. Good day, eterei
exclaimed Alexis, touching his horse with his
osp'urs and cainfering out of the court-yard, foi-
lowe'd by the Mameluke.   A  gallant-looking
horseminn was.this afendant, with  owing cos-
tume, a curved 'scimetar, and a4 air of that
hangity pride peculiar to the successful soldier.
To- the surprise of Alexis, ie spoke ingood
French   "Tturn to the left, major, and give
your horse the rein.' He knows the iray."
Away W'iey w'nt, merely-skirting the city
aind then taking the road to Manser, taiiaivinds
between gloves of orange and citron ree's, oc-
cisionaffy intersperscdwith Iuxurous gardens,
iii which were stone resideneandpdfkling
fountains. 'The sky#a          ciudi and
k  as  without ic
notiuigcheckdd the brighinds of the sun's rays,
that nio hoWed himslf'aliovi e th purple sum-
mit of Mount Sipylus, and perforated the. yil
of .den6 fog yet, enveloping tht poied rAge
of hills at it' sise. A th4nli-'nistsdisap eared
in' the'uper air,-like the dr owp.ene  of a' thea
tre,-they displayed fieli'beitiities as they iNded

gradually from the viewr rolling upwairdA ia
majestic grandeur, until they were 'lostInvapor.
Summoned to retire, the lingering phantois of
the night appeared reluftnt to obey th rqst
luminary, bui left in griceful folds thiat (aed
awpiy as tre day advanced.
io Alexis, this immediate contact with ia-
tire.was delifu  and he dashed along
breed n rves and elevated spirits. 'No opvhp
as not, tius  njoye4 the ioepmotive
deice pf O'riOtal travelling cancomprelherd its
joy. Liberiite from the ' i-created worladof
Circumstance,,the horseman not only enoppy th(
ra    iopti9n o irs noble .steed, but holds con-
W'rse wiernaie 'her ve    fascise      ur
vqasinesses. S'
hero, it must aso 'be remembered, had not en-
joyed his favorite ,ercise since lie had left iiuh-
sia; and l is ii akination, aftr having been
cabinedat sea and confined on shore, revelled
like, a loing-caged biri iet loose in jts pst
haunts.
On on tliey a        the Mameluke e
a resPeiful distance  ehind Alexis,  w, a
too much exhilarated with enjoyment to   k
of any one else. Al  t once as he reeched ,he
summit of it high hiIl, he wondered how far dis-
tant the cump w.. Drawing in his rein, he
made a sign -thatbrougit his attendant to his
side-altlio ch t    c  with which the'Mame-
lukekept hi 'horse one pae in the rear of that
of his superior sowed his military educatiitn,
"How far to the casPs, ergeint 1" in rei
Alexis.
S"About two French leagues major," wis Ile
reply, accdmpanied by a stiff salute, that ap-
peared iirangely at ariance with the man's (ri-
entai costume.
"Surely,    i.aAlexs "you are n        o-
hamedaui?".
No,'major, nor much of a Christian, either;
yet I am a Moslem by birth.
"And by education?'' asked the office  who
bd ,brought his horse to a wAlk thafhe might
the beitter.conversy.
"By edueitio'n! ,Al, hsa ma'or, the hitory
of my edciaion 'would' be a long one fo it
would detail the ,victories and te dqng'ues of
the greatestwarrior in the' world;".
'Surely you never served under Napolbon ?"
"Halta moment, ,major,
so ner was Mtis 'equst coMplied.4lifN than
the Marnetke opened "hisjcket, and thero,' 90
his great surprise; Aexis sw upon an 'unlr
vesi the 'glory-honored sta" of the Leiion  t


Uonor. Pointing to it with one hand andaing
his IArbaniwith ile otfier' the' weaiher-broinzed
gave itAnte."
c tas  e 'n-aicathed' ioihe memory
6t tib-great  ipdboue 66 hei-no- has it per-
chance diminished sinee -aiong allattaLheslto
iS afsdies of Enr'ope,  1terenemies or'friends
6f tranee, that Alexis reg'aildad the i ameluke
with rerence. '
"' litle thought;" sayd fie  "tha I should
evebe attsnled  y one who 'Ad seive4 under
the'great ca tin'     .
Thei. littie'coral,' if yo please , major,",
replleA tile etan' btnit''  up  is jacket.
wb used to all li when he used to walk,
about through the bi-avous, now iestng vt1h a,
prvite, now recallngsosre hattIe souvenir with
a grumbling old grenKdier, and n'ow'thumdering
like a light-battery at soine officer who had neg-,
like -         .i atte-y
b(etd the tonfort of his ien. Flints and scab-
bar I but he was a general; and yet, how well
Irenemb6r-jt, he' used 'to 'enjoy being called
iutihov my goodfelo-, came you, aMo-'
h n~edan 'by birti,yoitshay,  cato e ioi  a Mc
F  Tue of'war 'ino        chihood was
passed in a harem at Grahd Calirowhere I used
to light pipes for a p~iha of eer-so-;nany tails,
and practice with a curyed scimetar on horsm-
back~ in opanywitli a dozen otlier lads; des.,
tined like myself to recruit the 3anizaries body-
guard. Year after year, os I ignmember them,
was thus a dream of arms and horses, and cre-
monil;- but then came a change-the first dis-
tinct recollection I possess. Walking one day in
the pacha's garden, I met a-young CiTassian
slae,'ho had just bebnipurchased bf the chief
of hia household. Flints and scabbardi! but
she was beautiful.  ier .yes,were like stats, 1ier
teeth white as pearls, and the horse you ride,
major, was not more gracefully formed than
Zari was. Prom thai miomnentmy only thought
was how I could escape wth'her; 'and how or
where, I knew or careduo. But here Iam pros
lifeI  1  " 4 t  ' !" :. ~ "-
lmg oi  lyHirosr-
a   on, I beg df'you," said  le is.
"Just then the Frepch landed at Alexandria;
and s~on we heard'that tiey were coming up to
Cairo as a spring freshet goes down the Nile,
sweeping all that opposes. -Flinatad scA
ba   I' thought 1, nowi never, In fhe confu.
sioAn i hope to each smeminquiet spot, and there

live with Zara, who grew lovelier every ay.
One ev'mngi the pucha ordered-his entire hoyse-
hold to' take the field the next morning and
narch against the invaders; while Zr, poor
girl, was tol ito get ready to go 'up tlie river'
where ihe 01fellowhad a counting-house. Then
or never; so thatnight we started, hand m hand,
as light-hea-te a pait'of young verantss one
9ften sees. On we went, until the strs grew
dim, When we sat down upon the graisbeneath
a pain tree; and Zara, laying her he  l my
lap, went to sleep; A few moments, and I also
slumbered; but my dreams were soon distarbed
by a shriek! Flints aunscabbards! Ihaf4 seep
much human agony sine'; have heard many a
death-cry; huit never'.one th.t so hlle. my
blood., Zara, myloved Zara, lay  ead in y
arus and  eore me, wiping the blood fros his
reeking scimetar, stood the pacha. A diabolical
expression gleamed from his blood-red eyes-
and he said, with an unearthly tone' 'So ends
one; pourot  11 be harder unless you retrieQ
"  0o 1 r1' lot        t   , 1,,  - .,
your character agamist the enemy.'
"Ah, major, you can have but little idea h w
I felt. Despair seemed to have frozen every.
faculty, and I thought of nothing, save revenge.
lmnost'mecliakcallyI  mounted riyhorsa  hich
had been brought by my comrades-for apassirg
scout had seen us asleep, and informed the pa-,
cha.. Lost to everything, save the inteusp con-
sciousness of'the wrong 'I'adendured, I rode
on and, luckily, soon found an occasion to'wipe
off the score. By some good fortune we fell in
with a troop of French cavalry, and, with a wild
hurrah on either side, an engagement coin-
menced. The commander, a mere stripling like
myselfmade for the old pacha, and they' had it'
ehilt toilet. ' Th pacha had the best horse, and'.
was the coolest swordsman; but no sooner did
I see him disarm his antagonist, and then raiso'
his, glistOning scimetar, t1an I put the spur tb
my horse, and was at his side. Before his blade
whirled lathe air I, pierce uhimito the helit, and
he fell, bathed i blood, upon the sand, wrigthi
in a9ony. 'Remember ZUra ld'lshouted, as,
drawig a pistol from my saddle-boW.I. sot
him mortally. Then my feelingss overpowered
me,.and, falling fr om my horse, I lay iisensibl
by the side of the inanimate object ofanMy re-
venge.
"When I recovered Ifound myself in the tent
of the young lieutenant, whose life I ha 1 iaved'
- who anticipated my wants, and seemed to th1
that he could not be sufficiently grate  .

F

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.

evidently thought that I had interfered solely
with a desire to save him from the pacha's scim-
etar; nor could I explain to him-unable as I
was to converse with him-that I had but sought
to quench, an ardent thirst for revenge. My
comrades, however, who had witnessed the scene
of the morning, knew what had prompted me;
and when I entered Cairo with the French army,
one of them, disguised as a peasant, denounced
me as a renegade. Up to that moment I had
never thought of enlisting under the tricolor
flag; but I then saw it was my only alternative.
The next day I was enrolled among the Maie-
luke Guard, and Lieutenant Delmas-for such
was the name of my friend-introduced me to
General Bonaparte as 'his preserver.' .
"Fortunately, I was enabled to preserve the
life of the general himself within a week-for in
his eagerness to conciliate the remnant of the
Copts, a Christian race, that. had survived the
conquest of the first Califfs, lhe -lst his, way
among the ruins of Old Cairo, on foot and unat.
tended. I was wandering about, thinking 'of,_
Zara, when I encountered him; and, as. he did
not recognize me at first, lie drew his small,
sword-for Bonaparte was no coward; flints drid
scabbards! no. You may imagine that lie did
not regret an encouxiter with my scimetar; and
lucky was it that I came when I did, for in a
few moments we met a fanatic Moslem prophet,
who recognized the general, and rushed'at him
with his long knife, denouncing him in the name
of Mahemet. Stepping in, I was fortunate
enough tq arrange the assassin's matters in short
order, and thein-just in time, for his cries were
attracting a mob,-up came General Monge with
an escort. That night I received a sergeant's'
warrant, with a sword of honor, and from that
day I was French at heart.
The camp is over yonder hill, major; and I
will clip the wings of my story., Suffice it to' say"
that I followed the hero to France, and thefi half
over Egrope. Flints and scabbards ! those were
campaigns worth fighting in; often, as the gen-
eral rode along the line, he would stop and ask,
me if I remembered Cairo. Just as if I could
forget it! Frenchmen were promoted, and made
all sorts of queer-named things; but I wouldn't
have taken all the noble titles in the wprld for
one pf those kind remembrances, whed his clear,
soft voice would make my'heart ring with its
pleasing echoes.
'"Then he married the Austrian wonian, and,
things changed. Flints and scabbardsi how 1

hated to see him rigged up as an emperor, with
,a crowd of cowards around him; nor was I
sorry when he had to put on his gray coat and
little cocked-hat again. We went to Russia.
Ah! you know, major, what we suffered there.
Many dropped on the march and by the watch-
fires, the blood gushing from  their eyes and
mouth, till death relieved them; whilst others,
where they could approach a fire, thrust their
frozen and benumbed limbs among the ember%
and were burnt without being conscious of suffer-
ing, until they expired. We, Mamelukes, as you
may imagine, major, suffered cruelly; but a
remnant of us remained with the emperor until
he reached Wilna. Upwards of forty went to
Moscow, but when Napoleon sent for us, a few
hours after the horrible journey was ended, only
five presented themselves. And how we were
changedI The gay Oriental dress, so conspic.
uous upon occasions of ceremony, was gone-we
paraded in cloaks 'of untanned horse-skin, scorch-
ed with. the bivouac fires; our feet wrapped in
strips of'carpet,.and our smoke dried faces nearly
hid by long matted beards. But when, with a
sad yet sweet voice Napoleon thanked, us--ay,
and gave each of us the cross of honor -flints
agd scabbards i we would'have started back ibr
M!oscow if he bad but said the word.
"We were then drafted into a hussar re'gi
ment, with the rank of sergeants 'and double
pay; but we did not see swords crossed agan
until Waterloo. AhI! but we are near e=]R,
thank fortune, .and there is no need of talking
abont that fatal day. Late at night, whenau1
sought to escape, I overtook a general officer,
who was wounded, and had sank by.the road-
side,~awaiting his fate when the Prussians should
come. Flints and scabbards! it was General
Delmas! ,We had begun our campaign in eom-
pany, and I determined to end it with him" des-
pite his entreaties. Luckily there came a party of
English, who took us prisoners."
Just- then they were Ascending a hill; an4
from the other side caine the notes of the  artan
drum, and he stopped his narrative.
"Here we are at camp, major," said he,
"Excuse my talkativeness,; but it is not eften I
get a chance to speak of olI times."
"Nay, nay," replied Alexi   'I have been
much interested in your story. flut tell me-'
how came you here 1"
"General   elmas is now  Osmar tley-=,d.,
there is lis camp !"

25

r  %T
TIM


'Ti uxd xsn CAMP was -now before them,
pres~ntlng ~ scene of rare  cturesque iea14ty,
thiti'ai-ied Alexis, fanillr as he was with tfta
pomp of the tented fkeld. .The encmp menti of
the flussian army were' always. pitched with'
niitsma Imtiial preciion-scores of' small 'wall-'
ri-fbing arranged into streets, at the beads of
cYi were the more pretending bell-tents of the
ers ea~h in its relatiye rank; while,'behind
f; teig in majestic solitude, r 'e the 'mar-
qi   'fthe commanding generall. 'All were of
sj$  sswhi'te canvass; and even the row'of can-
tn-el, in the rear-line, with tIeii s king
were plaed in exact order. But the.
eni a     n) at which now met the eye ofeth  us-
sian  cerwas as picturesquely varied as those
tb  hi'Ahe hadW.been accustomed at home were
mathematically regular. Scattered around the
ouiki-ts'9f a large plin, where the-surrounding
hilro i srom its levelsurface, were some thirty
elustes of round, green tents,'each lot pitched,
wita any system; about a large, square mar-
qu6e of the same color. I some of'the spaces
between these -veriant villages,-for sich they
apperodto be,-iorses were pipketted,; in two
ofihei  were smallparks of bightfield artillery;
while in others were fires, where some were
eoking. Around the'door's of the tennis were
bolstered groups of cross-legged smokers;' while

in the central area'a party of horsemen werein.-
dulging' in intricate evolutions as they indulged
in some game. It 'was a 'scene that made, the.
young man's heart beat higl with enthusiasm,
as it recalled to his mind'the ancient Asiatic
hordes on their march to invadethe classic fields"
of Attica and Lacedemon-and he was carried
back, in imagination, to the days of Darius and
of Xerxes. No guards were posted, and the
Mameluke,-whose name it may be well to men-
tion, was Achmet,-piloted Alexis to the tent,
of the general, before which waved the Turkish
flag-a; crescent and' a stair upon a broad green
field. Here they dismounted, giving up their
horses to a staiwort Nubian, who stood atthe
door. 'The interior of the tent was'spacious and
mngnificent; inscriptions in gilt charateM or-
namenting'the many-colored silk hangings that
lined'the roof and'sides. Luxurious divans were
placed around the sides; and around the poles
in the centree, which supported the roof, were
fastened guss, scimetars, and yataghans, of su-
perior workmanship, highly ornamented.
'9tajor' Qriofn," announced is' guide; and
Osm r Bey, th80ole occupant 6f the tet re fo
they caniin, rose; and tadvancd   m t  mee tis
guest, saying:
"You are welcome to my quarters. It' i sl--
4pm tlkA thfare thus honored'

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.

Alexis thanked him for the compliment, and
teok an offered'seat, where he had an opportu-
nity to look at his host. He was a man of stal-
wort frame, whose attitude was naturally haugh-
ty, while his every gesture was marked by de-
cision and command. His expansive forehead
was deeply furrowed; and his pallid cheek was
attenuated; yet from beneath his heavy dark
eyebrows, bright gleaming eyes, somewhat con-
tracted by habitual mistrust, testified that time
alone was not chargeable with wrinkles or with
emaciation. A short, heavy black beard con-
cealed the resolute outline of the lower portion
of his face, but left exposed a massive neck, left
bare by his Albanian costume. The long, blue
tassel of his red cap hung down over his shoul-
der; his arms, covered only by a thin chemise,
came through the slashed sleeves of a gold-em-
broidered jacket, which thus hung as a pelisse,
disclosing a tight vest; a flowing white hilt was
tightly bound about the waist by a crimson sash;
and embroidered gaiters covered yellow suppers.
A more beautiful costume Was never worn by
Christian or by Infidel..
Pipes and coffee were brought by negro boys,
and, after a few moments' pause, Osmar, laying
down the amber mouth-piece of his snake-like
water-pipe, remarked:
"I suppose Achmet- has informed you, that
we are both soldiers of Franre by education-
indeed, your uniform is' the only one associated
in my recollection with defeat. But now,*'I
trust, the flags under which we fight wave in
harmony."
'So I trust, also," replied Alexis; "although
General Ipsilanti has endeavored to embroil the
two powers, in order to carry out some scheme
for restoring'the Greek nation."
"Foolish ideaI Neither will Capo distria,
with his 'IPhilomusians,' do more. Mahmoud is
well aware of their plots."
"By what chance," inquired Alexis, "is this
force congregated here ? Surely, no invasion is
feared?"
Osmar's brow darkened.
"No 1" he replied. "And yet there are hawks
whose wings require clipping, for they aspire to
the eagle's flight. This is rather a camp of dis-
cipline ; and I hope, in return for the pleasure of
your visit, to show you tha old warriors of the
crescent, ia, g-pany with the yet untried levies
who are being trained in the modern school of
warfare. I ordered a review at noon, and the
triumpets aniouice that the hour is near at hand.'

Excuse me until I can put on my regulation'uni-
form; for example, as you probably know, goes
a great way in introducing a reform."
Thus saying, the bey left our yopng hero, and
retired to make the contemplated change.
In a short time the bey re-appeared, wearing a
blue frock-coat and pantaloons of the Eurpean
military cut, excepting that a diamond star upon
his left breast was a substitute for epaules, as
an insignia of' rank. His head-dress was up-
changed, anda richly ornamented sabre hung by-
a gold-lace belt. Offering his arm to Alekis,
they went to the door of the tent, and the young
officer's heart'throbbed' with military pride as he
sa4 the area before him filled with troops, repos.
ing on their arms. A trumpet blast, fio'kon of
Osmar Bey's attendants, put all in motion, and'
soon they began to defile past.
A band of Bedouin cavalry led the van, mount-
ed on Arab horses,' whose silky coats almost re-
flected 'the brilliancy of their arms.  True dii-
ples of the Prophet, Alexis fancied thathe could'
trace on their -dark and bearded countenances the
religious enthusiasm that made them reckless as
to their fate. they passed without any regulari-
ty of position; and, when, in front of the bey,
began to fire their damascened guns,  which they
rapidly reloaded, uttering hoarse, guttural cries.
This is he favorite evolution of the Moslem
horsemen; and they are the better able to per-
form it by the high pommels of their sAddles,
'from which one cannot be thrown, and the ex-
treme breadth of their stirrup-irons. Their car-
touch-pouches and horse equipments, of sHver-
mounted scarlet morocco leather, whimsically
beautiful in shape, added to the quaintness of
their pageantry.
Next came the foreign legion of artillery, most-
ly composed of Poles, Italians and Frenchmen,
who had committed crimes of a nature to neces-
sitate their departure from home, and to deter
their return. They wore a semi-Oriental uni-
form, and looked like a band of desperadoes
sans peur, perhaps, but certainly not sans repro.e,
The infantry closed the column, of which they
composed the greater portion, and were the most
complete organization in the "new school" of
the Turkish army. Their uniform was of coarse
bue cloth, of the 'European pattern, with a red
felt cap, and their equipments were from Eng-
land'; but to the practised eye of Alexis they pre-
sented a worry spectacle. Some carried their bay-
onets in the scabbard, at the right side; some
on the left; some on their muskets; nor were

CHAPTER V.'

BHear themingled hum
Of myrlada up the mountAin core;
The horns' trarp a and tinglin clnk,
Whersehiefa, reviewed thpir vassalrank,
And charger's shrilling-negh;
And mecttht shifing lines advance,'
Whie frequent flashed, from shieldand
the sun's reflected ray."


THLE RHIUSIAN GUARDSNAN.
th rest' of their equipments put on in, better like young trees before the south breeze. Vaster,,
ofdr.                                      faster now their steps were inteningled; now
"There must be a beginning," remarked Os- they advanced, retired, passed here and there,-
mai- Bey, asthe last platoon passed. "Now  and then closed with what has been styled the"
walk into the tent again, and let'4us dine."  intensity of motion-the soul of passion starting
A repast was served somewhat after the French though every sense, and quivering in every
style ; after vhich Alexis endeavored to lead the limb. They ceasedI
conversation' to the past, that his host might re-  Then, with a low reverence, they wrapped
late some particulars of his eventful career. But, themselves up in their cloaks, and left the tent,
inst ad of so doing, Osmar sought to draw from  amid loud cries of" Good 1" "Well done." The
his guest the antecedents of his career, and of the officers then began to retire; and Alexis, looking
two the elder was the most successful. No one, at his watch, found that he would hardly have
Aexis tiought-not even his grandfather-had time, to reach home before dark,
ever taken such an interest in his fortunes, nd  "I must go," said he; "but I really dislike'
yd h feltthat the questioner had some righitto to leave a scene where there is so much novelty
inkterrogate him. After a while the various offi. and kindness."
cers began to call in, and each was formally pre-  "Nay, if you must go, wait a few moments,
seated to Major Orloff, who now had many ques- and I will accompany you."
tions to answer about the details of the Russian  This announcement gave Alexis great pleas-
service. Pipes and- coffee were handed round; .ure, for somehow he had become deeply inter-
and then,, after a few remarks in Arabic, Osmar ested in his' host, nor could he but think that lie
Bey led his guest to the divan, at the head of the had met with him before. Those.eyes were not
tent, saying:  ' Ito be mistaken.
Dancing is the great amusement of our    In a short time horses were brought to the door
camp-lifb, and we always have a party of Almys of the tent, and.Osmar Bey re-appeared,-dressed
with us. Sit down,.and tell me how you think in the plainest manner.
they compare with the ballet-troupes of St. Pe-  "I do not wish to undergo the ceremony of,
tersburg."                                 visiting the city in state," said he, laughingly;
All the guests were now seated, and Osmar "besides, some rasclly Greek m ght choose to'
Bey lapped his hands. Pour musicians imme- begin the contest, hereabouts, by giving me a
diately entered, seating themselves cross-legged taste of his knife."
near the door of the tent, and commenced play-  "It is your society, not your uniforin, that
ing lively tune-their instruments were two pleases me," said Alexis, in a laughing tone;
large drums, covered with goat-skin; a viol, and and, bidding good-by to the few officers remain.
brass castanets; nor was the music characterised ingin head-quarters, they rode off.'
by harmony. Again the curtain, that served 'as  Again did the young man endeavor to elicit
a door, was drawn to one side, and three young from Osmar some incidents of his early adven-
girls cante bounding into the centre of the tent, tures ; but he was unsuccessful, and to have been
where they stood, for an instant, motionless, pointed in his questioning would have been rude.
then, folding their arms, bgwed to the ground. They rode faster than Alexis had come in the
Their costume was brilliant and original-neck- morning, and had nearly reached Smyrna at
laces of small, gold coins entwining with their sunset.
raven hair; velvet jackets, disclosing their sym- "You' will come to-the consulate ?"
metrical fqrms; and heavy circlets of gold add- "Excuse me, major; I have not as yet been
ing to the beauty of their tiny hands and feet. into society here, and rather prefer not going.
One-th' oldest-was imperious in her manner, Associated as I am with Mahomedans, it is not
with a burning blackeye; while the others were very agreeable to hear their and my motives
rendered more beautiful by the celestial light questioned-so you must let me leave you at
that their blue eyes, fringed with dark lashes, yonder fountain."
thre* over their features. They danced !-first  "Nay, sir, but I know my grandfather-would
with a serene, voluptuous languor; but, by do- be delighted to see you, and to thank you for
grees, theig countenances and movements*became your- hospitable kindness to me-a stranger."
atimdted; their arms and feet appeared to vibrate  "Do we not belong to the great military fam-
with'movemnent ; and they were swayed in unison ily? Surely I, as your father, have a better- right

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.              29

to entertain you than your grandfather ?" And
as the bey said this there was a peculiar expres-
sion about his eyes that Alexis never forgot, al-
though many years passed away before he could
interpret it.
" Well, I hope that the fortune of war will
never lead' the son to combat the father."
"Why'- not?  If a father violates his sacred
obligations, what should withhold the son's
hand? But stop-I misunderstood you I In
our case, major, I hope the intimacy of to-day
may ever brighten. And, as here we, are at the
fountain, adieu. Promise to visit me again."
'They shook hands cordially; and, having
pledged himself that he would soon ride out
again, they separated. In a few moments more,
Alexis was in the court-yard of the consulate,
and gave up his horse to an attendant, who had
ridden with them from camp. His grandfather
met him at the door and welcomed him 'iome;
while old Katina who was in his chamber, when
he went up, arranging the curtains, exclaimed:
" Why, my young master, how the ride has
improved your looks. You have as much color
as your father had,.to-night."
," My fatherI"
"Bless me, I forgot;" and the old lady hob-
bled. down stairs, apparently very much dis-
gusted with herself for her indiscreet remark.
"Why this mystery ?" said Alexis to himself,
as lie took off his uniform. "But, never mind,
I have a kind grandfather and a noble father-in-
arms. Yet I should like to know, and-I will
know."'
Having arrh'ed at this philosophical axiom,
lie concluded his toilette, and went down into'
the dining-room, where his ride was made mani-
fest by the enormity of his appetite. The old

gentleman was very inquisitive; but appeared
sorry when he learned how many troops Osniar
Bey had collected.
"Depend upon it," said he, "there is some
trouble brewing, and I fear that our Greek
friends will suffer for their desire to re-establish
the old Hellenic empire. Every act of their lead-
ers but ,serves to awake the fanaticism of the
Turks, which, when once , aroused, can only be
quenched in blood."
The door opened, and in walked Monsieur
Lavalette, obsequious as ever, carrying two large
account books, which lie laid upon the table.
"I cannot show these books to your grandson
this evening, Mr. Consul," he said, with a fawn-
ing smile, "for Manasseh is in the city, and has
sent for us; but his superior knowledge of ae-
counts will enable him to find what you seek."
"Sent for us !" exclaimed the consul. "Once
he used to come cringing here, and wish to loan
me money; but now he has involved me some-
what in his operations, I have to go to him."
" Manasseh-Mnasseh,"   repeated  Alexis.
"Where have I heard that name ?"'
"You saved. his life, major," replied Laya-
lette, "and now he wishes to save your grand-
father's credit."
"Save my credit ! Thank heaven, he cannot
weaken or save it; and to-night I hope to break
from his usurious clutches. As to his thanking
you, Alexis, perhaps lie fears you will bring a
charge against him-ha ! ha ! But if we must
go, Monsieur Lavalette, let us star at once.
After your ride, young man, you must be fa-
tigued-so good night."
In a few moments Alexis heard the court-yard
gate close.


OAPTER *.
O treeberou.slght,
Thou end'st thy ready veU to every treason
And teeming mnkhiefs thrive beneath thy skadei
MoxtrditT and midnight!l' Lovely every-' tars, in a clear cerulean sky, bathing all things
whee; but especially in a lai-ge city, where they beautiful in a mellow lighp, while charitableshad-
contrast strongly with sun-glare and buistle of ows concealed many a dark nook.
day.- -In the country " although the 'yeoman's  Lured by the beauty'of the scene, and yielding
voice does not scho a ie 'drives his team aleld; to a melancholy influence that had stolen over
or the- bees hum their ps'an to iridustry, or the him, Alexis remained seated at the bay window
birds make the air helodious, there is no un- overlooking the' bay, unmindful of the lateness
etul quiet-nature is ever'heard, at midnight as of the hour. Few, except those who have enjoy-
at toon,:in the murrirng of'the wind, the rust- ed the delicious climate of Smyrna,,can coynpro-
ling of thele!aves" and the'dreamy singing -of the hend the undimmed beauty, of such a night, when
brooks. But in the city, wihere the battle of life the very elenients appear to slumber, and 'the
is, so nceasmgly waged from early inrn until most agitated mid can enjoy a melancholy re-
late in the evening, there is a midnight hbur of pose of thought. Such was the case. with Alex-
solemn quiet. This contrast is more especially is, and yit a melancholy presentiment disturbed
marked in an Oriental city, like Smyrna, where his, tranquil happiness-a vague, hateful con-
every sound is hushed by ten o'clock. The cries sciousness of danger and of disappointnent-a
of the muezzins, inviting the faithful to evening knowledge that the glorious 'stars which thronged
devotion, are no longer heard; the tattoo beat the azure vault above were not more thickly
of the druin no longer warns straggling soldiers strewn than were the cares across life's pathway.
to their barrack-beds; the sound of the viol is pot  Growing restless, and wondering, too, why his
heard at the coffee-houses ; and even the songs grandfather had not returned, Alexis put on his
of mothers, hushing their babes to sleep, are cap and started out. 'It ivas not his intention to
themselves stilled.  Watchers, weary of the have gone out of sight of the consulate ; but he
night, may be astir within doors, but quiet reigns walked slowly on -until the darkness around his
without, only broken by the cool plashings of a path made him aware that he was in the dwelling
fountain, or the sea-breeze playing among the of the dead, which, in Samyrna, joins the busy
minarets of some sepulchral-looking mosque. haunts of the living. On either side rdse thick
And on the evening of which we write, the full- groves of cypress-trees, those waveless emblems
orbed moon sat enthroned among her retinue of of mortality; while beneath 'were equally inter-

TAR A88)IN GV#4DSA$

*INOb-Ifore r 9f jorp, py) ,cold upsrble
qtrangely distinct in, tlye surgqnding. drkpess,
like a phantom, keeping wateh. Dy er   ow
slu ering aes,
Turging,A6pis sa y tayoindividgsals, who sp
peared to be watching his inognients-for they
halte when gey received that he had stopped.
Cou4li i be that hiy were following him 7,Nat-,
urally 14rave, beneverthele4, feltaomewhat ney-
yous, for he waA entirelyunarmed ;,hut, in.order
to, satisfy himself as to their intentions, he walked
slowly onward,, To his excessive annoyance a
glance over his shoulder ocejtsionally ,showed
that his atten'dapts maintained the sane, distance,
s when he first noted theirpraence. This was
unendurable, and he stoppedguddenly-so did
they-and when, determined to ascertain wheth-
er they were purposely dogging his steps, he
turned around. and retraced lis path, the figures
steadily retreatedIas he aclvanced-strong pre-
sumptive evidence of an alixiety on their part to
avoid him as pertinaciously as wAs he desirous
of getting rid of, them.
But the moment he emerged from the, hallow-,
ed precincts of the burial-gropnd, the retreat was
stopped; and while he was endeavoring to inake
out what sort, of clhaacters were waiting for
him, he. was seized by fequ others, who came
from some hiding-place. Resistance was impos-
sible, and cre he could recover frorn his amaze-
ment, he found himself, hangtiffed and gagged,
hurried rapidly 9ver the uneven pavement. In
a short tinie the plash of water met his ear, and
then he saw that they had reached the quay..
Here he ivas unceremoniously lifted into a ship's
boat, and made to sit inthe strn, where two men
held him fast. It is needles ,to say that he was
indignant at this brutal treatment, for which he
could assign no reason at all sufficient po justify,
his detention. He was not aware that he had
uttered a word against the government; and had
lhe been so ind hercet, they surely would not dare
to otrage Rus-sia by thus kidnapping an inmate,
of the consulate, who was iu the, emperor's ser-
vice. .
Who his captp*rs were ho could not well ascer-
tain-for their forms were shrouded h large
cloaks, while handkerchiefs muffled their faces.
He waspositive, however, tht one 9f them was,
a mulatto; and this but added to thei.;yst-y of
his position-for he did no , remember have
seen eneof tfe doomed, mco since his arrival.
Four other nen were in h e' boat, nd  lexis
remarked that they conversed in "lingueq,/[rn

Sci," aPigtpre,o(Freeh and of ItAitqfpken
is the.Leyant, bvariners pf all the bogdeing.
countries. As hour pased,-to the prisoier it
seemed an age,-when an Arab, carrying a lag-
tern,  me. f;9m among, the bliildings, t the
boat. He inquired,.ii Ita ian,for the captain.
"He went 9n bo4rd in.afisian's boat that
started about tyo heurs ago," replied the mi
latto. "Tracking game is. not his favorite pr-
suit, and he said that he would go on board to
get the anchor tripped and have the sails loosen-
ed. But where's the consignee I"
"The old gentleman sent m i h this letter,
telling me to give it to the captain, and to sAy
that he, wished him to set sail at once."
"-Give me the lette-, then, and off we'll gp."
Taking the package, and putting it in his bat,
he gave orders to have the boat cast off. TheA,
resuming his seat by the side of Alexis, hp tqok
the tiller and the bet shot out into the broad
bay. They passed so .near. the "Nicolai " that
Alexis could hear the measured tread of the sen-
tries on deck; but it was impossible for him to
make the lesst movement. A few. moments
more, it was evident that the boat was making
towards a beautiful lugger, that. Bat upon the
water like a sea-bird at rest, with her huge wing.
like sails hangig lose, as if waiting to sweep.
away in quest of prey. S§he had two tall mqsts,
with long-pointed yar4s, upon which clouds of
canvass could be spread ; while a small mizen-
mast carried a small sail, used to keep her jam-
med 'up to the wind whedclose-hauled. Every-
thing about her appeared to, be in theqgest order;
and 'as her outline, with its tracery of rigging
was visible'in the mqonllght, Alexis thought her
the most beautiful specirpen of marine architec-
turq he had ever, seen.
"Vho comes ?" hailed a gruff voice from the,
forecastle.
"The 'Dolphin,' cried the. mulatto. ," Call
the captain." , And the boat, grated against the
side of the luggpr. ,A (all form appeared at the,
gangway, and with himecame a fernp, sppp4d
i a clogk.
"All well?"
."Ay, ay, captain,' said themulatto; "hereis
your passenger, with his apns rather too tightly
belayed for his own comfort, and a stopper in his,
mouth-orders, though."
"JBut Signor Nanasseh ?"
"h-he is a letterfrom him," Andspr7ng.
ing onboard he handpd.the.packaP to1; eo-
mander.

b


TIME RUSSIAN GItDSMN

inyitherndt'Unhere'eithe k''asledTthe fe-
malife,'edent'y ousewhit disappointedd; 'and'
Alexis thniught 'thahe had hedrithe y6ke be
14 hc captain's repY' was not audible t0 those
in &amp;4e boit; but he offered his airm hisis orM-
jiuidon, indther wst dowbithe conpanionvay.I
It a fe* inonidnts het re'trned0to tbe gangway,
saTfiiMn ratliei a veed tone
tiring yoir prisoner On b6ard, Cito."
Alexis was lifted frdin the boat as if he had
been a* child; and, s ho Was placed on the lug-
ger's deck,'thie captain, rising his cap, saluted
"You are a soldier, fIr"'sid he, "-and must ,
knowthat dty is not alieajs aru-reable. I have
orders te 'convey you to"Athens, and 'shall carry
you there. On our .arrival, a sealed- Package,
now in my haids, will infti r  you all about the
why and wherdfore of thif; and I"hope that-
dpart foni the line of doiyZyou  will find your
sojourn, on board of the 'Dishin' agreeable.
The old veteran with you will attenA d'ou in your'
cabin, where you 'must consider yourself a pris-
oner until to'-morrow.' until then, adieu."
'There was a frankness anid cordiality about
these 'remarks that"pleased Alexis'although he
felt indignant at the'ouirage committed in thus
entrapping him-neither cald he comprehend
the motivee for sending 'hii to Greece, or the au-
thority'under which he was sent. Thd mulatto,
however, taking him by'the arm, led himto the
companion-way, and'there was no alternative but
to descend with as god a grace as possible. He
was shown into a beatitiful little cabin, furnished
with great elegance, and brightly lighted by' a
hanging lamp. 'Cato remained'ai the door; but
his companion followed Alexis'in, and, when the
door was closed, threw off his cloak and muffler.
It was Achmet, the Mameluke!'
"Fortune of war," said the old trooper. "The
duty has not been a' pleasmint one; but, as the
captain said just now, 'oders must be obeyed.'
Now,imajor, I am bid to'elease you from those
outrageous ropes if you will but promise me that
you will not attempt to escape to-night."
Really siffer-ing froi th6 tightness of" the cor-
dage that bound Iis handi,-and from the gag
that distended his mouth,! Alexis bowed assent.
Indeed, curiosity was fast ustrping every other
sentiment, and the mysteiy of Nis position ap-
peare' to increase. The honest soldier 1ot no
time in ieleitiighim'bhimtshook ls head at the
volley of questions:

"Whee ate we I Why am* hire ?2     n
youwere at the caipy I Surely, OsmarBey'has
n6 bonti-iied this'"
Ahmajor, ask me no questions tonight"
Iuideed, I cannot understand matter 'riys-elf.
But take iome refieshment."
There wa4 a'haidsome, cold collation on6 the'
table, elegantly served, with rich crystal and, ele-
gant silver ware. For a moment Alexis hesi-
tated ; but the cola air had give'i him a famous
appetite, and he thought that he might make the
best of his position. A small state-room, open-
ing from the cabin, was pointed out by Achmet,
who served him with great attention, and really
appeared sad as he Wished him:
91Good night, ana pleasant dreams."
Alas!. the dreams were confusoid enough; and
when, on waking, Alexis knew'by the rushing
sound of waters on the side of the vessel, against
whibhihis berth rested, that the 1-telucca was un-.
derweigh. Loking around the' state-room, he
was astonished to see his own trunks, that had
been placed there during "his sleep, and, rising,'
he dressed himself in his undress-unifoim, de-
termined to ascertain by what authority he had'
been thus carried off. The door, he observed,
wa  lightly ajar, and when his toilette was"
completed, he went out, and ascended 'the'com-
panion-way.
There was nothing in' sight but blue sky and
blue water. The wind was fair, swelling the
towering sails'of the felucca, that bounded on-
vard, parting the wave before her, and scattering
the spray around. Never had Alexis seen such,
a beautiful craft, for everything was kept neatly,
scrubbed or. painted; and the our brassguns
on either side shone like mirrors. There was a
'flag displayed from the gaff of' the small mizen-
mAast; but the colors were inot those of any Eu-
ropean power then in existence, although there
was nothing piratical in the large blue 'cross,
floating on a white field. While he waS thus'
gazing around, a lady emerged from a stern com-'
panion-way; nor had'she fairly stepped upon the
deck before he recognized ElissalI Advancing to-:
wards her he was rejoiced to see that she recog-
nized him.
"Thanks at last !" she said, in a low, sweet,
tone, "for the service you rendered us ;"'and sh e
held-out her hand.
Alexis, encouraged -by this kind. receptionf,
took the proffered hand, and in his conxilfsion
stamniered oat something about'"uins eit d
leasure..

Sqme," she replied, "letus,sit dowp,.for it
is not very easy tokeep.on  feet 's ."
The young officer toOk a peat by her side,
and eagerly gazed upon her, as if to ascertain
whether lie had, pictured her rightly. Nor was
he mappouted. Eissawas one of those beau.
tiful creatures occasionally met with, who realize
those creations of loveliness with which youth-
ful imagination peoples fairy-land. Her classic
face was worthy of a sculptor's study, while her
clear hazel eyes, pure forehead and luxuriant
hair, were combined in the effect produced by
her loveliness. The expression of her counte-
nance varied with every emotion, and her voice
was soothing as the night-wind vibrating through
a vineyard. She wore a Greek dress, 'alhodgh'
the boddice was fitted to her graceful figure, in-
stead of flowing loosely. Richly'embroidered
slippers, covering only the front of the foot,
showed to full advantage her delicately-turned
ankles, visible through stockings of gosime,r-like
netted silk; while the black silk Maltese veil
shad4 but.qid not conceal, the delicate contgur
of her head.
The gallant exploit of Alexis, with his subse-
quent illness, naturally formed the introductory
topicof conversatio', and it was not long'before
there was a cordial communication between them.
There is no place like a deck for breaking down
the, conventional barriers raised by society; nor
hA   Alexis evqr been so cordially received.
BEissa's voice trembled' with genine emotion
as she thanked him again and again; while her
compmion felt that he had not over-valued her
in his thoughts and his dreams,
A step was heard ascending the companion-way,,
and the captain came on deck. Alexis, who had
not forgotten his wrongs and his position' sprang
to his feet, and glanced a look of haughty
defiance.
"ajor Orloff," said the captain, "I am hap-
py to see you on deck, and tp find that you have
introduced yourself ,to Madenoiselle Elissa.",
"Nay, sir;" timidly interrupted the blusliing
girl, "this is the gallant officer of whom I spoke,
yesterday-he who risked his life to save
uncle."        '-
"Captain," asked Alexis, "you are undoubt-
ely a gentldman. Why was I abducted from
my grandfather's residence to .be thus carried
off?-for if I was not.in the consulate, my bag-I
gage was% taken fron there. I have a right,air,
to demand an imnpediate explanation.".
"Sofar 4I am coicornAmed, muAjor," replied the

captain, "you received .st night ljhe expla-
nation that I can give. like yourselfsir Ihold
a conmmsion,-having the honor to be a lieuten
ant in the British navy, although I now am ou
furlough, commanding this felucca. I introduce
myself toyou as Captaig Maxpell. Po no, I
beg' of you      , make my duty unpleasant to my-
self, or disagreeable to my involuntary passen-
ger."
"But what is this vessel ?"
"The 'Dolphin,'-a yacht, belonging to an
eecentric English peer (with whom I was at
Harrow School), and now a volunteer in the
Greek cause. The struggle is for independence;
nor popmld any service be more congenial to my
ledlings than was this command, until I was or-
dered to arrest, clandestinely, an officer and a
gentleman,."
"Nay, nay," exclairpeil Alexis,,who saw that
Elissawas anxiously 1eatching the conversation.
"All is air in wa; and   suppose there is some
reason for all this. At any rate, the company of
this young lady, whom I have muc desired, to
meet, compensates me for the absence from
Smyrna, and I feel positive, sir, that you will
not see me dealtgithwrongly."
The tw9 young men thenshook hands cordial-
ly, and Alexis resumed his seat by Elissa, while
the captain' went forward, where he was soon en-
gaged with Cato, the mulatto mate, in disciplin-
ing a portion of the crew. No man-of-war's ipen
could ha&amp;ve handled the guns with more alacrity,
or wielded their cutlasses with more deterity
But the lovers cared little for what was pass-
ing around them, as they sat together, chgry of
wbrds but prodigal in glances. 'Alexishad not
declared his passion, ytlissa felt conscious
that she was his heart s idbl-Elissa ha not ac
knowleiged her concealed affection,.yet Alis
kimew that he had empire over her e cry thought.
Happiest period of love-perhaps the only hap-
py one! Like the'maiden of the fairy romance
lovers too often destroy the Potency of their spell'
when they openI It to discover in what characters
it is written. They spoke not of the pa'st; ihey'
thought not of the fuiui-e; lit' they were'comntn
with -the present. bn their igiorande was' its
happinss-there was none of time anxi'et that i
the fever of hope;' no fears, ford 'there was'no
calculation; no selfishness, for notljing was asked
for; no; disappointmenit, for nohiug was ep'ect-
ed. It was like the' deep, quiet 'enjoyent of'
basking in the bright' sunshine, without thir6ii.
of either how the glad warmth would ipen  e'


Sltt          'hid atihef'tIlp dar clouds Jinthe syllable in replyt6arlous rerarks, inteMid'd to
I    gito forebdes fsta.                   launch a ebnveirstion. TheaIts 'of the young
-ekfasl' idiieat dablin-bdaOYn'd Ciqi- people reie too full for words ;nor did Alekis,
n&amp; W coming 'eft thy'all went-int the --usually so -ebiervant,-even notice the coat of
arbis emablamoned upon every article upon the fa.
eiythin&amp; Was eerv&amp;   it'1 great thste; but ble, signifieadt as' as the metto, "Cn  Br-
the captain could only 6btinmord thAt ' a mono-  ok."  ' '

14'*

"Spirit of freedom! en-O, pus'o not Ii thy bight
Tin every un4e is won. to-worship in thy ht
Sj#et on thy glorioir way, and wake the laee#1njtaints;
S"1'bllionsj  watchingfortWy iays and Ifteto theetheir MAIls
till from every vale, and whera the mountains rise,'
VU  se6"11 lhlf f ofm6er4aShan kinar tothWikeh!"
LiBRT    l How rany a goodly amosy has tinder'Ypsilanti, reached Srna, if onsedthou-
been' planned by patriotic heas, to go in quest sands of Greek hearts, and, they sent the glad-
if that "g1dienflece'" ofmankind' yet 'how  som tidings 1'nrth with i summons for the dole-
few-how very fdw-~lhae ben fairly launched gates of alI Ao wished to aid 'in the political
upon the oean of national eistenee'? In Greece, 'regeneratioh Wf Heilas, to meet in council. roi
t  hreof we write, it was almost ia- island to island the newssped on, like Clain Al-
possible to rear the framework of a ship of'state, pine's fiery across, awakening high hopes' and
and to.develop the rPsources of a long-enslaved enlisting siisutarms' Motheis'huggedi their babe'
land  ,Could her trnggling, sons but have had closer totheir breasts; yet, with a' spirit i*orihy
an 'bpjpgrtuIty to set their vessel afloat, trim her of their a des  cast their jewels, inot
ballast, obtain proper charts, and discipline her melting-pot,that the delegate of their island might'
offlies and creliv to their new duties,,the erescent carry ingdts of gold with him to Smyrna, for the
would'on    ve beenipulede down fromn the revolutionary fund. The men, from the gry-
sumi of the Acropolis. but ere the new na- haired verin, who had fought against Venice,
tional cft ould b   fi'lmodelled   a thic  to the boy' ihoie gun had killed biit a few birds,
cloud of lurid devastation came sweeping down, awoke as if from a trince. Conscious of their
the rhopoptid, blindinthe gallant Greeks, whio right, of their strength, and of the degrading
had dared to think of freedom,, with, sating servility of.their situation, they began 'to' .ist
lightning, and soakn6 their plains jnthe blood bullets. With n insatiate thirst for reveii for
of thir butchered families  Trying was their the wlongs endured so.ldong, they only waited,
s'rlI at that crisis of the redemption of their for the signalto re-esibhish Greee as it was
clasrieYther-land, nor did the bright light of in- bounded in ihe days of:Constantine.' ,Te mem-
dependee gleam ihrough the slleie of conflict ory of their ifustrious sires'invited the n to the
unti Americnand Engishmen caem to the res- .fray, thawas tp disenthrail sacied "soil, ,td re-'
cup.   ot ony diAO tie 'Anio saxon race con- consecrate hallowed ground. shadowy cohori'
sider tiat they ored -a debt of gratitude to the of warriors, and sages' ad artists, comii  ini
land, whose languageand whose literature th  visions from the .glo-iou  past, citedd ,thein
had ever cherishednut theyffelt it a dut to ro- exterininate the barbarous Mosfeins, tien tread-
tecteakness and tii ove p t   utio  Ltide- ing with the' iron heel' of 'the opressorg over
;44giohkI         recess, and the file ,aids f'Atic
LAnight Tner                                                    liin, elphi'bdretl-ed
W* h'e h nwas of ihfi reolt of'tlr  Albd "a nis, The night on'Wrich A'lexis iL4 is'abducetedmas

4

mH nuL USAAMAN

that o whih the -delegates met for the first ime.
It was an important step, and each on' left his
temporary abode, with the 'conscionieess 'that a'
halter wAs aroundhis neck, for they had nothing
to hope fr6m their desyotic taasters, who only tol-
erated their very religion for the sake of exacting.
money from its votaries., Bidding farewell' to
their friends, they threadedtheir way to the'place
of rendezvous, that was beyond the bazaars, in
an unfre~uented portion of the city. Tottering
buildings projected over the muddy paveidnts;
dismantled chimney -'tops, nodding overhead,
seemed hesitating when- to fall;,the lower win-
dows wre guarded with rusty iron bars, that
timehad longgnawed atwith hiacorroding tooth;
nor was a single repulsive Ihteament of poverty'
or filth wanting.
Yet, to 'the conspirators, the pathway was as
it strewn with'rokes, a each hitriied to the hp'-
pointed' hoise. a    1 ell-known locliy -oi ''l
who had been there before. Knocking, theyI
were ushered into a "small room, alhnost desti-
tute 'of furniture, -and dimly lighted by a 'burni-I
ing rag, that floated on a cork in a pan filled
with oil. Here, one of the ringleaders, disguised
as an old crone, assured himself that the new I
comer was one of the initiated, and then, tduch-
ing a spring, swnng a large corner-cupboard -out
from where it *as, apparently, a fixture. Steps
were disclosed ; and, on descending thom, a new
barrier presented itself in a heavily-ironed door, r
opened upon a peculiar knock. On again, though
a vaulted passage, another door was reached;
and, on crossing its portal, a novel sight presented t
itself.                                     a
It was a subterranean hall; its roof supported t
by scores'of w hite marble columns-one of those a
Byzantine reservoirs that remain as monumtids A
of their architectural skill, and of their desire to A
store for use that pure clement, the source of all p
life. But, in some of the old wars, the arches of b
its suplying aqueduct had been destroyed, and
its very existence forgotten, until a Greek, in c'
digging a well, had discovered its arched ex- a
pane. Jealottsly guarding his secret, except.to .1
the principal men of his race; the old cistern was
thenceforth used as a. hiding-place for oppressed' ti
Greeks, and the entrance, that we have described, M
built. It was the very place for the delegates to' si
assemble in council-nor had pains been spared
in fitting it up A long table, with benches on eli
either side, was placed in the centre, while above or
an arm-chair, at 'one end of it, hung the cross-
banner of the Morea.                        fr

'he delegates, as they entered, separatediiito
little groups, earnestig disessinig the hop esof
attaining their object. Some time was thus passed,
and then a loud, iear voice echoed along 'the
vaulted wall
"Sons 'of Gieece'!' assemble at the council-
board 1"
It was 'Mavrocordato.' He had ben earnestly
invited t'o head the' movement, and now stood
at the-e'd of the tjlcle, a type of his nation.
His Albanian dress , w'ith its hanging sleeves, its
flowing white kir'ts, ud rich embroidery, gave
that winning dignity to, hi form With which' the
classics clothe his' hone, His 'xpressi  Was
tiat of mingled gentlenes and firmness; and
*hen he began to speak there was a quiet sel.
possession in his demeanor showing that ihe had
well-weighed his subject. 'Then, as he dwelt on
the oppre'ssiodnfinder hsie' theylabored, t}e play
6f his countenancd answered faithfully o thaiof
his emotions, while his impassioned gestures aid-
ed him in interptfetirg his feelings.   oused, he
became more animated; his dark lustqoius eye
emitted a dazzling radiacd; and, as .h steadily
advanced towards the object he desired to at-
tain, he carried 'ill presnt with him as by an
irresistible attraction. All surrendered, without
discretion, to the lofty dictates of 'Iis Wili' and
when he sat down, having asked, 'in c6ncusion,
'Shall not we strike--and striji home?" all
esponded,'Ris with one'voice':
"Ay, strike-ard ltrike home!"
Then others spoi.' Botzariis responded for
he hativis of' Missolonghi; Miaulis guaranteed
masritime force from the'islands; and Coloco-
roni, a man of hercn'ean builA ad  baniit-like
tire, vouched for the Arcadian  mountaineers .
A  plan of organization was agreed upon, and
Mavrocordato received a unanimous vote foi
resident. The office of treasurer was iext to
e filled.
"I propose," said Odysseus, a, young sulibte
hieftain, "6Monsieur Lavalette.  although not
native'Greek, he has proved himself 'a irue
over of our'oppressed land."
"it may be ; but I think . we' should be' cau-
ous," growled old Navrmeai, the b4y of
[aiua, Whose pistols 'were richly mounted with
l'rer. '
"And 'I,'' eclained Boizaris, "oppose his
ection. Why not wait ah4 find if there is not
ne in our own ranks who is qualified ?"
4' Gentlemen !" exclaimed Lavalete, coming
-on behind a column to the'table. Had a b6mb

1
35

c #AJ16 4-


f4let through the roof of the cistern it would,
pot have   reduced more confusion-weapons
rere drawn, and i was ,ome, moments before
Ayst  s nd his "friends could procure ahear-I
ing forthe Frenchian. At last 'order was re-I
Atored, and h9 resumed hisremarks, speaking in,
choice Rlonaic:
"Ceatlemen, I am no spy-no traitor ! Iwas
invited to attend here bj Odysseus ; ad Prince
lavrocordato can aiso iear witness to ray exer-
i-ons sin ringing' about this full representational
They know, too, that   can have wealth at myI
c~iniaed. They know that I understand the
keeping of accounts. They know, equally well,
that I sought this post, because I wished to serve
Greece. And now, I hearit said, 'Be cautious'
-  such the sentiment of this assembly? I, brav-
in# all dangers, could aid in convening you here,
aid now pm told that ,I. anM not worthy to s e
ou.    ou prefer  Greek. We, I submit. I
would not inar your enterprise, and bar the slug-
gish current of your operations. Nay, when you
need my services you have but to command
then. Until then, farewell."  And drawing his
cloak around him with a theatrical air, the indig-
nant Frenchman turne- from the table as if to
leave.
"Stay !" said Botzaris, advancing towards
tavalette, with a flushed 'countenance and an
opposing gesture. "I regret that our first-meet-
ing has hoen sullied by the presence of'a traitor;
but, thank Heaven! the traitor is not a Greek !"
" What means this ?" asked Mavrocordato.
The whole assemblage listened with eager
suspicio n, and Lavalette felt, a faint dizziness
cross his brain. But, in a moment, desperation
steeled his heart, and he sought to fortify his
trembling limbs as he asked, with a look of in.
jured pride:
"What means this, I too ask ? Does the pali-
'kar, from ihe Morea, accuse me of treachery I-
me, a poor accountant, who learned when a child,
to love liberty in France !"
"Friends," said lotzaris, ".be not deceived
with. his soft voice, or his blad smile-"
"Yet," interrupted Odysseus, " we want to
hear your accusation 1,
"You shall hdar it! Tell me, Lavalette, you,
who are, to use your own wo ids, 'a poor ac-
countant,' whence came, the moneyfor your
purchase of .the Zalanti estate, a$ Scio. You
must have a large6 salai to be enabled to expend
thirty thousand di-chms for a country-o"se."
"It w.s saved-economically saved," dog-

gey replied Lavalette, "-Besides, my niee
recQived a legacy from.France."
"And it is your niece who Pas hired the  o,.
phin' lugger until Lord Byron returns, from
England  . It is your niece who receives pack-
ages fromthebey, who occupies the -ciot gar-
rison?'"
"Nay,-it is-it is-
"Is who 1" interrupted the excited Greek.
"Manassqh," replied Lavalette-who qnyeav-
ored as he spoke to look his accuser full in the.
face; but his eyes quailed before :the searching
glance that met them.
"And who is thi Manasseh?    No Israelite,
I,am informed by the rabbi of the, synagogue
here, for I have made inquiries."
"If Acquaintance with Manasseh be a crime,"
exclaimed Odysseus, "then I am a criminal,
ao. Jew pr Qhristip lo may.b-l cae not;
but I know that he has, pgyrphased five: hundred
carbines at Marseilles, for the, Macedonian JVha-
lanx, that I hope to lead to. victory. If this is
treason to Greece, I wish that we had more
traitors !"
" Really," said Mavrocordato, "I do not see
through this business."
" It is light that I ask," cried Botzaris. "This
Manasseh, be he friend or-foe, has ever been the
guest of this pallid knave, while in Smyrna;
and he has also been the host of one who thirsts
for our blood. Nay, Lavalette, start not. I came
here with a certitude that I might be betrayed,
and took a farewell of my wife and daughters;
but I came here prepared to die like a man, face
to face with my foes. Nor have I been asleep.
I have visited the camp where a force is now in
training to destroy .our homes, and to quench
our hearth-fires with blood. The leader of that
force is a Christian renegade, who has eaten at
Greek boards, and professed to love. Greek
friends. But now he thirsts for our destruction.
This, Lavalette, you know; and yet, deny it
not, Osmar Bey is often your guest. Mysteri-
ously, too, does he come by night, meeting with
Manasseh, and going away no ote knows how.
For this, gentlemen, soldiers, Greeks, I plesige
my word; and, from the cnyictions of my
heart, I arrest and denounce this -pale French-
man as a spy-as a traitor to the cause he voluna
teers to sesive."
All eyes were directed to the  ceeused, upon
whose pallid cheeks were small crilnson spots,
glowing like two coals of. fit, while the 'blood
upon his united lips showed, conclusively by

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.'

hew severe an efort he had suppressed a vindic-
tiye reply.
"Lavalette," said the presiding *Acer, " what
explanation can you offer of this I"
"None, alas !" was the reply, in a meek, quiet
tone, utterly at valance with his malignant
glance, "That Osmar Bey has been at my
house, I will admit-nay, he is there now, or I
am mistaken--"
"1He is, or was half an hour ago," interrupted
ABotzaris.I
"And this, noble palikar," continued' Lava-
lette, "was probably what gamesters term  a
C trump-card,' which you have'held in reserve, in
order to brand me with infamy before this as-
semblage. Had you been more cautious in -our
demeanor I would have told it mysellfor My
intimacy with this man is one which might have
'been turned to great accounit in the impending
struggle. Nay, I now hold in .cio, a hostage for
which he would liberate every man here, did the-
fortunes of war thiow them in hisspower. That
hostage is the magnet which has attracted the
haughty bey to my home. It is to hear xews of
her that he is there now.. It was to afford a shel-
ter for her that h gave me'gold to buy a house
at Scio. Ay,-aidit is through her that Iexpect"
to carry out a long-nursed scheme of revenge
upon him! There you all have it; and may you,
Botzaris, make the most of it. I am here, a,
feeble old man, unemed, without friends! Seek'
ye to baptine ihis'asseiblage with blood? Strike
---the Victin is readyl1"
The earnest manner in which he spoke, not
only carried conviction to 'the hearts of many
present that Lavalette was innocent, but made
Botzaris stagger in his belief. The palikar had
stopped at Seo, on 'his way to Smyrna, for it was
there that he uad wooed and won his wife, and
he had accidentAlly learned that Lavalette-
thought to be a poor clerk-had purchased a fie

estate. Then, coming to Smyrna with a vener-
able Jew, he heard Manasseh denounced as
playing some foul game under the garb of that
uch-abused race, and also heard that he could
only be traced to the clerk's house. Further in-
quiries but added to their mysterious connection:;
and when he discovered that the Turkish general
was somewise mingled in the intrigue, his suspi-
cions had been aroused. But now that the object
of his jealous watchfulness had avowed the most
apparently criniina4 part 'of his conduct, and had
given such good reason for it, the noble-hearted
Greek feared that he might have had no founda-
tion for his suspicion.
"Palikars 1" exclaimed Odysseus, "what'think
ye now? Could we have a more triumphant
eridicatiol!"
princece," said Miaulis, '"I have heard all,
seen all-and we, sailors, have a prompt way of
act*ig. 'm4y felucca is at anchor close by, and
bylaylight I hope that her white sails will gleam
tin'ough the bay for Syra, and thence to Scio.
'o let this friend of Odysseus come with me,
and I will bring him back with a report before
the next new moon."
"Wel said,"'exclaimed Bttaris ; and a mur-
mur of assent showed that all approved of the
pret.
" Let mne go hotne," said Lavalette, "and
*"Nay, -comrade," interrupted Miaulis, "if all
is well ybu need no arrangements. Besides, your
niece is -at Beio-and, by the saints, you must go
there, also!",
There was no alternativeand Lavalette was
escorted directly to theIGreek lucca. His only
hope was that the consul had become tired of
waiting, and had left his honse without seeing
any one. He forgot that, in his embarrassment,
he had turned the key of the chamber, thus ren-
dering this impossible.


PECUiAlrr Durnicns06r. Lucky-was it for
the "most patient of all men " that "bills pay,
able" were unknown in Idumea, or he could
have been easily entangled into tomplaint. Even
Consul Orloff, who had passed through life with
grave indifference, each disappointment case-har-
dening his heart with stoicism,, now found him-
self fiarassed by business affairs-and this at the
very time when his nephew's recovery should
have made hin happy, without a cloud of care.
The truth was, that he had become a prey to the
secret machinations of Lavalette, and of Manas-
seh, who had gradually entangled himin their
meshes until there was no possibility of his es-
cape from bankruptcy. Yet the wily French-
man had so falsified the entries in his ledgers,
that everything appeared in a prosperous condi-
tion; and the only ground for a suspicion of
danger, which of late had begun to annoy his em-
ployer, was a constant demand for fresh capital.
When this was first wanted,-for previously the
consul had been the architect of his own fortune,
-Lavalette had introduced Manasseh, as having
idle capital, which he wished to invest at a mod-
erate interest, where it would be safe in case of a.
revolution. The consul, nothing loth, had thus
taken loan after loan, until he had more than
borrowed the amount of his home property-
although he fancied that he had large amounts
to his credit in the hands of distant consignees.

The necessity of calling on M aassch was tie
first positive humiliation; and it was with feel-
ings of angry montification that, the old gentle'
man left the consulate early on :the evening
which-in its later hours'-was marked by the
events already nanated. , As they wlkd along
he fancied that Lavalette's manner was changed,
and that the replies to his questions were evasive,'
and were given in rather an insolent tone, which
appeared strange from one whohsd ever been so
obsequious. What answers were given,. as tv
the different balances to the consul's credit i
foreign ports, were widely different from his
mental account-current, and came as flashes,
which only contributed to discover the darkness
lowering over his affairs. At length they reached
the Jews' quarter, where the, descendants of the
"chosen people" were seated at the doors of
coffee-houses, recounting the traditions of theii
nation's glory.- A few steps beyond the limit,
and they arrived at Lavalette's house.
It was the first time that the consul had ever
crossed the threshold, and he had no idea that fie
'was in the dwelling of his book-keeper-although
he was somewhat surprised to see Lavalette
open the outside door by pushing a concealed
spring, and hold it that he might enter,
" This 'way, Mr. Consul," said he; and, as he
went up stairs, followed by his enipo'yee, a sat-

TiI1IWXAN,
anl6 ~re sxon of t~fs~i-h illuniinated his fM-
tures.19ut,ionopeih the door of the'sitin-
roomthe expiesnibenhinied It6 A'perpixbd
look  'oi' it wat d"eutpied- Closing the' dbb'
histily, he Said in 'a6iffised-tdne:
'Up stirs up stiirs'!"
Ascetlng another flight of starts, he ushered
the consul into i iobftr with a' bay window, com
mnidingla' viewof the street below ; a'nd  hinted
to A ottomdn:
'811S down)i Mr. Coiigul, and I will soon re-.
ttrhi,"-a request which the-troubled merchant
co'niplied with--tbirowing hthself upon the otto-
Man in no very pleaskht itat'nf Mind.
Lavalette, after carefully closing the door be-
hind him, went' down staii, aid enifered his
siflngrons, where a yonng auliote palikar was
npatiently" pcing the flior.. It' was to avoid'
this unlooked-for visitor that he had hurried thi
consul up sttiis, aind it waS n6t without sone
visible app ebsion that he greeted hirm:
"-What newtOdyssetis1' I did not expect'to
see you."
"Neither did I expect to come," replied the
young mat, who Wore' the gay Suliote dress,
with its flowing "ftstaielle,' rlehly ornatnented
'rins, and tasselled scarlet cap. His counte-
nance had that voluptuous, yet noble look which,
the' ancient sculptors 'embodied in Pentellican
marble ; anr lis shining black eyes gleamed. as
tlouisgh they were destined to light his path at,
inidnight. " To-night, howeve  a treasurer is
to be chosen, and I wish to pre ent you to the
delegates. bb cone along,."
"But, nmy' dear Odysseus-"
"But," interrupted'the impatient SulOte, " Is
hota '*ord foi revolutionary tines. Why, you
have be at work for a week endeavorng to get
this post, and now refuse to come fbr it-t Why,
Inati alive, yu titmst come. I have told several
of the palikars that you would be there, and, by
the 'rock of Corinth, I will not take 'no' as fin
answer. So put oh your stove-funnel head-cov-
ering, and lit's be off."
Lavalette bit IAis nailswith vexa'tion-fbr he
desired the office of treasurer to the revolutiohists
in 'order to catry out his plots, yet he feriied td
leave the'consul. Another ,day, and he could
defy hime; but a thought came to his relief.
"Tell ie,' taid he, "can Inot return here
Soon, for I'have a visitor up stairs."
"fIa! ha! some lady comes to enliven the
evenings of the accountant ?l"
Lavalette made a ghastly attempt to smile at

CMARDSMAt                               89
the wit of the rattle-braned young palikar,' and
thought It uieayitaidea.
"Hush'' sid le, in a hysterious 4hispr;
"do not "talk so loda dIf. yottw ill ptimnise me
tha -I cat retur'n in lesr than hohir I'will ae-
gompny yOt"
"An hour be It."
"Well, Wait here h -ihatatit, while I go up
stairs, and I will then be with you."
He thenwent to the rooin in which he had left
the consul,.and made some stammering excuses,
promising to return in a few moment. Not
waiting a .-eply, he descended to the lower floor,
gave a message to his- servant, and then rejoined
Odysseub.
" Here you are, with the dew of her kissed on
your lips. Now. let us be; off, for Mavrocordato
is to preside, and the oldfellow has not much
more patiene than I hveo"
They left Ahe house.; and we have pr-yol
recorded what befell Lavalette at the meeting of
revolutionists. . He little dreamed, as he crossed
the threshold, that lie would never again visit
the harbor of so many plotp-the web, where he
had lay concealed, year after year, as he spun
his threads of guilt.
We will now return to.Consul Orloff, who was
thus left alone in an upper chamber, inastate
of suspense, the most.insupportable of all phases
of life; There had been something in his book-
keepe's manner that had grated harshly on his
feelings'; nor had the replies, whichbhe had given
during their, walk as to business matters, been
at all satiAfaetry, fbi thy had.widely 'diffred
from  his on estinatfe of the suins 'due him
abroade' It has beeonie a pro'erb, that in mat-
ters in which a man may be supposed to be
most interested, ho exhibits no vigilance 'at all;
and the consul, upon reflection, felt that he was
entir-ely at the Mitdy of his bookkeblpr, who'
had, perhapi,'efeettdhis toin. At any Ate, ie
determined to uprivel the  ystry without de-
lay, and to ascertain exactly how Yntters slood.
The rooi waA rather warn; .and, as twillit
was castingits' deep shadows, the consulsestd
himself upon a divan; in the bay window; atd
op'nsed the lower sashes. It was' a lovelnight,
and the eol sett-btefe,tti   the  few'gqsy
'oldks upon the 'old finals temples, ealinied hig
feverlsh blood. ' He felt that he' stood updi .the
brink'of a' chasm-but determined to adt with'
fortitude, and, meet his fate manfnTy.  The'
thought that his loved grandson might be 6k-
gored 'was thre severest psing; but th~eti; aithe

0

CHAPTER Vil.,
"As thistle wear the softest down,
To hide their prickles tin they're gromr
Ani then declare theOnselves, and tear.
Whatever ventures to coste near:.-
So amoeth knave does greater feats
Than one. that I* rails and fretw?,
And an the misetet that he aeant
Doet, like the ragle-nake, prevent'

I


quietjpvnes3 Ofthe night calMe4 his ovi4e
spirit, he was cheered by the recoplgetion of he:
ypjung_; o4cer'srapi  advanceme t, under the
penuonsyqtectientof she arhdOtke4 jFgorhinp
self,. , poft lly, he cre  but little. tboxg he
felt that it was hard for a merchant; whosegq i
had been undoubted for a long term eqfnars, to
beishenpred to his old.age, and that by same
culpable villany.
4A $rohcliidg footsteps, in the street ielw,
atraeted ,his attention;and he. sw aman ap'
pidah, fdllowed'afa Yew paces by twO soldiers,
whosit eqtspmentse leldaed in the bright mooni
slined  Stopping at Lavlette's door, the consul
heard him say, in a voice which had anfaillr,
46 You can rdturut to the bdracks. Tell!Otho
to eomehere-he kbo  thsvbe house---in-half an.
hour, and to bring a sergeant's mountedzguard
with him, for there iae scores of Greeks aboufit
to night. Let therth bewell armed aftd mounted,
fori shall return at -once to the camp."
;he soldiers, with- a -military saute, ti-ned
away; and the stranger, apparently, endeavored
to olen'the door, but was unsuccessful, Utter-
ing an oath he then seized the ring-usden
the East as a knocker, or door-bell-and rattled
it irpand down on its serrated long iron slide,
making the street rig with its echoes. The
summons soon brought the servant
"Why is the spring fastengd.?" growled the
stranger.
"Your brother did It, noble sir," was the
seryant'sreplyj "* though, whep, he went out, he
expected to return before you came. He said,
however, that if-"
Herethey entered the house, andthe consul.
heard no inore; but his suspicions were aroused
to;, .greater degree than before. Rising, h e
walked to ee dpor of the room--but found'that
it was lockedI He ,was a prisoner--snd, per-
haps,- there was some diabolical scheme, by
which-he had beenleoyed int tis lonely part
of- the city,, where. cries for help would, be un-,
heeded.. Looking around the room, which was,
lightedlythe full rays of the moon he espied.
anpher, door. This was only fastened with a
latch;:buton opening it, he found that it led
into a large closet, todhich there Was 0o other
oulet, excepting a smll window, A cartAii
shaded thierindow on the other side; and-the,
con4 reterued to his seat at the window, o er-
looking thie street,. determined to -call for siid

shouldsAprol p     A   or ha    on elpse T
since Lavalette left. Whydi he nqt reprni '
While thus aprey to eofi'ti ng.t hopuglts,Y e
heard, a step asced the stairs~ang stated to
his feet; but the person  hpebvgr i -spassed
by. Another moment,,and light shone tbrgugh
the window ahe. bottomt'ofe tclosetand he
lhl  n irresistbl e impuls9 ta see what he could
Approaching neiseessly, he toed upon a
and found that the curtain, of thin m Ini, 4id
not -ppvenhis; seing everythingin the room
beyond. .The, stranger. was, at first, standing
with hiaback towfrds him; hnth coon changed
his positioned, the consul ;ecognized-MA--
nassehi
Yes thpro, could be no mistake; and yet his
flowig.hitobeard ha4 been metamorphosed
into one ,pf glossy blagkuss, trimmed rather,
closply for the-rdent. Bt, stngest of all,.he
had the consul's ledge r  and, the old merchant,
with u troubled hegrt, sawhinm turn over leaf
afierleaf, while, occasionally, a swile of triumph
gleamed over his stern features. At times lie
was tempted to knock on.tle-window, and tie-
mand an explanation; but prudence counselled
;him to, remain quiet, -and unravel, if possible,
this strange proceeding.
Again the ring at the enter door was rattled;
but, before the consul could gain the window,
the new-comer had entered., ItWas,'he thought,
Lavalette-and now there would be some action,
But the footsteps wer far heavier, as they. ap-
proached, than was the cat-like tread of the wily,
Frenchman, and they passed by, also, to the.next
room. Again did the old man act a part which,.
under any other circumstances, he would have
scorned., Posting -himself at the window, lie not,
_only saw what passed, but easily heard every
word spoken.
The new comer was a mulatto, dressed in the
well-known garb ef an English sailor. A Wide
shirt collar, carelessly tied with a blacksilk
handkerchief, felt far on the shoulders of his
blue jacket, on the front of which were thick
rows of bright buttons. Extravagantly, large
white trowaers came oyer -eatly-fitting pumps;
and, in his hand, he twirle :a straw hat, With
some word, in golden letters, upon its broad
ribbon.
0 Is all ready fortsea'i" inquired Manassehb
"Ay, ay, your honor,-the 'Dolphin  i a-
ways ready."
"Did Captain Maxwell send, mc anymep-,
-sage Ii'

T fflj- RV-SIAN
-  He ade metten iou, st, that le did mnot
fancy"this kidnapping business, but that he would
'obey 'odes. Het said, too, that he had heard
that Lord Byron was ekpected, at Athens, and,
thatiqperhap, lie had betterwait orders therb' for
hint."                            - '
"Tina enough when he receives such orders.'
Here, hark ye. Take this des atch to your cap-
tain, when ,you go: on board; but do not go
without' your prisoner. Yon will-fitnd Aehmet
at the barracks,- who will give orders Ifor as
many men .to aeebmpany you as you ihink'nen
cessaryi It will be better not to arrest him iai
the consulate."       -
"What !" thought the consul, "am I to be,
'carried off by force - At any rate, they do not
expect that I am here, and I will remain quiet.
Where can Lavalette be V"
"Get him out dbors," Manasseh continued,
"and then pounce upon him. You shall have a
iuuidred pillared dollars each, if you are obedi-
ent and successful; but harm a hair of his head,
and I will string you up like your own sails.
Now start, and, when you leave the quay, tell
Achmet to send me a report by the non-commis-
sioned officer of the men you take to aid you."
The mulatto bowed, put on his hat, and left
the room. Manasseh continued his examination
of the books, but soon closed them, consulted his
watch, and then went down stairs. A few mo-
ments more, and the street resounded with tle
clatter of horses' hoofs,- and again the consul
repaired to the window. It was a small party
of Turkish cavalry ; and, at their head, a mount-
ed Nubian held the rein of a led horse. Dis-
mounting, the Nubian rattled the door-ring, and
ere long the unknown stranger . came out. The
consul, placed almost directly over the door-way
in which he stood, could not distinguish his fea-
tures; but,, as he vaulted into the saddle of the'
led horse, a thick, black beard was distinctly vis-
ible, exactly like that'which had so changed the
features of Manasseh. His voice, too, sounded
like that of the Jew, as he inquired:
" Has the guard left the barracks with Ach-
met ?"
"CHalf an hour ago, your highness," replied
the Nubian.
"Then I will go and await their report ere I
leave for the camp."
Touching his fine Arabian with the spur, the
spirited animal sprang forward at a gallop, and
the others following, were soon out of sight.
Never was a man more complete'y bewildered

than was COnsul Orloff. In vain did he seek *
unravel the tangled web, but could not gain any
satisfactory clue.7Lavalette did not return.-4be
heard iothing more oft Manasseh-aid -the*i
was, evideitly, a plot for his forcible abdUction.
.His heart sank withia..him, as he balanced his
chances of escape, of solvency, and he sat at ,the
win4ow4.u-until sleep cast her comfortirag miantle
over him.
Thm morning gun boomed ,rom the citadel,
ond lhet restles:reaser started. We ethe
events of the past night, which rapidly flashol
through his miadi realities l-,-or did, ,he yet
repli1 Alas. I he was yet a prisoner;, and the
risiOngun greeted him as he looked from-the
window-while the street below 'was filled by
Turks, summoned to their morning devotions by
the "muezzins," calling the faithful to prayer
from the galleries of the mosque minarets. It
was no dream, and, he looked about for some
way to escape. The lock- of the door was put
on the inner-side, and with the aid of a table-
knife, which he found in the closet, he soon lib-
erated himself. Descending the staircase with
as little noise as possible, he reached the street
door,.pushed back the bolts, and once more was
at liberty. Nor was it long ere lie again entered
the court-yard of the consulate.
" The saints be praised !" exclaimed Katrina,
who met him at the door. "My dear -master,
where have you been ?"
Making a vague reply, the consul hurried up
ino the room of his nephew-but it was empty.
The bed had evidently not been disturbed, and
all of the young officer's trunks were gone.
Here was another source-of wonder, and the al-
most distressed old man rang the bell. Demetri
.responded to the summons.
" Where is the major ?" he asked, ere the do-
mestic had fairly crossed the threshold.
"Indeed, Mr. Consul, I do not know. Some
of the man-of-war's men came here late last
night, and said he had sent them forhis trunks,
and I did not like to refuse them."
"But the major ?"
"I have not seen him, sir, since last evening.
Captain Paskewitsch is'down stairs, and may tell
you."
The consul hurried down, his mind agitated
by forebodings of ill.,
" My dear captain," said he, "why have you
abducted Alexis ?"
Somewhat astonished, the captain could not
explain himself at first; nor was his surprise


1JlSIA&amp;N GUAWSMW.

Aliinished when lie leamedefremnthe consul the :ning Greek revolution. Yout nephew wasprob.
94Yenarrsof the past pight.! When Ie had e on- ably-on. board ast night whep,  have leaMed
e494Al4 9  aeX0 stedthAt fDomotri might he call- from my g-slate, that.she weighed anchor ad
eilia4djiade this inquiry:                 left though I doubt if he was taken againsthis
- HWad ithe-sailors:who carcme for the major's will, fQr her. commander is a. British offer,
baggage any motto an the ribbons around their named Maxwell, who I know to be a gentleman.
ats At say Iate I would give myself iao unpeainees
- es siv1 The word 'UolphIAn?-I'reaem. on that score.- As to yourself, if you do not re.
ber it perfectly."                    ..   esive some satisfactory, explanation from Lav-
You:'can- go nowAl id the eaptainand alette, I feel .It my duty to invite you,, as his
whenjhn domestic had 'lei he turned'towards. mDjsty's consul, to move your papers on board
the conelA. of the 'Nicolal.'. Trouble isbrewing, audit will
1 "rThe mulatto you, saw, M.tcongsl,Aa the be prudent to escape it, besides giving a personal
.oxswain of'rLtd: Byronts yacht, which 'I half overhauling to your books."
suspect has been used by th plotters of thisUen-

0

CHAPTER IX.
'The ses of GOreee, the lales of GOre e!
Where burning Sappho loved and sung,
Where grew the art of war and peace*-
Where Deles rose and Phoebus sprdg!
Eternal summary gIOBsthem yet,
but all, eoxept their sun, is set."

TINss a uAG  SA641  Loveliest of all waters#
its bright surface almost seems conscious that it
laves Classic isles, and that it has been tracked
by the keels of vessels which bore mighty con-
querors, and classic historians, and bards of nev-
er-dying fanie. Seldom rTufed by a storm, the
pure blue waters' sleep undisturbed beneath an
equally clear cerulean sky, drinking in bright
sunbeams.by day, ad at night rurning the
moon's pale glance with a golden smile. Moun-
tait islands -rise within sight of .each other, their,
sloping aeclivites covered with verdani forests;
while the plains at the bases are cultivated, or
planted *iih olivegroves, in whi6h rise'the pic-
turesque white stone dwellings of the inhabitants.
Felucca', with their snowy cotton sails -spread
on'either quarter, like the wing 'of a swan,lag
lazily along through 'the slay, waiting for the'
fresh hight breeze, wile bright dolphins sport
around, as if escorting ;h'm through this nautical
paradise. Night Codet on-the breeze freshens,
and the quiet-languot'of the day gives place to
invigorated excitement. . Sunken rdieks, and pi-
rates; and gugtirof wind corning around the isl-
and mountains, keep the imagination of the
mariners on a cntinual 'fli: vice."  But the
passengers can enjoy the softened azure of the'
midnight sky-or,if it be cloudy, the long libe
,of phosphorescent light, whieb commences at the

vessel's bows, and is left in her wake, heaving
and glittering like a stream of lava pouring down
the- side of a Volcano,inntil it is lost in the dim-
ness of distance.
'WAs it strahge that Alexis, alone with Elisst
in such love inspiring scenes, soon worshipped
her with passionate idolatry? Captain Maxwell
seldom joined them, except at the table, aind
Alexis thus basked unrestrained in the blight
stmshine of Elissa's smiles, without even think-
ing whether its glad warmth would ripen his
affection to perfect fruition, or whether dark
clouds would sweep in and cloud the horizon
of 1is hopes. The very sky seerned fairer than
it ever had before; and his pulse throbbed with
an intoxicating delirium as he experienced' the
delights of that sweetest of All emotions-first
love. He who has not memories of such buds of
happiness, has lost' a' bright chapterr from his
book of recollections-cherished thoughts, which
(as another has beautifully expressed it) come to
us on their golden pinions fiom  the bowers of
time, and sing, with th ir voices of nielody to the
heart.  Like dancing girls, they scatter rose
leaves upon our path, and crown our hearts with
feelhigs that can never die. Conquering every
other thought, -it' cones, like a dream at mid-
night, hovering over the sleeping tnystery of the
mind, and glowing in the radiant beauty of Its


e

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.

en presence. Even in after years, when the    "But, is he a brother teLavalbtte ? continued
footsteps of crime crush the fragments of mem- Alexis, perfectly mystified-for he had looked
cry, the heart retains the fragrance of its first upon the book-keeper with some suspicion, think-
passion, "like a vase in which roses have once ing that he was.leagued with Manasseh, and now
been distilled."  Its possessor may stand like it appeared that they were brothers. For a few
Marius, amid the overthrow of hopes, and the moments his- brow was clouded, but the smiles
ruins of friendship, but the delightful souvenirs of his companion soon made him forget his sus-
of "first love," like " the scent of the roses, will picions. No matter who she was, or where she
linger there still."                        came from; she was none the less lovely. .I
He did not declare his passion, 'nor did she  The day passed away, and with the night
avow that reciprocation of it which filled her came a breeze, swelling the sails, and carrying
heart, and lighted up her beautiful face with a the 'Dolphin' merrily over the waters. The sky
smile of joyful confidence. Her long sweeping was clouded, however, and there was some ap-
eye-lashes were cast down, but often the dark pearance of a storm; but the .lovers heeded it
eyes they fringed would glance to meet those-of not; and Elissa, at the earnest request of Alexis,
Alexis, like glances of lightning from the black- sang several Greek songs in a rich, melting
ness of the thunder-cloud. Nor is this elorjence voice. He drank in every tone of her pathetic
of the eyes less expressive than languages tihey iarling, although he did not understand the
" change, like messengers, the loving freight that meaning of thd Romaic words; and the melody
either heart sends forth.!' Elissa was perfectly of one song was so in-unison with his feelings
sensible of the silent and reverent homage she that.he begged.for a translation.
was receiving, and every hour codfir.igd-ier ad-  "lNay," shd replied, "it is a sad ballad, and
miration of his high and n6ble qitalities.  an ill-omen. But 1 know a translation,"* and
They were driven to the southward oftieir she hang(
direct course; and on the third morning, after "The cuckoo sings upon the hills, the partridge In the
they: left Sagna,,$hq ' DolphI' lay becahpned   pii
they Sm~na, h'A littk-4                   b ~ier MNhead, wbere DomOn ~lbati
e#7Paros, her graceful hull swaying gently to   tla     s   -;ae      rseao
and fro upon the molten, surface.of th Bstiltwa  uoweetly matters geideWodi2r, the ily ttering
tars. With the aid of a glass, the vessels in the  wings.
partof Nesussa were visible; an , as Alexis was 'why, De)es, art tlvou 4eaAly sale?-wby is adeess op
gaming at them, a breath of air displej  their   hro'
'gedNtheir                           d otink, biy lsitle bird, Pillulck]YUtell S ehow
fags for an instant.                        Ilak me down in balmy, sleep,.,py wearie&amp;lmbs to rest,
"There.s   Rssia     'g     de    ," s'd    t have had a dream that irs with boading'ars iny
is a  assian ;msign, I declare,"am    breast.
h  Wou    you like to see it ?"          I saw within my Mdeous drearA straiige trAubis in'the
Yes," pqplied Elissai "I knowit well--for  -  y, -
wlenfrere was a riot egred at Smyrna, a fIw                 e   eanitebor wiule i nesk-soar6 me s  i *sood,
years ago, my uncle brought eo home, and had 'My l1ghtDam seus schaelar bedimed  guts of
it all ready, to hang from a window, to show his     -
nationality."                                 "wel sgg'sideatain Maxwellwho had,
" He is not a Russianthough?"~ stolen aft-during the ballad;. "but it isma doleful
SNo.; but beiqg in the employ of your unTe  ditty, to soy faaWy. Tobe sareg we'my have to
he claims his consular protection."         nse;our scimetars against seole pirates hat  hy
"My uncle ?" ~ borrow troublo in advance?"
"Yes, major. Do y    not kno* that Tm a     "But," repieg Alexis, "Mademoiselle Eliasa
niece of Monsieur Lavalette, your unele's book- sang it at nq request. -L like these Eleptie ba-,
keeper I" .lads, rude and gloowny as they,are'
Alexts started with astonishment, "PerhapsI said the 'eaptaih, with a smile,
"Ithought," said he, "that your father was oyotfancy the singing as much as the words ?2"
a4 Oriental-an Oriental Jew ?' and Iihehesita-  -Alexis blushed to hisvery temples, and-Elissa
ted as he finished his sentence.            came to his rescue.
"Notis bit of one," replied issa. "ie is  ,'erhaps, captain, yoa can ing us apmething
a Frenchman, by birth, and only gssunes that Me9e lively "
costume he wore, when you rescued him, in order
topurue his busineais."             *This Is a Uterai translation Thom a avorite balla&amp;
to purwhisebusinessaffa-s."g                        eeks

41

44

. TB' 'USSIANiGUARDSMAN.
"Nay, miss, unless, it were more lively I   Meanwhile the breeze freshened, and the lg..
should. not sing at all. But I will give you a ger foamed through the wroer, hersmaots jerking
sea.ditty, if you eare to hear it."         with that uneasy .motion indicative of a press 9f
f "0; sing-it, by allmeans."              saiL. The moon was obscured by the clouds that
Seating himself upon the slide of one of thT swept across the blue sky, and not a star peeped
four carronades, that were on the quarter-deckj out to enliven the scene. The pursuing votpel
the captain igave1' a preliminary '"fahem," and was indistinctly visible, as the phosphorescent
trolled forth a ballad, then the vogue among sheets of foam were dashed from her bows; and
nauticalHen:-                               Salvo now came aft with a large lantern, which
"0, br that Manil of old,             he hung over the "Dolphin's" stern, as if to
Who sungwith heart-felt glee:       show the way to those in chase,
'y    le I lsniysbd,             Alexis, meanwhile, had naturally felt some.
what alarmed. Not that lie feared an encounger,
Mfy doath be, while we -oe;        but that he knew too well what would be the fate
MT true but dearr far that grave,     of her to whom  he was surrenderingg his every
Than1vemai's fickle love.                                   edrnhievy
thought. A drizzling mist now begnp to fall,
Swell on, thou breeze, and fleet unfold . and Captain Maxwell insisted that his passengers
-3fy"6af1ft&amp;white wigsto ties;adCa             a   el uie ttI&amp;psn*r
fy loys itre my vessel botire.
IIrs-is the a.'                     'fut do you not apprehend danger?" inquiir.
While singing, the officer had been peering aft, ed Alexis.
and his practised eye had discovered a vessel  "No, indeed. Put on   cloak, and come on
astern, apparently endeavoring to get to wind- deck, if von wish to see you fellow badled. Uo
ward of them.                               mwy mean us no harm, but' I do not choose to
No sooner had concluded the stanza than: wait his coming."
he sprang to his feet, and, in a loud voice, cried: After escorting Eissa helow, and assuring her
0"Forecasle, there I",                    tht he woald inform her if there was any chance
Ay; ay, sir !" was the response.        of an encounter, the guardsman returned on
"Call all hands I;, Haul aft the starboard deck and found Salvo in high glee, busily en-
braces ! Helm a-weather I Lay aloft, and shake gaged with the carpenter in nuaking wiit appear-
the reef out of the topsail I"      '       ed to be a buoy. -Chain-shot were lashed to
A prompt-execution ofthese orders brought the. bottom of an empty water-cask, while a
the pursuing vessel directly astern; and the boat-hook had been run through a-hole, bored in
"Dolphin" lay down to a pretty stiff breeze, go- the top, and well caulked. From the top of the
ing through the.,water like a thing of life.. The boat-hook a large lantern wais hung.; and then
mate" qamo afts with his sry-glass, and handed, the mulatto, with a chuckle of satisfaction, re-
it tr CaptainMaXwell, who en4eavored to make ported "All ready." , It appeared to Alexis
her out                                    that it was time for something to be ready, for
"I fear that it is an 'Alexandrian corsair," he could see land through the gloom, and hear
said he, "inwhich case we must fight if oyer- the sullen roar of breakers.
haaled.. Keep her fulL"                      "-It is time," said Salvo, coming aft, and
"Full it is, sir,", said the quarter-master, taking the wheel. The pursuing vessel was now
who had taken the wheel. But it was evident so near that her lights were distinctly visible,
that the distancebetween the vessels was dimin-  "Are you all ready, forward?" sung out the
ishing, rapidly, for her hull was now distinctly captain, in a low, yet clear tone of voice.
visible.                                 -    "All ready, sir."
"Pass the word for Salvo ?"                 "Boy, put out the light in thatlantern astern,
" Here I am, sir," answered the mulatto, com- and stand by to light the other. All hands 'bout
ing to the quXArter-deck,                   shipI Ease down the helm-handsomely-hand-
"Can you take her through the cut of Stron- soxuely ! Let fly the jib-sheet 1 Mainsail haul I
gelo I"  , ,          ,                     Belay all!"
" Ay, ay, sir I"                      .     The cutter came handsomely around, and.
"Listen,, then;" and the captain gave him  soon passed the vessel in pursuit. She was then
some orders which rather amused iim-for he. hove-to, the lantern on the buoy was lighted, and
chuckled as he went forward, and called the the affair carefully launched on tile water, where
carpenter.

a

"1


THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN,              47

'HE RDSSIAN GOUABD VAN.

itfokted; and this mock vessel sooit drifted be- deck of the "Dolphin,' which were returnedby
fone the vessel, evidently attracting' the notice 9f the other.vessel, that no* displayed the red-cross
'thestringer *hich was seen t changeher course. of England. Alexis -vas astonished ; bithe at
4 There," claimed Captain-Maxwell,'when once comprehended the mystery when Captain
theyhave caught the barrel we shall 'be safe Maxwell, in a laighiig, yet respectful tone, said
enough."                                  to the stranger:
Th" helnmWas then put up, and soo the "Del-    I f it had been knownuthat Lord Byron wished
phin," right before the wind, shot lito a narrow tovisit his craft--"
strait, -with foaming brekkeit neither hand.  " Captain Maxwell," interrupted-the other,
Half an hour more, and she alpi'ached a vil- "would not have sent him after a lantern at the
lage on one side of the channel, where gleaming expense of a water-cask. -;But come on board,
lights showed that- the inhabitants had not' all old salt, I have much to ask ad to say."
retired. Here the Arrhort waste let go, the sails  The captain at once ordered a boat to be low-
were-furled, and the crew of the "Dolphin "... ered, and went on board their supposed enemy.
over a liberiext-a allowance of grog-laughed When he returned he was aecrnipanied by the
ovei the adventures of the evening. stranger, who wore the dress of a common sailor,
Going on deck early the next noting, Alekis made of the finest materials 'the open, rolling
found that the cutter was anchored in the aar- collar disclosed a fine -nek,- upon whics rested ia
ro* channel which separated the islands of Paros small yet expressive head. Glossy dark brown
and of Auto-Paros, an estuary which is very curls clustered, around his high forehead; 'his
like- Hitt Gate, near New York. Conflicting cheeks were colorless; and a sportive pleasant-
tides, hidden roeks, and rapid currents, make it ness beanted from his light graf eyes.
impassable to any vessel, unless, as was the ease  "Major Orloff," said the captain, " perniit me
with the " Dolphin," there is an experienced-pilot to introduce to you Lotd Byron, the owner of
on board.       .                          the 'IDdphin."
None of the-crew were on deek, excepting the  "Who," continued the gentleman thus intro-
boys,who were coiling the ropes, cleaning brasses; djced, with a winning smile;, "is happy to meet
and putting everything in order. Alexis gazed Major- Oiloff here, lihogh he regrets to find his
on the novel scene around him, congratulating yacht used as a kidnapping craft. - Our friend,
himself upon their escape, when he thought he the captain here, has been regularly bamboozled,
espied the masts of a vessel moving around a; sir;'and while, in the honesty of his heart,:he
promontory. - He immediately went below to in- thought he , was serving Greece,--as I had i'es
form the captain, who was just leaving'his state- quested him 'to do while I was away,-he has
rdom; and when they came on deck, thete wts been carrying despatches fo1 Osmar Bey, the
a vessel moving towards them with well-manned reftegade oppressor of all that is good. I know
sweeps. A glance assured Capt. Mtixwell, and, that you will acquit him, for one look of his hon-
seizing a trumpet, he thundered out:       est face is enough-and now, major, where shall
" All hands to quarters! fBritig up the arm- he take you ?"
chests Rig the boarding-nettingo! Stand by  Aexis, mor6 astonished than ever, could not
your guns !'                               reply-for he did not wish to leave Elissa, aid
AleXis seized a cutlass, and tlhrust a pair of yet was she innocent-of all complicity in this web
pistols in his belt, determined to lay dowi his of mystery.
life, it necessary, rather thari have Elissa harmed.  "Let me -plan for you,' said Lord Byron.
The supposed pirate was now clearly visible ; "I with Captain Maxwell to tke this girl home,
her splashing sweeps lashing the water with rapid for I am sure, from his account, that she is igno-
strokes. Her -heavy batteries were distinctly 'fant of all these strange"'doings of her uncle,
seen, and her deck was apparently crowded with who is in some way mingled with the renegade,
rnen, but no flag wtved from her gaff. On' she Osmar Bey. Now, if you are. willing, he can
came, as -if to cross the broadside of the "Dl- leave "her at Scio, take you back to Smyrna,
phii," and board her bows ; but, as she passed, and then, perchance, you will return with him to
a man sprung into her main-rigging, and shouted, Athen3-although not as a prisoner."
in a elear voice:                            This was doubly agreeable to Alestis, and they
"Well done, the 'Dolphin!"              were soon at breakfast in the cabin-although
Three hearty cheers rose iiU reply fron the Elissa declined joining them. The'blyff captain

was evidently somewhat bewildered ; nor did
Lord Byron cease to tantalize him about being
an aid to the enemies, instead of the friends of
Greece. The repast over, they went on deck,
where Lord Byron mingled with the erew, who
almost appeared to worship him. Then, bidding
Alexis farewell, he stepped into a boat, which
had been sent from the other vessel, saying, as
he shook Captain Maxwell's hand:
"Make haste back to Athens, for I am deter-
mined to aid the Greeks, if I die on their classic
soil. And the 'Dolphin' should retrieve her
character by rendering them assistance, after hav-
ing -been a letter-carrier and a kidnapper for
their cruel misters. Adie4,"

A muttered oath was the perplexed seaman's
only reply; but, ere the noble owner was on
board the other vessel, the " Dolphin's" anchor
was at her bow, and her canvass unfurled. A
moment more, and with braced yards she left
the channel, with a prosperous breeze and a
cloudless sky. The marble-crested heights of
Paros soon fhded into the distance, and the "JDol.
phin" once more rode upon the broad, blue
breast of the M~gean sea, beneath the azure glow
of the' Oriental sky. Then Elissa came forth
again, and Alexis narrated a portion of what had
transpired, although he felt that he was ignorant
of the real position of her uncle. Of one thing
he felt certain---she was innocent gf all crime,
1*i   '


CHAPTER Xe
"Bright, purely bright the morning beams
Glance o'er the deep blue sea,
And at the mast the pennant streams
As gily anid 4s free.
In joyful hope their proud bark went
To gain a haven fair;
But storm and wave its sails soon rent-
It sank In dark despair."
"Tum EQUINOCTIAL! It is a regular terror banging lashes, like flowers half hidden by their
to us who foflow the sea," said Capt. Maxwell, flinging petals, he felt the imperious sway of
as he was called from the cabin of the "'Dol- that resistless passion, that conquers every other
phin," ere the dessert was removed, by an an- thought.
nouncement from his first mate that:          "Elissa," lie said, "I would relinquish all on
"The equinoctial was brewing !" earth for you, and' I have hoped that you were not
"Why !" said Alexis, with some surprise, "it insensible to my love. Why not, then, be mine 1"
looked pleasant enough when we came down.     Gazing at the object of his adoration as he -
Besides, we had the gale last night."      spoke, he saw with joy that she trembled with
"That was the messenger, I fear," replied the emotion, drooping her head in graceful confus-,
captain. "Never mind, though; we must get ion, to bide the varied feelings that flashed across
ready to scud before it; and- if we can but get her mind, and were betrayed by the telltale blush-
clear of these islands, Mademoiselle Elissa will es on her checks.
be at Scio to-morrow morning."  And the cap-  "Need I tell you," he continued, in an impas-
tai, buttoning his coat, went on deck. Alexis sioned tone, "that for years I have- formed an
and Elissa, leaving the table, sat down, side by ideal shrine within my yearning heart, but never
side, upon the sofa, at the far extremity of the found a divinity to occupy it, until you blessed
cabin.                                     my vision with your beauty. Your voice, like
" Why not keep on to Smyrna ?" asked Alex- the harp of the inspired prophet of Israel, has
is, with a sad smile, as though his eyes would infused soft peace into my troubled breast, and
read his companion's heart-thoughts.  'I   I could listen to its sweet voice forever. You are
" Nay," 'replied Elissa, "my wanderings must my life, my light ! Each pure thought blossoms
end. Should my uncle or my father have arrived as you approach, and without your fostering love
at Scio ere I return, what will they think ?"  each aspiration of my soul will wither and die.
A desire to tinravel the mystery of Lavalette's Do not crush my hopes, but tell me that I may
conduct flashed across the young officer's mind, dai-e-may hope-to call you mine 1"
but it was chased away by a glance from her trust-  .' You preserved my life," said Elissa, throw-
ful eyes. Intoxicated, with their loveliness, as ing back the long ringlets that had fallen before
they glanced from beneath their long, black. her face as she had drooped her head, while her

T=t -AUSUIA GUARD $MAN,. r49'

lips parted like an opening rsetinder he in$n-
ene, Ysasmile.; "Y.    ae aP right t claim
it.. Put ypuncan #ndnapy nors worty of yogir
love than the niece of your uncle's clerk."
'Never,!" impetnopsly exclaimed Alexis, tak-
ing her right hand inhis ownwhile his left arm
circled her tiny waist. Her head sank.upon hia
shoulder, and she pndeavorpd to, speak,;. bi her
heet was too full for Words, and shetinrgedlier.
glowing face towards his, The pledge gas t ken
from her willing lips, and the fountain of their
loves was thisutsealed.
HappymQment I A knowledge that #pst love
is reciprocated is theprirgeval pulse-beeop qf joy,
which beats thereeforth in the heart ; merry.
niarch awardss the gQal of wpAlock love. - Then,
if ever, theyoung lovers, whoqeutqrjhisvista-of,
affection, feel ;that earth is a paradie-neither
do they yearn for a brighter sphere.
"Why return to Scio?" asked Alexis. .And
then a vague suspicion about her uncle, gather-,
ing likea mysterious shadow night around
his thoughts, he continued:
"Supposing we get paptain Max  e1 to turn
around, and go directly to Athes, where we ean
enjoy our love without ,anger of--"
Misunderstanding the purport of this remark,
upon which her pure womanly pride put a con-
struction that stifled, all, affection, Elissa throw
off the encircling arm, and sprang to her feet.
Happy Images, but a moment before, revelling
in her affections, were scattered.like fairies be-
fore an arch-enchanter's wand; her cheeks glow-
ed with indigriation, and her eyesifiashed proudly.
So, chivalrous major " she exclaimed, "your,
love is-that.guilty passion which esteepns not the,
object,.and yould.degrade the idol of its profes-
sions to the.lowest depths o inmfany., ou have
wrung from me a confessionthatI loved you. I
did !-but now the kiss yougave me.burns like a
brand of shame  ..-l"
"Nay, nay," interrupted Alexis, .".hear meV"-'
"I have heard enough., Poor--th1 piece of
your prou4 uncle's book-keeper--  sight haro,
known that fou never would have1 loved mp,
with that spiritual and.refined affection that de-
mnands. to be hallowed by holy-rite. srewell
I shall ever think of yoa with gratitu  and
with remorse. Bat do not, I entreat of yo1, evr
sacrifice another innocent heartupon, th, shrine
of which you just now spoke--the shrine p licenq
tious. vanity."
"But lear, me? 1'-
"Not a word)" ahe replied, in an imperative,

tone; and retired into her state-room. .The bolt
clinched in the 49pr-lock, and Alexis was alone.
His fondest hopes were crushed; his pure .inten-
tions cast back, daggled in the mire, of .suspi-
cion; and the bitter stikgs, of disappointment
rankled in his wounded heart. With a bent brow
and a quivering lip, he ascended the companion-
Way, and slowly.paved the deck.
The'wind had not risen since the morning;
bqit the sky paa gloomy, wbiile" the heaving of
the cross-seas presaged a stormy night. Thick
mngsses of cloud scudded across the, sky,. and a
dense mist caie from the mountains of Attica,
while the setting sun glowed like a half extin-
guished furnace, All the light .*ls 'had; been
sent down, and the lugger lay-to under storm-
reefed mau-sails,with enough of her, jib\set to
make her answer her helm.
To Alexisehis -contest of the elements  as
welcome, for the scene harmonized with his trou-
bled. spirit. . Sopn came the storm, howling an-
grily through the shrouds, while groaning tim-
bera aptd flapping sails added to the wild uproar.
The darkness increased, and the lugger was put
before the wind-it was with diflculty that the
man at the helm could, keep her there, as she
was tossed over, the mountain-waves '
The captain and crew were vigilant in their
battle wih the elements, and no one thought of
danger u til the carpenter came to the quarter-
deck.
"Captain Maxwell," said he, in a low tone,
"thereis twofeet of rater in the well I"
"Uig the pumps-I" shouted the captain through
his trumpet, In tonesthat could be heard above
the storm. "This straining, lets ,in the water;
but bend on two.good gange to spelleach other,
and theqboxes will soon rattle."
The order-was obeyed, and the men pumped
as though their Ifes were at stake, encouraged
by the mate, who urged them with exciting cries.
Half an hour passed, and the storm seemed to in-
crease in fury, while the rain came: down in tor-
rents.
"Try the well, carpenter," daid the captain,
coiningforward from the gare-deck.
" Two feet,. three inches I" was soon the re-
port, in a low ani deppairingtone.
"Neveor mind, '9T hearties," cried the captain,
in a ehqerful .tone--for he well knew howimport-
alnt It was to, keep up the spirits of the ,rew.
"Eags thc word fr the steward to scud a bealer
of grog-hero, and let's all t&amp;e hold!V"
Midnight came-yet there was no abatement


50        T1ft 19881 tIARD MPTAI                  RSN

of the stornr1 An occasional fask of vivid light%,
ning, illu'minating the waves, sh'0ed theii huge
ersits'ldhdd into fani, whhe It was with'diffi-
culty'thit the men at the heint'ould - keep free
of the gaphig abysses5 threatening 4eAtlrieidon.
The   i 'toilediwith 'erseieryg et -natail.
Itfg inlditry, 0tlitndate  by tire diytain's pat -
suasive, yet comninainhg roi e Alexis; too;,
libored with the rest; atid, as thW stbrim bfat
upon his fevered brtiw, he hailed Its'peltihigilih
delight
Still thidepth of water itireast&amp;in the hold;
and at two inthe 'morning the-enptain fold the
carpenter to bring the axes. Givin g them'to
the didift sailors he rapidly ordei4ed
"Jain# into the Wind*ardt-riggin! Sntrbtnrd
ybtrr helth there !-tarboart !-'luff atfint--stI
Now, my lads, cut with a will!"'
An insiAt atilleed to Seve the btrainedropes ;
and the masts, snappingvith a loud repoi'till
over to leeward, making the figg' 'heel vderttd
her deeb-streak,
"Clear away !-elear away lidfy''foshorutetd
Captain MaxwelI and the' 'axt5, vigorously'
wielded dealt thick and well-directed blows,
until the masts and' rigging floated *aj, wheoi
the lugger, relieved, again floated' buAyantly.
The watkr was iw kept down' in-the-well, aid
the crew begatd congratulate li othei, when
the 4ep and sullen'rbar 'of breaksWaii heard
on either bow. Desolating soundI A moment
tudre, and the resSel sttick I
The shoek soen brought Elisa ohid6k where
a'sat' crotched by th"Ide ofg1i , refsng
the entreaties of Cagtain Mattel1,'fnd of Aex'
is, that shew4ubJld go breew.' The luggdi con-
tinuedto thfrii but not violently, ifidthebtorm
had abated in itsi fUry beVe the gray light of
nioing disclosed tlieir positi61f to tie aixionts
on6giot boar. It cane at letttlh, 't1ht wel6me
dawn, and, neai byloomed trya higirbiuff, c'b
trod with trees.'
"4e6b) is-' I live !" exeiftied' the cttbtain.
"Lower the boat, my hearties, and let 'us get a
line:is'koie there.
The boat-was lntred'n&amp; AlbiW     r     i
as it lftthe bsgge's qtsirtet, tnteSmt~n '*Cbuteei-
Ing Elissa. But., ust -ss the boat ttiched the
wti- a high      ig wkvis'*eyi'tilt the 1#  m
the reefwhllt- she had'Iy eradidedearfi y the
rofes of the bodt-falli thoih'odghhe beksi. Any
othidi-'ihonuent, and the boat *asudriftibg wide
from the lungget, carryingAlexiki1 alteeffitAttt
njonrthe 'wadtte of Wathe #

'is' fitit imptilse was to get't a pkir of oats,
but att4inptahtotMeui the waves were fruitless,
and h then aitieged' to step the rud ler.'
Throwing b mselt down in the stern of his tiiy
craft, he pnt hef before the wind, and tode Edvef
the waves with reckless indifference as to his'
destination.
Ainostevery one haS felt the iniiery of reach'
tion updn'the spirits, catsed by a conviction of
disappointment after ifrnitless endeavbrs to ob"
tain a wisbod-br~ end. Mid Albein, foiled in'his
first love ; whose honest avowal had ben'tIrated
with scorn; and ther tiarted in fis desireo'
again itscne Eh isa i-af  a *aterf griee;felt
rex-khait s to wat'inight'be his fate.
It was not long,hoWever, before he was picked
up by a TurTish fltca, on' its way to Constai-'
tineple. The cnromiander spoke no language,'
save his own, and therefore took it fot grated
that Alexis was a dreek. lie accordingly gave
ordets to hixe him hntjdctifed, and kept in the
fotecastlen-an -aibitrary decision to which no res
distance was offered. Indeed, the reactionWsi
so great that the oybttginan, enfeebled, by his
recent illness, sankinto a sort of sttipor'the tho'
ment he was rescued from     his priioi-bark'
When he awolie to reality, he bfnd hinisl- a
prisoner! ' His -themory  oftised to recall' the
past; and his' thonghtswere in confusion. All'
remembreaces of   itsinte didappoitiment and'
danger were;t fo the innent, obliterated, and a
reVulsionof felitigs almost crnzed his distracted'
brain.'
ltesbba hadhrifted etside the rdef, which
ran parallel with the coast, at a distance of'
aboit two"husldted yfrt ; but the luger Was
drawn into this' analj where a strong current'
carried  r arotud a'hedidlind before the cAptain
or crew coila-d recovertfrbn' their slirp'iSe. 'So
perilotts'wastheir condtion thit-they, then had
enough to do for self-preratirialthbugh'
CaptadtinMawell felfsad'at the thotghtof aban-
dnsing his ftik, op en hated pas enger, whose
Alteid*tfi- h had' ever'-'so' sincerely regretted.'
Elissai, holding on" by  the fragnents"-of the
shronfdt, iod'giing at the angry;rdlligwavesi
and ftt'that she-'hud, perehance, wronged the'
rebe t ohfect6t h' heaft5 iove, whe had been
so unex~ctafhlsntclted'rom their nidst.
The sw6ebs of Id M  owlphina" werestibw rtn'
out; nlshtedfnud served-te keep her midway in
the narrow  channel, between the reef anid the s
spore. The pumps kept the water from' gainind
it theliold a  everyone worked'*lth increned

rgy,  that by noon a jury-mast had been
raised, wvith a lug-sail, while the remaining rig"
ging was coiled up. Just then, the lead, which
had called " by the markseven," or "by the
deep six," suddenly failed to roach bottom,
"and fifteen' fathoms out," While the foaming
p   of breakers gradually ceased, until all was
a       aarently plain sailing.
S Huzza   shouted the captain; "we are blear
of the shore, and you 'distant headland once
rounded, weshall be in harbor! Lively at the
pumps, my heartier! Bend to the sweeps, and
the ' Dolphin' will yet weather the gale !"
'Just then a felueca came towards the island;
and the captain saw with his glass that she also
carried the flag of modem Greece. Few had yet
dared display the ensign ofGa ld   hnot yet un-
freed from the shackles of despotism and, sure
of succor, he ordered one of the guns to be
loaded with a blank cartridge, and fired  The t
signal was evie(lntly seen, for the feieca changed
her course, and bore directly towards the crippled t
"Dolphin."
Elissa had a hope, that Alexis might have
been picked up by the felucca, and stood gazing V
intently as it approached; but to her surprise, as 1
well as to her dismay, she Saw, upon the slightly-
raised quarter-deck, her unclepo"Ity
It was Miaulis, who had been to Syra before a
.going to Sci, and had been without the circle of r
thepast night's tempest. He had recognized the
"Dolphin " when his attention had been attraet'
ed by her gun; and Lavalette was rejoiced-for i
an honorable excuse to got away from his guar,
dian would now present itself.           '
"Have you picked up our boat I" shouted
Captain Maxwell through his -trumpet, as thp
two vessels approached.                     a
"No. Any one-on board ?"                  a
"Major ORloff,"                           d
Lavalette's heart sank again-forhehads
pledged himself thai the young-man should res
niama unharmed, and he trembled at the thought w
of his 10s. As if to add to his-sorrow, le sawa9
Elissa, with haggard face and an anos gaze, ws
bending over the bulwark of the disaster fe,
lugger.et
"My child ," he exclaimed, in a  almost fin- to
tic tone of voice, "when did you leave Scios"  W
grw homesick, sir,. said the captain, in

" and would come to sea with te; but I fear she
has had her fill of salt water. I have something
for your private ear, Monsieur Lavalette, but will
defer it until we are on Scio quay. Will your
captain tow us in 1"
Miaulis at once consented--for sailors, of ev-
ery grade, take great pleasure in relieving 6ach
other when distressed; and soon the two vessels
rounded- the headland into the harbor. To the
surprise of all, excepting the Greek commander,
the Turkish crescent-flag no longer floated from
the citadel-but the white cross waved in its
stead.
Good I" he cried.  There is, the fruit of the
first victory. Greece will yet bi free I"
His hardy crew took up the words, and their
eyes'glistened with joy, as they shouted:
"G reece will yet be free I"
Captain Maxwell no sooner was (ofbrmed of
this change of masters, than he fired 'a regular
salute - and, when the vessels reached the quay,
the whole population, flushed with joy, came to
welcome Miaulis. The "Dolphin" was taken
;o a spot where she could be examined at low
1ater, and Elissa once more stepped upon the
aud
This outbreak had been planned by Lavalette,
but he had no idea that it would ripen so soon,
nd he now found himself in the position of a
miner, who sees the distant end of his train ig'
mited, and is directly over .his charge. He ex-
?rossed hi intention of going with Elissa to his
Louse,but Miaulis coolly said,
"O, no! Mr, Seeretaryiu-embryo. We can,
ot lose your society. I will send Cotroni with
'our niece,"
Refusal or opposition was out of the question,
nd Lavalette went with Miaulis to the fortress,
Vhile Elisga was escorted .home. Not. many
ays had elapsed since she had left, and yet it
eemed an ageI She felt humiliated--debased
-and yet, occasionally,a comforting hope would
arn, her that she might have misconstrued what,
he had taken offence-at. No, noI his meaning
as . too plain ! And yet, while her outraged
clings revoltd 'at the thought, her heart turned
wards him- as the fabulous sun-flower turned
wards the orb of light. Ed he peris A?---or
ould he yet itand before her, purfie of gross
tent, freed from unholy thought I

THE RUSSIANGUARDSMAlf.              61


, CH1APTERt .XL.
0, woman, all must own thy magic powellh
Tie sterni seges at thy 6itar kneel;
And, from the-natal to the ual hour,'
Before thy beauty bend, and deeply feel
The essencefro on high. *'Though skies insy loer,
And earth and heaven conspire against his weal-
Alike unchanged by haphness or grief,
Men ever from thy soothing finds rellef,.

IMPERIAL   CONSTANTINOPLE!     Surrounded
by what is uest enchanting in nature ; adorned
with what is most interesting in art ; hallowed
by traditions, of unequalled historical interest;
she sits in peeress majesty upon-her eceat-laved
throne.. - Queen of cities, she has -in turn upheld
the Barbarian, the Christian, and the Moslem
rule; and now, in' the fifteenth century of her
glory, her seven hills support the very personi-
fication of Oriental despotism. From the taper-
ing minarets, where Constantine first unfurled
the banner of: the cross,' is now hourly heard the
impressive cry' of the iifidels "There is but
one God, sad Mahomet is his prophet"  Where
vestals-oace trimmed the ever-burning lamps on
heathen- shrines, -gilded domes rise mysteriously-
from thick groves,-fit nests for eureffally-guarded,
Circassian birds of beautf. The blood-stained
battlements of the Seven-Towers have resisted
the gnawing tooth of time, and- the old vall yet
girdles  the city like a crest of glory, its massive
height reflected in the glassy mirror of the deep-,--
that grave of mayriads who have dared to love.
Far away stretches the Bosphorus, its blue tide
dividing the shadowy mountain slopes of Europe
and of Asia, clothed to the water-sides with for-
ests, palaces, gardens and fortresses. Opposite
is Scutari, rich in barracks and in burial-grounds,
behind which the dim Blue Mountains extend in

an undulating lie!; and, at times, the vision of
Mounrt Olympus is unfolded,- its icy summit
blending with the clear blue -sky. Neither must
Pera be forgotten) eloquent with diplomatic resi-
deuces; or' Galata, redolent of commeteil'
,wealth; or the Golden Horn) 'dappled with  its
ever-varying fleet. And over 'everythulig-'on
land and on the water-there hangs a shadowy
'veil of mysticism,.-wenbhanting,'yet awful,-.that
can but make the scene one of intense interest,
The expanding mind plunges deep into the   trl
ditiens that invest every dome and miiaret, ev-
ery palace and tower. Generation after genera-
tion, creed after creed, sweep rapidly past upon
the track of memory, but the back-groind is eVdr
the same. Refined magnificence, rude power,
And bigoted cruelty, fuirnish their rapid illustra-
tions to each change that fancy pictures) in con,
juring up past periodsof splendor, chivalry and
barbarism, Ages, dark and bright, are before
us. The thirsty imagination drinks in the broad
stream of history, or pierces for some hidden
spring of romance that bubbles forth on the
shores of the Propontis.
The seraglio occupies the very focus of' this
enchanting scene, rising, like a dream, upon the
extreme point of the peninsula, which stretches
boldly oflt into the silvery tide. Ii is a confused
mass of buildings, clustered together likea bunh

'T1'SCz  M~8~~AR         IIJ

" ,AgiPO, 14oft ifferetstylks oftehiteture
OV40u1 bl90ning with   ragroses,:Airo, n
teon th idesenext to theiity, whete anyrtles
a!aphPlm an  d ;cyp'eausi Atertwine their
foagmA   tq exclude curiots ggainge anath
suB'A -rays.,t  own, the dwateti s-edge, the win
dows overhang the   rertIoaediag thp fi
prs ers ipavonstanviewof the never-eudino
panorama.      seiX4  0 f 9, vay iesiptione aa
topnage pass :,41 epP (1frnt the barbarous
graio-egrner, 1angbedrat the monith!f the KMile
to the-trim toppiof warrfr omthe Thaglish dock
yards. !'Caqies" an4: *fidangists &amp; he
throught;this deetdistirbing the snowyealbatrEs,
es, whorbe-iq cloudsand diesedithplg
that uahkes, erstrangerstart withthe gpuiehe
sien that sqm- sp4ed bauty, ,a s4dunk  t
oblivion.
A the w*ndqW off hepincipalt apareatthas
.     .eroal ing -the 3ophq   atthert*ipe  ere
we write, sat the sultana, Zalallah, the favorite
of XOioir lordf; this 'terrestrial paradise
ThQ warpl s##nshin amo eross frogthe wg
ing Thracian   9     s 9Nting Satari deej
into the shade of her glopniy cypesse4, nd
Iighting, up~the" .radiant lue w4tir ,are i st'le
mellowly thr6ughthegl4e4 lttigas  Nver:44
sunlight display moreefinede gorgepusi4m 9
style, theunitebeamsglance4.- frowini ,4   s
raglio shrine.  Luxurious, wide drans ex'
tended all-around, eXcepting athe e'e
and on them were pilps .of.softr -cshiensrd
of heavy shawls, The #oor yas fe sosyd
"rble,, en whih were smpyn   ejiapltsi
and, ai the centre, was an alaAster etain,
which, sent up its, tny jets arou-ad ga of
gilded wis,                     t qewhichimba  mhse night
ingales of: te 'Qient-warblod-, eir tende
nooe;a while, i  the hbsi  beae, ;gold-fsh
sportd inthoir native element,  lithisAidh
the painted dome, and the gilded arahengeqson
the' wils;i .  wothy the eigaffuleyin#i,
the:Mgae4t;; butthetema.ning      tp ts de-
note      te     o Weefore     ep    449
ing-glasses- were on the walls; and on a.
table, Aear *e4ivap, were pileseof p~pprs, bppor,
and, af#mting-desk. Indeed,this pao of    9 th
officeeemedthe lk the "4ceofte ga#
private  cAhe smptuos apartment
of hit faveriter -s~tuw.     ,
ahw o i  Stralgeto'sayher away
wasaet the wnyof pssiMIs ipthat eym ouw
aryof daileptno.Isaese,  g 0tA  entVvfsai
sempi- iiarered, When Mat46uslumAjW
4

1 hev-,yearhlene     wa   ne     ty
di~ iorsair'to sQie -marketa proyrtTOIer wA
,; hataeptan4  itgel~glnne~rnhj a~~
eyrseitpired thesatiatkd, InQEgach withak igev
'seni-.respeatfIft eame like ako fuf mqWjugiet
pra water-fallato athirsty' belle I.fluig.I;
r -sonlofr him  who laldundertak'a w*
g patiotawish acotrllidginBuecer and thidnighti
ddhelz wieepinagleaptivo wdlt aardedito tie erbgibp"
At frs the fea of a revoltin'gfatl gave e';
g natu ei x'presion to" her 'surb-fektto"-W
she had managedto secrete fapoigaid:Whfiidd
t- board the torsair, anawould have-yod±ed birth
-ierlife-blood rather thau tohtamuit6ih*,jt,
e-:4proach, ominglid with her emeinbitndesrI
der Malteseihme;;dddedtthe 'tiigtgepg
' sorrow and'moritMh passed eretthsIalimo hei
smile4 i At last; however 1he-appreclatedili
4e-votlon,;and was able o it dersad 'his 4fte* I
if 'tbat sleMwould behis 'friendphii adviser is l6
great reform 'which he-hadr projeted." Uflegg aMi
-#ew existence opened befowher ISe
-*hm;translated the JournalofgEropsane
tpon'Mailitary and civi . gle in'moeoitid
16ids. ,Glaay appriatinghis briiiantgIt
a'd ennarsblbd by the delicatbe respect with
he treated hershe loved hin4iafiinld deved
tion.; and he sought not -t asollyo sug 'gighe
-chains. Very other human beag' in thecae
glio,'as 'he "tel -knew, were 4laves to fdi  ilig
Consciously or uncensciously, AI loe or n  adp'1
theylhad relinquished allindivMuality to oeoibly1a
'the impress of his masterspirit. u a
retained' her originality #of thoitght, instaadiolf
nierely rejecting the ideas of the sultan, und'skid
ie mates of theseraglio knewths she 'wathe
only one that cold influencehim. With-thanl
he ever iudlged iaany fa atity, ir sugbe
to take advAntageof her- ovuitioti and iltaws
the oinionOf, evety odalique ahd ilbjatdk 4   '"
4E-"th.it her heart hawomkly a"ej1ytijwv
were like theslvery iavedofafountaln iIbd-Ize
iat Wiata%.. ealed with ioe.  ": , ,  d -t
Zilama ,asdaited 'at the WiHdow her ,ga e
Aiod 4owards.the straits f thetBosphio   ds. q
in eguIctatiiono-fet her4houights .wdteA#&amp;;ig
waqy anfshe was;  teve ing: ilk. Idi4aydVa1 "Wom
:hapy intstourse rith en 'who'94ssas  Ei'
Ore!ftWislo    Hek. liggy
told of.fW'smeibtiiupast, yetitime a'see
had man bat a slight imi ~sieon tiheCijl
f ihel-youthc"Dresaedi 'the Orientrgad  qi
snhwye tesoftheiseitraishee sha    V f
'*icb'hdkather thaeoicoeiled hertsyimeg


pre~Y~u~g~  ~ezk~ligktly'Atting.-Ve4
f~m           )IMM lib~i.withP
e~hhwor oi -1gathredi# andjedupf
aa~i I~ t~j' aslin  mphfolds urou4 hera
41d a~i  per~scon~ne~i5a1Uutiant,
teith~aiW V  4 whib    egeealdbd faw,
tq  wm vs~le iii he inpolaug agnityOf,'her
ID4SP a~~ith~ rapid plsiofa Mrmsce
ROaWP Ofan ire5QltIw heart."
6Ma.SWK(I lWhThe havy! sound, of .esu
capxning adownla the ;Deephorus, At4 soon
fr~the,,x~oke~nd fashet of"teeliigft
To*a ies       tmm    nvWafother nam"
tjowaib)xd)f tesoe    j piu   On camel
~~vg~atto~~auewburst-intd tlrrifiea
Jif~~nin ~othyolnamea of WgaA~e""eaop
r  000~rke. and enshing sound. a The vteryrir
reoit Ialy*ofor eehafwtres and vtes*itl,but
We,&amp;~; eo          t.,bez the tnp..
o  efrlWOt$# &amp;asu in itaaui b
'of           AOw)ni%-diwiy':*r#i the'le
..(~~aA fowp~tIld MOrOof Atbtr
their midst., when the, ohrou&amp;s'-swafmedAWih-
m*ho Aha iY~dogwhileaatthea Midg.
sal*    aw8 f eertglio~l nsna nd 8-ultaamah4 b
moV# Ai&amp;#q~lduCA tae 4dpreseutin-armf-
3 wmaw5s~oefl,,those sek*,audI dh3Uit-.
~~ibya~ttractthe-Ahonag
of IIIaB;a           amauhsaso*

lovedsspri      e)asstfla        lelkin
aqxilne1eo~kshadedebis- keen fgi~yeyeVsjhAbv,
fkadhddf -fire w- ~sa~   is     wex   bsbodaed
There vwas ~oViriitees , ~    eaua
as 'he  pbsp i t k ghWlte uftsilof ils" eetnglio
Wg$III t sweet tll shtnhifartedi
lii~qw;aooee {eo~ld-haift thhtight that he6&amp;
jhoeonqts~roi~jo1?thf6Amatie ~afizaAes, thoe&amp;
bi bfl -ksflie -~tdidhf&amp;Uto 'ChstIiy
- w'vsti~kfii-igtbtridt! wWththe,.  etw  rienti
1"ibeeilifi ofili *4cei brs., lh: alitedthe Aiig-
fifie bibaritiets ef ,;aUj1utiiathe -ip1e  dfso
1Pg9d jsf 1&amp;rbitt'h fifrottO-hbio&amp;
'oici~fVtiftO, *whie he ~eIriAted those of, hi5
own, era who ruled civilized people.
gWemiI, ektebimed,, -all h-, M heenteis
i d'helf -,Atttb~nt  ad he t0ent io iiktlhlfgaap0
and-erod
"1 am agla&amp; t-be here~  gan  iief i
lei"hb iepid, aigotdiei*ith iiritiln'
fofr-the*b. -been a edioWs inemie
"aNoabadneals, h
ifNot 'exaetlyiad 4but-the:Greeks  ha;"oOoPel
uinfdltIO&amp;eirf f.-ib bllioi axd t~enat
ba mpt stqtto6it at oiuke- Thn6 6rdet,a are is- l
sfiea xio* ,aidctheil66t *isalto-morr6w."
"T  tens   *fh-ir t  ti 6ift 41- a
TWYhif, gs tmiAW,4Za1iillh ie54.oner hekz;&amp;,
(thig,a ifi i ith~w it tteing  bref cry, sks
faffited,1Malingkf6 the grounidi. IRisng heir with
1ibath&amp;Ia herabiitrin iifehead-*Iihwtelf1nith
foutntt-iiu. Seen eh,6openued h,&amp;' eyes, iiadgaued-
anmllisly aio~ud, ag' ifl.awakeuigfrIt
,  "e-1WhuA   th -eiiUad dth6 Vst-14f ZalaHNt!'I
Is6ddniidI the'4xic~nted, ii
en  aaf     46ke',4an&amp;Ai~~~I      fti
"rshltan , Mhei  JliI", iighe a~uid, hor aeut
~sli ceEI4n~t endais  irg  4 t t t i a
~'Why  this interest i* Scio~f4:1&amp;ikeiL
a 6J~"ho tbi ftsazifghi  tfPh dl-;h
~~~he ~        dw.     -Ue*l ij k'th -f~t~f~~dit

,.,~ 6 AN i~D~4

"B   theProphet'       e "   e     ed       "   y friend," said the sulta  of
sultnupacm  theVAP 91  iaa ave ya 1reeer me nothing          e nkf~itae*.n w
given ad tyeIhat aove you 1iU a" Io                "   Ishe  n ytexclair ed  '  oN
Yo,"       avn                             Xlbl,       b  you,
Arms         1           fa ne       kn a,   o'ryIassa
and     a   e   s r h1     to   e sppwere     "AyZalah.        ar            e
his awpgd  sua               a     e  ati      y     a  thfi*    b   se e
eyes glounedaon e         cal   unP tenan aaaMired'shows he a  aa   t.ap  a  mirae  nu
"Deceive you, my lo    Give mylove to an-  aso                            d 1n. orpet  or i
other P" she ekelaimed, springing to her feet, her he hyaouir chl a Nuian guardiaii6
cheeks crimson and her eyes flashing witheffend- me of your correspondence-thinking, doubtless,
ed. pride. But the next moment she sank upon that he would be ordered to sew you up alive in
her knees, saying, in a hurried tone: "Yes, a sack, and plunge yot into the deep Bosphorus,
another hat my love.-but hear me. It is," she to'expiate your crime. But I determined to be
added, raising her clasped hands, "a girl that I sure, and ordered your tempter to appear before
love-a pure, sinless being; ay, it is my own me. Cringing to the very ground, he Avowed
child; my daughter!"                        all--nay, he offered to place your child at my
"Your daughter"     '             ,       disposal. Had I'not needed his services, and
"Yes, my daughter. Hiqur ie, my lord, and thought, that through him I could add to your
then do with me as you will. I have told you happiness, I would have had him strangled on
-often, how, beguiled by fair words, I fled from' the- spot. But I thought of you,.and forbore.
my husband's house at Valetta, with one who Your daughter, lovely as yourself, has beei care-
had won my affections. Scarcely had the towers fully watched and-guarded by a book-keeper in
of Valetta faded in the distance, when a corsair, the Russian consulate. Atid when he bought a
hovering around for prey, carried the vessel by house at Scio, orders went thither to respect its
storm, and we were separated. This you know  inmates."
--nay, you have, at my request, advanced my   " Generous, noble-hearted lord," cried Zalal-
betrayer in your service, as a man of that des- lah, in a voice nearly choked by emotion; "what
perate character you need, in order to discipline return can I make you ?"
your trained forces-"                   -   "None, save your friendship. The world talks
"Can it be I" interrupted the sultan. of  ny reforms, of the civilizing effects of my
r "Not possibleI No, not possible, my lord.. government, and of the national progress. Little
Have patience. All this you have known; but dream they that you aire the cause! That pure
i have never told you that in my guilty flight'I loveafor you, based upon respect, has moved me
left an infWant daughter-an angelic babe, whose forward in my work, and that your smile has
bright smile has haunted my every thoughtI been my approval. But see !     You felace&amp;,


44 4)

* jr4 '~'

'44

4        4                              4
4                                                "'                      4         444,4
4            ~4~4              4~4                *44'A       44          4444'
4       ,'    ,                   4            444
4 44   '4      4   '.414       4'I4'j~       4        '4
44        , 4'          ,    4    '   4    44444   1      ~         '

4             4       44

0

I'

CHAPTER XI.

"41ternal Hope. Wheyonder sphewssbibne
Mled their first notsto sound the'niarch of time,
Thy Joyous youth began, bit si6t Sb f,'
Whem n l Sy Ms ei- p1iais~4~
When wrapt in     ,the odfehr glow
And Heavels last thunder shsfltheweta beiow,
Tou   nIisd6ayed 's  t er the ruins smile,
Andlight thy tor        I t nature'sfunerat pie.)

. Buxaisdsi No sooner was the horizon bright
with a beAcon streak of gold) than the' morning-
gun boomed from' the Seraskier's tower, and was
echoed by reports from the arsenal, and from the
forts on4 the Bosphorus. Muezsins, from' the
galleries of scores' of taper minarets, proclaimed
the hour of matin prayer; ;also a signal to the
army of night-howling dogs that the charitable
were ready to feed them at their doors. Stars
yet .ikered, andthe gray mist of the isorning
hang upon the bosomof-the-quiet tide of the.
Golden Horn, while the seraglio slumbered amiid
its dark grves.: A few moments mote, and'the
red orb eamelroudly forth f&amp;om his gorgeous
eoiacho;, the dome of:Saint Sophia's fane
glowed with light the long arcades of ;ancient?
aquedutts, And the moderit gilded fountains re-
flected theorising beams ; and the manyWindows
of Tera'a, diplomatie palaces washed like fire,;
Faintly across theBosphorns Came the inspiring
reved&amp;,fromScutari's barrackdrums) and-..as,
if by magie--mostinesud paldees, shipping and
kiosques,gardens and groves, weie illuminated'
with the gorgibus radiance of a -new-born~ddy.
The dik'clodds-of'night; hovering lastiupon the
water, roled awayin sulle'nmajesty up the-V.a-
leyof S*eet Waters,4and .the immense pity whse
ei tixitly visible. msokeeairld from the chisp
ney-tops; the busy hurp of industry resounded;

and comnieree' moved upon the harbor.' c.-
stantinople was awake I'
But the clouds of sorrow yet Qbcured the hap-
piness of the sultana, as sh6 rose from her sleep-
less couch, nor did the. sunlightof golden hope
light up the night 9f her head. hAlmost upi-
fled withrf, she 'sat in her  al-roon, while
her attendant odalisques dressed hr .hair and
arranged her toilet; but she was Iaierent to
their attentions. 'The :image pf her lpng lost
cild was ever before her, andlion; ger she was
attired, she sat"Wiith droopinghead, in a pensive
attude. A sive b    ghtheranornmg repast,
but she turned from4 the dainty-laden tr with
disgust. .Then, rising, she walked into .t1&amp;,a-
oon, and seated herself at her favorite window..,.
where we fr-t intia4ed her,; but iblankwall
could not have possessed less p wer p exciting
the gens ,of pleasure in her fevered, brain than
did tat lovely i  'eape, pread oni t lore lIr
vis o. Her heart was, paralyzdds%, and
very _object before her seemed covpree with a
She-was aroused frofn her reverie by a'Nybfan
guarpbw, who cms timidly to the window.
holding his arms, as h4 stopped before her, he
mnade a profound reverence.
"Speak." And so' languidly was the word

~~~14


.58

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.

uttered that an automaton might have uttered
it; neither did she even raise her eyes.
"Sultana," said the guardian, "here is a pe-
tition from an infidel, in the slave-market, to
our mighty lord, Mahmoud. He bade me hand
it to you, and announce his visit."  ,
Zalallah appeared neither to hearnor to heed
the message, and the guardian stood, holding a
folded paper. All at once, as if awakening from
a trance, she took the petition, and the slave
withdrew. It was directed in a coarse hind to
the sultan; nor was it without a feeling of dis-
gust that she opened the greasy folds. But no
sooner did she peruse the first line than-with
eager eyes she devoured the remainder. A rav-
enous appetite for news of her lost daughter
gave her a mental gluttony, as she repad
read these few words:
"Mzwr SULTAN :-Alexis Orloff, a major
in the Imperial Guard of Russiul  -nd
the emperor's consul, at Smyrna, iNPaccnt
into the hands ofa corsair. He is now
in the slave-market, and demands h  libelty. -
"Orloff," repeated the sultana, "Orofft It is
the young officer who was the companion of my
i4ssa t ,  he is in the sjaye-rsarket, 0 what
must be her fate" And,!as she sohlqui*ed,
tearp broke forth afresh; but the last word had
s.     %iLitA    Theri a deep, manly voice
I    alallah saW the  ita o,    ad
,tefe6,h"and'st6od                 at he-

wit-iscVO1'k f ist niiopleIan1
asks a*'pretext to send the sons of their det
s6W6I at see him4" aiked Z ahllah''4h,'
anxiouet- 0 lq
"Ay, if thou wilt. Mygl64 for you ig not lhi

passion of a moment, swayed by every fancied
breath of jealousy, but a firm friendship, based
upon a sincere respect. See the young man,
and, if he: has married your daughter, I will
provide her a dowry such as few Christian prin-
ces give their daughters."-
,"-Noblest, best of sovereigns-ay, of men I"
-exclaimed the delighted sultana. "For me you
have broken through ,all the trammels of cus-
tom; all the prejudices of your creed; and now
you seek to fill my cup of happiness to the brim."
"Nay, the obligation.is mine. Not only have
you been the truest and best of interpreters, but
you have displayed an interest in my prosperity
which has had the appearance of sincerity-a
rarity even in this seraglio, where the world
t s Yreything desirable is tp be found. No
more of this now, though, for I know you are all
impatience to see this young man."-
No sooner had #e sultan finished speaking,
than hedipped his hands thrice. A guardian
na ed      anl stood before him with
!U6red head d
hAe a        , to the slave-market, and find
aryodidginau    ssian, brought there by a cor-
sair. Purchase him at the price demanded ; but
tell the rover that if he lisps a word- bouteusis
illegal prise, he will find a bow-string'abouthis
neck within a:iooW. .Tikethe young man to
m3y pavilion at- the wate-'sedge,, and aid hiniina
his, toilet, taking what ,e  ayneleet from my
disguises there.- Some'of the Greek dresses will,
fit ii,t ifynthing else will." -
Theguardian- made a aute reverence, and
withdrew.
"J;ow,' continued the sultan, "I will leave
you. Here is thekey.to therprivate stuiresae,
,d sidlay you be pleased withlybur-sod4u'laW."
:Ie left the-room as he ceased speaking, leaving
Zalaflah-in joyful'anticipation. ut some 4emon
whispetedgo'bera dottbt as to thed pulityrof the,
connectiou between this young uia hand he,
daughtorA  'What,'" she asskedberbelf, jha&amp;led,
the girlto:meet hint atSmyrnaT" IFEdr mo-
OM allIher hopest vanishedi and-si#e w#aaugita"
tedb~y :   isatiablenthlisti$rd'evenge. Thens.
nefinten~se ,pityr--thed hetibherdaughter.
And theng *itih the phangeaxbenessi4se' 5ws,
shefende  red to banishkstch muyideasisand
~o lokupon the young nmtitwasdlipsa'e friesad-
$utmingfher fttendent§sisheoiderbd thebi-th
eedressiitheEhropban style4fornho
nly adopted ;the Oriental garb .i MahMlouds
requtto aveid jdalous in he -Haesa,da&amp; al- .

TETSSNA OUARlPSMA.

-jyskept, a: sinall'wardtobe iofmore- civilized
ltwas Alexis O4off whohn&amp;sent the petitions
although few of si old aquintances would
have recognizedthe once ; dashing guardsman
in-the occupant: of that dirty cell; in the-slave-
rav4et at Constati~ple. Nor hadhe been fully
conscious of his situation until the day before,
when a regitOent, on its: way -to paradein the
Hippodrome, passed by the place of his captivity;
with a . fe band. The familiar-sounds- roustd
the yourig soldier's 'artial ,pride; hisfiushtd-
cheek became ashy pale; and intelligence once
more gleamed on. his wan features, Redalling
the circumstances of his peril, of his ~ca'pttre;y
aAl of hi present- ituation, che-was hesitating
whet steps' to take,, when a-Greek ditered;with.
his .dinner--a greasy -wooden-boWl 1f1edJwithi
boiled-rice. The revolting food roused the young
ni4 to the necessity of extricating himself from
his position.,
"Tell me," he a0kkd, "why am I confined,
here'?"V
4" Becauee," replied the Greek,in a pullenstbne,
"a Turk picked you upat sea,.and wishestesell
you to some one it Asia Minor.. Wd, Greeks,
.know full well'that .here 'might makes right.'
You will find it out."-
"But I am a Russian-a Russian officer."
"Never mind. Your purchaser will obtain a
ransom foi you, -and that is what you Will e
ought for.",
" This is - outrageous. Canyou- not take a
message to the Russian ambassador?  See,'her
is a ring that has escaped the ndtice of' y cap-
tors-take the message, andit aihdl'be yoir."d
ItWas a diamond, and th'e poor Gk' 'eyed
it Vith wishful eyes.
"No,-no," he at length replied,' I dare not.
But letan do lfor you what I did 'for a"yotin
Pole, last'y6ar, who was in your present plight."
"And thitis" -n
S'c can give you writing materials, and You.
can draw up a petition to th 'u1tAi  hkhI my
wife     hand   linm the ni6rning as he goe t'o
his bath."
surelyly, -he *ill not 'dare rtai te,' sid
Alexis. "Bring the jsen and 'de     oo1
fellow, and the ring is yours."
The man left; but within an hour he returned
with wretched writing apparatus, and the docu-
ment was sent, whose receipt we have described.
Every moment now seemed an age, and Alexis
was all the while a victim to bewildering yet sad

AM

thonghtsi Fate-appeated t1 h4e ku6eWedtill
pathway, onde ' sd ibi~ht, ' hile eveiyoy MR
withered-like theInurdMnebenehlchild
Prophet -sat, and- passed aaylike'  rME
Aabitionloee;4appesalleftbledqMIs
out alloy,-had faded away; And trdule1M
current poured like  wirtef-'s fiedd fifrMiglfBhf
brain' Then eame-stealiag back, unbiddndffdM
noiselessa -l  a dreamntheholinessof hisI89
and hia proud heart trembled'as -he faethdfi
how he had been repulsed-misunderstood.MitEal
crane-aptehnstions or lissa's safety ;$Atrfiis-
Ifindfather; and -it was late,'before diee, 6
utiveekal coifotter, enfolded han in hes behalf
At was late -the next rhpsoriing wihd 'l
a*Irke, aid hefbtid his JAenttli  tvi idta1
by the night's rest. The -Greek assuetiW fif
that his wif6 had hnifedthelpetitoi to tfsib sl-
tan-nor Was it'long after, as Alexis ysiitlk
frottheid windoiitothe cotirt-yard 4 th AiW-
ot, that he 'e ied 't unwinal -coitanotion.
t .as caused ' b te rrvtlof Mustapha, 'WfAu
the well-known household dress of the S'isIW.
and-the dealerafiocked arovkud him. Ore oFdred
some gtelle-eyed hourisfroiMCircssia fhiilef
had- slaves from Nubia; and others'edlk tid
either sex. But the guardian, so 6bsequiduhf'st
before when in the pr'dseneeef'the sadhnA  *iiv
them  away with an impertlliadi  itire iiidfde-
inSided the,-&amp;wner of the young Itisgffilef d
up at sea. Half in hour-more, and Ale h'*tad
in the seraglio, putting on a becoming 9etk
costume, which he selected fromia' arArobekppt
by the sultan for thosO nocturnal exeuesio is -1
which Oriental ruler diulge.
The guardian was apparently well sat6 4
with the striking change initl pe rsdpdiaIr
ance of his purchase and after the toilet wa
conipileted, u ieil him into a strau hre 1c
realized the brightest dreAms of OrientAlsl i
dor. It was a lage "ir;ular pavillonitlwal
of the purest marble, sumo sited by  &amp;"
dome, and having two imrhnse wind W0, oppa  -
ing upon the  yos"horul. A wit6;mai     -
tai in the'centre thr-ew its'  athef ?
'up thirds the doe andl the sll"
Into a large, deep basin, in h      t
apd silver ftshes. Arund the fblnifi ti''il ,
space for a walk interveniig, was a iick row
of gigantic orange-trees, mixed with large ca-
melia'bushes-the golden fruit and Irerdant foli-
age of the former contrasting beautifully with
the rich clusters of waxen flowers, of every color,

a


a0

ing  wra     yW#d~m~itl, vasiegatedern
Qekrdeilevtryociabead       sopa
tA1piggh       jeo~haoviag y *  lmongpu
vN   IMpa y*   gtatiOW in RgreefnL. fla
1VIAbfy    hpjiunh4edsseomnd the trains.
pgeegs   veo,fromakieagain theywfloated in
misglI Masse- , 'wa in theisoftppefmnded
a tj- todial  Alpy togd  ance4
eg opegg~r~ gi#w#, gag5ingltergTel~yon
4Mseeie thout 414d #al.ovglinas~ within,,
while the odor of the flowers cast a sort of sqi-
0"4pyve him eses.    heustipg ofjk
Ibtpbforei-             iea
41T cngratulate Mjor, OrDo op 14 hease
p   y   saiL she, with -ale lijse the
gpfuI~   oon ripig sfra tbee  in gdylrh
ns herripe, heauty2i&amp;ashed bQforO]
Aggg tppght that 'the features wefyrgiaz
h 41 W.
-ga,"p4 the justice of the suten-Arim
tq  g hp is ny Aliverer; and ,tught '!
o~qwiU~  ea hi  now  Tell rae pirn,"
9      s   p's o   trembled, ".do you know
a   M pprg8y lsspf"           2
bil@$uI9    riglght the blog tingling I'
therg 'V"4 c1eCs4andhe replied, with a
ena~['~   that she--"
ae' interrupted Zalalah;
"t we  a        *ve hpard . trage news abop her

g           e claimed, 4lot. I have
aie o

lie:aithpte        aneclaraation: of4oy
from Alexis-for while she spoke the "NiedIi"
raOerusm the Sedigli~ohdia, idei' eaty lail,
Mid rounded toiopposiistheiia4iioti. The weiltl
know. fogxn oteCoptain Poskiwitsch and his
offierswesre tsls withitvgan-ahot, uajoyful
sigh-tIe;*6 ad is griddluther on the idater-
4eeki!9
I mustgo,"he exclaimed. "There are my
friends4"
IStay, Imbeseech you," entreated' Zalallah.
"Here' isapurse dontainig- gems of high.
:WWoutan, interrupted Alexis, "9I scoin your
wealth!"
-The sene wis one which only an-artist ean
descriWe. .The'sultAna, fond, dotink mother
hadrhd   dioedthe' neks of making her daughter
happy; ahd was 'ab6t to entrust it to a young
manwhselok was evidence of his honor, and
whose manner showed his interest in the"idol of
lier-eart.I But he, sfterli-ny irrcomprehensible
adventures, had so completely misunderstood her
that he'iinaginea lier 'a di'ecaied favorite,'in all
probability seeking'to purchase his 1oye.' For a
moment thie was 4:deadsilence-the one stil.
proft'ring her parse-the-other refusing it with'
scorn.
{esk1rOnAVyrNG.J
a#q lo u1g at the shipAlexis saw the cap-
tain descend her side, and enter his cutter) which
pty, Mto pds the seraglio. :.Another
gl~nte showe4~int that-tie windows of the pa-
vilipu,,whieg wer hinged ,like doors, were only
fastenedj y commqrbolts within  -
~eeM    anu~puers, madame,",he ezcIAimed,
for one whose heart is in the market!" AndAu4
a Moment.he had passed through 2the window
ang4eaehed the vay as the "Nicolai's "cutter
pasaedclose }y.-so closehat with abound
he spring into the steiR sheets, crying:
" To the ,iip-      the ship.1 PuRl for your
liveg, -en, a4tOns sav mne 1" a
Ther9 wasa ruh of the guard to the quayi
put they dared not fire on a man-of-war's boat;
And soonlexsagapin#od the;eckof the 9io-
olai" ensatygdang      folded in his grAnd -
father's arms.

2 d2      2 2 ' '2  2
r  r''   2 2  2  2

'I'

I,

D15SAP2POINTED VILLAxY I Lavaltie'in fact
a prisoner, paced his root uinthe citadel'of'Scio,
a prey to utter wretchedneds-tor his tuition
has been recognized by the ablesi defirneitor of
human passions as the inost miserable that"it is
possible to conceive.' Tortured in soul, h aked
the floor-oflhis rootn like a tiger ii his 6agei with'
coipressed lips and contracted eye-b-ows. 'His*
-bloodshot index eyes glowed 'ii their sockets,
with a uniiatural wildiess' 'and,Odccasionally,
he would stop before a window, to lbw&amp;r forth',
as if' looking for'a dliiete.' But helooked in"
vainIT1e 0 Dolphi' "had 'been 'taken around.
to the other iaide of the' island' far'fepar, and
theonly sirange vesselsin th' harbor,'ere the
Sarniote-felecas, which id brought the revolu-
tionsts., Mianlis'hid lit tV'cariy' the tidings of
Scie'siideyendence to her sister isles.
Neither was Elissa happy.' Whether strolling
by day throeghh the hedtifttl g  lrdensIof her-sol-
tiry residenee; or sitting late thtthe night at
the'window ohe-loo'king 'the baf,-her thoughtss
would eifrreertto Ale*is. Intoitly w6uld: She
gate through'a glass at thedeck'of  ryheue
that 'entered theoharbor, vaiasl"y hopiigto 'seAiis
manly foir--and; thenwh6' diskpingted, sis
would reproach hersel with' hof treatmhit of
hi th Afeaf 'that she hadmislnderstdod him
gradually ripened into a certointy-and thon.

I

2       2  1'

2' 2
2                         2    2                2          2
2     2  2                     2  2    2

came thehorrible Idea ttmaddened with the
sting-d'oherreprbAeh;'he had soughhld4th. "  e's
voice; so sweet 'and so ,truthful,'chded'hiher'-
ears, And'hisiepi-dachful look When shihbted
the purity of his intentidn' haunted her ren6rf.
Could she bitsee him once-'gait,ishefiihg lit;
and but hear bi nasaneO that hemea6I notfe
sully he'Sepotless 'ame, happiness dhldagain
be her-lot.  Thi4 W'&amp; her 'onlyhopin the arly
solae' fOr her 'aching heart, &amp;eji'hi   die
reheatsed, over nhidlover again, the swest mrim
ries'of he transient 'enjoyment.' is 'evcfy2kn&amp;d
wotd hnd' look" 'bisgallant yene'of hekinle
6i-y 'inehitdrof their brief interrourse w Ae 1I
twra brougk't up'by'the [magie lantein of .edf-
e6tion." Alas! each' scene vanishedas It cane
ledvi  hef sad in herioneiness.
The,'sotnds of constiait rjoicing, 'dung ih
day and evening, came floating l l the  8daifr
from the tbwn-for the cidtes'gavefihlaed
up to refelry, thinking 'little of a t '"vi
tune.' Nuptials'were eelebrated wit! meidad
song'; the merry'da&amp;eers wove the"fieY ffiures
to the sound of the viol and tamboAnn 2ihh
werb slanghtered-for free' banq'nets  kad 'he
cedehses "were- crowded   t6oeveiAflowil
Long 'b6wed beneath the Tuakish yoke, 'Wdde'
seanidants'of Socrates and Theistobles lit'l5'
all-foretholught f and, instead of preparing to te-

CHAPTER XIII
"We bar swomr bytovs contry'AA*Wter,
'iy the virpns they've  dragged from oar altars,.
y ur m ace  rtrlt  r e ndiasIn  e m
That i vlw ,-e  a shabn victoridus
Or tha-  d g odiraeaths shanbe glorious"

I e

m-w- -Sul ISLAM  lovkummw


THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.

tain their independence by erecting fortifications
they abandoned themselves to pleasure. No oth-
or modern nation possesses such volatility and
buoyancy of spirits-traits of characters which,
perhaps, alone kept -them from  self-destructjon
during their long oppression. The same feeling
--if we may believe those who know them best-
never reigns long at a time -in the bosom of-a
modern Greek. Sadness will vanish in a mo-
ment, and the most melancholy events leave but
a transitory impression-on the mercurial surface
of their temperament, which is no sooner ruffled
by some external movement than it smothers
itself by its own elasticity. Tears with them are
but the dewdrops that form the rainbow of hope
when struck by the after sunshine of smiling
gayety; and now that the veil of Moslem terror
was momentarily drawn away, all 4 _d4ne
themselves to revelry and mirth.
A fortnight passed, and the Greeks flattered'
themselves that all danger was oer   ielis
say's hopes of again seeing,  wlkg7aW   h,
One cloudless night, she reW1fledsesited atsih6
window long Aler the sound of merrimeatinthe
town had died away. The moon rode high in
tt   9evessI%#g Afryay    tsha4ofrilege
dTgegggehq ghgbpt a eye4p and fro inth
uppZlsstigig her palid constegance with,
aiggrylusgg, asa#e geSp      forth uponthe
w t4 ghe Atsytq~d yeeaed (rnu her
s      gig       gd,     ene4meda
1%rgsigggnggg    ads ligMeiA
'i    l i o~ usig~ npwe.wfpphwievri
b          14rp4ggel hameg     ggitehy
har,4f its        y mapt taa  p    wit h
thgW(ahe      9f cp     0aM, looing.erup 14t,
the  yU4 sky               fan x8r wake,  shsd(, opne
a9*r     gdthatJAip t#  nasp ltoo4'byg
th 4g foup-th,.a 'ft$',.and at aith-4heir lig~t
sals allarle. e p       j         up to,,,e;
wto       beg e ovg   e     go snd      as
tg       pagb  eaI pg g 4lpk,.szt4 te d4e
W~jggy      eoyinei~se twnts   hen  Pheavy
p iphty er,peugth *peowsy of the
a       .tAb  *psh
fr 0 MITI'
t  e  i poto p sh4xp
8, tpfpd  Vig rg0    4,Qs'e m*4#q er et
hO P            49oW- 0  ero#,nr  qate4,he
)Moggz cresaggut toi former gtatxleCqrefaIly,

and cautiously had they approached, and now
their prey was'quietly slumbering within range
of the squadron's heavy battery, little dreaming
of the sad fate that frowned over them.. Elissa,
alone of that devoted population, saw the hostile
array, but she had noidea of,te errand dn which
the squadron had come--nay, she had hopes
that Alexis might beon board. But it at last-
appeared certain that no boat would land that
night, and she sought her solitary couch, to par-
4on her lover in dreams, and in turn to ask his
forgiveness for her doubts.
The morning star grew pale, and rosy dawn
glowed in the east. Gloriously the radiance stole
up into the high heaven, whcrp the white clouds
waved their light wings in the deepness of the
infinite blue, and rejoiced as they met the morn-
j    4    fiom the gardens and the olive groves"
of devoted Scio. Up, up came the sun from the
eastern horizon, casting a majestic radiance upon
the:wdvesi 'which'1lled onward,. singing, with
Fsyspfi~iruripg voices, a requiem for the past
atiht. Thiiret he doomed Sciotes awakened
~from their euibersby the roar of cannon, salut-
ing the advent of this bloody day of -vengeance.
4pncqgigfr    tir     ches they, sawthe hos-
tiktpr mjiwo, agg ners the circling clouds of.
su9rk,,dsded away, the markevplace was
fihle4.wjenfsi~ghted nmultitde.: The older
-itiaens, after  .bdef consultation, hastped ,ui
,*or4 4he iglh4p, in the hope of p reso g
eerption froni.punis.nest ; andas ifto.add to
tpg dang    the :a xi otes, who ha4heea :he,
priWagnoversingha insurrection, topk advantage
ofthe moment tqscaps, Almost    yingover
the water *hei !44ePW'ac era Qut of An -gevbe-
fere thoTur ishgomragder per"ieived theirs.
e pe-nor d, he appear-to ga eo  Enggght o,
mainedtsAtisWy is thirst foryengsance,  I
Whehpqts O the citizens .ppreahe4:and
sougewhat~to thejr arprisp, the spplicantor
psteously eqived. iOsmr Iey welcomed
them to his cabin,,and 9leed them refrshniests
--bnt sere y~ass puplesant zestlessnessjuxt-
ing isi   s'ygep4his liprled with anghty
scoro. Th 914;pn plead4 their ca ise pfero4
thegerpreg, 4 leid the wblieupou the
Sauinioe, to.rwhiekehe storasoldier liateppdmwitjh
appsareut t~to9qu LAibegr pase d  asu1k
ongn06 ffgegterpad raising! ohisa4- in,
"'@pe*   qaj POsag' Sqy, ,
(,p          Ah4m#,       4wppn th
beach.'* t -                   q

" 'Tis well," replied the bey. "Go on shore,
 lThet,r*ith&amp;6iid ddbmaF         ndi
m'~u~d&amp; 6v6Wf{ff8tio  agifii e cantild h
heart's passion. ;if6tWit6 aii aeed
6ll-dteniAU tf  ded' het-ndofli
tikidenw1kaWhi,  irdada thie 'colaisi hsfll
ledger, was poisoned, and he refused his c   da
I-niyd *6fen tf elmrchi had liallwed the  lov-
inhedgrasp&amp;oionedga, he spied his 4aiii
ter frdialis dor." Alid ydu aidedifu n' i 'so
lktig the   oiPecdtsofriis daugltei-'b' lnband
Kit the young iindrr duld not bbtain hrdad 'f6i
hi  6eriieAbrde.' Nay,look xdt horrified and
i'dient."you   alrdji, refuedt  nldoyMhiA
as a copyist, although your bboks - were llP in
ais.   Yd '  tofto6d hin thit un16 s he
paid riis fIt 9sMiile pittance tis it  a;  oix
would spurhi hhn lin the olit where heI had
fguxld  h  .  YOU, Dehizil, wejit -arouih
citytiad rged all otherito Aidih this crused
f t eaffisih restoring ocnsuxl (Yrloff' daugh-
ter Noge w   ds,you1utart I The poofflirench-
xuanis 1iow here again -here with'sword and l'AeI
1k to   yo f64  hoies, to your wives, and pro.
claim that the hour of vengeance has arrived I"
Sleft''the " cain; and his auditory, frozen
withi'hord-, itrnimed motionless. ~ThC  too
well remembered havimniterposed toe'idt o  6i1
ii bignghisdauitehome' addit liad
AlwayV oebe aid bince Osmar B'ftook' coin
M&amp; 'ofthgiitaa's troopis, id he waan na-
tedlyW flsce 'desYe fe    ten'geance.' B  t;.ere
they could recoverfrom their terror, a file o'f
s'oldlri ente'ito ferdbhtaout 6f tie cabin at
ph jolt of'thie hig3onet, They hurrid hint
their boats, determined, at least, to die with thieli
Ani.L'b          t    consolhtlon 'was dnied
th.    No adne W~Oty cleka from jhe''r{
'foab'e 'was"
AWd thfini. hurb si'ids.   h   unkeig   e
away, a few mutilated corpses and fragnentsa.

shore, and the work of extcnin!t on  t
'c            h q    i'g~n[~ in les
q'a in ana
we   n     n
he ir' ata-
abdote t   J'd4wh  pe Iks    f-
Aated, 0tiif     ilm reach ,fthir  a
than's.'""I Wd i    18i o er  9
yta% maide , ut    ays e  'Te   e
t6       beffothe oelines snoe ea
t'n f1  h    f
eth 'th  r iile    O  wie fiorehoutso
lh'nt and eOncicI l      e    neft,
iiaPloring 'it., or soyight o o esape itW1eper-
rith lAs 'reekffi weapon, hiding. in his hand
so'nie le  ipping with bipod.
Neither did:the close of day 'put a sto o the
earnage. The moonlight, spreading vividly over
the, town, the shores, and the rich grQof it
tesreee       a or concealment impossible.

-'02 -


THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN,

the aid of cold water and. a bottle of smelling-
salts, she soon recovered consciousness. And
0, with what a thrill of joy did she hear the wa-
ters rushing past the vessel's side. She had
escaped 2
Achmet hurried on deck and reported her con-
valescence to Captain Maxwell.
"'Glad of it," was his bluff reply. "Now,
quarter-master, get out your studding-sails as'
soon as you can; but keep an eye on this new
rigging. Mast-head, thereI keep a bright look-
Out'for strange sailI"
"Aj, ay, sir !"  And the "Dolphin " once
more danced merrily over the waters, under a,

2 ' ,

''A

''A;.)''     12
A'
A.'

'A.'  'A.     0    'A    ''A    .''      A '    '                                           '.'"''''''            ''c      ''       AO   A  AAAAAA"A
lAAALA, 'A   .          "'             "                                              '    '' ' 0''            '  A
A'                      ,,                                                                                    'A
A,  ~' A       ' '~   '                                                 .  .A'A    ' '      A     A''A~.,4A     ,AJA       'A'A(A.'I
A'      .                                                                           .      3    A  ~.A 'U~  ~'A A AAA'1 .'AAA',
.t,"AAI     'AAI,    ~                                                              ''       ~'           A 'A:.A'jj.~' ' ) ' A A'~tiA''A' ~
'.I'AA  '  '  *' ''    AC    'A ''.AAI'       0   "1   ~'Ar '       ''           '  ' A'           A  AAA'1         '      ' 4A
Al    A.'      "" AAAAAJJ1AAk
'A   '  'A         'A'   ' ''      '           'A 'A '~.' A  A ~   . A' iA'    '114    "0       A      0'~~   ''1411 Al *'.A
~Ai  P                     AAjA.~         A   ,   'A    ~A.'
'~44 ~"A~       'A     '4f'~  ' ' ')AA         '         *     A  A,'               . A"       '4   .' '3'V~4    ' A/    'A   J    A A'~'4~~'~

S

A.'

press ofcanvass,lookinglike agigantiewhite swan.
Everything was. put in fighting trim, in case
one of the Turkish frigates should make chase;
but the bloodthirsty murderers were too busily
engaged $\ their work of destruction to think of
keeping a lookout.
When th4 sun again rose over Scio, but a few
Greeks remained alive, and they were carefully
concealed in thse mountain recesses. . There they
mourned for th ir butchered relatives; and swore
to revenge this  vage onslaught upon the de.
fenceless and uno ending. Nor was that sacred
pledge to be fulfill  while a-single Moslei pol-
luted the soil of Gree


at)
-I ff-iwf, l4o4tia44Ift F1 44 1, I 4w  - 44  v ' -  I   :,1 4I  t ;~- i  m4 n'4
4,q               -" AJ141'.  -~'  '- m4''~d   4 ~ '  ~ 1~ p -; -   -~f xj-~
44  4- --- o                         nvf~''  144  a
'CHAPTER X'-1-''- 4I  .-VSu ~~d

"lyyaoflif
ifa W  In the  te  e   llitear;
And that whtch shld accompuy old ige,
As honor, Ie, obedience, troops fiends,
I must nt exet   ha-but in their stead
Curses not oid, but deep, zpouthhnor, breaths
Which the por hmart        deny, but dare notO"

T   n flight of Alel froin the pavilion hatu-
raly roused a great. excitement in the seraglio.
Never before had an Intruder escaped alive; and
the whole community resembled a swarm of
bees, whose sanctuary had been invaded by some
mischievous boy. The guardians, with drawn
yataghans, rushed franticallyabout, calling oiA
the odalisques to retire into their-sleeping.rooms,
a comman4 which the fair ones had no idea of
obeying until they had learned all the particu-
lars. Alarm gongs werevounded, and such Was
the uproar that it reached the ears of Sultan
Mahmoud, who was seated at his council-board,
deliberating on the intentions of Rtussia.,
Step by step the autocrat had advanced, adopt.
ing,ar intervals, therivers Dnieper, Bege, Dneis'.
tAr and ruth as a frontier line, and now he
would fain advance his custom4iouses to the
yery month ofthe-Danube. The Turks expect-
ed tosee their capital spin surmounted'by the
Greek eross; but theT wished to keep offi-4or
another century, if fate would permit-the fatal
day when the prophecies would be fulfilled, For,
before the contests of the fiery Catherini, the
Inhabitants of Constantinople pointed At the
patieular gate by which the Muscovite troops
wld eeeinnly enter the City of Promise; and
they carried their 4ead across into Asiapa--f

their prophets had proclaimed that the Moslem
was bat encamped in Europe. Yet Sultan Mah-
moud hoped that the evil day would not come
within his reign, and had summoned his chiet
officers around the divan of council to consider
what course should be pursued if the Russians
should aid the Greeks in their revolution. There
was also some cause for apprehension in the
visit of the "Nicolai," althongh he had not dared
to refuse her a passage through the jealously-
guarded straits of the Dardenelles.
Thetumult in the adacent seraglio interrupted
the deliberations, and the guardian, who had in.
troduced -Alexis, appeared at the door with a
troubled look,Imaking a sign tQ the sultan.
Mahpnoud, requesting the Seraskier Pacha to
preside, left the divan, and learning from the
trembling guardian the cause of the uproar, he
immediately hurried to the pavilion.
Zulalah, almost paralyzed with astonishnt
at the unexpected conduct of Alexis, remained
where he had left her, gaaing earnestly at the
vessel; but ere he was &amp;rly on the deck she
was surrounded by a score of guardians, with
drawn yataghans. Then came one clad in ted,
with a very fiend's expression on his face, carry-
ing a long sack. Ills deadly gam -towards Es-
lallah boded but little good-for it ~denoted the

prtl tau"   td lk "hoff"46     He left, and the crowd % 6iug  pund~
sultan,in a voice t  ~lt ~iti. 4ii b~  1 I~dtd  l~ilshot f~w"
-TIit t~o~o ~~v~J~~r~,~ tt b tIH &amp;*M of MaffiV! A fftixi
pifl,  lut 1obXw tit oW4AU%~vw~ 6 f 4l td* h,6-6it
ps- hlo             ld, -bute a l006"d r~
nform        hth et~ehrt~a'~tf o      ptd~~l 11i~k'
esdaii~i~tat~h-ec~C1herhik b~-        , -,- 'h ie-T
'Yett %lbood'-red flesh that 41ash~d'6v~tfMtii  T iT- ii  ?; and! ZAMNflu166h, itdd
mqni&amp;8 tasghty,- f-*M the i  iltntltlci. h6 tb 'UUlI~f~h
po#WrM astbe W'as, hdatt&amp;,;-bt~id6ii4iti4 a lhitt6ithlt e-a~~ter h&amp; 64 h'K
Th&amp; la*i-of Mahoueti-ceehlntt 1beet latAW; MAMI itcih~b d
ancj3                                  'L ~  h  ~klhieit  t~emiei4pthrtf ISgtltn:M~~ll#iifl'
the factions Janizaries, and had unrivet4d It"A y"Aaidf the' smAfi&amp; bt fifttcuh Al~A&amp;
a itod49hsikle obf -zihleepWbuli  iwnse1ted"M  ansitpbki tlif nu
nberot kt  pegne;f !-  ii i -Il~h~i  eritefl r~o~helJ  Ala l rtf or~~~
- suspnseaz~dinw~nnte ta 7* ehe~;d,-'1ft t't'ned heart, as no~Az  ~rt~Ck
troluoumvice-Aitt ht1gtfdd ittAt%rejd: 14ldt esir; f ie de,~sehtl~Iefh&amp;
herl*bSktahotiee n--  A; ~  tr of night pal&amp;4~ito i~k4~f
keptid tf  itile  eUib  utthe  ttrW  Iis  ai4 itbS" nedri&amp;hdfrel';fa'1Af-"Id~~
the Russian .embessWAtA,- Peft,-61hAidin ' 'srt -    Wrette  -$l
withtener cre. An te~~*fitt ~dfwhifti4 hi p
fdorhroao ne %Whmsf 4*%~'"-t btbW ~--blesi1;for she f yCirt I ^at  dW1%AWI


for her In the dark pilgrimage of lfts 44  ~in
pQVgjjq Irty on my aRowppAOMO Ym  9C ,W 1.
ti  ~   hp'4  ~~4  ~ l~qA dearr boy; but the loss q"?4iA ,14"J
641 ~4j4p'a lee@        toBa7Q   whyr i s*
1af'*  ~      4c~ah~                  tTh*~~~~p
8%f9?;Qr, 4P   ap  vpe* wt h"0.ix t oWn
an~~  aP7;40              0.0ip  W  A,01~wpao o~~  ~i~t~ o!
In$9~UiuVO 9 h9 ~~U~W~~h4 ~Di,~y4,a ,,".~&amp;41z.
The trat  f tmatter, ho4ever,A $ .  rcdt  igg4allpte  withndal
Ts~I  d~jpa~1~s tr  ts~4i~lp~o~*~he    Wxy jt4 Cpip aak~
fo4~s~ein ~  ~I~~oo t~~~al wWe   ~ oo~oy i o eo
*G 4 4 o-qaw li   C 9 pp  wo "hjon~ I~~~tigod#eh5~
U40a4i ooete ~o~ Aj            t% *piep*4-p a44e-over hi
thx~~is~e# Ipa VAPJ PT 4 tire 1p4tw  ho r"3RWl4e Iel*edt in iUbavlti
die~~ ~~d opd ha~Iip0 g1g4wl 4 va41 r hpcmveA04 fr~
1ai~rrw jptiAe o " rjiW,,t m  W4~~Let~t4 Ppo~Hrmii
fot~pt 9Iu  'nog um%~~,~4~~Qyjrt4 i  ~~4eis l eIoe
tehu  m~3~  h q g wht         teteur oean~rg~o
Msth;    flp4U$itY  tsnj ibsinebtat6
laJie  j  fthe  Ate1'r. oweeri ,  rce t ippWh4-bWJto4jphswveweAo~tk, ho-li
yraA,-Ca~t               ak~
QT 'IOOapoe       lolIttoqeA1  ftsoeytoleohrera  w per
gm~oin b~r~Icprget        17c htE'sawaast4h Ous~ ~
th*#  gt~R~ ~pnQPlekO ~~I~$gu~p~I~r~%sttlyh*
caswep,~~~hp9wsa~oo~IWatOn-     wosa   u r~5lhAeryraot
th4n          th ArD               joe ompced'qelA(poQf hiet s
uvi~u~$yJ~44.p~~lnpt la44nIt.  pwlo.w  Up
,Is _3 ~aa  qou4ta4  sy   4 ~~  $gh t     l4A*
Laa~eSOt h~t~s ~sese f~lo. Ain{ ~ ~ 4~~~hs
f                      aoreeiwsbdp p  T4 CatP  Utto_-
toh4 9Olas04d,#-e's~h~sfo
try e - -a*              ,; iElss?"  skd  avAt,";-' Ast A*O

THE RUSSIAN QUARDSMAN.

-"_Yes. Tell me-were you able to escape-?"
"Alas! I know nothing of Elissa. I was
brought here by force, imprisoned,-nd have been
nearly-starved to death since my j4 'Ior perished.
Why did you not send a guard to the country-
house ?"
"Why did I not ?" repeated the bey. "Was
it not your duty to watch over her? Did I oot
save you from a felon's death, in order to have
an accmplice, and promised you the wealth-of
my doomed enemyras a reward? And were-not
you to watch over Elissa, the daughter of her
whg procured my advancement at Constantino-
ple-an advancement which has enabled me. to
wipe out one long account? Truly have I a
mind to add you to the list of victims, and thus
end your caieer of crime "
His majestic figure dilated as he thundered
forth these questions, in tones that penetrated
the very soul of the guilty partner in his schemes,
and there was no reply. After a short pause,
he continued :'
4A You do not speak, cowardly slave! Mark,
now; what I say. If, within one week, you do
not find Elissa, I will have you shot like a dog.
Depart!"
Trembling and astonished, Lavalette shrank;
without a word from the head-quarters of the
baffled bey. Death stared him in the face, and
he wished that he had been left to starve in his
prison-cell.  Then hope, that arch-comforter,
whispered that Elissa might be among those
who had gained hiding-places in the mountains.
Inspired by the idea, he determined to con~mence
a search, when a Turkish soldier approached
him, saying:
"Do you wish to purchase a ring ?"
Lavalette, as he gazed on the jewel offered
him, felt his limbs totter; and his breath became
short and thick.
It was a ring, which Zalallali had sent from
Constantinople to be given to Elissa on her last
birthday, and a portion of the golden circlet was
encrusted with blood.
"1Where," te at length nerved himself to ask,
"did you obtain this ?"          -
"From the finger of a dead girl, just out of
town," replied the soldier, with a demoniac
smile. "I had to use the knife to get it, for the
finger was somewhat swollen; but it had to come.
Do you wish it?"               .'
Giving the soldier a few piastres, which amply
satisfied him, Lavalette put the ring in his pock-
et, and for some time paced the streets, lost in
5

thought. He felt that, unless he contrivedome
blan of escape, his life would .be forfeited-that,
poo, when he,had a fortune safely dpped in
Yienna, the fruit f his long -service 9f villapy
with Consul Orloff.
Unconsciously he had approached .thequey,
where a boat from one of the Turkijh; frigates
was waiting. The coxswain - was -a   g
I ~I ,epde
Frenchman, who for some years had epta ail-
boat at Smyrna, for the amusementf theFuro-
pean residents, and Lavalette had seversltimes
gone out with him. To his great joy; the=an
recgnized him.
" Ah 1" said he, "are you here? -knew that
you had something to do with that lqqdthirsty
Osmar Bey, but, I didn't -know you'd come here
with him. But we shall-soon be away."
"Do you sail soon ?" asked Lavalette, with as
much unconcern as he could assume.
"The ship's at single anchor, and we are wait-
ing for an officer, who is to carry despatches to
Constantinople. It is that reckless Parisian,
Hilaire, who is a sort of aid-de-camp to this
Osmar."
"I know it," said Lavalette ; "and here he
comes'." Then advancing towards a young man,
in a Turkish uniform, whose countenance was
strongly marked with traces of dissipation, he
exclaimed :
"dWell, my dear Hilaire, I was afraid I should
have to go without you."
"Go without me !" repeated the astonished
young man.
"'Yes. The bey gave me my orders last
night, and I feared that I should have a blue
time of it until he told ine you were to carry the
official account of the battle. You will say when
I take you to see some of my Armenian lady-
friends, in Tophana, that I know Constantino-
ple; but it is dull music alone."
- Hilaire was completely deceived. He had
been at Lavalette's house with his commander,
and knew that they had intimate relations-nor
had he any suspicions that all was not as the wily
clerk stated. So he expressed great delight at
having the pleasure of his company, and in a
few moments the boat was on its way to the
Turkish frigate, the well-feathered oars beating
the blue water into glistening spray.
Hilaire introduced Lavalette to the captain,-
who was likewise a Frenchman,-and a fellow-
passenger; and in a few moments the almost
breathless fugitive heard the welcome notes of
the boatswain's whistle, followed by the call:


'70                        THE RUSSIAN
atAlt-hands nUp anchor !"
The imsen walked mechanically around the
capstaiW-4tthe music of a doleful-sounding drum;
and '6bi the dripping flukes hung from the cat-
head. The fore-topsail yards had been hoisted,,
and it a moment the sails were sheeted home,,
a"*tkehjibs-set. There was a fair breeze, and,
as thrigate felt it, she left the anchorage, her
erew setting sail after sail until she staggered
under cloud of canvass, tapering high towards
the ci6bds- Had not Lavalette been thoroughly
absorbed in his villanous schemes, he could but
have been amused at the crew-picked up from
the fghig-boats and wharfingers of the Turkish
ports. The petty officers were generally Italians
-th6 4eynainder, with the captain and first lieu,
tenant, wert French. It was a tolerable "fair-

GUARDSMAN.
weather crew," but one upon which, evidently,
no reliance could b placed in contest or storm.
Never had Lavalette, in his long career of
crime, felt so relieved as when he saw the island
of Scio fade into the distance. He joined his
companion in revelry until late at night, recall-
ing the conquests- and glories of France over
ruby wine from'her sunny slopes, and quite in-
gratiating himself with the officers.
The next morning, when they were washing
the decks overhead, Hilaire lay in a drunken
sleep; but the wily partner of his state-room was
up, and opening -the bag which ,contained his
despatches, had abstracted a letter to Zalallah.
Carefully putting it in one of his pockets, he
then retired to rest, and it was difficult to arouse
him for the late breakfast.

CHAPTER XV.
"The sword the banner, and the field
Glory and (Greece, around me see!
The Spartan, born upon his shield,
Was not more free!
Awake! (not Greece-she is awake!)
Awake my spirit! Think through whom
Thy life-blood tracks Its parent lake,
And then strike home!
Tread thy reviving passions down,
Unworthy manhood !-unto thee
Indifferent should the smile or frown
Of beauty be."
MORNING AT MIsSOLONGHII The sun comes paced the fortifications, and there was a guard
pouring its bright rays from over the poetical posted before the house which served as head.
Mount Parnassus, and casts a flood of liquid quarters to the commander of the garrison-
light upon the plain, rivaling the classic halo of Lord'Byron.
bright memories with which it has been invested. . The house in which the warrior-bard had
All around are thick groves of myrtle, olive and taken his quarters was, as might have been ex-
pomegranate, rich at once in blossom and berry pected, one of the best in Missolonghi; but, ac-
-whilst the vine, laden with vivid green foliage cording to English ideas, it was wretchedly de-
and clustering fruit,. climbs from tree to tree in ficient in everything included under the word
wanton luxuriance. A soft breeze comes stealing comfort. The lower floor was used as a stable
in from ,the waters so famed in mythological for his horses, and a store-house. Above was
romance; and the river Avenus, with its silvery a large sitting-room, with whitewashed walls,
tide, reflects the laurels that fringe its banks. upon which hung the armorial. bearings of his
The town itself, with its low fortifications, and proud race; a landscape view of Newstead Ab-
its well-whitewashed houses, basks in the morn- bey, and miniature portraits of the Countess
ing rays like a vision of joy; and the convent- Guiccioli, and her daughter, Ada. Guns and
bells, with holy peal, invite the faithful th tieir swords were piled in the corners; 'many of the
matin prayers.                               chairs were covered with Suliote uniforms ; and
At the time of which we write, Missolonghi a large mahogany table in the centre of the room
had stood a long siege from the Turks. Staunch- was heaped with books, letters and manuscripts
ly had the brave Mavrocordato repelled the ene- -among the latter the rough draft of the poem
my, while the gallant Botzaris had fallen, after written on his just passed thirty-sixth year, an
heroically destroying their camp. Sentries yet extract from which heads this chapter.' Upon

-


72                        THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.
a rug before the fire-place lay two fine New- the nicety that characterized Captain Maxwell's
foundland dogs; and near by, seated upon an sea-eye.
ottoman, in a recumbent position, was the poet But a tumult in the street below diverted his
himself.                                    attention, and ere he could step to the window,
The personal appearance of this gifted cham- whence he could ascertain the cause, several of
pion has already been sketched in these pages; the Suliotes burst into the room-savage-looking
but he now wore the Greek dress of an " archi- bandits, with gay dresses, rich arms, bronze
strategos," or commander-in-chief of the army, faces, and gleaming eyes, they came as repre-
which set off his fine figure to great advantage. sentatives of their comrades in the street beneath.
The expression of his face, however, was sadder A spy had informed them that the Germans
than before he had assumed command. He had were ordered to head-quarters, and one of their'
forsaken his ancestral halls, where he enjoyed number, in a vehement. .speech, had kindled
fame beyond reasonable 'desire, wealth, rank, flames of indignation as fierce as the famed
everything that could fill his gorgeous cup of life "Greek fire " of the ancients. Inspired with
with mortal happiness. Yet he had not enjoyed rage and anger they now clamored in the street,
himself, and after every variety of passion had echoing the words of their envoys:
swept across his heart like an autumnal gale, "Colonati I colonati I"
leaving nothing but withered leaves behind, he' "Dollars ! dollars !" exclaimed Lord Byron,,
had determined to throw his sword into ihe'scle in a voice of thunder. "Would that I had them
of Grecian liberty. His dauntless, Promethean large enough to press you betweeri,the 'columns'
spirit had entered into all the plans for conquer- on the Spanish die, until you gasped for breath.
ing the Turks, and he was now supporting the Back, knaves I back !"
entire force under his command. So  ~ ts his  Drawing a sword, he rushed towards the ap-
weekly supply of dollars lasted, the Sp1iotes were parent ringleader.  This unexpected bravery
cringingly obedient, but the last weeks py was had its effect, and the intruders fled; but no
lacking, and now their noble commander's hert sooner had 'the last of them left the room than
was sickened by their ungrateful insubordination Lord Byron fell, his face bathed in blood. .The
in consequence of it.                      crimon tide came from his temples, where
Well, Flcher," he asked, as his servant leeches had been applied the-, day previous, and
brought in breakfast on a tray, "is everything the exertion had caused the wounds they had
quet at the barracks?" left to re-open.
"es my therb abkt the Suliotes are to assem- When he again came to his senses he was ly-
ble in. the course of the morning, and they ing upon his ottoman, surrounded by his friends,
threaten to come here for their pay."       while a feniale hand was gently applying a cool-
"Well."                 -                 ing'lotion to his fevered brow. She wM' seated
And, my lord, they threaten to take it by beyond his head, so that he could not see her
rfce-but the soft touch recalled Inany a sad
fcrvei cowards! Is there no soon earth thought. First, there stole noiselessly across his
where Man is 'not sla ve to tis'accursed thirst recollection the holiness of his early love for
whre   n        ye avl   PIT. acco to  O unt gary Chawoith-then, with a shudder, came the
gmba, and tell him to order the ermanartifi- memory of his unloving wife-and tender recol-
cers 4erewith the two ho'v iitzers indatmibil elections of Madame Guiccioli followed, with later
cf rpe-hot. By the crosofewstead I I will 'loves, in which the pure poetry of i64 heart had
emdown as    otais swept away the no place. Who had'followed hini his chival.,-
Tu   r    a"                               ros eile' Who cared for th"apjnnd hus-.
The srvant left;' and Lord 'yron,after pe- band of a heartlss wife. With a co6vuisie
the flor for a few moments,"took a glass effort he raised his' head, rig si-.lissa I
fihe table,-to look from the 'winw fan      'es it 'was our heroine. ',hie had arriVed in
frm seablvesse3  of'any Aizecaa pro ngach the " Dolphin ;-" and the sight of Oaptain Mat.
the tows owing to e  szwe ca   pt   a-h well as  ey came on shore, haA qdieted the Su-,
tre tuhe saw in the roads ne fluqcatstcorw- elites' for hhe aWbroughtm  a thousand "cb0'
r; ti    e  wtn  ior, The hull resembled ihe "D'p-Ionati" to their pursesT.,  hey siemiked ir*ay';
-i" but the trasts were newa and of a     nmall and, on goipg upstairs, the capin'fn1Ato"
size for the sails-nor was the rigging setup with  yron yg i hso

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.                73

thq poems of the bard, and well-remembered his tive of the massacre at Scio was not news; but
kindness to her a few weeks previous, immedi- all around the poet's couch listened with grief to
ately applied herself to 'his restoration. And the details of horror related by Elissa. All that
thus, when he recovered, his eyes rested upon day did she minister to the wants-of Lord Byron,
her fair young countenance, gazing on him with who could but feel grateful. Promising to send
an expression in which 'the purest innocence her to Malta by the first vessel, he begged her
seemed refined by an absorbing sdlicitude for his to remain at his house, and Elissa consented.
welfare. Alas I 'this was what his affectionate  Although the "Dolphin " had brought no sil,
spirit had ever thirsted for-but, like the wan- ver this time, a felucca arrived with a supply,
during dove, it had found -no resting-place, and and the Suliotes were again submissive. But
had returned to his desolate heart. The narra- for some dayshe cared not for martial exercise.
CHAPTER XVI.
"Gold! gold! In alleges the curse ofmankind!
Thy fetters are forged for the soul and the mind;
The Umbs may be free as the winks of a bird,
And the mind may be slave of a looi1 and a word.
To'gain tIee, men barter eternity's crown,
leield honor, afflection, and'lasthg renown.")
EXPECTATION reigned at Constantinople I For  The deep booming of cannon in the direction
the first time the new fleet, with its European of the Princes' Islands, attracted crowds to the
ofcers, had gone forth from the Sea of Marmora, water's edge-and, for once, the coffee-houses
and all awaited news of its success. The old were deserted. 'there was an interval of pro-
uoslems, as they sat in the kafhanys, sipping found silence. Then rose the, full moon, and
fragrantMocha from dwarfish cups, feared that displayed a large frigate approaching under
no good would come from the employment of shortened sad. Her tall spars, with their com-
infidels to command the faithful. Greeks, a prey plicated tracery of rigging,loomed up fromthe
to sad fears, glanced often at the Genoese Tower, snowy canvass of her lower yards, and soon
in Galata, for the signal of a victory that would another broadside flashed from her ports. There
desolate their native homes.  The American had been a. victory-else why this joyous an-
naval architects were anxious to learn how their nouncementF Constantinople was astir ; nor
vessels had worked at sea. And even Sultan had the frigate dropped her anchor off Seraglio
Mahmoud, seated 'in some apartment of his se- Point, ere the whole surface of the water far
raglio, commanding a view of the offing, gazed around her was dappled with caciques, through
with his glass at each coming sail, impatient to which her first matter, carrying the despatches,
learn if his newly organized naval force was found it difficult to pass. When her canvass
really efficient, and if his revolutionized provinces was all furled, there was a flourish of drums
were subdued.                                upon her quarter-deck, and the yards were man-
At last the news came ! The sun had sank to ned by the crew, every other one, holding a blue
rest.; but a bright purple radiance phryed on the port-light, which  cast a lurid glare over the
outlines of minaret and dome long after the city boats around. Then was heard, in sonorous
slept in the soft golden twilight.' A gentle south- tones, the voice of one of the Effendis, who had
ern breeze agitated the cypress branches that accompanied the expedition:
overshadowed the seraglio garden, and cast a "God is great, and Mahomet is his prophet!
faint ripple over the calm surface of the deep Scio is re-captured .from the infidel dogs, and
blue Propontis. the blood of her Inhabitants has washed out the


74.

THE RUSSIAN GUARD9MAN.-

stains of her rebellion! The arms of the sultan
have triumphed,, and his army is invincible!
Glory, to the  ost High for the success of the
Prophet's servants !"
'To the Turks this announcement was, the sig-
nal for 'illuminations and rejoicings-while their
Greek neighbors, trembling for their own safety,
felt bound to join in the festivities, ay, to rejoice
over the massacre of their relatives. Their
hopes of seeing the Greek cross replace the cres-
cent over Saint Sophia vanished like a dream,
and their hearts sank, surrounded like Marius,
by the ruins of their projects. Now their eyes
must be directed towards the barbarians of the
North. Russia, having succeeded in other en-
terprises of aggrandizement, -must pursue her
career of ambition, and the Muscovites must
drive back the Ottomans into Asia. That this
mission might be accomplished has been the
daily prayer of thousands since that sad night
when Captain Hilaire brought news of the mas-
sacre of Scio to Sultan Mahmoud. But one,
deeply interested in the intelligence, knew not
of its arrival. Fearing the worst, Zalallah sat in
her prison palace, with her head resting on her
hands, as one who had endured some torturing
pain, that left its traces behind., The mournful
expression that furrowed her pale face, and the
melancholy languor floating in' crimson dashes
over her large 'eyes, told that her thoughts were
far -away in a world of her 'owri sad creation.
She heard the salutes, but they made no impres-
sion upon her mind, - pre-occupied as it was with
other thoughts. In former days she had looked
at life through the magnifying telescope of hope
-but now despair, reversing the lenses;,even-
diminished the feeble chances of seeingher daugh-
ter again. Could she have brought herself t6
think that Elissa was alive, it would have been
different-but a sad presentiment that she, had
bn slain at Scio saddened her every moment.
The dark waters of eternity rolled between her
and the loved one jwho was to be her companion
in that ideal home to which she had looked for
years The well-known footsteps of the sultan
aroused her, and she rosd to greet him.. But so
cold was the hand she extended, and such vivid
anxiety was depicted upon her wan countenance,
that he involuntarily shuddered.,
' Ah" she exclaimed, mistaking the' cause
of his emotion, "you haye evil tidings forme !"
"No," he replied. 1'"On the contrary she is
safe and well. Osmar Bey has conquered the
Sciotes, and has washed out the stain of their

insurrection with a tide of blood. But he has
sent Lavalette here, to assure you that Elia is
well, and he brings yon a ring, which he says
you will recognize, as a token of her welfare "
" Thank.God I" fervently ejaculated Zalallah.
"I am truly undeserving such mercy."
"Nay, nay," said the sultan, "you merit ev-
erything. Listen, Zalallah, for I have an ag-
nouncement to make that fills my heart with an-
guish. For years you have been my favorite
sultana, my friendly adviser. But, owing.to the
unfortunate intervie* with that young Russian,
the seraglio must be closed against-you. To have
a sultana who had conversed with another man,
would be virtually abdicating my throne, and
never would be pardoned by the stern Moslems.
Already the Ulemas of the mosque of Sultan
Achmet have sent a deputation to agk if youi
had suffered the penalty of your crime! What
can I do ?"
" Generous Mahmoud," interrupted Zalallah,
"I will not cause you trouble, for my poor life
is:- "
"Your life is precious to me, and to your
daughter. Listen, I would not send you hence
did I not think that you could be made happier.
But I well know that yoa have ever looked for-
ward to a union with your daughter, and now-
the opportunity offers. Tomorrow night you wil
be conducted to a caique, which will convey you
to a fast-sailing schooner. Lavalette will be on
board, and I shall place wealth :enough in his
hands to make your lot an easy one. Now, Zn-
lallah, we must part !"
Long after the sultan had left, Zalallah re-
mained standing motionless, confused by the
overflowing of joy from long-sealed fountains.
Could it be possible that she was to clasp her
'long-deserted child to her heart, craving pardon
for her desertion, and telling her long, pent-up
love. Then to think that she was .to live with
her child-to see her in the morning, and to re-
ceive her haste kiss at night! What happiness'!
The walls of her prison no longer confined her
winged spirit-it had taken its flight, and the
soft magic of hope had not only brightened thb
future, but seized upon the present, and bits
all-powerful prism changed the aspect of every-
thing around. Tranquil content again beamed
'from her countenance, and, like the sparkling
flow of afountain, proclaimed that all was bright'
and clear within. It was late ere she retired to
rest, and then, in dreams, she anticipated a joy-
ful meeting with her daughter.

THE RUSSIAN (

The next day she was busy in preparing her
effects, which had been sent to her from the se-
raglio, and which were now conveyed by a trusty
messenger on board the "Stamboul."  This was
a schooner-yltcht-built in- England-of about
two hundred and fifty tons burthen. She carried
six guns, besides a long twenty-four pounder.
amidships, and was commanded by an honest
Scotchman, Captain Stewart, who had for years
served as master-mate in the* English navy-
which he left for better pay and promotion in the
sultan's service. His crew consisted of twenty-
four Englishmen, all told, with eight young,
Turkish midshipmen, sent to learn the rudiments
of ,eamanship. The present voyage (so his or-,
ders stated) was for the purpose of carrying
Monsieur Lavalette and a lady. to Scio, and
thence to Malta, or any other port his passengers
might select.
Night at length came, and dreary it was.
Black clouds obscured the moon, and it was sel-
dom that a star could pee'p forth, while shrill,
gusts of wind came sweeping down the Bospho-
rus. At length Lavalette came, and, with all his
talent at dissimulation, Zalallah could but regard'
him with distrust, so guilty was the expression'
of his downcast eyes. But when he gave her
the well-known ring as a pledge that her daugh-.
ter was safe, and recounted many anecdotes
about her, the credulous mother was completely
deceived. High did her heart beat with hope as
she followed him from her unguarded prison,
and thence through the narrow, unlighted streets
to the fish-market landing. There a caique was
in waiting; and soon the sultana, from the deck
of the "Stamboul," gazed upon the seraglio,
so long her home, for the last time.
The anchor was soon at the cat-head, and sail
after sail was set. No sooner did the clouds of
canvass thus unfolded catch the wind, than the
tall, raking masts bent before the pressure, and
the "Stamboul " gleamed merrily over the spark-
ling waves. Running freely before a steady ten-
knot breeze, with the current in her favor, she
sped on her way rather too rapidly for Lavalette,
who had not yet matured his schemes of villany.
Once he was tempted to throw Zalallah over-
board; but a moment's reflection convinced him
that Captain Stewart would deal out justice with
an inflexible hand. No-he must hatch up some
cunning plan by which to get rid of her, and
then escape to the continent.
Gallantly did the "Stamboul" speed on her
course the first two days; but no sooner had she

GUARDSMAN.                             75
cleared the Dardanelles, than the wind forsook
her canvass, which now hung idly flapping a.out,
like sheets upon a clothes-line. Hour after hour
did the "Stamboul " idly ride over the long--
heaving waves, exposed to the full glare of the
sun. To Zalallah, each hour passed drearily;
but Lavalette was in high spirits, for he had at
last matured his-plan. It was this Oi errting
at Scio, he would land with Zalallah at a part of
the town remote from the citadel-then, ea'ving
her under some pretext, he would hastn on
board the "Stamboul" again, and direct her
course to Malta. Of course, Captain Sewart
would not object to this; and from  al16, he
could easily get to Italy. Then, hastening to
Vienna, he could revel in his ill-gotten poil.
At length the desired breeze came, playing
aloft coquettishly ere it blew steadily, although
not from the desired quarter; and again 41d the
staunch "Stamboul'" lean over gracefullyas she
sped through the waves. Then came th stoIrm.
Light sails were taken in, and soon, with reefed
caivass, she dashed the waters from her bows in
sheets of foam. Heavy clouds hung like funeral-
palls overhead, and, as the wind chanted its
dirge-like melody through the rigging, the wild
waves echoed back the sound with sullen echo.
But- wild as was the storm without, there was
calmness in the thoughts of Zalallah-for she
thought that the tempestuous winds were hurry-
ing her towards her child. Black as Wias the
night, it was less dark than were the thoughts of
Lavalette.
Gradually the storm died away, And when the
morning sun rose there was no trace of 'coimo-
tion in the quiet heavens. A gentle breeze just
swelled the sails, and the crew of the""'$tam-
boul," fatigued with their night's toil, lay sleep-
ing on her deck, with the exception of lhie"man
at the helm and the lookout. The eaptai was
in his state-room dreaming of the "banks and
braes o' bonnie Doon," and the mate, lase
watch it was, paced slowly to and fre'on the
quarter-deck.
The shadows were cast straight down"upon
the snowy deck ere the captain came ip the
companion-way. Walking to the main-rigging,
he scanned the horizon, where some dark specks
attracted his attention; and he roused a sleeping
boy, with an order to bring his glass.
" The Greek fleet 1" he exclaimed, after a long
look; "and they have the weather-gage of us at
that! Rouse up, menI Take a pull at the lee-
braces! Hand over hand, haul cheerily! Now

0


76                         T12 TtISSIAN GUARDSMA.
brg her apoint nearer to the wind! Steady, hope. "Innocent! Scio in ruins! Greece in
so!                                         tears ! Ay, and thousands of butchered witnesses
In    n, owever, did the "Stamboul" seek will: soon meet you to disprove your last false.
to evai t he See, which numbered a dozen sail, hood. Five minutes, and you swing from yon-
ai4d 6qsdxon their so rapidly that there was no der block I"
hope f4r escape. The guns were east loose, and  Turning from the miserable wretch,'he ordered
prepsratins iuade for defence-although  it a hangman's rope to be rove at the fore-yard
seemed madness to conibat with such an over- arm, with a grating placed on the gun nearest,
powering foe. As if pursued by fatality, an un- beneath it. Intently did Lavalette watch these
eky pls*' of wind, carried away the "Stam- preparations; and his perceptions, clearer as
bur's "foreilards, bringing her to the wind ; death drew nigh, added to its horrors by their re-
and    , leralded by a volume of smoke and morse. His crimes gathered, like demons, to be
tianedjrsai he bows of the foreniost Greek ship, his companions, and he cast an imploring glance
cane ashot. Crasbing through the main-rigging, at Miaulis, who again approached him.
it sowonded fthe fo-etopmast, that it went by  "Mercy !" he exclaimed, in a tone of bitter
the bdard, nor was the hamper cleared away, anguish. "Let me but live and repent! Let
before here was a Greek vessel on either quarter. me restore the fortune of Orloff! Let me give
'FA uo use," groaned Captain Siewart, when you allI Let me be your servant-your slave !"
hailed to surrender, "and, after all, 'tis not the  There was a fearful silence on the, quarter-
red cros of Britain that we strike. Quarter- deck; and forward the crew assembled without
aster) haul down your colors !"           the customary bustle-for a sailor's gallantheart
Going n board the flag-ship, which was a fine revolts, at the idea of being an executioner.
Amercan .built sloop-of-war, the disconsolate Miaulis was, evidently himself loth to send the
captan surrendered his sword' to AdmiralMiau- trembling wretch to a final judgment; but a
Ea.. 11e had known Miaulis before the war com- sense of duty nerved him, and he was about to
mened, and frankly told his errand; but no give the fatal order, Ahen the lookout shouted:
sooner had he mentioned the name of Lavalette "Sail-ho I
tha; the Greeks eye flashed with rage. Beck-  "Where-away?" demanded Miaulis.
oning to an officer, he despatched a boat to the  ' Coming before the wind !"  And in a mo-
"Samboul," and in about half an hour the ment the lookout added: "It is the Russian
Fendhman was brought on board the flag-ship, frigate."
covered with dirt-for they had, after a long  "Praise to our lady I" muttered the admiral-
searehfound him concealed among the water- for now that the moment for execution had come
casks in the hold. he could not bear to strangle a fellow-being.
" , traitor I" exclaimed Miaulis, " this time RUising his voice he ordered the prisoner to be
I bi ve you fast V "                        put in irons.
valette gasped for breath, and swollen pur-  "This respite," he continued, addressing him-
pie veins stood upon his forehead, while his face self to Lavalette, "is to enable you to confess
was ghastly pale.                           your wickedness to Consul Orloffwho is in yon.
"I innocent !"he cried, with a wild shriek, der vessel. Meanwhile, endeavor to make peace
sinidng upon his knees.                     with your offended Maker !"
*n'socent 1' repe ated Miaulis, looking down  Such was the reaction of feeling, that Lava-
upon him with a savage laugh, that thrilled lette, after a shiver had convulsed his frame, fell
thregh every nerve of the fainting culprit, and senseless upon the deck, and was carried below,
basedi with black despair the very founts of as if a corpse.

CHAPTER XVII.
"There went a voice of mourning throuOU the land;
Lo! by yon rampart on the ses-beat.strand,
A sad and solitary form Is seen;
Paks Is his brow, and eroudet ca4n, his iiu;
His curling lip seems ormed for scornful ire,
But in his eye there gleams a poet's Are-
The bay-leaf girds his brow-I know him well;
MTs he-the m~e~er of the chorded shell.'
The muse that loved and mourned him, could not save
From grief, from error) and an early grave.
Yet here, at least, let angry censure ceWse.
HQnor to DrAoj,,when the these Is Greec"

RETRACING the path of time, we will follow  Desolation hung, like a pol, over the whole
the "Nicolai" into the harbor of Scio, which landscape-for the barbarous Turks had even
she entered about a week before she encoun- girdled the olive-trees, stopped up the springs,
tered the Greek squadron, under Miaulis. Con- killed the cattle, and converted the once fertile
sul Orloff and Alexis,. it will be - remembered, gardens into desert wastes, in which rose the
were on board; and the young officer was unre- blackened ruins, monuments of savage vandal-
mitting in his attentions to his aged grandfather, ism. The Turkish fleet, its troops satiated with
who could notrecover from the saddening idea blood,' had gone to Athens; and a few of those
that he Vas a bankruipt. There was also a pro- Selotes who had escaped to the mountains, were
evoking mystery about Manasseh, who had so hovering like spectres around the ruins of their
cunningly contrived to, secure his, property; nei- once happy homes, with haggard and fearful
ther could he account for the defection of Lava- looks.
lette. Trouble stamped its legible 'hand upon Consul Orloff was more impressed thn his
the old man's brow, and his bowed form spoke coinpanions, for in happier days Scio had boei
even more plainly of suffering than of age. his horne. Neither could he but feel that assur-
Prosperity had shone oi him for a lifetime, so edly the day must come when the Greeks, goaded
that in this dark hour he was" rostrated by the to wrongs beyond endurance, would rear their
storm of adversity; and often, as I e recounted hallowed banner over the AEgean. The day
the large sums obtained from various consignees when the sanguinary victors, arrested in their
by Lavalette, a spasm of anguish would suddenly fierce career, are driven back to their Asiatic
distoit his features.                   '  homes, and not one shattered link of their fetters
They entered the harbor of Scio ; nor had the should mar the fertile gladness of drecian fields.
"Nicolai" reached the anchorage ground before The day 'when the songs of Salamis should
le ruined aspect of the ,town convinced them  again resound in friendly ports, where indepen-
that the work of destruction, was accomplished. dence should bless the toils of peace.

a


78                      . THE RUSSIAN
Alexis could but think of Elissa; and he al-
most hoped that she had perished in the "Dol-
phin," rather than have landed to fall a victim
to the Turks. Neither was Captain Paskewitsch
less a prey to thought, as he went ashore with
his two passengers -for he could but feel indig-
nant at the sight of such wholesale devastation.
Landing at the quay, they walked into the now
desolate market-place; and there the consul was
accosted by a wounded old man, clad in misera-
ble rags:
"Alas ! Orloff, you are the cause of all our
desolation I"
"II" exclaimed the ruined merchant.. Then,
with a thrill of horror, he recognized in -the
wretched object before him, Kalerdji, whom he
had long known as one of the most prosperous
Sciotes.
"1Yes !-you are the cause of it all. Remem-
ber you the young Frenchman who came here,
years ago, and married your daughter, so niuch
against your will? Little thought we, when at
your request we refused to give him employment
in our counting-houses, that we were sowing
grains of vengeance to spring up in after years
so powerful as to ruin us by their poisonous
shade. We forgot it-he remembered itI And
we know, alas! that all this misery is but a re-
payal of the debt of revenge, contracted by us,
Orloff, at your request !"
"Wiat I" eagerly inquired the consul, hor-
ror-strickeg at the presentiment, "is the com-
mender-"
He could not conclude the sentence, so pow-
eril were his emotions; but Kalerdji finished it
for him :
"Osmar Bey, Orloff, is the husband of your
daughter-the father of her child ! If you seek
his work, look around I"
"Heavens 1" said Alexis. "Osmar Bey, then,
is my father ?"
"Even so, young man, if you are Orloff's
grandson; and let me advise you to be off. We
have felt the claws of the lion, and have no love
for the whelps)"
Qbme," said Captain raskewitsAh, "let us
athe 'Nicolai,'"
A crowd o fdesperate-looking beings were be-
ginning to collect,, and they regarded Alexis with
ferocious looks, as if thirsting for his blood. No
demonstration was made, however, and before
an hour hadI elapsed, the "Nicolai'' was agaisp
underweigh. .
The consul,.on reaching the vessel, had retired

GUARDSMAN.O

to his state-room, as if anxious to escape the
curious gaze of the officers. Alexis followed
him, a deep flush of shame glowing on his cheek
-for he felt that his father was not only a rene-
gade, but that, instigated by a diabolical ven-
geance, he had planned the ruin of his grand-
father. A solution of the mystery of his parent-
age had ever been one of his darling wishes;
but he now found himself the son of a revenge-
ful outlaw, whose bloody deeds made him hang-
his head in very shame, while his bright eye-
was fixed sightless on the floor. Then, before
either broke silence, it occurred to him that there
might be some mistake-some terrible error.
Osmar Bey was a soldier, who would scorn to
cherish a foul passion, but might have ravaged
SCe in qbedience to inexorable orders. So chi-
Vairous a Inan, educated (as Achmet had in-
formed him, when on their way to the camp, near
Smyrna) in the army of Napoleon, must be in-
capable of treachery.
" Grandfather,'' said he, "an awful veil has
been removed from my eyes."
"And from   my own," ,interrupted the old
man. "Little did I imagine when I saw that
renegade at Lavalette's, that he was the destroyer
of your mother's happiness, linked with other
villains to ruin me-to beggar you."
"But may there not be some error?- At any
rate, let me find him, and then, face to face, as-
certain the truth. Surely, did he know that I
am his son, he would love rather than hate you,
for the love you have borne me. I must-r-I will
see him I"
Rising from hrs seat, Alexis paced the narrow
state-room, a prey to violent emotion.
"Nay, Alexis, do not couple your name with
that of such a wretch, who has despoiled me of
my fortune as he despoiled me of my daughter,
and made my name a prey to the hissing tongues
of merchants 'far and wide."
"But I must know this ; for long, long years
have I desired to see my father-to speak with
him-and now, 0. how much have. I to say.
Farewell, dear grandfather! I hope to meet you
soon after your arrival at Malta, and perchance
I may clear up this mystery.",
Before the consul could reply, Alexis had left
the cabin, and was in consultation with Captain
Paskewitsch. His orders were to visit Greece,
and now his inclinations led him there. No ar-
guments would keep him; and he left in a
small felucca, hired in the harbor, just as the
frigate spread her clouds of canvass to the breeze.

I

TiH tIRussiAiq 'd1TARDsmLN.,

N

79

The old'e ofisul diod il the quarter-deck, wav-
ing his hiiakerchjef; 'but there was a sad ex-
.espion of d b 'upon his nobldcountenaice,
as if he fenr-d hat xo goo'd would result front
tje visit.
u Shijing his eours6 for Athens,'or rather for,
its seaport, the master'of the tiny craft croWed
sail; and thus ran directly into the storm which
'  2tamboul"  encountered on leaving the
ar   nis. 'th1e staunch English-built schoon-
erhad jlbugiedthe angryy waves with a steady
fielmu- b the light felucca was tossed landward
like a dry leaf, at the mercy of the wind. Tear-
ing madly along, she rode over the billows like,
a Ot6rmyo'trel, iiow plunging-into the foaming
w'avwas'if divitig to the coral groves beldw;
theuhuoyn:tiy rising, the spray dripping from
her sails, over the"foaming crest.
1i00A  cme, add " as the moon broke out
through te jagged edges of the threatening
clouds, the irregular outline of Egina's temple-
cioweiid heights wete seen to windward, loom-
ing up over the gleaming mass of foam. 'It was
madness 'to attempt to gain an offing; and the
captain, with compressed lips, fearlessly ranbe-'
fore the wind to annihilation or to'safety.,
On-on-on the felucca drove, tnitil thete rose
before her a high precipice, fringed at its base
by a foaming barrier of surf. Yet in this appar-
ently continuous headland, there is-as the mas-
ter of the felucca well knew-a narrow indenta-
tion, forming a bay, at the extremity of which a
brook emptied its waters, bringing down a san4y
deposit that forms a fine beach. For this haven
the Greek had shaped the course of his tight
little craft, and there was an exclamation of
thankfulness from each one on board, as she en-
terpd the rocky portals in safety. A moment
more, and her sharp keel ploughed the sand,
while. the foam crested wave broke over her in
an avalanche of snowy spray. Another came,
towering and curling as it approached, and lift-
ing her high up, deposited her far up the beach.
They were on the Isthmus of Corinth, near a
fortification just erected by the Greeks, where
Alexis was warmly greeted, when he introduced
himself in the morning. Changing his attire,
he joined the officers at their breakfast, and found
that as the Greeks depended upon the aid of the
emperor, as head of their church, he was very
welcome. But ere he could declare his wish to
see the Turkish general, one of them spoke of
their English allies, as then affording them great
assistance.

" Yes," said another, "when I left Missolon-
ghi, last week; English guns and English gold
.were seen on all sides-although the Suliotes
threw Away the' bayonets. Indeed, I think that
Lord Byron would have captured Lepanto ere
this, had'not his yacht arrived, bringing a young
Smyrniote, just escaped from the massacre at
Scio."
Alexis started. Composing himself, 'he in-
quired:
"What is'the name of his lordship's yacht "
"'The 'Dolphin.'- She has suffered some in a
gale this winter, bat rode it out staunchly."
"And this faith lidy's name ?"
"I did not learn it., She is the hiece of some
runaway merchant at Smyrna, and, is said to be
very beautiful.. Next week I shall join him, with
some of our mountaineers, and then for a fair
fight with these turbaned doggy "
- " You go back to Missolonghi, then ?" in-
quired Alexis.              41'
"I start this very day, with fifty Albanians.
Will you not join us'? Rest assured that you
can find materials for a fine report there-one
which. may -induce your emperor to send us a
squadron of Hungarian hussars, and a horde of
Cossacks."
"Thanks," replied Alexis, "I will go with
you."
Military men lose no time in coming to con-
clusions, and before he had a moment for calm
reflection, the bugle sounded, and his new com-
rade called him. That night, fatigued with the
march, coming as it did after the perilous voy-
age, Alexis slept among the ruins of Platea,
without even dreaming of his troubles.
At early dawn they were again on.the march,
and Alexis soon saw the secret of his compan-
ion's ascendency-over his wild corps-so differ-
ent from the Russian service. There, an officer
was above his men, treating them like slaves;
but the Greek captain was the very life of his
band, winning their affections with kindness,, a
fund of anecdote, and a ceaseless flow of spirits.
It was his cheerful voice that roused them from
their slumbers; it was he who ever led theway
through dangerous passes ; his never-ceasing
song cheered the weary march ; neither was his
pleasant look and restless eye ever darkened by-
fatigue.
To Alexis, who had been taught to believe
that troops must march in battle array, there was
something as joyous as it was novel in this rapid,
unceremonious passage among the wild scenery


:80         TuEEZ   USq4~~ wAR, 4

of the Paressian chain,; the wildAlbaias, in
single file, taking upthe chorM of their leader's
song, until theimountaina echoed with their joy-
ous shouts. The classic ground-the glorious
recollections-and the noble cause, threw a fqr-
ther charm 9n what in itself was really rpmauie,
In:Russia, every man was a cogsterpart of the
rest-buttoned, padded, and equipped by "reg-
ulation."  But here no, two were uld alike,
although each man had his red cap, trith its blue
silk tassel; his gold laced close jacket, with
sleeves slashed and thrown bock so @ to leave
the -ight arm and shoulder bare-a flamingfrs-.
tanelle, or hilt, bound at the Waist with a silk
scarf, covered by a broad. red belt, intq which
were thrust a;small arsenal of daggers and pis-
tole; embroidered gaiters, sandalled feet, an4 a
long, bright-barreled gun in the hand; such was
the equipment of the Greek, sQldiers. On they
marched, between lofty . snow-clad cliffs, or
across fertile plains, with no music but their o-,
songs, no' baggage bt:t what eih man carried..
The small white-cross banner flattered over
their heads ; the soil of Greece was beneath their
feet; and Alexis was so carried away by their
enthusiasm that he forgot his own personal sor-
rows. Greece, enslaved Greece, must again be
free.

At length-it was:on the aternoon of.Easter
Moaday-thg9 light.hearted band deggen~e4 a
mqpntain-path into the fertile plain of Wis -
lonlg. The. town was, before them, enciose3l
with mud parapets; and Alexis, with lis big
.gouysag madly thv9ugh every vein, fel that he
wpul ,soon see the qbjeet of his loye.  at ere
they entered the gates, half-mast f and.sad
codutepfnes proclaimed  national i  Pesik
hal strike  the "rilgrim of Eternity"' in t
classic land, here his young min4 h4 caught
etherel fire, and whqre his mature intellect had
espoused Freedom's cause. Lor4 Bron was
dead I
!a the roqm  (previously 4scri  i e  pth
pages) there, in a rudely-constructed' wQod0en
chest, lay all that was mortal of him who had
astonished Christendom by the brillian.ey of his
genius, the multiplicity -of his prodnetiop- and
the morbid sensibility of his tperange. lls
classic features were placid in the quiet repose of
deat4, as if the .spiit had peacefully wmiged its
flightfrom its tenement of clay. And, as lexis
gazed upon him, he felt a sweet congipuness,
refreshig as the dews of Hermon, that whatever
might have been the faults of the deceased, he
had never wr Pged him.

CHAPTER XVIII.*

"Sveet isthe image of the building dote!
Ioly as heaven a mob r's tender loVe!
The l      nv e of many pryers and m aiy tears
'Whigh changes ~iot with 31m, declining Y*rs~-
The only love, which, on this teeming earth
Asks no return for passion's wayward birth.3

VOi r, OILOFF, after the departure of Alex-
is, gave hitaself up willing prey to sad thoughts;
nor could the kind-hearted Captain Paskewitsch
at firat rbuse hiin from his lethai-gy of sorrow.
The revengeful malice, the deliberate persecu-
tion ot 'his renegade son-in-law, each carried in
itelf1 sting more enormous than ,the sting of
death-yi, like the sting of death,-they subdued
rather than infuriated him. Manasseh'was but a
mysteffitis instrumnIent of this long-rankling yen-
gtinde; Lavalette bit a tool; even the'Turkish
arftis 'e te used to gratify the diabblical thirst.
Tht 'the' husband of his' laughter should for
years have plotted hill ruin, and the destruction
of Scib, ras the spot-where he had refused to
kiW6drld*e hiin as a son-ilaW, , smote him
*6re 'fik its delibstate tredeiery, than with
its' ed46ty. The "Piolai," like- the "Stam-'
b~I,'dtaid the febuoca- char-tered by'Ale~is, was
teiPtssd ; but' while the svaves- daShed
witikdt, ,t~irs of 'auish broke over' the told'
11 iiadd. A helpless waif uiion the-ocean of'
sfilay,' iiwas cast to 'and fro, tterly 'aban-'
donied 'in" pasps, the mobt Wfetched state of
alguish thiat'it could espeiende and .live. His

very existence seemed flickering, until like A
d*indled, half-spent breath, it appeared impa-
tient of its own impotence. But soon, an access
of firmness stole over his fainting' spirit, which
now grew calmer and sterner, Until it was cold
and hard as steel. Slowly and sadly did he -pace
the quarter-deck, after the storm had passed,
animated by one desire. ie, that gray-haired,
trouble-bowed old man, in his turn thirsted
fbr v  ance!I
As tle "Nicolal" approached the Greek fleet,
a lurid glare flashed a moment i0in every'bi'oad.
side ; White curling smoke followed, and then the
report of the saluting guns boined over the
waters. This compliment  to the Russien'flag
was duly returned from 'the "NiicolTi," and, just
as the 8hiond of smoke cledred wa\y in grace-
ful whirls, CaptainrIPtkewitsch,l6okih# through
his glass, exclaimed:
"ConsilI here coiies a boat :fro )in e flag-
ship, bringing Miaulis, himself. He il a llant
seanlan as well is 'a prfect' gentleihan,  d I
consider this visit a highhonor."
"'s/eplied Cnsul Oilof4  ; "'a noblerheart
never Oleed in the palmiest'days of Spartn
Ipa I~

lce

t


82                         THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.
integrity. Were all Greeks like their admiral, kneel to the thunderbolt, when the lihtning
the new republic would cast the ancient glories glares around, as kneel to me for mercy I"
of Attica far in the background on the bright  "0, speak'not thus !" exclaimed the horror-
scene of national renown."                  stricken wretch, cold drops of perspiration bead-
sT hey have a prisoner in the boat," contin- ing his livid forehead, and his limbs writhing
ned the captain. "Probably some deserter, in convulsive agony. "Let me but live! I
whom they are bringing.on board."           will restore your wealth ! I will be. Your slaveI
Miaulis was received with the honors due his I will-" iI
rank, and was evidently delighted to meethis old  "Now," interrupted Capt. Paskewitsch, "the
friend, Consul Orloff. After the interchange of knave' talks sensibly."
salutations, he said:                         "Yes, yes-I  ill io    will deliver up
"Captain Paskewisch,-I have brought you a Osmar Bey into your power  "
groat rascal, who owes allegiance to the Russian "Ah!" said the consul e wand Manasse?
flag. Besides, our friend, the consul, here, has He, wh  so rncely drew the seine which swept
a private account to settle with him."n i     "He shall restore all! 0, but grant me life,
"OseagerBeyk"fexaimedrtheyand everything you ask shall be granted 1"
an eager look of inquiry.                     "Consul," said Captain Paskewitsch, "justice
"No-it is that smooth-tongued rascal, Lava-
demands that this wretch should be punished.
lette. I had an idea of hanging him as a spy, Yet, if he can be made to disgorge his ill-gotten
but we sailors do not fancy tricing men up, even spoils, and to bring his accomplices-perhaps his
although they deserve the noose; so, as you lsov  lir-ncil&amp;al7-t,       it
in sight, I thought I would bring him on board.' prmiel it his  acoruntayn  not
)% to give iim his life,, for repentance 41"
"cThank you," said Captain Paskewitsch; and  "Perhaps it may."
turning to one of his lieutenants, he ordered hin  "Take him below then, men. Put him in
to have the prisoner brought on board.      double-irons, and let a m arine, with loaded mus-
"Let us see him on the quarter-deck,"le ad- ket, mount giard over him. Should he attempt
ded, with a grim smile.                   to escape, let him be shot like a dog."
A gleam of satisfaction illuminated the old  Lavalette was taken below; but no sooner did
man's features, as the terror-stricken wretch was the armorer begin to iron him, than he burst in-
soonled aft by two boatswain's mates; his hands to an hysterical laugh, and then, with convulsive
tied together behind his back, and an old jacket- energy, shouted:
thrown over his shoulders. There is no mask so  "Manasseh --help 1-they're killing me I"
effectual as that which fear throws over the fe When those who had just interrogated him ort
tures,'and it was difficult to recognize the once the quarter-deck, hastened below, his frantic cries
trim Frenehman in the dirty, wasted wretch be- and the restless wanderings of his glaringeye,
foe them., He appeared cursed with the con- betokened an extinguishment of reason's light 
sciousniesskf his guiltand yet lieking the strength  "Poor fellow 1" said the consul, whep thq prr-
to ask mercy of his wronged employer,       geon had pronounced it a case of madness.
"Lavalette V" asked Capt. Paskewitsch, "what  Well, has a deceased author pronouncedl the
measmthis villany V"                      huma heart a mystery! ,When 'the bankrupt
The culprit made no reply. His.lip quivered, merchant felt himself in the power of hisicqrer,
his! brew contacted, and it seemed as if guilt when he was ruined under his evil influence, his
hadideprived him of all power of utterance.  soul rose up wrathfully against him. But pw
Speok " ezelaimed Consul Orjoff.        that' he lay prostrate and down-strickenbefore
Throwing-himself upon his knees,and. tremb- him, all thoughts of vengeance vanished, all
ling in agony, the guilty defaulter stanimered out hatred was absorbed in a strange sympathy -for
a prayer for mercy!                        a suffering, human being. ,So it wa,'t44q
Withycold, scornful calmness, the consul shook officers of the "WNicolai."  enavateas
hisead, andthenreplied:                   brought on board, no, eyelash glistened wyivt
'"MeeyT'Dost' thon:know the meaning ofthe sympathizing tear; no voice was uplifted in e
word that thou askest itfrom: me -E-mewhom  tenuation of his crime; ,but; now,a  it ben
thou haAt rendered bankrupt With thy treacher- one of themselves, he could not have been rea-
ous 'cunning i Mercy! -Thou mnightst asweUl ed more 'carefully, or, confined with mpre te

I

THE RUSSIAN GOARDSMAN.

derness to prevent his doing himself harm. The,
irons were reglacedby plaited strips of sail-cloth,
and he was -removed 'to an empty state room on'
the gun-deck.
He'was mad! 'At times, with an expression
of hatred on his haggard countenance, he would
shock even his sailor guardians by the blasphemy
and freedom of his speech. Then, with a des-
pairing voice, he would call for Elissa, and the,
next moment, with an expression of deep can-
ning, he would narrate his early deeds of einie.'
But Manasseh Appeared to-be his greatest object
of terror. 'He would kneel to him,' pray to him,
entreat him in the workings of his phrenzy; andi
his imploring voice echoed through the frigate
long after night had set her sentinel stars in the
firmament above.-
The consul, when persuaded that the poor fel-
low was' bereft of reason, felt that his re, ent
hopes of a restoration of his property were blast-
ed, although the officers endeavored to persuade-
hin that it.was a temporary alienation,'caused
by fright. The old man smiled' incredulously,
and retired to his state-room, where at times he
could hear the maniac-ravings of his' stricken
enemy. At length he fell asleep, wearied by his
emotion.
When the steward called him in the morning,
he found the old gentleman suffering all the ago-
nies of a Levantine fever. His brow was burn-
ing, his lips were parched, and he appeared
somewhat delirious. -Luckily for his- repose,
Lavalette, under the influence of powerful opi-
ates and' utter exhaustion, was comparatively
quiet.
That morning, Captain Paskewitsch returned
the visit of Admiral Miaulis, who invited him to
visit the "Stamboul."  The admiral ad put a
prize crew on board, but Zalallah was still in
possession of the cabin, and related her story
with a delicacy that touched the gallant sailors'
hearts.
Captain," said Miauls, "I gave you the
criminal-will you take the innocent? This la-
dy's property shall be restored to her, and will
you not give her a passage to Malta?  he-can
hear of her daughter' there, if she is in 'the Le-
vant"
"Can I not get'to Sio ?" anxiously inquired
Zalallah. "I care not for the wealth if I can but
obtain my daughter."
A shade came over the countenances of her
new-found friends,-for they had no hopes, fAn'
her account even, that Elissa had- escaped  the

massacre,--but with kind woids they persuaded
her to go to Malta in the 'PNicolai.
"We have 'a passenger who ist dangerously
ill, I fear," said Captain Paskewitsch, as he
escorted her to the state-room, designed for 'her
accommodtion,-" Consul Orlff, of Smyrna."
Zalallah started, and the crimson tide of shame
suffused her countenance as she thought how
she had been 'misunderstood by his grandson.
Then, with true feminine kindness, she sought
the sufferer's couch, and soothed his delirious
ravings by her soft words and tender sympathies.
Lavalette was transferred to the " Stamboul,"
as an examination of his papers, found concealed
on board that vessel, proved that his ill-gotten
gains had been invested by Manasseh, so that
there was but little hope of their recovery, unless
that worthy could be found. A few days after-
wards, and Miaulis went forth to meet theeiemy
while the "Nicolai " was dashing to the 'south.
ward, on her way to Malta. Time, life's great
physician, soothed the consul's agitated pulse'
ere they had rounded Cape Matapan, and Zalal-
lah saw with joy that her patient was becoming
less incoherent in his murmurings. One sunny
afternoon, after a refreshing sleep, he awoke,
perfectly conscious, but was surprised to find a
lady sitting by the side of his berth. It was Za-
lallah; and although time and trouble-those
.inexorable co-spoilers-had marked her coun-
tenance with their furrows, she might still have
served as a model to those old Italian painters,
who, with their palettes, spread with luscious
tints, portrayed ripening beauty.
"Not a word !" was her reply to his question-
ing, and then vanished from the state-room; but
soon Captain Paskewitsch entered, his bltiff
heart overflowing with joy. He soon explained.
what had passed, andZalallah was introduced.in
due form. The-consul's recovery was rapid, and
he found in his nurse one who could 'fully-sym-
pathize with him in his misfortunes-indeed,
they each suffered from Lavalettes basenesw--.
from Osmar Bey's fickleness -of.heart.
" One thing gives me happiness," said he, after
each had unfolded their griefs, " Osmar Bey.-
for so I suppose he islnow to be called-edid not
rob me of my second: wife, as. I had feared.
Where.could she have g ne            fl
Zalallah shuddered-for she ,thought how dif-
ferent would have been her own lot hadhe never,
with insidious tongue, persuaded her to leave
her husband and her child.
That night, the "Nicolai" lay "off and on,"


TM]~.I~U~8AN QWRD$MA.'                           IM RUSSIAN G'JARDSMA.                8

fby the reengthey:*erenear Malta, and.
she could but thi' k f 'her1ehildhodd.- Her hus-
band ws no-mote, but, perchance, her-ister '
liv  .; Wold she'believe 'her Itory 1 Would'
shecredit her adesrtion, that, although for years
shehad betla reigningsltanat of Xfahmouds:
haeni, she ws pure and undefiled by wro1igto
her mrital ,vosT.- Her pillow waswet withE
tears long er she lesed her eyess; nor, did she I
awakeuntil startled' by.the .shivering'temor.of
thevessel, asishe thundered forth asalute'to the
Maltese.batteri6s. Looking out -froin the port
at her .ide,-she saw the well-remembered fortress
of St. Elmo.
-The Russinil consul at Malta came on board,I
and recoismenddd his Smyrniote colleague to
take lodging at a private boarding-house, instead
of the noisy "Clarence.'"  His advice was ac.
cepted, and when he returned, the captain, with-
ZdlalahynoeeoWpainda him'-to selet a roomkfor
the invalid. Landing gn the crowded. quay,
theyasbendedone of the stairway'streets to' the
Strd&amp; Mezzodigwhere their guide soon stopped
b    -fore- lineeold palaee--one of the'architecturAl
legaciestof the monk-knights of St. John of Jbru-
saldm. .
"This," said the consul; "is -thehouse. 'Walk
in.
The mistress ef-the mansion was absent, and
the consul proposed' to the captain that they
should 'tep Across to the' governor's palace, and.
leave their airds; etiquette required. Zalallah
couldn6t.sobject, and yet she trembled as theyI
departed, leaving' -her alone. The house was
her dwn childhood's home. Here'she had been
wooed and -won.
Almost siakingupon the ottohan, she thought
of the hour when she went fdrth with her deceiver
from her husband's roofl having her child to-the
nserfeise world. Bitter tars-coursed down 'her
cheeks ;' bt -soon a strange feeling calmed her
gef'while her -heart-blood .ebbed and flowed
with-wild tumult. -I was. the action of that.
mysterious sympathy, whieh often 'comes, as if
borise on 'angel's wings, to.Warn us that some
inpftant.event is at hand. Hearing the outer
dboreOpentIid'then ,lose, as if some one-had
eAseret thi house,,se' hastily-wiped away the
lingering tears. The ,door- of 'the room  was
o*ined-isherose, and saw cuter a'Youlig lady.
Jvwas.'-&amp;yg   aie features !-there could--be:no
raistake I;8pinging forward, she clasped the,
astonished Elissa to zer heart,'jXclaiming in
01yIuS1 t=6;.

":My daughter! Fmy-daughterI",
1 My mother" was the ardent reply.; and
Elissa returned the warm embrace with undis-
guised affection.
There were no :questions asked , for the heart
of' each spoke in'trumpet tones of confirmation,
The first joyous greeting over, they sat down
side. by side, and hand'in hand.. Bach.was -too.
happy to spealk        -       -
'Her daughter! There was a depth of joy in
Zalallah's ;soul not to be measured by words, as
shegazed upon her long-lost child. Theprwyer
of her heart, that for sormainy years had -ascend-
ed0  o a covenant-keeping God, had now down
back like amessenger-bird,over the ocean-waste
of her sorrowaladen with the wished-for bless-
ing. No longer did a veil of darkness hang over
her future life, but the- pathway wasbright and
clear.
'or was Elissaipes charmed; and.as.her eyes
glanced from beneath their long over-shadowing
lashes, like 1pring-violets from beneath clusters'
of dark leaves, no one would have thought that
eare .had ever touched .her existene with its
chilling wings. , Her countenance was paler than
it was wien first we introduced her to our read-
brs; but its expression had gained in thought
more than it had lost .in' sparkling brightness.
Happiness murmured in her heart .as .the. south
wind echoes through a sea-shell cast upon a
.palm-shaded beach.
There they sat, united s after long, long years
iof absence, resembling each other, but only as,
autumn, resembles spring. Language game to
the relief of their surcharged hearts:-but no pen
can-record the power sad beauty of their tender
salutations, as they gushed forthin the full tide
bf womanlyrffection.
While :sitting ,thus, a thirdlady entered the
room, in company with Captain Paskehitsch.
It was the Countess Orioli, the.lady, of the house,
to whom the consul had introduced him in the
street,.and who had gladly consented to receive
him. ,1it no sooner did she see Zalallah-than
the started back, saying
"Is 'this your friendV"
;  oor Zalallah ! It was doubly herd to have
lived for years in the seraglio's cloistered seelu-
ioa, exultantyin her own heart's purityjad now
to, -beudged by the,-stern, cold rules of her un-
forgiving sex, before her daughter, and by her
eastern Sinking back upon, bs- seat, she made a
struggle as if to speak, and .then .burst into a
flood of -tears.

Aunt,' said Elissa, advancing from her mo-
'ther's side, "but a. few days have passed since
I came here, with 'Lord Byron's equivocal rec-
ommendation, and foun in you a relative, a
mother. Yet I could not believe what you then
'told me about my own parent. I now feel con-
fident that you wrong her--"
"Sister !" interrupted Zalallah, rising, and,
with an energetic movement, seizing the countess
by the arm, "there hangs the portray of our
father. When he gave me away at the itar you-
heard my vows. Alas! in deserting my hus-
band and this dear child, I broke them-'-but be-
fore him, upon whose likeness we gaze, and by
High Heaven, I swear that I return unbranded
by shame, although subdued by sorrow. Pity
'me, but do not upbraid me."
This earnest appeal could not be resisted, and
tears coursed down the weather-bronzed cheeks
of Captain Paskewitsch, as he saw them ex-
change the kiss of peace. Then 'Zala3lah intro-
duced her daughter, and soon the group was en-
larged by the coming of Consul Orloff. Many
a question was asked and answered, and that
night the sisters again occupied the room of their
childhood, blessing, ere they slept, the daughter
and niece, who had so providentially been made
the herald of their happiness
,6

Consul Orloff found, by consulting with his
correspondents at Malta, that the papers obtain-
ed from Lavalette would enable him to secure
his property, could he but find Manasseh, and
obtain his renunciation of the spoils invested in
his name. This, he hoped, Alexis would suc-
ceed in, after he had seen Osmar Bey, and pa-
tiently did he await his arrival.
Happy in the society of the re-united ones,
whose web of life was so mysteriously interwo-
ven with his own, a pensive calm came over the
old man's thoughts, as the gentle breeze that
lulls the ocean to rest after a tempest; and he
looked upon his sorrows as coming from that
Providence, whose severest hand wounds but to
heal, and chastens to amend.
Zalallah'never alluded to her strange interview
with Alexis, at Consta tinople, but she felt as-
sured that he possessed her daughter's affections.
Not that Elissa ever mentioned his name, al-
though he was the object of her frequent thought.
Did he love her yet It was her heart-enigma,
and every night she pondered over it, with her
eyes filled with pleasant' tears, until sleep closed
them with its halcyon wings.
'

85

TRLY$SiAI Q4BDSMAi.:


UNDTNG Lovn I Blessed and beautiful as
the step of the messenger of glad 'tidings art
thou, when, with magic influence, thbu lightest
man's heart with the rays of gladness-yet sad
is he to whom thou.bringest a burthen of disap-
pointment. Alexis, on his first arrival at Misso-
longhi, felt every doubt respecting Elissa's con-
duet removed, and the tide of love swept ebbless
through his mind, drawing into its sweeping
current every hope and every thought. Had not
a blockading squadron hovered off the harbor,
he would have followed the object of his love to
Malta without delay, nor did he even give the
object of his errand a thought. But the Turkish
cruisers sailed obstinately to and fro, cutting off
all immediate prospect of leaving Missolonghi,
now saddened by the death of the warrior-bard.
Heavy rains postponed the funeral ceremonies;
nor was it until the fourth day after Alexis ar-
rived, that he followed Lord Byron's corpse to
th6 church, where the desolation around, the
disappointed hopes, the mourning soldiers, and
the sad presentiments which clouded every coun-
tenance, made -the scene more truly affecting
than is usually witnessed when the great are laid
in the tomb.
A soldier's grief, however, is short-ived; and

when Alexis was introduced to many of the offi-
cers that evening, by young Cordato, his com-
panion - on the march from Corinth, he found
them gaily enjoying the pleasures of the table.
Soon, to the heart-joy of the young man, the
conversation turned to Elissa, and he felt a glow
of pride as all united in speaking of he with
respect..,  .
"6 Who were her parents ?" carelesslyinquired
a German officer.
"Don't you know ?" replied Count Gamba.
"Why, she is the daughter of Osmar 'Bey, the
famous renegade, and one of Mahmbud'a sul-
tanas. There's a deal of romance about that
blood-thirsty-dog, after all."
Alexis gazed with burning eye-balls at the
count, and every word hissed through his heart
like water dropped upon heated iron. The con-
versation took a different turn, but making an
excuse, he left the room, and paced the streets
like a madman, in a pelting storm of rain. He
felt it not; neither could it extinguish the flames
within his heart. Many a confirmation flashed,
like lightning, upon his clouded mind, and he
wondered how he could so long have been blind-
ed. The conduct of Zalallah, at Constantinople,
was now explained-she wished to convey mo-

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.

ney to her child. This, too, was the secret of
the mysterious.connection of Osmar Bey with
Lavalette; and everything now appeared to un-
roll itself before the mental gaze of the young
man, whose only wonder was that he had not
guessed the truth before. Hour after hour did
he pace to and fro; and when, wet and weary,
he sought his couch, he felt that the love of a
sister-pure and holy, and guileless as it might
be-was not the love he had yearned to receive
from Elissa. At early ,dawn he was roused by
young Cordato:
" Up, laggard," said he, "you stole off early
enough last night, and should have been dressed
long ago to receive in state a proposition that I
have come to make you.".
"Which is ?" asked Alexis.
"Don't look so sepulchral, gallant major. I
ami to return at once to the Isthmus of Corinth,
and as you can easily enough sail from thence-
perhaps in the very felucca that carried you so
bravely through the storm-I thought I would
invite you to share the march."
"I will goI!"
Indeed, had any one proposed going to Jeru-
salem, or running the blockade in a row-boat,
Alexis would have volunteered with alacrity,
merely to drown his thoughts.  I
Ere the sun was up, the Suliotes were on the
march, and soon, leaving the plain, they were
among the glorious mountains of that glorious
land. The very air, amid those classic shrines,
has a balmy softness that relaxes both mind and
body into pleasing lassitude, and althoughAlexis
did not feel disposed to join Cordato inhis mer-
riment, the pure 'breeze had an ethereal effect,
and he journeyed on, alike careless of the pres-
ent, the past, and the future.
As they approached Athens, the Suliotes were
unusually' *arf, for the few peasants they met
agreed" in repdrting large scouting-parties of
Turkish cavalry as hovering around the passes.
Platma, however, was reached without any en-
counter, and there they found the deserted Ivil-
lage already occupied by two other bands of Si-
liotes, with whom those of Cordato soon were
enjoying their coffee and pipes. The young pal-
ikar chief pressed Alexis to join their revelry;
but he Aeclined, under plea of illness, and saun-
tered forth.
It was a beautiful night; the moon riding high
in'the heavens, surrounded by her starry court,
while the clouds-those curtains to her palace-
were all so raised as to afford a full view of the

arched dome. But little cared Alexis about the
beauties of the scene without, for wild tumult
reigned in his heart, where he could not welcome
Elissa with a mere sisterly affection. All at
once his practised ear caught the coming tread
of horse, and before he 'could reach the house
where the palikars were carousing, a sentry fired
his musket, giving the dread alarm:
" The Turks ! the Turks I"
In an instant the sleeping Suliotes were bn
their feet, busied, as by instinct, in preparations
for defence, with the least possible- exposure.
Barricades were hastily constructed,-for the
enemy had halted on finding their - approach
known,-and behind one of these fragile en-
trenchments Alexis took his stand, beside Cor-
dato. He -had mechanically taken an offered
carbine, and rather rejoiced when he saw the en-
emy approach, waving their yataghans, and ut-
tering the war-cry of their faith:
" Hut In! uAllahI hu1"
The Suliotes awaited their charge in breath-
less silence. Lips moved in prayer, but there
was no sound; devout signs of the cross were
made when the petitions were ended, but no eye
ceased to glance along the death-charged barrel
towards the approaching foe. On they came;
nor were they more than ten feet distant from
the barrier when it gleamed with flashes, and-a
deadly volley was poured into the dense mass.
Horses and riders were-overthrown in their oea-
reer, for a time arresting the progress of those
behind them, and the Suliotes had hopes of'jvie-
tory. But at the very moment when their hopes
were highest, there came a troop which had en-
tered at some less defended part of'the town,
and attacked them in the rear.
There was no bulwark against this new'f6re,
and the defenders of the barricade were now like
a vessel in the vortex of a maelstrom, unable to
escape, for around them waved a circle of death-
dealing blades. Yet it was a struggle for life
and death, nor was it until after an hour of car-
nage that the Turks found themselves victorious.
Among the wounded was Alexis, who was struck
by a pistol-ball in the shoulder at the beginning
of the contest, but luckily fell into .the ditch,
where ho escaped being trampled on when the
attack was made from the rear.
When Alexis recovered his senses, he found
himself in a comfortable bed, in a handsomely-
furnished room. His wound had been carefully
dressed, and, probably owing to loss of bleod
and want of food, no fever had supervened,--

CHAPTER XIX.
14Hark 1 hark! to the wardrum,- its larum from far
Gives hotel to the valiant, and promise of war;
All the sons of the mountain arise at the note,
qhimarlote, Inyrian, and dark Suliote.
0, who is more brave than the datk Sullote
Inhis snowy caruewe aid his shaggycapotel
To the wolf ad the vulture he leaves his wild fleck,
And descends to the plain, like a stream from the rock;
The mountains that view him descend to the shore
Shall view him as victor, orvilew him no more.")


88                        THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.
indeed, he felt entirely well, excepting when any did he leave the couch of his son until the str,
attempt to move his right arm caused such. geon, declaring that there was no danger, forced
twinges in its shoulder that he was convinced him away. It was well that he went, for he had
he did not dream. Rising, he looked from the lost a.great deal of blood, and then began his
window, when all doubts of his whereabouts mental sufferings. Sin-hardened as he was, he
ceased. The world contains but one Acropolis, shrank in dismay at the thought that he was the
Yes. Taken prisoner by the Turks when found murderer of his child. The sun did not set glo-
among the wounded, he was in the Venitian riously in the west, or rise again in the east, that
Tower at the entrance of the buildings that crown its ruddy tints did not seem to him reflecting
the noblest pedestal of nature, for man's noblest back the hue of guilt; for him the moon nightly
architectural monument. Alexis was a good cast a bloody halo; and the fires of the stars
classical scholar, and he at once recognized al- shone with a, crimson light-as if his crime had
most every feature of the landscape. Almost be reversed the beauties of nature, and had im-
neath him were the Pynx - and the Areopagus; parted the stain of infamy to the whole world.
then came some silvery olive groves, the barren  Alexis was ' rer orted convalescent, and then
plain, the Pirmas, with its shipping, the deep the conscience- stricken parent felt a sense of his
blue water; and in the distance were Egina's deliverance from crime sweep joyously through
Rock, and the*citadel of Corinth. The groves of his soul. It came, overwhelming, as with an in-
the Academy hid the Cephissus; the 'Hill of undating tide, every finer feeling-bursting, with
Collonus recalled the 'CEdipean. tragedy; the foaming wave, over the very sin-dykes of his
Pass of Phylva was a monument of the tyrant's heart, and filling its emptiness with a strange
defeat-in short, the enraptured student saw the medley of tempestuous thoughts. He was grate-
map of Attica unrolled before him, and the his- ful to Providence because he had not slain his
tory of the metropolis of Greece marked by the son-horror-struck at the, very idea of such a
actual scenes of its principal events. crime-sorry that his inordinate thirst for re-
His meditations were interrupted by the en. venge had made him a very demon-agonized,
trance of a soldier, whom Alexis immediately for he felt that the bitter malignity in which his
recognized as the trumpeter who had attended heart had been steeped was undeserving of par-
Osmar Bey at the review, when he had visited donI The strong man wept like a child!I- The
the Turkish camp, near Smyrna. From him the accidental wounding of his son had at last struck
guardsman learned that he had been wounded at home to bis hardened heart with that sharpest of
Platma, and brought to Athens by order of Os- divine weapons-remors3!1
mar Bey.                                     A visit from Alexis was announced; and the
"The bey was wounded himself, Major Or- haughty renegade found his courage fail him as
loff, in the engagement, and, learning from your his attendants propped him up with pillows to
surgeon that you were recovering, he has sent receive his son. His implacable anger against
me-to ascertain if you cannot rise and visit him  Consul Orloff rose, like an icy barrier, before his
in the room below."                        misty eyes. "Courage I" whispered his good
Certainly," replied Alexis, "if you will aid intentions ; "receive your son kindly, and re-
me a little in dressing."                  member that to him that stricken old man has
Meanwhile, Osmar Bey lay in the room be- been a father."  He nerved himself for the in-
seath, a prey.to intense suffering-not that his. terview; yet, when the door opened, it seemed
wound was of a serious character, but because to him that a dagger was plunged into his heart,
he had been a prey to the workingsof a guilty and he sank back upon the pillows almost insen..
conscience since he had seen his son all by a sible.
shot from his own pistol. A moment after the  The guardsman had also endeavored to nerve
deadly messenger had sped from his pistol, he himself for the interview. He was determined
would have given his rank, fortune, all, to have to ascertain the truth of the mystery inwhich
recalled it, for as the object of his -aim fell, he his father's conduct was enveloped ; and, if he
recognized Alexis ! Nerved with'superhuman was implicated in the web of embezzlements
energy,.it was not long ere he obtained posses- woven around the consul's fortune, to demand
non of the insensible form he loved so well, and its restitution. Then he thought of Elissa. But
seat him on a litter to Athens. His own wound no!i His grandfather must first be set right, no
was neglected-what cared he for himself?--nor matter who had done him wrong.

I

THE RUSSIAN
But when, on entering the room, he saw the
once brilliant looking officer stretched upon his
couch, his fine features haggard with the ravages
of feverish anxiety, his eyes dimmed with tears,
and an expression of sorrow playing around his
mouth, lie forgot all, save that his father was
before him. A gush of filial love submerged all
other feelings, and, grasping the extended hand,
he dropped upon his knees at the sufferer's side,
exclaiming:
"My father! my dear father 1-have I found
you at last?"
A  bright flush lit up the invalid's hollow
cheeks, and his listless eye flashed bright, as he
replied :'
Thanks, my dear son, for this kind greeting
to one so unworthy of it. Sit down by me, now,
and let me talk with you."
Alexis seated himself by the bedside, and the
bey, still holding his hand, continued:-
"My son,-O, what joy it givds me so to ad-
dress you,-your grandfather did ime grievous
wrong. He blighted my heart hopes ; he offered
me as a sacrifice upon the altar of his pride; he
separated me from the loved bride of my choice;
and I, miserable and desolate, vowed revenge.
It was my god, to whom I devoted my every
energy. In the stormy ranks of battle, on the
raging seas, among strange companions and
through political intrigues, have I nirsed my
desire to retaliate with ten-fold force ray wrongs.
To gratify the cravings of revenge I forswore
my creed-cringed before, flattered, or command-
ed others-and I succeeded.   I have glutted
my vengeance. upon those who seconded your
grandfather's stern resolve-and he is stripped
of his wealth. But now I humble myself before
you and before my God. Pardon me, AlexisI
-Pardon your unhappy father 1" .    .
"May God forgive you, as I do, my poor fa-
ther I" replied the son, his eyes filled with tears
-for it was evident that his father had known
but little happiness.
Ah! my son, I fear that there is no pardon
for such a vile wretch-conscience, like the light-
ning's flash, came from the bloody field of Pla-
tea, and my impregnable citadel of revengeful
pride is but a blackened ,heap of ashes."
"Will you not see my grandfather ?" inquired
Alexis. " He is as generous as he is good."
A sullen air of gloomy defiance came over the
bey's face at the idea of seeing for pardon before
him to whose hardness of heart he attributed his
whole career of crime. It was a bitter thought

GUARDSMAN.                              .89
but he had chastened his heart, and a convulsive
effort restored tranquillity to his features.
"Alexis, I-"
The struggle was too much for his feeble
frame, and he sank back, a- small current of
frothy blood trickling from his parted lips. His
eyes glared with a fixed stare, and Alexis shouted
loudly for help. Ere the surgeon came, the
young man's wound had opened, and he fell in
a swoon across his father's couch.
The sun was set ere Alexis recovered his con-
sciousness, and, after vainly endeavoring to re-
call the interview- with his father, he fell into a
slumber, from which he did not awake until near-
ly noon the next day. To his great joy, he saw
a well-known form sitting by the window, and
.exclaimed:
"Achmet !-does my father live ?"
"He does," replied the faithful Mameluke,
who had that morning arrived f'om Smyrna, and
had been ordered to attend Alexis. "Nay, he was
in'this room an hour ago, to kiss you ere he left.'
" Left! Where has he gone ?"
" That, major, I cannot tell you. No one but
a man of his iron nerve, and unconquerable will,
would have left his bed for a month after such
an attack as he had last night. But lie is away
this morning-look, he is in yonder felucca."
"And I-am I a prisoner here ?"
"Yes, major; with the surgeon for a jailor,
and myself for a turnkey. The moment you
have served out your sentence you will be lib-
erated."
" Sentence ! what sentence ?" eagerly inquired
Alexis, who could not comprehend his position.
* "Simply, major, that you were accused of ill-
ness, sentenced to remain here until cured, and
ordered to live on rations that will scarcely sup-
port a cat. But when well again-flints and
scabbards 1-but'there will be joy at Malta."
"Has my grandfather arrived there, then I"
"lHe has, major; and is now an occupant of
the same house with Maden'oiselle Elissa?
Alexis sighed.
"It seems," said he, after a moment'&amp; reflee
tion, " that Elissa is my sister."
"e Your sister, major ?" and the old veteran,
rising, approached the bedside; "she is no more
your sister than I am. Where did you get that
idea?"
Did, Alexis hear aright? Again his cup of
joy was filled, and he felt that life had charms.
"I think," said he, "that I shall be able to go
out to-morrow."


MALTA ! Christopher Columbus was not more
rejoiced when the islets of his long dreamed-of
continent rose before him, than was Alexis, when,
far away to the westward, he again' saw Eng-
land's citadel-so long the embattled home of
the m onk-knights.pf St. John. The felucca, hired
by Achmet in the seaport of Athens, was a dull,
heavy sailer; the winds were adverse, and the
young man had almost lost patience when th6y
came in sight of the desired haven. At last he
reached the quay, and Achmet was able to min-
ister to his impatience by conducting him to the
residence of his grandfather-and of Elissa.
Consul Orloff had gone out, but the countess,,
who immediately recognized Alexis, from the
diescriytions she had had of him, invited him to
waik in..
"It is Major Orloff;" said she, "if I mistake
not; and there is a lady in the drawing-room
who -will entertain you until the old gentleman
returns."
Thanking her, Alexis felt his blood course joy-
ously through every vein as he followed her up
the broad staircase, and into a spacious drawing-
room. Entering' alone, he found-not the idol
of his heart, but Zalallah I Yes, it was the Circe
who would have retained him, as he thought,
within the seraglio's walls. -   0
Yet, how different was her appearance. Sor-

row had prematurely blanched her rich trtsses,
whose snowy braids were drawn beneath a plain
white ap, while her black silk dress gave a fine
effect to her beautiful features, mellowed, yet not
defaced by time. ' There was, too, a strong re-
semblance to some one, he knew not who. The
door opened, and in glided Elissa, a bright flush
tinging her cleariclassical face, while her glad-
ness of heart shone out from beneath her long
eye-lashes, as she advanced towards Alexis, hold-
ing out both hands.
"Welcome to Malta, Major Orloff. We had
begun to fear for your safety, and-and your
grandf ther will be rejoiced to see you, looking
so well, too." Then, recollecting herself, she
turned:
"My mother I Major Orloff."
Her mother! Was this mystery never to end
"I have seen Major Orloff before, my dear;
and once endeavored to enlist him in a scheme
for your rescue from Scio ; but he, most ungal-
lantly ran away, to the great. scandal of the se-
raglio."
Alexis was in that unfortunate position which
all occasionally. find themselves in. Ile saw
clearly that he had committed a great blunder,
and, as he feared, an unpardonable one. But
Zalallah soon relieved him from his embarrass-
ment.

WIE IUlSSIAN GUAIWSMA".

Annoying as it was at the time, major, your
evasion proved a blessing. Had you not left so
abruptly, I should not -have seen my daughter."
As she spoke, Elissa stole gently to her side,
and encircling her waist with one of her beauti-
&amp;ld arms, the mother and daughter presented a
charming picture. Just then, in came Consul
Orloff, and in a moment Alexis was clasped in
the old gentleman's warm embrace.
"Thank God for your return, my dear boy,"
said he, tears of joy streaming down his wrinkled
checks. "I feared some accident -might have
happened to you, and that would have been
harder to bear than the loss of fortune. Come,
let us all sit down, and then tell us your adven-
tures. You have made that rascal, Manasseh,
disgorge finely-",
"ManassehI ejaculated Alexis.
" The rascalI But, never mind, he is paying
up well. Only this morning I received a letter
-of credit from Vienna, of some eighty thousand
florins, which he 'deposited there, and now
repays."
"But, my dear sir," interrupted the astonished
young man.
"Not a word-you have managed the matter
capitally."
Then, as if struck by a sudden idea, the old
gentleman jumped up and asked Zalallah if she
would walk down stairs with him, to consult
with the countess about a room for the stranger.
'The request was complied with, and the young!
couple were left alone.
Happy moment 1 Yet each could but remem-
ber the.,shadows that had crossed their paths
since,they last met, and some moments elapsed
before either could find voice to express their
sentiments. They were seated, side by side, up-'
,on an ottoman, and Alexis endeavored to gaze
into her eyes, but the long lashed fringed them,
as she looked steadily into a bouquet -in her hand.
~"Elissa !" he exclaimed, in a deep, passionate
tone, "do not again repulse me. You might
have, thought my manner strange when I urged
my suit before-rash and hasty--well, so the
world might have called it. Common love, I'
know, needs time and grace to perfect it-but
mine, like the fabulous-warriors of Attica, sprang
at once into full existence. I 'loved you then as
I love you now. Now, as then, I offer you an
'honest heart-a haven of repose, where, in its
own goodseason, your love shall flourish, too."
'There swas no reply; bpit Elissa, raising her
head, gazed on him with such tenderness, that

CHAPTER XX.
"Shade by shade Rave glooms decreed,
Westward stars and night have gone;'
Up and up the cimon EAsA
Slowly mounts the golden dawn.
Trancedlies its golden prime,
Dumbwith utterjoy.n

clasping her in his arms, he imprinted burning
kisses upon her lips. They loved I Every life
has points wherein all wandering rays of happi-
ness converge, and now their hearts lay anchored
in a sheltered haven of delight. Each looked
forward through a sunny vista to the joyous hour
when, hand in hand, they would receive a divine
benediction upon their plighted faith.
There were Many explanations that day; many
details of the past ; many hopes for the future.
The description, given by Alexis, of his heart-
stricken father moved the old consul's heart, and
he promised not only to forgive him but to invite
him to visit Smyrna, if they all returned there.
Nor -was Alexis less touched by the sad fate of
Lavalette, who, rascal as he was, had been a
father to his Elissa.
A  few weeks passed  almost ippereeptibly
away while the necessary preparations for the
wedding were in progress. Almost every post
brought the consul advices of some investment
in his favor, made by Manasseh, and they all
concluded that the repentant Osmar Bey had
forced the accomplice 'of his vengeance to dis-
gorge his ill-gotten wealth. Alexis received much
attention from the British officers of-the garrison,
but 'gladly escaped from their festivities to the
side of Elissa, whose intelligent eyes sparkled
with the pleasing excitement of her feelings.
Ier dimpled mouth; with its pearly teeth, seemed
made to smile on her betrothed, nor could any-
thing exceed the cheerful music of. her joyous
laugh, that thrilled through the heart of Alexis
like the light carol of a bird. Basking in the
sunlight of her smiles, his existence was like the
smooth water' of a lily-bordered lake, where the
beautiful flowers are reflected in thQ pellucid ele-
ment from whence they derive their sustenance.
Captain Paskewitsch had been' ordered to
Greece, for Nicholas, who had ascended the im-
perial throne of Russia, considered that to de-
prive Turkey of her most productive colony was
in reality weakening the Ottoman bold upon
Constantinople. Bravely did the Greeks main,
,tain the unequal struggle, with a glorious hope of
national resurrection, and soon the cannon of the
allied fleet at Navarino proclaimed the new ad-
vent of Greece among nations. The "Nicolai"
was the Russian flag-ship, and her gallant com..
mander won loud eulogiums for the able manner
in which he manoeuvred her during the action.
At last the bridal morning dawned I The glo.-
rious sun rode qp triumphantly upon his Oriental
throne, and as the cathedral bells-.commenced


93                THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.,

their matin-peal, the "Nicolai" came proudly
into the harbor, her saluting- cannon adding to
the announcement of the day. Long before she
was, free from the enveloping clouds of smoke,
the steady pulls of the stalwort crew of her first
cutter had brought her commander to the'shore,
and when the consul and his grandson came to
the breakfast table, each found an ominous-look-
ing government missive on their plates.,
"What can it be !" said Alexis, slightly-
changing coler-for Siberia, with all its horrors,
is ever before the subjects of the autocrat.
"I will soon tell you what mine is," replied
the consul, breaking the seal, and reading the
enclosed despatch. It was thus worded:
"Whereas I' Nicholas, Autocrat of the Rus-
sias, and Head of the Greek Church, have every
reason to be satisfied with your conduct as our
consul, at Smyrna, from which post you are
hereby dismissed, I constitute you a count of our
empire, with an annual pension suitable to your
rknk."
"His majesty is very kind," continued the
consul, "but I should have preferred the simple,
title of 'consul,' with my old residence. Who is
its fortunate possessor now, I wonder? I envy
him, for no other house in Smyrna will ever
seem like home to me?',
"And what is-your order, Alexis ?" asked the
countess, while Elissa, with tearful eyes, gazed'
at the paper with apprehension.
Alexis broke the seal, read the enclosure, and
then, as if-in doubt, re-read it. * Give me joy "
he exclaimed, and he read:
"Whereas I, Nicholas, Autocrat of all the
Russias, and Head of the Greek Church, have
learned the faithful services of your venerable
grandfather as our consul, at Smyrna, and are
likewise familiar with your merits, I hereby ap.
point you his successor, and order you to, repair
to Smyrna at once, where instructions will await
you."
"Long live the emperor!"said the elder Orloff.
" Grandfather, you will not have to move from
the consulate, after all," said Alexis.
Overjoyed at this pleasing intelligence, the
happf group sat chatting around the.ta19e, entil
the arrival of Elissa's bridesmaids sent all to
their toilets.
"Don't hurry, major," growled Aehmet,
through his moustache. "Flints and scabbards!
there'll be no wedding until you go to the cathe-
dral."
Already had the bells, with joyous peal sun,

moned the noble and the fair, the gallant and the.
beautiful to the cathedral, where once the bold
knights knelt in prayer. Nor was it many mo.
ments after the appointed hour, ere the- bridal
party made its way through the crowd,welcomed
by the gladsome notes 4f the choir, and the deep,
full notes of the organ.
Elissa, the observed of all observers, was
beautiful beyond the usual measure of bridal
loveliness, as she moved through the cathedral,.
like a wild swan floating on the waters. The.
softness-of her full eye, the coral richness of her,
rose-tinted lips, and the rapid succession of mod-
est blushes that occupied her soft, full checks,
were charms that, would require the peculiar
power of Titian's pencil to portray. Her glossy
hair seemed struggling, in ils profusion, to escape-
from the wreath of orange-blossoms with which
it was confined. Neither did theigauzy folds of
a long veil conceal her radiant features, as it fell
low over the plain white satin robe that fitted
closely to the outlines of her matchless- form.
As she stood before the altar, her figure in per-
feet repose, with the roseate flush of love tinging
the alabaster-like purity of her face end her arms,
the most envious among her own sex admired
her, while many a gallant officer envied her
bridegroom.
Alexis was no less an object of admiration, as
he, stood flushed with moral intoxication, and
pledged his troth to the trembling one at his.
side. A playful smile upon his lips bespoke the
joy of his heart, and yet he could but feel sol-
emnly as vowed, at that holy altar, to love, to
cherish, and to protect his wedded wife. Amid
the deluge of his recent troubles, and perils, and
anxieties, her love had been the ark which had
borne him above the waters, and in his heart he
prayed for divine aid in keeping his solemn
vows.
Little thotight the happy group around the
altar, that among the spectators was one in whom,
all took a deep interest. It was Osmar Bey, the
renegade, who, for the first time since he had
abjured Christianity, had entered a Christian
church. Well disguised, he had obtained a seet
where he could witness the ceremony,and he felt
every nerve thrill as the solemn service proceed-
ed. At last, all was over, and the organ poured
out a perfect deluge of pyo"s notes, rolling in
gladness along the vaulted roof, while the choir
burst forth into that thanksgiving anthem: "0,
come, let us sing unto the LordI Let us heartily
rejoice in the strength of His, salvation"  Com-

forted and strengthened, he joined the throng,
congratulating the happy pair; and there, at the
altar, the mystery was solved-Osmar Bey was
Manasseh! Manasseh existed not, save in the
disguise of Osmar Bey. Moved by an impulse,
the bride and bridegroom knelt at his-feet, and
felt his :scalding tears as he leaned over them.,
When they arose he was gone!f -
The elder Orloff, restored to his fortune, again
took the - lead of the Levantine commerce, al-
though he never entrusted his books to another's
care, enjoying the society of his grandchildren.
His temporary embarrassment, when the causes
were guessed at, but strengthened his credit, and
he enjoyed what he most coveted-the confidence

and esteem which invariably attend on mercan-
tile integrity. Osmar Bey was never seen after
his appearance, disguised as Manasseh, at -the
wedding of Alexis. It was ascertained that-
probably a victim to remorse-he had carefully
restored all the funds abstracted from the capital
of Consul Orloff, and then, with an idiotic at-
tendant, who was ever talking of book-keeping,
h'e had gbne into Upper India. His after fate
was unknown. Perhaps his repentant spirit fled
amid some raging storm of fire and steel, with
the proud cheer of victory as a requiem ; or else,
without a fond hand to close his eyes, he sank
peacefully to rest in his new home,

TUE END,

10

THE RUSSIAN GUARDSMAN.


[FROM  " THE FLAG OF OUR UNION.']
HUGO VON EHIRENFELS.
A RHE.NISH TALE.
BY JAMES DE MILLE.'
CHAPTER 1*
THE Rhine flowed along in its loveliness at and precipitous on every side but one, it was a
the base of the lofty cliff of Ehrenfels, the dash- place such as a baron in the feudal ages might
ing of its waves against the rock mingling with have viewed with rapture.  Its characteristics
the sound of the sweetest 'music of Nature. It had not been entirely unnoticed.  Advantage
flowed' then as now, among sublime cliffs and had been taken of its uncommon situation, and,
lovely valleys,winding its tortuous course through upon the- ery crest towered a noble and mighty
the one, and watering the other till they were castle. It appeared magnificently as it rose in
arrayed in the beauty of Paradise. Calm and its vast strength, so far above all surrounding
peaceful was the charming landscape of which objects; its massive walls and lofty turrets tell-
the Rhine formed a part; seldom was it disfig- ing of might, which, like the rocky foundation-,
ured by the tempests that prevail in less favored might brave the utmost fury of the elements.
spots. Yet amid its quiet beauty, the rude Upon each of the four towers floated a standard,
shocks - of battle were often seen, and the wild with a wolf, the emblem of the family of Ehren-
strife of warriors disturbed its harmony, more fels, a golden wolf on an azure field.
terrible, more destructive than'tempest or flood;  Farther down the river upon a lower cliff,
for while the latter leaves behind every visitation was another castle, less massive than that of
beneficial influences, the former produces only Ehrenfels, but strong, and adapted excellently
sterility and desolation.                   to the wants of a less powerful baron. This
Upon the eastern bank of the river rose up was the castle of the Feitung race, related in a
the towering cliff of Ehrenfels,-rugged and ma- distant degree to the Ehrenfels. Along the sides
jestic. It was worn by the shocks and warfare of the, river, upon the loftiest cliffs, were those
of countless tempests, and was most solemn in formidable castles whose romantic rivers now ar-
its hoary and venerable appearance. Isolated rest the gaze of every traveller. Through the
in part from the smaller rocks around it, steep .4ay the noise of music, of shouting, and often-

HUGO VON El3NFE.

times of revelling resounded far over the hills
and valleys, and by night, the ever burning
watchfires flashed and glowed in the smooth sur-
face of the river. It was a glorious, a poeticaL
scene, impressive at all times to the imagina-
tion; a scene which in those days) and in our
times, has drawni forth the genius of poet and
painter.
Among all the youths of the Rhenish castle,
none was braver or more accomplished than the
noble Hugo von Ehrenfels. Left fatherless at a
tender age, his education devolved upon his
mother and grandfather. The last of his race,
they viewed with the most tender solicitude the
early years of Hugo's life, and taught him all
the manly arts and attainments of that warlike
age. None could shoot the arrow more uner-
ringly than he; none'could more ably manage a
fiery steed, or use more, expertly the heavier
arms. While lugo was almost perfect in all
these bolder and rougher pursuits, he also pos-
sessed qualities whichfew could boast of in that
illiterate age. He had learnt the wonderful se-
cret of reading and writing from the chaplain of
the castle. From the wandering minstrels and
the aged bards of his home, he had acquired the
noble art of uttering his warm emotions in im-
passioned verse, aid could vie with his teachers
in the singing of songs of love, war or pleasure.
Thus it was that Hugo's name was spoken with
admiration everywhere, and that he was the
pride of his family, the envy of his companions,
and the love of many a beauteous maiden. Such
mingled accomplishments however, did not
cause him to become vain or boastful, but they
showed in a strong relief the modesty and great-
ness of his soul.
There was one who had fixed unalterably his
affections, and that one was worthy of his love.
She was a beautiful, impassioned girl, earnest
and affectionate as she was .lovely. They had
been brought up in the same castle from early
years, for the same blow which had renidered
Hugo fatherless, had left Hulda an orphan.
Her castle was kept by an ancient friend of her
father's in trust for tlke child. "She was one of
those lovely beings such as we see in marble, or
on the canvass,'amohg the -most priceless treas-
ures of art. . Her hair was dark, and fell down,
in floods upon her shoulders Nqr eyes were in-
tensely black, yet sft and melting as those of
a gazelle; and her features were of that style
called Grecian-as faultless as those of -the
sculptor's ideal.

They had long been happy in the knowledge
of one another's affection, and one year more
would usher in their bridal day; the day which
would join the two lovers and the estates of Man-
nafore and Ehrenfels. Thus would the fondl
hopes of Hugo's noble mother be fulfilled, and
her maternal love for Hulda be entirely satisfied.
The Baron von   eitung sat in his chamber
with his sister. He was a dark and gloomy
man in his appearance. There was a sinister
expression in his countenance, which was height-
ened by a wound upon the forehead, received
during some conflict. His sister possessed the
same stern countenance, though the expression
was somewhat softened by feminine nature. The
Feitung family did not mingle much with the
nobles around them. They were seldom present
at any feast or general convocation. They were
spoken of as base, and treacherous, and their
aversion for society was returned by the objects
of it. Yet there was one place which Von Fei-
tung seemed to like, and that was Ehrenfels.
His visits there were frequent. Hugo was often
cautioned against him, but his honest nature re-
pelled every thought that niight be injurious to
his friend. Yet there were some who thought
that in his visits to Ehrenstein, something be-
sides courtesy was intended, and that something
more than a respect for Hulda lurkcd,in his
bosom.
"I cannot," said he to his sister, after a long
silence, "I cannot divest myself of this powerful
feeling which has taken so strong a possession
of my heart. I cannot overcome it. I must
yielo to its power."
" You cannot !" cried his sister in scorn. "Is
this the strength of your manhood? Be a man.
Call up the power of your will and overcome
your desires."
"Talk on, sister-talk on-but I must say
that if my own energy cannot of itself overcome
my passion, your words will be useless. Hulda,
O if I could but obtain her-by Jove twill ob-
tain her, even if I have to scale the rock of
Ehrenstein alone."
"Hulda I" said his sister. "Shame for one
like you to be overcome by a love for so puny
and weak a creature. . ShameI- Must a man go
crazy about a baby, and talk of scaling the rock
of Ehrenstein "
"Do not speak so to me," cried Von Feitung,
savagely. "I swear by Heaven that I will nev2^

i

I


er cease from efforts to gain by fair means or
flul, the beautiful girl. Can I control the fires
that spring up and burn so furiously within me 1'
Teil the winds to be cilm."
"Bow do you hope to'do it?" said his siste-,
with an effort to be calm.
"I know not yet. I will continue and study,
every way to gain my object. But it will be a
hard task. If they were-not so intimate-if they'
had not known one another so long, then jeal-
ousy, or suspicion, or misrepresentation might
divide them."
"fGo on," she' said; with stronger efforts at
calmness.,
hBut this cannot be done. The fool of a boy
has what they call an honest disposition.  He
cannot think ill of others. I must try other
means."
"What other means?"
A dark, a fearful gloom came over his coun-
tenance.
"Brother,"  cried she, starting up, unable
longer to control herself, "brother, you shall
not.' What, are you -fallen so low, and is all
honor --so dead within you, that you would
dard to think of foul injury to Ehrenstein0? 0,
can the blood of our race become so vile-? You
are not my brother. You' are some false preten-
der, some changeling of a nurse. - Listen-if the
slightest evil befall young Hugo, then you may
dread the vengeance of your sister I"
Feitung looked after her as she retired from
the room, but said not a word.
After her departure, he rose from his seat and
walking up to the terrace, paced up and down
for a long time, buried in thought. Sometimes-
hii stood leAning over the battlement, and gazed
silently at the river. Again he would turn
away and walk on.
Yes," he muttered slowly, clenching his,
hand, and standing immoveably. "I will do-
it, and the next year shall see Hlda the bride
of Feitung, or -else I shall be the destroyer of
my life, for I cannot endure the sufferings which
I now feel."
Music came stealing on the breeze down the
river froin Ehrenstein, now risingloud and high,
now falling and dying away in the distance. It
was evening, and the river was tranquil, the
moon shone from an unclouded sky, and all Na-
ture was lying in calm repose. The watchfires
gleamed like stars from the summits of baronial

castle, and blazed most brightly from the tow-
ers of Ehrenstein.' At the base of the keep
Hugo stood, accompanying the notes of a guitar,
with a voice which sounded melodiously all
Around. He stood beneath the window of Hul-
da's apartment, aid looked up to catch a glimpse
of his love. While Feitung was so busily form-
ing his dark designsagainst his happiness, Hugo,
unconscious of danger, sang this little love song:
"L TeMioon on hIgh Illumes the sky,
And soft'the b~rze comes o'er the mountains;
I hear the flow of waves below,
Ihear'the sound of gushing fountains.
A d far and wide, on every side,
Harmonious music charms mine ear;
All, all arountd,,the soothing sound
Of Nature's melody I hear.
"Look from above, my own true love,
And from the turrt bending over,
List to my lay, and 0 display
Thy beauty to thy longing lover.
For though I love to vidw above.
The glories of the summer sky,,
Yet lovelier far than every star,,
h the bright-glance of Hulda's eye."
" Hugo," said a gentle voice above him.
Hulda," cried Hugo.
"Sing on," said Hulda. "I would not dis-
turb you, for I love to hear your voice."
"How would my poor song sound with the'
music of your voice,'my Hulda?" said Hugo.
After a short conversation, Hugo entered the
castlIand with Hulda walked about the terrace,
talking -over a thousand plans which future time
would give opportunity to execute.-
"I like not that Feitung," said Hulda, after a
pause. "I am afraid of him. I cannot endure
the glances which he casts atme. I fear that his
-thoughts bode no good."
"If he has dared to-"
"No, not'that. He is always respectful. But
I want'you to be more watchful of him, and be
on your guard. Do not get into his power."
"His power?   What power has he?    But I
fear him not, and I would not have suspicion of
him. You are too timid, my Halda."
"Perhaps'so--but 0 Hugo, I fear something
unfortunate will come to ms through this man.
His keen, searching, hurried glances at me, and
the dark scowls which sometimes are cast at you,,
are fearful; and cannot but betoken harm."
" That is only in his disposition. He is a
very gloomy man, you know, but do -not let us
talk of this. I promise to take care of myself.
Come, drive away your anxiety-clouds do not

El

mJOO VON EflUNVrES.

become you, and they prevent the sun of your
favor from shining on me."
Happy interview. Long was the weary time
that passed away before they had another meet-
ing, so happy--and bitter was the sorrow which
both were doomed to feel before their loving eyes
should meet. And Halda seemed to dread this,
for the evening farewell was spoken in sad and,
sorrowful tones, which caused a like emotion
even in the joyous and cheerful heart of Hugo.
Every morning at early dawn, Hugo was ac-
customed to go out alone, and with his bow and
arrows to bring down 'birds, or shoot the stag
upon which he might come by stealth. Often he
would go to the foot of the cliff, and swim in the
river, or lie upon th6 bank engaged in pleasing
reflections.
On the morning after his departure froni
Hulda, he came down to the river side at a dis-
tance from the castle, about half way between it
and that of Feitung. Here he reclined upon the
bank, and soon was deeply engaged in thinking
,ipon one favorite theme-the beautiful Hulda,
He thought of her last words. "Yes, I will be
more careful," he muttered to himself. "I do
not like to hear of'his sinister glances at myself,
and particularly at Hulda. If he is my. friend,
why does he act so strangely?  Perhaps it is
nothing, but at any rate I will watch him."
A)crackling among the bushes arrested his
attention. He turned quickly round, but seeing
nothing, again busied himself in pleasing thought
Another rustling and crackling he heard,-but h4
did not notice it. At last there was the noise of
,steel close beside him. .Quick as lightning h
turned, and saw a number of men close to him,
who, before he could move, or even utter an ex
clamation of surprise, seized him, bound him,
gagged him, and taking him in their arms, bore
him down the river. All this was done in ad
incredibly short space of time, so that thought
and action were impossible. In the utmost as-
tonishment and indignation, he endeavored
to burst his bonds, but they were too strong.
The men who were carrying him were masked
and armed to the teeth. He did .not know what
kind of men they were, or to whom they belong-
ed, for there was'no badge upon them by ,which
to judge. One who seemed to be their leader,
walked apart, apparently anxious to avoid die.
covery. While narrowly examining this man'a
fggre, and walk, a thought &amp;ashed across Hi
g's mind, which chilled his blood. Yet this

thought was instantly driven away, and would
perhaps not againhave been entertained, haditnot
been that this man's face was at times turned
toward the prisoner.  He wore a mask which
reached to the mouth, but that mouth with its
savage expression, rendered fiercer by a scar
over the chin, could be no other than that of
Feitung.
Then Hugo knew all-knew the villain who
was carrying him off in this base manner. Then
the words of Hulda returned*to his memoryo-
her'suspicions, her description of Feitung's looks,
'all came before him.' But he did' not know
whither they were carrying him--whether to
death or captivity. He feared the villany of
this man, and with agonizing thoughts he vainly
tried to banish his anxiety for Hulda. Ehren-
stein was strong, and all its guards were faithful,
but he knew that rocky-cliffs and massive walls
were no protection against the insidious wiles of
cunning.
They carried him on,  nd he soon saw they
were directing their course toward a creek where
among the trees that shaded its branches, he siw
the mast of a vessel.
They came to-the creek and placed Hugo on-
board, carrying him down below where none
might see him. The leader conversed with them
long and earnestly, apparently giving them Oi-
.reetions, and after bidding them adieu, he left,
and mounting upon a steed that was standing
near, he rode swiftly towards the castle of
Feitung.
The-men prepared. to depart.  They pushed
the vessel out, into the river, hoisted the sgl,
bent to their oars, and so with wind and the
swift current, they rapidly passed d&amp;wn the river,
Hugo struggled long to break his bonds-ie
groaned at the gag which prevented him from
speaking or shouting; he pulled and strained at
the fastening of his hands, till his wrists bled
with the violence. Many hours he lay there a
helpless captive, amid -friendly and powerful ba-
ronial castles, which rose upon either bank of
the river. And he, the mighty lord oflh'renfels,
who -could count six -hundred retainers within
his, castle, even in peaceful times-he, who a few
hours ago, could summon to his aid hosts. of
noble friends-was now as helpless as his most
miserable serf. Had a king. thus sent him into
captivity, even then his mortification and ven-
geance would -have been great,-but to be over-
eome by the inferior lord of Feitung-it was too
much !

HUQO VON EHRENFELS.


98

-ILUGO YO 9HREN1ro S-

But the first bitter pangs passed away, and,
calling up his fortitude, he eptdeavored to meet
his fate with firm resolution. After several days
they came out into the sea. During this time
the gag had remained fastened on him, except
rhen food was given him. - But now, when it
sea, he was let loose from his chains, and allow-
ed to walk about the deck. He attempted to
converse with some of the men, but could not
understand them. By what he could gain from
them by signs, however, he found out that they
were Northmen, who, sailing up the Rhine in,
quest of adventures, hail been brought over by
Feitung-for this purpose.
He attempted to make them change their pur-
pose, and carry him back, by offering them
great treasure. But these men, jealous of their
word of promise, even in a villanous undertak-
ing, utterly refused all his offers.
Many days they sailed over the sea, beaten
about by wind and storm, and tossed-by the an-
gry waves of the Northern sea, but at-last the
rugged cliffs of Norway appeared in the distance,
hailed with joy by these northern warriors, but
with deep despair by Hugo.
He was carried to Drontheim, where at that
:inte King,-Olaf-ruled. Beingno ordinary pris-
oner, the king took an interest in him, and in.
stead of making him a slave, lodged himwithin
the walls of-his own' castle.: Soon the story lof
his wrongs was- told, and the indignant monarh
swore by all that was holy in Scandinavia, td
restore' Hugo to his home.- "As for-youri-e-
venge," criEd Olaf, "I will not interfere there'"
The-fame of Hugo; his wrongs, his beauty,
and -rmanly accomplishments -were sbon known
-f-and wide.-
AHis - wonderful dexterity-with the -arrow, and
'Javelifia with swordand shield, km horse and foot,
made him the admirationof this land of warriors,.
And above all his skill iniinstrelsy, united with-
so' many other - qualities, brought him honor,
Asdong those northern princes, songs and music
-- ere always- loved, for thus the ,deeds?6f war-
riors were told; -and thus the praisesof their godhs
'were-sung. And while the.skilds in Olaf's court
sang tleir lofty-strainst of the - deeds of vikings'
the harp of-Hugo was tuned- to songs of the
%Iattifal ladies and valiant barons of the Rhine
When Harold my'son returns, -he shall take
yodihote," said OlafE     -
1. VIax'bld, in-accordance with. the eustom- of his
people, hed sailed away on a viking expedition.
Three years had passed since hisyatuire;and

in less than a year he was expected home laden
with the spoils of the South.
CHAPTER II.
After Hugo's seizure, the people at Ehrenstein
were thrown into a fearful state of anxiety. Day
after day they awaited, his return, but still he
came not. . The news of this misfortune spread
over the valley-of the Rhine, and many a friend-
ly baron sat out to search for him. A week
passed away, a month, two months, and all
hope of his life departed. All thought that the
noble baron of Ehrenstein would never again be
found.
Yet his mother hoped amidst her sorrow, and
vainly tried to imagine - that some accident less
terrible than death had befallen her beloved son.
But she grew paler and paler, and her heart
grew sick with the continuance of this suspense.
But there was one whose grief would not be
appeased; one whose heart was struck with a
heavier and more overwhelming blow. Along
the terrace, day after day, for many a long month,
Hulda walked, and gazed far away down-the
river, as if watching for his return.
-Many friends of the afflicted' family came -to
offer their condolence, and among them all note
-came ftener, or appeared more sympathizing
than the'Baron von Feitung. His countenaiee
wore a gloomier - expression, as'though sorrow
for Hugo's fate oppressed his sopl. - -
Hulda received them, but shuddered when-
ever'Feitung was'near, as though in him she re-
cognized, the' destroyer of her lover.' Often,
when' left alone with him in his nu merous visits,
she retired *ith-the plea of weakness. Feitung
endtired all her coldness with a constancy that
was wonderful in him. Yet he could not do so
always.
Once-she was- about to retir, when Feiting
implored her-to stay for one moment. Thinking
-tht lierhaps he wouid say something about
ingo, she remained.
Feittdig spbke in a deep voice, that sho*6d
his intense emotion. ~ . '
- "Lady julda, 'tis vain to mourn the dead,
always. - Count Hugo is dead, 'and peace be to
hiis embry. Yet why do you all mour-nsfoi
him without ceasing-  A- brave knight is better
after death.- Listen: to me. This castle has no
lord. Your castle has none but yourself-",
"Stop," cried Hulda. -Baron, von Feitung,

I

HVGO VON I
my castle and this have owners, who are as ca-
pable of defending it as any baron,-when they
are surrounded by faithful retainers. Now leave,
me, for I must go."
"One moment more-O grant me a moment!"
cried Feitung, and kneeling before her, he en--
deavored to retain her with passionate gestures.
But she sprang to her feet, and darting at him
a glance of intense hatred and scorn, rushed
from the apartment. Feitung rose, and with a
fearful expression of vengeance, slowly left the
castle, and retired to his home.
The beauty of Hulda became less day by day,
her strength failed, andalways melancholy, she
walked that memorable terrace, or remained
within her chamber. Every room, every scene
within the. castle was associated with the memory
of her lover-and without, the bleautiful scenes
on every side spoke only of him. At last, unable
to endure such continual sorrow, she sought
some release'by absence, and leaving the place
where she and Hugo had been so happy, she
departed to her own castle.
It was situated about ten miles from Ehrep-
stein, at a distance from the Rhine, and by situ-
ation and fortifications was exceedingly strong.
Here her aged seneschal dwelt, and kept it safe
from all attacks of hostile bands. In this se-
eluded place she hoped to overcome her bitter
sorrow, and thought that the distance of those
scenes which brought to her the memory of Hu-
go would give peace to her mind.
Ten monthshad passed away, and Hugo came
not. Feitung had been busy with some dark
scheme for a long time, and it was noticed that
an unusual number of soldiers hovered about his
eastle.4
One morning, Hulda sat gazing from the bat-
tlements of her castle, and looking at the scene
which 'lay beneath.  Soon she was aware of
a distant noise like the march of a numerous
troop. Turning her eyes in that direction, she
saw the cause.of the noise. From out a defile, a
long and martial procession came winding into
the plains below to the sound of the trumpet.
The complete armor of the men, and the flags
that waved, told of an attacking party. Scarcely
had she seen it, when the bell of the castle sound-
ed out its alarm. Her soldiers came rushing to
the ramparts, arms were collected, and all was
made ready for defence.
- The- approaching troop halted at a short dis-
tance, and a herald came forth bearing the de-
vice of the Feitung family. -

EHRENFELS.                            '  9
"In the name of Waldo, Baron von Feitung,
I demand the hearing of the Lady Hulda."
" The Lady Hulda hears you," cried the
seneschal.
" The Baron von Feitung tenders his love and
devotion to the Lady Hulda, and lays himself
and his castle at her feet."
" Tell him," said  Iulda, "that my posses-
sions are already largely and-do not want the ad-
dition of Feitung."
"Then will the noble Lord Waldo, Baron
von Feitung, add this castle and the Lady Hal-
da to his own."
" Let him come and try," cried the stout old
seneschal.
The soldiers came on to the attack, while those
in the castle stood ready to receive them. Large
bodies rushed on at every side, bearing scaling
ladders, and endeavoring to climb up' the sides.
They battered-at thewalls, they thundered at
the gates, arrows and darts flew around, and the
clash of sword against sword, the clang of spear
and shield, resounded on every side, mingled
with the shouts of the warring hosts. The strife
was kept up through the day with incredible en-
ergy. The brave defenders of the castle fell
fighting' on every side, but far greater numbers
of the enemy were slain.
At night the attack ceased, and Feitung, with
his men, encamped upon the plain not far
away.
All were watchful through) that night. The
guard was large, and often relieved, for there
was much fear of a night attack.
/ All, however, was peaceable; button the fol-
lowing morning the attack was renewed. Fei-
tung came at the head of his men, encouraging
them as they came furiously to the strife. On
one side, a large body of men with ladders and
ropes again endeavored to scale the walls. On
another, the soldiers by hovering around, feigned
an attack. In another part they undermined the
foundation, and sought to make a breach in the
massive walls. At the gate, Feitung himself
fought, conspicuous by his tall stature and the
black plume, of his helmet. The slaughter on
both sides was severe opi this day. A large
breach was made in the wall, many of the men
of Hulda were killed or wounded. The enemy
lost men, but on account of their greatly superior
numbers,they were better able to bear the loss.
Hulda's anxiety was great. In her extremity
she could think of only one way of escape, and
that was by sending some one to Ehrenstein. for


iewed Ihe .uM
her own, initli
v mus   '
e a eqr of the b
ett e'The b
aiously to the
"d while the la
reow of frm th
-ray.
-aga n~.and I
a trody of wa
Wej au$r$

d^  Itw;    "Ew     il, on to nwshout
'was   E     go.
to her bu   - " oi-way  d&amp;- the "V6i cred thie
deep toned voice of Harold.
6asfroW   l M    if *rtieveIlled'spersg Ruud n ishft battles
'             i a des; they cdtne 'with the f8de of-  _1fthern
44'eitulfg blast p&amp;n tOUighnshed folloWesofmaet *g,
-I  number  who  coolio %ithstsud the charge  They
ybutith wavered, ta thii garrison fthe castle pouing
yied,      dfot~, Completed'their defeat
hlibrnhills    Hiirold; tith his wd-edged battle-axe, b84r4
pe   which, down all who opposeA hin, and Hugo, enraged
atie, put an at the' sight 6fi eneing*ddhihsearthough
esiegers and the shield and "pited  inoro- to the heart 6f
spot whence the base Feitung.

ter gatiereq
ie east sd#d
rri    ehiud
is-friends
Swo lf.Of

en the gallantwarrior
reit thiirhead, their
age lalb ndsiving   em

Thid *0  iisgs and festive at hren
stein aifbwrweeks afteAiMrd. Feastiitinaiyd'dai
ing prevailedwithin, an&amp;lioutHaifld and his
folo~ers mingld the sport s  evikiwiigs'With
lo(  heaitr 'kuhts. Flags wavedlb4e
freeze front every dor' and d1et, andjthe
castle looi were ,lung id  aspitlity for
Hugo ha returned, and iilidA wa' ignited to
the neble Baron von Ehrntein.

to i
.9'.  V
  9  5 ts t 91
"no
9,.        ','
A 9.',
U,32

9..

9'

T4

4'

"771.

I '~ ~92~~2  ~ A 94         4


  
             
         
       
   
