
    ----CITATION----
        Richards, A.. Zilla Fitz James, the Female Bandit of the South-West, or, The Horrible, Mysterious and Awful Disclosures in the Life of the Creole Murderess, Zilla Fitz James ... .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7567
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Zilla Fitz James, the female bandit of the South-West, or, The horrible, mysterious and awful disclosures in the life of the Creole murderess, Zilla Fitz James ... 
            
                   ZILLA FITZ JAMES, FEMALE BANDIT OF THE SOUTH-WEST, OR, THE HORRIBLE, MYSTERIOUS, AND AWFUL DISCLOSURES IN THE LIFE OF THE OREOLE MERDRBERS, ZILLA FITZ JAMES, PARBMOUR AND ACCOMPLIOE OF GREEN H.' LONG, THE TREBLE MURDERER, FOR -THE SPAOE OF SEIE YEAR. AN AUTOBIOGRAPHCAL NARRATIVE, EDITED BY REV. A. RICHARDS, "TTLE ROCK, ARK. PUBLISHED BY A. R. ORTON. 1862.      THE following letter was written by Zilla Fitz James, at the City of Mexico, and sent^ to Green H. Long, at Little Rock Jail along with the manuscript from which the narrative of her dark and dreary life is com- piled, by the Rev. A. Richards* PURT. sts CITY OF Mexico, June 7th, 1851. DEAR GREEN,-It pains me exceedingly to learn -of your incarceration in that vile dungeon at Little Rock. By the merest chance in the world, I have just possessed myself of the New Orleans Picayune, which contains an account of your trial and conviction at Little Rock, for the treble murder of Colonel Darcy and his two lovely daughters- Beatrice and Juliet. So far as regards the perpetration by you of such an unheard-of deed, nothing is strange to me. But to learn that you, who was always so lucky in escaping from justice, whilst carrying on a graceless and Satanic life for a period of eleven years, fills me'with many curious thoughts and' specula- tions. That I love you deeply and devotedly, I have given you abundant proof, although you basely deserted, after swearing by all things, earthly and divine, that you never would desert me while fife should last. How- ever, I will not add to your cup of bitterness, by reproaching you for your inconstancy, as it was probably wisely ordained by Heaven, that it might work the reformation of both. For a time after your departure, I felt very gloomy, sad, and lonely. While in that mood of despondency, something kept whispering me to write my life, and have it published, that it might save many from the awful vortex into which I had fallen, and that I might, by so doing, atone in part for the many sins that I have committed. I at once sat down and com- -menced the task. As I progressed, I saw vividly what an awful gulf I had fallen into, and began to despise myself. When I had written the most of it, I determined to enter the nunnery, take the veil, and spend the remainder of my days in sincere and heartfelt sorrow for my many offences against God and man. And believing that you will give a confession, which will be published, I herewith send you the narrative of my'life, to read, and then have it published, at the same time yours is, as I have been your accomplice for'years. I send it forth to the world, believing that many may learn a salutary lesson, and shun the ways of sin and death. Now, hoping that this may find you repentant, and full of sorrow for the past, and that, if we cannot see each other again this side the grave, that we may be forgiven, and at last meet, where parting shall be no more. Adieu; remember me. 7TILLTA FITZ . JAME,S.,   i t   ZILLA FITZ JAMES. I was born in New Orleans, May 17th, 1827, of respectable parents. My father was a dealer in tobacco, snuff, and segars, and kept a store in Poydras street, at the time of my birth. But I was doomed not to know much 6f a parent's care, for when only four years of age, that scourge of the south-the yellow fever, crossed our threshold, and bereft me of both father and mother, at one fell swoop, leaving me an orphan at that tender age. Fortunately or unfortunately for me, as will be seen by the reader anon, I was taken and adopted by an aunt, my motier's sister, who was a widow. I was too young at the demise of my parents to recollect much about them, still I have a faint recol lection, and that recollection is strengthened, so far as regards my mother, by a small miniature that I have of her, in a locket that I am told she hung upon my neck the day she died and to which I have ever clung as a talisman. There is a holy some- thing about the miniature that fills me with joy and grnef, awe and reverence, as I gaze upon it. It is the picture of her that gave me birth, nursed, cherished, and doted upon me in early infancy. How lovely and heavenly she seems to look upon her only child, with those coal black eyes. How placid and angelic is her countenance! Those who watched with her during her illness say, that she freely parted with the world and all else beside, with the exception of me. It wa ad hard struggle for her to part with me, her only child. She died with a prayer on her lips for me, commending me to the Most High. From the grave which contained the twain, I went to the hoise; of my aunt, a splendid mansion in Canal street, gorgeously fur- nished from cellar to attic. At first, I was inclined to be restive and peevish, cried for my mother, and wanted to go home, My aunt was very kind to me, and caressed me much, which soon made me forget what had passed. I soon began io look upon her as my mother, and was taught to call her so. Time wore on, lad I grew in years and in stature. When 1 had arrived at the age of six years, my aunt engaged a young lady by the name of   Lucy Wilkins, from Boston, as a governess, and I was put under her tuition., I was an uncommonly handsome child, and withal had a most excellent temper,.so I won at once the heart of Miss Wilkins, who spared no pains to instruct me, and I mastered with rapidity every task that she gave me, so that at the age of ten my aunt concluded to send me to a boarding school up the river to finish my education, as Miss Wilkins had it in contemplation to return, at that time, to Boston, to spend the summer with her relatives. I liled the arrangement very much, all but partin with Miss Wilkins. I had become endeared to her by her kindg ness to, and patience with me for four long years, and thus re- gretted the separation, fearing that it would be forever. How- ever, it was all arranged. Miss Wilkins returned to Boston, and I went up the river to Baton Rouge, to Mrs. Johnson's boarding school. After I -became settled there, I liked the changevery much, as I now had a new field to work in, new things to learn, new associations to form, new friendsto make, new desires, new aspirations, and new hopes to cherish. I soon formed an acquain- tance with most of the young ladies in the institution, and felt perfectly happy. I had not been there long, before I noticed that one of the young ladies was under greater surveillance than any of the others. I noticed, also that she had something more than common on- her mind. Why she was kept under such strict surveillance, and what it was that weighed so heavily upon her mind, were two things that I had a woman's curiosity to know. The young lady's name was Maria Frost, the daughter of a rich planter on the Red river, near Shreveport, and was, at the time I was there, spine fourteen years of age. She was a charming, lovely girl, just ripening into womanhood; kind and affectionate to all her asso- ciates in school. I felt drawn toward her by an irresistible force and I  soon won her affections and confidence when she informed me of that which I most desired to know. She had but lately been sent to the institution, not so much to learn as to keep her away from home for a certain period, in order to break up an intimacy that had sprung up and ripened into love, between the son of a  planter, a near neighbor to her father, and her; and between whom,--. e. between her father and the planter whose plantation adjoined his plantation -there was a deadly feud. Her father bad noticed this intimacy, and had tried to check it, but could not succeed, and finding all his counsels disregarded, be had brought her thus far away; and feair'ing that young Blosier, for that was the young man's name, might find the place of her retreat, and steal her aiway, he had given the presiding genius of the institution a history of those things, and instructed that a  strict watch should be kept on Maria, so that if yoi Blosier should find out her place of retreat, and attempt"   establish a correspondence, or anything of that kind, he would be foiled. But love knows no bounds, for he will travel through "antres vast, and deserts wild." in order to consummate his desires; so it was in this case, for no sooner did young BIosier learn the flight of his beloved, than he took instant measures to find where she had flown. Hf   ribed Frost's servants, who informed him of her place of rett; on learning of which, he lost no time, but instantly start5 for Baton Rouge. By".he  means of all-powerful gold, he had managed to convey a letter to her, announcing his arrival. This letter had fanned to a flame that love she cherished, in the inmost recesses of her heart, for him, the latent fire of which her-hard-hearted father had tried to smother. It was the consciousness that she was under espionage, and could not see her lover, nor answer his letter, that made her wear such a downcast look. When she had, thus unbosomed. herself to me, as we were walking arm-in-arm in the garden, I felt sorry for her, and resolved to help her to the utmost of my ability. In order to be of service to her, it was agreed that we should pretend to drop all intimacy, and let it appear to all that we were not on good terms, so that the suspicions of those who had her under espionage should not-be aroused. We were then to meet secretly as -often as an opportunity should be presented, and confer together in relation to this matter. At our second secret meeting, it was agreed that I should write a letter ytomoung? ^ rl:! Blosier, and inform him that Maria had received his lSi t but it?: - was under espionage, and could not answer him herself; bu'it at  she had let me into her secret, and I was her sworn friendd ad that I would receive all letters for her from him, and deliver ?' them safely to her, and that I would write answers to them for her, she dictating what I should write. I also informed him that Maria still loved him, and would con- tinue so to do, by the help of God, in spite of all opposition. I then directed him to envelop all his letters, and address the let- ters to me, so that if they should chance to fall into the enemy's hands, our secret would not be discovered. After writing and sealing the above, 1 despatched it by the hands of the person who had delivered young Blosier's letter, to Maria, We carried on a correspondence in this way, for two weeks, when, finally, the lovers could bear the separation no longer, and we arranged things for a meeting between them, and an elopement. It was fi nally arranged that Maria should steal out, the first dark night, and meet young Blosier, who would have a carriage in readiness to convey her to the river, where they were to take a steamboat, and go to Memphis, and get married. When this was all ar- ranged, it was necessary, in order that all our plans should not miscarry, to lull all suspicion. So, agreeably to my instructions,. Maria put on an air of cheerfulness, that she did not feel, and  s   1o0          j  Frz JM A  went to her task with a seeming pleasure, talked, laughed, and was merry, a thing unusual with her. Those who had her under espionage, soon marked the great change in her, and looked upon it as a happy omen, thinking that she had come to the conclusion to repudiate young Blosier, au become reconciled to the wishes and, desires of her father. i s was precisely what we wanted, A.,.M ^ made ass^irancdloub I  lure. As if to help them to the / i^lim mation of the esires 3' e elements seemed to be engaged, for, just at this auspificus time, just such a night as they desired to have, in order to escape, marshalled its masses of dark cloud's, which hung over Baton Routge, as a pall, suspended from the dome of heaven's high concave. The thunders rolled as the booming of a park of artillery; the lightning flashed from one end of the majestic arch to the other, and the rain came down in torrents.- We knew that young Blosier would be on the spot, we had designated, with a carriage; so I stole softly to Maria's room, and helped her dress, in her finest clothes, and then tied up a few necessary things for her, in a handkerchief, as she could not take her trunks. We then stole softly out, into the garden, and groped our way along the garden wall, to the spot that we had agreed upon, to meet young Blosier. We soon arrived, and there was young Blosier, who had scaled the high wall, with a rope ladder. As soon as Maria saw him, she rushed into his outstretched arms, and fainted. He soon brought her to, with isse-sind the help of a flask of wine, which he applied to her lips.- and of which, she managed to swallow some, which soon revived her. After kissing me many times, and bidding me good-bye, she ascended the rope ladder, to the top of the wall, where young Blosier soon followed after, thanking me, for the thousandth time, for my kindness in helping him to be, at last, united with his beloved. When he had ascended to the top of the wall, and had drawn up the ladder after him and hung it down on the other side, they both kissed their hands to me, and then descended. I stopped and listened to hear the carriage start, after which, I stole softly to my room, divested myself of my wet raiment, and retired, to dream of love and happiness. The next morning it was noticed that Maria did not appear at prayers, nor at breakfast. This- alarmed the superintendent, who despatched a messenger to her room, to see what was the reason of her absence. The messenger soon returned with the intelli- gence that she was no where to be found, and that' her room looked as though she had not occupied it the previous night, as the bed was not disturbed,- etc. This caused a great commotion, and strict search was instituted all over the buildings and grounds, but Maria was no where to be found. At last, the truth flashed upon the superintendent, that tshe. had burst her bonds and flown. As soon as the superintendent: became sensible of this fact,-we   ;tT^LA  JABS.          " rwere all assembled together in the school-room, and informed of the same, and -each one was asked as to their knowledge of Ma- ria's escape. But- no one knew, nor could form an idea about it, as they had, one and all, seen her the evening before, the cheer- fullest of the cheerful, and had not the slightest suspicion that she meditated an escape. The superintendent then gave us a lecture on the subject, warning us all to beware how we conduct- ed ourselves through life; pointed out to us the folly of a young lady's daring to choose for herself, in opposition to her parents and guardians; told us of the many whirlpools and eddies of vice, that young and beautiful girls had fallen into, in following a ro- mantic notion; in fine, she gave us a long lecture, and commented severely on the conduct of Maria Frost. But that lecture had no more impression on me, than it would have had on "Powers' statue of the Greek Slave." I considered that Maria had done perfectly right in escaping from the tyranny of her father, and the surveillance of the superintendent, and I rejoiced that I had aided her to escape, from the thraldom of both. I would have cone the same that, I did for Maria Frost, to any other young lady that was coniditioned like her. And, when, after the expi- ration of nearly three weeks, I received a letter from Maria, an nouncing her safe arrival at Memphis, their happy marriage, and the happiness she was now enjoying with her beloved, t fairly leaped with joy, to think that I had been the means of uniting two fond and loving hearts. After reading her kind and' happy letter, I sat down and wrote her a long letter, telling her all that had transpired since her escape, and what a hubbub there wiIS, when it was,at length made conscious to the superintendent that, she had flown; and gave her a synopsis of the long lecture deliv- ered to us, on the occasion, and the severe comments made by the superintendent, etc., all of which pleased her and, her husband, as I learned from the letter which she wrote me, in answer to my letter. A few weeks after this, 1 received another letter from her, from her home, which informed me that her father had become reconciled, and that they were now living with him, being the happiest of the happy, and that she had every hope that a recon- ciliation would soon take place between young Blosierls father and her father. That was the last .letter I ever received from her, and I have never heard from her since then, either; but 1 presume she is spending her days in happiness, with the beloved idol of her heart. I will now pass over a period of three yeari'-the other three years that I remained at the boarding school, after the occur- rences that I have just narrated-as nothing worthy of notice occurred in that space of time. I had now staid some little time over three years, and had finished my education. I was now in -mny fourteenth year, and was quite a woman, I had also grown     tired of the place and longed to return to my aunt, in New Orleans, whom I had not seen once in all that time, for I never left Baton Rouge, from the time I first went there to attend the boarding school, until 1 was in my fourteenth year, and had completed my studies. I wroteto my aunt, and infor'ed her of mY desire to return to her house, etc. On the receipt of my let- ter, she took passage on a steamboat, and came to Baton Rouge, to see me, settle all my bills, and take me back with her to New Orleans. She was highly delighted to see me, embraced vne many times, kissed my forehead.,said I was a lovely girl, that she was proud of me, etc. I was quite as delighted to see her as she was to see me, I ain sure, for I loved her exceedingly. The su- perintendent gave her flattering accounts of me and said I. was the most accomplished young lady in her school, all of which tended to raise me high in the estioation of my aunt. After settling up everything, my aunt concluded to spend a few days in that. delightful place, for Baton Rouge is the most lovely place in the whole South.  We then took passage on one of those splendid steamers that ply on the Mississippi, for New Orleans which we reached in due time.  On our arrival hone, my aunt decided to give a greatfete, on which occasion I should make my debut in the beau mondes. I shall never forget that occasion, as it is from that occasion that I date the commencement of my eventtful career. Nothing was spared by my aunt that would, min any way, add eclat to the occasion, and conduce to my happiness. The House was arrayed gorgeously, the windows were, hung with curtains of damask and Crinson ; sofas, lounges, ottomansrand all other furniture was nicely and tastefully arranged. Wines fruits, and pastry were supplied, in profusion, and the best musi- cians in the city were engaged, for an orchestra. Cards of invi- tation were sent to many of theelite, beatu mnonde, and beau e sprit of the city, and to some noted strangers at the St. Charles, St. Louis, and Verandah hotels. The night, came, and so did the guests. I  was arrayed in the richest and costhest fabrics and the finest Jewelry. At precisely nine of the clocks I was led into the parlor by my aunt, and was soon surrounded by the gapingn crowd, who eagerly sought an introduction to me. I  was, as Ophelia says,  "c-'he expectancy and rose of the fair state, the' glass of fashion and the mould of form; the observed of all observers." I  was edgaged to dance the first "set" with young a. C--, the son of a  celebrated statesman. He was the hand2 somest and most accomplished' man in the room and as I was led up by him to take my place in the first set, I felt as roudwas a   princess royal He, too, seemed conscious of the loveliness of his partner, and fairly beat himself, by his gallantry. He lost no time while by my side, to pour the delicious poison of flat- tery into my Willing ear, and which filled me with pleasure.   He praised my gazelle-like eyes, and queenly form, and pressed my hands, with such ardor, that my little heart began to flutter and beat with rapture. And, when the cotillion was through, he led me to my seat, ensconced himself by my side, and began to talk of love, in accents sweet and low. Soon he led me on the floor again, to waltz. Oh! what a thrill of pleasure ran through my framne, as I whirled through the giddy waltz, in his arms, and could lear, audibly, the beating of his heart. The rules of eti- quette demanded that I should not be monopolized by him, all the evening, so, he gave way for other gentlemen, to dance and waltz with me, with the best grace he could command. But the mo- i ment he saw me disengaged, he was by mny side, talking most bewitchingly. From the moment I saw him first, I was drawn irresistibly towards him, preferring him before all others. This will not appear strange, when it is remembered that I was hardly fourteen years of age, just ripening into womanhood, and, as such, having a soft, warm heart to dispose of, free to hold a thousand tender pleasures, and, unsophisticated, withal, and he being of pleasing exterior, and insinuating address, gave great force to his honied words, to which I listened without suspicion. I can not say that I fell in love with him, at that time, for I hardly knew my own feelings. I looked upon him with no small degree of pleasure, and felt highly honored by his attentions to me. I also felt no small degree of pride, when I saw that I eclipsed all the other ladies in the room. The fete was at last over, the company dispersed, all passing off as such fetes generally do, and I retired-to my room, with the proud- consciousness that I was the belle of the season. I had just made my debut in a new sphere; 1 was no longer looked upon as a child, but was recognized as a woman, and one of the loveliest of. my sex. And I felt quite certain, from C. C-- -'s advances, throughout the evening, that I had captivated one of America's noblest sons. I disrobed myself, threw myself on the bed, and tried to sleep, but sleep fled from my eyelids. I did nothing but think, think, think, the remainder of the night. . I arose at an early hour, and rang the bell for my servant to come and make my toilet, whith, being completed, I descended to the garden, and walked for an hour, till the breakfast bell rang, and then went in. My appetite was poor; I could relish nothing. My aunt noticed all this, and inquired the cause. I unbosomed myself to her, without reserve, and kept nothing from her. She heard me patiently, to the end, and then burst out in an immoderate fit of laughter, and continued laughing, until the tears gushed forth from her eyes, in torrents. Then she checked herself, and began to talk sensibly to me, telling me to repudiate such nonsense, at once; that I was, a little too romantic to think that a young man like Charles ---was going to fall in love    XI*i AFidTZ JAn -M& with me, at first sight; the idea was preposterons, and entirely out of place. "Besides," said she, "he is already paying his addresses to me, and has been doing so for the last ten months, and it is only through friendship for me, that he has extended so much gallantry to you. He saw," continued she, "that you were ver- dant and bashful, and his goodness of heart made him lead you on, and dance the first set with you, and do the agreeable, as he did, in order to inspire you with confidence, on making your cdebut into society.", 1 listened with patience to her conversation, and saw, one by one, the many castles that I had built in the air thrown down, till at last all were laid in the dust, and'I was left with an aching void in my heart. I thanked my aunt for her counsel and advice, and then retired to my room and wept, wept with sheer vexation, to think that all my cherished hopes were a mere hallucination of the brain. I then dried my tears, and descended to the garden, to walk, and cool my heated brow. I had not been there long before a servant came and informed me that a gentleman was in the parlor and wished to see me. I immediately entered the house, and went into the parlor, when, who should be there but Charles C--. He arose upon my entrance, and left my aunt, came to me and begged my pardon for having called me from the garden, adding that he had called to renew the agreeable acquaintance of the preceding evening, and then commenced talking about the fete, the guests that were there, etc. After spending an hour in this way, he took his leave from us, with a promise that he would soon call again. As he had paid quite as much attention to my aunt as he had to me, she looked at me triumphantly, and said, "You now see, Zilla, that what I have said to you is quite true."           I  Time rolled on, and almost every day Charles 0--- came to our house and spent a few hours. It soon became plain to me that he was livelier when talking to me than when talking to my aunt, which irritated her inuch, although she tried to hide it. As he became more warm and tender in his advances to me, she became cold and repulsive to me. It was plain to be seen, she was getting jealous of me. This made me feel very bad,. and I tried my best to win back her love; but all I could say or do was of no avail. But at last she could master her jealousy no longer, for the next time Charles C-- came to the houses She burst out in all her fury upon him, called him a gay deceiver, and told him that he came to see me only to poison my mind, and lead me to rain, therefore she wanted him neverto cross her threshold again, and bade him leave-the house at once. He tried to reason with her, and asked an explanation of her singular conduct toward him. She told him that she had already given an explanation, and to. be gone. at once. He seemed quite   sorrowful to depart in that sumtary E anner, I fancied, as he took his leave.:  When he had gone, my aunt turned upon me, and called me a graceless hussey, and many very hard names, which nearly broke my heart, for I felt that I had not merited such treatment from her. She then sat down and cried, stamped her little feet, tore her hair, and fairly gnashed her teeth with rage. Then turning upon me again, says she, "Is this the way you repay me for all my kindness toward you from infancy, by meanly stealing the heart of my lover Begone from my presence! If I did you justice, I would turn you into the street, and let yodf go to the dogs." I needed no second command to leave her, so l retired to my room,:threw myself on the bed, and wept myself to sleep, when I dreamed a horrid dream, which awoke me with fright. It was now dark, so I disrobed myself, and laid down again, and soon fell into a deep sleep, which lasted till morning. I then arose, rung the bell for my servant, was dressed, and then descended to the breakfast-room, where I found my aunt. She was sulky and sullen, hardly deigning to speak to me. I went and kissed her, told her not to be angry with me, that I knew not that I had committed any fatult, that I would never see nor speak to hin again. This seemed to soothe her, and she began to look Imore like my kind, good aunt. To see her begin to look and act thus cheerful again, took away half of the pang that I felt at being so summarily parted from Charles C-- . My aunt soon proposed a drive to Lake Ponchartrain, an invi- tation that I gladly accepted; so the carriage was ordered, and away we went. Soon we left the paved streets, and was driving slowly along on the road that leads to the landing of the Mobile and Pensacola steamboats. After an hour's drive we arrived at the landing, drove up to the hotel, jumped out, and took a stroll through the delightfl garden and nursery close to the landing, which enlivened and amused us much. We then returned to the hotel, and had some refreshments, after the partaking of which we returned to the city. It was now about two o'clock, P. M., and I retired to my room to dress for dinner. When passing through the hall, I met my old servant, Martha, who had a most knowing 10ook. I beckoned her to follow me up stairs, for I saw by the expression of her countenance that she had something important to communicate. She followed me up stairs, and after shutting to and fastening the door, she looked under the bed, and in the closet; to see if no one Iwas near.; then she ventured to bring forth the following letter,- and told,me not to lot my aunt see it tfor the world, as it was from Massa Charles              .   16         'sTrt,/ rrrz JAes. DEAREST, EVER DEAREST ZiLA-,I If I am transcending the bounds of propriety, in addressing you by. letter, let my great love for you plead in my behalf, for Iam proud to confess, that I deeply and madly love you. But as Shakspeare says, "The course of true love never did run smooth;" a faithful and true saying, which I now see verified. Yesterday I was the recipient of an insult most grievous to be borne, from your jealous aunt, who, it seems, is troubled with "the green- eyed monster that doth make the meat it feeds upon,"- all of which I can meekly bear for your sake. I know not why your aunt is jealous of me, for I have never given her any cause to look upon me in any other light than that of a friendly acquain- tance. But it seems from present appearances, that she has looked upon our acquaintance in a different light. However, I do assure you, upon my honor as a man, that I never loved her, nor any one else, till I saw you. Before I had the unqualified happiness of seeing you, I was a stranger to that ecstatic bliss that now holds me in thrall. I read Shakspeare, Byron, Pope, and all the poets who so beautifully describe love, that holds the world together, in hopes that I might taste its sweets; but could not. then resolved to travel, which I did, from the Mexican Gulf to the noble St. Lawrence river, and back again, with the hope that I should at last find a congenial spirit, being full of faith that I was not doomed to be forever disappointed. And it hath at length pleased Heaven to guide me to you, thou lovely and fragrant flower! Before 1 saw you, I was like unto a weary traveler who had traveled many leagues over a sandy desert, with a broiling sun beating down up- on him, and not a tree or shrub to be seen as far as the eye could reach, and just ready to lay down and die with fatigue and thirst. But when I saw you, I was like unto that same weary traveler, who, when all hope of relief had flown, at length espied an oasis in the sandy desert; with a well of pure, limpid, sparkling water, where he could slake his thirst, and lie down under the shade of a friendly tree, on the green sward, and rest him from his weari- ness. Let not, then, my promised happiness and fond desires be blasted, for I feel that our likes and dislikes are in perfect unison, and that we were made for one another. I beseech you, then, in the name of love, to grant me an interview, which can be done with secrecy and safety, as I have already bribed your old ser- vant, Martha, the bearer of this letter, who will admit me to the arbor in the garden at ten this evening. If you will meet me there at that hour, we can have a tete-a-tete in perfect security. Do, dearest Zilla, meet your own Charles, then and there, that I may unbosom that which is most within me. And now, into thy    ;A  pA FITZ ials.       17 hands I commit all my hopes, and tri the hour of ten, I shall feel like the mariner who, 'in a frail bark without a helm, is tossed wildly about in, a termpestuous sea. Hoping that your good heart will not refuse this simple request from him who lives only to love and adore;you,  I remain, affectionately yours,  C. C.  I read the letter through with a throbbing temple and a palpi- tating heart. I s charmed, aye, bewitched by every word and every line. Th: if was not deceived, after all! he did love me before allotis is Then, all the castles that I had built in the..air ethen :g4 f the fete, and which were thrown' down so '-%ummaa (b- k  unt, were now rebuilt, with greater splendor. tlad         w I'f tw : son in the world to think and believe that all my thoughts  dreams were now to be realized? I was trans- ported with l;iht. I read, and re-read the letter, kissed it, and fairly 'at. with joy. I ree oved to meet him at the time and place he requested, let come. tli.    A few minutes before ten, I stole softly down stairs, nd';ii:tob the garden, where I met old Martha, ready to ^j..a;nyi;x to the arbor, which we soon reached, and found 57 ,B - already there. As soon as I entered, he dropped' n ;i': iee, caught my hand and almost devoured it with kisses, ji iripg me the while, for my generosity in meeting him. He then; arose, led me to a seat, and ensconced himself by my side,  bidding old Martha to stand sentry at the entrance of the arbor. He then recapitulated all that he had written in his letter, and sail^lathousand tender things beside. As he looked up at the myriad of stars that glitter in the dome of heaven's high con- cave, and in whose bright leaves we can read the fate of men and empires, he appealed to them to witness the sincerity of his love for me. We stayed there three hours in sweet communion, lip to lip and heart to heart, nor dreamed that time was flying - so rapidly, till old Martha warned us that it was time to sepa- f rate, it now being past midnight. We at length separated, after my promising him that I would meet him there at ten, 'two nights hence. I entered the house, retired, and dreamed most sweetly. 1 arose at the usual hour the next morning, and after complet- ing my toilet, descended to the breakfast-room, where I joined my aunt. I felt perfectly happy, and my happiness difused the ' same spirit over my aunt. I was careful not to say or do any- thing that would arouse the suspicion of my aunt. As I never mentioned anything about Charles C--, his name, nor anything concerning him, was never mentioned by my aunt. So the two days passed swiftly away, and the night for our second meeting came, and ten o'clock found Charles C--- and I in the arbor   ;     . i, - * 18          za rrrz ,AmAS. again, in sweet communion with efch other. Charles was seem- ingly more ardent in his love this time than on the former occa- sion. He then said that we perfectly understood each other, and as our vows of love were registered in heaven, we should be united never to separate. He spoke of ap elopement, as being the most feasible plan to attain the desired end of 'our wishes, and desired me to think of it, and give him the result of my thoughts on the subject when we should meet there again, two nights hence. After which we separated, and 1 returned into the house, and retired to dream of an elopement and its concomitants. The interim of two days passed, and the hour of ten found us again in the arbor. There seemed to be an unusual brilliancy in Charles' eye, a deep heaving of his chest, from which a simoth- ered sigh "would often escape, and a softer and sweeter tone in his voice, iakingD hiln the very impersonation of tenderness. I soon caught the contagion, and leaned my head upon his bosom, when he pressed me to his heart, which imade mie Reel in an ecs- tatic state of beatitude. How well had the villain matured Iris plans, and worked upon my feelings, making me the weakest of the weak; and when I had lost all power to think or suspect, he ,consummated his hellish desires, and Hfell! And O, how great was that fill! But of that anon. The estatic dreamn was over, and I became conscious tihat my honor was in his hands. and the only- way to redeem that honor was, for hil to lead mne to the altar. And how was that to be done? He dare not enter the house of mlly aunlt, neither dare I let our intimacy be known. We kept meeting at the arbor evelry ieo nights, and lie, still protesting his ardor and iulchangeable love fur mle, and his desire and determination to lead me to the. altar. I, at last, seeing no other way open, determined to tell lmy aunt of our secret meetings, and beg her to allow Charles to claim and take me as his bride. But, whern I told him of this- my de- termination, he persuaded me not to do it; that it would ruin all; but, to keep secret a little while longer, and then we would elope and get married. I asked him, why not elope at once, and, that without delay. He said that certain things had got to transpire, before he could be able to do so, and begged mne to wait a little while longer, anld not be rash, and ruin all his hopes in life. By such deceit I was kept on for nearly four mnonths, when I saw that it was necessary to do something, as I was, in fact, becoming a mother, and my condition could not long be concealed. Charles soon saw that it was necessary that something should be done speedily, and, at last, informed me that he was now ready to ful- fill hispronise with me. So it was arranged, that, at our next meeting, I should have everything prepared to elope with him. 1 packed ,all my jewelry into a nice casket, a present from him, and a few of my best clothes into a small valise, both of which   19 Z/LLA FITZ JAMES. old Martha conveyed to the arbor, in the garden, just after night- fall, and, at the hour of ten, I went there too, when I found Charles C   there, ready to receive me. He had a carriage -near by, to which my things were carried, and we soon followed, bidding old Martha good-bye. I supposed that we were going to drive to the house of a clergyman, and be indissolubly united that very hour, but such was not his intent. Whilst driving, he informed me that he dare not publicly make me his wife, just then, as his father would disinherit him if he married against his will, but, that he was now going to take me to the house of his cousin, with whom he had made arrangements for me to stay a few weeks, till he could soften the heart of his father, and thus be allowed to takle me home as his wife. He said, also, that he had informed his cousin that we had been privately married. He told such a plausible story, that I could not but believe him, so I said nothing, but weSt cheerfully with him. When we drove up to the door of what I supposed was his cousin's house, we were met at the door by a very handsome woman, of some twenty-five summers, to whom he introduced me, as his cousin. She seemed to be a very kind and good woman, as she kissed me affectionately, shook my band cordially, and welcomed me to her house with great warmth. A very nice suit of rooms were already prepared for us, and, to which we repaired, I feeling quite happy. Charles then sat down by my side, and talked lovely and sweetly of domestic felicity, and of our future happiness, when he could take me home to his father's house. A few days after this, I noticed some half a dozen beautiful young ladies passing to and fro, in dishabille, which much sur- prised me. I also noticed that a great number of young and middle aged men came and went.  asked Charles what this all meant. 'When I put the question to him, he started, changed color, and answered me vaguely, and -in a confused manner; This aroused my suspicion that all was not right, and I deter- mined to know what it all meant. I said no more to him about it, but kept a strict watch on all in the house, when, at last, ohI horror of horrors, I became sensible of the awful truth, that I was an inmate of a fashionable brothel! The mystery was now un- veiled. I was the victim of a designing villain, who had, under the guise of love, and a promise of marriage, robbed me of all that was dear to a woman,--her chastity,-and consigned me to that loathsome cess-pool, a house of ill-fame. When I. became fully conscious of the awful state of degradation to which I, had been brought, all my love for the villain that had brought me to such a state, was turned from love to hate; hate such as only a despised and ruined woman can possess, for the auithor of her shame. I was now transported with the very quintessence of such dark hate against Charles C---, and felt as did Othello, w   20         z7TT T.A FfTZ JAMEl. "Oh I that the slave had forty thousand lives,  One is too poor, too weak for my revenge. Allmy fond love thus do I blow to heaven--'tis gone. Arise, black vengeance, from thy hollow cell, Yield up, oh I love, thy crown and hearted throne, to tyrannous hate I Swell, bosom, with thy fraught, for 'tis of aspic's tongues." I resolved to murder the villain, but how to accomplish his death, without detection, was the next' thing to be taken into con- sideration. The most effectual way to do this, and escape detec- tion, was to murder him in the street, as he was in the habit, :lately, of staying outvery late, Sometimes not coming home before two or three o'clock in the nlorning, I possessed myself of a very nice poniard, that he had laid away; I then questioned him, at different times, in a careless way, which way he went, and where he went, etc., so that 1 soon became informed of the different streets he was most apt to walk through. Shortly after question- ing him thus, he informed me, one Sunday night, that he was going to the theatre, in Charles Street, and asked me to accom- pany him. 1 made an'excuse, as I determiined to meet and murder lim on his return home. He went, and I staid in my room till about eleven o'clock, when I stole softly out the back way, and proceeded down to the corner of Charles and Poydras streets, where I laid in wait for him. I had not been there more than half an hour, before I saw a great many people coming along Charles street, from the direction of the theatre, and I knew the theatre was let out, so I stationed myself close to the building on the corner of Charles and Poydras streets, in readiness for action, as I knew that he would come that way. I had not lon to wait, as he soon came along with three of his companions. When he and his companions had got opposite to me, I stepped quickly out in front of them and cried, "Stanld!, Then, quick as thought I plunged the poniard up to the hilt in his black heart, and then ran for dear life down Poydras street to Old Levee street, then down Old Levee street to Canal street, then up Canal street to Charles street, and then went directly home, got in the back way, and retired to bed, and soon fell asleep. The next morning I awoke at the usual hour, and felt quite cheerful. I knew not whether I had been recognized by Charles C---'s companions, when I stabbed him the night before, or not, neither did I care; I had now had my revenge. Soon the morn- ing newspaper was thrown into my room, and I caught it up with eagerness, and soon found a  paragraph which stated in sub- stance, that one of the first young men in the city, by the name of Charles  ---, was stabbed to the heart with an old-fashioned poniard, by What appeared to be a crazy woman, at the corner of Charles and Poydras streets, the previous night, ,as he, with three young gentlemen, was going home from tshe theatre, and   rJ A- FITrrZ JME.         21 that the stab caused instant death. :The sudden appearance of the woman, and the shrill cry of " stand!!" that she uttered, her stabbing Charles C--   so quickly, and her sudden flight, so paralyzed all three that they could not move, nor utter a word, till she was out of sight. They then raised the cry of murder, and soon .had the police in pursuit of the murderess; but all search had, as yet, proved futile. Then followed a long- eulogy on his many virtues, and what a bereavement his loss was to society, etc. When I had read all this, I threw the paper away with disgust, as I thought of the hypocrisy of men-men that would canonize as a saint, a heartless libertine. I was now an outcast from society, a commoner, and a mur- deress-! and I looked upon society-as a sickly, bilious thing, rotten at the heart, and only held together by hypocrisy and deceit. There was Charles C--, a corpse -who, when alive, was called an ornament to society, pested, and fawned upon by candied tongues: "How noble he was in reason, how infinite in faculties; in form and moving how express and admirable; in action how like an angel; in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the world, the paragon of animals!" This was one side of his pic- ture; let us see the reverse side, which blasted his nobleness, and, in my sight, made him Satanic. He, like others of his sex, prowled about the sacred fold of virtue, like a wolf in sheeps clothing, pourin, the delicious poison of deceit- delicious at the time, but O, how bitter the dregs! - into virtue's ear, till it acted as a stupitying opiate to reason, making that hallowed sphere, a woman's heart,-- that contains empires of feeling, and the rich domain where pure and unalloyed love disports in his sunniest hours-" a cistern for foul toads to knot and gender in." I say, look upon this noble biped, and see how cunningly he lays his plans to enter this sacred and hallowed sphere, and when he has once entered and breathed upon this fragrant flower with his pes- tiferous breathj,-which blights and destroys the rich odor, and has sucked out the sap of chastity, leaves it to contaminate other as lovely flowers, and perhaps diseased it, so that the very air seems impregnated with a foul and contagious disease, that is taken by . -the unwary who touch it, bringing her and others to an untimely and miserable death. See how society takes this wretch by the hand, fete, fawn upon, and worship his God-like intellect! But what does it do with the lovely flower that he has breathed upon with his pestilential breath . What does it do with poor, frail, weak woman, in that trying hour? Does society take her by the hand, and laud her to the skies, as it did before she became the victim of the seducer? No! it drives her forth, an outcast from its pale, as Adam and Eve were driven forth from the garden of Eden. Does society, then, after committing this monstrous injustice, hold forth any r *    ;   "22        2nj% TFzLLA FeTz AIS. hope for her this side of the grave No, no! they vlrtnally tell her that one might as well dam up the waters of the Nile with bulrushes, as to restore her to innocence. Still, there is a certain portion of society that have instituted what is called the "BMoral- Refori Society," for the ostensible purpose of reforming aban- doned fem ales. Does this small society supposethbat :they are going to accomplish anv good? If such are their thoughts, they had best repudiate them at once, or else erect a new platfo rm, as the present platform is built-on too sandy a foundation, the proof of which is to be seen every day. When this philanthropic society has persuaded a lost female to abandon her miserable life, will they take her by the hand and associate her with their sons and daughters? No, no! they will not do that; they do n't want their sons and daughters contaminated by her touch. - But they will try to quarter them on their neighbors, or make them live alone in a separate sphere, that the finger of scorn mav be pointed at them continually Such treatment only makes them disgusted with society, and then they, "like the hog that was ashed, return to the mire," making their last stage worse than the first. O, why will society thus tolerate such abuse of poor, frail woman? Why will not society repudiate its old' and con- servative notions, and keep pace with science and art, that are marching on with giant strides to improvernent? O, that I had the eloquence of a Clay, a Webster, and many other God-like statesmen, and the voice of thunder, and could stand upon the apex of the loftiest mountain in America, that I might be seen and heard from Maine to California I then would I speak, as the voice of God, against this monstrous injustice to my sex. But as it is, I live and die unheard, with a most voiceless tousrht, sheathing it as a sword, and society "will still cling to its idols," unless a mighty one rises up and purges it, root and branch. But I will not further sermonize. 1 was now vitiated and depraved, and cared not what I did. As many of the beau monde were visitors at the house, I was not long in becoming acquainted with them, and soon chose one John Smith as Char]es C----'s successor. It may not be amiss to give a short sketch of John's life, prior to my acquaintance with him. I  will give it in his own Words, as he told it to me, on my becoming acquainted with him: "aI am," said he, "the only son of a wealthy planter, whose plantation is within an hour's drive of Natchez, Mississippi. My father, who doted upon me from early infancy, had me educated for the bar, and at the age of twenty, I gave every promise of being a most excellent jurist, which delighted my fond parents beyond measure. "At this time, Itook it into my head to take a trip to New Or- leans and remain there through the winter. My fathersaw no , ^,I   .   -LJTLA FITZ JAMES.        23 impropriety in that, so he furnished me with the means, and 1 started without delay. While going down th'e river, from Natch- ez, I was induced to play eucler and poker, at first, only for a pastime, but soon I got to playing in dead earnest, being led on by thosei gamblers thatf arl to be found on board of all the steam- boats on the Mississippi and Ohio rivers. Becoming excited, as the games progressed, I took to drilrking liquor quite fieely, which soon int6xicated me, and I played recklessly, until my last dime was gone, and I arrived in Nkew Orleans without a picayune. By this timne, I was quite sober and sensible, and felt in very low spirits. I put up at the St. Charles, and immediately wrote to my father, and gave him "a plain, unvarnished tale," of all that had transpired- with me, froln mvy first setting out from home, to the very moment I wrote hm. I expressed contrition for my folly, and swore to do better if he would send me a thousand dollars. My letter moved the old gentleman, and he sent me the thousand dollars that I requested, forthwith. When I' had re- ceived the money, the thought flashed* through my brain, that I could now play with this thousand and win back the thousand I had lost. So I went to playing again, but met with no better success than at first; for, soon the excitement of the game made me drink deep of the intoxicating bowl, which crazed me, and left me to the tender mercies of the gamblers with whom I was playing. At the end of the last game, when I saw the last dollar of the thousand gonle, 1 arose from the table, drew a pistol, and was about to blow my brains out, when the gamblers at the table sprang upon me, wrested the pistol fromi me, and then confined me for a few hours in a dark room. When I had become sobered and sane, they took me out, gave me some drink, and then set me down among them, and made overtures to me to join them . They told, me it would be impossible for me to get any more money from my fatther, as le .would be informed of my second mishap before I could write to him, and that he would discard me forever; and, that if I would join themn, they would initiate me into the hidden mysteries of gaming, and supply me; with abundant means, etc. 1 could see no other alternative, so I at once gave my con- sent to be initiated, which ceremony was immediately gone through with, and I became one of the firaternity.  1 entered, at once, into the spirit of the thing, and soon became very expert at cards, dice, etc. Gaming led me to comrlint many other crimes, of which I shall not speak at this time," 'said he, and our conversation dropped, for that time. Thus, it will be seen by the reader, that two congenial spirits were now together. Both of us depraved, and lost to all that was virtuous and good, and ready to commit the darkest crimes. I told him how had murdered Charles C---- which pleased him not a little. I staid at the same place with him, till about a i1   24         IzT LA ErTZ JAMES. month after my child was born. Then I went up the river, to St. Louis, with him, as he had a speculation in view, at that city. When we arrived there, we took board at a private boardillg house. He there left me, for a short time, and went into southern Illinois, to get a large quantity of counterfeit notes from, a gang of counterfeiters that had their rendezvous there. While Smith was gone into Illinois, I amused myself by read- ing, walking, etc. One day, as I was walking along in front ot' the Planter's hote., I noticed that I attracted the notice of a very fine-looking man of about forty years of age, as near as I could judge, who followed mle, at a distance, till I arrived at the house where I boarded. I did not think much about it, at that time, but, when I noticed, that every day, as I walked past the hotel, the same individual watched and followed me, I thought there must be something in it. So the next time that I passed that way, I determined to let him follow me, as he had done before, and, when near home, to turn upon him and inquire his meaning. So, agreeably to the resolution I had come to, the next clay I took my every day walk, and was noticed and followed )by hiim, as on previous occasions. When I had arrived nearly honle, I turned suddenly, and walked towards him, and, when about to pass lilll, I spoke, and asked him why he watched me so nlarrowly, and dogged my steps. My speakinig so suddenly, caused him to stammer, and blush with confusion, at first, but, soon becoming assured, he told me that my beauty had caltivated annd charmed him, and he longed to learn my name, as he supposed he had already learned my place of residence. Something whispered to me to tell him my name was Smith, and to ask him to call u1lj,, me, in the evening. which I did. After giving me William Cobb, friom Boston, as his name, we separated, and I returned holsne. 'The. same evening, at eight o'clock,Mr. Cobb called upon lle, and I received him in a very cold and formal manner. lie seemed to be well acquainted with such receptions, as lie s;lt down, and soon made- himself quite familiar with me; t,1dl Jlie that he had fallen-desperately in love with me, and, that i' 1 would leave Smith he would spend two thousand dollars a year upon, me, take me to all the fashionable watering places in the states, and then take me to Europe, etc. He said that he was worth two million dollars, and that I should be mistress of jis Veart and his purse too, if I would only accept of both. This was a very tempting offer, and 1 finally concluded to accept of it. However, I told him that I would let him know at the expiration of three days, what I would do. He then gave me a purse con- taini-ng five hundred dollars in gold, kissed me, bade me to think kindly of him, and then he took his leave. The five hundred completely won me over to him, and I resolved, if I could get rid of my child, I would go with him. But how to get rid of the    26     -    ZUILA FITZ JAMES. child was a serious question. It was a beautiful male child, the very image of Charles 0--, its father. I resolved to murder it. When I had come to this resolution, I gave out to the people that I boarded witl, that I was going on a journey with my- uncle, and that I was going to put my child out to nurse, so thfat' tere should be no suspicions aroused. The same evening of the day in which I had given out my intentions of putting the chld out to nurse, I took and wrapped the child up nicely, left the house, and wended my way to the river. When I had arrived there, I took the child up, looked at him, and said to him, You are a child of shame, and it is better that you die now, than live to be a man, and become such a villain a's your father. You are too young to speak yet, therefore you have never deceived any person, nor took the name of God in vain. It is in justice and mIercy to( you that I, your unnatural mother, put an end to your existence. After speaking thus to my child, I took the poniard with which I stabbed his faither, and plunged it several times into his little bosom, from which the warln blood flowed copiously. He writhled, struggled, and gave a few sobs, and expired. I then tied a clock weight, which I had brought with me for the purpose, to his neck, and tossed him into the river. ' I then stooped down to the water and washed all the blood off' my hands, and off finom the poniard, which I stuck into its scabbardl, and replaced it in Ilny boso1m. Then I retraced my steps, and loitered on thie way till nearly ten o'clock, when I arrived home. After I had got in and seated, I told the folks that I had found an excellent nurse, who had taken my child, which it pleased theim to llear. It will probably be thought by nmany, that I would feel a re- morse of conscience for the terrible dcleed that I llad just colm- mitted, and that life must forever after be a burden to Ine. Let no one suppose such a thing of me for a moment. 1 was on the contrary elated with joy, to think that both the father and the son were dead and out of my sight. Both the sower and the fruit were distasteful to ine, and I murdered them. *At the expiration of the three days, Mr. Cobb came to see me again, and desired to know the result of mly meditations. I told hin that if hie would take me and leave the city at once, 1 would go with hm. This filled hin with a transport of joy, and he caught me in his arms and buried me with kisses. W e'then sat down and talked the matter over rationally for a couple of hours, at the expiration of which tinme, it was agreed that we should start for Louisville, Kentucky, the next day. After he took his leave, I packed my trunks, and then retired to rest. I awolke at an early hour the next morning, breakfasted, and paid my bill, and told the folks that I was going to start that morning for Nauvoo, Illinois; and I also desired them to tell my   ZILLA FITZ JAM S;          7 husband, Mr. Smith, that I had-gone there to spend a few weeks with my relatives, in company with my uncle, and if he got tired waiting for me, to come up to Nauvoo and see me. I had hardly finished telling the folks this, before a carriage with Mr. Cobb inside drove up to the door. I was soon helped ill, my trunks packed on behind, and away we went to the boat that was just ready to start. As soon as we were on board, she started, and 'soon St. Louis was left far astern. I was right glad we were off, for I was not without my fears that Smith would return and stop me in my flight. Mr. Cobb was very attentive to me at first, but le left me after all was nicely arranged, and joined a party that were play- ing poker in the social hall, near the bar, where I could hear him laugh and bet money, as the play progressed in interest. This surprised me, as I had supposed that he was free firom that vice of vices - gaming. But it seemed to be my lot to be the paramour of such despicable men, for ere we had arrived at Louis- ville, I learned that my- gentleman, Mr. Cobb, was a professional tgambler, thief, assassin, highway robber, utterer of counterfeit noney, and a cool-blooded murderer, as hewas pleased to inform nme confidentially. Hie also informed me that he was captain of a gang of counterfeiters, highway robbers, etc., that bad their headquarters in a cave near Silver Creek, Stephenson county, Illinois, where he intended taking me, after he had arranged cer- tain things in Louisville. At first, on hearing-this from his own lips, I determined to 'abandon such a villain, as soon as we left the boat; but on reflection, I concluded to make the. best of a b)ad bargain, and see what kind of a place he would lead me to. So I agreed to everything he said or did, all of which made lme dearer to him.        '      ' In due time we arrived at Louisville, where we remained a short season, and then returned down the Ohio to the Mississippi, and then up the Mississippi to St. Louis, from whickh place we took passage on a steamboat for Galena, Illinois, from which place we took a stage for Silver Creek, Stephenson county, where we arrived in good time. Here we stayed over night, and at an early hour the next morning, Cobb left me to go and reconnoiter around the cave, which was some three miles from that place. Just as the sun was sinking behind the western hills, lie returned in company with a man dressed like a farmer, who drove a very high spirited horse. He then paid our bill, and told the land- lord that we were going on to Winnebago that night,'as he had heard bad news from some of his relatives in. that town. We then started, and drove eastward, toward Winnebago, about three miles, then turned south, and drove along through a lonely path for about a mile and a half' or two miles, then turned toward the west and drove about half a mile, when we drew up to a clump     ZILLA FITZ JAME.         29 of trees, where we all alighted, and walked some sixty rods, and then came to a halt. Cobb then repeated the following Latin text aloud, ' Nemo me im pune lacesset "-no one shall provoke  rme with impunity. Soon there was a rustling of the leaves directly in front of us, and a deep bass voice, spoke the following, which I could distinctly hear, though I could see nothing, "Quo j2rre--by what right? when Cobb spoke again in a loud voice, "Pro re natac"-for a special business. He had no sooner spoken the second time, than the earth seemed to rise before us, and soon a large cavity, with steps leading down into the chasm, was visible, with a fierce, wolf-like man standing thereon, who, as soon as he saw Cobb, said, "Vade mecum "--go with me, and we all descended into the cave, which was brilliantly lighted with torches made of candlewick saturated with turpentine. On either side of me were some dozen or fifteen men, dressed like Odd Fellows, below the head, and on their heads were red and white turbans, with a crescent in the front, and as we neared the centre, they all arose and shouted three times," F iv e leroi "- live the king. Cobb then said, "Brethren, this woman is- my wife, and she wishes to join our order, will you accept of her if she takes the oath, and conforms strictly to our rules and regulations?"They all, with one voice, cried, Your will is our pleasure. Cobb then turned to me, and asked me if I was willing to take the oath. I  told him, most certainly I was willing, or I should not have de- sired to do so before coining there. I was then led into another apartment of the cave, where a stand was erected some two feet high, on which was placed a sort of desk, and some dozen chairs; on the top of the desk were arranged seven skulls, whose sight- less sockets and bare teeth gleamed in the ghastly light that was thrown out by a torch on either side, of the desk, making the effect awful, for a moment. Soon Cobb stepped forth from behind the desk, dressed similar to the others, only the crescent in his turban was pure silver, and he held in his right hand a bloody dagger, and in his left a large scroll, with many names written thereon. Then the wolf-like-looking individual that had led us in the cave, stepped forth and bade me kneel, which I did, and, upon looking up, I saw that the chairs on either side of the desk were now occupied by those who had welcomed us. When I had kneeled, they all commenced to chant something that was very solemn. When they had ceased chanting, Cobb spoke in a deep, gtitteral tone, and said, "Zilla, put your hand upon the blade of this dagger, and swear by all things earthly and divine, that you will never, under any circumstances, divulge what you have seen here this day, that you will always bei obedient, and will obey all and every thing that is required of you, by those who have the government of this society. Do you freely swear to all that I   80   'TrA FITZ JAMES. have said?"I answered firmly and distinctly, Yes!"Arise, then, thou adopted daughter of the Bandit's Cave, and be glad," said Cobb. I then rose up from my humble position, and kissed the blood-stained dagger. We then adjourned to another apart- ment, where refreshments were provided for us, of which I partook ravenously, as I had eaten nothing for many hours. Here fol- lowed a drunken debauch that lasted for two days, and then all traces of the same were cleared away, and we commenced busi- ness. It fell to my portion to sign the cashier and president's names, etc., to the counterfeit notes, as I could write an excellent hand. Some were engaged in printing the notes that I was filling up, whilst others were engraving, coining bogus mloney, etc. I staid in the cave two months, when Cobb thought it advisable for him and I to take a journey, and utter what counterfeits we could. So, after allotting each of the gang a certain amount of work to do, in a given time, each to his own particular sphere; some to rob, some to murder, some to steal horses, etc., all to be back to the cave at a certain period, we took our departure from the cave, and went south-east, to Chcago, where we passed a large quantity of counterfeit money. From Chicago, we went to Detroit, Michigan. There Cobb passed some counterfeit money on a traveler, who was going to arrest him. As soon as he had learned that the traveler was conscious of the cheat, and was going to arrest him, he went to the traveler, smoothed it over, and persuaded him to take a walk with him, the same evening, and, when he had got, him down to the bank of the river, in a lonely place, he murdered him, and threw him into the Detroit river, after robbing him. He then came and told me what he had done, and said it was necessary that we should leave Detroit immedi- ately. Tlhe next morning we left Detroit, by steamboat, for San- dusky City, at which last mentioned place we staid a few days, and then went to Cincinnati. There Cobb, fell in with some of the gang, and they went down to Louisville together, to spend a few days, leaving me in Cincinnati, by my request. When he had been gone two days, I began to think that I had had enough of him, so I concluded to leave him. As soon as I had come to this resolution, I packed my trunks, called a carriage, and went on board of a boat that was just leaving for New Or- leans, which place I arrived at in seven days from Cincinnati. 1 went back to my old place there, where i used to live with Charles C ---. I had not been there but about ten days, when I took a fancy to visit a masquerade ball that was soon to come off, with great eclat. 1 went, and there I first saw Green H. Long. He being a great observer of character, knew that I was a charming female, although I was masked, and, he having any quantity of impudence, began to flirt with me, which aroused the jealousy of a gambler who had been to see me, and had learned the costume   fT tA FTIZ JMs .         1 that I intended to appear at the masquerade ball in. This gam- bler, seeing us thus coquetting and flirting, came up, to Long and bade him desist, and then drew a knife, and made a demonstra- ticl towards Long, which, on Long's perceiving, he drew a knife, and stabbed the gambler' and then sprang out of the window. Tile gambler was costumed as a wolf, and Long as a lion. A man by the nane of Birchead, who was a friend and pal of Long's, stood by and saw the fight, and when I had said that I was glad that the gambler was killed, and could love the mlan that klled him, Birchead took me aside and told ile who the man that did the deed was, which, upon learning, I requested him to bring Long, to see me. We fell in love with each other, at first sight, and I at once comnenced to travel with him, and share an equal part with him"in all his good anidevil deeds, ior years, up to the time lie deserted me, and left me in the city of Mexico. Since that timne, there has been a great change wrought in me. , I have seen the error of nmy ways; have become, converted to a better life; have changed my name, and become a novice in the nun- nery, and, as soon as my novitiate expires, I shall take the black veil, and forever seclude myself from the world, and do penance the rest of my days, for the many dark and black crimes that I have committed. ZILLA FITZ JAMES.      
             
         
       
   
