
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, Julie P., (d. 1883). Chris and Otho .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7818
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Chris and Otho 
            
               CHRIS AND OTHO:
aYtUn  iber a  geAY   T
A SEQUEL TO
"WIDOW    GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER."
"And because the Preacher was wise he still taught the People knowledge:"
Caleton, P    ise     M    sd
* O~N  ,IW   O     O


I;7

*       Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by
GEORGE W. CARLETON,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
i ~

Stereotyped at
THE WoMaN'a PAINTING HoUsE,
Cor. -Avenue' A and 8th Street,
New ; ork.

I

*

WHOLE

WORLD-THE FATHER OF THE

FOUR YOUNG MAIDENS.

DEDICATION.
TO THE BEST AND DEAREST 'FELLOW IN THE


Ft _
37
}
4 r

DEAR R     Rs, - I am very fond of you; I hope we
shall not part forever., It was too stupid of Chandos,
that prolonged stay in Hindostan, and there is a dear
girl whom you and I know who hasn't got any hus-
band, - many dear girls in fact, but this one ougAt to
be married. We are anticipating gay doings at Craig-.
enfels. Uncle Alec is famous as host, and he is mak-
ing gorgeous preparations for a grand Christmas party;
and the dear old fellow has given me carte balance to
bid whom I like tohisarmecidian feast; therefore, dear

t

PREFACE.

0

4
ptS                                           f
f   4i    '


PREFA CE.

readers, please invite your friends, and the friends of
your friends' friends. Let us all be there with holiday
faces, and souls attuned to enjoyment.
JULIE P. SMITH.

i

I

s      -                       -
i
3
f                                                          _
Tit.
f;

AND OTHO.

CHAPTER I.
THE. WINGED HORSE.
OARING    RIVER I.Ye"d.eed,. itis thefaili r,
mad music of our dear old friend, though something
muffled, snow-clad, ce-boundg, the ceaseegue,
ever-ending, ever-beginning; and the deep organ-tone ; ig
resonndeth away.
"Men may come, andm  na g
But Iflow on forever,s
sayeth he.
Up at Petrifying Spring the wintrygtems ar  lentiute
diamond icicles hang like tin: aladites,glitteing ni
tree-branch. The s lvr'ingered icegodshash   hiMworkers
otit while men siept, and. : each little stemYhd  af.isen-
crusted in speling sheentrThe tall cedat&amp; dra     ei" e  h
their rainbowtinted kantles,,aid every bieathnfthe$
Etiroclydon makes tinkling melodyarnthe pideii
$aid Pauline Walsinghaing"
"Our orchardislike Aluddi niifen"etnatlen alh
bear rubie  andem raidga  'eciolings
epiuckedthem, ndhiM      heiaa  h ihis bi;
also{shx=l",' gt.her 'smedm"aP4ied the  ve -iti  ue
'Ahlrti vntdi    that leid1 aim.
coldgbut Ii    ete   give me pesANr40s

CHRIS

"


THE WINGED HORSE.

trees, and when the rubies and diamonds drop upon the smooth
crust, I hear the fairies laughing at me, and ringing their little
silver bells. Hark, mamma ! they are at it now. Listen how
they tinkle, tinkle ! Ah ! my mamma, you are so charming
when you sport with me,-- when you bend your head and
hearken to hear something, it is as if an angel were whispering
secrets to you.. The Lady Delight was not half so pretty as you,
when she put on the white satin robe she got out of her silken
purse, and Prince Alznanzor called her ' peerless water-lily.'
Oh, yes, mamma! I know why you are so sweet. It is be.
cause you love me with your nice eyes. You look, mother, at
me. It is good to be your child. I wish Gracie was it too,
mamma. .Why didn't you have Gracie and me babies together?
There was plenty of room in my cradle."
A boyish voice, rough and hearty, and a stamping of heavily-
shod feet outside the door, changed Pauline, in the twinkling
of an-eye, from the dreamy, smiling child lying on her mother's
lap, playing with her golden hair, into an active, wide-awake
young animal,"all frisk and motion.
" That's Dick ! He and Gracie and -I are going coasting.
Ah, my muffler, where has it got to ?f" She sprang briskly
about,, tossing on her hat, battling with her wraps. '" Dick's
got him a new pig-sticker, and we are going to make a double-
ripper out of it and my PegassusI; but I shall have him by
himself some, because Gracie likes him best. She's afraid of
double-rippers. You never saw such a scary girl as Gracie is.
She'll get white if.a cow looks at her, and she can't bear the
dark. Now .my mittens, mamma. Thanks ! Dick calls my
sled Peggy-;,and hes sticks to it that he isn't spelt with two s's ;
but I know better than he, because Peter had' it painted onto
him so, and I guess my big 'brother is a good spelled. Who'
was egassus, gmamma?"

"A. winged horse, darling. There is a pretty tale about
him in the Wonder Book. When you are weary with your
frolic, you may come back to me, and we will read it to-
gether."
"IOh, yes, mamma ! nice, pretty mamma ! but - I suppose
those Pegassuses don't grow, except in fairy books. Chris had
one in her Lady Delight story. My donkeys do me pretty
good. Daisy will trot with me and Gracie both.-' Dick tried
to stick on too, but he kept. sliding off at the tail. I wish
Daisy had been fixed a little bit -longer, mamma, so that we
could all three ride him. You see, Dandy hee-haws so dread-
fully, and groans and sticks out his fore-feet, and stands ;there
stock-still, just whenever he feels like, it; not an inch will he
budge unless he has got a mind to. Last summer, he stopped
right in the middle of the road, and he stayed, there so long
that Gracie went to sleep ; and a man came, along in a wagon
and told us to get: out of the way. And I told him.'how could
I get out if Dandy wouldn't go. And he drove past and left
us in the rain, and he laughed at us -"
"Are you coming, with that Peggy of yours, Pauline?" asked
Dick, sticking his rougish face into a crack of the door.
"4There, mamma;! didn't I tell you so ! " exclaimed Pauline,
in an exasperated voice. "Now tell him that he shan't callhim
 .Peggy, and that there were winged horses."
" Pho ! I shan't believe that story, Aunt Alice, because, you
see,;it couldn't be,; there, isn't any place for 'em to grow, and
they couldn't manage two wings and four legs. They wouldn't
know whether to run or fly."
"Yet, unbelieving Dickon, there was a winged horse in my-.
thology, who did wondrous feats.
"Wondrous feets I Now, Aunt Alice," said Dick, shaking
his head, " where is Mythology? There isn't any segch, pe

11

t'    i, Lj       5y
'      'sir    ~I t
.   ,  If  d+   1
 ,  t      i  y
'  '  '     +''  {  if 1Nt
li,

:

10

TILE WINGED HORSE.

1{ ,( ti  5


!
!
,
4
S4
.;
r
'
}#
i
rs!
+
, r
fRt
;j
~3
'
, !4
:  {
t F
4E
S', ,

THE WINGED HORSE.

down in ny geography. I never saw it, anyhow; and I've
been clear through Peter Parley and Morse's.'?
"You come home with Pauline to dinner, and I'll tell you
all about it, dear," said the mother, with her gentle voice, full
of smiles.-
Yes, Dick ; and we'll bring Gracie too," added Pauline, who
rarely left her favorite out of her pleasures. "And you'll cook
us some pop-corn balls, wont you, mamma?"
"And nut-stick and taffas," answered Mrs. Bradshaw, mak-
ing funny round eyes. She was pleased to please her baby-
daughter, who, with all her elfin mischief, was so true in her
friendships and ardent in her loves. And after the children
were gone, she drew her gray shawl lose about her frail figure ;
and while her fingers were busy with her embroidery (she was
working a set of tidies for Zoe), she fell to wondering whether
Pauline and Dick would always be- such fast friends ; and,
womanlike, had a vision-of a home with Pauline for mistress
and Dick Walsinghanfor master. It was quite natural that
her mind should be busy among weddings, with one so close
at hand in. her own family, and she. said, with a sigh, to her
husband; coming briskly in from his market drive,
Peter, I hope I shall live to see Pauline a young lady --
and married."
"Our Pauline married ! Why, Dainty Pet, how old is the
litt e maid?"
It does seem a long while in the future, I know ; and that's
why-I was thinking maybe I mightn't live to see it."
Mr. Bradshaw came and patted the drooping head, every one
of whose golden curls were priceless treasures to him, with a
tender touch.
"My dear Alice, you know that song that Sabrina sings,
'We'll sleep together at the foot.'  He stood before the fire

THE WINGED HQRSE,

13

looking down at his wife, with his hands beneath his parted
coat-tails. And he felt minded to essay the melody, and began,
"W-e-ll-ll s-l-e-e-p to-g-e-t-h-e-rr-r," but convincing himself that
he had not secured the tune so thoroughly as to give it voice,
he left off rumbling among his bass gutturals ; and, wetting his
lips, he drew in a deep breath and took to whistling. And he
succeeded so thoroughly to his satisfaction, that he went through
the whole air, including Sabrina's ornamental interlude, topped
off with a mellow trill of his own.
"There, Dainty Pet ! that's the way we'll do it; but we'll
live to see our great-grandchildren first, please God."
She looked at him and smiled. There had been a secret be-
tween them once; but after they went together to seeppoor
Fred Goldsmith in hiscoffin, she mustered up her strength and
opened her heart, and he loved her none the less. Only truth
and sweet wifely devotion possessed her soul after that; and
so light had he made life's burdens for her, so richly.surrounded
her with tenderness, that her early beauty was still untouched
by wrinkles, and not a' silver thread had got -leave to- mingle.
with her golden hair.
"I'd just as soon my girls shouldn't get married, Alice. Il
give them money enough ; they shall be independent; not need
to run after the men, nor make eyes at them, nor fish for hus-
bands anyhow. Let- me see ! Sabrina is sixteen; well, when
she's eighteen, I'll settle a nice income upon her, and she may
follow out.her tastes. She's-a good sr  t girl; she likes farming;
she'd run a place now better than half the men.. If the women
ever vote, she'd drive to the polls in her pony-phaeton, and use
her elective franchise for the best candidate ; anc:Mhe'dlook
so modest, and so womanly strong and secure, thatthi  roughs
would take off their hats and, keep in their oaths till she was
out of sight. Yes, Sabrina's got excellent sense."

12

Jl I
I i,"V ic: ,t

I

ii

x
- ;
. _   .:

,."  i   . ,'
;r!l j    ,
4,         ,
1''     }
t. it 1 i' '  I
+  i., ,
i!t I f
.,, yil. ,±I
.'{  i,


HOW ZOE SNUBBED PETER.

tBut  I'd rather they'dget good husbands, Peter. It's the
truest life and the happiest."
"Thank you, Alice. My life has not been a failure, if you
can tell me that after a twenty.two years trial of me.
CHAPTER II.-
HOW ZOE SNUBBED PETER.
E feel minded to pay a visit to the Walsinghams.
Rather soon, though, after Zoe's return from Rosen-
blooim; for this is Christmas day, and she is hardly
settled and rested from her tiresome journey.  But I think
she looks as fill of merry mischief as ever, and as bright and
piquant. Let us see, though, does she.
She is sittig i Sabrina Bradshaw's lap, with one arm around
her neck, and their -heads so close together that the purple-
black tresses mingle -with the heavy masses of sun-touched
redWhich Sam Slaughton called "auburn;" and he meant it,
and wjs ready to prove the truth of his assertion upon the body
of any doubter.
Mrs. Walsingham has lain down to rest, after the fatigues of
the Christmas-dinner.  The Bradshaws, inclusive, had been
there; and little Dick and'Gracie; and Aunt Elinor was over
from Merry Bank; and there had been ox-tail soup, pickerel
out of the lake, prairie chickens, venison, and Plum-pudding;
besides the numberless American pies, which are so good and
so indispensable on our sumptuous tables; And there had also
been a good deal of talk between the Peters and Aunt'Elinor,
about Egyptian wheat; and Aunt Elindr produced her Genesee
Farmer, and Peter brought out his RuralAew Yorkerand'they

1A4

couldn't agree; and Peter the younger promulged new facts on
the raising of calves with hay-tea, instead of milk, and pro-
duced a leathern contrivance; with a rubber ball attached, which
included the pleasure of "bunting" in the imbibing process,
making it as natural as possible, - a perfect Alma Mater, in fact.
Mrs. Walgingham was never very robust ; and widowed so
early, that her married life was but a taste - a sip of happiness.
Dr. Jenkins tries every year to coax her off to Cuba or Paler-
mo, or some other land of soft breezes, for our rough winter
weather tries her sorely ; but she draws her crimson wrap
closer, and shakes her head. She had one experience of ex-
patriation when Zoe was a wee girleen, and she neyer coiu4
get up courage after, to leave the dear home to which she came
a timid bride, and where her woman-power carried her bravely
through the test-time when the strength of the strong man
failed, and his closing eyes grew dim. His head was on her
gentle breast, and his hands clasped hers, when the. Death.
Angel knocked at the door of his heart. She s-oftly pressed the
pale lids upon the soul-mirrors, and shut out the light which
had used to gladden her ; and she pondered his good words in
the lonely night-watches. She was not a spiritualist ; but she
felt her husband's presence around her'; the house was full of
memories of him; she is very happy too,  a sunny-tternipered,
innocent cheerful little creature, all the tendrils of whose heart
are turned about and about her young gypsy of'a .daughter:
she is gay in her gayety ; she rejoices in her joy.
Miss Elinor has had her bays harnessed and :drivel, up to
Craigenfels. Peter  Sre and his Alice have takenthe children
home with them, and the two/girls we love ,have_- the drawing-
room all to themselves, "curtained, closed, and warm." Just
the time and place for confidences : so they-seened to think;
or at least Zoe did. Sabrina rarely made canfdences  she

t  I

Ik
i;
,
+I ,
,f .
'i '.
' j
-,;
,'  ,
,'
ii
1
f
1
,
i t
1.
' '   .
1';  _w

0 Ii
lam
lop,
3,  t  ;, 1  T'   j  i  1l
lip
Al
SS
owl

HOW ZOE SNUBBED PETER.

9    15

r


ai

16

*   HOW ZOE SNUBBED PETER.

thought her thoughts, and lived her independent life; giving
much, receiving little.
"Did you know that Peter went down to Ball and'Black's
before he came up to Rosenbloom?"
"No, indeed ; why didn't he go by way of Bombay for a
short-cut ; what took.him meandering off there, pray?"
"Well, that .-I suppose." Zoe turned away her head with
petulant grace, and thrust out her little hand. "At any rate,
he brought it away with him; how'do you like it? I think it
is just lovely."
"Beautiful, Zoe, dear, beautiful! I always did like opals; but
opals and diamonds ! absolutely my admiration;- and they suit
you, for you do opalesce with every passing moment. You
are red, fiery -green, jealous -yellow, suspicious -- orange,
whimsical -violet, associative -= and true blue, through all."
"Thank your wisdom. Why not go on with your analysis,
and resolve "me into my elements?"
" «Ah, Zoe darling , no haste for that";'he who sits the pale
horse will accomplish his dread mission all too soon.
"'So shalt thou in earth,
Dwell full cold,
Dimly and dark."'
Zoe fidgeted impatiently, as well she might, and withdrew her
hand.
"You make me shiver and spoil all the pleasure of my ring.
How can you conjure up such a ghastly image to be coupled
with it?  I'll tell Peter ! Positively, you're like the skeleton
at the feast."
"Nay, nay, my pretty Zoe ! Precious soul, never show thy
red opalescence, glowing hot and fiery, but bring forth that
ry hidden hand " and let me see the treasure."  :
Zoe answered Sabrina's kiss with a smile through her crim-

OLW Z OE *SNUBBED PETER.

17

'i  j.?!
' d,;
'ft  i

son pout, and produced, from beneath her apron, a morocco
case. She snapped it open, and showed a set of pink coral,
cut in roses and buds, lying displayed upon their black velvet,
- necklace, ear-rings, brooch, bracelets, and all.
"Ah! how many thousand years of toil and death it has
taken to perfect those deep-sea beauties !" exclaimed Sabrina.
" Sabrina Bradshaw ! what possesses you !" retorted Zoe,
shaking her friend's handsome shoulders. "You are worse
than Chris Goldsmith. Come! drop your heroic doldrums and
your tiresome learning, and be sensible. I begin to think you
don't like my presents."
Sabrina laughed,
"'The primrose on the river's brim.
A yellow primrose was to him;
And nothing more.'
Don't be vexed, Zoe : the fact is, I've been reading "Cos-
mos," and I am still rather muddled with it. The everlasting
hills feel shaky, and the cooled crust, an uncertain tenure.
I do enjoy your presents and your presence," -squeezing her ;
"and, of a truth, I'd no idea our Peter was so skilled in jewels.
Let us try' them on at once."
'Oh, dear, no ! " Zoe shook positively her little head. " Not
with this dress ; high-neck," - touching her smooth throat with
her pointed brown finger. " I wanted horribly to wear them
at the Rosenbloom party; but you know that was impossible.
Rose corals with garnet crepe ! Barbarous ! But come -up to
my room, and I'll just slip on an evening dress; I couldnever
bear to spoil the, first effect : nothing but black lace or white
muslin with these. Tulle over creamy silk might do ; did you
ever see any thing lovelier than this coronet?"
" Never ! superb enough for a countess ; though I don't know
why a countess should have any thing more superb than you or I."

si  i "Ii
±  I  ar
KI li
' fi,( 4


18

HOW ZOE SNUBBED PETER.

Sabrina drew herself up ; and if she had glanced across at the
mirror, she might have seen a queenly figure there. " Come,"
she added, rising hastily, as if the affair was of the last impor-
tance, and not a moment to be lost, "let us go at once."
"uStay just one instant first, Sabrina."  Zoe stood up, and
laid her hand on her friend's arm. "Do you know what that
ridiculous Peter wants me to do ?"
"Why, yes, I suppose I do."
What,, then ?  he declared that he had not spoken to you."
" Why, he wants you to get married to him, and be my little
sister ; at least I infer as much from - evidence," replied
Sabrina, in some surprise. "You may perhaps remember snub-
bing me viciously upon one occasion, about 'red-cheeked
men,' and I made up my mind, then and there,-'to keep quiet,
R    till you chose to speak first; that was when the yellow opal-
jiI~ esced in you; now you glimmer and glow, all blue and violet.
He's a noble good fellow, Zoe, as his sister can testify; quite
worthy even of you."
"Oh, yes ! But you've no idea how absurd he can be. For
instance: he is begging me to get married right off, now, and
not go back to school any more."
"Fie upon my silly brother! I would not have believed it
of him. I must set his folly straightly before him - read him
a lecture."
"Oh, no ! you'needn't, because I am going to do it - get
married, I mean."
"Oh, you are "answered Sabrina, looking rather blank.
"Yes, I am. And you will have to be bridesmaid; so there's an
end of your school-days for the present, if not forever, you see."
"I don't see that at all. You may marry our Peter if you
like, but I shall finish my education at Rosenbloom."
"That's how I talked at Peter ; but he said I had education

I

HOW ZOE SNUBBED PETER.                 19
enough to keep hiin in a flurry ; and though he promised, of his
own accord, not to hurry me, and wait ever so long if I would
only agree to take him at some far-off period in the dim future,
here he is, you see, in the greatest pucker imaginable ; no time
will do but now !r"
"Put him off ; tell him you wont," suggested Sabrina.
"Well, I don't know as I ought to do that. Mamma-is so
delicate ; perhaps it is best for me to remain near her; and,
at any rate, ske kissed me and cried ever so much, and thanked
me when I told her. I shall have to be married sometime, you
know ; so a little sooner or later doesn't matter much. But
Peter has got to do one thing."
"Well, dear, and that is-?"
"lie has got to come here and live in our house."
"I don't believe Peter Bradshaw will consent to that."
" Oh, yes, he will. He says thi farm is in a dreadful state
and the place wants a master. 'He intends to lease it of
manna, and put it intoshape. And he conversed ever so long
about drainage, and subsoil plough, and patent hand-rollers, and
Alderneys, and Dorkings, and Southdowns, and black Ham-
burghs.
"A pretty mix you make of our Peter's farming talk !" ex-
claimed Sabrina, laughing. "What a stupid, silly fellow, to pour
such heathen Greek into the ears of a couple of fine ladies 1"
"Not at all, Miss Bradshaw. He is not a silly fellow : I
like it. I don't understand much of it, but it sounds hearty
and nice. He shows his teeth while he is talking, and his-dim-
ple in the left cheek gets deeper'every day ; and it is suggest-
ive (the talk, I mean) of whole barns full of ripe yellow wheat,
and orange pumpkins, and ears of corn, and things, and cellars
filled with delicious' root-a-beggar apples, and Murphy pears,
and Winter Nelis potatoes.''"


20           HOW ZOE' SNUBBED PETER.
Zoe threw a triumphant glance at Sabrina, after this oit.
burst of enthusiasm ; and she was decidedly put out by her
outburst of merry laughter.
" Peter don't laugh at me," pouted she. "I always nod at
him in the right places, and say over enough of the long words
at the ends of the sentences to show that I'm attending.
Mamma gets more puzzled than I, and she don't even try to
nod, but pulls on such, a helpless face, that I have to go and
kiss her directly. You know Unle Dick always took care of
our affairs as long as he lived ; and I daresay Mr. Scraper isn't
a very good manager. But Peter will set it all right. He
knows all about it."
w'Ohi the nonsense of the ideal,
With red-cheeked Peter for the real ! "'

laughed Sabrina. "But I do know that my big brother holds
an opinion with that enthusiastic Genesee farmer who con-
sidered it a fatal mistake to describe heaven as a 'city,' when
it would be so intensely attractive under figure of a model
farm with Yankee improvements."
".I think so too, I'm sure. Isn't our pretty Roaring River
much nicer than any city?  God made the country ; men make
the towns. I don't believe he will ever shut us up behind.
walls, even though builded of all manner- of precious stones."
"(Wel, Zoe, you have made, up your mind to°'change your
condition, as Deacon Proddy says; and you have it all fixed
and settled. I don't see'how it ever comes to -pass that a girl
brings herself to say 'yes,' and nierge her individuality into her
master's. Poor Hetty Peebles used to hook onto me at school,
and bore me ,with sighing=confidences. She said it was heart-
breaking torefuse so many, and she was so fond of going over-
the number of times she had said the 'fatal no,' that Chandy

t

I

HOW ZOE SNUBBED~ PE TER.

21

lo FlQp
}
h t.l
E t
is {

and Sam always called her the 'fatal no-ist.' Ah ! Zoe, child,
can it be possible that all our school-pleasures are over ? "
"Sabrina, look at me !" flashed out Zoe. "Are you not en-
gaged?"
" Engaged ? no indeed ! ". Sabrina threw back her head.
" Do you love Henrique Zambrano?"
"No," very decidedly.
"rOr Chandy?"                . .
"Love the haughty boy Chandos?     e handsome play-
fellow of our childhood ! the promoter of/bur .frolics ! the jes-.
ter ! the friend of 'Bill Shakes' ! :the kind, generous, funny,
selfish, good-for.naught 'pretty boy' ! Yes, to borrow the words
of our excellent Deacon Williams, I do, in a manner, as you
may say, seemingly, love Sir John ; but prospectively as a lover,
and then as a husband - oh, no !"
" Well now, be true, Sabrina --:Sam Slaughton ? "
Still "no," but more faintly, andvith rising color in her face.
" I like them all, Zoe-; but as for love -nonsense ! My
father's daughter loves .her home, and her ease, and her sweet
liberty. .Why, Zoe, you and I are only sixteen years old !"
" I shall be seventeen next month, dear. Mamma was mar-
ried at seventeen. She approves of early marriages."
" Oh, of course it is all right if you like it. I'm'sure Ishall
richly enjoy having you for my sister."
"Yes, dear, thank you ! The samer:to you" (bowing).
"Peter says he will take you to Paris with us next year."
" Oh, will he ! Very kind of Peter, Im sure," replied Sa-
brina, loftily. "I'm not in the habit of being taken about. I
prefer to make my own plans mostly."
Zoe laughed, like the elf of mischief she was.
"Very well- You will make your own plans to be my
bridesmaid, of course." I shall have Pauline for the other,,nd

'.1
111 .E p
( i1 l;  ~

f lii I
jJI

I

'!
ii
-


HOW ZOE SNUBBED PE TER.

my cousin Dickon for second bridesrnan. I think they will
make a gay little couple. And I want our Chris, if I can
match her with a mate."
"rWould it not becruel to ask her. We know very well that
her mother would not furnish her dresses; and, poor, girl, her
heart is too sore to taste any pleasure, even if she gets back
health enough.
"I am afraid so, indeed; but we wont despair. Peter in-
tends asking Jan Vedder to stand with you. I rather wanted to
have my cousin, Phil Penhurst, from Canadasset, but he says'
he does not know him, and he should not like to remember our
wedding so intimately mixed up with a perfect stranger. And,
besides, Phil is going to be married to that pretty Annie Tuftii,
and she mightn't like to have him stand with you, you know.
but if you had only known Phil, Sabrina, he'd just suit you, -
'grand, gloomy, and peculiar,' -and, of course, it would be
much nicer and more comIete if you had a lover - all in; the
family, you see. I should enjoy having Chandy and Sam at my
wedding, of all things; but there's no knowing, when they will,
come home, and Peter wont hear of waiting. He is getting to
put on, plenty of airs lately. I shall have to snub him, I'm
afraid.'"
Well, I like that ! Snub one's lord and master elect ! A
man whom I can snub, wont ever suit me. ! "
"What a pity about Phil Penhurst ! ,-You couldn't lay a fin-
ger upon his dignity. Such high mightiness.! And I know it
will be all thrown away on that Annie Tuftii. However, it
can't be helped now. And, really and seriously, Sabrinea, I
don't see how you can go back to school, because' you will have,
to help me select my trousseau. Mamma is such an invalid, I
can't have the heart to drag her about among shops ; and I in-
tend to make the most of the occasion. One doesn't marry

22

HOW Z OE SNUB     D PE TE R           23
but once, and I shall thiroiihly enjoy choosing pretties. We
shall have to make a journey to New York, and, of course, she
will go, and we'll take the greatest care of her. And we'll coax
your darling; dear little beauty of a yellow-haired mother to:
come along too, and show them off. Such handsome rmammas
don't grow on bushes. I like Peter's kinfolk, that's one" com-
fort."
"Thank you, Zoe! And Peter's kinfolk like you ; that's a
still greater comfort."
"Yes, of course! And we'll stop at the Metropolitan. I
love to stay there, it is so close by every thing, and right over
Niblo's. And we'll go -and see Mr. and Mrs. Florence, and
have a good hearty cry over that dear, delightful ' Ticket of
Leave Man,' and a laugh with Mrs. St. Evremond, given with
a roll. Oh, you/must come along,, Sabrina; positively you
must !"
"When is this important event to be consummated? (as Miss
Dulcet says, who is a happy little woman now, by the way).:
"'When shall Hymen light'his torch?'
" The first of April, - All-Fools' Day. Appropriate, isn't it ?
But there is one thing about it :A the fools began with Adam and
Eve, and wont end till the last man and woman. Peter had
some practical farming reason for wishing it on that day -I
forget if it was a cattle-show or a sheep-washing. Oh, I re-
member now, --there's to -be a great Agricultural Convention
somewhere,- at Chicago, or Hartford, or - well, never mind the
place; at any rate, he wants to include it in our wedding trip."
" That's Peter all over," replied Sabrina, laughing; "beware
Zoe, dear, how you make an issue~ about any thing, or you'll
find, to your mortification, that you come in only second best
to some brindle bovine, some~costly cottswold. You remem-
ber the weeping widower, who declared over his wife's coffin,

IE li  lt y
1,1
°'IE I r ~
iii  I
f3 Ef 'l, 1  f


~24

NOW ZOE SNUBBED PETER.

I'd, as ,lief -lost my best cow, and I believe liefer, than my
poor Malvina' ?"'
"'m not afraid; Peter always does as I bid him ; I have
him in goody training; he knows 'I've ga to have my-own way,
and I intend always to keep a steady hand over him. The
point now in debate is, the absolute necessity for iPeter's sister
to stop at home till it is all over."
"Three months ahead! I certainly can't afford to lose so
much valuable time, Zoe. The classes would be far in ad-
vanceof-me; rand I shall graduate with my friends, or not at
all. You can go on with the minor details, and you may count
on me for the New York trip and the grand finale ; luckily,-we
have vacation in April.
"But, Sabrina," said Zoe, rather ruefully, "'I didn't think
you would care about going back without me; Pm sure I
shall be. too lonely without you.. Why we have been play-
mates ever since 'we could walk; half the fun of getting mar-
ried, will be spoilt, if you persist in going off; I think you
might do that little for your own Zoe; come now, say you will
stay."
(Let us try on the corals, and talk up the dresses," said
Sabrina, decidedly. "La patience estamere, mais son fruit est
doux   one of poor dear-Chris's favorite proverbs. I wonder
how she is to-day ? of a truth she has need of patience; don't
talk of lovers to me, while I have her in mind.",
"Ah, yes ! but my cousin Phil is not Otho.Groenveldt, nor
are you Christabel."
"Neither-you nor I, Zoe, are for an instant to be compared
to her," answered Sabrina, warmly.            .
" Oh, of course, I'm full willing to admit her sup  rity and
yet I=would not have believed oute, that I could ever love her
so truly, or permit you to do so either."    -

HOW ZOE SNUBBED PETER.                 25
"You did glimmer with the green opalescence for a while,"
said Sabrina, kissing the ripe lips offered to here
Before the sun went down, rosy-cheeked Peter drove up to
the door, with a perfect chime and clangor of bells ; seated in
the new sleigh, he had just got home from Mansuy's, drawn by
his ponies. He threw the reins over their backs ; for he had
trained them to stand without hitching ; and ran into the wide
hall, and looked into-the empty drawing-room. The great arm-
chair, which the two girls had vacated, stood before the rug, and
the fire shot out some sparks for greeting ; a long clean "early-
rose " potatoe, which he had taken from his pocket, as a
specimen of his crop, when he came to dinner, lay on the
centre-table, among the Christmas gifts. Rainbow Goldsmith
(as Pauline was accustomed to call Chris's pussy), was dos.a-dos
with Zoe's King Charles, a round ball apiece, in the corner.
Peter heard voices upstairs, and he turned from the pleasant
picture, and called at the foot in a hearty, cheery way, {for his
betrothed.
Presently the little gypsy appeared on the landing, arrayed
i a black evening 'dress of airy fabric ; the rosy corals de-
pending from  her ears; caressing her arms; the diaden
above her glossy hair, and 'the necklace rising and falling
with every eager breath. She took a flying slide, with her
hand on the balusters, and such light patting of her little feet,
that she seemed scarcely to touch the stairs; and as swiftly
and softly as a wren drops into her nest, she alighted in Peter's
strong arms, spread out to receive her.
"Oh, Peter !" exclaimed she, making up a -rosy business
g.guth, "you've forgotten something very important."
S" Pumpkins and beans ! what is it ?" Peter looked anx-
iously into her glowing face. Tell me quick, so that I cat go
and- do it."

ot
1
it'KI
ii~ ttS1  tI

_ O;


HOW ZOE SNUBBED PETER.

qu:never got a watch-chain, to these corals, for dinner
toilette, you know, without the - necklace , black silk, or
grenadine?"
"That's a fact," said Peter, sa ping his fingers. "What a
stupid woodchuck I am, to be sure ! but I'll send right off to.
night, and have it up by express."
" Oh, no, don't, Peter, please. It wouldn't be the same at
all, as if youchose it yourself;"
"No more. it wouldn't,:either, Zoe, and I'll go in the- mid-
night train."
Zoe laughed merrily. "You ridiculous Peter! you'll do no
such thing. I'd rather wait till we all are there, about the
dresses.and things ; I must buy Sabrina some jewels, at Ball
and. Black's" (this in awhisper close to his ear, which she
pulled down, for convenience), and you and I will steal off
some evening, and have a good little time, and a.supper at
Delmonicos, wont we? I think I shall choose opals, -she is
so fond of calling me that; and I know, she likes my ring"
Qdssing it)s " don't you tell, will you ? And Peter !" (This in a
lodWvoice.)-"Of course, you entirely agree with me in think-
in that it is dear duty for Sabrina to stay and.help me get
g    .riedainstead of posting off to that stupid Rosenbloon,
uow-don'tayou, Peter?"
"Well, no, Zoe, I don't. I think she ought to graduate with
her class. I'l helpyou get married ; and I should suppose one
Bradshaw wasFenough .to dangle after-you," said steady-going
Peter, in a firm, strong way. "By Jove ! how'wonderful' you
ae thatdress Iyou1make me think of peaches and cherries,
and strawberries and rose-apples; anti I don't know what il
INe half amind to kiss you, Zoe."
eMsia  ore   e had finished speaking, she was gone.'
" Peter," said she, pouting, and flying up the stairs, "I wont

I

have any watch chain. You needn't trouble'
me.
She did not reach the landing, before Peter caught her up;
for he took three stairs, with his long legs.; and so had the ad-
vantage of her.
"Don't, Mr. Bradshaw ! You are crushing my dress, please
leave me alone 1"
"Zoe, dearest !"  I suppose there must have been a dash
of reproach mingled with the surprise, in steady Peter's eyes
and voice; for Zoe, though she persisted in pushing him off,
colored violently.
"I don't.like you any more. You ought to agree with me,
and take my part."
"Agree with you, right or wrong, Zoe-?" asked Peter,
smiling; "is that my role?  Now, I'll be .more generous than
that ; I only ask you to tlhik my thoughts,.when they area on
the square,"and you know and feel it. YoU may pullout all
the chickweed, and pusley, arid keep only thefuschias, and
verbenas,.and those ; I'll. not complain.  Take youpart 
Yes, darling, I will, against world,-that comes with the
vow I am studying every ;night,_beore .I say. my prayers, 3o
as to have it allon my tongue's-end before -te. day  ,Let's see
how does it go, ----Withal my woddly~goodse-hu--4ove,
cherish, protect tiR death'You'YOUsee, Ze, 'm p ithe nain
parts ; I've got all the seeds in ; only I haven't them rolleddown
yet. It shall be the  siness of myife.t.  kep that yow, Zoe
my. proudest pleasure"
She, stole.p glancep m ois.glisning .y es, andi made
her heaheat, theyewere s     Kotady,  dlying;4 buti  per-
verse moodimpelled her. to persist,
"Very we f, ir t;then beg iow, by saying9tet $ab4Na
shall stop at home."

46.

11  II  'v  1
I I  { F    I {
,' '  4 ,a 11 t
f  t ( 'I  i
71I1 ' I  4' 10,


HOW'ZOE SNUBBED PETER.                                 HOW ZOE SNUBD        PETER.
' No, my heart's best darling, Sabrina shall go to school."  "Not much, Zoe ; only if you don't marrf me the first d
"Good-evening, sir; I wont have any watch-chain, and.I  of next April, you never will-that's all"  He turned, a
wont get married at all; never in the wide world ! Now,  walked firmly down the stairs.
there,!"                                                 Zoe watched him, and her color deepened and paled, and
Sabrina, who had kept wisely out of sight, during this dia. faint sickness rushed over her. Peter leaving her in range
logue, and whose proximity was entirely forgotten by the  Would he come back ? Would he look at her before he l
talkers, -Sabrina wondered how her rosy cheeked brother  her? Only three stairs more!  His thick hair curled do
would come out of his fix.                              around his head, and his neck looked firm and white as a m
- (Zoe, beau y, don't ! even in jest; don't say that ! what ble pillar. His fresh, ruddy cheeks! she could just see th
would-life be without you."                            crimson glow, and she knew how his eyes shone - quiet a
"Humph -me ! It seems your own way is the most ini,   steady, although they were looking straight before him. H
portant thing to your life ; and I'm not in jest; oh, no, sir-! far brown, shapely hand moved down the rail as he step
from it. I'm in real earnest. This subject is vastly too important Only three stairs more ! If she let him go, she might nev
for irony;, I've made up my mind to go back to school with get him back. In fact, something told her that she nev
Sabrina; my education ;needs finishing as much as hers ; and could. And she loved him dearly. Her heart thumped fa
if she- ought to go, I ought to; and I'm going to stay on, ever The last stair, and not a look : he was marching through t
so many years, till1I'm as accomplished as-- any thing ! . The  hall, his hand was on the door-knob!  She called softly
fact is, I'm disgusted with you, Peter .Bradshaw."        " Peter!"
She pushed- him off and stuck out her lips perversely, and re--  "What is it, Zoe ? " said he.
sistedall his efforts to approach her.                 "Why are you going so fast ?"
After a little, the young man's face changed,:the loving light  " I've nothing to stop for any more."
in his eyes clouded over, and he shut his -teeth firmly together,  " But - Peter - I'm coming."
and looked steadily atiis tantalizing little fiancee, who patted  Down she flew like a feather. And again she landed in
the -carpet with her slipper, and- shook pettishly her shoulders,  arms outstretched to receive her.
looking down sideways..                                   "You are as obstinate as Pauline's donkeys, you old Pete
- Dosyou mean~itZoe?" he said, quietly.                And I know quite well that when I begin to give in, there'l
"Yes, I do mean it. You are so poky!"  And she looked  no end of it. You ridiculous fellow!"-
as if she did mean intend she thought herselfikused. So pro.  Zoe smiled brightly, and looked as sweet and friendly as
volingdfPeter testandoutagainsi er whis, andook-as solid  shower-washed rose. And really Peter lost nothing of her
and firm as a rock. " Of course I mean it," she added, as he spect because he had -a mind of his own and manilinessute sta
4j4at speak, or cax, or protest. "Yes!I and-now, what have fast to his own convictions-against her. She acknowledged%
you got to say about it?" "*

ay
se
eir
nid
[is
d.
er
er
st.
he
r !
be
re-
ndI
~er


30-

i&amp;W ZOR NUBBED' PETER.

Snster   Peterredeived-hergladly ; but it was a minute before
the cloud cleared ofhis honest face.
"iDid you mean it, Zoe ?." he asked half doubtfully.
"M ean  what?"
"That about goingto school.",
"19New don't be poky any more, Peter. -I'e come down to
you, haven't I?  I adhere. I mean to be married All-Fools'
Day, if you like to be the other fool," she:-replied, smiling and
blushing.
"Don'tdo it again, Zoe; it hurts."
I wont if I can help it, Peter; but you are such a ridicu-
los fellow! You put on no -nd of airs just now, dij1nh't you?
And as toySabrina, she'll go anyhow, let you say what you may;
so there's no use in out wasting our breath disputing over her,
you see."
Of course she will, darling. .She's setter than a donkey.
And speaking offoolsand donkeys, Posey and Whitare at the
door, waiting for you to come out and look at them. - Suppose
you get into something warm, and drive 'Sabrina home, and then
come down to the church and pick me up, and we'll try their
paces on the flats. The sleighing is glaze smooth down there."
iAh ! has my new sleigh come, Peter ? Why didn't you
tell me before?"
"It is at the door, Zoe."
"Oh, dear! do be quick and show m  my turnout'!"
TSier seized his" htih'and the two random to'  door.
Peter pulled a fur cloak fronthe rick'as they dashed by and
huiedly-wrappedher i it;- fo the keenwind blewears out
ofa blacke   whichWereliini rg there. She examined
the'whole estlisn&amp;teriticaly leigi, horsespharness,
rehl amexurein     ' iint&amp; itpectkin ,while Peter stood
proudly by;

AN. OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE:

-31

"-What darling ponies ! Posey and Whim ! Oh, you young
villain ! how dared you give them such names? I must try
them directly. Do you believe they will get to know me,
Peter, and to love me ? Pretty creatures ! See them look at
me !"
"Oh, yes ! I whispered to them, while-I was training them,
who was to be their mistress. But they didn't know how pretty
you were, that is why they study you so. You must feed them
sugar. You know quite well how to do that  sugar-is nice."
"Come right away into the house, and let me get ready.'
In the hall, Zoe stopped and 'put her hands upon Peter's
beaver coat-sleeves, and looked up in his face.
"Peter! -the truth is, I am very fond of you, because you
are just as splendid as you can be and live ! "
"Oh, oh !" said Sabrina Bradshaw, to herself, "that is. the
way you snub our Peter, is it, Miss Zoe ? Well, I think he
will probably bear a good dealof that kind of snubbing."
CHAPTER III         -
AN OLD- FRIEND IN THE FURNACE.
ONTHS had passed now, at this Christmas-time, since
Ruth Blair commenced her battle in her -lonely home
asking -counsel or help wonly from the great Fountain
of help. Sorrowfully, and withenitent tears, she lived over the
summer. Retracing each waywid stepbitterly bewailing her
blindness, and wonderingat-her per rsefolly and thesham
ful wrong she had done her noble=hu band, bher feohsmad
jealousy; suffering=herself to be played upon by Belie Brandong

lip
It
1'     '~
,! { t "}i1

L


32

AN OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE.

-" a school-girl ! a mere child !" (Heaven keep us from such
children-!)
Those of our dear readers who went with us through the
trials of Christabel, the Widow Goldsmith's daughter, will recall
the exploits and schemes of that beautiful blonde whom Chandy
named Mopsa Pandora; and to all such as didn't, we would
say in the words of the poet, "Buy me, and I will do you
good," because we are now to follow out the lives of some old
acquaintances.
The glamor was removed, the spell broken, and Ruthie
could clearly see the drift of the half-suggestions, artful insinu-
ations and skilful maneuvres to secure George Blair's attentions
and give them the appearance of devotion, when she 'knew it
would gall. And the wife, "the little bud of a woman !" could
have beaten herself for. so easily lending her silly soul to the
furtherance of such exploits. Her vain longings for a grand
house, pretty dresses, and rich ftvniture ; her foolish .ambition
for a prominent place in society, in which her good sense had gone
to sleep, and all the latent weakness of-her nature had struggled
to the surface. The small matron khd meant to hide, thought
were hidden in her own breast, and lo ! her noble husband
had read and/understood --and pronounced upon her - even
her secret weakness, her most carefully concealed follies. Belle
Brandon had forced an intimacy upon her. It was none of her
seeking; and yet it had borne such bitter fruits that she was
brought to ask herself the question, " Am I weaker in character
than that child, that -school-girl! 'since the strongest should
rule?".
Mrs. George Blair had an inborn love for womanly pretti-;
nesses which had ever h  natural license. Pure-bred ; gentle-
folks on both sides ; orph : - at fifteen ; a teacher at sixteen ;
and her nineteenth birthdaynot full-orbed,  she was left alone

AN OLD FRIEND IN T'E FURNACE.

with her child. The only man she had ever loved, had left 'her
to work out her life as she could. He was a noble, goodfellow
too ; and thought he was giving her back her only chance of
happiness, -freedom and a divorce !
We are accustomed to expect that marriage will mature the
character as by a miracle ; but the tastes and idiosyncrisie'sare
not changed by the utterance of the 'responses. The habits and
desires do not disappear, nor the individuality, when thre ring
is slipped upon the little, smooth finger. The 'bishop's bless-
ing may soften for the time the heart of the' white-robed irl
whom he is launching into' her untried life, and bring1tears"to
her eyes; 'but that, nor even the first husband-kiss; oes not
interrupt the current of her sensibilities, nor medamorphoseh r
soul. (And there'a e cases' on record,'+where 1th e youngY =roso
has kept his money as closely buttoned in his p ocketafte"he
had pronounced the vow, "With all miyworf lwogrk 6d ,'thee
endow," as in his bachelor 'days, and perhaps toutedit and
hoarded-. quite unpleasant.
Poor Ruth had been a. tender little mother and a fond 'wife
till is 'shadow fell over her. 'Don't judge her too' harshly ;
We all make lips sorneti.es'; we all have to',confess 'to
foolish wishes hours of bidet discontent with dur'p sition
in: life. Many of us think 'we cou;d gladiy shae off ur
peculiar burdens, and lift''sote that lkli.htert afisng  r
neighibors. And I .incy there ', not 'adryof''bn 76g
wives, but couuldbe rmade'jealous as Ruth was; if d  ie4ti-
ful lelie Brandon showedoff her eyes aiid dinples bri1fAy
and successfully at your George. This last reilarkIsthon
in by way of 'flier, of'course. ishal;l Ab 4osi J d;,
peteht to pronouinc  Wthout      j 3"(otge.
The  ungybksmith could i      $e tdewthe '6bahie
poss'ed'fgthe idea' that    ha                di i  f  ivtr

_                    y       ,   j
'  r i
i
j      1
P
i  Y
J     i  r'  r
; r
t     /
r     t       t
M

r

I  . k
1:f  _ {
r   1
II
111 I i ,


34       AN OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE.
dawned onhim till this summer,; nor could ie have explained
to himself where he found out that she loved Otho Groen..
veldt He was clear-sighted enough too; but how can one see
a landscape truly when there is- a green glass constantly held
between him and it ?' Did you ever look at the wondrous
sight which lies spread out beneath you, when you have gone
up that fearful railway,.and landed safely in the little tower at
the ato fAdkiHolyoke? - wonderful ! gorgeous !  the yellow
fields; t.i:windings of the red, sandy -road; the pale=green
p    _ari-ds-thefsparkling water ; the distant church,:and many-
tintedtewna butsomebody comes along with that-glass contri-
vanceterming in so di erse hues, and thrusts it between you and
your jog ladlit the wordis all one sickly green:?- only in
GogeWBlair'saease,.the glass;towhich his kind friend treated
hih  invisible. He (kougi/.he sawdl things clearly..
Sa  th yder&amp;d much her friendship forotho Groenveldt,
aM a-d'nothing4there for which to blame herself. His
love for her young friend, Christabela0oldsrnith, was so patent
t+het ,hat she ha{no ideadit could be hidden.from.,Cjeorge.
PooteanestA=eorge4 who©had used to take such pleas  in
his inveions; and to'imrerse himself in hi  rental calcu.
hid  ins abathe If the cdtentof"their liv  ad.been how-.
igi ints-iraPehzenriershe 'would have discussed itTwith
hia; Mttere + bega n   openingHof Ruths heartin that
d   . ttonafor utadrarytime.nShe thought over the long,
confidetial'taksfia which.she hadfalways helithe place of
ag  se;ier rather re piex  to her grawefriend:.piisavowal
ofhiilo enfor her ,andIrepose;in hersdatinga b solong
agoggeIhthotle were btchildrenpand swotn brother and
sister ;- neve:hktshoeniing y the nenory of die  netime
i      {th    i sa herfeisheA  thha e h ee  somthingidearer,
aft dte Mtiohl~iphfed likedthe.msts d the nirigpd

AN OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE.

35

left the kindest friendship behind it. No, that was all clear:
not a thought had ever strayed from her noble giant. Even in
her ambitious dreams, he had'been Lord Paramount.
She worked at the tangled skein-; and though many things
pointed toward Belle Bragxdon, as the - author of  ; certain
heliotrope-scented letter, which George had left upon his desk
the night of her' great :trouble (when she had spoken bitter
words to'her husband, and shut herself into her roon, and had
come forth a lonely, desolate woman), and which she kept
safely, and pondered much. She had nothing tangible t&amp; fix
on; and could not afford her wily enemy the triutnyh of 'iip=
braiding her,- or even disclosing to any the secret of her
misery. She fastened upon the painful.certainty, that she"had
forgotten God, dropped her religion out of her thoughts;her
trust was gone ; she had cut loose from safe- moorings and
was drifting  drifting. She prayed for a sight of'the 'Friend's
face in the gloom, for, a touch of his blessed hand; she cast
her griefs and sins at his feet, .and took up' her 'trial. She
schooled herself to bide her time, andi'make' no sig'; she
n    have. tried to trace George, but for the one seritente nf
his etter w      e found upon the desk, "I doriot think
I wish ever      you- again," that ll ld her hand 'hen Sea
tried to write,.ante compelled herto silence; Ybut tihe d,
vindictive bitterness, possessedher soul'o longer, and,despit
those cruel words, she carriedkthe letter in he bsoriaid
bathed it often-with 'her tears.
There had been a famous sewingsocity in RaringIer,
in which little Ruth was a zealous worker, ard from nhicse
had expected great goed.  Bt it 'Collapselaferhe'g.
plosion ofa Fair.-, The'lIs  an    ens and  dahthf
ings Were ended and the !udsX pNrop iaed id$6digi~a
smiled, ihe snies had ntsbeez allefzeihrif

, IN its
'
'i


36

AN OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE.

how. First, to purchase a costly Bible and psalm-book for the
pulpit (it was rumored that Rev. Dr. Perfect had made
scathing comments upon the shabbiness of the old ones, when
he exchanged with 'Mr. Growing); second, to constitute Mrs.
Deacon Williams, and Mrs. Esquire Hitchcock, life-members
of the Tract Society ; leaving a balance unaccounted for, which,
it leaked out, had been bestowed upon Belle Brandon, in, re-
wardfor the active share she had taken in the Fair ; which was
so far true, that a vote had been carried in a small gathering
of the sisters; from which Mrs. Goldsmith and Dulcet Pettibone
were carefully excluded, to present the lovely blonde with an
appropriate offering.  But the kind design got somewhat
warped, for Deacon Williams laid hands on'the money, to pay
for a certain invisible green habit in which Miss Brandon had
shone resplendent up at Craigenfels, on the occasion of the
great horseback excursion ; and it was a sort of pity too, for she
had been minded to invest the money -which she considered
farly earned, and had "laid pipe" to get-in jeweler's wares;
and gauds and ornaments - so they were rich and costly-
were dear and pleasant to her soul.
The nine-days wonder which George Bl     sappearance
from Roaring River had caused, and for=wh   manner of
reasons were assign edsubsided at length; the stand-up tussle
over the new church edifice taking off the attention of the peo-
ple, and affording no end of opportunities.for personal encoun-
ters, wordy battles, and hard names, in which the sisters freely
joined without'the ceremony of inquiring whether or no it were
a freefight.
Old Miss Pettingill, the tailoress, who lived down on the
flats and Mrs. Esquire Hitchcock, wagged their tongues over
Girges conduct, and tried hard to get up a report, which
Mrs  T onWilliams indorsed conecting his stden disap..

AN OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE.             37
pearance with Belle Brandon's going; but that was so palpably
untrue, that it died without a gasp ; and Adeliza Euphemia said
" she'd always known that that 'ere Blair had another family
down South, and probable he'd gone to visit 'em," - adding,
"You needn't mention it from me, but I heerd on't from good
authority ; such folks makes me drefful sick of gettin' married.
Don't they yeau ? Oh, forlornity ! "
The gifted Adeliza also paid a-visit of condolence and espial
.to. the Horseshoe, without great results. She found 4tuth
quiet and collected, and ready to parry all their inquiries with
civil indirection,-little Ruth, who never took anybody into
her confidence. There was one true young heart, though, to
whom love gave clairvoyance to understand her grief without
the need of words.
She soon settled upon her course : the school was opened
to her. The, teacher had got married; Miss Dulcet Pettibone
had became the wife of a Gonecusset Captain Slocum, and was
keeping house, with vast enjoyment of the change -in her conr
dition. Therefore Ruth fitted her, parlor (where she had
been so happy, and where her mother's Pleyel stood close to a
wonderful barge -chair) with desks and benches, and bought a
globe, and a jugof ink, and some maps, and then set to work
to drum up her pupils ; but she put the barrel-chain out of
sight first. George helped her to make it, and he whistled her
cradle-song while he was work g ; and sung it all througA
ever so many times.

4

"The cricket sings under the hearth,
The bird is asleep on the tree,
The owl comes out, and stares about
Some poor little mouse to see.
But my baby lies snug and close,
.his curly pa e'on my ara
And his cunning little dimpled tos,
Stuck out to the fire to warm."

I     I

: ; :  a
 7
- i    '
'     ff{
_',[     3
}f  ;
,, . f
I+=,
,
.~
;;

' 1  f  , '     l!  '  f
w                            I    ,    '  1i1  ' y
r '   7
I!     ry


88     AN OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE.

She: opened the piano, and played the melody, and sang it
through: you could -scarcely have heard her, though in the
next room, so choked was her voice with sobs; and she knelt
before that chair, and asked for, strength, often and often, in the
silent garret, alone with God and her trouble ; and she got it,
and lived on it, and courage which sustained her. She can-
vassed for- scholars, coming home after each task, pale and
sad,.but -firm to struggle and to endure.
.P"line Bradshaw, -,Dick Walsingham, and Gracie Jenkins
were among the first pupils; and Irene Bisbee brought her little
sister; and Mary McCross got the Proddy twins; and Payson
Williams begged'hard to be. allowed to go. The boys bumped
him,:and tore his cap, and.knuckled him, he said, down to the
"school-house ; " but his mother said " deestric teachin':" was
good enough for her "young ones ;" and so he played hookey
androbbed bird's-nests, and stole apples as his brother Bax had
4ge before .hm; and he also was beaten with many stripes..
T4Jhe parlorwassoonfilled, and Ruth plunged into her labor
with then zeal-which works against memory and-drowns thought ;
and herpupils had a happy time of it, and grew daily in grace
and wisdom.
George;Blair left: money in the Phoenix Bank, in Toppwn.
He t-.d Ruth._ about it, and that it Was for-he.:  .
cogIdn't touch it. She'd. have starved first lShe would not
al, don /is home Where h. leg her, the-wouldaremain. If
he wished to seek her, he should find her at her 'post ; and she
could not keep down the hope that he would return to her.
Such a delusion could not last forever,and he would come to
his senses, and find howhe had'been. deceived (so she kept
saying to herself). And her heart jriumppd when a shadow
passed the window, or a step souaed on the walk sometimes ;
so that she had to press:it wither tremling hands and gasp

AN OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE.               391
for breath. Then, the horrid dread that he wished to believe
her false, tried to creep in and chill her soul. Butt after. every
perusal of his last letter she drove it out, and believed-triumph-
antly in his great truth and goodness.
At any rate, her duty was plain. ,She must live on, faithful
over a few things-; and try to be patient and to be useful... And
she bridged over the dismal present, which she accepted as a
time of penance and trial and labor, with hopes of reunited hap-
piness -hopes which a less elastic nature might have felt no
ground for. - And she had hours when her eyes filled with rare
light, and her face cleared and glowed; and she gave herself
up to the joy of dreaming of her absent husband. His mathe-
matical books.-and instruments were very full of him,-and she
studied hard, in her leisure; often laying down the volume to
recall -his looks, or burying her face among its leaves, the faint
odor of the sandal and cinamon woods he was}fond of using,
and which.he kept in his chest among his- books and instrua
ments, reminded her of him.,  She remembered how he had
tossed up his curls and frowned, and how the abstracted scowl
had dissolved-'into a kindly smile, when she had come and
dropped a little kiss upon his cheek. Among all her memories,
(and it seemed that she'had power tortake up {every link'of her
life since her firsttdneeting with the youngblacksmith, thatewild,
autumn afternon, when the~wind-storm had turned her un
brella wrong side out; and he, passing by and seeing her futile
struggles with the inverted parapluic, had stopped and helped
her master= the enemy so-raging with the "depravity of inani-
mate things," and 'afterwards attended het to 'her boarding-
place), among'-allher memories'of himpnothiig oofieanness,
selfishness, camning, r tn kitidnes came to the surface: Every
act of his was fine, nobledear, beautiful '1 Every look hones
clear iihanlinesa, and most ten~der 'dve.

v4

'I," r
t  I
ii


AN OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE-

AN OLD FRIEND IN THE FURNACE.

Ruthic soon had a helper she had not expected. It hap.-
pened on this wise : There was a young Irish lassie, named
Sonsie Eagan, in whom Ruth took a lively interest, and who was
a diligent and faithful learner of all kitchen-lore which the
'thrifty housewife, Mrs. Deacon Williams, could impart by pre-
cept and example. And besides this, the girl having one of those
restless intellects which must push on, she picked up crumbs
of all sorts of knowledge, coaxed or surprised out of the rest of
the household.. The Deaconess was forced to confess that Son-
sie was a "likely, capable girl," and would have been sorry to
part with her. But she dodged or put aside all talk of wages,
and gave her faithful maid just as few garments as she could.
Mrs. Eagan knew what starving and deep trouble was; but she
was getting a decent living now, and she grumbled, and told
Sousie to "lave it, and niver put another day into it."  But the
girl laughed, and refused with some of her rich, racy Irish fun,
and= stuck at her post undaunted by hardship or abuse..
".I'll learn all t' auld dragon can tache me, mother, before I
lave her ;" said she, " and when IAn ready, I'll find me a ser-
vice aisy enough. I must be perfect fust, though ; and she's
the tidiest, clanest body, wid her gret fist, that you iver met wid.
She just; takes hold"of her work by the handle. It's a real
pleasure to see her -turn it off, as perfect'as Ieads; though we
might get dumb in her service, for 'tis ne'er a'lilt nor a jig that
she'll have piped up in her Ihitchen if she can help it, no mather
how , arm the merry sun shines above, nor the light hearts
dance inside of us. But danht you'fret, mother. I'll get a ser-
vice among the Roaring Rivers,' one fine day   I've -had
egu h of the Gonecussets ; they're mostly of the one stripe,
barn' Captin Slocum and Mr. Bisbee, and the best 'of the
others is just a dose for a grown person."
'On the morning of the departure of the young scholars" for

Rosenbloom (that was in early autumn, you know), after seeing
t e last of Chris, and watching the puffing engine round the
bend, Sousie made haste to keep a promise she had given "her
white angel," to find a home for the great pussy, Rainbow,
whom Chris dearly loved. So she went up to the widow's and
coaxed the deft Egyptian with nuts and raisins, of which he
was extravagantly fond ; and taking him in her arms, she set
off at a good brisk pace on her two-mile walk. He lay in her
embrace, with his great, double fore-paws dangling, his mottled
tail switching, and his yellow eyes winking and blinking in the
sunshine. And he uttered short, little "permous," like barks'
occasionally, as his sharp,. pointed ears caught a rustle among
the leaves ; luxuriously enjoying the ramble till they. got into
Long Meadow ; when he either "smelled a mice " or got sight
of a wood-pigeon, or a chipmunk. At all events, he refused to
be carried any more, though he raced at Sonsie's side gleefully
when she made top-speed, and followed, like a dog, when she fell
into a breathless walk, holding her sides and laughing at the fun
it was.' And he dived into all the bushes, lapped water out of
the running-brooks, and tried his claws on the great tree-trunks.
Old Miss Petingill welcomed him joyfully; being, as she de-
clared, "clean out of cats ; " and she ambled off into the but-
tery, and brought out a pat of butter and greased his double
paws.
" There ! " exclaimed she, sitting down in her low rocking-
chair, with her case-knife in her hand, and gazing at him blandly
through her silver-rimmed spectacles, --" there ! I expect that'll
wont the creater good. It's the sov'reignest thing I because, you
see, they've got to lick, to clean the grease off; and it takes up
their minds, so that by the time they've done lickin' they feel to
hum."
4*

t    fy'
r't    S   r
r.    i.
;i
Ii
r
'I   icy  ,
r  r   ,     r
i.
y     ,    j  y  d
!r
r    {t
1     I    y , ,
r !
i'
f          It
ri   jl
t
y    V,
.y
,i
i i' '
' ii

4   1                     ;'i ii

40


 AN OLP FRIEND ,IN THE FURNACE.

"I think Rainbow feels at home anywheres mostly," said
Sonsie, laughing.
Law, yes ! he does seem to, and he's, as fat as a pig too,
I declare, fort. The widder is a dreadful savin' critter, but
'taint likely she'd grudge nothin' o her.only darter."
As sharp Sonsie had no fancy for being pumped, she opened
her blue eyes wide at the ancient tailoress's feeler, and only re-
plied,,
" What.a long tail our cat's got 1"
Old Miss Petingill laughed.
- "The - idea!" said she. " Your're cute, aint you ? 'Tis
kinder long, aint it ?  He's a drefful handsome cat ! Come
here, Tommy !"
Rainbow, having polished off his paws, partook relishingly of
the viands offered him, lapped all the milk out of the blue
"sercer," washed his nose, and then set himself to explore ;
smelling at the orifices which suggested mice, running down
cellar, diving behind -the pork-barrel, and coming forth embroi-
dered with cobwebs ; racing upstairs and resting, for the space
o a couple of minutes or so, on the spinster's maiden couch;
which was pounded up as high and round as well-punished
geese feathers could be, and covered by a Turkey red and white
sunflower bed-quilt. Then he examined the ig.pen ; uttering
his sharp " permous," - short barks of greeting in answer to the
grunts of the two white porkers who were to buy their owner a
"winter-rig " when they should " shuffle off this mortl coil."
And he took a roll in the bed of catnip,-and- a nibble at it.
Then he dug out a. couple- of meadow moles, and tasted the
tender bits. And so, having exhausted the rescources of the
maiden's: establishment, he went back to look-,for Sonsie; and
finding her not, he made a bee-line for Brookside, where he ar-
rived about an hour before sundown,- as fresh as new.

A2

s

During the first weeks of Christabel's absence, he sought her
daily in all her accustomed haunts ; but having considered the
subject carefully, with his eyes shut, and his paws tucked under
him, he-made up his mind she was really gone, and not coming
back any more ; and after that he cut loose from the premises.
He pondered over his favorite duckling a good while,-and had
half a mind to eat him up out of harm's way; but it was only a
passing temptation; the best of cats are liable to such ; and
ducky lived on to flash the sunshine from her green feathers and
dip her polished bill into the brook ; and in due time to hatch
out a pretty brood of muscovies of her own.
Rainbow never asked any thing of anybody, but he looked as
sleek' and comfortable, and as "up to snuff," as ever. When
Sonsie got a bit of a holiday, she spent it in his company ; and
though she 'read and studied all the while, he was no ways put
out ; evidently looking upon such a course as legitimate and
proper, and just what his mistress would have done in like cir-
cumstances.
CHAPTER IV.
SONSIE GOES NUTTING, AND HAS AN ADVENTURE.
HERE had been a hoar-frost the night before, and the
chesnut-burrs were open, and. the boys and girls
were- out -amongst the trees poking away the brown
leaves and gathering the great, shining. nuts into their bas-
kets. Sonsie saw them go, by the Deacon's, when she was
sweeping the sidewalk, and she heaved a natural sigh that she
was so shut out from allchildish enjoyments.
" I'm Agoing a nutting this blessed afternoon" said she lto

1 ii
II  i
S 1
4  I
f  '
i.

A dm
ZL7-C
XT.&amp;V

SONSIL' GOES, 1 V'UTTrNG,


SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

Nora, the new cook; as she dumped her splint broom behind
the kitchen door.
"Nary a nut, me girleen !" spoke back Nora. " The auld
dragon'll sing ye another song to that, if ye pitch yer tune in
her hearin'."
" I'm going a nutting," repeated Sonsie, resolutely. " The
blessed sunshine is for me as well as them girls. And I'll be
prancin' up a good time this evenin', anyhow !"
"Ah, wisha ! but the red roses and the flax-flowers- that we
used to be gittin' those times to home -tsit, tsit ! -ochone ! "
said Nora, wiping her hot face, and trying her iron against it.
Sousie had been upon her feet ever since day-dawn, scrubbing
and cleaning, and had worked faithfully through all her tasks ;
and "filled in the chinks of her time," as she was ordered to
be sure and do, with the carpet-rags, which the Deaconess kept
on hand for that purpose. After the dinner-dishes were washed,
and rinsed, and drained, and wiped, and polished, and the dish-
cloths were scalded and dried and folded, and the last one of
her many duties done, she presented horself, and boldly made
her request. Her mistress evinced only disgust ; but Sonsie
threw in some hints about the chamber-maid's place at the.
Millville House, to be hers for the asking (a string she had
clanged too -often in the dame's ears of late, as she. knew very
well she could not have such a girl as Sonsie for the price of
half a dozen chamber-maids), she, with the sourest of visages,
gave her an hour's leave.
"An hour to go to Bradshaw's woods and back again P' said
Sonsie, walking away. "I'll be back when I come, and that'll
be when I've me fun all out and me basket full of nuts ; and
time enough too for the hard-hearted old -dragon. A day's
work is tin hours, and I've put in fourteen already, rinin' the
futs off me entirely                     f''

44,

SON'SIE GOES NUTTING.

J

Dressed- as tidily as she could be in her bits of duds, she
swung her basket onto her arm, and threw a merry jibe back to
Nora (whose thoughts were still lingering in the green pastures
of "the place to home"), as the walked away. The golden
and scarlet maple leaves fluttered down before her, and she
paused now and then and picked up the finest, discarding and
replacing as more gorgeous specimens attracted - her color-
loving eyes. And sitting down on a log, she wove them deftly
together and .garlanded them around the straw hat she wore
(it was a cast-off of the Deacon's, which she had cut down and
trimmed with bands of her own plaiting); and she stood up
and gazed down at the image the round pond showed her -
she standing on its brink inside the margin of -brown -leaves,
and gazing into its depths, black and still-- and she winked
knowingly at the eyes which laughed up at her.
"'Tis a pair of round cheeks that ye have, hinney, anyhow,"
said she, "thanks to the Deacon's good praties !"
She searched and called for. Rainbow, but he would not
come ; and she felt as though half her pleasure was lost in his
absence. In the edge of the chestnut 'wood, she- saw a column
of blue smoke shooting straight up into the sky, and then
floating away to mingle with the mists on the mountain, and she
made another loitering pause to watch its As .she did so, she
heard an odd scratching and pawing among the dried leaves,
and the- heavy switch of a lithe whip, followed by shouting,
wheezy laughter. Though her heart beat- quick,it iwas not be-
cause her stout Irish courage failed her.
" Au-ough ! ther 's divelment.beyond that. gret knowe,"
said she. "I. must-be hurryin'."  And she henttQ the hill and
climbed fleetly and swift, as a hare runs to eart. Her flying
feet cleared the low fence dividing the meadow from thewood.
lot, and carried.herdround the old gray rock,.which roselike a

1t ' II

45


SONSZE GOE NUTTING.            GOES NUTTING

tower right before her, and there she stopped a moment, motion..
less.
Bax Williams sat on the ground, hugging his knees,. and see-
sawing back and forth in ecstatic delight before an old stump,
in the hollow of which he had kindled a fire.
There was some object between him and that, which he
stopped now and then to 'contemplate in savage glee ; and
Sonsie held her breath while he picked a willow off a pile "of
cuttings beside him, and ,;struck a couple of sharp blows;
which were followed-by a fearful cry of pain, and a struggle for
life among the withered leaves. 9The blood swept through-the
veins of the young Irish girl. She knew, without looking, what
it meant ; and she leaped on with a swift bound. Poor Rain-
bow, fallen into the power of-his enemy at last ! his fore-paws
were caught fast in a double steel-trap, and he.crouched on the
ground helpless, suffering, aid at the mercy of his savage tor-
mentor, from whose composition "bowels of compassion " had
been entirely left out, and the rapidly kindling stump only a
little way 6ff; around which the forked flames were already
creeping in frightftl haste. The poor dumb creature must have
been in torture fpr along time; because his mouth was covered
with foam, and there was quite a little pool of blood around
the trap, which was firmly secured, to the ground.
g'Auough    murther! further!" It was an eldritch screech
with which S onsisprang upon Bax. She. clutched his sandy
crop inher firm, strong, little fist.4
"This is the way ye'r playing' hookey, an'. ye' mother thinks
yet gitting sffed wideidication !-{u! y limb of Satan! Ye
longsprathilin gomersa! I take.that!. and that I and, that !"
Sh oppedablow upon his ears with everyword, and shook
his heWd about tillhis eyes roled up like a dying gosling's.
. flax was taken aback by the suddennessand fierceness of

4A6

6

47

her attentions, and being an arrant coward as well as bully, he
was at first too much terrified to think of defending himself;
but he managed to struggle to his feet and get loose, and his
scrubby hair stood out like an ill-used besom with Sonsie's un-
expected manipulations. All the savage brute in the boy raged
as he backed away a step or two, pulled down his jacket, and
puffed and blowed, and glared it the girl, whose eyes blazed
and deepened with indignation.
"I'd like to strangle you !" said she, fiercely. "Come, has-
ten and put yer nasty paws to a decent service, and let out me
cat from that, before I scratch the two tiger eyes out of ye!"
and Sonsie made up her fists and sprang on, as if she longed
to begin.   -/
"Just the one I wanted to have come up to my jolly show!"
Bax kept out of her reach ; backing away, and picking up a
big willow. "You've took a front seat to the performance just
in the nick of-time. Dear Rainbow is making his debut. His
piece wont last him nigh so long as we could wish, on account
of his havin' only nine lives. Lord! I wish for his sake, and
yourn, Miss Eagan, - ma's dish-washer', that was a beggar and
a street-sweeper, -- that he'd got a, thousand; and I'd give a
dollar if that Christabel Goldsmith was here this minute !"
He gave Sonsie's basket a wicked kick which sent it spinning
behind the log.
" Leave yer brattle, and let out the poor cat !. You've no
feeling's at all, barrin' bad ones. I'll set all the Paddies in the
factory atye to-morrow if ye don't start lively. I'll whisper to
Butcher, and Long-tail-Blue, and Kind Duck, and they'll buff
your haffets more harder nor I did'!"
"-Hold yer tongue, beggar! Tell you in goin' to let the
dear creature out afore he keels up; becausexdead cat-skins
aint good for nothin'. But he'll live a good while without any

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

Iif
'k if'
01
l it  ,
i  {
VA,


SONSIE GOES NUTTING,

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

skin. He wont catch cold, neither ; cause, you see, we've got
a good fire. I'd a cut off his tail, only I want to sell his plaguy
old hide. The holes he is makin' in. his paws, cuttin' round
so, wont hurt' em none. You needn't make no fuss ; Miss
Goldsmith said hout I might kill the varmint. 'Taint nothin'
to you, nohow. But I'm sorry I can't give you a programme.
There'wasn't time to get 'em up ; bein' 'bout 'lection time."
Sonsie was not squeamish, but she turned deathly sick. She
feared it was all over with poor Rainbow, -his merry antics
and.wild pranks, and his roving, free life. He lay quite still,
with shut eyes. She put her hands to her mouth and screamed.
The gray rock threw back her voice; and, Bax, who hushed his
jeering talk, with scared face, half expecting Butcher and
Kind Duck to appear, laughed and wheezed when the echo
died and he saw Sonsie's face of despair.
" You see hollerin' wont do a mite of good ; me and you and
Rainbow has got the woods all to ourselves this afternoon,
quite selledt. When I've licked him all I want to, I'll let you
see how neat I can peel him. It's time to touch him up now,
he's dozin'off ; you shall see him frisk ; I e'ena'most split my-
self laffin' at him.".
Sonsie had been gazing at the trap,, while Bax, grinned and
talked, and she darted forward, essaying to spring it herself.
"You tech that pr' trap, if you dare ! I'll give you such a
lickin' as you never got yet ; stand off, ye sneakin' tramp, ye !"
She paid no heed to his threats, but stooped and pushed her
Singer upon the spring, but it resisted her endeavors. .Bax
watched her an instant, and rushed' upon her and struck a
stinging blow, which fell smartly across her shoulders ; pro.
tected only by her faded old gingham, but she did not give up';
. again he plied his willow, bringing both hands to bear, and

clenching his teeth: she shuddered and put allher strength to
her work.
" By golly, I'll kill you!a I'd liefer than not," snarled. Bax;
and dropping the whip, he took to his fists, raining blows on
her head ; and Sousie got dizzy, and fell forward, pale aiid
motionless over her half-dead favorite, wetting her hands and
garments in his blood.
Jan Vedder came crashing through the bushes, his game-
bag on his back, and a cocker spaniel at his heels ; and afar
off from the dim woods, came the deep bark of Flirt, the' great
sheep-dog, who was following their trail. Jan darted upon Ba,
who had stopped dead still, regarding the prostrate girl, with'
his fists clenched, and his teeth grinding together; but h ita
coward's fear stealing into his savage eyes, and curdling-'in his
blood.
Seizing him by the nape of the neck, he swung him about,
and dashed him down with his bullet-head -in fearful proxifmity
to the burning stump; then strided-oser him, and stooped to
raise- the Irish girl, who staggered to her feet, and gazed' in be-
wilderment around her, striving to collect her thoughts.
"You young devil, you've nearly murdered the girl. I never
heard such a screech as she gave; 'and what's this? =-=blod!
Where's your wound, poor child?"
Unconsciously Sonsie glanced from her reeking hands to the
trap, and Jan exclaimed, "What the deuce have we here, ehl!
Ill-begotten brute, this is your game; no wonder your sister
screamed."
He pulled open the terrible steel-jaws., "YThere, 'poor rtch!
go --if you've life enough left in you; now let me help you rey
little girl."
Sonsie, still bewildered withthe blows she had got, shook her
head, though she heard and saw as in a dream. She stod

49

48

f s
,
rt {j.
r
ft
i
r   ':   s
~
1 r
e
i
t I
i   (1
t
ii
1
,'iii


SONSIE GOES NUTTING.
instinctively and picked up her wounded pet, and sinking down
upon a log she began to cry over and kiss him, while he lay
passive, with half-shut eyes. Jan looked at her a moment, and
his indignation- mastered him; he wheeled about upon Bax
who still crouched and glowered, and seizing him by the collar,
he dragged him to his feet.
" I'll teach you to beat your sister, you cowardly whelp!" said
he ; and picking up a stout willow from the pile so carefully
selected, and intended for poor Rainbow, he laid it upon his
tormentor with a vigorous play of muscle worthy of a boat-
swain's mate. The first* few strokes, were borne in sullen,
silence-; the next brought out a shower of curses and foul
language, and then came abject prayers for mercy.
"Oh, dear 1 he's killing me,-Sonsie.; he's killing me ! speak
to him; call him off; oh,,dear, oh-oo !"
"There, leave that ! Mr. Vedder !" spoke up Sonsie, whom
the -cene had ' torouht.4
the scene had thoroughly brought back to consciousness,
though her face was pale yet, and her teeth were - set. "Stop
sir . don't be lettin' yqurself down to the level of that young
cub of his mother . Holy St. PatrickrI what divils the best of
these browsers hawrels are, to be sure!"
Whether Jan Vedder heard her voice or no, he stopped, and
threw the writhing boy off, as -he would have done a crawling
reptile, and sent tie. stump of the willow after him.
"There ! said he, panting, "1 reckon you've got about the
best dusting you ever had ii your life; and I advise you to
skeddadle before my arm gets rested, or you'll very likely fall
heir to the balance of the willows.
Bax picked up his cap, jammed it down over his ears, and
set off on a jog trot, cursing and snuffing; when he had crossed
the fence, and got so -far as to feel safe, he turn d and shook
hsfists

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

" You drunken Vedder. I'll serve you out for this, before I
die, as sure as eggs. You wait till I get big as you, old raw-
bones.! then you look out ; .it'll be my turn then."
"There, by-by ! better wash your face, the first pond you
come to; and be very careful .how you beat your sister, or
you'll go from the jail to the gallows with murder on your
soul, some of these days."
" My sister ! that Irish tramp my sister ! You'll find out
who you've been poundin'. My father 'll Just put you through
the law without any mittens. That'sso !"
As Bax stood still in his tracks, cursing and swearing, and
making horrible faces, pulling down his eyes, and sticking out
his tongue ; and persisted in his course of conduct, paying no
heed to Jan'swords, that young gentleman started after hi in
a long, loping run; but before he reached the fence, the horrid
little monster's courage: trickled out at his fingers'-ends, and he
took himself off at his best pace, and Jan came leisurely back
again.
" Has he hurt you much, my dear ?" he asked, taking off his
soft hat and mopping his hot face, as he stood before Sonsie,
and looked kindly down at her and Rainbow.
" No, sir; I was a bit dazed ; but I'm all right now,; I'm
fearin' that he'll die, though " (patting the cat softly); "his futs
is hurted dreadful."
Jan examined the wounded paws, with tender care.
" This wont kill your pet, my girl: he's good for no end of
rats and mice, if he has no injuries beside. I wish I had a bit
of oldalinen, I'd dress his wounds for him."
"Take me hankercher, sir : 'tis just that, and no more," said
Sonsie holding to view a clean tatter, and. drawing up her
mouth corners into a comical smile, through her "eie.
" That's a fact," replied Jan, laughing, " a fai7 specimen of

51

I~         Fp
,I    I           ti
t
I E        IA
!      r         I
1.           Y
I    it           i
;i
,I
r l,

'   '.
,, ! ,
,}{
, ,,
,     I  Z"
l
;'   FF      '
f       a c
t  ;
,R, -
i.
i,
''  ,
,  ,  -
's     i
;       ,
r,
-           ,
};,  t
c          i
,
_                          s
,,
'   i
i ,
.  -
-
,


SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

ventilation, a holy relic." He took it and bound up the mangled
paws, and Rainbow seemed to understand well that he was
helping him ; for he offered no resistance, and licked Sonsie's
hand during, the operation.
" You set great store by your pussy, don't you ?" remarked
Jan, in reply to Sonsie's thanks.
"Indade, but I do then, sir ; he's a broth of a cat hisself ; but
I love him most for the sake of Miss Chris ; she sort o' left him
to me care, and she goin' to school. 'Tis the white angel to me
intirely that the pretty'lady is, from the first night i ever sit
eyes on her holding a loaf.of white bread in her two little hands,
and smilin' into me eyes. Ah, sure, Mr. Vedder, I'd fall down
and adore her, 'just if she bid me. Yes, Rainbow's her cat,
and he knows more nor half the men."
"Miss Chris?" said Jan, ignoring the doubtful ending of
Sonsie's speech. "That should be Christabel Goldsmith ; the
sour widow's fair daughter ; the marvellous musician, scholar,
poet; the; famous horsewoman. She and I rode a gay race once."
"The same ! sure, sir; there can be but one Miss Chris in
the world; any more than there'd shine on us two moons in
the blue night-sky."
"And pray, who are you, my dear," said Jan, in a puzzle.
"Sonsie Eagan is 'the first letters of'me name, at' your ser-
vice, sir; you'll excruge me risin' up, seem' as me lap is full of
Rainbow.:
Assued of the safety of her pet, the mercurial spirits of the
warm-hearted Irish lassie mounted apace ; and her eyes shone,
and danced, and her 'lips smiled upon' the astonished young
hunter, who looked well at her, which he had scarcely done
before. There was nothing attractive in her faded 'old gar-
ments, or stout cowhide brogans; but scanning those lightly he
foui d'somewhat agreeab in her laughing, saucy face'; aised

68

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.                 53
boldly to his, but yet with absolute chaste modesty. She had
grown a head taller in the half year, which had passed since
Ruth Blair found her sitting in the straw, and half-starved, at
the old red school-house, and though her purple-black hair was
cropped, it lay in heavy masses about her head ; -and her deep
blue eyes (real Irish eyes) looked at him mischievously from
beneath her arched black brows; her skin was fine and clear
as it could be and milky white ; and her wholesome cheeks had
the rich red of the damask rose, with lips to match; and her
figure firm, supple, well-rounded, and as straight as an arrow.
"Ah ! you are a wide-awake lassie ; and you can be very
merry, I know. You might be a gay partner fdr a reel; and that
arm of yours would pull a firm oar. I am very lucky to meet
you up here, particularly as you needed assistance ; and if you
will tell me where you~ belong, I'll see you safe home ; for your
enemy, who declines the honor of brotherhood, though he might
be proud to acknowledge the relationship (I'm sure I should
be), may be lurking in wait for you somewhere."
" He's safe off by this time, sir ; and 'twould be small loss if
he niver showed his face again among decent folks. I should
dool to call such a speckled loon my brother. I'm a true
Irish lassie, wid niver a drop of Yankee blood in me lane veins
at all. ' It was the Deacon's spalpeen. of a boy who you trated
to the batin'. He told ye he'd pay ye off for it ; and though
the loon says every thing but his prayers, he's the one for
callin' round and payin' off. If ye've any horse or dog that ye
set by, yell take good care of 'em. -Sure he's the nastyscrawlin'
snake for biting' !
"The Deacon's son!" said Jan, laughing "Well, the worthy
papa, whoever he may be, can't shirk the doctrine of total ,de-
pravity, when he looks in the face of his offspring. I could not
~have called him kin to you, my dear, if I had stopped to study

:' f  ;
,   ;
:   1
f.      r
Ir   ,  i
1     '
i
r   '
t      j
t
r
,   {

f    'F
+I  1
I! I
' i t i l


54             SONSIE GOES ~NUT2ING,
your face; forgive me the blundering insult to your 'clean
Irish blood,' and let me take care of you home."
"Thank you, sir; I don't need any particular care. I'm able
to take my own part, pretty much; but I'm obliged to you, all
the same. I'm thinkin' I'll just go to Miss Ruthie this evenin.'
I'd rather not face the ould dragon. I've a dozen of ridges al-
ready around my shoulders; and 'tisme belief she'd cross them
wid plenty of the, same stripe, along of that dirty blackguard,
and I'd always be having' to keep.him in order, leastways, 'tis as
well to go home no more.
"By the old dragon, you mean your respected mother, I
suppose ?" said Jan, laughing.
" You're wrong there, sir. I hope I'm better bred than to be
callin' me mother names; and if I was to spake at all of her to
a stranger, I'd liken her the pretty flax-flower, or the quiet snow-
drop that grows aneath the hedges. It.is me big mistress, the
Deacon's wife, that I'm speakin' of; and she's all that and more.
I know you quite well, Mr. Vedder; I've opened the door to ye
often and often, when ye used to come courtin' to Miss Belle
those times I lived with Mrs. Williams.
"Oh, the deuce you have!" replied Jan, coloring up.
"Yes, indeed, sir," answered Sonsie, enjoying his confusion;
"and I always took a smell at the bookays ye sent up ; and I
helped Miss Belle to dress for all the drives ye used to be takin
her, when. 'ye come up in the phetton wid them bonnie red
y op
Le Let ime carry pussy for you," interrupted Jan, who seemed
to afnd little pleasure in these reminiscences  "You should have
e o gh to do to carry yourself, after your little scene. I hope
y don' intend to-make love in the sane fierce; fashion."
"I don't know sir I'm sure ; I haen'rtried that yet; I shall,
soon as I. get .a good chance. I must have sweethearts first.

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

I've kept nieself alive to catch Miss Belle's pretty ways: she's
a good one at it."
Jan sat down on the log, and heaved a deep sigh. Sonsie
started back and put her hand before her nose, with a disgusted
grimace.
"What's in the wind now, my Irish beauty !" exclaimed Jan,
looking up and meeting, with surprise, her disdainful face.
"Pah ! you've been drinking, sir," spoke up Sonsie, boldly
and fearlessly.
Jan curiously surveyed her modest eyes, which looked full in
to his ; her screwed-up lips, ripe and provoking, and her white
neck, and her round, fresh-colored arm, and the little firm, well-
shapen hand, she held up so meaningly; and pretty soon he
answered, -
" Well, and what if I haver"
"I wouldn't do it, sir, if I were Mr. Vedder -- a born gentle-
man ! A drunkard is a nasty beast, not fit to touch orlook
at. I'd never in the world be it."
" Let housewives make a skillet of my brain," said Jan mu-
singly, "if this is not a queer way to accost a gentleman ; but
she's more than half right, I'm afraid.. Still, she'swrong too ;
for I'm no drunkard, at least, not yet."
"Your face is. awful red, sir."
"My face 1" exclaimed Jan, passing his hand up and dow
his cheek, and looking sideways at Sonsie. "That is the ,Sun
and wind, my girl."
She shook her head and pursed up incredulous lips.
" Tis whisky; and, by the same token, yer head, «hich shuld
be the servant of your will, isshaking, and yer ees are heair."
"Everybody can't have eyes as bright asyoaurs, Sonsie, which,
upon my honor, are commonlyy fne and agreb1eevenihen
they shoot such. strange glances-at 4. poor. fellw  But czdia

I 1
ii~
II-

56


SQASiE GOES NUTTING.
now, I'll tell you something. You're'so ready at speaking your
mind and giving advice, you may give me a little more. What
would you do, if you had a trouble you couldn't get rid of?
I'ye tried hunting, and i've tried fishing ; but, 'tis no go."
" What is your trouble, that ye take the liquor to be rid of,
sir, if you wouldn't nnd naming it to me?" questioned Sonsie,
with the true Irish mingling of wild freedom and sweet tender-
ness in her clear tones, and her bold, modest air. "And you
such a brave well-fashioned gentleman !
"I'm in love, child"  Jan looked into his soft hat, and care-
uly spelled out the  'Nobby" in the blue silt crown-lining.
"1ead over ears :inlove; and I think  indeed I'm sure -the
gay ladly doesn't care a rush for me."
" You may take an oath of it on the old Gatlad-of-Howth ;
and that's the four gospels they found in the isle of Ireland's
ey; th's so. sacred, that nobody'll riverr take a swear on it,
for fear of tellin' a lie unbeknown. Yes, sir, me mother is often
tellin' us them tales ; but if it is true, she's not worth the fretting
fp r a ?lI'd just shove her out of my heart, and I'd niver go
spoiling me good looks wid. the auld whisky, nor put me futs
inte, the gutter, nor me heading the ditch, for :the bravest lassie
that river stepped on brae."
"Sonsie!" said Jan, listening admiringly to the swift flow
therticdsp words, enriched with their racy brogue, -" Sonsie,
h ven't you madea mistake about your birthplace: are you, not
Scotch, instead of.Irish?"
"No, sir; I'm Irish, sir, clearthrough and through. - We're
frontUlster county.. Me father was a wearer, to home, and
n mother a brave little spinners though she was an O'Rourke
of r  efne; and 'tis good blood, the O Rourkes.
ff Ii1 that explains. Ossian and Burns are oddly mingled in
y   praiseolgogy; put together, and projected with a grace and

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

57

fervor which is decidedly your own. But Sonsie, my good child,
you must not say"' flit.' F-o-o-t spells foot, you perceive."
"Thanks, friendly sir," she replied gravely ; " so it does; I'll
remember. I'm always grateful for good advice."
" So am I," replied Jan, smiling. " And soyou think I atn a
drunkard, Sonsie, do you ?"
" People say it of you, Mr.:Vedder. They say, Poor lad, he' s
just rnin' his self and braking the sweet-heart of his-purty
little lady mother, and him the last son and prop of the family."
Jan sat drumming on his hat, and gazing down the hill in si-
lence, and Sonsie had too much tact or modesty to interrupt the
current of his meditations.
" By Jove ! this blueeyed emerald, whose mother is like the
flax-flower, is a- free-spoken preacher," he thought; "andsvery
likely she's more than half right.. ?eter hinted something: the
other day: he has been thinking or hearing in the same vein.
My mother never looked a sideways look at me in her life:; but
neither would she, if I broke. her heart, I suppose. They call
me, 'poor Vedder,' do they? I'd like to'catch anybody with the
word on his lips. I'd knock it down his throat. I usedtosee
the boys take after old Pettibone. i'ye helped him out. of the
mud, and got him home manysatime. They used to call him
'poor Pet;' and his wife went to the grog-shop and begged. the
fellow on her poorfold knees not to gy.e her husband lqupr,
because if he had one taste he'd neverstoptill he got soaked.
And the sneaking dog, laughed in her face. I was there and
saw it. I'd just got y first horse then; and I went like a eced
fool, and offered t give it to the grog-seller ifhe'd promise never
to let Pet drink at his bar;" andI begged it, withtears ,in iy
silly eyes. \And what a hug I got from my mother, when4-she
heard of it ! Lord! Well, am . breaking my  nothei's heart?
Nonsense=! She is merry and gay; and as for me,' all right

"        1
,
' t
Y
'  Ii  1 1r  i
. r,
t,
,1  , 1
F

Jr
' i 1 1
l I,
'     1,'
#,,
'i   j+i
i '  I r'

I~


4

58

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

I'm a gentleman. I know how far to go; I suppose Ican stop
when I like. I am no slave to my appetites; no nor to other
people's whims either, if it comes to that. I shall do. as I
please."
He reached his hand absently behind him, and took out from
his pocket a leathern flask.
"What are you going to do, Mr. Vedder ?" exclaimed Son-
sie, drawing away in sorrowful surprise.
"Just;treat resolution, my good child !"  He held it up be-
fore her and shook it, and listened to the "chicker " of the fra-
grant-liquor. "Pure Irish whisky," said he ; and he pulled off
the cup and half filled it. " Here's long life to yqp, and I, and
pussy, Sonsie ; and confusion to our enemies !
He drank it oft; replaced the cup, and met the girl's re-
proachful, indignant, disappointed glance, with a look half-
foolish, half-bravado.  -
"I hope Miss Belle will jilt ye, Mr. Vedder ; you deserve it !
She's a very proud young lady, and should think too highly of
herself'to marry wid a whisky-jug! and that's what ye ar', then,
just entirely '"
' Come, come. be, careful what you say ; you might make
me angry. 'Tis a lonesome place up here, Sonsie; and as to
that, Ithink no small beer of myself; and if Miss Brandon wont
have me,: there are plenty of handsome girls, good waltzers,
tqueens of society," who will pucker their mouths to "prunes
and prism," or widen then to squash arid alloes, to get such a
fellow as I am for a husband  Oh, yes, Sonsie ! I don't need
go begging ; not if I drank,till I fell under the table every day
after dinner. I've bags and bags of money, you see; and
women love money."
"No. true-lady would:marry a pig for his, sty, nor take you
for your money, sir. Not wid tie taint of that stuff tn your

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.                  59
lips, and the baleful fire of it in yer eyes all red and blood-
shot."
"You think so ?" asked Jan, half'insolently, half in bitterness.
"You betray lamentable ignorance of polite society, child, and
of your dear, artless sex. You should see the piles of notes in
my waste basket, and the sweet looks I get from the young
beauties, and the caresses from the mammas ; and you should
taste the jolly old brandy and the choice wines the papas bring
out in my honor. / But I don't care that for them all!1 I'm
tired of the whole string ! They all talk just alike, and-go into
ecstacies over the same things. Belle Brandon is a brick IShe
can drive four-in-hand, and she plays a capital game of euchre.
She's original, and spirited, and clever, and afraid of nothing !
But, as you say, she does- not care a pin-for me ; and Jive
thought my last thought about her. By Jove, Sonsie1 ;ye a
fancy for you. I'll pass by the ladies and. I'll make love'to
you. You've got a bright eye, full of mischief, and a thrilling,
sweet voice ;, y can sing, I'll engage. I like. your racy
tongue, whidh tells your fresh thoughts in such a charming, rich
brogue. I'll buy you a Steinway, and you shall have lessons.
I'll give you horses, and dresses, and jewels ;- every- thing you
ask me for. And one gay morning you will wake up from your
rosy slumber and find yourself a fine lady, as fine as the finest
of them."
He tried to put his armaround her waist, and bro l this
mouth close to her's as if he would kiss her ; but she  ther
eyes fixed on his.face, and. flashed a look at, him, which fully
illustrated her power to take her own part; and caused him to
draw back, looking foolish.
"You are qite,.right,sir, to insult me," said she, proudly,
" since I so far forgot me, statio; as ta trytordoyou god
Sonsie Eagais no Aft wjfQ. for a gentleman ; but Sopsie pge

rf !       :
'  '
}}
' i
I''' , f ,
'li

! I
,  F.
.  '     't
!I
,    i      r
I      +
t
i
ii   f ,,
,    i ,r
i
i i   ff
11 ,
'i   t
t+
,
,1
,
i {
II      t  .
,I   j
J ,
'i     ?
i
i     I
i
;    1
, 1     1
.  , ,   i  i ,
,; ;!   '
t'i
, ' ~i  ,
' :  !
C, ,; ,
,' '' ;;,
I  I
,'  !  j ;
,;   ' ,
'1;, ,
I
,       i fs,
1   I  ;
';    ! 1
.   Jflll
',;.
i   'i   t  t  r-
,I I ;; i
(  i
!     ;
'' :; i, ,
;; . 4 r  i
,, +;,,i,
I  ij,  ! ,i }t
li' !, f  l li ,
,I I '   n4 "+


0          SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.           61

is far to good to mate wid a drunkard ! And, by the same
token, yer not the pathern of a husband for a clean-skinned,
right-minded Irish lassie. Faugh ! what a whiff of raw whisky !
Yer very breath is burning up wid it ! I'm sick of yes,.entirely!"
She drew herself away with her head up, showing her white
throat, and began pick up Rainbow into her apron, getting
ready to go.
"I thank ye kindly, Mr. Vedder, for yer goodness to me
agd me poor cat, and I wish, wid all me soul, that ye was a
better fellow."
Jan laughed, and his eyes deepened; he, involuntarily
stigh,1tened his broad shoulders, interested and aroused.
"Pen't leavene,;Sonsie. I've made an ass of myself, that's
plain;but :don't, bear malice. I didn't kiss you, you know.
Youcan afford to forgive me. Come, shake hands, and let's
pp. friends.. I shall not forget my lesson. You need not be
afraid of me."_
And is itsfear that ye'd be spakin' to me about?" retorted
Sonsie, scornfully.
J   looked smilingly at her.
"I've madeanother misstep I-see; pray don't.extinguish a
-poor,,innocent fellow. You said you wanted a sweetheart."
"Nosir ! Mr. Vedder,. I said not that at all Of course, I
shall have one some day ; but the boy that'll touch one -drop
of that nasty stuff is not the sweetheart for me - And, oh ,Mr.
Vedd  ! "(Sonsie's voice trembled with her earnest feeling), "I
wish ye could promise. year soul niver, niver tor touch it no
Igore " ,.
Jan sprang up.
' yve.! P'1l do it, Sousie ! I've taken my last drink, so
he4pgnp 3[eatven ! l, 4ropped the flask into the middle, of
girmg sggtump; from-whi-h soon a sharp crash ws heard,

and a blue flame mounted in spiral tints, like Asmodeus set
free from his bottle. " Now am I forgiven, Sonsie?"
"'Yes, sir!"  Sonsie thrust out both her hands, which Jan
took in his : her humid eyes glistened, and her face kindled with
enthusiastic joy. " May the good God give ye strength to be
rueto yer vow!"
Jansmiled back her enthusiasm one instant, and then he
sack doin on the log where she was still sitting ; and the hab-
itual listless, indifferent look crept back into his face, and the
fire faded from his eyes.
"But what am I to do,? What is my'stupidlife good for?"
" Augh ! for..shame, sir, to talk like that-! If you had seen
the misery I've put me two sorrowful eyes onto, and felt jthe
sore gWant pinching yer very life out wid the hunger-pang, and
yer sisters and brothers shivering wid :the cold, ye couldn't
forget how it feels, anid fold-yer hands, and roll up yer eyes, and
say, 'What'll I do wid rme laziness?' Do! .why go -to work;
sure ! - Put yer life into stopping the sufferin' and the Woe that's
cryin' out everywheres for such as you.to help 'em !"
"Very well, Sonsie," replied Jan, to whom the signs of Son-
sie's affluent nature, and. her fervid,, impassioned ways were
agreeable; "very well ! Tell me where to begin; I'm ready to
learn of you. A work that'll be interesting, absorbing. I've
had enough of the petticoats; they are a weariness to the flesh."
"How old are"you, Mr  Vedder ?-" asked Sonsie abruptly.
"Few and evil are the days- of. the years ofthy-servant,
barely twenty and one 1"-'answered Jan, with, a half-amused,
half-blas6 look into her ,earnest eyes.
"And how much nioneyhave ya to show for all that same?"
The young fellow:looked curiously.at ha,and wondered
what train of thought she was following, and threw out his re-
ply as a lure.
6

i ,,
i',
}
i
'
i
t
i
.i r
;
ti
;'  i  I
'
t,
,
'   J
i
, '   f ' ,
i   F
I  {,
1
'      ,  -
13
;
i  '  '
~
+,',. ,
;:  ;. ,
E
.
is
!  I
,i  1 t  .
t~
i)  (
k    i i
'  ,;
'
ii 1;; .
_'}
I
E,
i
;,1..
'
i
i
i _
t   ,j ' '
,
1
I,   r
"i
1j'  ! ',
t     '
i
}i
i
{
,
di ,
,11t
,    i;t ,
, ,
' ; I  !

,4


62          SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

SONSIE GOES NUTTING.

"nI'n sure I cannot tell you. Cousin Vedder keeps my
books. I suppose there might be half a million, or maybe a
million. Not enough to buy an honest girl, as you have just
S taught me."
"Half a million 1" repeated Sonsie, unheeding Jan's sneer.'
"Tens, hundreds, millions ! What a thing to be a man, and
own money like -that ! And there sits the lazy Dutciman, wid
his chin in his fingers, and says he's nothing in his life worth
the havin' ! Holy saints-be praised for me, bein, but the slip
of a wild Irish lassie, wid the heart and soul inside me to feel
for my fellow-sufferers, and a pair of strong arms and willin'
hands to work for em ! Whisper now, Mr. Vedder; don't be
talkin'. I'll give. ye the sound of someswords that'll take the
mockin' smile off yer lip's, and bring the tears to yer eyes;- if
ye've the love of yer kind hided up in that gret body of yours;
and 'tis thrue for you, yer should have, by the look of ye; so
honest and merry. They all say ye's a good chap, as is no-
body's enemy but his own."
Jan was not over pleased with this estimate of him so care-
lessly given, and was-about to throw back a jeering speech in
payment, when Sonsie placed her hand on his arm.
"EListen, sir," said she, and began reciting,
"Her garments were thin, and ragged, and scanty."
Jan remained quiet, looking at her- in a lofty, half-amused
way; studying the expression of her face.; thinking what an odd
bright, fearless. creature she was ; running hist eyes over her
crisp curls and crimson cheeks, and following the play of her
red hps, and the glistening of her little white teeth, in the poetr
which -she rendergd with impassioned ?ane  and rich Irish
acce t. - Whenshe put .herhand onthis arr, helooked at.its
round, supple fingers, and had half a mind to place his pwn

above them; but somehow he couldn't quite do it ; though she
was a servant in shabby clothing, and he a gentleman in fine
raiment. She had hot gone many lines, when he began to at-
tend, and soon became absorbed ; and when she came to the
part, -
"Yes, ask dear christ to comfort them, and fold them in his Told,"
he found it convenient to drop his eyes into his.soft hat, and
sat quite motionless till she had finished, and a moment after.
Then he stole a look at the fervid speaker, whose hands were
clasped, and down whose hot, crimson cheeks great tears were
dropping ; and Mr.~Jan twisted his head over his shoulder, and
pretended to be busy with brushing the moss and tree-soil from
his hinting coat ; but his voice trembled through his assumed
carelessness when he spoke.
"You have got a fortune in your voice, Sonsie. What a
Fanchon- you'd make ! You ought to study for the stage!
Pray, where did you pick up that moving little poem? 2-touch--
ing, positively!"
"I had itfrom my white angel,who will fold her wings close
to the Holy Mother in the Palace of the Great King."  Then,
with one of the -sudden transitions of which the volatile Mile-
sians are so capable, she added, smiling ,queerly,. and showing
her white teeth, as she threw-an odd merry look at her neigh-
bor, "And there'll be niver the sign of a lazy Dutchmanabout
the plate, at-allat-all.
Then she wiped her eyes onthe- corner of her apron. "Why
don't you be a cooperativ, Mr. - Vedder-; or have a home for
the friendless and the orphans?°- There's Teddy and the baby '11
start the business for ye; and a likely pair they are  And Pil
lend ye me mother too, to make a= matron of, if ye'd be:hank-
ing me ; -and sure, 'tis just meself could be of use too- I've been

I t


64'   -     SONSIE GOES NUT71iSEG.

' learning pinchin' and savin' wid the ould dragon for something
I hope."
" What's a cooperative, Sonsie ?" asked Jan, not at all im-
pressed by the idea. " I don't care a pin about the Gonecussets
or their operatives: you must fix on something more taking than
that, if you wish to enlist my-sympathies. I say, Sonsie, you are
a good child; smart, bright, quick-witted, and nice-looking."
He looked fixedly at her. "I'll do something for you, if you wil
let -me. Now tell me, what do you:desire most in all the world ?"
"Idication," replied Sonsie, concisely.
"Ohs very good,.my dear; you, possess the soul of wit, in
your communications, which are of the "yea, yea" order, and,
idication, you shall, have- all you can. take in. I'll put you in
school to-morrow, and you shall stay as long as you like. The
nore you learn, the better I shall be suited."
"Tst-tst-! tst !"  Sousie made the peculiar call with which
the old Irish wives are wont to entice their pigs. "Indade an'ye
will, sir? and what for will ye do that same? " She fastened her
blue eyes upon his half-averted face in a penetrating gaze.
y   you aggravating, suspicous young vixen," answered
J4a(stooping down topick up a couple of pebbles which he
waskicking about under his boot,and which, when he had got
them in his palm, had no beauty to render them desirable), "for
.the luxury of doing good, of course : haven't you been 'preach-
ing it up to me? Y ou will. do as a specimen to practise upon
as well as another, I suppose; and I am quite fired with im-
patience to begin. I feel a. glow of all sort s of emotions kind-
ling in my soul; I'm reformed! I'm a hero. There's th bottle-
inip consigned to his native element to witness for me. It'
seems to me possible, that, with careful culture of thegerm of
go    which is springing in ny heart, I nay even rise to a
pitch of virtue worth the acceptance of the dashing young

emerald who is tilting up her precious nose, in such amiable
scorn."
Before Jan had finished the speech, curiously compounded,
from his mannish dislike .to be brought to book,. squirming un-
der Sonsie' s contempt for his idle, purposeless life, his adniira-
tion of her fresh face, and an underthought, which caused him
to drop his eyes beneath her clear-seeing gaze, which was read-
ing him like an open book, --he was sorry he had spoken at
all.
"Thank you, Mr. Jan Vedder.. No," said Sonsie, after sitting
silent long enough to make the pause very unpleasant to.kthe
young fellow, "I'll go to Mistress Blair, and be "her servant ;
I'll wash her dishes, and scrub her floors, and learn all she' will
be heavenly kind enough to teach me. If you had made me the
good offer, as a true man that has money to lend, might have
made it to a poor girl, 'I'd have-taken up wid it, and blessed
ye on me knees. I know quite well, sir, what it is. I've to do;
I don't need you nor any persow'else tg  tell' me what I am. I've
been edicated some ways all I could bear. I've seen the dirty
places in the world, and I've heard vile talk before this day; but
I've never sQiled me soul amongst 'it all. When there. ws t
encouragement to keep me on the right track, nobody   ;
but I think the Holy Mother herself watches over.
lone girls, and I shall beg, her to-night,.before I sleep, and every
night and. morning , to let me. take the good care of meseif
always; in particular when  there's the double faced gentlemen
in me path, whose wicked eyes say one thing, and their cunin',
deceptive lips another, till-she sends me angel-with ,he vewite
wings for me-to :ly on, when she beckons me across the dark
river."
-Sher gathered up. Rainbow in her skirt {and walked swiftly
away, without a parting glance, and Mr. Jan :sat sing and
Q6i

SONSIE GOES NUTTZN .  _      . 5

T A
' t'
iii ,!
i
.  3


OLD FRIENDS. WITH NEW FACES.

motionless on the mossy tree-trunk long after the last flutter of
her faded old garments had disappeared from his sight.
As the setting sun ceased to temper the chilly, wind, he rose
and ..swung his game-bag over his shoulder, and whistled his
dog, and took slowly the way down across the meadows, and
thence to the-highway; turning over, as he went, the afternoon's
events; recalling Sonsie Eagan's bold words, and free, indepen-
dent gestures; andrevolving the new ideas.and odd plans which
were dimly floating through his working brain. And the well.
made, good-tempered, good-looking, unselfish young. fellow,
who, as2Sonsie told .him, had never been anybody's enemy but
his own, had ample time and opportunity before him to learn
 that there is not an error, which does not sheathe its retribu-
n                                       e
tion."   -S
CHAPTER V.
OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.
ND this is uncle Alec's Mexican abiding-place;' and
there is the glorious old fellow, seated on the wide
veranda, in the{ airiest of ,ostumes; nothing super-
fous about him; no coat, nor vest, over his plaid linen shirt,
which is of the finest, and fresh from the laundry of old Chapeta.
His iron-gray hair is still moist and curly from his morning bath,
and his ruddy cheeks shine with the polishing they got under the
cool shower; hislong:silky beard flows down over the delicate
Frills he has always wotn upon his;bosomsii ce his early man-
hood. His father wore the like before him, and also his grand-
father, and 'his father, the Scottish gentleman whoed up at
Craigenfels, and was buried beneath a tablet on: the- hillside

OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.

close behind the little gothic church; and among the tale of
his virtues was the statement that he was "a good and loyal
subject to King George."
No cramping necktie confines uncle Alec's throat, but' his
roomy collar turns away from his pillar of a neck, and the dia-
mond-stud which fastens it glistens rarely. Its-fellows hold his
snowy wristbands; and the handkerchief across the knees of his
linen pants is fine and white; 4is silk braces are 'broidered with
marvellous needle-work, and buckled with golden buckles; and
slippers of scarlet velvet, rich with silken flowers, incase his
feet ; and altogether the genial old fellow looks a very cool,
comfortable specimen of a Mexican planter taking his ease-
at peace with himself and the whole world.
One shapely white hand caresses the head of a young tiger-
cat, who crouches at his side, and whose yellow eyes, blink
sleepily tinder the pleasant touch, though he=never forgets that
one of his great'powerful paws lies across the wide brim of his
master's palmetto, of which he considers himself in charge,
Spotty has something of his own to watch, too; for:awDiogenes
Hermit crab (which he encountered in his morning ramble,
climbing a tree,with a great turbo-shell on his back, as uucon
cerned as though it had been a.feather-weight}lies 'on the rael
walk. HunterSpottybrought him home despite his horrible
odor and his 'noisy croaking. The great claw which 'Hermit
keeps over the entrance-Hfhit shell, like a dor, doesn't cheat
cunning Spotty: he sees it lift a trifle occasionaly, and sees
also the projectingfoo stalk in which our crab wearsfhis-sharp
eyes like a black bead; and then he growls, forhe knows that
his prize meditates getting safe off-presently.
A gentle-eyed tapir also is an object of Spotty's surveillance,
who comes smelling along, with her head down feeling abut
for something juicy, with that abbreviated bit-of a pr boscf-

a
i
t
Qw.
fill
,


S  OLD FRZJNDS WITH. NEW FACES.

hers, and wagging her end of a tail 4nd snuffling. As she is
about four feet high, you feel at a loss whether to consider
her a very large hog or a very small elephant, and finally settle
down to the conviction that she is a connecting link between
the two. She is. a very loving.mother to that pretty young One
of hers, so beautifully marked with yellowish tan-colored stripes,
and diamonds upon its brown-black hide ; and her kind master,
with whom she is accustomed to take all sorts of liberties,--
sticking her trunk into his pocket and abstracting the pistachis
nuts;passing it over his haids and face, conversing occasionally
in-'her curious shrill whistle, -is very fond her.
Spotty has; often tried his teeth upon Tapir's thick skin, and
once he fastened himself on to her back, intending to make a
finish of her; but she erected; her stiff mane, and giving voice
at intervals, like an engine, she set off, carrying her nose close
to theaground, through the thick brush, hoping to sweep away her
unwelcome rider. -Not succeeding, she made for the lake, and
plunged in.: She, Madame Tapir, is mistress. of two elements.
Hunter Spotty has breathing apparatus for but one, and he is
glad to leave-go, and swim 'for his dear life. Twenty feet deep
of cold water is too deep for him; but though he looked smooth
and glossy after his enforced. bath, he does not like -Madame,
nor her pretty young one .either, and he shows his teeth, and
snarls gat.them both.                          A'
An armadillo (Bolita, little ball) lies in the, corner of the
wide averanda,- with its head and: feet drawn into its arrgor, as
the easiest mode of getting rid of two troublesome scarlet and
green parrots, who, while scolding and nipping each other, are
making common cause against the mailed ball on which they
stand,. knocking and rapping the polished plates, with as -much
effect as,.though they had been solid steel. And all he deni-
;en.s ohe veranda}are objects of interest to- ,a grave, sad-faced

08

OLD FIENDS 'WIT! NEW FACES. -            69
marinonda, who, seated on a perch out of reach, with its prem
hensile tail, limb-like, turned around'a rod above itshead, is,
watching their motions with the sober, speculative curiosity,
which is peculiar to those gentle little creatures, so affectionate
and teachable, and so airily fantastic in their gambols with their
human associates.
Uncle Alec glances from time to time at a friend who-occu.
pies a bamboo-chair, on his right, who sits, chin in hand, and
eyes looking straight over the cerros into the tree-tops, tossed
by a breeze which has- a few light clouds under convoy, and
hurries them helter-skelter across the heavens; but which comes
not near to the humanity below, sighing and panting for a
breath of it.' This reticentfriend, who says nothing about him'
self or his family, is a care and a puzzle to kind Uncle Alec,
who would gladly make all the world happy, and who is acus,
toned to lavish money and kindness with handful heartiness;
but he cannot fathomthis melancholy, or understand this -silent
grief, to which no willing voice is ever given He is a great
bronzed giant of a fellow, this friend; with crisp carl, massive
head, anda' determined; powerful face;"strong to do; and also-to
endure; but whose repose and strength is half negatived by sor
rowful eyes, which gaze out with sad wistfulness and unrea,and
whose firm red lips, shadowed -bytheir silky mustache, a'e too
closely pressed together to show the strong white teethhis nietry
smiles used to reveal. His' deep thest heaves occasionally
with unconscinus sighs, and his fingers beat out the-fragmetit. of
a melody which is always ringing in his ears
"The cricket sings under the hearth
Thebird is isleep on the tree."
There isn't much' to othe wordd, and the 'air ise very~ simple;
but they bring up a picture before tlie giant,efverrsycheeked

.1
'13
+    f 'i


10      OLDaZ  FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.

OLD FRIENDS WITI! NEW FACES. *    7

young mother and her baby, sitting before a cheerful wood-fire
in the gloaming ; sitting there and waiting, and his fingers beat
outthe tune upon the braided arm of his bamboo-chair, while
his thoughts are busy. among his memories.
He isa tremendous worker, is the giant,-tireless, unflinching,
unsparing of his muscle; nearest to content when his plastic
fingers are busy among levers and wheels, and the delicate
machines which he delights so curiously to fashion. Many
child's toys are cunningly wrought by this silent man, and he
hoards them with careful, almost tender devotion, and goes often
to repolish and retouch them, and is fond of carving a ,name
upon them,-- "Pigeon." I;t is always the same, but is diversely
wrought,-in Old English, in German Text, and delicately em-
blazoned with colored capitals. He read in a stray newspaper
,of a man who made an engine from,:a silver half-dollar, and he
got to work directly ; -and it afforded him many quiet hours of
engrossing toil; complete and delicate in every part, from the tiny
boier, which held about eight drops of water, to the two minute
guages; and when he had kept it running five minutes on its
supply, he put itsafely aside under the same mark he gave his
toys,-"Pigeon." Once he began.a "Ruth," upon a work-box
of campeachy wood, but before it was finished,;he rushed out
tothe mines and set his- strengthtodig with the Peandres,
til dead night; and whenthe returned, he covered the "R" and
the box out of his pained sight and hid it away.
He has.not been many months at San  histabel; but the
miners both fear and love him; they obey his lightest word.
Sagacious, practical Uncle Alec has an active coadjutor in
all his schemes, which tle g ai"t grasps i full extent.and minute
detail, elaborating and working them out successfully
= Now that we meet Uncle Alec in his Mexican home, it is
easier-to omprehen dthe charm which keeps lim an exile from

his native land. EveitrCraigenfels can scarcely compare with San
Christabel for beauty. The Quinta is queen of a wide ravine,
almost a valley, backed by abrupt and lofty mottntains which
were seared and torn with deep lbarrancas abouiding with fear-
ful precipices, terrible chasms, which nature kindly veiled tnder
a drapery of trailing vines and ever-greenery, and which are
the favorite home of beautiful dun-colored squirrels, hares, and
divers singing-birds, as well as tiger-cats and monkeys. Stretch-
ing away, in view of the broad veranda, rise the cerros, which
are cut into a series of terraces, each with-a gravelled walk lead-
ing high and higher to the wooded top of the last acclivity, from
which the view is simply entrancing, far beyond civilization
past cocoa-nut groves and palmclusters, and the'sidewise sweep
of the glittering river.
The red gravel drive-way-kept scrupulously- free from the
the encroaching Bermuda grass -winds through the ground,
skirts the piazza, and defines a gorgeous garden full of tropical
beauties, and encircles also the sierraa de /os duendes, as Uncle
Alec is fond of calling the great enclosure where nature has been
scarcely assisted in this terra calicientie in arranging her chanr
ing groups of shining-leaved trees and the piettyishirbs
which droop their pendent blossoms - above the ring and
subdued Arroyato, which lingers a little, to sing its song beneath
them, on its merry journey of tireless play to the sounding sea.
Within the light cane-fence of theiower garden bloom the fne
ladies of the Mimosa tribe;,'side .by side with the odorous aca,
cias, though they shrink-coyly(torn human touch, arnd are=een-
exclusive toward their rougher relation , who dwell in the
"larger liberty' of the sierra deflosrduendes; and shy abserers
are they of the fairy revels. "The breath of theybreeze and the
caresses of thebutterfyare the only thingsthey love." The scar.
let and rosy cactiiare onr friendlytomsxwith"the brillianpas.

1

J
,;  ,
,t t
,,
;.

'I

,   j,   of
I '
I    !
,{            "f,
,   ;i   _
,       ,(
,  ',i       4!
,(,,1        !
F!  !,, {I
if     ,{,   ,
i  , l s  '
;,'  ,
i1 ~1 ; c


OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.

OLD FRAIkDS WITif NEW FACES.

sion.flowers, whose fervid hues outrival the rainbow; the con.
vulvuli, more lovely here than elsewhere; the wondrous lilies
of golden yellow and burning crimson; the delicate tiger-flow.
ers, creatures of a day; the scarlet Turk's caps, the pale azure
ageratums, and the roses --'ahl such roses. Persia in all her
glory never dreamed- of the like. "Unhappy the man who has
never had his eyes fill with tears at the sight of a particular
flower. Such an one -can have been neither a- child nor a
youth. He can have had neither mother, sister, nor affianced
bride. He never loved."
"Our children know each wild-wood smell, .
The ayberry and the fern ;
The man who does not know them well .
Is all too old to learn."
Uncle Alec plucked the jasamines white as the lily, scarlet as
the pomegranate, and golden as'the shining butter-cup, and fas-
tened them with the homelyic-weed he had coaxed to -thrive
ina sheltered dell;"andathouglElinor Walsingham Was four and
forty now, he could bury.his face among his favorites, and see
a -vsron of sparkling eyes and  bright-hued cheeks. Nay, he
could hear her very voice  He1 bought a cluster of "capu-
eines' to George the next morning after he reached San Chris-
tebel. ".The godVishneu," said he, nulidr'g, "sought a wife, and
he fo nd herin thescalyxof aLose ; and he pondered much over
the paleness and passing which swept the giants face. ,But
he did not know that the oddr of Ruth's tea-roses were wafted
to himthrough the open.window while he sat and wrote his
farewell letter toher,  nor that he had snatched a bunch of buds
and kept theasacredin{ the mo chir-case she gave him for his
birthday. Flapping their gauzy wings upon the. edges of the
flower.ctps, are myriads of soft-green dodos yscarlets admirals,
ad tottolseahellerbutterflies ;the pretty spotted insects which

I

72

i

children call Lady Birds, "tetites tees du bon.Dieu," are hiding
in the hearts of the roses; the turquoise-winged, golden-billed
bluebird trills a measure from an acacia-branch, and the pepper-
trees are singing with the shrill drums of, the cicadv; and pur-
ple and green humming-birds sip the cactus sweets and flit and
tremble above the jasmines; and scarlet censoneles rest among
the broad-leaved trees ; and there is a family of arsapans (those
cunningest of all squirrels), noisily at home in the branches, not
a whit disturbed by the chattering of the coffee-colored children
who are lazily stretched in the swinging hammocks below them,
like bronze images, and upon whom they throw blossoms and'
fruits at their sweet will.
In the distant corales, the dun cattle are browsing,.and the
workers in the peach-orchards stand out clear-cut in the transit
parent air, the purity, and softness of which gives an extended
vision ivhich would sound fabulous in the recital of a storyteller.
Besides the vivid verdure and gorgeous flower-colors i his
Mexican home, Uncle Alec has all sorts of luscious fruitage to
comfort liin and his breakfast-table is a rare show of sweet-
smelling good things. Craigenfels is away in the background,
though pears and apples and their confreres abound in its. arch-
ards, and, grapes, fgs, andnectarinesturn juicy and rich within
its glass shelters. Uncle Alec says Mexico is a rare old coun-
try, and it o ght to be. annexed.    "
San Christabel itself is an intermiabsle, many-roomed dw1-
ling, with windows like doors, and lofty ceilings.; curousporcies
and vast corridors and galleries, whose mission seems to be to
stretch over all the ground possible. It is  frmishedwith every
conceiveable. comfort.--every imaginable hot-weather 1upury.
The sane and bamboos.chairsinvite to quiet and cool repose, and
the divans suggest pleasant musings;, and thetroad verandas
remind, of -rgrant cigars, dreamy sittings, anl spun out talks

73

ii
a
I
1  t '1iS
1  (  j
.  Vi     I  I
1     r  f,    ±   i
,l   E i       I
I' I
t!
,f{
.. r
'!I
1.c (Ir _,l
f!
I

.
t,
r ,
'
t }
i
i
i ' _
R
+r


OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.

of home.:'and 'home. loves. They are supported by shining
pillars ofsmooth sabriro, stripped of their bark.  The walls of
the dwelling, within and without, are of clean planed boards,
which would be a fortune at home, so rich and rare are they;
no paint, 'no varnish anywhere, but absolute white cleanliness.
A Spanish maccaw has retired to the azotea for practice of a new
lesson, which' does not sound. pious; and he mixes it up with
ecstatic laughter and self-adulation, besides barking and yelping
enough for a whole litter of' puppies.
Among the distant cerros, but clearly discernible from Uncle
Alec's arm-chair (thanks to the pure atmosphere), are the guintas
of his few chosen friends, who come and go on their high-step-
ping l'gcadors, as the mood takes them, even as " the wind
bloweth where it listeth."
It is seven o'clock. Uncle Alec has been in the saddle three
hours or more, riding over his cafetele; and he has just told his
friend (who came from the reality where Jason the overseer is
"pitting through" a new gallery, most exultingly) that he has
fifteen trees in full berry, which must yield him twenty pounds
each.
He is quite ready for thetasillo de chocolate, which the page
brings himi and he takes it with a droll gibe at: the bronze
cupid; and a stolen look at the' silent friend,'who' has not
changed his position, nor even ioVed- a muscle in all the
mingled motion and jumbled sounds about him' Uncle Alec
shakes his head and sighs ; he has done-it often before.
"  nav saca otro davo."  "One nail drives=out:another."
The Igenial gentleman has lived long enough aniong the' Span.
iards to be fond of susing'their proverbs. "Come I he- shall
talep. Out; thou dumb spirit !  look George, is not yonr little
n'4iden called Zitella a picturesque young creature.?"
ejiintsto a girl who is watering the-roses  Sheearsthe

OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.              75
ordinary servant-dress of white, which is simply purely clean ;
her petticoat embroidered with a band of -scarlet fern-leaves at
bottom, and above it a shgrt chemise, sleeveless, leaving her
neck and arms bare. Her hair is put off her face and fastened
in a broad thick plait at the back, which reaches far below, her
knee, and finished with silver bells. A great comb of filagree.
work crowns her head, from which she has removed the reboza,
or scarf, which it keeps in place when she goes abroad. Then
Zitella throws one end of her national head-gear over her shoul-
der, and the scarlet fringe falls gracefully to her waist ; her slender
legs are bare ; so are her feet ; and her bronze ankles are round
and firm enough for a model, and every toe is perfect. She is a
favorite servant and she wears armlets of virgin silver, and a neck-
lace of great Mexican pearls. Uncle Alec-bought them of a
lepero, whom he encountered one evening rather unexpect-
edly, stretched at full length under the aloe hedge. He said he
was waiting to shoot some of the Spanish vultures whidi were
roosting in long lines on the trees, black, grave, and silent.,He
pointed them out with his brown finger half a mile away, and
then he produced the pearls from his bosom. No sooner did
he receive his money (a couple of 'Spanish dollars), than he set
off to join his friends; and in another hour the "dusky palque "
was master of them all.
Zitella is a pious girl, and tells faithfully the beads of the
shining rosary which hangs fromher girdle; she never considers
her toilet complete without them, and her best friend and pro4
tector's name is, oftenest on her lips mingled with' the:fAies.
Stay ! there is one other; but we wont tell tales of 4a modest
child, who loves in'secret. Old yellow-skinned Chapeta looks
upon the slender maid with little favor;abut she is a simple
innocent foi all that; she is' ignorant too, but kniowsh  duties,
and does them faithfully, and is all alive with gratitude er mas- '

4I;  1     4
I
f  /'tt1 '
_         I +idl,  111
1  I 1"


OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.

ter, "Senior Aleka."  She has' sorne accomplishments: she can
dance 'the gay bolero and springing cachucha, swaying her
agile body,' coiling and uncoiling her supple arms, and beating
the castahets with her'pretty:brown fingers. The old yellow-
skined-Chapeta could, 'perhaps,- once, but it was a long time
ago. Uncle Alec loves to see Zitella dance, and to hear her
sing her wild Indian songs,' arid he has a dim intention of send-
ing her to Roaring River to be taught, but lazily postpones it.
She heard something of such a plan once, which she only
understood as a threat of exile from her dear home, and she re-
doubled her efforts to please and serve. She simply adores Seior
Aleka, .and she has good cause : she made acquaintance with
bitter -sutfering and' keen hardship, such as homeless outcasts
know, before she found shelter in San Christabel.
Passing, one evening, by the palguera of the, Good Friends,
he cane upon- a group of .eeros, squatted on the ground,
getting as drunk as lords upon their "heavenly palque " and
jumped off his brazcador and scattered' them right, and left with
his. good riding-whip. - He was erraged by the screams of a
little brown -mite. who was crouching helpless on the ground,
and he.laid his Malacca smartly about the shoulders of the old
hag who' was beating her with a paddle.. The poor 'baby was a
wretched bundle of rags and filth, but she lookedat the gentle-
man with such beseeching eyes, hushing her frantic sobs, and
clsping her small hands, as she crawled  'his feet, that the
ten4tlehearted1old fellow could not,make. up his mind to leave
herbehind -him 'to the cruel verigence. he saw. glittering in the
sniky{eyes which.tortured and devoured her prospectively; and
he sruck ha1rgain with. the tepro, and paid:roundly for the
pleasure of being kind, inshining gold pieces,. andstuck his
foundling up.behind him on his bazgador,  ..snorted and
toisecislongmane ndisgust at the queer burden.: And so

OLD FRIENDS WIT!! NEW FfAcAS.--
San Christabel was her Paradise, and good 'Senor Aleka her
Providence. Old yellow-skinned Chapeta made horrible faces
and grunted out some Aztec gutturals, for a reception ofthe
stranger ; but Zitella has managed to lead a gay1free life in spite
of her. Why should she fear, while, El Senor is her friend? but
should he ever leave San Christabelj he would do, wisely to
marry the little maid to some honest fellow, or' she might fare
hardly. "A favorite has no lovers."
A caracdlla 'approaches along the winding drive, and Uncle
"Alec leaves his frolic with the young tapir and pushes off the
mother, and looks up expectantly, It draws to the door, and
the driver springs to the ground and leans against his horse in
an attitude of lazy grace, while his p senger alights. - He' is
fully alive (this driver) to the tiuth that he is a handsome fellow,
and enjoyingly mindful of the side-glances which' simple Zlla
gives him from among her roses ; and he shows his white teeth
in a gay smile, when the crimson flames up in her 'dusky cheek ;
and he turns up his mustache, and drops his' eyes over his jaunty
dress, which he evidently considers' quite the-thing. "His Mexi-
can hat, which he holds in one hand, has a. brim six inches wide;
a low crown surrounded With siver lace "and- ornamented by a
flaunting feather; .his striped flannel jacket, sleeveless, displays
his bronzed arms, modelled like a youthful Ganyrnede; his flashy
silken sash, which girds 'him instead-of braces, has a horse-pistol
in one side, and a bright cutlass in the 'other, and bothofthem
Hilario knows well how to use; his peagreen breeches are 'open
at the knee, and thickly studded down 'the seams, with bright
silver buttons; iLads la jara boots of: stamped leather, hav-
ing a pair of vast spurs on the stiff 'heels' (without which no
Mexican feels himself quite a man) He flashes.hi dark pene-
trating eyes, and rests one hand on hiss cutlass, 'as the fierce

i
. ,
.
;
; ,  l. ;
; !
,;
r,
+ I I ,
'
; i  E i!
t  Iii i
''' ;  1
tt;
1'   1I(
i i
i ,i ,
,i{I'
, i!,;''
,.
,' ;-
; ; , r
i;l,,, ,
'i1i7  ',;;.
-i
_   II I  ' I",
I il nJi:


OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.      7T9

brigand might have done, who wooed the Spanish maid, Zitella,
beneath the round-orbed moon in old Castile.
"George Blair !" exclaimed Uncle Alec. "We have a visi-
tor from home!"
Both gentlemen started to their feet, but with widely
differing welcomes in face and attitude, as ..the traveller
descended from his caratella, with weary gesture, like one
fatigued with tiresome journeying.
"Ye gods and little fishes !" Uncle Alec spread his hands in
fantastic astonishment. Unless he be dead, and has arrived at
the dignity of a ghost, this should- be my nephew Otho. Why
you come upon us like a shooting star! You drop down upon
my very door-step, as. easily as my neighbor San Juan, who
breakfasts with me three mornings out of the seven; and yet you
shrild smell of the salt ocean ; you are fresh from the yeasty
waves, the cradling billows, have been wooed by "westlin
winds."  Whew! my dear boy, don't you know it is dangerous
to astonish a fat elderly gentleman to such an extent ? Make
haste slowly, is the only wear with the thermoneter at ninety
in the shade."
Uncle Alec was entirely oblivious to the fact that his hasty
rising had overset his cane-seat upQn Spotty, who withdrew
snarling and sneezing; and began to pace up and down, with
his head. on one side, licking his lips, occasionally, as he eyed
the humans ; but at this point a scuffle and rush, and a piteous
cry,-caused the host to turn around., Somehow Spotty had run
against the little tapir ; and I suppose he nipped him, because
every hair on his mother stood on end, and her tail was wiggling,
about and her teeth were champing; and the maccaw shouted
out provoking laughter,v.when the marimonda dropped upon
Spotty'.s back' from his sightly perch, and he turned tail.and
ran away. Not that Mr. Maccaw knew any thing of what was

going on, only he heard a yelping and scufflef06m his sightly-
perch; and he always, upon principle, helped out any hubbub.
" Otho, my dear fellow, welcome to San Christabel .!" said
Uncle Alec, after laughing at the fracas. Come, hasten and give
us news of little pet. How I should love to see her. pretty
face among my flowers ! and, by Jupiter, she'd name every indi-
vidual of them for you, without a Flora. Why didn't you bring
her along ?-two years not up, hey? and Sir Masterful will
not 'bate one jot of his determination. I've .a great mind to send
you back for her : give you a good Mexican breakfast, though,
first. Here, you Hilario,.you've -stood on one leg long enough;
never mind. making any more eyes" at Zitella just now; lift out
that valise. American baggage ,is it, nephew?  Inside there,
Juan - tenth room. Rosillo, look after this gentleman: cool
water, a lime, a bath, and then breakfast."
While running on thus, in a hearty voice, and with ruch
Yankee hand -shaking, Uncle Alec had been all the while-
studying his guest and wondering what trouble had driven him
from home. It must be trouble; for his proud, grave face was
unlighted by any smile, even while he answered his host's cor-
dial welcome in courteous phrase.
Still holding the young gentleman's hand, he turned sud-
denly.
"George Blair, have you forgotten Otho.Groenveldt?"
"I assure you no! Mr. Craigenfels," answered George, bow-
ing slightly; and his bitter tone said, " I have too good cause to
remember him."
Otho bowed in return: he could do no less; but the whole
story which his Roaring River friends had told him, -how this
man had deserted his wife (and the best and sweetest wife in
the world too) for no cause, and left her with her boy, shut up
to her solitary life (o solitary that she refused to see even Aim,

r
f
''
1
.
i
'
1
I   .
'; I t
'   i}
-   'j
tI,1,
, .
r!'j   '   ,
!
I  l;i uJl't .

©LD.FRIENDS -WITH NEW )ACC'S.

{
I
'        f  i
J,'
a
1     ,;  I
t'
f' 1
i - t i


D-OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW F4CES.
thefriend of her childhood) to her heart-wearing grief, to strug.
gle with poverty.
In the instant that the two men stood facing each other,
Otho weighed the young blacksmith in his ;mental balance, and
set hirn down a selfish rascal, who had cut loose from his forge,
and 'his duties, that he might seek a fortune out here in the
mines; for himself; the scorn which proud, upright 'Otho felt
for the faithless husband, the irresponsible schemer, showed in
his face, scarce ruled by any effort of courtesy.  He had
scant time for a display of his 'feelings, for the giant, who
had stood back, with clenched hands and thick-coming breath,
turned on his heel and marched off. A blow is the natural
sequence of such a look and such 'an attitude as his, but
though his muscles worked fearfully and his veins filled, while
he looked Otho in the eye, he held himself quietly. There was
trouble and anger and bitterness and terrible suffering on his
massive face; but. no self-despising, no shame : he saddled his
high stepping brascador, and started full passo for bocca Mina.
The deep bay Dhole, whom no man could tame till George
Blair took him in hand, turned his wonderfully, keen brilliant
eye upon him as he appeared,' and rose from his lair and shook
himself, and. prepared to follow his master ; and the great Thibet
dog, whose province it was to watch the women and defenceless
folks about the hacienda, came and put up his hanging lips and
rubbed hispowerful head against the giant for the customary
caress.
"AI aimas are livng hieoinys,-
. edlshis tado t thstad stegg cat;
Hfwkbul,- andall that breathe, uz something more
To- the, true ~eye, than th saeir ho.;  ____4 or
He made in love, and made to be loved.
There was not a dumb creature' that came under George
Blaira hand but felt the rhiagnetismn of his power, and rendered

OLD FRND)2, 1WITH NEW FACES.
him willing obedience; and in his =saddest;moods he gave a
word and a look, to the favorites. who fawned-upon him. His
horse was' fleet, playful, and gay, but the swift motion could not
quiet his tumultuous =pulse-beat xnir lift the Sorg ain,'lhich
clutched  his heart.    I ..'"    ':!'.:  '
 A true Mexican bieakfastea-erther...ndlers i theiidws,
queet jugs 'on the brackets, full of flowers, the' glra 'd+isp  ded
fan lazily managed by the,'bronize pag, the table-amarble slab,
heaped with' fruits "luscious peaches grapes bananas, pines,
melons, grenaditoes, and' thedeliios hitniogas, encasieg in
their enerald'rinds all'the'charingflavors of the other fruits,
and' are so delicate that they n _nst be eaten with purest
silver. Theyresent common steel, and turn rusty at its touch.
Uncle Alec ,received his nephew fresh froru'hliis bath,rhis
usually colorless face 'wearing'{a sunbu-n on his cheeks* 'which
made his high white forehead;whiter still';' his jetty danstache
and thick 'hair 'glossy with darmp, and. a faint odor"-of cditilled
jessamine flowers, which Rosille had sprinkled ujson them, just
touched and. left the setiseasshe-moved to tie seat whieh his
host offered, opposite his own, with many 'words of ;Crdial.wel-
com;  and  ho gh;the genial plasterr admired his' manly
beauty he. felt unpleasantly the proud, selfacontained ha ghti-
nessof his reser ed=rnainer and he 'wondered again what it all
meantand"he thornght of little Pet, and!sighed; These large-
hearted' men and wom'enjwho carry other people's sorrows, are
most of allto be pitied; for they gran benh burdens they
have no share in heaping, and vcaioalys  without heal
img thesick soul:for whom they aresoe  mitgled
Zitella never'ierniitted any othe hands  wait upon her
master 'at table, o ether Wheres'if she 'could servhun  and she
came 'th airy'step' and''siul.e 'eathg .hero.  elicalled
up by Hilaios lastijestSaud'cerrie4 6ff tbe fnilts wichthe to

', ii
! !'   '
i, ;
,  11
f
'    ^'
i
,:.    ,
,;lei
+,    ;
R ( ,ili
'   +
ji ,   '
lip;  j  w

'      r
t
i

' i


OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.        88

.OLD' FRIENDS WITH- NEW F4CES.'

had loitered a. long while among; and brought, one by one,
the savory dishes,- for Mexicans never crowd or mix their good
things,- emparanda of dried fish, highly seasoned with chile, and
mixed with pounded shrimps and oil, and baked between two
thin corn-cakes;- ducks stuffed with mushrooms; frigoles; hare,
stewed in wine; broiled quails; and, through all, the usual ad.
mixture of onions, oil, and capsicums, and the inevitable
tortillos, hot with chile, which she fetched in a snowy napkin,
and laid-beside each plate, carefully serving Sefior Aleka first.
Then came chocolate prepared in the curious little lignuii-vitoe
mills, without which no rancho is complete. The frothy beverage
thus concocted has a flavor which a stay-at-home cannot even
dream of.
Uncle Alec watched his guest, in secret amusement atthe In.-
dian;stoicism with which he got through a peppery meal, which
needed long habit to.endure, much more enjoy.
"You.will do to live in Mexico, my boy ! you take to pep-
.per as naturally as .a duck takesto water."
fullyy intend to live here, sir," replied Otho, without lifting
his eyes from his plate.
nAcle Alec studied him, and a shade of displeasure crossed
his; ,genial face; something in the tone as well as the matter
.of the reply fretted and chafed him, and he £elt "like speaking
up;" ,but dear old Alec Craigenfels had "suffered and got
strong" years ago, and learned a large tolerance. He took up
a silver-boundgoblet. of golden crystal at his elbow and began
praising the palque it contained, ascribing to it as many good
qualities as the " Bonnie Scots",do to whiskey.
4It-i's a stomachic, my boy, -a great promoter of digestion ,
and good sleep, -a sovereign cure for trouble. Strangers tell
us it smells like sour milk, tainted meat, and such like. Perhaps
it may, to uneducated nostrils; but we lyexicans know that it is

a wholesome and refreshing beverage." And then he launched
out into a long description of the process of manufacture, and
of the aloe, Agave Americanus; how theIndians know the
precise moment of cutting the flower-stalk- to secure the-sap
distilled by the, plant for the coming bloom, and -the leathern
bottas in which it is fermented; and if Otho knew that this
uncle was talking to keep off the relation of difficulties ,he
dreaded, and which-he felt was coming, he did not show. it; but
he questioned and replied with ready and grave attention.
"I must take you out to my Maguy plantation : the yellow
and white spinose teethed narcissi which Thomas cherishes up
at Craigenfels are babies to these fellows with their leaves eight
feet long. I've a thousand in my field, and a hundred.of them
bloom every year. Why you see the great scooped out 'cup
which. receives our 'honey-water' is two feet 'deep. That-is
the name we give the pure sap before we ferment it.it is
scentless,,and thin and clear, and we take a. portion of jt for
our ' master palque,' or mother of palque, as the Indians call
it. They make a yeast from it to ferment the rest; and in four
and twenty hours after: setting it is in its most=perfect state} for
drinking.
"Here, Zitella, bring us a fresh botta. Now. this. was made
yesterday, and you perceive that:it is very delicate and pleasant.
Many planters make what we call -Mxia  a coarse brandy
from our aloe. But I an! content with my palque. The sold
Aztecs pound their paper from its leaves, and the' Indians
now.pulltita or twinefrom its fibres. So you',see my boy our
agace is a useful ,servant,; and it is only one among many which
belong to us. Mother Nature is very goodto her 'children of
the sun.' Well, after your first trial, what can' you say,. for
palque ?"

82

j
'  E
.y
' ,f
',f
r
'1,,
i
'' .-
~
' k
t
M
t
,f
'    ,    -.
;4
"fi


84      OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.

"I think-a taste might be acquired for it. It is said that the
Chinese are fond of assafoetida as a perfume."
Uncle Alec'laughed. "'Rather hard Qn our native liquor, but
you'll find you: prefer it to wines, or., even your dear American
mixeddrinks, which are enough to kill a'horse. Howel's saying
of sacks and canaries, applies richly to your chamipagn cocktails,
brandy smashes, and such like. They are deemed fit only for
t '  -those who carry their legs:in their heads, their eyes upon their
noses, and an almanac in their bones."
"rGraphic and original, at any rate," replied Otho. "But the
American drinks are 'all strangers to me. I have no fancy
for poisoning my blood and burning up my brain, with any such
vile abominations Light German wines are all very well in
Germany, but even 'these are out-place, and not needed in our*
nothern climate, where the air is as invigorating as chai-
pagne.".
:Quiteright; my boy; but still, our palque is a friend to man-
kind, a corffrter in sorrow."
Otho availed .himself of the first pause in the talk to say
proudly, like, one needing 'human help:and sympathy, and yet
despising it, "Uncle Alec, I have. come to you for work ; give
me something to do; the more difficult and absorbing the better.
Do notask me any questionsbut put me into something that
will keep my head and hands busy, and let me settle Mexican
at once."
Mr. Craigenfels made no reply but sat looking across at the
youngman' in a troubled, anxious way, and his thoughts travelled
away tQ Roaring River and busied themselves about a young
girl,:named Christabel Goldsmith,-who was the child of Fred the
artist, his, boyhood's friend, and who he knew was betrothed to
this man.
"Poor little pet!" he thought. "I as good as knew that he'd

-   OLD"FRIENDS WITH NEW' FACES.              85
make her suffer, he's 'such a masterful 'chap. It would be as
much as my life is worth, I suppose, to inquire into his affairs.
Sitting there so proud and provoking I I shall have,'to do my
best in the dark. They've quarreled, 'of course: that is the up-
shot of it ; and her sweet life is as good as spoiled.- 0 Lord!"
"Well, it is odd, Otho," he began aloud; "'very odd-; bht do
you know George Blair came to me in the same 'way, -=-asking
for work'; said he had left his.life behind him'; didn't want any
questions asked, but must begin anew. 'Have you 'had any
quarrel with George, Otho ?"
" No, sir," replied Otho, loftily.
" Ah, well ! he's a wrecked boat, I'm afiaid ; cut adrift from
safe mooring ; broken up almost; he is always brooding over
something. But I believe he is a true man, after all. I wish I
could help' him out of his trouble. Have you any idea what
sent him out here ?"
" Not the least, sir : it is his own secret," answered Otho,
coldly. "I have no wish to discuss Mr. Blair's affair i: my own
life is' all I can manage."
"We don't manage our lives, my boy'" replied Uncle Alec,
seriously and simply; "and happy are we, when we learn'tofeel
the Hand which leads us. I aiii very glad to have yoUnith me.
I would have proposed it to you; 'if I 'had -supposed you free to
come; and-I will be as hospitable as an Arab tod  You'shall
keep your own counsel; - only remember that -when you do
need advice, if such a time could evercome-to such aself-
possessed chap"(Otho winced), "you've a kind old uicle at
hand, who loves you like his own  Iwant you t6 know all
about the 'Mexican loPerty; I should hateto have it fall'away
after I am gone. I hope you will always keepit  somehow;
though, of course, I can't expect you to bury yourself out h'ere."
" I have just told you, Uncle Alec, that I have left the'
. 8


86        OLD FRIENDS WITI NEW FACES.
States- forever; and I will .enter heart and soul intt your
schemes."
"cWell, well, my boy, that's all very well ; and it is in the dim
future. We wont pin ourselves down to any sudden resolve.
I have plenty. of irons in the fire, all red-hot; and you shall
choose which to take a clip at first. There's my cafetele, I've
been-over it this-morning; trees full of berries and as plump
and green as peas, and the little ingenio, sugar grove, you know.
Before I. fixed my trepiche, I surveyed the ground carefully,
and I count it about the neatest thing I've got. My gang
of fifty hands can make ten - thousand arrobas of sugar as
easy as turn the fistover, and they will do it too. Then there's
my indigo lot - that's just the prettiest little trabajo / 'Ifill your
pocket with Spanish dollars. The Aztecs thought no small
beer of it, to judge from the' name they blessed it with, -'Xiuh-
guilipitzahuac I' Pronounce that, Sir Nephew, if you are able ;
a mouthful,.isn't it? yet it ripples off Zitella's lips as smooth as
water over the pebbles. I mustn't forget to introduce you toy
my red-flowered night beauty; the Yankees keep'it in bottles,
and they give it to little boys."
Uncle. Alec spread his'hands over his ample stomach, and
made a series of puckered-faces.. "Jalap, Otho ! .So I knew
you'd remember your early acquaintance with my 'Belle de
Zuit.' It is a lovely creature.- to look at. I must send some
plants to Thomas. There's a pile of money in any of these, my
boy; I've only amused myself. among them as Mexican toys, but
I haven't lost a dime,though ; oh, no, 'I make my little sports
pay.. This is .a great country, sir ! we ought to annex it; that's
gospel truth. Why wax alone would be . fortune (I've a jolly
lot of bees down at my hacienda); and there's cochineal, and
tabasco peppers, and aguavas, and olives, and pistacho-nuts,
ibesides all. the fruits .I've placed before you this morning.

OLD FRIENDS WI TH AEW FACES.     87

Think of the woods ! -campeachy, mahogany, and a thousand
others, all beautiful. 0 Lord !"
Uncle Alec wiped his face, which was hot with excitement
over his favorite topic.
"What ever brought you Otho?" (flourishing his, handker-
chief, and looking very kindly in his nephew's face). "I'm sure
it was nothing mean or unworthy; and whatever it was,i'm
glad to have you with me. I love you, my boy ; and I must
begin with you directly. We'll commence this very day to look
over the different works, and post. you thoroughly."
Otho was checked in his reply by the sound of a zittern be-
neath the great open window, and a rich voice singing,-
" Gentle Zitella, whither away?
Love's ritornella,list while I play."
Glancing out, they saw Hilario seated on the ground, and
the young Indian maid standing a little way off, well pleased
with the song and the singer.
"Nay, nay, child,, mind thyroses ! Never look so shyly
bright; even though his hair is jetty andhis face handsome,
never heed his soft Spanish words. I misdoubt me, this Hi.
lario is too full of whims and. hot tempers to be a wise guardian
of thy innocence. San Christabel is a safe shelter for. thee.;
even though the yellow-skinned Chapeta be .cross and fierce,
and would be cruel if she dared."
While kind Uncle Alec was listening to the voice and looking
thoughtfully at Zitella, tramping hoofs came hurrying on ; and the
young fellow, the ridgr, would have hunted down the singer who,
touched so gaily the zittern-strings, and whose eyes drank in
the young. listener's beauty, had he not sprang nimbly aside ;
and a flush of wrath deepened his dusky red as he did so, and
his ready hand sought his cutlass. Reining up his horse before

!   1+
E;.
4
f    L   (
r
xl
1 4  '
i"
jl
i


88        OLD FRIENDS' WITH NEW FACES.
Zitella, the rider said something to her, with an unpleasant
laugh, which caused her to shrink away from him. Uncle Alec
frowned and~ looked ill pleased, though he gave the stranger
courteous greeting. He was a striping; tall, slender, with muddy,
impure complexion'long, straight hair, and pale-blue eyes. He
and his fatheit, DonJuan, were guests- at the neighboring
racienda, and though frequent visitors at Sau Christabel,"were no
favorites with its genial owne. Their ship, moored down the bay,-
waited for theit going ; and its queer crew' swore' deep oaths in
strange tongues at the prolonged delay. -This eighteen-'year-old
boy took':a wilckedpleasure in pursuing Zitella, and the:prefer-
ence sbe showed for Hilario gave zest 'to his amusement. 'As
he was come for the day, Uncle Alec asked him to join him and
Otho in their ride to the mine, simply because he could not
safely leave him behind.S
Meanwhile -Georgel1afr had reached the boca mina and
fofndit soroionidedby the rein who were waiting for aggador,
who was down the deep level, firing the slow matches-; the swift
cabellos'wereerearing and'stamping about the- malacates, their
tossing heads with difficulty held in'i check' byttwo half-naked
Indianstill the signalfoi starting 'Soiething terribleas writ-..
tef on'all the faces ; the4admistrador gesticulated wildly, and
threw his-arms about; and the miners hung their 'heads in
sifene'or growled threateninglyfamonithenselves; and the
wild lejeros hung about the groups and mingled their Aztec gut-
turalto the clamor of 'the woei ern and children; who howled
and tore their-hair. George pushed his- hraeador2to themidst,
.an- thfew himself off 'with,'a 'hasty qnestion.
The basket had come' up emiptyafterone blast and no' one
was willing to 'godown to the'poor egador, wh6 wasf course
lying' neaU orrisimed 'aS the bottom. No second$reortcame.

OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.               89.
to their ears, and the call of the' adminstrador was like the
summons " Come forth to thy death, Victor Galbraith!"
" Here ! you barretero ! give me your hat."  George seized
the felt helmet from the head of a 'stolid miner; who stood
slouching and stubborn, staring down the shaft. The lighted
candle flared'yellow in the daylight, and the cabdlos started
tramping on their course. George felt a grim pleasure in tempt-
ing the danger below him, and sprang to it bg dly.
"Senor !" exclaimed the administrador, grasping the giant's
shoulder, "there's death, maybe, at the end of that rope.!"
"Stand back all of you ! " shouted George, 'shaking him off.
" There's a man's duty there, at any rate, which is muchnore
to the purpose !"
In the breathless silence which' followed, he descended
slowly, and the yellow flame flared red and redder, as it disap-
peared ; and the fearful hush was only broken by the creak of
the cylinder, as the cord slowly unwound. Oozing water and
loosening earth showed -to him by seconds, out of the black
darkness; and slimy reptiles looked forth from their crevices;
hairy spiders darted out and glared - on him with their eight
thousand eyes ; a shining black' scorpion made a jump for the
basket as it swung past his lair, and, missing his 'expected prey,
he fixed his deadly fangs into a harmless golden lizard- which
was watching the light on a tiny shelf of rock, and the bright
little eyes saw nothing more. George understood well the
certain death he had escaped, and he fixed his thoughts on the
danger he was seeking, :dashing aside with resolute 'will, the
image of Otho Groenveldt, which kept inti-uding itself; banishing
also, with a heart-sick sob, the pretty face of sweet Rnthie in' the
Horseshoe. If the matches were'fired -then his minutewere
counted! that was all and/his wife was free.
He tuhed the lowest level, leaped quickly from the basket,
8*-

'!
'
1
r
s
i
,
, j
r
,;
.'
;
,.
,t
, ;
}     j

t   .     ,
"
' .f
r      - i
~
j        I
f  l
I
i
'  ''   i
}    ,'
Ji
1
,    E  i
. E ..  ,
I   i
j ,,,

10
t


90      OLD. FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.

and ran warily and swiftly in quest of the pegador, shouting
and whistling as he advanced. In a boveda or vaulted chain.
ber he stopped short-the mangled head of the poor wretch
was almost beneath his foot, the matches close grasped in his
clenched hand; and leaping;across the still body, he pursued his
search. He came upon the trains in the new gallery, five of
them unfired. Somehow the work -had been carelessly or im-
properly done, and the first two had exploded before the rest
were laid; and the horrible mingling of sulphurous odors and
burnt flesh loaded the thick air ; and bits of rock were scattered
all around the place. George took up the body in his arms
and carried it down to the shaft and laid him at its mouth, and
covered the shattered face with his handkerchief, and turned
back to his work. As he hurried past the boveda, he heard a
- scratching, scuffling noise, mixed with squealing and squeaking,
which sounded oddly enough in the echoing chamber, and,
stout:llow as he was, he nearly shuddered to find himself sur-
rounded by hundreds of rats, who gambolled about him and ran-
over him with every sign of delighted welcome. The lowest level
had been unworked for a month or so, and these creatures,.
were rejoiced to see humanity once more. That rats inhabit
the deepest of the mines is well known, but how they subsist is
not so clearly ascertained. After a little civilized creeping of
his flesh, George sat down on a tram to observe what they
would be at. They climbed up, and filed in squads, leaping a
dozen times their length, standing upright and playing their fore-
feet like, professional boxers; catching each other by the tail,
mixing up in grotesque antics, till he rose to go toward the blast,
when they, followed him, and marched in platoons beside and
bO Id him.. As soon as he began laying the trains, however,
they vanished : they knew all about gunpowder, and scamp
ered off. le fired the slow.matches-six of themand hastened

OLD FRIENDS WiTH NEW FACES.              91
from the death at his back. As he neared the shaft, he came
again upon his friends the rats, but they had forgotten him:
they had discovered the .body of the poor j egador, and strug-
gled around and over it, tearing and devouring ; and the basket.
had gone up out of George's reach : he saw it, by the light of
his candle, slowly ascending. The tremendous, power he put
forth for his life could not enable him to leap high enough to
seize it. The commotion the rats had made.,scrambling about',
it had been mistaken by those at the top for a signal. and-the
fatal matches were slowly firing behind him in the new gallery!
Just one instant the blood stopped in his heart, and sparks
kindled in his eyes ; then his cool courage returned, and he set
off to undo his work. He neared the trains with lightning swift.
ness ; he tore up the kindling threads -dne ! two ! three!-
six! - he was safe ! and after an instant's deep breath he started
back, hoping to find the basket in its place again - of course they
must instantly send it down, when they found there was no explo-
sion and that it had confe up empty ; but a-new peril awaited
him, - his candle was burning low, and he must dare the rats so
as to be at the mouth before darkness overtook him. He shouted
and clapped his hands, and the horrible noise he was approach-
ing ceased for an instant ; but before he reached them his
taper flared up and expired in its socket, leaving him in a thick
darkness that might be felt, and his dreadful neighbors between
him and the rope. No human voice could reach the -upper
world; and he slowly felt his way, keeping close to the side- of
the gallery. Twenty or thirty steps he made in safety, and then
he set his foot upon a yielding body, and hastily withdrew it.
With a squeal of rage, the rat he had wounded set his teeth into
his leg, and his fellows swarmed upon :him to avenge their com-
rade. George fought them off and clenched his teeth. Keeping
one hand upon the wall, he pushed oh; still there was no

/     :
;  '
_    f
,r
''
', (
,
;
e      i
,i ;' }
,f,(
'i
. ~
, ,
,
,.
,  ,f,! .
,
;,  ','I


OLD~ FRIENDS WITH NEW !AFCkS.
basket, anj his utmost efforts could not hold .his enemies long
at bay. He thought he must be close to the mouth but could see
no light. His hands were covered with blood, his legs had al-
ready many wounds from the sharp teeth seeking his life ; he
struck out desperately and pushed them off, and ground them
under his, feet. Glancing up in grimdespair, he espied a bright
star. He was right, then !-this was the mouth of the shaft; but
that star ! it was as far off as heaven ; and-- well, it was a horri-
ble -death to die, but if' it miiust be. Something struck his
face a smart blow, and he seized the basket with both hands
and,.swung himself in, but not alone, for his tormentors kept
their hold. As he slowly ascended, he managed to rid himself of
the half-dozen who were clinging to him; and when he reached
at length the boca mina, he held the last one clutched in his
fingers, and- he dashed it to the earth as he stepped upon the
firm ground once more. His shoes were full of blood, and-his
linen clothing streaked and rimmed with the marks of his peril.
Uncle. Alec and Otho were waiting anxiously at the top of the
shaft, 'and the young Spaniard, Pequillo, who strode away as he
came up.
"My-dear fellow ! I never was so glad to . see anybody in
my life !" exclaimed Uncle Alec, as soon ashe espied the giant's
head. " Iwas afraid you's' come up cold meat.; Good God!
what is this ! why George is covered with blood!"
George's 'face contracted, and he brushed the trickling
drops from his cheek-; he turned deadly sick as he threw one
thought downward to the lowest - level where' lay what was left
of the poor-egador. Otho spoke hastily, in a voice of still
excitement.
"You must have help at once ! lean on' my arm, Mr. Blair; I
see you can scarcely stand."

OLD FRIENDS WZ7V NEW FACES.              9
The vibrating voice in his ear brought back George's strength,
and he pushed past them all.
"I've a few scratches, Mr. Craigenfels; nothing tremendous.
Men must be sent to the lowest level at once,.with: lights. and
arms ; there ishorrible work going on down there. The devils of
rats are busy with that poor pegador. There's no danger from the
blasts; the matches are all safe. Come, you administrador, don't
stand staring there- push on your men, quick ! The Thibet
dog greeted George with a piteous howl; and the young Dhole's
bright eyes suffused with blood, as he kept close at his master's
side ; his fierce wild nature kindled within him as he snuffed .the
dripping garments, and he drew back his lips from his sharp
teeth and gave voice to a dangerous snarl. George had firm..
ness of hand enough left tooguide his brazcador, who had stood
proudly arching his neck in absolute stillness where he was left,
and he- dashed joyously off with his burden. Hilario was gone
with his caratella when he reached -San Christabel, but he came
upon the old yellow-skinned Chapet, talking with Bequilto, and
her parchment claw clutched a bright, gold: piece which she. hid
out 'of sight as . he galloped by, and she crept stea;thly be-
neath the thick acacias, which closed up behind her.
Dismounting -at; the broad ' veranda, George called Zitella,
who came tripping. fram the garden her hands full of roses,
which she dropped at eightt ofhis blood:and wounds.
" Quick ! Zitella, girl ! brh g n some band4g  and  ba in
of water. Only some bites from the rascally rat. Lp ;d tgern a
visit, and this is their idea of hospitality. Do not grow so pale,
child-! I'm not dead yet ; oh, no, I'm good for any amount of
fortune's hard knocks. Men don't die so easily.
As the giant set his teeth in grim endurance of the stnging
pain, the young Indian girl flew to thehedge and gathered .her
arms full of a broad-leaved plant which she made haste to


94     OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.

pound and apply to the wounds. While she was still busy, Otho
came walking with quick step ; he was very white, and.he spoke
with an air of-lofty superiority, which all his desire to serve
could not control.
"Mr. Blair, pray permit me .to examine your wounds. It was
a narrow escape; fortunately I always carry my instruments
about me."
George lowered the poultice he was holding to his cheek, and
held it in his great shapely hand, while he looked in the young
doctgris face.
" I do not mind such wounds as these : they are only skin
deep, and easily healed.  'Go thy way with a merry heart,
and eat thy bread with joy.'  I thank my God that he-has not
brought me so low as to need help from you ! And turning
his back, he impatiently called, "Come, Zitella! hasten, and
make a finish with your cataplasms. I must get out of this;
my work is waiting for me."
Otho Groenveldt's eyes kindled. He had so far overcome
his disgust at George Blair's conduct as to offer service, and
this was the answer he got ! He was astonished, too, at:the
black look which accompanied it --,the deep hate, almost; and
he solved the problem to his own satisfaction, thus:
"When a man does a deed which' makes him despise him.
self, he hates all who knew him in his true manhood. My
prefer  here is a reproach to him. I was a dear and tried
friend to poor Ruthie."

CHAPTER VI.
ThE TRIANGULAR DUEL.
HE glimmering dawn fought with the yellow gas-light,
and a sick girl lay tossing and moaning on her restless
bed. All Deacon Williams's household were asleep,
and Sonsie Eagan sat watching Mary Ann, in the half darkness,
and dipping a soft sponge in the cooling lotion at her side, atid
tenderly touching her heated forehead. This young Irish lassie
had had the door slammed in her face when she left the Dea-
con's service, and her bits of duds chucked at het from the
garret window, with hard words enough to give the bundle bal-
last; but Mary Ann was"down with fever now. She hardly bore
the journey from" Rosenbloom; and sick folks have whims:
with her arms around her father's -neck, she 'begged to have
Sonsie Eagan to nurse her. 'The thrifty Mamma Williams in a
sick-room was like a bull in a china shop, -she knocked every
thing over, and picked every thing up, and slashed every thing
into place remorselessly ; she banged the doors and:-clattered
the dishes.; she bathed the patient's head by the job, and put
her muscle into the labor ; and punched the pillows,and scold-
ed, in "a loud voice, rising early," about the trouble itwasp and
the housework she was neglecting, and the expense and doc-
tor's bills;.and rated the weazened papa and the defenceless
children as if theywere the raiders andabettors of bdt Wrongs:
Deacon Williams 'roved hiimself a kind father anda -feder in'

,THE TR114NG llLAR D UEI.        95'


96         THE .TRIANGULAR DUEL.

this first sickness among his offshoots. He nursed Mary Ann
whenever he got the chance, and inclined a pitying ear to all
her whispered requests. As soon as 'he found out this whim,
'he put on his tall hat, sneaked out of the back door, and went
off to Ruth Blair's to fetch Sonsie.  He hardly dared think
how it was to be accomplished, but he trusted much to the posi-
tive, bright-skinned, wide-awake girl, for maintaining the posi-
tion he was about to beg her to take,,without any W. P. to
back him.
Sonsie listened with her eyes on his, and comprehended the
whole thing at once.
"Niver mind going back with me,.sir," said she.; "I'll man-
age fqr myself. Miss Mary Ann was always good to me ; and
she. shan't ask .me twic't to come to her. I'll get a stitch or
two ,of clothes together, and speak a, word to Mrs. Blair, and
be off in a half-hour. Ye may set yersel at aise, just, sir."
"Yes, Sonsie, we're a band of brothers, as you may say,
seemingly. I was 'ena'mpst afraid you wouldn't come.. Miss
Williams was a leegle sharp to .you,.I.know.;but you're a good
gi4,and my, Mary Ann, she's good grlp she said how. she
knew you'4 come.   Yes, yes, thank you.  I'll pay you any
wages you ask,-that is,,-any thing in reason, of course, seem-
nseeang        nore 1,         ussetSt reet, before the
half-hour she stip lated f or1d ticJe oft? itsimtes on Ruth's
old fashioned giocgin the kitchen of the Eosshoe.
hn e 1he  w ss Nora,='s he, shoyherwhite teeth;
' I 9id' g  .away  #fto Miss:Mary. An   wo'S expectin'
"Ah.  uv rneen    St. Joseph   ess ye for he brightm ner-
r. rys oye! ul ut I'm  1 d hen to; seeye here. Just kape
the 4ld 4raggon out:of the pace, and the poor. .child'ill have

TE TRZANG ULAR .bIEL. 9

a-chance to get well. And ye's the sharp lass, that is a match
for any Williams this day of the week, good luck to ye I"
When the Deaconess came up with a broom in her hand
and a towel pinned .around her head, she opened her'eYes.
Sonsie was gently bathing the patient's face. She had combed
her hair, straightened the bed, and was smiling while she talked
in a sweet crooning voice like a lullaby ; and the sick gil fol-
lowed all her motions with languid enjoyment and grateful
love.
"The massey me ! What are you here for, I should admire
to know ?  Did you fly in, or how?"
"I'm nursing Miss Mary Ann, just," whispered Sonsie.
"Don't ye be talking' so loud, mistress : she's dropinvoff. gi
do the sweepin' and the dustin' meself, when she wakens{nup.
Ye needn't mind stopping , either. I'm just going' to sing, her a
bit of a purty ditty to quiet the poor nerves of her. Sh:
of a tremble wid your noise. Sick folks can't bearlond-talki'
voices."
Sonsie had met Dr. Jenkins on the' way down, and explained
her mission, and knew he was coming up ; and she counted
on him to sustain the position she was so positive  asiumin
" There's no way but to be raster, you know, Sonsie,} saidshe
to herself; "or the auld dragon 'ill just tread on ye'; and its
a heavy foot and hand tiat she's got, as ye know yersel, to yer
sorrow; bad luck to her!
pened the door before Mrs. W   ailias couIld
find words to express her wrathful astonishment.
"AhSonsie' said le, shakig hands with te young nurse,
"glad to see you." Just the one we want, madam!  e  a
indeed count on a rapid mending in our pasten,.itti
aboit her. She's as full of magnetism as ah e  is ofmeat;
and the toch of her lhais better thahnanyhdiciee YouX

0

I

its
{i
t
!  r
'F
i{
'


T[E TRIANGULAR DUEL.TG

must give her full sway, and take some rest. I'll answer for
her capacity.. I am exceedingly glad you sent for her. I was
about to 'propose it ; of course, your mother-wisdom has gone
ahead of :me."
Mrs. Williams said not a word, but picked up her besom
and duster and vanished, secretly glad to, be rid of, the oner.
ous charge.
The sick-room was thereafter Sonsie's kingdom, and the doe.
tor her prime-minister. The loud, domineering mother reaped
what she had sown.  Her daughter's eyes turned away from
her ; -her forehead contracted into a troubled frown when she
heard the; maternal accents, harsh andrasping ; and she rested
more easily in. her absence. But the ruddy-faced nurse got
smiles in return for the hearty, hopeful words she " poured out
in her cheery, rich brogue ; and it was she who read the com-
fingpsalms, and, theinspiring promises, from the Holy Book
whi   sherhad learnedato peruse.
"Indade, then, 'twas a good day that ye tached me to read,
lylissg ary Ann, wasn't it,:now ?" saidrshe; "and here's a purty
it   a story about the cheatin' young gomersal that hatched
up   plan along wid hisxmother to get the whole farm for a
bowl Of soup- the tricksome pair of them."
She sang the plaintive hymns she jgot to love, - " The Shin-
ing. Shore," "Oh! When Shall we Dwellin Mansions of Light,"
and "Down by the Margin of the River."'
S.sie brgupthe dearfrignd, Mr. Growing, whom she loved
for his kind words and conmon-sense advice, to the -sick-room,
wlgih the Deacon. had Yfailed to-get the necessary W. P. for ;
and l.eryes filled andoverflowed under.his earnest teachings
.dhea tf/t pr .Yers. She held her patient's hand in hers, and
kn    y thebedsidehile he leader for themas, with a friend
fageI t face, , roor Mary Ann's theology was all of the threat-

ening, dreadful sort ; and it was a long struggle before she
could banish her fpars and repose in simple trust upon the kind
heart of her Christ, and feel the placid joy of sins forgiven
stealing intoher soul,  such peace as the world nor gives nor
takes away.
Sonsie had a secret of Mary Ann's, betrayed in the long,
weary night-watches, which made her uneasy.  This thin-
skinned, passionless girl had -managed to get in love with Cym-
balinus Adolphus Brown, Captain Slocuns exquisite nephew,
the great originator of many "riddles;" and she raved of him
when the fever kindled in her brain, and Sonsie heard her min-
gle his name with her prayers.. The selfish,,supercilious puppy
who -thanks to Belle Brandon's egging on, and to her own
simplicity - was glorified in her thoughts, ought to have got- a
blessing out of the fervent petition.
Sonsie also knew the whole ,history of .theianonymous letter
which had broken up the Blair family and sent the young hus-
band off no one knew whither ; for poor Mary Ann told it
over and over to her,; and. wept and grieved sorely over her
share in the cowardly performance ; and str igh forward Sonsie
took a private .reslution on the subject, which she only waited
a suitable tine 'to carry into effect.
"'Confession is good for the soul,"' said;she.; "and T'll just
take the poor child down to Miss Ruth as soon as river she's
got. ary fut to stand on..0  osi, yerlittle beggar! will ye
niver in the world learn to sayfoo4 as Mr. Jan was good enough
to be tachin' ye?"
Our brave Milesian had plenty-of provocations inher ser-
vice, but she kept at her post; partlyfrom a sense. of, duty and
love :for  ary Ann, and partly.for aaoy ef carryiyg, Qg1t. her
resolves,.whic  pos io. small glene t ofhgr congpositin.. it
was not that she in the least minded the sweeping and dusting

A

THE - TRfAi G-L L4R D U1 L


100

THE TRIANGULAR DUEL.

and odd jobs, while the sick girl slept, or the Deacon sat with
her: hard work never put Sonsie out ; but she had trouble to
keep her pert Irish, tongue still under the Deaconess's flings:
she saw so many good places for touching her up ; so many
flaws in her armor for her arrows of fun and sharp hits.
Here, you, Sonsie !-here's a towel to wipe your face on, and
not be using other folks's; you'd best mark it with a cross on
the corner, you're such a hot Catholic."
"Indade, mistress, unless you'd give it me for my own,
'twould be a pity to spoil it for yez ; you'd niver get any good
of it afterwards, wid the holy cross upon it !" answered Sonsie,
taking. the towel in her hands and examining it, while she
twinkled her eyes merrily.
"Why not, pray?"'
" Sure and faith, ma'am, and isn't it onpossible for the Devil
ever to tetch any thing that's got the blessed mark upon it?"
"Humph ! Better go and mumble some of your lating
prayers and keep your sassy tongue busy."
"Thank ye kindly, mistress! I don'f need to pray any more
this day  I can't expect God will forgit my praying so quick
as this; in particular as He knows this house needs the bles-
sing I was askin' 'em for; but I shall say a Deo gratias when
yer poor ininocent-girl gets up again, and I'm going back to Miss
Ruthie, just."
As the dame had' a cambric handkerchief she shedd Sonsie to
henistitch, she forbore to tax her further, and relieved her sur-
charged feelings by a sharp box on Payson's ears instead; and
then threw a black shawl over Mary Ann's bobolink, who was
carolling a joyous song for his sick mistress, which sable ex-'
tinguisher Sonsie quietly removed as soon as her stoutness. dis-
appeared; ani then she came smiling back to her" charge,and

TIlE TRIANGULAR DUEL.               101
chatted while she pulled the gossamer threads, and set the dainty
stitches.
" Listen, Miss- Mary Ann, till I tell you what I heard this
morning while I was waiting for yer patherns: 'Tis in, idle
hearts,' says Miss Zoe, says she, ' that love and mischief are
most nimble. The safest shield against the darts of Cupid, is
Minerva's thimble.' And Miss Sabrina said, 'Amen.' Now
what do you suppose it means, then?
Though Sonsie repeated the couplet in a sing-song way, she
had not lost a word; in fact, it had been running in her head
ever since.
"Oh dear! I don't know," answered Mary Ann, sadly. "I
wish I was smart, so that I could tell you all such things; but
Belle Brandon always said I was stupid, and I'm afraid 'tis the
truth."
"Don't give her the breath of your two lane lips to spake
her name, Miss Mary Ann I ' interrupted Sonsie, with an energy
of disgust, in which the thought of the treatment Jan Vedde
had got at the hands of that blonde beauty, mingled unconsciously
with her indignation, over the way the poor girl before her had
been played upon and cat's-pawed.
"Well, never mind; I'll try to be good and true, Sonsi  edr,
just as I am. You remember--oh, my dear Mr. Growing" (she
held out her thin hand to the'pastor),- "I'm so glad to see you!
you always come just in the right time. Now here'sSonsie
asking all kinds of hard questions. 1 never could ansiver hard
questions; and it is proper nice to have you to set her at- you
know every thing."
The minister smiled, and listened pleasantly while -Sonsi, re-
peated her puzzle ; and hemade her say the wordagain, and
cOrrect her apcent, anduntwist some of her r's; and then he
sat down and' told her all about it.

4 -


THE TRIANGUL AR DUEL.       '13

102       ,    '. tIIA itR DUL.

'The god of love, aid the god of war, and a lot of women
gods besides," said Sonsie, shaking her head; "I don't see
into&amp;it, at all.- Sure there's but the one God inmy catechism !
Maybe'tis the Holy Mary and the saints, just."
Mr. Growing rubbed his hands delightedly.
"You come up to me this evening, when you are out for your
health-walk, my good"child,'and I'll give you some books that
will help you. "I like girls and boys who are willing to study."
"Indade, but I will, then," replied Sonsie, with sparkling eyes.
" Yer -the right sort of a. priest,=sir. You tache yer people, and
yer-not the during time skleaping about the 'money, money ! '
like Father=O'Gorman. He'll put the life out of ye  and I'll
tell ye how he does it too -for smartness. Last Sunday, me
mother she- went to mass, and the Father, says he, 'there's
a couple of collections to be took up this day, and ye must all
pay -up spry, or I'll call yer names from the altar. We'll have a-
box for the bishop and a box for myself; and it's my own box
- that will pass first, sure."
- Mr. Growing laughed as much at the merry eyes of the girl
s atfer true story ; and he fell to thinking, and Christ and
An iclerist was the theme ; and though he talked kindly, and
S        pandeace behind him he was in a brown study when
he rsetog.- Putting on his hat, he opened the closet door,
and-was inside among Mary Anis dresses before -he cane to
himself'and discovered his mistake. Then he turned about .
witha -humorous queerness. .
-" You-see, So siv-1 I wanted to say my prayers."
"Yes, sir," she answered, comprehending him instantly; "but
-tisy er 0closetthat fer i tld toenerefob' theatre.
s Willias let Sorsie clea FiupathesiEckooi as soon as
-her d.ad   could get-tt-for  hlf day. Shei tok upthe
carpet, and made Hans shake it-y ard waslIed thepairt; ol-.

ished the windows, and replaced every thing in shining order;
and tenderly supported the weakness of the-invalid, and
steadied her tottering steps back to her own place again, where
she best loved to be left in quiet with her good, strong young
nurse.
"Ye'll do now, before long, Miss Mary Ann," she said. I'll
have to be getting' back to the Horseshoe. Miss Ruth is just
killin' hersel wid the work and the school-keepin'. I'll bid yez
good-by this evening, I think."
" This evening ! Why, Sonsie, what shall -I do without you ?"
(Mary Ann's eyes filled); "you are such a comfort to me; but I
know you ought to go. Poor Mrs. Blair looked tired yesterday.
She was walking with her head down and she would not ride
with me. She will hate me, Sonsie, when she knows; wont
she ? Oh dear ! I can't bear to part with you. That boy loves
you, but I love you too, Sonsie."
"Well, well ! Miss Mary Ann, I'll put in another week here
if you wont take on.- There, there- 1 don't cry, poor dear. I'm
not going to Limerick anyways, you know; and I'll run down
often to you in the gloaming, and take a little read with- you,
and patter a fistful of prayers, or a sing or so."
"No, Sonsie ; I'll try hard to fight my selfishness. I 4&amp;
you desire to be studying all the while: how I wish you could
have had my chance. - I didn't take to -learning anygreat. You
ought to go to Rosenbloom; it's such -a proper nice pla cetobe.
Wasn't happy there ;- but I was wicked. Oh, how I wish I
had a pile of money of my own ! I know what I'd do with
it."
"You'd niver be after sending me to schoolinow, Would you,
mavourneen?" exclaimed Sonsie, dropping dowrnbeside herin-
valid, swelling up and half sobbing. No iliat'sogood f you!"
She was as grateful as though she had got the deed aswell as

Iii


TILE TRJANGUL4R DUEL.

;TH E TRIANGULAR DUEL.

the, kind expression. "}Well, well! there's a power of nice
folks in the world, and I'll happen get me idication somehow."
But Mrs..Deacon had privately made up her mind to retain
the services of. handy Sonsie. Her brisk and willing hands
turned off so much more work than any other girl she ever got,
she hated to part with her ; and she was struggling with her
stinginess to make a decent offer of wages.. She broached the
subject at a low figure, leaving . herself a margin for rise, and
Mary Ann tightened her clasp of Sonsie's warm hand so sud-
denly that it took the impulsive Irish girl a few minutes to de-
cide what was duty. It was soon plain, however - Ruth Blair
lonely, and her weary hands full of work.
" I said-to her, I'm coon to be the little mouse to yez, on that
autumn day when me and Mr. Jan had the little time with Bax
on the hill; and sure she needs me still, wid the heart-breakin'
trouble looking out of her two sweet eyes, and- the baby to
mind," thought Sonsie.
" I can't leave me mistress, ma'am," she answered.. "I know
her ways, and I suit her; and I'll just stop on wid her."
Mistress !" spoke up Dame Williams, in disgust. "That
blacksmith's leavins don't pretend to hire a help, I hope ! What
wags does she pay jou?"
"So much, ma'am, that I'm all the time deep in her debt."
"The iandsakes alive ! Well, I'm glad she's so flush. I hope
she gets her money like an honest woman. Probable Blair
knows why.he run off and left .her.-, Such a stuck up piece as
she is!I and nothing but an ornery school-ma'am, neither, be-
fore she got one of our hands for husband."
" Oh mother, don't !" sobbed poor Mary Ann; ''you kill me.
Oh, dear, I'm-,a dreffgilwicked sinner - Ip"
" There,-there.! Miss Mary, dear; don't be talkin'.i She
knows, and we know, and God knows, and that's -enough,"

whispered Sonsie, stoping over to arrange the sick girl's shawl.
"St -st ! your pa is coming up the wok. Wipeup your eyes,
and don't hurt his kind heart wid yer sorrowful fce. He'll
stop along wid yefor a couple of hours, while I get merun."
The question of going was;dropped for the present. The
Deaconess tramped off to hurry up Nora, and Mary A nobeyed
Sonsie, and settled herself for a good, quiet, cheerful talk with
her father. She. was convalescent now, and- exceeding gentle
and patient. Indeed her nurse complained that she "didn't
make trouble enough to pay a girl for setting' up to her." She
was fond of reading Christ's life, dand silently thinkingabout
Him afterwards. She had some knitting pins, and was raking
table-mats, ,which were (she said) for Sonsie's housekeeping;
but a few rounds were enough to tire her weak fingers  She
had got a couple of letters-from Filer,full of newsabout Christ-
abel Goldsmith and praises of .her;i and she kept them under
her pillow, and said nobody in the world was ever so good to
her as Christabel and Filer (poor red-nosedJiler_ 1the little
floating teacher, at Rosenbloom, where she had been so ill and
so unhappy), ,except her own, very awn Sonsie."
But Sonsie could be spared quite well now ; and so she was
going to have what she loved of all things,-a gong&amp;walk.
She had not grown thin or pale with her nursing  shehad
learned the laws of health; too well for that thanks to Ruth
Blair's teaching and her own good sense appleation; andshe
never failed to take her exercise and her cold bath every day.
The Deaconess looked sour about the use of her var isKed
bath-place, wh ch, though elaborately fitted up, was .ept for
show; the chi drgn performing their scanty ablutions in the
"sink-room," under the, pump, and.,. the,, Deacon g ti.g a
weekly dip at the barber's shop. His wife said she didn't "want
the new oilcloth and things all nastied up with water sloping

0

X05

10A4'


16    TH. TRI GULRD L.TRIANGU

rotid."' Sonsie was determined; and she had Dr. Jenkins to
help her.; and her cheeks were like damask roses. Mrs. Eagan
wanted to; have her turn up her purple-black hair into' a comb,
but shewould keep it cut'short; ad it curled in glossy rings
all around her clear, milk-white face. Among other accom-
pli h ets, sheihad picked"up the use-of Ruth's sewing-machine,
and the green hood she wore"wasluilted from bits of silk that
g~o friiidgave her; and her blanket-shawl was a thick, warm
on&amp;-: she bought 'itwith peach-meats strung on threads, for
which Ir 'Jenkins gave her a dime  hundred. Mrs. Veder,
soiiehoWheard that she 'was collecting-them, and she sent
her   couple-of bushels of pits.  Her people were drying the
fruit," 'she said, "nd ahe hoped Sonsie wouldmakeout allf she
neded." Mrg.Captain Slocum   Dulcet Pettibone that was--
whl had -afine house of -her dwnnow, aM  plenty of every thing,
sent hera couple of'stout dresses for Christhas; and the rest
of her:thilggs she had gathered' up inathousand thrifty ways;
and she managed to look-tdy and comfortable. Mrs. Growing
gaveher a last-year's velvet bonnet trimmed with showy lace and
feathers ; and Sousie triedit ofn arnd had' a Merry laugh to her-
self before the mirror'; and she listed and danced with spring-
ing motion all over the'rdom greatly to Pigeon's amusement,
before'she put it away in her "old oak chest."
i'lniverge fin, my blessed little dove"of a Pigeon till I'm
dacin ," said 'she, htgging'him, :breathless and 'rosyafter her
e ercise. "Maybe,then, I'll trig up the 'sniart velvet, "wid the
feaier. Till then, a Warmi hud becomes me best. Shithrust
her hands into nittens of  her own knifing as vhite asi fleecy
cloud, andher trim feet into shoes which shg got at half-price
for binding, and she stepped off briskly and bright.
Sabrina Bradshaw had promised=her somie books" aInd she
fdtittelymet Pauline and Gracie out in their donkeycart

just as she turned off Gonecusset Street, who told;her the young
lady was at home ; so there was success at the end of the
errand.
The building-committee came out of the new  church, Fnd
Jan Vedder stopped to shake hands and inquire after her
patient ; and he looked narrowly at the wide-awake girl, and
begged her to take good care 'and keep  vel
"Never fear for me, Mr. Vedder," she replied, laughing;
" I'll live to ate the baked pig at me funeral, I'm that ft of
health. Don't let me be kapin' yer from yer good work  and
whisper, sir - I'm minded to tell ye a good verse I heard about
a kirk. I got it by heart on purpose for you. You see thefolks
there they begin a gret big church (much like yon that you're
busy with), and they hadn't noney enough to make it nite and
complate ; and they held their meetings intil it. It began to get
shaky and looked old-looking; and their minister he thought
he'd read 'em a little party hymn to set them a thinking !
Except the Lord 4oth build a house,
The builders build in vain;
Except them men do finish it,
'twill tumble down again.'
I hope you will stick at your house Mr. Vedder till 'tis all
done."
"You may be sure I shall; Sonsie; i always pursue ry
undertakings till I succeed, you know, You shall sing ithe
choir before next June."
" Don't be talking, Mr. Vedder," answered she, turning
away abruptly  "I'm Sonme Nagan, an Irishan, front County
Ulster, sir !"
"And I'mi a Dutchman front l-ottendani Sonsie; but we'lf
both sipg in the choir for all that.1'
"Thrie for you, sir. And, by the same token, your fa there

TIDE TRIANGULAR DUES.        107


THE TRIANGULAR DUEL-

wa an estated gentleman, while mine was a poor weaver, born
in a shealing."
"Sonsie, Sonsie ! said Jan, impatiently, "how exceedingly
unpleasant you can be sometimes!"
She looked at him half-roguish, half-sorrowful.. "Just wait
till I've me idication, sir," she called out, over her shoulders, as
she walked proudly away from him. They had many such bits.
of tak and-with similar results.
 Jade's face was exceedingly sober and a- little downcast after
he had parted with the Irish lassie, who stepped briskly on her
road, thinking somewhat about him and more about her plans
for getting the idication she was so fully resolved to have.
Sabrjga.Bradshaw wasvery kind, and gave her, in addition to
the books, a bueh of fresh flwers, and some. excellent advice
how to read; all of.which kindled a perfect gl ow of gratitude in
the fervid breast, so impressible to fall emotions and so grateful
for kindness; and after a burst of thanks, which made Sabrina
smile, she bade her adieu and hurried away.
Down by the drive-way she came upon the gardener clipping
the Irish yews; and she stoppedand gathered her apronful
of the slender twigs, and carried them to the Horseshoe ; and
Tbegng someyarn of Ruth, she wound a crosslet and a wreath
for the lonely grave in the corner of the old burying-ground,
whose only mark was a rude wooden crux his widow had
railed together and planted at the head ; andaf ter a .ittle frolic
with Pigeon, who begged her to come back, to him, she started
again, feeling how much she had gotten out of her afternoon,
both for her oWn pleasure and also for the ears of the sick girl
shut up at home-;
It -vas guite darik wher she neared the graveyard; and the
wind blew keen and sharp, and she gathered her shawl as closely
around her arms as she could and safely hol4 her love-offerings.

,THE TRZ4NGULAR DUEL.

100

She scarcely noticed a couple of objects close to the fence, as
she hurried in at the open gate, nor a cord drawn across. the
posts, about two feet front the ground; just high enough to
trip any passer's feet ; and she fell prone upon her face before
she could free her arms. A coarse wheezy laggh greeted her,
and stifled cries of "St-boy! chaw 'e, Plug 1" ungled with
low vicious growling. She knew that Bax nWilliams and his dog
were her neighbors, and that she was the victim of one ofthe
rough jokes his soul delighted in ; but she troubled herself less
about the well-matched pair, than for the safety of her precious
greens ; and she struggled to get clear of her shawl and rise
without breaking them;; but, urged on by his master, whose
hatred of Sonsie overcame his cowar dread of consequences,
the powerful bull-terrier sprangaupon her andheld her 4own,
and seized her shawl and worried it. Sonsie felt his breath 'on
her neck, and' her heart stoodstill for a, econd, $h  seen
him tear down an ox andhold him by the throat ti he was
beaten off with clubs.
Bax Williams had never forgotten the scene at the old
stumps, nor the beating he had got and hecouldnt pass
Sonsie in his mother'shouse without curses and foulness.
"You're faster nor that ,old tom-cat was in the trap" aid
he, clapping his hands. "Hold her, Plug - ehawy her!,
His ferocious bad temers were warming like snakes round
a fire, and he had a cruel devil inside of his ugly body. So sie
dared not stir; f  t every move she made, the dog growled
and set his teeth firmer; and there's no knowing how near
it might have got to murder, if Rainbow and Flirt had not
been out for a little stroll. Flirt knew that her friend Sonsie
was abroad, although sihadnot seen her;-and she was follow-
ing her trail,, her black muzzle close to the ground, and barking
conversational little barks to her comrade occasional. anut.
10

108


.TIE TRIAMGUILAR Dt7EL. 11

Rainbow was the first to see the Irish girl, and his eyes gleamed
with gteen fire; and his tail got tremendous when he espied also
his detested eneny. And while Flirt dashed gallantly at the
brutes tiroat, he stuck his nails into his flanks, and clawed and
bit, and spit, like "forty cats all rolled into one," and Plug
was gladcto leave: his hold rind defend himself from the allied
lowers'; and1hi-e"triangular'duel" begin good earnest, the
two dogs rolling over in close fight, and'the cat worrying the
rear }andi ax kept hoppin  .bout, bestowing kicks upon Flirt,
trying to catch Rainbdw by thetail, or get a clip at his head.
Sonsie sprang to herfeet and called and shouted at the top of
her voice, ear andringingas an Alpine lrn. Though she
ha  got a cut onbier lip, from which the blood was trickling,
and a bruised nose, already the ,ize of fournoses, she had no
notioof ab'andonrifnger favorites, in such hands. She need
not have feared'for Flirt, either: Jan Vedder said she was made
up of colley and-Newfoundland, with a strain of iastiff blood to
give her steadiness ; and she would hold on like grim death'
when once her blood was up., Flirt was a noble creature. She
despisedPlug's favorite ganie,' flying at little dogs and break..
ing their "legs; but sheivotldtake no insult for herself or her
finds ;.:andshe just laid her skill t the duty of whipping the
surly bulldoghandsomeiy and her stubborn enduranceiqualled
his, While her colley blood gave her vastly the advartage ;
for she put such sprightliness and variety into her attacks, that
the heavy, sullen iddrsary was bewilkered- and lost his head.
They were in the thick oflit,- Flirt giving tongue occasionally,
with her deep, mellow voice, and keeping persistentlyat her work,
- when who should cone tearing along but Jan Vedder. He
was already entering Daisy Meadow, dhinvaylhome, thinking
over Sonsie's last, when her clear voice cut the still air, and the
pinnacle threwback the echo. He knew instin ctively the tone:

he remembered the first time he heard it, and 'the talkwhich
had followed, sittiig on the mossy 'log. It had changed his
life; and he made speed like a champioi " runnest," till With
a last spring, he stood on the battleground, among the combatt
tants, and Sonsie welcomed him with a little push.
"Oh, do stop them, Mtr.Yedder! make Bax call him off.
My poor Flirt will surely be killed; and there's Rainbowtoo,
-he's init !"
Before Jan had timte to interfere, Plu had got enoughind
limped away, the blood streaming front his:lips and onde marin
shreds; and his master, 'seeiig his plight, and the new aly in
the field, made haste to sneak after him. He had had some
little revenges for his whipping, suchas killing off a whole
brood of Spanish fowls,'whichid cost Jan nearly:heir'weight
in money, and poisoning a beautiful black andawhiteIish et.
ter, whose intelligence and tricksere fanous;buthe hated
and feared him still.
When they'were gone, and Flirt sat'down to lick her wounds
in a most methodical and businesslike' manner, she' tried up
her bright, mild eye in giswer to Jais praise, and experienced
the pleasant consciousness of hinng"acted well her part."
Sonsie felt her shawl carefti id wiped off the slaver.
"The dirtY beggar!" isai she; he's gone and'put a hole
into me precious peachi-neat, besites'trampin' on me greens.
"Better there than' in your ish;Sonsie!'"said Jan,laughing.
"You take the brate's attentions coolly, upon my word .'
"It wasn't pleasant, Mr. Vedder.  His hot breath just
scorched up me courage, sir ; but I came safely off, thanks to
Flirt and Rainb'ow, You never in your life saw any thing like
the way the two pitched into the wicked brute. Good dog,
Flirty ! come here, Rainbow, acushla ! I'll have to bear you on
me two arn, and let you see me set up me greens; and quick,

1f0         T,  TRIAN aL4R DUEL


112         TJHE TRANGUL4R DUEL.

tooa for Miss lMary Ann 'ill be fretting for me long stay. Don't
hinder yourself with us, Mr,;Vedder; thetwo 'ill see me safe
home, when I've been to me grave up yon in the still corner
and I've niver an enemy at all but the two just fled, and they've
enough to-night, I think."
"But, Sonsie, I can't leave you here in this eery place. I
must come along and take care of you: you are only a weak,
defenceless girl. You make less of me than that dog."
Sonsie laughed. "An' is it 'defenceless,' sir ? 'Tis a brave,
long word ;I'll remember to use it meself. But sure I couldn't
think of takir' up the- precious time of such a fine gentleman.
We poor gis learn to 'fend for ourselves; though, 'tis true for
you, Mr. Jan, you've been a kind friend to me and Rainbow in
our troubles  Many thanks for that same 1"
Jan's face clouded over. She was-so independent of him-
he was not.in all her thoughts;. but he lifted her flowers and
walked by her side, and helped.her arrange her love-gifts.
twas many months before Sonsie went again to the grave,
.and then she dropped her flowers and fell on her knees. You
would have, had wet eyes,-ti know, if you had seen hers, so
lustrous, violet-deep were they ; so full of passionate joy; so
brimming with tears which rained down her crimson cheeks. A
simple crux of white marble replaced the rude wooden cross
she had left, and her faded yew wreath lay at its foot ; the
grave wasall turfed and rounded,,and a wlite rose sprung and
bloomed from the centre, but that was - well, I must not get
ahead of my story.

14

"CONFESSION IS GOOD FOR       4E SOUL.     113
CHAPTER VII.
"CONFESSION IS GOOD FOR THE SOUL."
HE next morning Sonsie dressed her patient, "by easy
stages," and dressed her carefully ; and during all her
brisk stepping about, putting things to rights, the poor
girl's eyes followed her motions in meek patience; though she
did not know the bit of fun which was twisting the corners of
the ripe mouth she watched into such mischievous dingples,
she smiled faintly sometimes through her anxieties.
Sonsie had been out gathering sorrel for the bobolink that
morning; and coming into the yard, with her hands full, she
stopped a moment to look at a picturesque charcoal-man, who
was coming through the gate. He had given himself a fierce
mustache, and brigand eyebrows, with his talley-coal, and wore
his old hat with a wild slouch, and pealed - out his cry in such
musical tones as proved the pleasure and pride he had in his
rich voice.
Mrs. Williamsimmediately flew at her favorite amusement,-
cheapening and drawing a hard bargain; and Sonsie loitered
long enough to hear the final agreement. He was to give-the
coal for twelve cents, put it in barrels, and hea them up.
Going down afterwards, with her broom (which must be hung
on A particular nail behind the door, on pain of death), she
foundtihe Deaconess boiling over, and scolding a blue streak.
The sunning wag of a peddler had turned the barrels upside


114    "CONFESSION IS GOOD FOR THE SOUL."
down, heaped the heads .scripture measure, and left for parts
unknown, and the dame had got about half a peck of coal on
each cask for her bargain ; and the hearty mirth in which Sonsie
and Nora indulged did not assuage her wrath.
The kind, sympathetic nurse soon forgot her amusement,
though ; for Mary Ann began to talk about her coming trial;
and she set herself to inspire her faint heart with courage to do
her duty bravely. It was a phase of character she could not
'understand ; because her first impulse was always to spring to
any task she saw before her, and confess and repair any wrong
she had done ; and a little something akin to contempt mingled
with her pity for the invalid's weakness.
"She'll despise me dreadfully, wont she, Sonsie ? " said
Mary Ann, for the fortieth time. "I know she, will. It was a
proper mean trick. I'm sorry. I'd be willing to " (she turned
over in her mind the greatest sacrifice she could make)-"I'd
,have all my hair pulled out by the roots if I could get back
the minute I did it in. I would, truly. . I ought to be willing
to let her despise me, I know."
"Indade and indade, she'll do no such thing, Miss Mary Ann.
Ye were but the handle to the shovel, anyhow ; there's no oc-
casion to feel so 'about it. Miss Ruthie is- far too good and
sweet to hate anybody, even the bloody villian of a Belle Bran-
don hersel; but ye needn't go just to-day, unless ye feel ripe
for it; we'll drive around a bit, and come back home, if it likes
ye better."
"No, Sonsie ; I'll go to-day. I shall feel better when it is
over."
"Yes,.mavourneen, 'confession is good for the soul.' Our
priests tell us that, sure. They lane us of every thing, and
le1ss us up s good as new."
"'But it isn't good to confess to them, Sbnisie. The Bible

"CONFESSION IS GOOD FOk THE SOUL."           116
says, ' Confess your faults 'to One another.' They can't give a
true blessing."
" And they are one another ! aren't they?" replied Sonsie,
laughing.
Mary Ann did' not feel strong enough for an argument with
her sharp nurse, but she privately thought she'd speak to Mr.
Growing about it, and went back to her own trouble.
" You'll stay close by me, wont you, Sonsie, and keep 'hold
of my hand, and let me lean on your heart ? You're not afraid
of folks ; but then you never did the awful things I went and
did that time. Oh dear ! "
"Miss Mary Ann ! " exclaimed Sonsie, pausing with the
hair-brush in her hand,"and gazing reproachfully 'upon her weak
charge, "how can-yez.be always forgetting yer promise to Mr.
Growing? "
"I wont, Sonsie dear, I wont ; don't be hard with me. I
feel so bad," said Mary Ann, wiping her eyes. "I want to be
good. I think God has heard my prayers, and I hope he will
forgive my sins."
I'm sure of it'! " answered Sonsie, stoutly. "-Don't it say in
the Bible, up to siventy times siven? 'Come, come ! let me
freshen ye up now, before the top of the morning is all shaded
over.
Ruth Blair was gentle and kind to'the penitent, and took her
in her arms and kissed her; but the interview cost her a sleep-
less night, for she had to go over' all the past, -her follies and
her wrongs.
That evening Sonsie' presented herself to the Deaconess.
She had take ialeave of her young lady, and her eyes=were
rather red, 'and hevoice had not quite"its:nsiialonfdenttone.
"1Well, ima'am,1I'll-be leaving' ye tiiiht. Miss-Mary Ann
can do very well for herself, and I mustn't stop here any longer"


11   - "CONFESSION IS GOOD FOR THE SOUL."
"Very well:, go!" answered Mrs. Williansrt ly, all her
efforts to retain "the girl having been unavailing. "Here's
your wages,-a dollar and a half a week. I could'a' done all
the nussin' myself! Just like pitchin' money into the road!
The Deacon is such a fool 1"
Sonsie looked at her, and up went. her arms on to her hips,
belligerently.
"Good nurses get six dollars, ma'am ; and I'll leave it out
with Miss Mary Ann if I am not just that ! Dr. Jenkins of-
fered-me eight to go into his hospital. It was the Deacon's
self that engaged me, and I'll look to him for me pay, thankin'
ye kindly for yer dollar and a half."
" Six dollars 1 Six fiddlesticks ! Why the minx is crazy as a
lunatic I Let me ketch the Deacon a-stickin' of his nose into'
the honsekeepin', I'll give him psalm-tunes, particular metre !
You just take your money and trot right off."
Sonsie looked at Mary Ann, frightened and troubled, and
kept her temper.,
"Don't be onaisy, mistress-; I'll not be meddlin' with yer
Deacon; though he's a kind, easy man, and he's got an eye for
a bright cheek and a trim foot, if he is a deacon. I have a
great respect for him, especially since-'I've noticed how good
and clever he was to his sick girl-as tinder as-a woman; and,
'tis- rue for you, I. know some women, not a mile off, as hard
as a brickbat entirely" (her voice keye4 itself up on the pecu-
liar falsetto she always used when excited).. "'Tis not a pile of
yer dollars 'ud a kep me in the house wid yes, only for this
dear young lady. 'I've done enough scrubbin' and cleanin', let
alone the sewing ye gotg to com off the it and sup I've swal-
lowed and Miss Mary, acushla !Fyer heartily welcome to all
me aring ; and 'l' come again, whiniver yez have a need for

"CONFESSION IS GOOD FOR THE SOUL."          11
Sonsie picked up her bundle once more, and left the Dea-
con's house, with hard words for her parting 'ft.
Bax and his dog were lounging at the gate.
"Good-by, Master Bax; and sure ye'll be glad of the news
I'm tellin' ye.  I'm goin' to leave ye," said she, pleasantly.
"But yer dog didn't fight as good as he used those timds; did
he,now?"
" Hold your blamed jaw, or I'll set him on to you neow !1"
was his amiable reply.
"Ah, Bax, me boy ! if dirt was trumps in your gane, what a
hand ye'd have, to be sure t" reti rned Sonsie, glancing with
merry eyes over her shoulder at the slouching, sullen young
reprobate, as she pushed the iron gate clanging after her:
" Au auf ! and 'tis a fine thing.to know the learning!" she
continued to herself. " That good shot I.got from MissRuthie
readin' it out of a nice funny book. I must have the idica-
tion somehow!"
She drew her shawl close. "We're going to get some bad
weather, I'm sure.  Those geese jumpin' into the water an'
poppin''out:again are not:oneasy for naught. Mary McCross's
peacock is screaming hisself hoarse; and look how the wood-
peckers coo-coo,' as mournful'as;a funeralhymn; and there
goes the swallows clear out of sight. They never fly that high
but whin we've got to have a stone. Sire there'l b
trouble up yon at the Deacon's, --that I know.Ih
dream of a white-robed lady last night  I dreamt of h
fore me poor handsoine father wdahurted; and she ame to
me with a babbyAin ihe arms theday 'little:Mally died. ol
lowed her thrduh muddyfwater up to me knees that wekk
Miss Mary A ni was tooksick; and no , last iiight° She &amp;tme
to nme agaiii ad beckoned nme toanhuchyard ; and[ tumne
\bled abdie -wniade grave. I donkho' what the trbbe


$        MARY ANN AND; THE DEACON.
is; ut I'm Isure 'tis coming.  Well, well ! Poor girl ! she
isn't strong to fight the sorrow. If 'twas the, auld dragon, now !
Small loss'!"
Sonsie paused in her soliloquy, to watch a dead leaf flutter-
ing on the tall tulip-tree before Christabel Goldsmith's window.
"The tone red leaf, the last of its clan,
That dances as well as dange it can,
Hanging so light, and hangings high,
On the'topmost bough that looks up to the sky.
" Miss-Chris, darlin' ",(kissing her hand to the empty window),
" I thank yez for that pothry. I seem to hear yer sweet voice
still saying it to me, the daywhen you fetched over the babby's
new clothes, and showed me the maple wings.     Ah i! and
sure it suits me entirely tobe amongst the people that talk
knowledgeable. imnegd te idiatio /"
CHAPTER VIII
MARY ANN TAKES THE DEACON INTO HER CONFIDENCE.
IDON'T supposethe Deacon's wife noticed much
chnge in her daughter aftr. hed sickness. She had
always bheen passively obethent, .nd her manner
now wagentleness itsel; but her: fh wasonscius of the
di rpcet;he ik-rocn4ays and sickroo     prayerstook
hl sof  m. There weretirmes, when he fef;sif he could
takeaMr.   owi-g intomhis arns and hg hip., }Ie knew only-
one wayo toxpress tndens,- to give4lji spegl  ; and
the chest of tea and barrel of flour which the Gonecysset por-

MARY ANN AND THE DEAO

ter left at the parsonage were. so many hugs from the grateful
Deacon. He never mentioned them to his wife, however;
nor did he think it needful to.speak of the thousand dollars he
handed him as his church-subscription.
The warmth and glow of Mary Ann's newly-kindled lamp
shed its radiance over her home and lighted up the Deacon
and the children with its friendly gleam. A thousand tender
actions, pretty attentions, gladdened the father's heart, and
made the hours spent with her cheerful and agreeable. She
brought his Bible ; and she found the hymns . for him, and
chose a place close to 'his side in the family devotions-; and
though her voice was thin, and a little sharp, the weakly good
man loved to hear it ; and he had to wipe his glasses ,'some-
times, after the tune was finished, and clear his husky throat for
the prayer. Though he still wandered through mazes of uncer-
tain English in his petitions, and." 'ena'most hoped and feared,"
and mangled his scriptural quotations, he enjoyed the exercise,
and got help out of it. He prayed;- and I have no doubt Sa-
tan had plenty of ague-fits; because "he trembles when he sees
the weakest saint upon his knees." Not all the twitches and
slaps his wife bestowed upon the helpless children, nor her loud-
voiced scolding, -.interpolated and intruded among the exer-
cises, could altogether spoil their comfort ; and Mary Ann soon
contrived to have little Nancy's stool by her; and she coaxed
Tip to sit by his father, out of the reach of Bax and 1ysi;
and they were as good as kittens, and' even helped out the
psalmody with their pipingnotes. True, they strayed hopelessly
from the tune and fugued rather sometimes;"and when the Dea-
con shut up the books and said "let us pray,",there was rush
to see who would kneel first ; and they watched zealously for
his "Amen," that they might spring up, exulting in their ni -
bleness.

I  I  +
'              '  IC
SEE((  t
'       ;    !     ?   f      j   ',  ,
i          j ,, ;
f          .
'     f  t  i    '  j         ,         l
'1    1   ,i
.,                                   ;     '                i,
i   ff
{   I            r
i
'
,
"          1
!  i ,
'        !     Y    '
;;
;,     .,
'f                  -
.                 {1       ',
!(   i          i
r =
R    ,,   .
.                          r   ,       i              'L
',tl

I1    F
I         '    r

,,


MARY ANN AND THE DEACON;

Mary Ann Williams looked different too'- more alive ; and
she put better heart into her daily tasks; and swept and dusted,
and made pastry, and 'darned stockings, all in so industrious,
perfect, and methodical a manner, that the Deaconess glorified
herself greatly upon her system  of fetching ' on her up."
She had a little romance -poor child ! - all to herself. Cyn-
balinus Adolphus called occasionally-oftener, indeed, than the
Deacon liked; and as he happened to say as much to his wife,
one day, she immediately invited him out to "ice cream," which
she concocted herself, out of corn-starch and "'skim-milk," and
kept Mary Annin the wood-house, stirring, all the afternoon.
When the Deacon noticed how pleased his daughter was with
theyoung fellow, and. how she chatted and smiled, he tried
har d to find some trustworthy qualities in the poor fop, with his
silly conundrums, his crush hat, and his glass, which it made him
dizzy to use ; but he could not like him, - and he proposed to
send the girl to -school for a twelvemonth, thinking to get rid
of Cabby in her absence ; but his helpmeet. came down sharp
and told him " to stir his stumps and find out how much money
old Brown was w    ;uth" and he Was forced to report thous-
ands; and then he was comnianded to "hold his tongue and let
things wag," and more to the same purpose, but all equally
choice antd elegant, and as full of exquisite riiotherliness ; and he
was glad to abandon his idea and rush off to his Gonecusset
office, as to a stronghold and tower of defence.
Mary Ann had some 'hours of quiet happiness too. The
Horseshoe was always open'to her, even when it was shut to
brighter 'folks; 'and she used often to be there. In Ruth's
school-hours she helped Sonsie mend .her clothes, and showed
her' all sorts-of fahey kntting and- crocheting, and the like, in,
which she =was rarely' skilful and they two made over gar-

120.

SONS1E DRE AMS OF THE WHITE LADY               21
nents. for the little Faan,.r, asW
and contrived,°'ndc    :,tp  r heeta
She coaxed her father to get her =on*e cotto n  tbd
and Pedlow's and a piece     in
whole 'sets of undergarments for herd
delicate stiches, in such spit as nuns reebrpide{ tar.4 -
She had to work ver hard to get hen  dyPr r sIte    h
birthday, and ay,  in so Muc  secresy  togngkker feel abes
guilty; bu "er father approved and sanctioned her andidard
all the whispered confidences .about the  r,
around her, his bristling beard pricking her cheek, and felt and,
exhibited.a tremendous, though rather benightedier s thte
work. Sonsie "Eagan, the bright, Irisllassie, helda e pace
in the Deacon's regard which was presently to become larger
stilL
CHAPTER IX..
SONSIE DREAM$ OFO THE W  WHITE LADY.
I they brought great apues,costly stone to la the
foundation   o  the  l h e .  nd lom r   ders
and   ir's, builders dihw t m, nd 1            e-
squarers squared them; so they prepared  nberand     to
build the house'if the'L)4" A 4t   new -d1 -OU-
tiful ip  pctteV eWbrate in    fh    Mt.'Grwn     - was
there early aidda tegti    the de                     : l  i
its beauties.  nd;Jan ddea   Pete- Badkaw    r     the
building-ppmu ~ttpe; Md caeal wgte
wit Ctai&amp; $lcu     azd.the old h#ad- Th    reghp ~he
enterprise the force and muscle, anid clear brain-work which
"       ,    -                 .#  c  "i-.";  t  .s .i lia'  :

ii
r
tii1
{
'4['II  1''


1      SONSIE DREAMS OF THE WIHTE LADY.
Young Anierica is accustomed to concentrate upon a favorite
d   SG    ebffIlgesseda          heibe'de3 of putting
sx  odosiiungMr 8G6*igpersisted.            You have
5  i~ie  Dh ti        y  ur'pfee  baid he. "They nust
1  r!M &amp; khS ba dy tr  got mti    the huich" (a strict
rid1Br&amp;4i*.1 dlltihe ~phs swe coin fi- ourselves,
yoiu',3iu  y      is she* them how tard&amp; it."
A~ie W    dflantbe hs  eartf fdungsters, having exuberant
hg    aiidr Z    siinfa,   sur iws  itality  to  gt  rid  of,
slbg#ed&amp;fte W6es 2howB as6etheiihiible 'iisclesand threw
ifi '  y   oe     id        ng with their dispatch of busi-
tera-ffort toget thesite changed
tufa/W.i Briihe ne4o9 ; btas a,gooddeal of the roney
lay   RbarirgRiver-propet, aind the old families positively de-
clined to contribute in such an event, and threatened to split"
off and build for themselves, they had to give in; and the beau-
tiful new structure rose above the old corner-stone, in the lovely
oak grove, which was a 'cathedral of itself. Peter Bradshaw's
energy in the-gocd cause is easily explaminae. Aside from.
his pleasure in fishing any eundertakig, he had a dominant
tife. Imperious little Zoe had fully made up her  ::dc
Wl3liried iWte        bch   t&amp;   the 1u'stb~e
kieibeforfit -altr      r ad  hihdrgot to- be eoniel tted _
flstY  t   p si de56 st;ralztPeerEhad yideka 0f fv i a
l-weM f91F e                                      S
%t~What      have liibw  Jan Wdder. Hisey wgsas,
fr    i h  k   and -Mghie still hunted and twhed and
tbfyernp~ a  wb ".tllthe coumtryiiiholl 'eathers, the sun andswind
c idik  eeiFhe jred ,in isface fi1  the.d+rk irces'be-
ri'&amp;th- Iiii" e s, no lge@Frblo°dshot Which -&amp;msie had con-
tieuitdd iidi more force thin politeness, inher interview

SONSIE D®?(AMSrF i        WIE           -1
by the burningstump sSomtm
girl (who was alsq a - tireless        fig.er' he
he- would keep byher side,     nherry)
their black brows, cling p  tiniles  -er  p
the _,smart-          n_   in   : h: r  an4
provoking the smart retortsfromher we s 1 h
rich zest to their meeting. she, would aoe*bk.
black hair, which she kept inp lace rith a gr
in her utter ignorance of conentioialities  gave
thrusts and plain opinions where others stepe  vevt qd
She was intense -in ,her' nationality; Iish throu  ever  e
with pride enough for a quee  . goo..,hoest pride c  a
a safe armor. Jan polished up lisknowledgeoflrelajd  ite
history, poetry, worship, and scene  Ne found he o  ;4,..
thrall her any time while -.he discoursed o
And though she expressed ecstatic please in the  thi'g
he brought out,--the generous, -weetnelig traits he  iedaed
made history verify for her,--she never cloaked  disgust  d
horror at the treacheryandlies, the p
the drunkenness and brutality-arong theglownt
she knew. But though she inveighed bitterlyaginst therat
self, she would flash up and defend them from al attac  t
was -the hardship and poverty which led then todr    e
priests, who-were alwaysdemanding money, who foicedth  t
be dishonest-. not the Irish blood which was:to.lam
Vixen and Blossom, Flora' and Lion new -d       on
side's voice as readily as theirmaster's RaoboWwool4i
of the whole pack andgwoliidnot rest tifhehal  redht  sa
Flirt tojoin the goodly company. RainbowJwad s-  if'd
the greatest joy in Jan's presence; he jumped diti'ed@ a
"permowed around him, so thatthe hunter was 1pre4 to)  p
his boy'sprejudce against eats, and a cept Soni  beli&amp;W
their gratitude.

4      4
- I
11
4     4
I 1-
It
I 1
4      If
I    I
- I j
I-I

t     L     it     +              ''  .+
!          i                  ,
t     !
+   i        I  I'   J'i       i ,        t7i
i                                 i-_
i                 I  t               '
'  i                    h'   i  "   i
t     1               !    (((2 1
'                       t      h    , ;
'                      '   '           r
'                       i                ,
~ i                            E     :
,              i,,,            ,      ,   ,-
.


124   s    0    E4MSOF THE        W'kTS LDY.
Ja  eiear       eSasi        tedchurchiarchitec-
fan 'Ved'derand' PtrBradshaw studiedchr      acie-
ture with the Rev. ired,onipurpose to be up in their duty as
buiding-comittee anda aiexcelleit steadying process it was
for vr.Jan,    die friendlyassociationhwith Peter, firm as a
rrk nd rie  sthe, was worth everything to 'hint.
There was another active helper,  a 'new' comer in Mill-
vil6e,--Z Who was; as old" Miss Pettingill complained, "drefful
mier ous.  lext the Gonecusset dry-goods store on By-
water Street, there shoun  a bran newsign on the first floor
window, -   okn Nickson' and Co., BankforSavilgs."
The  C o   was avery silent partne. Br i 'John Nickson
was bu   ,liad     and "labitquitous enoiigh for twenty Co.'s.
Captain Slociiin  as iispicis of him  said his face looked
"likealtfer of cold 'victuals."~ I used iany 'times over
1: :Nics irs iineai ntn,'tryingvainly to trace the resemblance,
but coudnt seit  Mis Pettingill's coniment pon his premna-
turely oloiotenaicewasiuch'dearer and more suggestive.
"aw niow helooks"forallthewrldike abakedapple that
haslaidin   oveallifight, don't he ?-kihder grim and puck-
ered uaidId    s lieve sake lands 'with a 'nnuneg-grater, I
declare fdN' ."
"If shehedledithe four turf, tipsy, roaring fellows, who sat
around a litte table 'in"the back office, somie nights after the
iron shutters were'upm and the plate barred in like a tomb, and
the wiskey'bttIs,     hea pndks 'of crds and the piles of
nioney wichthainged' hands,' iernighthe begn able to talk
ranre knin bgly 'alout' the 'cause. 'It is altmost a: pity she
dould'thave  eped shd 'would' so thoroughly have enjoyed
spreading'tihe'iewv    "   "
The odiadesliked" his fanilar, confidential ways, - asking
advic e  "boit his'iin&amp;n, ptaisinigthir"cookifg.  "Tiey  id 'h vw aN
a real honest, good-hearted man. He had not 'been in' 'Mill-

t
i

.AW  SIE D EAMS OF. THE WHITE LADY.      2
ille a month before he knew all the deacons and 1" thegmaiden
ladies; to say, nothing of the widows and young girls. He
drove a splendid pair of horses and was fond oftaking the
ladies ont in his handsome Aheto   eliza phaite
phaen. .    liaEuphem ia: itch+
cock had showed her elaborate tojilette there, several times, and
Susie Jenkins, and Irene Bisbee;and the maternal Hitchcock
was more than pleased with her new acquaintance,and told
"Adeizy Euphemy" "she might go down to Starbird and Pged-
low's and get.all the cotting cloth she wanted right away  to
make up for herself again time o' need."
.The turnout was often standing before Deacon Williams's gate,
and Mary Ann dressed herself under her mother's directions,
as Lady Jane Greygot her parentaltraining; viz., "So sharply
taunted, so cruelly threatened ; yea, presently, sometimes, with
pinches, nips, and bobs;" and the banker found her rather a
silent companion, though she did her.best to be. obediept.
He had been invited to take tea with Mrs. Captain Slocum
in her new mansion, who was ,eseciallfondof entertaining
company and thoroughly.enjoyed her housekeeping; (rare crea-
ture!) and he often walked arm-in-arm, or as Sonsie said,
linking ' him," up. Gonecusset Street with the Rev.: Mr. Grow-
mg. Deacon:Mc'Cross said " for... his paat he was thankful. to
have a man who would take right holt."
His get-up, in dress-coat and.white vest, when.,he joinedthe
church, "upon profession," were much spoken about amongst
the sisters, and, his primrose kids, and patent-leather boots ; and
they wiped their, eyes and blow their. noses . when he gave. in
his experience. There was something truly touching in the
piety of the owner of those horses. And to hear him tell. his
feelings,! (m rather horsey English, someof the)). ,Adeliza
Euphemia could with difficulty control her emotions,
Mr. 'Nickson was a large stockholder in a gcld mine called

E,
1            n
s
,
s,
i

i..
r
1
e        f
r        f
4
!
t
F
r
l
7
f,
i
,r
t       -  i
I i
i
F
f          ;
i
,
!,
,
r,
!  ,
r
'         f  .
'         R
L
j '
,  i
1


*te sfl4" and had fami staiternr  o nhis desk,
bargeg ''omuch, cal so much;" and arnapof the tract, show-
igbn"essary rive rufning through it; and he kept a sam-
Stfum    hich'ewas fod of handling before men's eyes.
er       edatybdytotke stock, hut he talked it up with
Sa vastnamount of enthusiasm; and explained the power of "our
4an        ;dt wih th deacons anidsolid people about the
40Iisri# b re~dence heshould st afoot when the gold began
tafwtoW it  &amp;ndbsttedpositively hisecpectations in a fat whisper
which sounded rich. The bonds and'shares were on 'crisp baik-
erpape ;9nd looked handsomely suggestive, with a beautiful
-p    ptengraving in' one  corner, of a mirier surrounded
iby  ' sools, and in the Other afurnace in full blast; and wagons
darnping the ore, and countless bags, tied up for delivery, and
greatgold figures all over the face, dealing largely in oo's,
which =w re-convincing enough in- themselves to make a man
feel rich in the mere handling.
E quire Hitchcockcouldn't;keephis fingers off some; Deacon
Williams took afew shares; and John Bisbee bought a bond ;
andWidow Goldsmith sent for a statement, in order to examine
iinth privacy of-.her=bed-room; which she -did, after finish-
ing;they seventy-uhird chapter of the "gr eat tribulation," her
favorite portion of Isaiah, -- "But thou art cast out of thy grave,
lias aabominable branch," etc., and her prayers..
Th most successful investment which John Nickson made
hi Millie, arid  which brought -most savings to his bank, was a
Sunday-school enterprise among the Gonecusset operatives. It
t okamazingly. All the: young people enlisted as teachers ;
thee seemed to be a peculiar fascination about these sharp-
1witted wide-awake young Celts, which kept anintense in-
terest in theiork.Te      #pintnAdentsof The reglar schools
conlaiied tht the teachers felt no interest in tir ficivilized

SONSIE DRAMS OF THE. WkITE            Y.    $
scholars; and, ingeed ,the guiafgutief yerse gst
was rather humdrum when conhp+redw  iheJesse'g     en
through periloflife and lirb, yherie schoolg     igef um-
dling thejr hoopsE the.aisle ,9  i$ tpdu4p      gu
the personalities and attire of tear"  g o  11er  a
and gestures with witty penetration
Mr.Nickson hired a ha    thecentre f-Milip: -       t
up ith amelodeon, and b ealsandfun 991
the walls,--Abrahan in a green sho og"et,s4Rg
steps of a two-story mansion, with a  andallrggnd;    d
Sarak in the door wearing a u -cx ap, aan oun4ig ' ys
loped floerpots: the ''were Apo9tles  tap  seve  pngy
colors; arnd some gay mcaps.. He alwys ledpff he sgg i
a voice like  roaring wind; and chose the Qstxolli ing tler
in the "Censor."  The boys said he once gave -hein and-
lord, fill the flowing bowl' the.hymn being adapted their
of that popular drinking song.
Sonsie Eaga n offered herself as ateacher;"utMreNilson
after a stare at herplain. apprelvery nearly turnedup
nose at her.
" Do you, sppose you can interest our; boys? asked he.
Sonsie hadrecourse to;her favQrite attitude wichs
trying very hard, tp forget and east off..
" And who doyou apose can come   near thep oo
as an honest girl, th~at has suffered a( sorggwe4.the s  e. as
them ?  Yoy stand  f Ad  rder/hem.t behavyatheselegj r
put meselfky thpirside. My lgar±, betswid their egt.a
know hgw itfeels to be aesolate nderr. Ad jgsyo  ave
the face to gsk me if I can interest the Irishl boys ? bad pwlgeo
ye, fora1h.^°.loodg4tYankeels                      ".A
, Mr.N   ;kson was notMyspecially  gspwith Sonsies aapa
of putting things, and turned the cold shoulder to her most de

4

 ,       u

r
4
S      "
1-    fi(s
i.
t-
j i !t H 4
1 y   e i
tA ;
f   t' f    ,
r     I    _
l         r
f(

'        t                 rr
i
r                   '      f
I   Ili i                    " i
If'cl'        ,


128    SONSIE DREAMS OF THE WHITE LADY.
cidedly. She was sorry the moment the words were poured out,
hxamste t6 aii e e1einhiliti as in  armemrt.
"1bgferprdiz, Air, I    sure,for sealing al the true
tsi"g: e hare. Idczht iaskto tb et tache the great ones;
v  ty- of-f  a fe  l e1pto, read andsel
WW~eiesleny'ofeite fellows I aney tditatspeli,
in*s#   Nh   dapdote eselt'*
But the banker had no intentionto accept he services and
}'tlilfalong with hi reftsal, wichmnade her bfood
'o_,. erh fihners clench  ether'and &amp; wlkd frgaz-
,z   }i  e 1&amp;    ld:reE M  . .Tickson repeated the inter-
asw4      V4er a a eayitul joke, arid, to his stonishment,
:i tskit  seriusry and  ave him very plain to under-
ins~iik ti i less Sdnsie 'Engan had her wish, he would drop
t fR 6h  enterprie, and added a statement of the exceeding
res tahe enter ined for her, which thebankerreceived with a
"eerad'a dig in the youngest s ribs.
"Sly:&amp;ig t yon know what you are at, P1 be bound!"
Jan was so angry, and showed his disgust soi plainly, that the
baneualed ona ioag face and shifted his ground directly.
He :piately believed Jan-to- be a hyprcrite; but as he had
just attained his majority, and was likely to become apurchaser
of son  " Sprightly," shares, he handled himncarefully He felt
inie hfiinger were itehingbr the specultion; he hadkhad
several talks in the privateoffice, and heted a1 6&amp;itn ; and
the-a iEhadtied to get im to takec  ,   1nfa   Jan
sid 1iei had  lftfmcking; bte      was itreted in the
uhjeitrandmust be iursedAnd so SnsieEagan !s teacher,
and 4*kedIrischdoadkout ii ant  n  the smallragatuffins she
tied to aaie "true  isim:en" o; and the banker was a little
afrai of her s hwaseso sharpsightedso earnest' fnd straight-
forward. The quick-witted, old-headed boys complained that
th ypun    dtldi ietithermisiod flirt wih' ch

I

SQASIE pg4tM        R                         iFD
other  ro,,                     t
sittg with bent head, and crinso  e    1        t
class, whose eyes never',naejredn

murth rm' villas"
Marynn' shuereandm       e norep    l
reproved Sonsie f r e out-spe kn.
x1  a'  g g te                         a2 l

ti      f: R'Y  ; j .,*' ii  -""  '     "  ''   :  79:, ««= . .    !    S i             a*  ,f.4~d' . 'n+ t' sF"k   '  ,1!
nave crawiect u 6n                                                          t 1 1 n sn
pold .5amy, ,IP' t6k h
a se t s  rbt -s_ n6
'a"'  '  " .M     ti1S"   ,r ,)  "!  ,"  {.:.
_- a«,a  4  ,    ..  'err  " ' .fit  r     v .-  41#", i t  'J x
find                    of        our, a iniQn ; n                         tiiMiie .                    e
a *r :  r  r                               r       r'Ftgv kr'i      "'"o;  ,t ,s tiyY'°'  ,?++, _  ' ,#'^   S  ,
".                      ,,;'    ,JJ "  '4  ,   ,d-  ' F ',r  1 +     '!f {     F "k     ", Y j

()

1   111  'I   t         JI     f
t' l
I' I;
r
i    t    r-
1
c,
S
1                         S  r
I        S    If  :
Ir'(r  1   i     11   f, J
11I  Lf 111'          '    I '+Y{),
r Li
If    i
1                           ,#


SO.NSIE DkEAMS OF Ti  WHITE LADY.

kda   ay he's a proper, iceran and dreadful pious. I
hope they'retight, 'm sure!"S
S   e' odd keenly at her quondam  patient. She had
y    ed :ed her;Work, an4 .was pulling :nervously at her shawl--
ring.    or girl  he was longing to confide to her- two friends,
thatshewas afraidsof the banke.; that his hoinyhands made
y   ash seep;taIhiswinks and jdekeystalk wete repulsive
t hir; that he iqueezed her armns and nudged her with his
ebows1andsway generallyiunpleasat in their drives ;. and she
d 1edii&amp;  4*mplain any more to her mother) who told her,
iMn iittbeso squeaniy as-to mind these little things
=iathey was a crtin';'"'and that .she feared and dreaded
ilt  s rbatitey wereitying to force upon her. But shedid
h teIgn;pto she went and learned against Sonsie, and hid'her
f   a~ciff ie fey quiet tears, and went away to her home
S4%h    dofe dit aahing at herheart. She had no idea
of disputing her mother's will, or resisting her arbitrary disposal
i Mt a5pness. She would nt trouble her father with her
Ai'    t 4led ox hinan;kept watch over his wants, and
r  d ' tth  eer.
Sonsie looked after her walking down the street with bent
"Tst I tst I there's treblecoming bfor that poo creature.
I'd my drame again yester-night, of the white lady, wid a mite
d bInnerbest4 and Miss i         ry herself 'dOliowin' after
h  believe is 14i6ng of that Mixum tit her sorow;'11
cmr. uShe   astbe 4h    ttodse off  oI-she  ii w to"home
fe    t c tii*idrthe         Vian ilage her liferout but Cod
helphe     hreyi  iaety eo   akhkearted iknar F Iseent
hir, this very mornin', kickin' his horse till me' blood boiled
ksideine; his poor damnation dogsfeaks out ofhiswifif he

SONSJE DREAMS F TIIE WHITE LADY.

131

but Joks at him,; andto, be.hip wife - - the aby s tsty
u s  ' .!a
"What Sonsie ?" exclaimed Rutht. "Whatkin  fo"
"Sure that'sgwhat they name'   Mis R    ie the  ak
and white fellows, who trot neath_ the. gcoache.  iiedse to
call 'em phum-puddin dogs to f m"e "
"Oh," said Ruth, IDhn nation ' Son ie that ws a fea rul
'ySit wrap, Miss   uthie n tliten ti1Jtel yow -astp f
one I ised to know. .s The boss wver h plum1-r,
who se  o take hisewoepes to the bake slppto  uy  s
bun, and tl4e rogseofakerput him-off wid    tr e   nd
he got mad about it, and  ettegwith  eid he had in
nies, and he trotted off and dropped them down before the
kennel where his friend was tied,; and then he set ±oo} pnd
gnawe4.apart the rpe and let him free andeach one  k a
penny, and. pff the entto te Ohoj an as soon as  emn
offered hin a buneewn  k hi     r Lo      the money
between his teeth, gnd trotted, to the door, and waitt is
friend did just the same thing.  And then the pair of 'ein
barked, and jumped, and lept for joy, and went over the way to-
another shop and got their dinner."
" A very good story, Sonsie; but you must be careful about
names, or people might think yours a case of premeditated
profanity."
Mr. Nickson and the Deaconess had got "very thick together,"
and were laying pipe and pulling wires to accomplish a favor-
ite project ; viz., to get'rid of Parson Growing, whom they could
not manage. They bad sounded the Rev. Dr. Perfect, of Nan-
sook Junction, and ascertained that he was open to proposals,
desiring a larger field of usefulness, and a fatter salary. Mr.

A  .

~iI
'  t  ~t'j       I

i
i ,
1~
,ti,
,t.
i 1 (f,
.'.:11.


132    SONSJE DREAMS OF THE WHITE LADY.
Growing, pondering many things in his mind, had laid up the
aunm.usletter, and kept his own counsel; and abated noth-
ing of his many labors, nor ceased from his fervent prayers.
The "sh of his hei.tt, his.favorite project, *s speeding well:
anhd e looked with  ardnable pride upon it; beautiful within
and without, a tenPle of the living God. It shall be said,
to the credit of the GOneenssets, that they were public-
s*i t    enz_,who did nothitd byiaves. the nw church,
-an Vedder had facetiously named " The Church of the H. l
Seidtirs," Sad sorbe otheragtheoly St.Rofaus"wit-
n    d     fgr then  and liberty were .tey secondedW
R i ,g Ai seriess. And they did al the work, anl took all the
triijubbe  studingg over thie stone-cutters,:lmurryingon the car-
peits andilig p 'their subscrptons as the work grew on
ti         :fin'tarof c    ortal :e t -ng4own Was ruled out
t 6iiee
Th:disconieted faction.would have liked to be id of Mr.
Gr~oisi  bfore dlie dedication but he was not resigning
man;n le'b tdrnieda deaf ear to hints, while his. work was in
prp   ss. his heast was hey 'ote, bu he never flagged.

"MAD DOG I"

133

CHAPTER
r   .5  1  i h d . o  y  t  y tln". ets" -
''"MADD06,+t" '
AX  ILLIAM   with his shoulders t ll hump .up
f       " ,, i ds  blue' as- a" 'hestc l7-w  ki+cldn  his
ee ls againstthepst   th        which ave en-
tranceto th sas gf as                           ere
stuffed dz' in ai          e" et° ,i d '_r oidW fi  a was. l"nz-h,,
over  deers. H   iedaii                          a
ari pdrehis wellished ses                      ter
and was stuffy an z''y in his lireathin". H e revideiitly
waiting   H   e i sleieedga'iMiin
Two or three days previous, Jan Vedder had lost a  baut~
horse, which was9foun at t1b i'. .. 6"'t Sdep . c  ,  withes
fore legsbkead        t    st otterhs
ery. Thoughi Jan su pectedthai]achd szetigtodwt
ity, he ha ot been aeo bnit home t        han co~d
only diser that h   ;liad been se sneatdn  1ouTi thef"u-
pasture  hre adr      was e   andwi    was e   ated
by snaske-fene fron" heI degpf ratial~~t~~n o~~
at the' bottotn of' whicicoursd wa r4.' ta h was ttuid ngver
in his thorghthoMasdrke had cofie'ep to hist sle
how  hie ha3e Arned tie lefith rnsiy saits en [i-rayes
prancingsb and shidrt de ter  h" hadishxent y uit
his opinion of the ed"ble and made up hrh hind to ytt;
and he, Baxr had hni aed,itiffrije tro ndj tct
fasteji  he    itof fintolifs h  asit
10i hc h i                 wa  eaae

i
')        y'S
E       +      i'kf
j} t
. f
1
1      E            f
t       1      f  "r,
i         "   (    i
I
1     1    I
!              t -' t
f      I      .

,f ! y  ;  I  i
J ,  t i j' :F

!  11j1               ' .Z  i +st
!   ..{  ' i  '    'rr       SA i
' !i  !  '      '  ,  f t"
'f ;'i
!
'  !
j,
(        {   ,
i    j    ,;
{   (  l  t     l
"   .
L    j
!           r         I  '
I
'        ;  ,     1f   ' +l
,;
',            .   !
;
'    i  6i
i        ,.-
            !
i      I        !   tj
'[  I
f .
,;_
';     t
.fsl'.i

=
;
'.

i
i.
,    ti
I
'
° J ; ;
%!'' ;d
f i       ,,
3
Y f
s   f   '  .1   i


134

"MAD DOG I"

hung to his heels fine as silk ; and he could see before him, the
frightened, wild eye and red nostril of the beautiful beast, when
the sharp goads struck his flanks, and remember the iun he
made for dear life, and the frantic dash over the fence, and the
rattling of the loose stones, and the look of almost human des.
pair when he rose to the mad leap. Everybody taxed him
with the deed, but he hadn't let it out. He felt cowardly fear
of Jan Vedder, he was so persistent in tracing out t~iNgs; he
wished he had dared to go. down to the maimed cre  .and
pluckoff the goads, ater he was disabled. He did °1- ut
thegoa    and sobs of aony he.ghad to hear were to :terrible,
and, he crouched bask and ran away as fast as he could.
wag waiting; ad .hismeditations were so extremelyun-
pleasant that-he kicked viciously at a stray pig, who was-gunt-
in aalong, withiis nose to the ground, and aimed so well that
piggie ran squealing off on three legs; but still he didn't feel
any better.
Plug had deserted him, and gone to his lair in the stable,
andlay with half shut eyes pttedng a disgpal howl occasionally,
as he got up and turned around and poked about in the musty
straw for ,a fresh place. .Alug was never.especially vivacious, nor
od   tured;and as for .lay- fg in  as th modest form
of recreation he eyer indulged in. .Es+,udty white: coat was
sggshed:gll over with unsightly rscars front the hwer -o foals
he had  ot one nightlwhen   leJrglon feliLown and the
ore-stickparted. Hislool-s)                 Svey pkedn ag-ugly
from the -black. patch it han andis .ears were still sore frpm
the whoesome correction  4 had bestowedponfig iSon-
sits defense., A gh"ief causeof Ba illiams'sjpresent disgust
of'life arosefrom the fact that Pu had refused to b9et upon-
as   red kitten, thatei notad.,Inde oner awnde luedhis
head+ in to the horses pail instead.- Indee, for ,a week huh had

"MAD DOG- 1

185

f,11
' ijI"

been snappish and growly; seeking for hidingin outofthe-
way places; pawing at his throat, as though he had swallowed
a bone. Bax was hanging about the stable-yard with 'a: double
purpose, - to wile away the time in Hans's refined society, and
keep out of his mother'sIsight. le was playing hookey hav-
ing got a flogging at school the day before, for putting a mouse
upon the red-hot stove, in the morning, and so prolonggthe
miserable little wretch's sufferings as' to cause' one tender-
hearted, timid maid to faint dead away. There had been a
scene about it; and he gnashed his teeth when he thought of
the teacher. He woul4 haveliked tQ poison himin  Dipe  il-
iams had vigorous nsles; and she stl plied the raw-hide
upon 'the person of her eldest boy, in such: fashion as' to m ake
him roar for mercy, though he often showed fighting the course
'of the discipline; and the curses and 'foulness:he launchedat
his fond mother were enough to. make your flesh creep. Hans.
had been a sailor, and was a rough-tongued fellow; and, his
sea-tales, were not choice.; biit they pleased Bax, who had a
im notion of running off to sea somie day himself,  especially
erish e  and dweltt lpon after g. severe beating. He was
learning to ,tse his fists, 'too, from Hans; but that accomplished
sailor had gone .down-to the smithy with one of the horses,
and prolonged histy. A company    .Y for laxheaves ig  t,
and he begins to whistle, acoloredwaif, a boy and a brother,
whom-nobody owns, and who lives iibodyknows where; and
has nobody cares what for his fare. He also has a.dog; who
skulked at -theheels of the. wrehed outcast, as: if ashamed
of i ae           an ugly amongrel;.hilf bull, half-cur, all
scars and bruises; and 'as lean and hungry as a-wolf. Bax was
quite fond of this waif's society; ad they-frequezly stole
apples and poisoned cats in' company. 'Idont know e other
as Bax was very much to blame for his choice 'of friends.the

E,
il f1


1$

"MAD DOGI"

good boys who thought much of themselves, got their lessons,
ai 'or'dean" linen, .oud'"inn of hgm. His horews but
a house of' bondage; bare of pleasures, barren of comforts;
where, 'asSousesaid,_r' tie children onl stayed round the
edges  ,No chequers, noainosllowed        ,corn and
molasses-candytabooed, and all frolics and s ort inpunished as
n                           sirlcSteve' Wher d agies'ch dora?"  ax called
ap to :the  i mling waif."
' $e1Vbby_' I, found l hinbi 1, Istea°ed _hniland nebby he
was gito Me. e   ou needn't speer no questions; 'nuf for you
to y'e A W Ii s t  buill fihte randhi ic kourn all to blazes if
y6 tdastott9t  m                              'ut.4
L tick' h  # nryitioft I Ifou want to save u that there
fa o M M4k    ;' v."i- ,  -  p' 4s  ,, a.  y r ''
ugl   i    hd, youbestpucker uj5 tem bluber-lis double
quick'and'Yhistle hi         Yuoff'cause'u Uh chawshim up in about
t e   c a   s"     '  "'      44,;k ? ,/:   riL  t ,F   ,r%. ' 1  - _';        .  :
e his ar1 1c ia6in' your new ish-hne on i t if
y   da ' to, - m ' "cine fiw, there ."'
;+Off,'rl,    l ar.i   rf fY46e dlog clawed to  'twont
tafenbre'n a idnute. fItdxhim ni  Hiere, ?lg' flu
AMhstlud an      led but  n declinedto appear didn't
evn"Vict p hieaggi it"                  e nt into the
sta to"hPIr iNf  St'4b*  iye'c-rJ C              -oilea4na d r-
nf diggg1               nsIa                    h
neirAi n'tis nr oui1e l1ir"rends and "lhreds of staws he
ha, bteftiekih yt4at                     d w
saliai    sndid shaped,         ax thandsad
triod 't6odagi bri   yma    ore.  rIs"i o5  e P4nout,
swe ed ad  liry a id he Stiidc ouV 'his Paws aind bcack
loo0ig chokedl and bwildeied
*Whatheiatterwith that ere dog?       het can't swaller
-,'4

"MAD DOG!"
Swaller !-you hold on,-he allers caw 'em first."
fBax was put ot b Pi  uniisu bakades     nd cfed
and kicked hin savagely.
"What's he got onto his mpioth-  11 iM' eWe whistufe
O " h,e     n      nouid abot hisoutuTh atall right, as
you'll  d out pretty soo     p            t 
Steve sat down on the groundanastoo- 'his cur e/twee  his
knees and began t oui  s had andtwea      earsand
poit out Pl  as a' bitter enemy ;' and ax stood bhiind; the
sick brute, he held by the colla and matrated him n tied
various methods for arousing his courage in 'vain; f r he
dropped sleepily in his tracks, with his tongue out, the moment
he was left to himself.
"Stir! ye blasted sneak, or I'll get a lub to youa!"
Bax dug his fists into the dog's hot nostrils, and he opened
his filmy eyes, and made a, snap at theboy's hand, gnd set his
teeth into it, and the bones runched in his grip. It,was hard
work to get it away fromhim, and Master Bax howled and
yelped with pain and rage, and looked about for a weapon.
The brute staggered up, and set off on a blind run down the
road, with his tongue out, and greenish foam dropping from his
" That'ere dog is clad !." said Steve in ascared whisper.-
"He aint nad, nother,'no more'n you's mad yourself! Dogs
don' t go mad in winter-time!" yeled Bax.
But he turned ghastly white beneath his freckles and dirt, and
dropped the axe he had seized in his brutal fury,
"I'll bet a puppy on't! Folks best keep out of his way,
Iell you!  I. 11oll to his heels, and find out anyhow, 'fore
he bites 'somebody."
Steve started full trot, keeping close tothe fence, ready to
escape at. a minute's'notice.i 21ug Wvent down the road irn a
12*'             "

1v2
Ivt  f
H'E±f~rt

I 4'

I

S
3{ '
IS
!ff r.
E,
4
ir
i:' ;,
i ,


straight course,fadingtoward the open country. Jist at the
corner of Proddy Lane, he met Hans: riding home fromthe
smithy, and snapped at the' horse as he passed, who shied out,
and so escaped his death ; and Hans, who had .taken several
drinks to beguile the waiting, came nearlsing his seat, and
was much put out, and explained his feelings to the animal in
thick Duch English and random blows,  Plug had gone labor-
:. on, straight through a flock 6f geesewho fled squealing in
all directions;- he kept the middle pf the road, and ran blindly,
heeding nothing.
Sonsie Egan had a basket on her arm full of turkeys' eggs,:
she was going to try her hand at raising some poults, and had
been over to Mrs. Captain Slocum to get the eggs and the di-
rections; the first, she paid for in knitting, and the second,.she
received with many thanks, though she knew very nearly as
much about it as her slim little teacher.; being carefully ob-
servant of every thing which came under her keen vision. Dul-
cet, though a thrifty, careful housekeeper, would gladly have
presented the eggs to Sonsie ; but that lassie had ideas of her
own on the subject, and was positive:
" I can hold up me head higher, ma'am," said she, if I pay
me way."
The Captain looked at her, and thought she held it plenty
high enough ; but he gave tongue to one of his pealing "haw-
haws," and remarked, -
"Quite right, my girl ! Independence is about the ticket;
but, you see, Miss Slocum she likes to hold her head up too,
and she can't unless she squares her bargains handsomely for
all she gets. And, by the way, Sonsie, I've got a pig,  I've
got lots of pigs in fact, -but this little black feller is an or-
phan; his mammy died and left him, Sonsie. to squeal alone.
' His hope is cut off, and his tail is as a spider's web.' I'll make

t"MA.D6DO1V1

139

him over to yo, Sonsie. He's a dreadful responsibility, and
he draws too much upon my sympathies. You shall take him,
and fetch him up carefully, and I'll pay you for your kindness.
The apple-parings, and pumpkin-rines, and sich, that you have
over there to Miss Blair's, '11 fill up his skin as slick as a
mitten; 'for who can eat, or who else can hasten hereunto
more than he?' and when he's fat, UI'l buy him of yo i.
Sonsie's eyes twinkled. The oddity of the statement tickled
her sense of fun, and she readily consented to adopt the orphan.
So she was taking home the turkey's eggs, and thinking how
Dennis should build a pen for the black pig who was an or-
phan, when she was overtaken by a tall, well-made fellow, with
a soft hat stuck'sidewise on his head, a game-bag slung across
his back, and a Sharp's rifle over his shoulder; his legs were
encased in hunting-boots,'whose red tops reached half-way up
his thighs; and his long strides brought him to -the side of the
young girl, whom he -greeted with very manifest pleasure.
Sonsie Eagan had the deep interest in Jan Vedder which a
warn-hearted -woman always takes in a man she has tried to
benefit, and she was proud of him, too, in a curious, far-off way;
she loved to hear people say, "What a fine fellow he was! what
a hunter ! what a fisherman ! what a good worker !"  She told
him the pig story, and he laughed heartily.
"Why, Sonsie, you'll come .to be a real farmer before you
know it. I've got a poor heifer, who is a lone orphan, you
had better take her, too."
"Thank you, Mr. Vedder ; but Miss Ruthie, she's got a
fine cow of her own, and the two faymales mightn't agree."
"But,. Sonsie, how are you to feed your bonnie black pig?
You'll have to let me send you some corn.
Oh, no, idade, 'sir ;' potatoes are cheap; and me mother
had a fine crop."

ii

I
1
..
- ,

'I       '              41f

}

, I


"'Raw -potatoes! why they'll ruin piggy's digestion"
Very well, sir, then I'll boil 'em, jest till he'll tuck 'em in
wid his fate."
"Jan laughed, and lifted his rifle to his eye.
'j I'vet a great mind to pepper that young bufer " said he.
"I gave him a.dollar, not an hour a o to buy ,cogl for his sick
mother, and there he isr alipg wood off th Deacon's pile y
That's for the kindlins, sir -sure he can t light ary fire wid.
ou  inin,y "                                  "TV d  ' ,
out .kindins " said Sonsie, half in fun and half in earnest."This
is God's world, anyhow. ' The trees. of the Lord are full of sap,
the cedars of Lebanon;which he bath planted.' .Yon ragged boy
is God's creature, and it, does seem, he's gotthe right to be warm
in his Master's world as much as you, Mr. Vedder.".
S".Ratherf st morality, you're ventilating, for a good little Irish
girl, and a Sunday-school teacher at that ! isn't.it Sonsie ?"
" Oh, well rise up in, your wn place, then, and help build
a home,for the poor children; .do your share to putting an end
to tleir sins.',
"       ySnsieyou make me thip1 of a story I read in the paper
this morning. A.fellow who stuttered, said to an Italian, 'C-c-c
can that p-p.pup parrot t-te talk' And the answer he got was:
'uppoge an he no can talk so moche better as dat what you
can talk, I chop him dam headof- .
Ah, ouf! if you worked halfa wel as I speak, you'd be
good for something," returned Snsie coolly, noways disturbed
by Jan's whimsical applications of his st ryof which she relished
the fun.
"I should love to go fishing," saidJa, as the skirted one of
the sparklig little brooklets rushingoversits pblestwlich not
the silver fingered tice-giod could  tpebewitcsubduh
" There, lr. Vedder       thhyWd  th aaid Sonsie pet.
tishly-

"A DOG!"

141

"What tiest
".Why the words you took out of me rhouth. I was jest
going to speak those very thoughts,"
That accounts   replied an,    g smacks is lips;  sweeter
than honey n he honeycomb. I never got such charming
flavor  n many ute  ince  mmy  e. Come, w   go
spear picker by torehig this eveng; you 1 enjoy that,  the
red flammg lght, the dark movfgires, and the profiled
shadows. It will fill your wildIrish soul full of poetic fnies.
"Oh, yes .incourseI could like suc ha pleasure, but I must
stop at home and pick up sone idication out of the boks Miss
Bradshaw has been so' good as to lend me. I am not a drone in
this awful gret beehive.
Jan turned he talk cuiin t thoughefelt the ti ust: :he got
plenty of such.
"Did you ever, ear' ot the river tftey, Sdisie "
"No, sir;butit o6wadike a7nice 1n te9ii rxiv r, sure:"
"It is: it runs through county Kildare, and 'at Sixli, not Fir
from Dutblii, a N i cadeie forced, i;nething like Petri-
fymg Spring, you know, and the waters tumble over a great sharp
rock.             &amp; Z  : m 7  isai  e i'e ' the fall, whitMeans
" Salhirn Sei "T' h taytdRI''enh' nitries 6 go~up
the river Mithat , he;'psh nld fhistanirihis eetoifror-
der to #assthe i'1ia rd it not pry en  gl hfhldsato the
baskets; whi ith efah      lar      y d  6ih th t irny orne'
"Thatn     In  att gh,  didii    -{"t ki+ g  edva,,tag_
of the poortb;bdPta          $tesiestory.:1se  to  e the
clear at    t   ,it  +i'od rfk     Telitsn" mre,
} "oay'ii ff             i    iatde:slower.
gg                                s  ket; iere he 'had
craftily hidden it, in expectation of such a request.

,
i
'''
',
'"r

SOT! a
'             t     7' ftdt    ; .
r               {   i;
j                        i

(+
j     i
f
i
r     ,
j
i ;
I+
t.
i     (  "  '
1
4     a,
i,
i
I
'
,',i
,           (    i
;
;     (.
6       Ei   i
'    ,  ,
(;    f
.,
t     i.     :
;' i
t '
,
,;  :
}     i,
i                :
i
I. is
1    (     '     '

I


"M4D DOGI"

"MAD DOG!"

"This is a book written by a very learned man, named Good.
He was an English priest, who passed many years in Ireland."
(Jan reads).
"'The Irish are witty, warlike, and remarkable for the just pro..
portion of thei- limbs ; their flesh and muscles are so supple that
the agility they possess is remarkable. They are a nation greatly
to be praised for their strength of body, and for a greatness of
soul. They are prodigal of life, hardy i bearing fatigues, cold,
and hunger ; courteous and kind to strangers; constant in their
love, and in their hating also; seldom forgiving injures, too cre-
dulous, greedy of glory, quick to resent insults."
"Very nate !" said Sonsie, with her head up. "And now
what does the reverend father say about the women? 'r
" I don't see anything intarticular about the women, Sonsie ;
the description I read you includes them, I suppose; but Sir
Francis Head tells us, " there is in the Irish female countenance,
an innate modesty more clearly legible, than he ever saw it in
any other country."
" That's true for yez, sir. Ye might say it and tell no lie at
all."
"I could say it of one Irish girl I know, at any rate, but I'm
afraid she's not pure bred: these are the. native or pagan Irish
of whom I have been telling you ; bgt in tie north, there is a
strain of Spanish blood. Perhaps that's where you got. your
black. hair, Sonsie. It is a matter of history that Spain and Ire-
land were close together, in the old days when Spanish galleys
rode the high seas ; and anybody who has been about Galway,
knows that through all Connemara, there are plenty of Spanish
remains, both in dress and feature, and much architecture that is'
purely Castilian.. Lynch's Castle, for instance, that I tramped
over, has wide entrances and arched galleries; stone uilioned

148:

windows, and outside staircases ; mayhap you're no true Celt,
after all, Miss Eagan, with your beautitl brogue."
Jan paused for the roguish, merry rejoinder he expected ; and
was startled when he caught the look in her deep eyes. Shie
stopped dead still, and laid a quick, light grasp upon his arni, --
a proceeding which astonished Mr. Jan, for she was exceeding
fond of keeping her hands to herself.
"Look! Mr. Vedder -look !" said she, in a low, clear, voice;
there's a horrid sight  Plug l-mind -he is shtreelin right on
to us!"
"Great God! Sonsie, that dog is mad ! run for your life !
fly, - over the fence with you !"
Before he had finished speaking, two little children,-a boy
and a girl,- turned out of a cross-road, and came, laughing
and kicking the loose snow and red gravel before them. They
had a basket of pears swinging between them, and each i bag
of pop-co  in the other hand They were Daniel Prodd y's
twins, who had been on a visit to Grandiia Proddy, and were
carrying home the spoils. plug, with laboring breath, was upon
their he-els, scattering foam from his protruding tongue.
Sonsie screamed and put wings to her feet. Seizing one under
each arm, it was the work of a moment to drop them over the
fence, and seat'herself on top of it; ad it was time too, forthe
wretched brute was not two. yards off. He snappedhis teeth
together as she darted off, seeing sorme object 4imly tlfrough his
bleared eyes.
"Bang! a lightning 1 ash from Jan's rifle; the ball lodged
in the dogs forehe d, and hedroped inhistiks, stone dead.
Jan threw down his gun and took the carcass by its great bras
collar, dragged it into the roadside ditch, and threw a couple
of rails over it, carefully avoiding the bloody frttli which was
oozing from its mouth; and Sonsie' produced the speechless twins

143

ti  i '. 1 f
'    111  .1
s   I-
'   V~
s     41, Tg
,J I i j'ii


144           -      "MAD DOG1
from their retreat, and wipedtheir eyes, and after permitting
them to take a fearful lookat dea  Plug, she assured them
tie: would meet Ano more mad dos (P obably), and set them
safely out of harm's way, before she and Jai resumed' their
homewardroute. Her heart thumped, but she aid, coolly, -
"How lucky,   r. Veddeir that you and your rife, the pair
of ye happened to be onth road just now! and, ltis, a good
shooter -that.ye. are too. I think I shall begin to be looking out
for you as -a matter of course, pretty soon, when I'm in the
thrguble -'tis three times that you've helped me already."
Jan looked eagerly at her, hoping to catch a deeper meaning
than the sound gave him, but he lookedin vain the stir'and life
of the adventure were shimmnerig over her, but nothing be.
neath it.         A                                ~
assing Deacon Williares's pretentious stable, they saw Bax
slatin in. the  ro ilding one hand claspIed inthe other, look-
ing ullen, and scared half out of his wits. The horse in the stall
whinniedor is absent mate. Whether    a had top19ed for
more'drink, or cone to grief through what he hlad aliea dyim.
biked,he ha4 not Yetarrive  and aias one with his dread
trouble.    ~.
y   gBa!,        M  6t   ii  became up;
ve shot your-dogBx ! c.d  uf i       e ,nE up
"andIlukyji   to   before he bit s  ody"ore was stark,
sta ism                       oy;'frewsatak
ax uttered a dismal how  id &amp;pp~    r his hia kiohnring
upon. his hands.
"    ,What's the matter widye, Bax?  iorftbe sorry after the
dog - he had got, to ae;"and:li  eudaij  ust oe ypp!
and all ov  It couldn'tbe heljd hneabwouldrHav don some-
b   id an ischief  haftifla i  4 bit roibd ynd ave  uthe hy"
drothobyf? Yii   eitgh ti6 i'  &amp;v 1d.lf, gttig yofshutf
of he     NE      .           4IIv5v$$  ~

"MAD DOG!"

e

T4X

Bax lifted his head, and showed them his scared face, full if
agony, and his hand all purple and swollen.
"Was it his teeth, Bax ?" asked Sonsie, turning as white as
death, as she went close and examined the wound. "Don't
say 'twas his teeth. Oh! you poor, poor boy ! The Lord have
mercy on your soul? Oh, Mr. Vedder! "- she turned instantly
- " there's not a moment to be lost !"
A moment! there's not an instant," answered Jan, starting
off on a quick run. "Get him into the house," he called back
to her : "I'll have the doctor directly."
" Oh, Sonsie Egan ! Oh,. Mr. Vedder ! -Don't leave me;!
Have I got to die ?  Shall 1 be dead to night?. Oh, dear:! I
can't die ! I'm afraid ! Mebly he wouldn't 'a bit me if I
hadn't cuffed him round so. I'm scared to death! . Whatll
mother do'to me ? I wish I had a went to school: I'll allus
go arter this. You stay with me, Sonsie, wont you? I. didn't
mean to trip- you up that time.' Ol oo ! ohoo ! how my hand:
hurts ! It's turning black ! I'm dying.! Ohoot1 ohoo !
"Be quiet, Bax ; never mind tellin' them lies now. Come'
along wid me," said Sonsie, taking 'him by the sleeve : "I'll
wash the blood before the doctor comes. I'll stop by ye, in
course, if I can do you good. Come, pluck up ! be a man, can't
ye ?"       _
"Sonsie ! Sonsie ! " cried'out Jan (he had met the doctor,
and came back breathless), "you haven't a scratch on your
hands, have you ? Be careful how you peril your precious
life! "
" Nary a scratch, sir ; sound as a hazel nut !" answered she,
holding up her fingers, spread wide, while he anxiously exam-
ined them. "Never be thinking so much about me, Mr. Ved-
der ; this is plain duty, anyhow."
A second ..time Sonsie Egan was installed as' nurse"'in the-
13

i      }!
j   ,
e if   ,
,           ! ,?.
c                                     1
i                  '
5    4'
f   z    ;s
i   ii
'          f
'             f     t
t    I
i      .
,
i          !  ;
s
j      i         ,
S'
,!     ,
}
1
tF  -
I   r}         1
i
r
r        j     !
i     i     ,d
i
f -
'   i
t.
,:
I    ;' ,
f {
1       I4    f     I  f1,   r:
I     ?I,  i
i   '
I     '
s     f        -,
'
.,
1    -     I    ;          :
.       ,  a
! r .
', ,,.
'
,,
;
.   ,
,,
, ; ,
' ;                              ;;
Iii                 {{f(( 1
4
i'
1.
'       r    i           i f       . s
i  r
1      '! '  f
i   f      1              ,
i     l1    +   '
I         '
I,
i            t     j
'                  r
i         i
.a            i'
t
'
}'   I
!    ?   i+'    i
i
{;    ! a        r
e           '      ,
.;    !  ,  !
j     f l   I ,  t
,              {                +
I.'              _.


"MAD D        "              MAD DOG I"

.Deacon's house, from whence she had been twice ignominiously
thrust forth. The Doctor said it was clearly providential, and
pointed to nursing as her vocation; and Mary Ann came and
hung on her neck, and whispered,
"How good of you to come, Sonsie dear! Oh, Sonsie, you
must stay and help me ; this is fearful ! How do you suppose
it will end ? "
Mrs. Williams talked loud, and tossed back her cap-strings
and spread herself.
"Fudge ! I don't b'lieve nothing at all about the dog's bein,
mad1 Here 'tis winter, and as cold as Greenland.! I'll whip
the young dog's skin well, and trundle him off to school ! "
And as if her say so, could make it so, she went on scold-
ing,  abusing the Doctor and Sonsie, and threatening her boy,
till the Deacon came in breathless, his knees knocking to-
gether. He get hold of Sonsie's hand and squeezed it, while he
gazed with half-bewildered eyes into her good face, trying to
draw comfort from her strength and truth, and he kept mutter-
ig.-..
"It's a blow, isn't it, Sonsie? The hand of the Lord is
upon us, -as you may say, in a manner, seemingly, -- fear,
and a pit and a snare."
Doctor Jenkins finished his examination, and burned out
the-wounds with caustic, and left the boy still dead with chlo.-
roform on the -sofa ; and beckoned Sonsie out into the hall.
"-Come here, my girl ! He put his fingers on her pulse, and
took her chin in his hand, while he peered into her blue eyes.
" Plucky, and steady, and quiet ! You will do your duty here,
as you always do it;, without noise or- fuss. I wish more
nurses like you were to be had for love or money. I fear this
poor lad has got to- go. You must stay where you are for the
present. I had rather you had not washed the wound, Sonsie ;

;16 '

f

i

remember next time. I belive it only dilutesthe virus and sends.
it more easily through the blood. Burning out is better ; but "
(he shook his head) "on his naked hand, you see ! nothing to
clean off the poison before the fangs entered the flesh. I. incline
to the belief that there is electricity in the fatalinfluence, which re-
quires the presence of a fluid conductor; forif a dog's teeth are
wiped by passing through clothing, no evil effects follow, In some
terrible manner, the spirit.of the angry beast seems to be infused
into the victim like inoculation; and it is absolutely certain that
the virus is resident in the saliva, because the disease has been
communicated by the mere touch of a mad dog's tongue upon
a healthy wound; and in cases where the sores have been healed,
and no evil results have followed, anger will cause the old
wounds to flush and throb in unison with the rage:of the bitten
person.- I should like to show you my authorities,. Sonsie;
you would. be much interested in reading up the cases. HQw
the whole nature of;the dog can be changed so as tocharge its
bite with deadly venom, is amystery,:and how thessaliva can
communicate death to other beings, is also a mystery but
then we are ,.,bundle of mysteries, Sonsie; unless:the consti-
tution is poised so as to receivethe poison, it will not work,
even as vaccination refuses to take effect in some systems; and
it is a curious fact that light-haired people are more susgepti-
ble to this dreadful malady than dark-haired ones. =ag  has
got red hair. Well, well-! we'l1: do our best, and leave the
event ; our best isn't much, either. If you've anything to call
you away; any arrangements to:make with Mrs. Blair, you had
better hasten them. His eyes followed yotvaslong ias:he could
see anything, as if you could, save him  What is it in you that
has such power:?_- Y amust he a nurse! God ide you: for
that ! Poor Mary Ann is hardly strong enough for tlisti4;
her weak;nerves were dreadfully shattered by that slow feLI

"MAD DOG)"

147

'            F       S
V      i    41    ,
i      (     t
l      F
F         I                 ,
i
,      4F
i
"               i      i,    i .
R
F    '
_            a       t            f"
r
R
i,
I         +    R4
1     '     I    t     1'       1  'ti
R           !
1ylJ       '       ,       .ry  "
1,'


148

"MAD £dC C1"

I

Three or foutdays ought to-show us where we' are.~ You seem
to be the one to-hold tthis family together in its' troubles; so
make haste. It may-pass over.' I've known cases, where the
wounds healed, and months or even years elapsed before a seiz-
ure ;I'depend°entirely upon you.- That woman has no more
idea of nursing than a dromedary of playing the flute. Her
daughter would be rotting in' her coffin to-day, if she had 'had
the handling of her. There;she-goes! wiping up tracks, with
a scowl on' her face ! I wish I had brought in a bushel of mud
on-each boot ! The trouble and the 'dirt of -the thing, are all
she thinks of. Maternal instinct seems' wanting. You run
right off, Sonsie, child, -you've got your orders,  clip away,
now !-.
"I'll do me best, Doctor Jenkins, --I always do -!" said
Sonsie, stoutly. "I never '-was any gret friends wid Bax Wil-
liams, but if I can helper aise him, I'm ready, I'm sure. But,
Doctor can't you pul him through ? Sure he's the taste of a
dirty lie yet on his tongue. Oh, cure him up, and let him git a
chance-to behave.
"I'd-gladly do it, Sonsie, if IPhad the say; but no cure has
yet beendfound for this dread disease. Isay found, for I be-=
lieve there is a remedy foi' every ill that flesh is heir to, if we
could-oply' hit -it."
"Well, well,:Doctor! if he has to go over the dark river in a
hurry, I believe he'll happen get a chance on t'other side;
they'll consider the home, and the hard 'times, and the auld
draggon of a :mother that' he had, and start him again."
Doctor-Jenkins placed his spectacles, with a finger either
side of his nose, and looked.-queerly at the girl thus boldly
launching'her belief among "the planes of being," without
anybody;s leave. -
_aB remained, quiet the rest of the day, in a half stupor; and

"MAD DOG'"

x4s

Mrs. Williams kept about her energetic housekeeping.e She
was making soap, and tarried near the. cauldron; testing and
weighing, intent upon producing a prime article ; and the Dea-
con, browbeaten and warned off, by her repeated loud-voiced
declarations that 'twas "nothing but a tempest in a teapot;
the scamp was as well as anybody, -she'd have him off to
school in the morning with a halter round his lazy neck!"
went back to his office, and tried to enjoy his, profits.
For the next three or four.days, the boy was much the same,
not inclined to stir. His mother talked about a whip, and his
father hoped he only got a cold ; his breathing; was;thick and
wheezy, and his eyes were very red; and his young nurses took
turns in reading to him and telling hini stories. -Sonsie had
used plenty of soap and water-about him, and he looked quite
nice in his clean .linen, and neatly brushed .hair ; and she per-
sisted in getting him into his Sunday clothes through much trib-
ulation. A softening, humanizing influence. was' in the. sick-
room, and seemed to' melt into him with the atmosphere of
tenderness which surrounded him., His thoughts were'busy;
and he had fearful timnes ofahorrible dread of the future, which
it took all the moral strength of his two helpers to control.
He manifested intense curiosity about the next life, andlistened
attentively to the Bible amounts of the New Jerusalem  coming
down from God; and Mr. Growing, was :steady and judicious
in his visits and teachings. :it needed car  ing overthe
ground, before he couldtakein at alL the  4nof a Saviour.
Mary Ann, weak and_ ineffcient as she wascu s;d himoften
unexpectedly.' She had .travelled the a so  ently, and
knew all the sloughs and fearful places, an shewo merging
so surely into the clear light, and. joy, and peace thtl Christ
bestows upon his own, that her simple words were  5is in
a sure places"  Never did:'this zealous young pastor- so
13*p

t    v
r   t t.;1
r  I   ',  f'y

f
}
1
't


150

"MAD DOGJ!"

ii
+1

" MAD DOG!"1L

therouhly fulfil the duties of his mission as by the sick bed.;
his words were inspiration; his tones, winning sweetness ; his
prayers, wings for the suffering soul:
One evening, after Mary Ann, had been singing to her
brother, he lay looking in her face, and reached out and took
hold of her hand.
"You're a real good sister, Mary Ann," said he. " I e'en-
a'most wish I could get well sb as to have some good times to-
-gether. It seems ever so long that I came up -to this room,
don't it ?"    ~
"Not very long, dear!1 Maybe God let you suffer a little,
so that we may love each other mores"
Bar shdok his head.
"Folks most generally didwhen-mad dogs bites 'em.   I
know Plg wvas mad. I shan't never go out o' that ere door till
put into a coffi."
Don't talk so, Bax,:dear I You may get well,- I hope
you may. The Doctor says your hand is healing, and he wants
:You totakenourishment and try'to have an appetite, and get
strong  mn going to read to you out of EsperanZa- shall I ?"
?° ;No: I wan to talk now. Are you going to heaven sure,
MaryAnn?"
I hope so, dear," she: replied, mee kly
"AndyoonSnsie?"
"Yes, I nie. pif IOcan;andI expect to," spoke up Sonsie,
iher bris         She was stringing melon-seedsfor a pair
edfwhch she intended to amuse the sick boy,
arnd  e      dil bent face ilof will, and herglossy curls
andr;, che      s, a whid before hpoke again.       .
"Daou suppose dogs and cats and horses-aid sach dumb
-r N     'll-be there?"
don'tt kn   about that, Bax. ive'thought a deal of ime.

lit
J
i

self. It does seem that the fields of living green would look
empty like, wid niver. a four-footed tl ing running around, as
much as wid no singing-birds in all the beautiful trees, and
gold and silver fish leppin' and skepplin' on the clear rivers; and
besides, I don't see how the poor sufferin' things is to get paid
up for all the hard knocks they get here, if they don't have an-
other life soniewheres. Yes, Bax, I think they'll all be there."
"F hope I shan't meet Rainbow-anyhow, Sonsie. I've been
dreadful mean to, cats and dogs and sich. You see, mother
she used to be so mean to me, and I paid it off onto them. I
wish't I hadn't. I wish't I had hadn't plagued you, Sonsie; you
didn't ought to come and stay with me."
"Never mind that, Bax. There ! ain't that a broth. of a roos.
ter ! look at his red flannel coomb, all notched out I he's a real
shang high, ain't he?  Now I'm going to toast you a nice bit-f
bread for your supper, and I've a pot of go for jelly that Deb
gave Miss Ruth o' purpose for you. It came all the wayFrom-
oh, ever so far away,"
"Don't go yet, Sonsie. I want to tell you something. I killed
Jan Vedder's horse Mandrake. I should like to see Jan be-
fore I. die. As like; as not thehorses. and things '11 alItalk over
there, and just the minute that colt sets eyes- on me he'll i-y at
me and blow me up; I Inow he will  It was soamean ofme
How he did groan, poor fellow! I'm awful sorry,Sosie.. Wont
you ask Mr. Vedder tone and let me ask hispardon and for
give me before I die.. Tell him I'm going to be a gQd boy now,
will you Sonsie ? he'll believeyu"
"Incdade, then,.the boy wont need any new start on.t'other
side, I'm thinkin', i fhe goes this pace" said Sonsie,wiping her
eyes as she walked away.
As the days wore on,. the heavy dread which hung like  pau
aboethe watchers,zlifted invisibly the deep scara renamed ia

+Nb
r

00 1M
I-j
FFF  i  1    P i#1
11T v
Sf  A,
YJ T-11
i
!    (r  1.  ,
i   1
E '      ,   F1   i^

a
.4


f
f,
.  !s
4    }
! 1.
J   +
1    ,
1
°
,if
}"
#,
,;t
a
t    .
,
.s
S  i
i
r ' ,i1

"MAD DOG!"

153

$2                  "MAD DOG!".
thetboy's flesh, - a white cicatrice surrounded by a livid band ;
and the little finger hung powerless ; the tendon was severed,
and small atoms of bone had worked out of the wound; but no
fatal symptoms appeared. He had a low nervous fever ; and
was easily excited, with spasms of trembling and wild weeping,
after which he sobbed himself to sleep upon Sonsie's breast like
a grieved child; and for hours together he lay with half-shut
eyes in a sort of stupor, from which he impatiently refused to
be roused; and he saw wild sights) of prancing horses, and packs
of dogs, coursing free among his native hills, who looked fixedly
at him with their still eyes ; he trapped fierce animals whose
savage faces grew human and made him shudder, they glanced
so vindictively upon him ; but these things, the Doctor said, might
be a part of his fever; and he was trying a new treatment,
which he watched narrowly.
Fourteen days had crept by, and Bax was paler and thinner;
he begged for water and drank eagerly, holding, clutching the
glass in his trembling fingers. And Sonsie kept ice about his
head, and the palms of his hands ; he lay with wide open eyes,
which mechanically followed the floating motes, up and down,.
up and down, and his tongue was dry and purple. He talked
by. fits and starts, with his young nurses, of every thing he had
done and suffered in his short life, and they comforted him.
."Sonsie" said he, " there's a whole lot of Dorkings out in
.My hen-house that IL-didn't ought to have. I good's stole 'em
of Chris Gol4smith, and I want you to :take.and keep 'em for
her." Then he told how he had become possessed of the fowls,
and begged her to entreat Chris to forgivehis many injuries to her.
He went laboriously over his misdeeds and laid them bare to
her, and fastened his eyes upon hers while he asked if she really
thought Christ would be his Saviour. Another day, he could no
longer swallow ; and then the painful paroxysms began to come

on, the raging madness ; he was. lashed to the bed, and his fear-
ful struggles were horrible to witness, and his half-choked ani-
mal howls were enough to blanch the cheek. Sonsie stood
close to him, never flinching, and wiped the viscid foam from
his purple lips, carefully burning each bit of'linen she used.
In an interval of quiet, he whispered to herlaboring to be
understood.                                -
"I'm going, Sonsie. Thank good Mr. Growing. for all his
prayers. I think I see Jesus; I think he-smiles upon one;- I've
been a dreadful boy ; so cruel ! so wicked! .He. knows all
about it; I've told him; but I think he'll take me home, and
let me rest, I'm so tired - so tired ! Mr. Growing said- Jesus
loved me-; I guess he does ; ,4:hope he does ; I'm sure he does.
Over the river,' Sonsie, sing it please,! Come, Mary Aim, you
sing it too. I'll be on the bank, all ready:to meet you when you
come. I thinkyou wont be longrafter me, sister. I seem to
know it, somehow ;. and-you'll be glad to get into the beautifttl
city. It is all peace and sweetness thereisn't it? no quprelling
no scolding. Where's the children ? Fetch them all with y etk.
didn't have much comfort together here ' but we'll get it over
there; and I'll begin to be a good brother to'your. Jesus is going
to teach me how. Oh ! I wish I hadn't been so badtt it
can't be helped now. .Everybody has forgiven, me -Jesus is
smiling; his face is so sweet~ it rests me to have him looksat
me. Dear Jesus! he moved childrendidn't he? hewas a child
once himself; he knows all about it'
He sank back exhausted, and closed his sunken :yes, rad
the Doctor took Sonsie aside.
"-The time is short now," .sai the; "you must be strong and
quick;asave him all the suffering you re able Here is a sponge,
and this ois chloroformn. Put it to hisa mouth, whenh beginsto
rage  I shall have to leave you fora little old Mrs. Peib ne

i
i
'
i
'   i

. i
'i     I      f
"'h                  li'
i  ,'         I
i        ,            " ,
-  i
., ',
N ,j  ;   1 ,   I'
'''                      ,
li ,'  "' r   f
1'( i{'.            i    id

';            'i,  f,
1 R      '  ..
M        '
l    :
'
, !
,, ; ,
;,
i
,
s
; ;;
a
i   j  q   '
,
,
#
.          f    f  ,
' ,

r l
.t
'r    r
+t4jt
If 1 ,
I{Il1C1C//
r1    i
1117
f ° F
i      j
(4
1i
i
S'
Ss
} i

1      f               '  S
f                     1     tE  i
i
t,
E                1
{    I    ,'      i
1
1           E         E         ',}     I
' S      1           I      {F
' 1                f          1.11 i.
ti           1          "
t                      k

I ,ji,'
,;jil
.t
!, r


14

"MAD DOG!"

is worse; their man is waiting for me; 1111 look in again as soon
as Income back 'this' evening."
After- a long stupor, Bax roused again, and his poor purple
lips, which the had bitten and torn in his agony, worked slightly,
as ifshe frayed; then he opened his dim eyes and reached up
his 4ris, and Soisie and Mary Ann put each a hand into his
burning palms.
"Sister, will you wear black for me ?"
"I don't know, Bax," replied she, glancing timidly at her
another, who stood leaning over the foot-rail.
"Of course .'* she spoke up, in her strident voice ; "we- all
shall"
'Father!" said the by, turning instinctively away from her,
and making the reliest to- hip gentler parent, which he had
been turnig about for days in his isoadered braiii-- Father,
I itSohsietowear blackfor me ;)hellnmournalittle, I:know,
thaugh'1 have been mean and spiteful to her. :Oh mother!
mhefhe trained, "if Icould only try it againIwould be a
' vy khibehlard ion the youngones;iet then have
a    dtnde   'ad rayfbe they'll a l ee a comfort te you.
Jiglrh Ihadn't knonkedtheflaround so"
PTye&amp; threw himself downrby the bed and buried his head
in "the clothes¢ and the Deatons put his -hand upon him,: with
ht ejes, t ratgli which the big drops trickled don* his cheeks.
"Ar ytuMi r fexu'e wils keime, Sonsie?" said iBax, sud-
denly, as a cloud darkened :his new-born faith. "Oh Mary
She bent -over him and whi pered,'-
'E took me dear, and Ihad sinned Ionger than you. lie is
dloe ardterness; trusthin; he died for  you knoe"
"uGo d1Wy father; gediy mother; Isha never play
hokeyanfak     Ohdar;i's conlingagain!how arahy more

I

SONSIE GOES FOOT TO TIE BURYIN'.         165
do you suppose I'llhave to bear? Quick, Sonsied help me.!
hold me -no, don't ! stand off ! all of you.; I can't breathe!
I might-hurt--you !"
Before Sonsie could apply the sponge, the froth was dropping
from his bruised tongue, and his eyes were set in the death
agony. In an instant, he sank back motionless : his sufferings
were over : he was gone !
CIJAPTER XL
SONSIE GOES AFOOT TO THE BURYIN'.
RS. DEACON WILLIAMS was fully alive to the du
ties which devolved upon her, and dispatched then
with bustling zeal and business promptness. She  had
the house furbished up from top to bottom, and all the furniture
set out at its best, and every grain of dust carefully removed.
Even the bureau drawers and presses had to be laid over.
"As like as not, some of em "1 be peekin' in while we're gene
to the grave.- Old Miss Pettingill is a dreadful curus crtter.
I heard she said she never see a house so full of good t ings
as Miss Bradshaw's,_such piles of linning, and blankets, and
cotton cloth, and. coverlets, and counterpins, and every dura
thing. How'd she know, if she didn't peek into the closet an
chists? 'Tain't no ways likely they went reound and shown
'em to her!"
As for the poor father, he was quite overcome, and grieved
sorely. He andMarq Ann stayed in outofthe-way. plaes,
mostly by the bdd oft the dead boy, where the 'stiltfoi was
covered, white and cold: they two read and talkedlow ar4

I(   II       1:'      r{t
jr,
j     I a3
f     (    t  r
J     +    t    -
4     {    f'   .
r          t'       F
,
F F
I                [
s I
i
R             Ei    I..R
j f,

Hi

r    'f
f'
f
i4        j
,             r        1
!
r            ,     Yjt
7 ,         i       t
1             f    f    '
i                      .
k   '  4      F
tlk
i
'1        f
i   I        (       -
711
i' t  'I     I    j 7
i'';    'f ,_
7  ,  1
i,;  ,, ;
,(
4
i  '               7
li{
I  '!'.' ,
,,7,
, ,
17       7   }       -'
li   j'  7         '"       JJ

f


SONSIE GOES AFOOT TO THE BURYIN'. :.5'7

16   SONS[E GOES AFOOT TO THE B URYIN'.

prayed together. It was Mrs. Williams who sent for Mr. Plant-
, upto take charge of the funeral, and she gave him minute
directions.
"A rosewood coffin, silver plated and lined with white sating."
And she chaffered over the price and screwed him down to his
Iowetfigures. She sent for the floral gardener, and ordered
the bouquets and crosses.
"You needn't spare no expense. Put in plenty of big flowers,
 -camelias and sich ; and be sure and fix 'em strong, because I
intend to have 'em skelatated afterwards and put into gilt
frames. Miss Vedder had her'n done in Toptown after her hus-
band died, and they say they're butiful -every bit as nice as
pictures to hang onto the wall. So you may have 'em jest as
costic as you've a mind to; they wont be lost."
This was the dame's firstfuneral; and she meant tyanake
tUe. inQt ofthe occasion. When anybody called, she o0k
htdsand looked solemn, and said, -
"We shall expect to see you to our funeral."
Sonsie overheard Mary Ann pleading with her parent, that
she, Sonsie, might be allowed to ride by her side in the carriage,
and couldn't help listening for the reply.7
Whist ! now, till ye hear the auld dragon)" said she, with
herlhead up, like" Eve listening at the fougain," and she was
no ways-iscomposed or astonishedLby the Deaconess's charac-.
teristic rejoinder, --..s
"Not by no means !if anybody is let in, 'twill be Mr. Nick-
son. I think some of sending him an invite to ride along of
the mourners ; that Irish huzzy '11 stay to home, and mind
  things (I mst say she's trusty), and she'll keep folks out,
n4 help et the supper for tle folks. Expect Sister Ramble
and Gmlnshg. Sackrider in the noon, train, an4brotheralaam
4h      Jhtslgul44g wggt tQgo oour funeral for, I'd

t-

admire to know. Get out of my way: I want to see how my
new mournin'. frock hangs. Go right up and try on your bonnet.
I wonder if them jets '1l be becoming to you. I think I will
ask Mr Nickson - step along !",
Mary Ann ran into Sonsie's arms, as she left the maternal
presence, with her handkerchief to her eyes, who hugged her
heartily before she let her free.
" No   no ! mistress, don't ye be throubled," said she, as she
stepped briskly about her work. "I'll go to the poor boy's
buryin'; he'll be looking' for me to be there, and I'll not be the
girl that '11 disappoint him; and he hardly settled and to hoee
yet in his new place ; but I'll go on me own two futs, jest. He
was a poor mistreated fellow;; andI'll say a couple of prayers,
just an Ave and a Pater, forninst his cofjin, and dropagreen
sprig upon it for the sake of old Ireland  and to please hir.
Now ye know well enough, Sonsie, that he's goiestraght'to the
good house, where there's thany mansions, hisself; and uer
prayers nor masses nor vespers can't better hiik;aand 'is for the
poor father and the sister that ye'flmake yer devotions."
Captain Slocum said Mr. Plantum.had a keen nose for a
funeral; he could smell one afar off as the "war horse suffeth
up the battle ; and he dressed his face - in gloom and his lank
person in black garments, afterhe had finished his arratige
ments, - the camp chairs, the ebony table, the black -pall,he
showy coffin, the crape for the bearers, the carriages and
g best hearse with the. white feathers, and he stood pronently
in the hall during the prayer, and wept copious l into his white
handkerchief. The picked choir he brought himself, and paid
them, and carried then away after it was over. One TJniers-
alist, one seventh-daf Baptist, a basso frourhis own establish-
ment,-who alsohired for the French horn'andtlonette
circus days and general.training, and a trandlingeojshofwhq
I14

f   A


.  ,

II
id
.
It
1
jF1

SONSIE GOES AFOOT 'TO TIE" B URYIN'.

159

O8 SONSIE GOES AFOOT TO THE B-URYIN'."
was stopping at the 'Milville House, waiting to appear in Bur-
lesque Opera in the evening.
Mr. Growing was present, but did not conduct theservices;
that duty being assigned to the Rev. Dr. Perfect, of Nansook
JunCtion, who, was sent for on purpose. The Deacon and
Mar ynn didn't know any thing about it .till they heard the,
nufamiliar voice in the great parlor.; and they .clasped each
other's hands, and sought each other's eyes with a dumb sense
of injury,
When the last prayer was over, and the people had been as-
signed to the carriages by Mr. Plantum, who read their names
from a paper he held the young pastor stood quietly waiting,
with-his wife on his arm, tillthe lest one slowly left the gate ;
and there was plainly no provision for him.. He quietly dis-
missed her with a few words ; and, wrapping his cloak about
h" ,;he walked on toward the open grave.   He was soon
oned by Sonsie, and he conversed pleasantly with her in un-
raffled contposure.
-     cJan Vedder bad been gojgd i a  rth-all the morning
orythe Deacness's messages ,tosuch an extent that she felt her
iportance twonderfullyincreased 'by the-interest he . took in
y affairs, and tossed off her black ribbons and ordered him
agajn her; dmineering "head-up" way; but:Jan lost his
4.d fr d  trouble, for he  saw  nothing of  .onsie, and  learned
nethingofeherplace inthe funeraltrain. He had his own
sasaiwaiting, andwhenshe Aspie&amp;4the couple of walkers
wytalked by      1 theway -heicame trotting up to them and in-
sisted y~thdeshould take laces inath carriage. Sonsie re-
fuse~plumply-
"11go nmrnetwo Luts just, tosthisburyin',"said she ; "ye
jysftbg   telao lieate a11.rdeddersithankin' ye kindly.
ea gdeit -nileat heretubborn airrefused

also, and Mr. Jan, disgusted with the whole thing, wheeled'about
and went home. "By the gods of -Vhala!" said he, "that
girl is right, as she always is, though so confoundedly provok-
ing."
The people in the carriages talked of the crops, and the
weather, and the election; and the women commented upon
the appearance of the bereaved family in their new 'Morning,
and discussed Mrs. Williams's ma agement of her children, and
related anecdotes of, the dead boy, which bore rather hard
upon-her maternal tenderness.
Mrs. Deacon Proddy and Mrs.. Mc'Cross were inthe same
carriage, and comforted each other with scripture and apgro-
priate hymns.
why should the rich despise the poor-
Why Should the post repi re?
Alee teiewiinakewn1i
In equalfriendship jine.".
Upon which Mrs. Proddy heaved a deep sigh andresponded
" I know it, Mrs. McCross, jess so ; life is-but a span. Drefful
comforting hymn that is ! My dear good first husband, that's
dead and gone, used to breathe it gently on the organ to the
tune of Windham; yes."
Zoe and her mother were shut in with Dick Wallsingham and
Pauline Bradshaw ; .and Mrs. Vedder was scandalized by the
way these two restless children pointed out the objects of i
terest en the roadl, as d the anu ene edeW 1
sources; and fina.Zoeeclaimedoutofallapatienc
"DonDick,:put up your ha dkerdef toyourent,
will persist in looking oprtof=that- window with su:ratheerf l
grin on youir onnteuame I'
As thew first xhyelfulh;of .eathfel .pohbe coflini Sorsie
drew near and dropped a tify crosslet of yew ipow it;ight

Ii
I 7 1
ji


160~

"'KISS ME, RAIN8BOW"

'4Fl
tit

"KISS ME, RAZARBOW)

161

above the dead boy's heart, and stepped back as easily as she
had approached, and was lost amongthe other people.
Mrs. Deacon Williams said she. felt Baxter's death deeply,
and she was extremely particular about her mourning. I never
heard that she regretted any of the beatings she had given the
poor lad, nor the times she had led him to school with a-halter
around his neck.; but she told her acquaintances that he was
the child of many prayers, and she had no doubt whatever as
to his future state.
I don't know as it was in the least owing to her, that the young
Williamses had a better life, but they certainly did, for Mary
Ann went softly and spoke kindly to them;- she gathered them
together, and read to them, and her father watched her in
silent' delight, and often joined himself to their company.
Somehow they were all drifting away from the stout well-to-do
mother, into a higher, brighter atmosphere. The poor creature
could not see it, she was so busy with her muck-rake she felt
no inspiring presence in her household ,
CHAPTER     XIIH.
IE  AGANEworkXwan done at the Deacon's,
Sand she wayat home with Ruth Blair again. She was
getting experienceof life every day; and she pondered
Man things in her heart, Sonsie was fond of placing herself
in the position of the people about her,-and saying to herself,
"No, hoewwould hateidone that timef?" and her conclusions
decisionss were very nearly jukt,

i'
or
1!
,r
t
e;
.J
i,
14
F,

The Deacon took good: care to carry out Baxter's wishes in
the matter of the mourning, and Sonsie had just received a box
full of dresses and aprons, a simple black hat and cloak, and
a couple, of pairs pf nice gloves. She turned them over with
pleasure, the good bombazine the strong merino, and the two
ginghams : they were Baxter's gift, and she prized them:highly.
She put on the bombazine and walked up and down the room,
looking at its tr ail over her shoulder. It was the first one she
had ever worn, and she smiled at herself as she stepped. Now
something queer happened, which you must believe, for it is
strictly true.
Rainbow was lying on the lounge, with his head in his paws,
and the third or fourth time Sonsie paraded:past him, he got
deliberately down and joined her. Walking by her side, he
trailed his great mottled tail on the carpet; .and-looked .at -it,
over his shoulder, precisely as- his friend was doing her long
robe. Sonsie watched him awhile in:silence, and then pounced
upon him and covered him with kisses.-
"Ah, Rainbow, me boy! did you think I was too vain?
Well, perhaps I might be; but, you -see, I haven't worn mine
so long as you, acoushla, dear "
Pretty soon Jan Vedder :came in, and he could hardly take
his eyes from the. red and white comeliness of the fresh young
lassie.  She told him the story, and tried to: put Rainbow
through his paces again, bit he provokingly 'refused :to "en-
core " the scene, and lay down and frisked amongPigeon's
nine-pins instead ; and when they were quietly seatedade
leaped upon- Jan's shoulder, and purred vivaciously.  ' Pretty
soon, Sonsie came, passing swiftly by'; and stroked him, and
said, "Kiss me, Rainbow," and he put up his mouth as sensibly
as folks, and seemed thoroughly pleased with what he gt.
Alien bloods (sayeth a wise man)t'develop strange. currents
IA*

It'r
f 'V4
{p      _t

11'( :,S
r  I ,

r
R
r
i
i
i
i
i
4
a      7
,
{ '
i
;
s
F
- .
7  '


12     -.     "KISS    E, RAINBOW"
' when they fow close to each other, with only the films which
cover lips and cheek between." Though, the sweet, wholesome
face was so close to his, Jan did not dare to put his lips to it,
as he might audaciously have done, without stopping to
think, a few months before.  He had learned some lessons
since then ; and it was but an instant and no more, before she
had withdrawn, and sat bending over her new hat, in deep
thought, the other side of the table.
Jan put down the handsome Egyptian, and walked about the
room, touching the books and Sonsie's knitting with uneasy
fingers.. He had a proposition to make, and hardly knew how
to form itso as to- be safe ; though he had turned it over in his
mind so oftenthat it was all clear there as sunshine.
" Could I see Mrs. Blair this evening, do you think, Sonsie ?"
he asked, after a little.
 " No, sir; she studies in her room at this hour, and I must
notiinterrupt her, and I must be after studying' py lesson itself.
Oh, Mr. Vedder, I get much discouraged those-times." She
N aved a deep sigh. "Idication is like going up -a ladder:
every step I take there's so-many long ones ahead of me. I
think I'll never be aught but a poor,-ignorant girl at last!"
Whae the trouble now, Sonsie? I thought you never des-
paired ! You are certainly the ;bravest girl I know ; but you
need help, o1 course." =
Jan felt ,as if a :way was opening for him to introduce his
proposition, still he .would not spoil it with hurry; so he
added,
"iWhat is it, Sonsie ? Perhaps I can enlighten you."
"Just this, Mr..Vedder : Mr.Growing gave me this purty
book" (showing him the Pantheon). "It tells all about the by-
.gone times, when peopleworshipped Jupiter, and Mars, and
NIeptune, and the gods of the trees and the streams (we used

I

'KISS M, RXiN O     "1
to call those ones kelpies and fares to home);. d;
him what was the old religion of Ireland before the  h
Pope, and he said it was much the same as these in
and the priests were called Druids.; and I wanted to kn
more, but I didn't like to ask other questions: he might think
me troublesome."
"I can tell you all about that, Sonsie 1" said Jan, sitting
down enjoyingly. The crafty fellow was constantly reading up
Ireland, so as to be posted upon the diverse points on which
the young emerald sought information; and he had to keep
tolerably busy, too, for she cropped out in all sorts of unex-
pected places.
"Ah! that's nice of you, Mr. Vedder ; let me get-me-sewing,
till I listen."
" I can't see the particular use of it, Sonsie;.but .they say all
knowledge is profitable, and so perhaps this will do you, some
good. The Milesians,-that s.the ancient, or=pagan Irish,--whose
origin was traced back by-their=bards to Milesius; and back of
him to Japhet and Magog,-a adored Jupiter, Mars, and ,the
moon,. and the winds; and, in fact, pretty much every. ting
that was stronger than they 'or which they could not conpre-
hend. Theyhad a good deal of learning^Theiralphabet was}
named entirely fromaM trees; because the Druids,:who lived in
the woods, thought the trees= were the best and most powerful
products of nature. ;They called it 'Bith-Luis-Nio' CBeitk,
means birch-tree:; Luis wild ash, and .Mon, true ash; and
their alphabet, in English, reads: birch, wild-ash, alder, wil-
tow, ash, white-thorn, oak, hazel, vine, ivy, elder, fir4ree, heath,  I
aspen, and yew, --and there are two more which nobody'knows t,
any thing about, "Peth-bock and T'imme.' The priests Nand
'bards were the great folk in those times, 'assthey have been everA
since 'especially :the priests whom ,the olds Milesianus tca~ed


RKISS AI,, RMNBO WI"

Draoi, or Druids, and :they governed the people as well as sac..
rificed for them. Laogare, who was -king at the time of St.
Patrick- always swore by the sun and wind; he had a remarka.-
ble stone, ornamented with gold, which gave oracles, -answers
to questions, you know. Different nations have endeavored to
find out the origin of the word Druid: the Germans think it
comes from Dru, which means faithful; the Saxons from Dry,
which signifies magi; the Milesians got it from Dair, which means
oak; and I think that is the -prettiest derivation, at all events;
for their. island abounded with towering forests of the acorn-
bearers, in the solemn seclusion of which the Druids celebrated
their mysteries. - They are not, by many, the only ones who
have held- sacred the oak, .and its mistletoe. In Greece the.
priest, dressed in white, used to climb the tree and sever, with
a golden knife, the clinging vine, and give it to the people to
cure their ills; 'and certainly there was one.:use they could make
of the good strong ones which was finishing and -complete."
"You mean hang themselves, sir.' Sorra .a bit of a cure is
that! - Dyin' isn't the end at all! oh, no, we've all got that in.
side of us-that teaches different."
"Oh, well, you mustn't interrupt me with theological points
now.- Some day we'll take up. the ' tobe or not to be' for a
question-; but I'm going to tellkyou about the deities, -I've just
got to lit. Bell, he-was one, a -rich god who owned land and
had his sacred fire, a this sacrifices, and his.golden calf. . He
was adored (says the learned Abbe McGeoghegan) till Christ
came, and we know that the same fellow is much adored nowa-
days, especially by the women, in the form of dollars and cents,
diamonds, laces, and so on.
"They used to eat each other in those . times, Sonsie ; lucky
you didn't open those blue eyes of yours beneath some Dru-
idical oak;! the fairest=andYprettiest. young girls were the-vie-

tims ; and there is a story of a rurse, -who fed her little-princess
on children's flesh to make her strong-and-beautiful."
"Ah, auf! I don't believe that tale, anyhow. No true Irish
girl would do such horrid things," said Sonsie, who had forgot..'
ten all about her  ewing, and was listening with eager eyes and
parted lips. - But whisper, Mr. Vedder, sir; -what ever did
they wear those old times?"
"True woman !t" said Jan, who was enjoying himself hugely,
and reckoned the hours well spent which he had devoted to ac-
quiring useful Irish knowledge. " The men went very finely
dressed: they had a tunic, -and drawers, and leggins, and boots-all
made of one piece of leather, and as tight as could be ; and out-
side, a purple cloak ; their hair. and beard unshorn .swept their
shoulders and breasts, and they had high peaked caps for their
.heads, and on their feet sandals,-just a sole, you know, Otied
on to their big toes and ankles with many strings. A-most admir-
able and becoming attire, Sonsie; I'll originate it. for our next
fancy party, and you shall. be lovely Edna, the charming spouse
of Ollan Folda, the stubborn."
"What might that be, sir?"
"A very modest raiment, Sonsie ; no anklets, nor bracelets
nor nose-jewels, nor wimples,.nor :crimping pins, nor-tablets
but a short' mantle of cloth, to the-knee, worked and fringed
over a petticoat; and-their fildeathor headdress a long strip of
white linen turned spirally around their .heads, -and tied=into
a vail behind; their -hair platted and intertwined with ribbons
You must let your shining tresses grow- young-Edna, for our
party."
* Miss Zoe' d be lovelytin that dress "I''exclaimed Snsie,
with enthusiasm. "I thank yeskindlylr - Vlder, -and eculd
ye lend me the big' book that tells all about it, till I read fo
rneself? Other ust.bW pleity-iore-idication iiaityetd"

5
I
7
i  3      -
ilSijE
i  1
}i
e
jai.!
{r, S
'4' .
}I;t;
F p 3l
i  tf
i
ft
,I
I
I
3Ilit

"KISS". E;,RANBO ,"


-KISS ME, RAINBOWW."

167

Jan was a little confused by this direct reference to the source .
of his information, and had no idea of permitting her to ship in
bulk, what it afforded him so much delight to dole out by in-
stalnents.
" Sonsie, the black dress you have. on becomes you rarely ;
never mind going back to Ollan Folda's Edna for a costume;
one of his yellow gold chains around your neck, with a little
Paris watch in your belt, would be a nice finish, wouldn't it?
and a great convenience beside. Every lady ought to have a
watch "
"Yoh think so, indeed! Well, imayhap you are right, but
I'm not a lady, only a servant at this present time ; and I shall
keep agood watch over me behavior, Mr. Vedder,  that's all
the watch I need for now ; thank ye kindly for your unspoken
thought, sir."
Jan blushed.
"It was no unworthy thought, Sonsie;'nothing to feel shame
for. ;I don't know what to do with. my money. I don't care
any thing about it either, if it can't be of use to those I -like.
I do wish you would be reasonable, and let me invest a little of
the iiuating medium for yourgood. Come 1.l'say I^may place
you at' school! There! -it's out now; hang it, there's no use
in beating about the bush. I see how you thirst for learnin.
Invite you to  drink -'your f 11:lfit; t te prg
if  e s  a= onthave to :dos tto;artgewatotibhak and
l d e-igand,seiously,Sonsie y a need feel no Qglgation to
repy  atertodrikAyurfiLe {   ; oireit wit the sprnd
mebecauseyou"knowyou can.take he noiy.as a lan; and
repay me after a while; teach, or write, or paint pictures, ahei I
's taelyynenotes,:and* llprionuseato:.wingny leu.gth of tune
-ten yearsT f o'i saysod :Lord bless you! I han't be in any
Jaidio ered his facesforan tadst, psi gshi rid over it,

and coughed slightly, before he met the eyes of the young girl,
who dropped the work she had picked up again, and darted a
keen look at him. He returned it without flinching; and the two
kept silence a moment.
"You are true and honest, this evening, Mr. Vedder, and you
are varee good. I honor you for the kind intent: it does ye
credit; but, ye see, it is onpossible."
"I don't see it at all!1" replied Jan, eagerly. "That sort of
thing is done every day.' Rich 'men choose so to spend their
loose cash; they fit young girls to take care of themselves,
educate them for singers, painters, sculptors, and teachers, and
the good girls work very hard, and they earn a great deal of
money, and they do good with it; they educate. their young
brothers and sisters, it might be Dennie or Mystie;" and they
take care of their old mothers. Yes, indeed!"
" But suppose they don't succeed? supposee they die before
the time comes ? they die in debt. I couldn't die in- debt, Mr.
Vedder."
"Look here, Sonsie, you've no right to go back on your own
words, -'If you had made me the offer as a true man thathas
money to lend might have made it to a poor girl, I'd have
taken up with it, and blessed ye for it.' That is 'just what ou
said, verbatim. Now I do make it, look at me ! carit you read
the truth and honest purpose, that prompts me to beg you to
accept a loan from me. I have it ; you need it;- let me lend it
to you."
" Mr. Vedder, I was wrong to speak those words I didn't
know it then, I know it 'now; and you must leave asking me; it
is onpossible."
Sonsie ! what an unpleasant girl you are ! so stubborn, so
unreasonable 1 I should think anybody as sharp as you, could see
the force of a strong argumeit better. If I was an old gray.

t ',

4               ',
,
.,
tl
?      I'         ,
'                      r ,
'  '       ";
, ,i     .
,;
.      f                       ,
_  ,       !- , ;
j' '   t
,-
ff     t +5
1        i    [     ,S
{I
'      }   'f"
(,;         ,41      tIi  7
i   't   ;   ;         '-
t - ,j;
I      f    f
f   -                '
', t           li         ,'ir
'i           ;              _
, ,
c                    i yr:
#I'    i        ,\      t1 jt'
,((          :a
'          lT  t '
i' 1 + '                    ' '
i1f I f         ,    '    17Y "
' f        ,,    (       } 11 3
{   '
tiw _
",   i    a.nF            t  't

}Si =N;
.J ;j ri
r, ,

166

" MSS ' AfE, RAr BO'W""


168

" KISS ME, RAINBOW"

beard, you would not be so silly.  I wish I was as hideous ac
the clauricawn, who mends his brogues day and night, under the
shadow of the cow-thistle, with a: purse of gold in his pocket;
then perhaps you would listen to reason, and act for your own
good."
&amp;1 don't,: then, Mr. Vedder ; I shouldn't take the pleasure I
get now, in looking at your bonnie face, like a gleam of God's
blessing;"
Jan started, and put out his hand to grasp her's; but sank
back again, as she said, with modest, bold firmness in her blue
honest eyes, -
"I don't see me way clear, sir, to any such idication; and
till I do IJ can't step safely. -Yer just wastin' yer breath," and
she shook her head half sorrowfully as he opened his mouth to
begin again. "''Tis no use talkin', sir ; ye may drop it, or we
will be bad friends for stare."
You might learn a little music, at any rate, Sonsie, -the Irish
harp, for instance ! In old times the Milesians excelled upon
that, ' they struck harmoniously the .strings of brass, with their
fingersin sweet, quick accord; they drew melody from discord-
ance.'- Wont yott have .a harp, Sonsie ?  You might venture
that mtich in my debt. I think I'd wait till you'd earned the,
ihoney, travellingyou know, and playing beneath the people's
windows," said Jan, teazingly. Poor fellow ! he was much- pro-
yoked, and out of patience, with the small ground he made.
"Thank you, sir ." she replied, in unruffled good temper; "I
travelled wid a broom when I was a slip of a girleen, barefoot
and :often hungry. I know more about -that life than a gentle-
man who slept in down and dined famously those times, could
river be tellin' me. I'd that sort of travellin' enough to do me
for a lifetime.
What if we two were to see the world a gypsying !" Jan.

"KISS ME, RAINBO W "1

109

rose ; tossed back the spools he.had been building tottling
towers with, into her work-basket, and stood before her with his
chest out and his head up, and his cheek and eyes fired by sud-
den emotion. 4"'I'd keep the purse and carry the pack, and you
should sing your wild Irish songs, and twang the harp-strings.
I could tell you some tales of a life by the hedges under-.the
ripe sunshine, careless and free, which would bring the violet
into your eyes, till you should feel these Yankee trammels,
chains intolerable and you'd long for the wood-quest singing in
the sweet meadows, and such freedom as the Bohemians of the
world enjoy. I wish I could cut loose and live that way with you,
Sonsie. I'd willingly leave society behind me."
Sonsie sprang up, and not too soon either ; for the young fel-
low was fast surrendering himself to a dream of love which shut
out reality, and responsibility, and stern duty, and knew only her
for its source of joy.
Sonsie felt indignant at his folly; but beneath her indignation
there was the faint tremble of an emotion which quickened her-
pulses and kindled in her face. It was not love, -only the
glimpse of a possibility ; it just fluttered and vanished before
Jan had time to catch its glow, -Jan who was a little ash  ield
of himself for deviating from the plan of action he had ni  R
out; and she lifted her blue eyes, clear, positive, and confidelt.
"And will ye be gone now, Mr. Vedder?" asked she, as Jan
picked up his hat. "Well, good-evening, then, sir; I'll e'er
forget yer kindness."
Yes, onsie, I'm going down to the bank to talk up gold
stock ; or; no, I believe I'll go and have a game of chess and a
bit. of German with Mr. Growing. I need some solace for my
disgusting disappointment."
He smiled as usual, at her, as he shook her hand: "Plbring
you sonme'Irish songs next time I come, for yourharp  Sha-

,
; .
i      '
f      ,t
,
'  , , t'
!     ,;
r
r I j '
!   t '
; ,  t
i,} I,'
,  ',      'f
' .l  ;-
' ,
,  ,
s, ,
,
,   t ,
i'
;,
,
.
_ i
,
;.
.
,
I
' ;  ' -
.;,i i, ''f '
.   (  ; '.
I  '
i     j  ';
j     ;   ,  '
,     , ,      ,
,- I    f
?         5
{.          a'
,
t           +
t  '   i
o ,.
'          [      i  i
{     +      .
I     j ' , 1'
1     S
I     ?i        i-
,
C,     ,  ~   i
, ;    ;
,      .   .'
,'  - 4
{,
-       f         -
-,,.
j .,
E         }       ' r{{{     i  ,
t         I I    il 'T
.{,,
". ,,,
.  ,  _-
I,      a  -


10

A BOTTLE OF HARMONY SHERRY.

mus O'Brien.' He was a lucky fellow, that Shamus. I wonder
if the lassie's name was Sonsie,"
He looked teazingly merry, and so fresh and frank and kigd,
that the young girl felt thoroughly proud of him.
"He's a raal gentleman !" thought she. "I'm glad I spoke to
him those times; I'll keep on speakin' as often as I see a place
to do him any good. He'll be a fine strong man, too ; he's get-
ting bonnie and busy, every day; and whether he likes it or no,
he can't help owing some of it to Sonsie Eagan, 'the, crossing
sweeper.' She stooped and picked up Rainbow, who had followed
Jan to the door, and politely seen the last of him. "Yes, Rain-
bow, we've done the air of Brookedge good, the purty pair of
us; haven't we, me boy ?"
CHAPTER XIII.
A BOTTLE OF HARMONY SHERRY, AND WHAT CAME OF IT.
SQUIRE HITCHCOCK and Mr. John Nickson had a
long talk over a bottle of Harmony Sherry, and finished
the wine while just in the interest of the conversation.
So they breached 'another bottle, and before it was emptied, the
Esquire had bought some of the "Sprightly,"' stock, -which he
had a perfect right to do if he felt a call to make a fool of himself;
but he also let. out a secret, as his tongue got loose, -- a confi-
denceinttusted to his keeping which should have been as sacred
as . penitent's revelations at the confessional; and Mr. John
Nickson knew as much as he did abontt Deacon Williams's will.
Insedsible block, not to comprehend that he had thus helped
Adeliza Euphemia to another chance of single blessedness and

A BOTTLE OF , ARMONY SHERRY.

171

made of none effect all her tea-drinking,her piano-playing, her
* Casta Diva's, and display of housewifely acconiplishments,---
all her energy and zeal in the, Mission School.
Mr. Nickson had been some while saying to himself,
"How happy could I be with either,
Were the other dear charmer away,"
and using his wits to discover which of the young damsels was
"most heavily-weighted;" or, as he was oftener accustomed to
put it, which of the two old daddies would cut up fattest. The
young Williamses outnumbered the juvenile Hitchcgcks; but
the Deacon's Gonecusset shares trebled those of the Esquire, and
he had, plenty of means beside; therefore he went oyertha
same evening and ivited Mary Ann Williams to drive wit him;
and her mother being present, she had no choice but to accept,
and now the poor girl was going to be married to him. The
wedding-dresses were made, and the cards out;. theywere
big as a pocket-dictionary. Six of them, -the "at church," the
"at home," the Deacon and the Deaconess's names conjointl
the bridegroom and the bride's separately, and the monthly recep
tion day. And in the corner of the "at home," were thelet-
ters R. S. V. P. in gilt and azure. Old Miss Pettingillaskedjaf
Vedder what that meant, and he explained that it stood for re-
spectable society, victuals provided," and appealed soberly to
Mrs. Williams to confirm his statement, and she said with real
gravity, equalling his assumed seriousness,
"Oh, no, indeed, I guess not; I asked the clerk,ad hetold
me how 'twas, 'Rings, silver vases, pianers , to. ive to
the bride';' but folks don't need to confine themselves tg them
things, if they don't want to,,, you know; they can pay their
,money and take their choice, of course."
The Deacon's fears for his child's happiness, based on his

1
C i

,'
I
i
'__
1     1
i
i  /  _
1

, l

{-
r      f,
I,
r
{    ,
E .i
,
,
r
t
,
x
'     i,
{
'        .  ,
i_ ,
i
-
i
.'          c
;
i , f"
,          i
' , ;f ;:
r
,'         .t '
}   ,
r
r
;       ,
.
j'
'          {
E;
t
{       ,  ,
"          - 1
r       f   i
"1
lI 1 ,
rf   '
vi    E
r       I
r       r
r't
{       (
r          ftjt ! t
4    yt'
'       {I i
1            .
,j
,'       r
i
'  '  _  r  I
{    i      r   a
, da  1


172

A BOTTLE OF E ARkTONY SHERRY.

study of her face and conduct, were laughed at 'by - the
mother, who naturally had her daughter's interest at heart ; and
Mary Ann's faint struggles were ignored and frowned dowp as
ridiculous. Mrs.' Williams carried matters with a high' hand, and
the weazened little papa, comforted himself, that his would-be
son-in-law was a very active man in the church, and well-to-do
in the world; and the daughter offered rhmany fervent prayers,
and trembled in secret ; nd was passive and inoffensive in pub-
lic; and waited for the coming of her unwelcome bridal as sad
as a bride's wedding," 'at heart. She watched MT. Nickson's
face, as dumb animals watch a fierce master's; sometimes with
too obvious shrinking, almost despair. The two weak ones were
too feeble " to cope with so formidable an adversary," whom
her recent bereavement had not n the least softened. Baxter,
her eldest son, was dead and turned to dust; she had done her
duty faithfully by him, and given him an expensive funeral. Old
Miss Pettingill said " it was such a beautiful hurrying that it was
a real pleasure to contemplate upon it, and it seemed a most a
pity he couldn't a been there himself to see how nice every
thing wentof'."  Now Mary Ann her eldest daughter-was going
to be married and she rose equal to the occasion. It was her
first wedg and 'she determined to have it gorgeous and com-
plete.
'Thebridegroom-elect also held opinions upon the proper
style of his nuptials. He purchased a showy mansion, a little
way up Gonecuset street, upon which he put so many kinds of
ornamentation, that the architecture became truly" composite,"
and outshone the "two steeples and a doom," which. Captain.
Slocum said he'd got upon his house. One corner was a Chi-
nese pagoda; one, a Gothic chapel; a third, a tower with a
roof so high and steep, that Captain Slocum' asked the banker
if he "ownedeall'theway' up " 'andin th  centre italian

A BOTTLE OF hARMONY SHERRY

173

villa. And over the great gate to his sumptuous barn (which
edifice a couple of Druse missionaries, home, begging for money
to build a chapel on Mount Lebanon, mistook for a church, it
was so imposing and solid), he caused to be erected wooden
figures of a fox and a pig. Miss Pettingill remarked of them,
"Law, sakes ! what drefful peculiar creatures to stick up
onto that Nickson's fence ! Masseyine ! how folks can. But
I suppose, mebby they're family statutes."
The banker furnished his house superbly; sending to Toptown
for upholsterers, and other cunning artificers, and superintend-
ing the whole in detail.
Adeliza Euphemia went over it the day before the wedding,
and said "the pictures wasn't much," and the carpets "would
sweep off;" and spoke against the bedsteads, groundlessl for
every thing waelaborately elegant. You might almost-have
taken the Deaconess and the banker for the lovers, thsre
so chatty and familiar together. Poor Mary Ann was}d
upon nothing. She was not even permitted to have her dear
pastor and friend, Mr. Growing, to perform the ceremony,
the Rev. Dr. Perfect, being fetched from Nansook Junction
again, to officiate.. Indeed the Growings were not invited to the
"at home ; " a slight, it was intended, they should deeply feel.
The girl begged with tears to be allowed .to take her first com-
munion before she became a wife; she felt as if- it would .om-
fort her, and give her strength for her- future. *But she was
positively refused by her mother, who had a private planabout
that, she was waiting an opportunity to..carry out.. There was
a paper in circulation, asking Mr. Growing to resign;- and as in
Congregational churches the sister's vote she and  Mrs.
Hitchcock had been very busy, and she looked to have Mary
Ann come out under the management of the Rev. Dr, who
was known to lead off such ceremoies ini dramatic style. And

{        fI

i
-
i
l
i
t
,,
i,
1
i
n
f
£
r
'
_         77i
i                t
f
I
I
I     ;
4
i.
I
r
1
f
'         yr
'         !
I      ;         rll p
t         }III;'
r
t         Ii
I
i         1
, i
i                 '
6            E;     ,
}    '
,f ;
}      !         ,
,
i ,
! !
,
i '
,
'           '
,
,
.
{
,
i             - i
i
i
ffi
i      !         F'
ji
t       'fit
i
i
_ , _
,

,
+,;
;
. I ,
.,'
.
F

r

i
.c
i
;
I.
II
l
i
=t

;  'I
.  .
;  .f;
. ,j i,
,;  . ;,
,
,.  , ;:
1'I   1F1        t
?   t  1; ''   '_


14    JOHN NZCKSON EMBRACES THE DE ACON..
so poor Mary Ann, who never had her say nor her way in her
life, was going' to be' married-by a stranger whom she disliked,
to a husband she was afraid of.  Married, with ostentatious
display, while her'-heart was 'still'sore with her brother's recent
horrible death. 'Her mourning was to be put aside, and she
decked out in 'bridal finery, and to take her place by side of the
banker, a centre figure in the costly show.
CHAPTER XW.
JOHN NICKSON EMBRACES THE DEACON.
AY hath put on his jacket, 'and around his burning
bosom buttoned it with- stars'; and John Nickson is
putting on a new suit of black, of the most stylish cut,
and suh, a white satin vest and. necktie'! 'His 'friend"'Knox
threatened to be present at the' ceremony ; and was only kept
off by aY bonu .Like the organygrinderiwho knew the-vally of
piace and "qietness'and never moved on under'a quarter,"
Knox stuck to his pious friend-and bled him deeply sometimes.
The lorig parlor, at32 Gonecusset Street,'was gorgeous with
flowers, and one coiner was arched off into a nuptial bower, by
a cunning wreathing 'gf ground pine, and alittle portable altar
erected'theiein. Cymbalinus Adolphus had designed and su.
perintended its completion with vast enjoyment, and had origi-
nated no less than fifty "widdles " while the' 'ren were busy
upon' it; and poor Mary Ann, who could 'not' hellp showing her
pleasure in his neighborhood any more than a' suflower can help
turning toward the sun, was forced to standtherewith her
hand in his, to get the effect 4 and' went di-ooping evay to her ~

7O1HN NICKSON- EMBRACES THE DEACON. 1T5
room afterwards, full of shame and sorrow. Mrs. Williams had
wished a hundred times, during her preparations, that she had
Belle Brandon to help her.
"She is drefful tastey," she said, " and such. a team to work
when she's a mind to put in!" and -Mary Ann trembled lest
that beautiful blonde should be invited to assist at her wedding.
The black cake was baked and frosted ;and the bride's loaf,
which was ordered from Toptown, had arrived. The bride,
dressed in her costly satin, loaded with orange-flowers, was
waiting in her chamber with Sonsie for her only companion.
Her . face was chalky white, and her eyes hopeless. The
good stun walk" was covered with Brussels carpet ; an
there  ere two bands'in' attendance, one outside to discourse
music M the passers by,-as the fellows in gilt-lace sit before-a
circus tent, -and the other, up stairs in the hall, between the
two "nic for stat," which Mrs. Williams found in the architect's
plan of their residence ; and mentioned to her friends with
pompous accent. The "stat " were a minus quantity, and the
" nic " were filled with a couple of " Praying Sammys " backed
by peacock's feathers.
The gay bridegroom came dashing up to the door in his new
carriage,
"Like a railroad train, with a queen inside,
With directors to poke, and directors to guide."
Sonsie, who was talking against time to make Mary Ann smile,
announced the fact characteristically ; and when he put his
head into the door, shortly after, there came also a strong odor
of spirituous liquors ; and his eyes were a trifle watery as well as
blood-shot, and the like-ss to an old baked apple stronger than
ever about his heavy jaws. hut his dress was perfection, and
his manner - Well, the less said of that the better. Sonsie
knew very well how to take care of herself, though she could

Ilk
f.~


1 - JOHN NICKSON EMBRACES THE DEACON

not.punish him for his bold looks ; but poor Mary Ann had to
bear his close approach, without shuddering, if she' could ; and
his breath ! augh!
After he was gone, she put her hands on Songe shoulders
and gazed into her face, seeking hope, and begged with dumb
lips for help ; till the good, honest girl's eyes filled with tears,
and she had hard work to force the needful smile..
Dame Williams hustled in, adjusted her cap before the mir-
ror, and dabbed her blazing face with' the powder puff.-
"There's one fool come," said she.
"Yes, mam, -he's just been up here," repliedSonsie.
"What do you mean ? You had strict orders not to let. no-
body in to see the bride and spile the effect of her costoomt
taut-onsanbal-eugkray !  Mr. Brown has taken a, -p of
pains to get them all up scrumptous. Here, Mary Ann, I. told-
you to put your diamond ring outside of your glove t You
dpn't.take no' pains to show off things. Such trouble as I and
Nickson had to pick it out too!. A real solitary ! I wouldn't
take it till the clerk fetched up his boss; and I made him war-
rant. it. ~ He  it from old Solitaire himself, so I know it's
gimuine.."
" But, mother, I've got to pull off my glove, you know; so
that I can't possibly wear it so," answered Mary Ann, who
dared not add that she hated the sight of the bauble anywhere..
"Well, well tyou needn't put the glove on, 'tinerate,, after
the ceremonyy"
The. house was full of guests. Old Miss Pettingill care
eaxly, and was comfortably swaying back and forth in her rock-
ing chair,. with the regularity of the shutje, while she wove the
woof of her 'conversation.
" Law ! " said she, " how' drefful numerous that young Brown
is! introduces everybody, and dressed up to, fits;. he 'looks as

~ OHN NICZKSON EM BRACES. THE PE ACON.       177
if he was workin' for the firm of Walker &amp; Dolittle in his store-
close ; don't he?"
".My husband's nephew, is a pufficly fastigiaus young gentle-
mainMi     ttingill, and comprehends the vocation of usher
in its minutest particularism," answered Dulcet, to whom the
remark was addressed.
" Well, I don't know but he is all that; but I yil ybecan
lk more and say less than any feller of his size l ever set4ryes
n; and there's Miss Williams ! massey! what a frock, frbe-
.ows.and flounces ! Peculiar ! howfolks.can ! theydo say--folks
does - that Mary Ann had a sneakin' notion arter ihat pisnire
of a chap herself, but her ma she sot her foot dbwn on that to
wonsj."
Mr. and Mrs. Nancesca Lankman, coming in at this unctgre,
stopped the flow of the ancient maiden's communications. Mr.
Lankman was sub-editor of the Millville Universe.  e spid his
mother was a Pole, which seemed quite likely';' he looked like
one -bean-pole ; and Mrs. Nancesca Lankman's nether n it
have been a roly-poly, for she was as round a-,  pincushion.
Jan called Mr. Lankmant" Breezy Nancy;"      ad.favoite
critique upon any book which in the least approached to spright-
liness, -"It is a breezy book;" and he was exceedingly zeal-
ous in his watchfulness over the English 'languagesn tigna.
tized as " slang" any use of the cant, queer, expressie Amen-
canisms, which are as common among our original, quip-loving
people as eshin-plasters.  e had a choice selection of
critiques, which he kept corked for use  on new works.
Sometimes he simmered them all down into one article ; but
oftener he dribbled outa few. But upon whatever subject he
discoursed, you could. ee Mr. Nancesca Lakr nan as in aglass
darkly.
Captairn Slocum happened to stan near himn  bea tak--

'1

vg '

1,
I


I

178   JOHN NICKSON EMBRACES TIE DEA CON.
ing up'the new church. Mr. Lanknman fouhd fault with it from
steeple'to foundation, and mentioned many beautiful edifices he
had seen in his recent trip abroad~ (in fact, he 'wad o much in
the habit of enriching his talk with references t = is foreign
tour, that he reminded one of the minister, who, in like case,.
commenced his invocation, one Sunday morning, "Oh, Lord,
thou knowest that when I was in Europe," and then branched
off nto art galleries, the coliseum, forum, St. Peter's and the
Appian Way).
Captair'iSlocurm listened, with a queer grin, and said, in the
first pause,-
"idnolh a  here,  L ankn an  !  isn't  your  trum peter  dead  ?"
"I do not understand the meaning of your extremely abrupt
question *sir,'}replied the sub-editor turning very red.
ell;  Lkiidei thought' mbby hefitightbe deceased, be..
cause "you've got the knack of blowing up such a bully blast
fog   Oselfj and, I say  anknan, there's going to 'be a big
con*entibn out West;all ladies invited to attend, irrespective,
of sex; oughtIto go to that;all the Miss Nancs'"11 be there.
Their's thb hei of my -reinarks. Haw, haw "
The conpany were taken up to gee the presents spread out
in the bestbed'room, and various were tie exclamations upon
their niuinber aid ahte. Tauline Bradshaw, Who was every-
where;vithDik and fGracie in her train'; "counted the soup-
ladles; -rine of them.
I say, Dick, isn't it a pity Mr. Nickson and lMaryAnn are
notBrobdignagers! "What a famous set 'of teaspoons these
wonld nake," s°id' she.
The bridegroosgift was on a salver byitself,..: fifteen hun-
dred dollars in gold. t nae   rare sh:; amd after the dere-
mony, it was taken to the bank and locked up, and she never

7OHN NIC ''ESON EMBRACES THE DEACON.         179
Mr._ Hauxhurst, with Susie Jenkins on his arm, edged in
among the procession going up to salute the bride, and laughed
as he espied Mary McCross.
"Ah, Miss Mary ! " said he ; "'We met, 'twas in a crowd,~and
I thought that you would shun me.' I wonder if you have still
identity enough left to be able to say, 'Who is my neighbor ?' "
"I hope so, though we certainly are 'pressed to remain,'
like a box of Smyrna figs."
"Yes, really," replied Cabby, who was making up Miss Mc-
Cross, "quite a crush ! I feel like a slice off Mr. Jones welded
onto a piece - of Mr. Green. Very neat idea, that ! really, -
and mafoi,-- there's Miss Adliza. She's suffering a sea change,
and quite unnecessarily too, for she's' always 'rich and rare. .I
call that good, now !
"What does it nean, Mr. Brown?" inquired Mary, inno-
cently.
"Why, don't you see she's robed in sea-green. 'Tis'quite a
crush, this, to be sure. I've said a number of neat things to-
day, but that is the best of them all," and Cabby "laughed
consumedly," and twirled his glove in high feather.
Everybody was in raptures over" the bride's dress. "Satin"
that ud stand alone," said old Miss Pattingill, 'pinching the
fabric slily in her thumb and finger'; and the refreshment tables
were much,-praised, though the Deaconess told her guests, apol-
ogetically, that it was "only a cold coalition." Adeliza Eu-
phemia had got a little speech, which she 'sported several tines
during the banquet.
"Irene! Susie! -Mr. Brown'! wont you take " ambour de
batong de dite  dng." said she.
She had picked her question word byword out of her French
dictionary for the' casion, and she considered it vey efie.

yf !
J i
I 'l  ,Y  : w
rrJ" ei .:

_,.
;
j,
i
l1  1 j
i   '
ro
I! #  ,
e;  , ;
.  } ,
!  '
s,':
p,
f.
}


180   JOHN NZCKSON EMBRACES THE DIACO0.1
tivei and Mr. Nickson, who spoke Canada French, poked her
in the side, and said--
"Pretty good, Miss, Hitchcock ! pretty good,. by a- ahem!
wont youhave a dish of coffee ? " and he swallowed down the
expletive he was about to top off his sentence with, in safety.
Mrs. Deacon Proddy and Mrs, McCross stood close to the
table, a-long time comforting the inner woman with a multi-
plicity of good things.
"Do take some of these trolloped oysters, Sister McCross,
do.".r
"Well, I don't know as I will. I've rather lost my appetite
lately,"
".I vun, Mirandy L I hope there wont nobody fnd it; it'll
ruin them if they do," replied her husband jocosely..
Deacon Williamsfollowed his daughter uy'to her room, after
the parade was over; he wiped his eyes, and sat down, and
tookjher on his knee. He hadn't enjoyed himself much; once-
or twice he had endeavored to assist in entertaining the guests,
and had been snubbed and set aside by his better-half, and he
looked chap-fallen and out of spirits; and when he questioned
the por bride's face he was very near crying.
",Never mind, pa 1 'tis only two doors off, you know ; and
yovx% come very often to see me; wont you, dear ? and we'll have
over the children, too, and be as nice and chatty together as
swallows."
But even while she talked hopefully to her downcast parent,,
she dreaded the future of that two doors off; and a dim un-
certainty floated through her mind as to how far she would be
permitted to enjoy her friends' society. But her trust in Christ
coforted her, and. she strengthened her resolution to do all the
duties sheC  f ud, mnd leave the event where her interests were
safe ; and hand in hand they descended.

JOHN NIc'KSON EMBRACES THE DEA coN.        181.
The bridegroom had disappeared from the festal scene for a
short space, and returned in overcoat and wraps, with redder
eyes and thicker utterance. He rather stumbled, than other-
wise, against his new papa-in-law, and clasped him in his arms.
 "'Oh, Romeo !'" exclaimed he, in touching accents, and a-
something approaching an interjective hitch in histh
"'Oh, Romeo ! wherefore are art thou Romeo?' I     d
Stick-in-the-mud, what do you mean by such conduct:  e?
Why is this thus?"
And he went on spouting bits of plays in jovial accen, and
showed an inclination to elevate his voice in song, aid }was with
difficulty detached from his embraced support ; and then Mary
Ann came and hung on her father's neck and kissed him.
"Good-by, pa,".she whispered ; "you've been proper good
to me; ever so much better than I deserved. I want you to
go and see Mr. Growing, and tell him we couldn't help it, and
give him our dear love ; wont you, dear, good, kind pa ? And
-take care and not get sick till I come back to you."
And then she was shut into-the carriage with her husband.
When Lord and Lady Byron were shut.in, in like manner,
we are informed that the noble lord announced to his bride.that
she had "married a wretch,M- a devil." Poor Mary Ann Nick-
son needed no, words. to tell her what she had got for a lord and
master; one look into ,his hateful eyes, one whiff of his poison-
ous breath, told- the story.
Mrs. Williams called the ushers together,-Jan, and Cabby,
and Peter, and Hauxhurst, and thanked them in picked lan-
guage, and told them she considered them " extremely offi
cious,". and plumedherself upon her choice English.
16                     *

I"


182 SONSIE TRIES TO SAY "PRETTY."

SONSIE TRIES TO SAY "PRE TTY."

CHAPTER XV.
SONSIE TRIES TO SAY "'PRETTY."
AN VEDDER took his loving young mother into his
confidence on a certain subject. She cried a little at
ngfirsand was unhappy. She wa,s a thoroughbred-lady
herself, and it seemed to her simply impossible that Jan could
staffer hi'thbghts to restupn a servant;' underbred, common !
'thacdvered the whole ground. Peter refused to eat, when
pei-ising'ef hunger, lest he should take ihto his composition
any comn oruncleal 'element.' He got a good 'lesson on
theesubjectt  which will 'beair repeating nrowadays. Princely
soukirednit always born in the imperial purple. Founders
of families'spring tip from the "common ;" they make gentle-,
folks of thimeIves by their strong purpose and clean living,
with God to help them.
"Why, mother 'I believe, on my honor as a gentleman, that
Sonsie Eagan saved me from a drunkard's grave!,'
Th!e little lady, "sitting in. her crinsonicushioned chair;
dressed in spotless' silk with dainty finish of} laces 'and jewels,
looked up at her boy, andi saw-how hearty and fresh-his face
was, and-how strong and' purposeful:l1e looked. She=knew she
had cried herself to sleep many nights : and lived through days
of pining anxiety for the safety. of this 'her only son,- her
"precious darling!" and. she rose and threw her arms around
him, and wept onshisfneck, and .bad ethim "Godespeed" with
her blessing.;.and resolved to :take up-bravely her 'part, which
was, to try to make the most she could out of theIdaughteri Jan
was thoroughly determined to give her.
Jan had already tried many choice arguments to induce Son-

sie to visit his mother in his company; but she firmly de-
clined.
"There's no occasion, sir," -said she. "Your mother is a
lady, and I can afford her no pleasure; ,and I will not be in-
truding meself upon her."
"That is not 'a proper light in which to view the the subject;"
argued Jan. "Of course, you wouldn't take a step to please
me; I know that very well. But there are many thingstabdt
the place that would be useful to you. The great library is full
of books. You might select what you like ; -there's a history of
Ireland, in ten-volumes, full of pictures, and fairy=stories,°and
religion, andeevery thing."~
"Couldn't ye be fetchhig it wid ye-some of those evenings,
Mr. Vedder?" asked Sonsie, laughing.  And is it good
stories, all about the Kelpie Queen, and The little hill'folk; and
the cauricawn, and the -elves'-gloves, and Puck the Brownie'?
You had a' right 'to bring it over, 'Mr. Vedder, or else keep
silence about it."
"No, Sonsie, 'I'll not bring it you'! If'you will come in my
company 'and pay my' mother a visit, and see my home, and all
the beautiful things 'I have to show you; I shall think you are
a good, sweet, kind' girl; and we'll have a pleasant walk to-
gether, and 'fetch back theabook to the Horseshoe, but not
else."_ .  ,'
"Well, then, Mr. Vedder, they must even bide where they
be; for I11 not go!'
Mr's.,Vedder' had-never 'visited 'Ruth Blair before her sorrow,
and she' couldnoe force herselfitpon her sedksion now, when
even old friends wen rarely admitted ; and it didn't quite suit
her ideas of her own dignity to run after.the little=Irish girl
either; she was the one to pay the visit, 'andshe must be made
to do it{'and she thought over anyiplars to accomplish it

183

I;
[LI r

1
}  i  .
'Iyl i   ..f
t    !      '
,,,  ' .
,; ;    .
;
,,1; ,--
i   .
, . ; ;  ,
,  . ", ,
i    )     f  i,
i    ,     , '
} Si  ,
1       t           #   4
'   t  t
1      t
I   w
ff
,.
f   '   i

182


184     SONSIE TRIES TO: S4 V ".PRETTY."

naturally; 'and also many plans for her son's .good ; and loved
him tenderly, and took occasion to talk often upon the subject
which lay dearest above his heart.
" You need not fear her thrusting herself upon you for' a
daughter ! I doubt if I can ever win her; shedoes not love me;
nordoes she dreamthat I loveher. She keeps all her powers
qent  d upon the education she is resolved to have.  She
talkswith me, as with a gentleman who was about to ruin him.
self and his mother ; whom she stretched out a hand to save;
butshe gives me more estimation than belongs to me there;
she does not know how much I owe to her. She credits me
with strength of purpose I haven't got ; she is thg good angel,
who held me back from disgrace. It is the hope of winning her
for niy wife that keeps me now. She lets me walk with her,
when she can't help it; and she tells nie plenty of plain blunt
truths; -and she. pumps me for the knowledge, she thirsts for ;
but there is .always a great gulf between us. I 'am afraid I
widened it that day on the hill, by my own folly.. You see,
mother, I didn't know her, and I didn't stop to think; and, in
short I madea mean cowardly speech to her, and I know she
can'tforget it; I've seen it, in her face and ,manner since a
thousand times. She is proud; her pride folds her aboutlike a
mantle;! she :isalways the poor Irish girl; and I am the' gen-.
tleman -nothing to her in any. way. She urges me to be use-
ful,to. help hunganity ;and jeers, with her subtle, sharp wit, at
my idle, purposeless life. But, mother, she never links her fu-
ture with nie, never! .d ie walked in -low places unsoiled, and I,
carefully kept, luxuriously attended, fell t-hat's the view
she takes of the case. You see how slender a chance I have
to ,eve make her lo  me
"She wis   togo to schogl,you say? ?"  ' '
"Oh! she wishes it; but not enough to be indebted to me

SONSIE TRIES TO SAY "PRETTY."            185
for it. I urged and argued my best ; and I got plain ' no' for
my answer. She'll get her education, though; she is, getting it.
every day. Mrs. Blair says her progress is like a miracle. Oh
yes, she'll get it : and she'll work herself to death ; she'll be a
broken-down, faded teacher after a while, in spite of me. And
I have the money she needs, and the love she don't want;- you
see, mother, money isn't of any value ! I believe I'll go to
China or Hindostan or the South'pole 1"       .-.
"What plan of useful life does she propose to you,my boy?"
asked Mrs. Vedder, who could not bear the notion of Jan, leav-
ing her and becoming a rover again.
" A mission school and chapel, just now. She works there,
heart and soul, mother; it would do. you good to see how those
rough boys respect and obey her. The fact is, I, don't believe,
Sonsie Eagan will ever get married. She is so full of doing
good to the many, I doubt if she will ever bring herself to
love the one ; and if she does, a reformed-drunkard will not be
the man !
"Don't speak in that way of yourself, Jan, my dear; I do not
like to hear you" said Mrs. Vedder, laying her hand upon her
son's arm. "So this wonderful girl wishes you to build a
chapel, does she ? What will it cost'?"'
" Six hundred dollars or so ; I suppose, there's a lot of lumber,
and odds and ends of stuft left over from our- church that I
could buy. cheap."
"'Take a thousand, Jan, and buy a lot, and commence: direct-
ly ; and I'll furnish it for you. You make me laugh at you,
my darling I , She, not love you/ you forget, I think who'- you.
are. The Vedders:are a good oldfamily, and as ?or  Til-
linghasts ! there isn't better blood in the country I There's
never been a politician, or a strong-minded woman among
-16*

, i      } .
.
'      .
;    ( _
,  i   ±     +
'  i 3-''   ;j'    V

1 :
i
f
I
i
f
{" 1
f; {
Iti
;, ",
.

t
It
a
E'
f
t
t
IF jtF
j     j'  4rr
1   '117
rj ' E

' 1=
;
,
St
'" f .
i _    .
= i


188

SONSIE TRIES TO SAY "PRETTY.",

them, since they first came over, - but plenty of gentlemen
and ladies.
Jan took up his mother's small, jeweled hand and kissed it.
"EDear little aristocrat !" said he, "you fear that your demo-
cratic boy will- bring taint to your pure blood. Ah.! you don't
know Sonsie Eagan ! Nature made her a lady."
"Well, Jan, bring the lady to me ; let me see and judge foi
myself. Tell her the price of the chapel is a visit to Brook-
edge, and leave the rest to me."
"%Why, mother ! she'll never. come ! It will be of no use ;
she'll laugh at me. She's got. the merriest blue eyes, mother !
and the prettiest cherry mouth, and such dimples in her cheeks!
you never saw the like !  She'll tell me to go and do my duty
like a man; and leave her time to do, hers. She always sets
her hands on her hips, and looks at me over her shoulder when
she-is suspicious or excited."
'"True Irish fashion," thought the mother ; but she said,''She
will come, Jan, if she is the good, earnest girl, you think her."
"Well, mother, I'll try once more, -;".Jan, shook his head,
-_ "but I'r-afraid 'tis useless."
That very afternoon, Jan called at the Horseshoe, where he
11  always had the entree, and found Sonsie just at the tail-end of
the week's ironing (she would do all the work of the house.
Ruth was not. permitted to wet her'fingers ; teaching, ,being in
Sonsie's opinion, sufficiently exhausting, with the care of Pigeon
and the sewing), and her. hands were always busy, her head
I    clear and cool, and her lessons never-failing. She often got
help fromJan; when Ruth was shutinto her room, or out for
the d    alk, she compelled herself to take, with her boy for
companion. Her boy! who was daily growing more like his
fatherland who was so rosy and healthy. and happyfull of tricks
and pranks and sportive mischief.-

SONSIE TWZES TO SA Y "PRETY."

187

"But 'mid w his dafin', sic kindness he shows,
He's as dear to her heart as.the dew on the rose."
In truth, Ruth scarcely knew how much' Pigeon helped to
keep her heart alive, ahd her courage up.  "I have him to love
me, whatever comes," she said sometimes; "and he'll be a good
true man after a While. I must take such care of myself that he;
will he 'feel no shame in looking at his mother. Ruth was a dar.
ling bud of a woman,- when she thus glanced "adown the vale
of time" to Pigeon's manhood; and so good and judicious a
mother as deserved every thing from the child to the man.
She gave him his father's name, but not at the baptismal
font. On that fateful day when she questioned her soul in the
sudden stillness of her newloss, and learned that she was alone,
she perceived that her child's face was wet with tears, which
had dropped from her own eyes; and she signed the cross upon
its forehead,' and in those holy drops which welled'up ffom her
breaking heart, she christened him George, "in name of the un-
divided trinity." *  She was a good Protestant, but in her weary
trouble Christ was her nearest friend, her best helper; aaid she
thought it rno sin to consecrate her darling by the sign of his
Holy suffering,
Ruth liked Jan, and believed in him sincerely; her own griefs
had not closed her heart to outside good; and she took=the
liveliest interest in Sonsie and the greatest-care of her; planning
for her, 'teaching and helping her, so that every day: was a step
up the ladder; 'and we know how ardently the young Irish las-
sie enacted the part of the little mouse to her dear friend and
mistress, as she would call her.
"Can you' walk with me this afternoon; Sensie'?" asked Jan.
"I want your advice.   have nearly made up my mind to set
our chapel'inoperation, and 'you must help me  elet the site.'
* This beautiful idea isborrowed from that rare writer, F. W. Shelton.

{ i ;   ;
ail , y
,   " I
',   ,
;j      ,
I.
i    i
f
. . j'     i

i
1,    =    i     F
11         ''_J
}
1, 1  i
tint! 4  i;y "
yy

;r'
,'r
sti ;'
1 i;,i
}', ,.


188

SONSIE TRIES TO SAY 'PRETTY."

f ST i11
t i t
[
al   .
,  {
!   i
7 I   'r
}i ,
,,.
{
;,,E,.
~
,   ,,
lf   i
i
j..1f i
'   ,
{il
i.,
f.; f '
'' + ;1
:
i   t'i
k i
r , j
..  i.l .
;' "  1
ili ,
ii(,;
,,
,; ,
'.,;
,, ,
R

SONSIE TRIES TO SA Y "PRETTY."

189

Sonsie looked into her basket.,. " A walk, sir ! I don't know
about that. I've a deal to finish yet, but I'll work me best.
Why, Mr. Vedder, sir, what ails your cheek ?"
Sonsie pointed her finger at a purple promontory on the young
man's face, angry and swollen,-one of those beauties which gave
such zest and variety to the experience of good old Job.
"I'm trying to cut a swell," he replied, passing his hand gin-
gerly across the spot,
"To cut a swell, is it, sir ! then why don't ye send for Dr.
Jenkins sure, he'll cut it for yer, as neat as a cat licks her ear."
"Never mind your jokes, Sonsie. I was not in safety, neither
had I rest, neither was I quiet ; yet trouble came. Tell me
you'll come out with me. My mother enters warmly into our
chapel plan, and promises to furnish it for us."
" Now I call that. nice of yer mother ! and you are really
going to do a good thing at last. I'm more gladder then I can
tell you!"
" Say 'gladder,' or 'more glad,' Sonsie, if you please ; 'more
gladdet' is bad English."
It is good Irish, then, sir ; but I thank you for taking the
trouble to improve me language, and I'll try hard to remem-
ber. I'll go out with you. ,I said 'with,' sir. She smiled
archly. "Did ye mind that, now!"
" Yes; Sonsie, I see .you are Irish clear through."
"Yes, troth and I am; descended from Milesius and Japhet ;
shall I tell you the rest of it while I am smoothing the linen,
or will you help me with, me English history?"
Jan took up the book and read aloud the lesson, and ex~
plained and enlarged it with knowledge of his own, and descrip-
tions of the scenery he had travelled-over (much of it on foot
in the most Bohemian fashion, -knapsack on hisback and oak

1             SI

stick in hand); and by the time the clothes were all on the horse
the lesson was finished, and Sonsie thanked him warmly.
"I'll just run and freshen up myself a bit," said she, "and
be ready."
Jan looked at her and thought she was as fresh as a rose al-
ready, and sat still thinking over her piquant utterances, and
sharp crisp ways, till she came down hooded in green, and well
wrapped in peach-meat. Jan would have given her no end of
dresses if he had dared, but her sturdy independence, was al-
ways in his way, and he never;ventured to offer her so much
as a pair of gloves. She was tidy and presentable always, and not
wanting either in little finishing articles, -collars, cuffs, and rib-
..                                          .-
bons; and as for shoes ! no princess ever went in trimmer guise.
I'm afraid Sonsie was a little proud of her foot ; at any rate, she
always trod with a light step, and airy. And she could keep a
brisk pace for miles, without showing fatigue; her cheeks would
flush crimson, and her eyes laugh in merry light, while she tossed
off her oddities, answering the teazing, Jan loved to engage her
in.. And her breath came evenly from her expanded chest, and
her good lungs felt no uneasiness. She never told how she
furnished herself with what she needed, -clear-starching, fluting
and knitting, - nor how she sewed odd times ; all that she con-
sidered her own affair. She would accept nothing from Ruth
except board and education; and- those she meant honestly to
earn. Mary Ann Williams, Mrs. Nickson now, was permitted
to contribute a little sometimes ; but she had been useful to
Mary Ann, and the poor timid woman leaned on the strong girl's
strength.
They walked steadily and enjoyingly on through the glen
and over Hogsback, and came down around the pinnacle, and
by common impulse they paused before an enclosure, - akpas-
ture lot of four ior five acres, bordered on oneside by Roaring

I E
}I'f I'

f,             {
'      ,
" !' -
,, , , -,
#" ,-      ' a
.
.  '
{4 f
f
t'
,i ;  j
1. ,,
,


' iii ti
i    i ;,
,
!'  f!  t
is ;{;,4
'  :
{'
,;i E';
r,1 !s '

190

SONSIE TRIES TO SAY "PRETTY."

River, overlooked:by the pinnacle, and backed by gentle hills,
among whose pretty dells and wooded shelters lay the village
dead. Two or -three sheep, some half grown calves, and the
cow ponies, were feeding there, nibbling the hay, rubbing about
the stack and sunning themselves by its side.
"Captain Slocum's meadows," said Jan.
"A sweet, purty, quiet place, Mr. Vedder," replied Sonsie,
richly rolling her "r's"
"'Pretty,' Sonsie ; do try to say 'pretty.' I wish you could
remember."
Sonsie,'nothing discomposed, pronounced the word again and,
again, but it would twirl in her utterance in spite of all her care
as it always did when she was pleased or excited.
"-Indade, Mr. Vedder, ye never spake a truer word than that
just now, I'm Irish lane through.".
"I;daresay Captain Slocum would sell this piece," said Jan,
after looking at her a moment. . How would you like it for our
mission"
"I think it will be.just splendid, sir."
"Very well, Sonsie; before I move an inch in it, I'll make a
bargain with you."
"A bargain, sir!" Sonsie's head was up, and her suspicions
alert directly.
"aYes, Sonsie, a compact ; so much for so much ; a premise
to pay for value received; you must consent to go and make
my bother a visit."
".That's vey square of you, sir! Mayhap you've forgotten our
interestin' conversation on that same subject. I don't at all see
S    the connection.; I think I gave you your answer that time."
"Answer is the -Latin. for goose, and you're one," said Jan,
pettishly. " If I tried to remember all the silly hing you say,
I should have my head so full of nonsense, that it would quite

SONSIE TRIES TO SAY "PRETTY."

191

drive out my education ; and where would your Irish history be
then? By the way, I was looking into that large one in the
library this morning; it's from the time of Japhet till now, and
full of pictures, and the whole life of St. Patrick,,and a full
length engraving of him, with his foot' on a - snake, and the
martyrdom of St. Eliph, son of the king, who gave up vast
possessions, being persuaded that it was delightful to serve God
in poverty. That would just suit you, Sonsie."
" Mr. Vedder, what is the Latin for 'teaze'?" asked Sonsie,
with a laugh in her eyes.
"Well, Ollan Folda the stubborn, the whole thing lies
packed in a nut-shell, -no visit, no chapel. I have as good a
right to my whims as you to yours; and if you ask me to spend
my time and money for a wish of yours, the least you can do is
to comply gracefully with any little proper request I feel in-
clined to make; at any rate, I wont move a finger tillyou
gratify me 'in this. - It will be a useful lesson-to you; teach you
to respect the wishes of others, which you haven't thusfar
learned to do, as you ought ; and it is but a trifle after all."
"An' is it a thrifle-that ye deem it, sir, for me to put meseif
out of me station and forget; the hole of the pit from :whence I
was rigged, and go visiting to a lady, like yer mother, and let
her take notice of me poor English, and  I be hurted at it? No,
no ! Mr. Vedder; wait a couple of years, till I've me 'idication."
"But my mother wishes to see you, Sonsie; she has often
heard me speak about you and she bid me askyou to come;
she was much moved by the;ready presence of mind and agile
action you, used to save those poor little children. Rainbow
took a fansy:to: my other the first time he followed-me home,.
and he lies.in her cushion, nearly'every day.- She is, not a very
formidable person, Sonsie. Ollan Folda need not:fear her;she
is not nearly so tall as you."

i

i
's
t i 1
3,
IF'
i
qoi l
! li i   t ra J ' .

y.
f
i   ,
1 1
r 1
}
i
1
1     ,
S .
' E
i        ,


SONSIE TRIES TO SAY "PRETTY."

,i,,
',
E 1
i "-
'i,,+
'   ,
.
a' , -i
ft.1i,
I        +}I
j   " !,
:, s    i=.
'r,      ;
it  il i..
f
_     '    '
I i    ''  '
f ",,, ti

"She's comfortable lookin', sir, and nothing fearsome. I've
seen her often riding her purty mare, and looking out of her
carriage window, and I've stopped to look at her, too, working
among her-flowers ; she's fashioned from different pottery than
me. I'm sorry ye make such a coil about this visit, sir ; I don't
like being called Ollan Folda the stubborn, and if there's- ary
thing I could do for your bonnie mother I'd go to her right
willingly."
" There is, Sonsie ! I'm sure there is," replied Jan, eagerly ;
"she'll tell you all about it."-
Sonsie fixed her eyes upon the 'young fellow, and read him
through and through.  "It's true for ye, Sonsie Eagan ; the pair,
of them have talked ye over. This gentleman is getting it into
his head that he will like to marry wid the Ulster weaver's
daughter-; and the. mother will have me to coom and be' looked
over, to see if I'll do.. She does not know Sonsie Eagan ; but if
she thinks she's the girl as will help him to make a fool of his-
self, after stretching up her hand to pull him into his right
path, she need. not be a bit worried. I'll mate with a clean-.
skinned O'Rouke, plase God. It would kill me entirely to be
looked down upon. I'll never be helping meself to such a lot..
No, no ! Mr. Vedder, sir ; yer very kind I'm sure, and I hope
yer quite reformed; indeed I truly believe ye are ; but I've no
call to be loving' any one just now, and Ithink a handsome'
young Irish lad with a wise head 'on his shoulders, stuffed full
of idication ; and his blue eyes, merry wid divilment, would
just please me better nor any Dutch Yankee at all, when I
make upi me mind to double nieself. FIl go. and see - the lady
in course, sir. -She makes this coil about it, and she'll aisy see
there's nothing the least to fear."'
To -Jan's surprise, she said, with her eyes full-of fun, and one

*

of the bright, wide-awake looks into his face, both fearless and
modest, which he liked so much,
" I'll go right away with you, Mr. Vedder, since you and
your mother are .so kind as to step down and invite me up.
Indade if that is the hinge, I'll be turning on it directly, and
the poor boys shall not be kept out of their fine chapel by me.
Right glad will Dennie be, sir ; he's boot-black at the Millville
House ; my biggest brother, and a brave lad he is ; we've the
rest of the children to home along of the babby.  There's a
deal of Eagans, sir, and as poor as poor can be. I'm not able
to speak much about them in the old country, but* all of us
here, is hewers of wood and drawers of water. Dennie and me,
we used to sweep the crossings ; and you couldn't believe how
hungry we used to get those times."
She watched him curiously as she talked; he did not ine
at her plain statements, but said regretfully,---
" Don't tell me so, poor child ! I cannot bear to.hear it. I
was throwing away money by handfuls, and trying to get rid of
myself as well; you did not catch me up one minute too soon."
Sonsie flushed all over, and tears sprang to  her eyes. "Oh
sir, what a good noble life you are able to lead with your money
and your manhood !"
Jan glanced quickly at her : he was always hoping for some-
thing when she spoke like that ; and was alw ys getting disap-
pointed. She was not looking at him, but her swimming eye's
were fixed upon the gray 'sky beyond, and her bosom swelled
with the thoughts she had no words for. He sighed and forced
down the utterance which trembled on his lips.  "You come
and help me, Sonsie ; be my guide as you are my saviour"
She wasso self-reliant, so independent, and put herself sofar
away from him in every thought ; she showed so unconsciously,
but so plainly, that she was engrossed with workingout her plans

t{ t '1

192

SONSIE TRIES 10 SA Y -4 "FRE TT Y."

193


$ ZOE WALSINGHAM ENGAGES A -"MAID."
in her own way, as fixed and constant of. purpose, As she was
strong, straightforward, and honest ; and her way lay so remote
from his. Poor- Jan! he was quite, disheartened, and her ac-
ceeding t his request, gave him, after all the trouble, he had
taken'but little pleasure.
CHAPTER XVI.
ZOE WALSINGHAM ENGAGES A " MAID."
E'old Vedder' estate down on the flats, and on both
sides of Roaring River, comprised hundreds and hun-
dreds of acres, and was' farmed by many tenants.
Vast orchards piled -up their fruit; cranberry marshes, which
were a fortune in 'themselves.  The wood-lots, which 'were
forests of giant trees ; the hbp-yards and tobacco fields ; and
young Jan, who loved Sonsie Eagan, and was the only son of
his mother, was heir to them 'all. --The estate had been under
the care of Cousin'Vedder, as he was called, who superintended
the whole, and invested the proceeds. Jan's wants were al-
*ays munificently supplied, and every thing looked prosperous
and 'correct.  Of late the -young man had 'been thoughtfully
watching Peter Bradshaw and turning over matters in his mind ;
and now-that his twenty-first birthday had passed, he fully de-
termined to try his' hand at' managing his own' affairs ' -e
spoke about it to his mother, who expressed the fullest'faith in
his capacity 'and rejoicel inthe hope of keeping him near her.
H -alsotalked it'over with Peter, who was enthusiastic in sup.
prt    his.'resolution ;i 'and the two carried the an to Peter
p~r4' whio likewise approved, but very carefully; 'then Jan

ZOE WALSINGAAM ANGAt2sw 'A     am

owned that a look intothe books:'and account had, m de hii
uneasy and suspicious.:. There "we:&amp;reta nt disre nies:he
could not' harmonize..{ Much timber, hadrdsppaedana
good leal of stock sold, t whielk';hadot br:oiutAhe frofeo
the estate; 'which ,might haVe fbeyaiobkedfor; dde&amp;r
strict investigation, in which; J4n beggd thedr
sist him, 'PeterJfre advised himto send otsir IVeddtribou
his business 'wth that wicked fleain bi-rwhon  zn)
sueth, and promised advice and assistance; .and Peter.;"'the
younger was. fierce to.help hir get horseerlkes, and lbrse-
rollers, and threshing-machines, and' root lot all the'enants;
.                   .   outl. te-
and farm. his own lands, and; half envied hin :thesc.eun
which he could do it. .'And so, to Cdusia Vedderts ini&amp;es
tonishment, who had no' idea of the min' apott o . ig
upon him, the young. heir'equestedr',im 't+rfaerj'lis ge
elsewhere, arid locked up the':safea.4ndpu the  r ais
pocket.
Peter found Jan an apt schoiari; 'arid the strongood-
fellows enjoyed their farming hugely. Jan held opinions %fJij
own, too, upon some subjects, and knew flmly as nuch as-;ter ;
and their arguments upon the mooted"po ints .:ere: nls
Jan held to Houdans,'and :Pete:swore. by Dirkings. Ja said
Peter shut up hit horses too much.'  ti. I$'  4".."
"If you want to' make a large horse,' ust-=ack hin uphin the
stable and stuffs hit full of food  butidfyou desire:a gdo4err
viceable roadster; let:him':'have::;the run of'the!'yard andgive
him coarse grairi along with his 'nash." . n:'l.:r==
Jan had imported, for his mother soine*pilendidIGalcuttz
swan fans,'" with twenty-six feathers in"i their taiss.' Petr
wanted 'a pair 'for Zoe; but as Jart-hadia usefrthefrtoupie
he had to tell his fnend the why ofit. At'whicdiPeter loked
very grave, and took time tothink before, givhig iis opinion.

tI         y
I d.


1##    ZOE  WNSINGr      2N   4G"S A "MAID."
He had often seen Jan walking with the Ulster maiden, and
thought his own thoughts on the subject; but would not speak
them unless it was necessary, and very glad was he to find him
true and manly beyond his suspicions. But such a marriage !
he shook his head,-and  ade up his mind to confide in Zoe ;
fully expecting she would. turn up her nose in scorn, and despise
Jan for low-mindedness. There's no telling:what a woman will
do in-such cases,and Peter opened his eyes wide in astonish..
ment.
"WhatI send her to school and marry her afterwards ! Oh,
Peter, how tice and romantic ! and so noble of Jan ! So few
men can see virtues under poverty. I declare I must shake
hands with him, and thank him in the name of the sex;,and I
should like to help him. She's good: and pretty, too. I was
looking at her,last Sunday, in Mission School. She talked
earnestly; and her cheeks were-like roses; and really, Peter,
she has a lady's hand and foot (Zoe glanced, at her own little
slipper). You may tell Jan from-me that I highly approve his
plan"
«You haven t forgotten that she is a- servant, Zoe; like
Bridget, your housemaid ?"
"She's quite different, silly Peter ! Bridget is not in the least
pretty. You're a nice Democrat, aren't you? Didn't we1have
a President who was a tailor, and who couldn't read till his wife
taught him? Let everybody find their level, I say. I mean to
go right away and see Sonsie, and encourage her."
"Well, Zoe, you are a trump ! I am ratherglad, though, that
you ,are a boti lady ; I have no fancy for 'moulding a wife ;'
but I like Jan, and I hope-he hasn't made a mistake. He is a
thoroughly whole-hearted fellow, and has gota will, too. He
persists in sticking up-for Kerry.cows; because they're Irish,
perhaps. Yo know, Beecher says, 'dirt is'so good for people

2oztWHASZANGMtM AAGAcS          M     y    iOr
that God rolls them in'it every third or fourth generation ;and
we can't any of us go back too far and not-°stumble upon
something queer. I know there was a Bradshaw hung-in Bos.
ton in colonial times, for stealing a sheep."
"That's nothing remarkable.  Those old Puritans rather
liked hanging people as a pastime; it agreed  ith their consti-
tutions."
"But the best of this affair is, Zoe, that Jan is afraid.Sonsie
Eagan wont have him. He has made no progress at all thus
far."
" That's because she's proud, Peter.; afraid of being looked
down upon ; as she gets on, and grows sure of herself, she'll feel
different. But, Peter, I as good as knew all this before; I've
been observing Sonsie a-good while. You know,We found her
long ago, down to the old school-house ; and Chris and we
gave her her first start. I'll take hold in right earnest now;
I'll go this evening, and I'll let her understand that I'm her
friend."
Sturdy Peter pondered this answer some time, and renewed
his conviction that whatever Sonsie Eagan might be, Zoe Wal-
singham was certainly the most wonderful girl in the world:
Fired with ardor, -Zoe dressed, in her complete, deliately
elegant fashion, andpresented herself at the Horseshoe. The
door was-opened by Sonsie; ho had on a clean checked apron,
and held a knife, and a half-pared apple inther hand; and
though she paused in her merry lilt, the niirthoef it til janced
in her 'eyes.
"How do you do, Sonsie ?" said Zoe, offering her' gloved-fn-
gers. "Im glad to fnd you at home"
"Thanks, Miss. Walsingham; but Irs. Blair is out for her
walk ; she'll be sorry indeed to miss you."
"But. I came to see you, Sonsie; Ii comigIn for a ehat"

t HI4
1        f
tf+
,'  ytt1  r
1'      f
F     t
~
i    f
I
,
t"t
e}f -5
i
1       t
i
r
±  r  t
,
f ;.
1
1,   1       S  1
II


WS kQ K9AhI~fM CGGS A EMAID.'
replied Zoerather cooled by: Sonsie's-quiet-behavior; but try-
ing to fel. at ease, and look gay and sociable.
. Sonsie. sat down. on:.a distant chair, after her visitor had
placed herself to her liking; and waited. for ier to open her
budget; rand she glancedtup atthe:;clock: in the corher. She
had. a. certain amount: of.i business to accomplishh before bed-
time, and not too many minutes to finish it in.
..at.you to tell melhoim you are 'getting on, Sonsie.
Yoi studyn.Rth's school,' ado-you ibt ?'2. 
"Not in school just, Miss Zoe; I put such time as I can get
from me. housewo e into me ,lessons."
" Do" you;f'id;--ahem4-!--have you any troubles in your
path, Sonsie'?"
"None but I am mistress of, thank you!" replied Sonsie,
clearr.eyed and attentive'  ''.
.."": There goes Jcr  eder i" exclaimed.' Zoe,* looking down
the street;the shited her ground: a little, and took up the
familiar style). "How his hair ,curls !  I wonder if it takes
root at botli~ ends I"                            . . ..
Iild4 think it might, ma'4m," repliedSonsie,. as if the
topics were_ ie etside her range of subjects. - .
'e fond it impossible  go on., Sh&amp;.;cpuldn'traffer service
t   'pers awe didnotheed rit nor.helphto such sef-con-
tained eatge as this andas fo.ofriendship l'the young
Irish galacemed     nnei' rendered.allinention. of itinfeasi-
ble.. Th    aeZ   look d;atler, the'niorde'she admired her.'
There could be no two opinions as to her beauty,-.realIrish
beauty though:; .adu'fh   she was thinking ho v she  would
begin afresh, so as to get eldcser -to then prdadamaidn she
wised:tQ bereft; nd s..to inspife'hr ithednfideice and
friendship for herself, Mary Arnviekson opend'th  door,
a'id alked f~riiar1 l i SOiasi.e'seand pnta bt btheftwo

ZO   rW ALSINGIIAM ENGA GES A "MAID."       199'
arms, and when her visitor ..threw. herself into them, she kissed
her over and over.
" You, look- tired, mavourneen !" said she, in a cheery, ca-
ressing voice. "Come,. leave off your cloak, and rest a bit."
"No, Sonsie, I cannot ; I came for you to drive with me
the carriage. is. at the, door, and the horses are troublesont
aboutstanding. I want a realnice old-time talk. How proper
good it is to see you ! Sometimes I wish I could get sick
again,. so's you'd have to come and nurse me. Your cheeks
are as rosy as ever, and your friendly eyes !  You love me,
don't you?
"In course.I do, dear; I couldn't choose but love my pet;
but I can't get out this night. I'm sorry, since you want me;
but I'm  making pies, and. my Spanish bun is as light as
feathers. I mustn't leave me work, you know. How hand-
some your carriage is, .dear."
"Yes, very handsome," answered Mrs. Nickson, with a dis-
appointed sigh.
Zoe-rose.
"I hope, you will come and see, .me, Sonsie. You are not
always baking buns, I suppose,"':said she, offering her hand.
Sonsie stepped backs4,and smiled,           . z
"When aI'  no hamdng, I'm washing, or ironing, or cooking,
Miss Zoe.  I havent many spare moments, like you yongg
ladies, you know, that. have naught .to do but. seek your
pleasure."-
"Don't reproachme with myridleness. I'1l come and get,
lessons from   h yo, how to use my minutes; may I, Sonsie ?'
"Sure it is laughing that you are, Miss Walsinghamn; but I'd
be glad to sergeyoun y way I ould; you were very kind those
times:;I haven't frgotten,"
"Never mind all that now, Sonsie; that was ever so long

i
" '1


200    ZOE WALSINGHAM '    NG4GES A "MAID."
ago; but you must come and see me. I insist, I want to in.
troduce you to my mother."
Sonsie laughed as she shut the door upon her visitor. "The
dickens is in all these gentlefolks, I think," said she; "they're
determined I shall know their mothers."
Zoe went home mortified and discouraged, and wondering.
at her ill success. She had seen Sonsie frolic with Pauline and
Gracie, and had heard her talk with Mary McCross, on mission-
subjects, as one friend talks. with another, and give opinions,
and suggest plans, which were solid and valuable. But, though
discouraged, she had no idea of giving up ; and after an evening
with Peter, she went again to the Horseshoe, and made - the
Ulster maiden an offer.
"We are going in a party to New York, Sonsie, to purchase
the wedding things, and I want you with us to help. I shall be
so busy and. full of shopping; and there are heaps of affairs
which require attention; and if you'll say 'yes,' I shall take it
as a real favor. In fact, I must have you! I can't be married
satisfactorily to myself unless you will."
"And is it to be yer maid, Miss Zoe ?" asked Sonsie, with
her head up. "Ye'd be a gay little mistress, anyhow."
" You can pat it that way, of course, if you like, Sonsie: I
should rather you would say ' companion,' and should like you
to saY 'friend,' if such a strong, useful person as you could feel
friendships for a May-iy, like me. But I'm 'going to be good
now; I must have you by some title, and I'll pay you any thing
you please, foi your double and loss of time.  Jr minutes
are so precious, you make them tell; and indeed it'shall not
be my fault if you don't enjoy the trip. We'll see all the places
of interest; all the picture galleries,"and those, and I thin the
days so spent would be quite as educating as any you could get

ZOE WALSINHAM ENGA GS 'A"MAID."           201
in -Roaring -River ; and, Sonsie, you shall go shopping, and
help me buy my dresses and shawls and every thing !"
"And the changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and
the bonnets, and the ornaments for the legs, and the head-
bands," said Sonsie laughing. "Oh yes, Miss Zoe, it would be
rare indeed; and will Miss Chris be of your party? You said
'we,' Ithink."
" No, Sonsie, not that I know of; but Sabrina and her mother
are going, and Peter, has asked- Mrs. Vedder -a-n-d perhaps
Jan also."
"Oh 1" replied Sonsie. Then after a moment she answered,
"I'll go, Miss Zoe,- if me mistress gives me leave; and I'll serve
you faithfully."
Sonsie's feelings were curiously mingled, as she questioned
with herself aftera"Zoe departed. "Aid is" it',a-step 'upward
that yer takin', 'Sonsie, me lass, from Miss Ruthie's kitchen, into
Zoe Walsingham's service? but 1111 go anyhow, I think; -and
I'l buy that dun cow for my mother ; she's just fretting' for to
have the wee creature; and I'll get the shirts for Dennie,' and
there's that mite of a Christie 'Malone,-'he shall have a stout
coat that'll fit him, and- that'll be a'white day for the-dirty Vega -
bond ; and T11 make Mystie come and stop'in dfy place-till I
get back ; and I'll see a' bit of the world, with me two good
eyes ; and I'll go over the old street, where Dennie andnme
starved, wid the cold and: hunger those nights; and I'll' show
Miss Zoe and the rest, that I khow who I am-entirely."
Ruthwarmly approved;. and though nothing had been said
to her about the school scheme, she thought her own 'tiouightsi
as to Jan's fondness 'for her young friend's society; and while
she carefully observed,,she felt no call to interfere. Sonsie was
so proud and-right-rminded, and Jan so out-spoken and istraight-
forward. For some unexplained reason, the Celtic lassie failed

.   (       9
'              )c
1
'R             y
?
1
'  ,,fi     -
I  1f          r;
!!   !
!' '  I            .
,:,
,

es           s.
f 1  1      u
F        / i
c i,    1 ti f
F   f       - S
1   t
i
L I I
?  f  i  I
f,  t     }
I
jt
f   i I f  , r '.I  4111, ^  s
1


WA~    ZOBE WAI4%IVGAUAM $VGACS A "MAID."
t ehtirthe'.projected ,seMdee,,and its conseqcenttrip, to
Jan ; and he said nothing; on,.the subject, lest she should fly off,
and disappointhim of his expected pleasure; and the long step
he ,hoped ta; make.=It wouldseem-that, what with church
pilding, gnd beae of his estate Ja had lost enough to4
d d Sonsids}eesgat Ms p  Poseless idleness were some-
thing ill-imed and malapropos; but he had not confided to her
hi, A1ans;Hel_$1 d bett to draw her out,. anan excite- the
4141. flw .of  eon t  with. which gave back such sharp
retorts to his teazing ; and dole out to her such scraps of
knowledge as sh eagerly soiglwfor. infectt, JanVedder had
lite  o-is inhismpositio :.he did not thi ktoo highly of
himself-and was more likely to do a great, deal' without
speakingof it, that1speak a.great-deal without doingany thing
the4 manner of ne is. He was tolerably well read, and
see.v.y usach .fthe woyld its highways and byways.
T osix  s even years he had been travelling hither and thither
faoretth      i hjdsof histime buso little:sho did he make
of his acquireients, that his aquintaces were in the habit
of coisiderin  hi a "gadish-sort. of fellow," with social
qwaties,   1. the girls were .~ty Afirai4 to ,.on~de in him, and
dskhigvice, ipo.all.sorta of qems 'ubjects,and his assist-
ance, .whichthey Were sure tf, enever needed. Captain
Slca thoghtnthe._werld of him; and as for Miss.Dulcet, she
said   f' knew intiaately: a youthful *ennemsole who was
desirous of ;ndertaking the soli4rity of the connubial relation,
Could c heerfully.hention and recommend to suchfemmesole's
particular ,notice cand consideration, my yg ung-fiend, Mr. Jan
Vedder .= He is untumultuous,but not unappreciative a. most
afueet arnd agreeable''onversati rist, and a guest to' be desired
by anyhousewife whO prides:herself upon the perfection of her

ZOE WALSINGIfAM ENGAGES A "MAID."

203

Jan showed a' capacious grasp of business, and a zealous
aptitude for dispatch of the same, which delighted the two
model farmers who had him in training.
" He's his father's son for digging," said Mr. Bradshaw. "I
think he'll make a man."
"I think so too,father," replied Peter. indeede, I'mn  of
it ; because he is a long way on-that road already, you
"And we'll standby him Peter, my boy: 'he..usY
permitted to buy his business. experience to:dearly."
"So we will, father; ands help him whenever we see that he
is not up to helping himself. . 1I wish you would give himyr
opinion of those Kerry'cows:; tell-him they are t worth' aush,
and talk up Ayreshire.  And then about. washing sweated
horses.: he's agot ita in his headetQ build a regular bathrhouse,
such as he saw at 'Duckinghan Palace(in.}natureof course);
and talks about keeping men purpose to: wash :andcrub
and scrape 'his bloodhorsessummer andwiFter ' f.'  iuthie i d
water    eticksup that it.will uitheu awel-as-.itdAes
him; 'and he's a regularold duck for {codated?'-ir  -
"He 'does ?-the youngrascal es'Wel W wel'ILh a
talk with hiuright away4.danddf I-canseerit, why we" havea
bath-house tooeter, 'my boy. There's*Silberprngumg
right past our stableyouknow. Cold water, hey's
,  ,  r .  .  "      '  '        , ' , , T v  ,  {  9 . - .  + - F 4   .1

N

I     '
f
Id -
f
- 1Y

" I      ii  i


SONSIE NAMES THE    LT.E COL

CHAPTER XVII.
SONSIE NAMES THE COLT "OLLAM FOLDA."
ND now the Irish lassie had promised to pay a visit to
Jan's mother. The mansion was 'steep-roofed, many
chimneyed, ample and commodious. It was set down
in the middle of a garden, full of old-fashioned flowers. The.
great-grandfather Jan, had been ajealous tulip-fancier; and he
went back to fHolland on purpose to fetch away choice bulbs,
and at one time he thought himself very near to producing the
much coveted black specimen, which should be priceless, and
make his;name famous. Jan, the grandfather, had thought less
of tulips, and more of prosperity, and money-bags, and papa
Janhad followed in his footsteps ; so that the number of bulbs
which had come down to our Jan, was comparatively small,
but enough still remained to afford his pretty youthful little
mother occupation and delight ; with her Alderneys and colts,
and black pigs (who were -descended in a right line from the
fierce wild boars, which used to furnish such rare sport to the
old huntg barons,' and were as sleek and handsome as
tigers, and who lived in architectural pens, and got washed
every week-- the very aristocracy of pigdom), her Guinea fowls
and musk ducks, white turkeys, and so on ; to say n thing of
song-birds and parrots. It was one of those wondro s spring
times, for our climate, when March comes to us like a dream
of Arcadia; instead of the sour, sloppy, biting, uncanny month
we know best ; when we plant peas on the first, and eat aspar-
agus from our sun-visited beds, on the fifteenth ; and crocus are
all abloom beneathour windows; and grass is springing in our
meadows, and the fen-cricket tunnels his hidden ways, in the

fallow pieces ; and the sheep cuddle their young lambs around
the straw-ricks.
"Mighty ugly little wretches they are, too," said Sonsie, to
Jan, on this very walk; "I could niver see the potry of a long-
legged rough coat like yon, who staggers about and says 'baa.'
Now the illigent spry little pigeen ! he's got nimblenessand
frisk ; he's both cunning and comely."
"'Tis true, Sonsie," replied Jan; "but the squealing pig is
father to the hog, who gets clumsy and bad-smelling all too
soon."
Sonsie hurried up her work, and put on her black dress,
modest hat, and her new gloves ; and she stepped briskly off
by the side of the -heir' of Brookedge,who was in high good
humor, and full of teazing quips, and merry personalities.
"Are you in trim for a good walk to day, Ollaa Forda ?"
said he ; "you mustn't look tired when we reach home.; what
little comeliness you have, it is proper to make the most of?.-
" Tired sir ! I niver felt the feel of it ; I could walk clear to
Limerick this day, and niver get a sob of weary=breath for zne
trouble."
"Very well; we'll pay a visit to the up-pasture first, then.
I've a sick colt there. I bought him of Peter Bradshaw ,Yhe
said he was spoiled for life; I.know better; Peter shuts tip his
horses too much, and feeds.too high."
" Mr. Bradshaw has the name of being a famous farmer, sir.
I should think he knew the best course to take with his stock."
"So do I, Sonsie. I am as wise in horseflesh, as the two
Peters rolled into one-; only I'm modest."
"Oh, here's Rainbow ! Come, then, mavourneen delish I he
might tell us a deal of what he sees in this round. world, Mr.
Vedder, and what comments he makes tipon itfallI; but he's

i' 1
R
,
1           '
,i   '     1
t
}
,          _
t  ,        '
;''
FF
:R  ;r
(  ,   ;   ,
;!   ! ,
!{  :
(
I
}  I   i
f
I      ,
f
7
'
r  4
t      I.
,    .
l  f   }
- F
'f
'i (  1
. , (.
f,."
l   ;
(i
{    ,
4 +-
,
_
,!
'   '
.
+.
,        #  j
,
,  l 1 ,
;   ! . 4
,;       ;
'
'
! 4 -  ;
E E  ,
.
,, , .,,   ,
,,  i ,
,   i
, ;   i;     ,
, .I   I  ,,i
,} '' T c1;
"  ,,, .!
i   I ( .
f   f  Lt  i

SO6

fl_:4.
1
f ,

BSI: SI, NAMES TAE COLT,

20A4


S2NSTE NAMES THE COLT.

F
i
i
}
ij
if
1(
;4
;i
fa
i
if
}j
7
1
{

des-creet, and kapes a still tongue.; there's many a man might
learn wisdom from The silent cat."
"You mean woman, Sonsie."
Janilet down the bars, and she passed through.
"There's the colt ;- see how lane he is! he draws his hind-.
foot after.him, and travels with his hoof up, as if the leg were
too long for him."
"Yes, sit; his knee is out of joint, I think."
" He-been shut up too mueh ; that's his trouble, Ollam
Folda and his stifle slips, because his muscles relax ; but I can
cure him. Don't yoa call him' a pretty fellow ?-he is nearly
puere=d"-
Veyhandsome'indeedsir, and very gentle, too isn't he?
See I 4be-ikks ihy hand I"
1dTlike yi to ride that colt; Sonsie, when he gets well;
jAst'to give himexercise, you know. I'll never- let a man
mouxthiin."
"Me, sir ? SureIniirrode a horse in my life. I'd be cer.
tfnto=tiut,= off.- Yon bring, to me- migd the old saying,
'Set a beggar on horseback;' not that Iever begged; but folks
might say it{'and me- passin' by,.and.iPd,-be-sure to think it;
oilyfor lbegarR,rdput'crossingweeper.}"
Howextremely unpleasant you can. be, Sonsie !  But I
am not going' to be annoye4byyoxirtperverseness: to-day. You
hall.et meteachlyou'how to ride.  i've been waiting for you
t&amp;cot eup here and narnie my colt,;and as soon as the cere-
thonuph onipleted I' am deterined he shall be your prop-
erty. You let Captain Slocuni give 'yo. an 'orphan pig, and
hire 'is;a sick colt to-keepnim cornad'.:
S1ttaks twso'tomake present, sir, - one to giye, and one
to take but' I vwon'tbei pleasant I'lcall the creature Ollam

Folda, and so get shut of the 'name nmeseif: I don't like it for
a Christian lassie."
" Very well, Sonsie, I will agree to hand it over to the colt,
if youx will. promise to ride. him.  ' '
"You must cure him first, sir ; there's plenty of time to talk
when he gets four' legs to stand on.'
" That's easy done, you unbeliever. I. have a peck of. bark,
steeping in the barn now in twelve quarts :f spring:watr ;-and
when that leg is washed six or eight.{times,'and'well rubbed,
you'll see he'll go ,as free , as. the :wind. I think you might
promise now, Sonsie_ There is a Spanish proverb,,'By the road
of by and by,. we come to the' town of never.' You see the colt
takes to you.. Peter is kind to his animals.- I must say that
in his praise. They are as'sweet-tempered and' trusty as he
is. Horses are full of love and also of.revenge. Tey never
forget . an abuse, and theyoftenrevenge their injuries. Harsh
language, used to a .high-bred horse in his stable, will cause
his pulse to rise many beats in a minute."
"Poor creatures! Mr. Vedder, and 'tis plenty of beats that
some of 'em gets inside and out ;',and I hear the folks sayin'
that Mr. Nickson's watch-eye is a great horse ; he axes '-big
price for him. Deacon Proddy is talking' of buyin' him for
Patience."
" He can't be suh a guy,: Sonsie,' if he is a deacon. Why,
he is a long-legged, thin-chested, flat-sided, brute; what jock-
eys call "weedy,' *-no strength, no bottom.; and' he's got -a
mean, nasty trick of biting4 besides.;he took a piece out of' his
groom's shoulder, the .pthet' day."
"I've heard say, you-could- tell the temper. of the -master
from his stock. Folks call donkeys stubborn brutes abut -Ican
tell you, sir, "tis n ot so the little ones that live:wid'.the chil-
dren in the shealings to home, are as kind as cats, and they'll

ISit
"i
i r
If

4
(;
r,
;
i;
ii
:,
t
P

s6

SON$ZE ei, NAMES, ;t ?".  " :COL T

2 [

,  :  '.
'
t,
_
l'
i
(
f
,
a
t' -  .
r, ,{
'
;'
f,    t ,
ii     t
'
1   f
,
f'
, r
,
11 r
I+'
,c ,
,E
l
,
r
i
r  i
f
(k f
.t
-
}1  5 , i
-'  1
',
.
. i; , {
('
,,  .
i
'4
+'
f
;'
f{
i)  ;
i=
1 .  t
I"  f
.i
I
I,  i
ttt     I
it
i  1
i
1
'  !
f
!    t'
} 1  '}   ,
i     r  '
i;  [     2
Il    - .
Et   F    c
'    ''  t,
,l '
i ,  :
_   ,'  }j
,,   1
!}
+2. ';.
f
I   ;
il i
t
:     i
',   J  [
,  i   i
1 i  '   ,
i i 1  '
1      t
''     i  '!


* 1V~SONSIE NAMES THE COLT
sob and ciy after their playfellows when they're out of sight.
I'm sure yours should be gentle and generous, Mr. Vedder."
"I don't keep any donkeys, Sonsie."
" Indeed, I meant your horses and cows, and all that belongs
to you."_
Sonsie burst into a merry laugh, and pointed with her finger.
"The dumb animals know their friends, sir. Is not yon an
odd sight, now? Rainbow has got his ride before any of us."
The- deft Egyptian was perched upon the pretty colt's arch-
ing neek, and comfortably purring'between his fine-pointed
ears, greatly to. the satisfaction, as it seemed, ofboth parties.
"That cat is a gay fellow  He is on friendly terms with
everybody except the widow. = Look, Sonsie, how do you like
this placed? there's about thirty acres in it. That's the house
you see down yonder, with the old-fashioned porch in front, and
the tall well sweep.  This is the only hill I've got on my prop-
erty; and -that gulley below, is -where I found my handsome
Mandrake, dying."
"'Twas a wicked deed, sir," replied Sonsie, growing sober on
the instant, "but the poor lad was main sorry for it after.
wards "
"1was not thinking of Bax, Sonsie. I bear no malice, I
assure you. - But let your blue eyes glance around you, and tell
me what you think. - I am going to send- off my tenant this
spring, and Peter advises me to farm the place myself. I have
my: own views on that score, though- Those great stacks of
poles, are for the hops we raise-here."
. F Oh, yes, sir, I know it well. Pauline and Gracie brought
me down here one time, and Il-dressed their hats with the purty
wreaths,like to a picture I saw in a book at Miss Ruthie's ; you
can't tell how lovely they looked. I think 'tis a sweet purty

SONSIE 4ME-S THE COLT.

209

place, itself, sir. I should suppose the tenant would dool to
leave it."
"He is not the 'noblest work of God, Sonsie, -an honest
man, or I should not dismiss him."
"And what will ye do with it then, Mr. Vedder?"
"I shall make it missionary ground, Sonsie.
The Ulster maiden looked -at him, and could not account
for the triumph which sat on his flushed face, and they bade -the
colt "good-by,'' and walked on together. Mrs. Vedder received
them ip a great room, oak-pannelled, and the walls painted in
landscapes of boar-hunts and African scenes, palm-trees and
elephants, and whole4ungles full of lions and tigers. The pain-
ter came over from Holland, on purpose to immortalize himself,
on these walls, though unfortunately, his name is lost to us. The
carved mantel arrived also in the ship, as well as tie porcelain
tiles, which were four deep around the great fireplace ; also the
odd jugs, and China monsters on the high shelf, almost out of
reach ; also the cuckoo-clock on the wall, and the oaken beau-
fets in the corners, heaped and piled with old painted china and
solid silver.
Sonsie-took in the whole in one sweeping glance, even while
she-was answering the kind talk of the small lady, who-stood
like a beneficent fairy in the centre of the room, and stretched
out her jewelled hand, and gave her visitor cordial greeting.
So petite was she, that - she was forced to look up at the -well.-
grown lassie ; and she looked in pleased surprise. ; - Evidently,
she had not expected so much beauty. Her fancy had fur-
nished her with a picture of a coarsish, rather red-fingered
young woman, with thick waist, and- heavy shoulders, -who had
somehow got a place in her boy's heart ;- and she smiled most
glad approval into the well-opened, honest eyes, that met hers
so frankly, and she placed her in a chair close to her own,
18*

ii
j3

i
11 ,  -
'
1
.r
r -
f'
r ! a
?t ,


/SaNtSIe  NAM1S 2YTR CL7.

SONSR MArSf-'TNA'A CL 7'.

keeping the"finewarm elean-feeling hand clasped in her little
soft one.
" Mamrna' -mamma-! why don't the men propose ?" in-
quired a shrill voice behind Sonsie, which made her start. The
tone of the questiontsignified such utter disgust with the dilato-
riness of the "m as uline-persuasion," that she could hardly
helptning her head to get' a' view of the young woman who
preferred sdoadd'a query, and who had so evidentlya cold in
her nose.
"Polly, Put the kettle on, and. we'll all have tea," remarked
the young person. .
As no move was 'made to comply with the command, the
shrill female called sharply, "Jan, Ester, Jasper, Polly Ann,
Maria-!"I and' proceeded, apropos to nothing, to relate ,the
touching history of Jack and Gill,'who went up the hill to draw
a pailof water; and she went off into convulsions of heartless
laughter over' their unlucky tumble, mixed with such vociferous
crowing, permowing, and barking, 'that 'Sonsie could not re-
frai fromd jping up, dgaing about her-in utter astonish-
ment.
"My parrot, my dear,"' explained Mrs. Vedder, smiling.
"' Tlks6well, doesn't she ? ahd shes quie . beauty. Come
-here, P 11  " '   ''.-
.'instantlythere was a fluttefi  ins,and a heavy thud on.
to the foorbofa the next roor.a d a a l t ,and geen parrot
came waddling ii'to he tistress, hbs dess; sheclimbed
with beakandclaws, till she reached her shoulder where she sat
in state, and said, "SingPolly; sing  and opened her throat,
ands gave- outa'trill; ad a ,cadenza as 'finiished as any opera
girl's and'cOinglimented' herselfipoxi aer noe ntie  saying,
blandlandecnfidtiallf 'What daring little:lly t" Oh, ny,
what a Polly !" GoodgracionsWhat 1ol  " Jar laughed

at Sonsie's bright-eyeA astonishmefit, and began towhistle' a
polka. Polly changed her eyes into balls of ;coppery-orange
light, and said, severely, "Cut your ears -off, Jah Vedder.
Good-by, sh I sh I ' andspread her Wing sand tail, showing her
beautiful scarlet back; and the lovely cobalt- blue of her long
pens, "and weaved swiftly either tid thither as if about' to
pounce upon the young getntlenian directly_
"Well, ind ade and =sure, Iniver in me life ;seen the likes of
that bird 1" said 'Sonsie.
Jan glanced uneasily at his' mother, fearful of the effect of
the brogue, and Polly. cut in with a remark upon the weather.
"Pretty cold, Jan!  o and take a snoke."
Jan need not have 'troubled hinself,or his motherswas more
than pleased with her guest,=--the free grace of her motions, the
proud pose of her.iisteniig head  aid her milkWhite skit, ur
spotted by a-ingle feckle; she saW great possibilities in her,
and was fully: reconciled to bed asia daughter She.took hey
over the great house,' ande exhibited the durious =old- furniture,
the family ipictur s pointing otte:yan s "baby self'all°.'urls and
dimples, whom Sonsie.was beguiled into pronouncing,,"purty
dear," much6to the young f lkWo  4#light"'befbre the identity
was explainedaid even  h e  she fled "to ddi'oe any re-
semblance. She took her to thefaiin-yard, and idswedoff her
pets; and t the loose bo;4where hericots'were °atduingteW
approach with brightintelent eya. "
"Ali, those}are-dhe coler 1 " aedained Sonsic Wit enthusi
asm; "they're the hue of the Kerry cows' crame, ilie hadsone
darlings..' : "."                    7'
4.They ;re beauties,  nde replied Mir'Vedder; "and of
the exact shade w ehiin al ays beex defended fi these of
kings andqueen   '
"They be just fit for yer sweet bonnie self, I think, ma'am ;

210

211

,  ? '
f     f
i i
i
i
(   ,
"
i
r {
t
!  , f
, ,
.
,  _
,
,  ,
'
,f i r.
i Ill
+i
.  i
'
I'
t    t
{t     ,
;  i
It       _
t
i
,,
'
s[F" !_
l,
r  ,
; .
j,
(!1t
i; i
Si
i!
j     t
:r    I
,
E
P
{    2
l
t,
1    f
'1
'('   i
;'   i
'
i
{,
'    -
,    
'?    i
;  i   f
,ii   I
i
i
.1,   .E
j i.
,   v"  ,
i    tI
'I   t
'il
t     I
i     {
!' i
i
lI
i (l,
'       t
~ i
,,  .',
:; ;
,;
~i   "i ',,
ij   ; G
, i      ; ,
j';, _,
'      4     t


212

$ONSZE NAM.S 1,I=E COLT.

and 'tis thruefor ye, Mr. Jan, they're a deal pottier than Ollam.
Folda up yon," said Sonsie, laughing. The youngster explained
to his mother's inquiring look, that they had come down. from
the up-pasture, and that the Ulster maiden had named his new
colt, and promised to ride him when he was cured.
"Not precisely just, I think, Mr. Vedder," corrected she.
" Mr. Jan asks me to do a many. things which I can't see my
way clear to, ma'am. :He's a very troublesome young gentle.
man to a poor girl sometimes, through being over kind; but
there's no harm in him."
Jan was thoroughly vexed with this careless set-down; and
walked away without a word; and after they were left alone,
Mrs. Vedder set herself to find out the color of Sonsie's
thoughts.  Woman's wit against woman's wit. The Celt with
her early gotten, sharp -intuition of motives and character
would have been an overmatch for the little lady, if she had
had any thing to conceal, or pny plot to mature ; but she had
come on purpose to talk, and set her hostess at ease; alid she
spoke very freely, and very nModestly, about herself, her family,
and her future plans.
U've a swate hope 'to go back to Ireland, and be a teacher!
I seem to remember quite well the green valley and the spring-
ing porn, and the little shealing; and the poor barefoot boys to
homeend I should think eself happy to carry ideation on
me tongue, and work in me hand,3to them. I'm dreamin'
abott it oft and oft, and I believe I shall be let somehow to
have'me wish."
" Oh, you will be falling in love, and getting married before
long, my child; and then= where'll be all your fine schemes?"
"I-don't think that'likelynia'am. What I've seen of mar-
ried folks -so far, don't make me crave to be it meselt  I can't

SONSIE NAMES THE COL 7.

213

say what I might do if a nice tidy young Irish boy should come
along and ask me.?
Jan; who could. not-stay long away, came back just in time
for this confUssion of faith, and he looked soy abjebtly misera-
ble, that his mother pitied him, though all such- talk wenC for
nothing in her estimation where her Jan was concerned; and
she told him Ito take;-Sonsie tothe library, and show her the
books. He took down the History of Ireland, in ten volumes,
but all his pleasure in it was spoiled by her last speech. Sonsie
readily accepted the invitation to stop to. supper, and acquitted
herself beautifully. She was so observing, and so quick-witted,
that it was very difficult to take her at disadvantage. Though
there were many pieces ofold-fashioned silver on the table,
of which she only guessed the use, and some odd Dutch viands,
and queer cakes and pickles, she looked as much :at home as
though she had taken the like for dinner and supper fregently,
and was modest and attentive, and thoroughly charmed with her
fairy hostess, and readily promised to'repeat her visit, leading
the precise period of time of ther- next cotinng indefinite.. rs.
Vedder ordered out her "creams," and took the young people
to the Hotseshoe; and all the way :back to Brookedge, after
taking leave of Sonsie, she talked about hergt happy Jan, who
declared that he'd certainly got the best mother that ever a boy
'had. She warmly approved his choice, and promised hin hip,
and was so :eager and delighted-that the young fellow could
not resist taking her in his arms when the carriage stopped; And
he carried her all about the roons, before he finally deposited
her on the sofa;' full of plans to get rid of the brogue,' and get
on the 'necessary'polish, though, "She's a natal, gaceful
lady in feeling and extremely refied alsos in her heart and
intentionsxfyboy. Those cantbe improved ; alweueedis a
wee bit of outside furbushing."

(1t     i
I      j
' itt
,I
t     -
i
i
;I f
I
,  t

i i
tie
1111

IIi    1
44f 14
t4 '


"f

214

SONSIE NAMES THiE CG17

"Rosenbigom is. the. school for ali that sortof:hing; mother,"
said Jan, decidedly.
"VerywllRoseloom it shall be, bthen : and she'shall go.
wellkdressed .,and ona leveL }f oting.with the ot i girls; that
shal be  y car Jai"
Leas-about to treet her to another tripna his arms, but
she dispatched him ifor penil and. paper, with which to note
dewn :the needful outfit, and very merry-they got among the
feminine garments.
"But mfolther -whatif, after all, she won't consent, but berg.
sists in being Ollam Folda the stubborn ?"a'. saidjan, with a very
losg face.
"I0shall managee that;, my boy. It will be a'battle I've
already learned enough to be sure she will not" surrender
her convictiois easily; 'bt think .ycan. conquer'her.  Oh,
yes, we~ willhave her for  rs, my darling arid be' ever so
happy."
When Jan blewtohi'.candle that night, and: gave himself
up to last quiet think about:Sonsid:her sayingsxand doings, he
got hokd of ; billiant idea: 0"drose veryearly in the morning
tospat.in .exnt in, e roeaalong"letter,and :Ii ailed it
secretly,;ad Yaite4_in:betiitmatience for:e.pl: : '
9r edder had agoodthitik alsoand4tesult of .,hers
wasa;detierne natio'to paja:visit to:the ir eeboend in.
viteSo isie to gowith her:.nd fAubon the:ite of the new
ehlpela4 try togainbhernconfidence                 ~
Itawa a arilingly elea-eyed {osygirlwhoopenedthe door
upoher arrjvnI, fresheriandprettier th nevier; the lady tho ght.
She had b    'addbout her;purple.blacktressess the green:satin .
sneodashI 4 te1 d t1' ear, and her trim figure a buttoned"
close into Biters:plaid :ingham-4 a4ored ,by hite  pon,
d         '  " e'4"

SONSIE NAMES THE COLT..

215

elaborate in fluting (a specialty of Sonsie's), a pair of gay slip..
pers on her feet, embroidered with her own.hands, in the sham-
rock and thistle, and her face all dressed5in z elcing smiles ;
for she had conceived a violent liking:forthe fairy matro, and
she touched her hand and heardher:voice wtiut tse'pleasure,
ushered her .in with plian motions, anderect, medt-boldess,
and set the great arm chair, as if it had  een athr ne,and
waited to hearwhat she would say, with herface eve and her
eyes so fixed. upon her visitor, that the ladykin felt intuitively
the pleasure her presence was conferring  .'
When the. excursion was proposed, Sonsieeeped out t
the carriage, and the "jblue-coat " on the box, and the " creams,"
and said merrily, setting her hands on .her hips, and speaking.
over her shoulder,-
"And is it me, Sonsie Eagan! that-Mrs. Vedder would be
afther wanting to sit beside her in yon carriage fora pleasure-
drive, sure?"
Mrs. Vedder recognized the attitude her son -had described,
and she could nothelp admiring the girl's chery lips and.white
teeth, and her full, compact-gure, even while dhe .thought how
intensely Irish she was, and she laughed enjoyingly asshe re-
plied,-
"Certainly, my dear; and come quickly: - you seemy horses
are impatient, and so am I. .I've planned a chatwith yoplose
by my side. Women hav  hims you knowe andIhav    liking
for you, Sonsie. It won't hatt yoeayayand.ill do:,nu good
you are not. as myJasays, a daughter of    m Folda the
stubborn.' I.wouldo t lehimone,' beeanc e hed only bedn
the way, 'youknow ;,.. putting joeksinto -ureseu ers-
tion. It is exceedingly important that .e ecieimtnediately
where we will place our chapel'
"Mrs. Veddet," said Sonsie, laughing inside, at the way she

II
ki  ; '  It


2T8

SONSIE NAMES -THE COLT.

was following the lead of the gentlefolks, and doing it with a
purpose, -"Mrs. Vedder, I'll be glad and pleased to go, if you
will let me introjuice you to me mother."
"I've just come from her, Sonsie," replied the matron, easily.
"I carried her a basket .of primroses and iris to plant out in
her patch; and a nice clump of yellow and purple crocus all
abloom. My Jan took them up so deftly for me in their mould,
that they won't ever suspect that we've meddled with them, and
you will be surprised at their beauty. Our spring is so early
this year, a month ahead of last; this is only the first of March,
and-my bulbs are all up. I had a rare frolic with the baby'
called -Briefne. I love babies, Sonsie ; I mean to make a gay*
grandmother. What ever possessed you to give such a queer
name to that youngling, dear?"
It  is rather queer, - ,suppose, to you Yankees, but not to
me, who've been used to hear it always. It is the country of the
old O'Roukes to home. Me mother was an O'Rouke, ma'am,
of:lster. We 'call baby =Brenny,' for short; she's a purty little
bit; I think.. They say she grows very like me those titles.
I'll be afther sending Brenny to school one day -when I've
earned ,the nioney."
"Yes, yes, Sonsie, a capital plan; we'll discuss it as we ride.
You're going to let me talk verx plainly to you, I know; you
like e, don't: you ?"
"ndade, ma'am, ye may well say that wid yer pretty mouth;
ye're lovely to look at: such eyes ! as blue as the flax.flower, and
fine skin as white as a waxen lily, and soft hair like sunshine ;
you're a.winsome lady.- It makes me heart dance to see you."
f'Thank you, my dear," .replied the small matron, who took
very easily Sonsie's rather particular enumeration of her
charms. "I was reckoned quite a beauty when I was a girl like
you. They say my Jan is his, mother's boy in face ; though he

SONSIE NAMES THE COLT.

2i

overgrew me before he was fifteen, and I'have been looking
up to him ever since."
"Mr. Jan 'I1 bear looking up to, Mrs.'Vedder. Indeed I've
a vast respect for him meself."
" He'll be getting a 'wife pose, after a while, my dear."
Mrs. Vedder watched the
"Ohyes, in toutie11 I
lady, some of those days
idication and goodness." "'4   '
" I hope he will give me a good; I n
whom Nature has made a lady. I don't care
grandfathers, after they're dead.
"'Great Cesar, dead and turned to clay,
Now stops some hole to keep the wind away.'
A fresh, rosy, good-tempered, bright girl, who will love niy Jar
and me, is what I desire and expect to have."
She closed with a peculiar smile, which called up the crimson
carnation into Sonsie's cheeks."
" Will you excuse me 'for minute, ma'an,'while I fetch me
hat. I'll not be kapeing ye'longer. Yer colts is prancing and:
skelping wid impatience."
It was one of those glad days, when all budding 'things are
full of life and promise, and the air so rich' with oxygor&amp;
one, or some other life-giving principle, that, without being 'ate
to assign any reason for your conviction, you are sure and cer:
tain that the dearest aspirations of your soul are about to be
realized, your fondest hopes just on the verge of certainty, and'
you pick ,up life's burdens like gay fardels, and dance, in{ spirit'
to the ecstacv 'of your inner being." You breathe no common
air laderi. with sighs, freighted with groans, damp with tearsAdbt
an elixir which sends the blood sparkling through your veins.

1.

i
' I
t
_! ,
.
t G
i:
r l44rtl
L '
fl'
i+
" i
t
t
t,
f'
I
.

F  Z
't 4K r
111 ' ;
ON I
S , ' I 1 


218         SONSIE NAMES THE COLT.2

They drove to Captain Slocum's meadow, and got out of the
carriage, and walked and talked all over it, and selected the
most charming site for the new chapel, just where it could sit
and overlook the last mad leap of Roaring River-,#d watch
the orchards and the homes --uai-ft14 he while the gentle
slopes and woode41               ted
he chehkaraand
am~therly kindness and
-,,be n      kieA nded within her : she felt as if
give tp her life to her new friend. But the
all was: with hot tears raining down her cheeks, and
her new friend's hand to her lips, she replied, ----
"But the debt, ma'am !  Sure I couldn't see my way clear
at all. I'll fare on wid Miss Ruthie, till I can keep a little,
school ; and then I'll go half the year, and pay my own way.
I am young and strong ; don't think me ungrateful.  Don't I
wish ye could see me naked heart, how it thanks you- such
goodness to a shp of a wild Insh girl! but 'tis possible, just
onpossible -'tis indeed."=
66
Well, Sonsie, we'll put it differently then, and nicer. Come
and be my good daughter, and let me have the right of adop-
tion, to love and care for you.  I am rich. I could enjoy
your presence in my house, your fresh face at my table, your
company in my drives, your daughter-love everywhere."
"And is it a sister to Mr. Jan that ye'd be makin' of me,
ma'am?" asked Sonsie. Her eyes twinkled through her tears
with a modest, bold look, half arch, half saucy, and wholly pro.
poking; and Mrs. Vedder was covered with confusion by the
directness of the question.-
" My Jan is a fine fellow, Sonsie Eagan," said she, eva-
sively. "You might hunt the world over, and not find a bet.
ter brother. -

"He's a broth of a gentleman, intirely, ma'am, indeed; and,
by the same token, yer the very sweetest lady-mother that I
iver looked upon. If the two of us had opened our eyes in the
same nest, I'd love your boy dear, and be main proud of him
but you see 'twas far otherwise. Mr. Jan was cradled on fine
linen, and Sonsie Eagan crawled over the mud floor of an Irish
shealing. The O' Roukes was good blood in the olden times ;
had lands: me papa was an Ulster weaver, and a very hand-
some man, I remember him too. But whisper, Mrs. Vedder :
they've a little wanderer up there at Deacon Proddy's from the
home for the friendless, and I hear 'em callin' her a 'gutter-
snipe'  I could niver bear that indeed ; there's the soil and
mud of the streets on me garments yet, and I can scarce shut
me eyes but I see little Sonsie Eagan, a wee bit of a dirty lassie,
wid a big broom in her fist, wandering up and down ; lookin'
into folk's faces for a gleam of God's charity. I must' get up
out of that!1 so far up, that I can forget how it felt, and me
pride won't all the while be hurted wid every chance word. I
must work me way up; tarry by meself. Nobody- shall iver
say that -Mrs. Vedder picked up a 'gutter-snipe' out of a low
place, and is trying to make a lady of her. I couldn't stand it,
and me walkin' by your side, and ridin' in yer carriage, to see
folks point wid :the finger, nor look wid the eye. I'd know
what their thoughts were, even if they ne'er gave- them breath.
I'll-.plase God - make a true, pure woman out-of the stuff
he's put into me; and what respect I get from folks, I'll earn,
and hold up me head. Im coming on rarely. Miss Ruthie is
kind, and me lessons is thriving; and I'll be able to teach me
little school in a year's time, she says."
"But Sonsie - my dear girl -"
"Yes, ma'am, I know what ye'd be after saying . I'll pray;on
me knees for ye ivery night, and I'll niver forget yer kind-words;

{          f       I,
i        t
(        i                   o       ,
'i
i                1          S,.
'                1       ;      'I  i        LL1.
r                         f      it   ;        tl
I        I      r  tl'   I i
-                         '       I     X11 P
. , .                     i       X11

219

SONSIE NAMES THE COLT.


220        SONStE NAMES THE COLT.

they'll help me more nor you can know: but you see, I wasn't
to blaine at all 'I niver asked to be born ; I just found a big
broom ready to me mite of a fist, and I swept wid it !- and I
swet w    {ll/ Mrs. Vedder. I river did. a mean thing through it
all but Zwas there --1 can't seem to forget it till I've strug.
gled and' lifted' meself."
The smallmatron went home by the devious road which fol-
lowed the'course ofa pretty brook, which was chatting along in
tireless play,' to join the great Roaring River, -
"A bracelet spun from mountain mists, a silvery sash unwound,"
and thought what, she should say to her Jan, who would
be eager: to hear her ;report. She had an impression strong
upon her, that this girl, in her pride, was putting herself
through a purgatory,-to cleanse away 'some fancied stains,
left' upon her by her, street-life; and .her thoughts were
all the-'time busy around her, in the days which .followed..
The  girl had taken a' strong hold of her sympathies, and her
imagination  Dr. Jenkins said she was full of magwetism; and
she certainly aroused the liveliest interest in the mind of this
little,:earnest'busylady. There was a vivid charm in her proud,
self-reliant attitude, and facilefree gestures; her clear, honest
eyes were eloquent to speak her heart's bidding, and they
changed in tome wonderful way, from purest blue, to deepest
violet, velvet-soft, and again grew. tender' and humid when her
voice deepened, and her soul' kindled with fervid feeling.
Every phase she showed,' was rich and full; all signs of an af-
fluent nature, 'a warm, loving, inner life, and Jan's iotherwas all
the while thinking how happy she could be with a such daughter,
and planning some new mode- of 'attack, 'and she was so ab-
sorbed,: that her: son hugged her, arid said, Ollam 'Folda had
bewitched:his little mamma; and he talked and' hoped, and'

WOMEN MAY LOVE, AND NEVER MARRY_'.           221
kept on making'opportunities to be in the lassie's society;
and got no jot nearer to his wishes, nor saw. the shadow of a
change in her steadfast purpose; and he waited impatiently for
a letter from Rosenibloom.
CHAPTER XVIII.
WOMEN MAY LOVE, AND NEVER MARRY.
HRISTABEL .GOLDSMITH was sitting in the li-
brary; where she had been so happy and so very
wretched, where Otho Groenyeldt 'had been so hea.
venly kind; and were he had turned' his back upon her, and
refusedher offered hand; where she had:left the sweet prom-
ise of her life,. one sad evening,:when' she had shrunk away from
all eyes, in her unsightly robes, and taken up her lot, commun-
ing with her ownheart= iithe. stillness of her apartment.. This
library had been to her a ;penance-chamber. She: had~ forced
herself to tcore gftenand sit in the same corner, and ' had long
ago settled with her soul in how much she hadi erred, and in
what measure she had been sinned'against;. .and she ,never fal-
tered in-;her resolution, nor wavered in -her 'determination to
uproot the one unwomanly blemish-weed in. her character.
The wood fire burned brightly; .and Bertha Groenveldt- knelt
before her friend with hei arms around her waist, and her eyes
were fixed., upon the browii, ones which looked beyond her, into
the glowing coals. Chris was talking and the'other maid was
listening,.
"And did they not marry ?" asked she, when the rich voice
was hushed, and the speaker sankback into absorbed.silence.
"1%o, Bertha, . could not find 'a wedding for them in call iy
19*

N

' r I
(f 1  1
I  ;l r  r'


222   WOMEN MA   Y LOVE, AND NEVER MARRY.
dreams, try I never so much. I 'put my will into it too; but
somehow, after a certain point, the current of their lives would
run strange ; and so I had to be content."
"Brt she loved him truly, and, very dearly, did she not ?"
ed Bertha, hiding her face.  Chris paled a little, and
{ened her clasp of the hand which had sought hers.
You and I know, good sister Bertha, that women may love,
and never marry."
"It is not a nice world at all, Chris. It gets drearier every
day, I think."
'"Not so, my sister. It is a beautiful world - full of good
gifts, full of work ; we can be very happy. I believe t$y best
women live in it alone; at any rate imean to have a   h ife;
-and have, it to{myself; a life of freedom and art and charity;
as.soon.as I .am of age, I shall go abroad; it was my papa's
plan for me, and I will follow it out - as far as I am able."
"But" - persisted Bertha -half asham ed to speak her
thought -."but if only it could have been different."
S"There's no use in any such idle whining -it wasn't differ]
ent; and now the part for us to ,take,:is to get the most and
:best- out. of what:is."
Chris pushed her friend away from her, and rose purpose-
fully. ,."Come," said ,she, "let's to work : that is happiness
enough' for this evening."-
"[No !'"answered Bertha;, "I will not work any more to day.
'My eyes are tired, and my heart is heavy; I can't go on all
the while, and never stop, as you do, -you who never.want
rest; I have to creep off and be quiet, and. think, and then I
can get stupid, and go to sleep. That is good and restful.
Come, Chris, you shall sing to me.".
She took up a guitar which lay on the sofa, and running her
(Mgers over its chords,'"she changed her intention of giving it

WOMEN MA Y LOVE, AND NEVER 'MARRY. 223
to her friend, and began chanting a sort of recitative in plain-
tive measure.
"'I am sick, ,end sad, and weary,
And I long to go to sleep
Where the hectic wind-flowers blossom,
Where the trailing mosses creep.
Cross-crowned spruces in a cluster
Point to heaven beyond the sky,
But the grave is dark and lonely,-
All things lovely fade and die.
Meadow-lilies in the sunshine,
Stately stand with quiet grace;
Iris, daily life renewing,
Shadows in the brook, her face
But stillaround, from morn till even,
Mourns the same sad requiem cry,
Still the grave is dark and lonely,-
Allthings lovely, ade and die."'
"Nay, Bertha, do not bring out that dreary ditty          of mine
to confound me; let us find something more cheersome, said
Chris, gently taking the instrument.      "I wish you would for-
get that foolish rhyme     'tis an unhealthy bit' of nonsense, and
I'm  sorry it is so often on your lips.      Come, I'll give you a
heroic ballad in merry measure."
While she tunes the old Spanish guitar, the very same upon
which Otho gave her lessons, let us look at her a little.      She is
dressed in soft rosy gray, of clinging stuff, and rather peculiar
cut; and at her throat and wrists, are little fluted mullruffles;
and her hair hangs in heavy curls below her slender waist, kept
in place by a narrow gray ribbon; and a clump of snow-bels at
her throat, and the like, picturesquely dropped among her tress-
es.  Chrs    was not dressed without         hyr flower, but there
were no pansies now ; those, for thoughts, were far too sad;
and she took such as the dear old Professor brought her daily.
Sometimes they were musk roses, and sometimes Provence'buds,

i
'
I


224   WOMEN MAY, LOVE, AND NEVER MARRY.
and again still jessamines; or daphne odora, which she got but
rarely, because the plant refuses to bloom a second time where
a wound is made by plucking off its beauties, and the Pro.
fessor only cut it for his pupil upon great occasions, when she
had done marvels in painting, or mastered a whole sonata up-
on the violin, or charmed him with her Portuguese poetry, and
she had rare pleasure in the gift thus bestowed, with many
caressing words and quaint praises.
" He hath had losses." Just so. Our Chris has had losses,
and she is quite'a different person from the shy child who sat
upon the old wall thatieth 'of May, and talked with Dr. Gro-
enveldt, of the life "he could enjoy. The shyness is all gone,
the quiet remains; but it is the quiet of a self-poised woman,
who has suffered and conquered. . She looks in perfect health,
but there is an habitual droop to her lip, which something
nws its beauty, and a look of suffering about her wistful eyes.
Her friends are satisfied with her cheerfulness, and she has
smiles for them, and ready words, and plenty of kind helpful
acts. Her strongly marked individuality s unchanged. She
drops off into reveries, and has to be roused; and says qier
things, and makes odd quotations from unknown sources, but
she is womanly, discreet, earnest, and loving.
Roger carme in with a couple of letters, which he handed to
Chris, who laid aside her guitar to read them,
" 'From Chaindos," she exclaimed, tearing open the top one,
and reading hurriedly the fun, pranks, and bits-of travel with
whieh that lighthearted youngster's epistles were always crammed
as a liberal housewife stuffs her pudding with plums. Anen.
joying laugh, and a kiss upon the "Chandy" -at the bottom,
ended her perusal, and she handed it over to Bertha, who had
been watching her with hungry eyes, and who retired to a cor-
ner, to .devour it in quiet. Chris read through the second

WOMEN MAY LOVE . AND NEVER MARRY.
missive, with bent brows, and a contracted face,. and-rose with
quick motion, and began walking up and .down, holding the
paper in her fingers, and with eyes dwelling on the carpet..
" Noble. fellow ! she said, aloud. "My dear Sonsie shallbe
reasonable ! nothing shall, hinder the execution of -such a glo..
rious scheme. I must write instantly."
Bertha looked up in some surprise :at her excited face.
"What is it, dear, which, brings .so much of your soul into
your eyes?" asked she.
"A letter frpm Jan Vedder; a noble manly letter, full of
goodness. Why, when he leapt that gate up at Craienfel,
I would not have believed he could ever -come out like
this and mother said he was improper too"w
Bertha gazed in a puzzle at her friend, trying toilecipher
the signs about, her mobile'.lips, and ,to' read the emotion
which was, evidently a powerful one. of its. kind.; but' Chriss
next word chased away her thought.   .     '
" He wishes to place Sonsie Eagan, our little Irish, protg6,
here, among us; and begs me. to use my influence. withlti-, to
moderate her pride, and show her her plain duty. His epistle
is full of wit and sharp points, 'and he states his case with con-
cise strength."
" How very strange.! does it not strike you that the child's
life here would be a daily crucifixion? Poverty and: pride,
and her antecedents, and nIrish blood'! .Why, Chris, they would
kill her before she'd finishedd her first term; these schoolgirls
are nerciess " . .'.
" I do not think se, Bertha, at all.. Sonsie despises and walks
over all obstacles ; and if she consents to come, theridicule of
foolish girls, or their neglect, will be but the small dust of the
balance to her. Besi4ks, there ar&amp;e enough of us to take care
of her ;and I can assure. you she is such a scholar as Profes-'

1
!               i       ,f    k
r'
I               t     +    '4
i    YI    ;          .1
1 . f_
,    ,a
I
,                     i
,                      f            MF.
+ i                             '      ;            yJt
"y
,;      1         y             ,
-        t                  k'f
,
I                     «
I         i      f
j
i
t         ,
r
i         7      i  ¢y ,a
i         11
,         i         H,
} LLL
I i        1  S
'         I
i
r      ,
1
f                f      ,
,     ,
t                             i
,.                                    '
i         i
,                ,
'         el      ,
i
t         t      ti    (,
'           I         t            r
j    ( i
I                c
j
,
i      i                +'
-                                               i
i
i
,          '
j
S      $
1     i                     I  7
,
I' ;      1i
t                     ,
i  I      I,
t
S,,
-         i           ! '    r
i
I        1            i  i       !  I
,          S       j  11j
'1     1'{
r
'                7
'                       i
''      1       ;
'                1
I     ,           f       7

i        {    ,       .
,'
4
i                     i
I
y '  .
!E_
',     ,
'!
'            i
{            i  "  ,  I '
,t.
i      '     'f'  i '  'J,
f  '  ,'   ,
j' il, '   I   ,i      i
ri ,i ,   ';         i
i      ' l l


,'  'I'              ,{7(
'    !  i   +i    f  3   }
{E    "4     t
I    li     4       Q
-FI t
t
4
'           i     .      t
,     i        E    '
i
i     t
C
1            I
f    '

WOMEN MA Y LOVE, AND NEVER MARRY.
sor Noble will rejoice to get hold of; such enthusiasm, such
ardor, such fire ! and, to support them, such vigorous health !"
"Let us go and find Sabrina, and get her opinion."
Bertha put Chandy's letter into her pocket for a closer per-
usal in the privacy of her apartment.
"Nay, good sister, let Sabrina find us here. This is the
fittest. place for a good talk that I know of, especially just at
the gloaming, when the coals get red, and the shadows flicker
and dance, and our crickets are beginning their concert."  She
rang the bell. "Roger, please ask Miss Bradshaw to join us
in the library,". said she.
Prtty soon Sabrina, "the siver lake goddess," came.sailing
in, her purple robe trailing  after her, her amber locks
adorned with forget-me-nots, and diffusing about her the soft
odor of the English violets she always carried. She advanced
with a free step, and laid a soft touch upon her friend's arm,
who, While waiting her coming, had shut herself among her
thoughts.
" Ah 1" Chris exclaimed, starting slightly, and smiling,-
Sabrina-fair, devout, and pure,
Sober, steadfast, and demure,
We' want your opinion." She placed Jan's letter in her hand
and waited for comments.
"A strange:scheme, truly!" was the first, as she folded the
missive-and returnedit. . Fear it willnot do ; and, apregos--
I have a letter from Zoe, which I have neglected in my inter-
est in Ariosto's capers, which he planted in his garden, and
watched impatiently, till they.turned out to be. elder-trees.
One who-intends to be greatly attentive to friends, and duties,
must steer clear of that- witching poet ; but I beg Zoe's pardon,
and will get through her pretty little ep tle' without delay."

WOMEN MA Y LOVE, AND NE VER MARR Y 227
Sabrina laughed, as she read - one of her musical songs of
merry enjoyment, rippling, tuneful, 'sweet.
"Our friends are leagued against the poor girl," said she,
"I see no help for her. She -has no choice but to surrender,
and be made a scholar and a lady of;.for I feel quite sure, Jan
wishes to marry Sonsie."
Sabrina was conscious of no pride of caste, but she could
hardly credit the' story Zoe told her under the rose -that is,
secretly among the three friends. Sonsie Eagan was to her but
the Irish maiden rescued from starvation, a servant born in
the serving class, and nothing more ; and it seemed to her un-
natural that Jan should desire to lift her out of it by making
her his wife. Jan ! whom she had learned to consider. noble-
hearted fellow, endowed with charming social qualities, a dno
little culture, beneath his free-and-easy exterior. She promised
to help, and look after the young aspirant, in the trials .they
all foresaw for her it Rosenbloom; but she could find n sym-
pathy with the consummation ; and as for thinking of Sonsie
Eagan as her equal ! that seemed to her simply impossible.
"Our ardent little Zoe is zealous about it; full of praises
of Sonsie ; and the dear girl is coming out strong as a plotter
too, perfectly Michievelian, in fact.: only listen to her deep
scheme. This Irish. marvel is to accompany her as maid, com-
panion, friend, in her New York trip, and: they'll be here next
week."
"Zoe is indeed wise!" remarked Chris, smiling. "Do you
remember that saying of Krumacher's ?  I offer you a golden
apple in a silver rind : you receive the rind, and you find the
apple ? I think I'll make Qne of your party, Sabrina: Ive iny
prize money for expenses, and I'll hunt a pblisher fQr ny
book."
" What if you cannot," said Sabrina; " these publishers are  I

e               ,
1        '        '
r
,    i         t        t
!   ,    i
_
'"  r°


228    WOMEN MAY LOVE, AND NEVER MARRY
erie creatures, they, say; they frown down any poor author,
who makes a humble bow, with a roll of manuscript in
hand."
"I shall not make a humble bow,'V said Chris quietly.,
John Peebles, a pale, large-eyed student, came in at this
juncture accompanied, by his chum Dexter, who, Chris, said
always reminded her of Lamb's plea for roast pig. "Consider !
he is a weakling, a flower!'" They were seeking contributors
for the "Chip-Basket," and were never turned empty away by
Chris, who seemed to make time for everything, and hearing
of the proposed trip, he said looking at her and speaking gen-
erally, "I should like to go in your company; and I'll shoul-
dermy green umbrella, and pilot Miss Chris safely out of the
dens-of the lions."
"'That will be conducive," said Sabrina. "Ah, dear Chandy;
how hispet expressions cling to one; and flertha shall go too;
our quartette must not be dissevered."
Filer pattered in, with her hands full of themes, to tell them
that they were all invited to the great parlor at eight, to make
welcome some new pupils, and 'was pattering away again, rub-
bing her red nose, when Chris seized on her, captured the
papers, and made her listen to her plan.
"~o, my dear, by all means," said she ; "it will do you good;
and as for the book, it is a, good book. It has cost me as
many tears as it, has given me nice laughs. Heigho, I am
tired to death ! Here's a theme for a girl fifteen years old, on
'Winter.' ' Winter is the coldest season in the year.  It
snow(in winter, and people have to stay in the house a good
deal, and keep the doors shut, only when they go a-skating.'
TljereJwhat do you think of that for an original essay. Ah !
I" sifnever get another class which will make me as happy as

WOMEN MAY LOVE, AND NEVER MARRY.              229
" You will come away from school in a couple of years or so,"
said Chris. "I'll not leave you behind me ; no indeed.! Filey is
mine; I bought her with love. I shall be of age by and by,
and I am going to carry you off, and see beautiful things. We'll
travel up and down, a couple of unprotected females."
"That would be nice," said the little, teacher, wiping her red
eyes; 'quite too nice for me, but it warms me up-to know. that
somebody wishes for me ; it is - such a long time since anybody
has said ' dear' to me. Good-by - there's the supper bell !
That Jane Muchley and Miss Teazle '11 be picking each others
eyes out if I'm not there to keep them in order ; you never saw
such a pair of quarrelsome little wasps. -Come ! what do you
want?" she added, as a head appeared at the door.  'There ! I
told you so. Jane has been at it again ! I hope Madame will be
satisfied with her experiment. I assured her those girls would
never do here. You may report a cipher, Miss Teazle."
Filer walked :ff gimlet-eyed and rasping, and Chris felt heart..
ily sorry for her 'vertasked nerves.
Peebles singled out 'his favorite as soon as -her silver-gray
robe floated into the drawing-room, and his pale face kindled
a little at sight of the' slender wearer,. and he stopped to gather
a Provence bud, which dropped from her breast-knot, as she
glided in.
"Miss Goldsmith," he offered his arm whimsically, -
"Come spread your wings as I spread mine,
. And leave this crowded hall
For where the eyes ofttwilight shine
On evening's winter wall ;"
being translated meaneth, let's we  two get a quiet corner, and.
have a sensible chat. I despise danping. It s all very well
for ladies, in their trailing gown but I do hate to see a parcel
of men hopping about like kangaroos. .My father is a deacon
20)

f    ;
!     ,
';
, ,         "  ,
!
,i    t   1 ''
,,     a
4
f!
,    1 ,
i   i      c

tI
} 1'


WOMEN MAY LOVE, AND NEVER MARRY-

of the good old stamp, and I was brought up at the foot of
Gamil-hill, but when I was a little shaver I took a notion that
I must have a few lessons ini the mazy whirl, and the old gen-
tlerman's eyes twinkled, when he told me 'I might get a Couple
of stout apple sprouts and come out to the barn, and he'd help
me do all the dancing I wanted,' and I've lived long enough
to respect his excellent' judgment. Dervishes and Shakers
dance upon principle ; but I don't see what need brainy people
have to amuse themselves with kicking up their heels, when
there are so many rich mines of talk unworked. Look at my
friend Dexter, now ! where's the use of'his spinning round that
gait, making a pair of shears of himself ?"
" Why, Mr. Peebles ! aren't you in rather a bad humor this
evening?" asked Chris, laughing. "Is the Chip-Basket in
fault, or the Greek roots?"
" To tell the truth, Professor Noble has rasped my temper a
.little, nagging me over that infernal (I beg pardon Miss Gold-
smith) impracticable, flying-machine. I don't intend to fly my-
self, and I don't care a groat how many pounds of air it takes
to keep a man up, and push him along. There ! --(as a waltz-
ing couple hit his shoulder, and disturbed his centre of gravity)
-  there! that's just the way ; if you don't glue yourself to the
plastering, somebody is -always pitching into you."
" We will make haste and plant ourselves among the wall-
flowers, Mr. Peebles, till you find your good-nature, which you
have certainly mislaid in that unlucky flying-machine. You
rail like a Kate. There's a time to dance, you know. I don't
feel quite in the mood this evening; though I make it a reli-
gions duty 'to stand up whenever I am asked, I must say I
don't dote upon the amusementt"
They edged away into a cosy bow-window, and talked; and
John -Peebles'-tired face cleared, and his overstrung nerves

230

WOMEN MAY LOVE, AND NEVER MARRY.            231
relaxed; and a genial humor playing freely with his subjects,
took the place of his carping discontent, andsin. fact anybody
but" our preoccupied Chris, might have seen that he would
come to the "old, old story," before many more sittings. They
were interrupted in a spirited debate upon the "strong and
gentle singer of the crusades," disagreeing in merry mood over
his Tancred and rare Clorinda, by Madame, who came, wear-
ing her hostess-face, and said to Chris with an odd mixture of
respect and dislike.
"I have a duty for you, my dear. There's Mr. Fosdick,
my new young gentleman. I want you to take pity upon the
stranger, and make him feel at home. I hear from. his friends
that he is made of brains."
"But how shall I manage, Madame ?" replied Chris accept-
ing her office at once, and pleasantly, and returning the look
she got with one of perfect, self-possessed dignity, neither re-
tiring nor advancing.
"You must draw him out, my dear."
"Canst thou draw out the Leviathan with a hook," said Chris,
whose eye caught Sabrina's in that unlucky instant, and whose
soul fled on wings to Sonsie, her needs and.duties.
John Peebles' hearty laugh, and Madame's face, brought
Chris back, and she hastened to signify her readiness to amuse
the stranger, "all brains," but she stood up to dance with her
disobedient thoughts still busy, and the first number of the
"Caledonians" was over, before she awakened to the fact that
the partner was looking at her, and that she had, as ye
no effort to draw him out.
."Was Zoroaster an Egyptian or a Persian?" asked she.
The mnoulinet hindered any reply, except a stare; and in the
next pause, she returned to her conversational duties.
" Which of the Ptolemys was Cleopatra's brother ?"

f                       1      Si.
i         J
"                  ,R          i   1         t
i   4          f
i         J                        J
1                       t        If
i         '
i
. ! 1 J
'                {            I   f          J
,            I             J
I              I
'                                  l
,                                   t         t
t
I
f f ,
1
I,
i

F   4
',I I(I
f{I
I  I !
I I I  i
'J I


SONSJE GOES TO CONFESSION.

SONSIE .,GOES TO -CONFESSION.

" I haven't any idea, Miss, I'm sure," answered the brainy
man, beginning to look alarmed, and she finished him off .eeto-
tally, by saying in the next rest; --.a
" Who preceded Heliogabulus among the Emperors?"
As soon as the quadrille was finished, Mr. Fosdick made
haste to. hand his partner to a seat, and he watched her nar.
rowly, from remote corners of; the room, the remainder of the
evening..
" Chris, ChrisI what have you been about?" asked Sabrina,
who had been near enough to.hear her rather remarkable efforts
at making the stranger feel at horne.
" Why, I've been 'drawing out' that long-legged monster
over there by the window, as Madame directed Me, and I got
nothing for my trouble beyond "yes and no.' He:follows the
ecept too closely, 'let your communications be yea, yea, and
say, nay.'. "ButI wash my hands of him. I've done my duty
faithfully, and, by the way, Sabrina, where do you suppose my
Sonsie will be classed here ?".
CHAPTER XIX.
SONSIE. GQES TO CONFESSION.
HE Ulster maiden was sitting in dust and ashes, figra.
lively speaking, being down upon the floor in Ruth
Blair's kitchen, with her apron over her head weaving
back and forth, sobbing and meaning. Ruth found her in this
penitential attitude, wten she came in from "her walk with
Pigeon.  ..-
"Why, onsiewhat has happened?" she asked-in: alarm.

Sonsie thrust out an open letter without removing her veil.
"'Tis Miss Chris, who's been writin' to me. She says I'm
sinful, wicked, ungrateful, and . fly in the face of Providence,
that has raised me up powerful friends."
+ "She does! Why, what have you been about, Sonsie, to
deserve such hard words at the hand of our kind Chris ? "
" Leastways, she says it will be all that, if I don't put me
pride in me pocket, and -make meself a debtor for life to Mrs.
Vedder, and niver be able to hold up me head any more."
" That's very odd, Sonsie; it don't sound like Chris."
" Read the letter, please, Miss Ruthie, and see if ye don't
find it all there."
Ruth ran her eyes down the page, and rattled it back into its
folds, full of eager enthusiasm.i.
"And so you have a chance to-mske a.woman of yourself !
Go down on your knees directly, and thank God for his great
goodness!"
Sonsie pulled down her apron, and gazed upon her mistress
an instant.
"Will ye plase say them words again, Miss Ruthie:?"
Ruth did, say .thinf, and. even stronger than before, and
made the girl tell her the whole story.
"I'll go immediately an ese rsVedder myself," said she,
excitedly, "and talk it, over with her;; and I only? hope your
foolish conduct has not disgusted her, and so shut up her heart
that she will refuse to listen to me."
Sonsie looked about 'her as. one looks down a precipice over
which he has got to leap; and then, she searched Ruth's face,
and found only stern determination there. She rose, set her
arms akimbo, and turned her head over her shoulder.
"No, me mistress; I'll even go meself! Me two friends,
.'me white range and me good Miss Ruth, - ye'.d su   do

232

.233

I         I             1
I        .
I
,t          i         1    s
,I                    r
, t                   {    1
s
I        !    .
,             f
3
r
i              {
i
j
I
ji
I       , j        i   rl
z
i
'  ,        I I  I
I              f
tt'
t         '
!
t                   '
i         t.
i
t,
1    I ,              I


-23A

SONSIE GOES TO CONFESSION.

me no wrong; ye can't know the bitter taste of dependence-
I'll swallow the dose ; but if I must give up my freedom, i'
throw it down at Mrs. Vedder's feet meself! I'll not be
dragged to her like the prisoners Ollam Folda had chained to
the tail of his horse those times."
Ruth was amused, beneath her anxiety, by Sonsie's manner -
but she took care to keep a serious countenance.
Go, then, without delay, and do your work thoroughly."
Jan came in, and found the Milesian neatly habited, and just
drawing on her gloves.
"Whither away, Sonsie ?" asked he.
"I'm goin' to confession," she replied, darting a resentful
side-glance at him. "Ye can come along Wid me, for a young
heretic, and see how a true Catholic makes a clean breast of her
 sins. Ye'll have no call for yer teasin' talk, ---' Ollam Folda,'
and those, --I'm going' to put my soul into yer mother's hand,
and let her do anything she wants wid it. D'ye mind that
now !"_o
Jan threw a puzzled look at Ruth, beneath which there was
a gleam of exultation he was afraid of -showing..
"She intends -to be a very good child, Mr. Vedder, and beg
to be sent to school," said Ruth, smiling.
"AhI you have seen the folly of it, and are about to eat a
slice of humble-pie. I remember you once treated me to a.
goodly portion.. I found it wholesome. I can recommend
the regimen."
I' li have a pretty little mother confessor, anyhow."
"But you can't touch me there- I had a beauty."
If the young fellow hoped for any pleasure from his wall to
Brookedge, by the side of the girl who stepped off so fleetly, he
was disappointed, for she threw him nothing but jeers and
hor answers the whole way. Mrs. Vedder "was reading in

SONSIE GOES TO CONFESSION.

235

her easy-chair, with Polly Ann Maria on the arm, and Rainbow
and Flirt on the rug before the wood fire.
"Ye can stop there by the door, Mr. Vedder, sir," said
Soisie shortly to the young heir ; and "'twould do ye no harm
to pater a few prayers for yer own sins, while I am getting' me
shrift."
She walked proudly up to the 'amazed little lady, and
dropped upon her knees before her, looking straight into her
eyes.
"Will ye please let me go-to-school-at-yer-expinse, ma'am,
and - make-me-yer-debtor-andslave, till-such-time-as-I'm-able-to
Although much amused by the rapidity of the high-keyed,
one-toned utterance, Mrs. Vedder was also a good deal moved.
She fully comprehended the struggle which the girl had passed
through, and valued it as it deserved. -Her son was standing
expectantly in. the door, where he had been bidden to tarry
and pray; and she smiled at him before she took Sonsie's rosy
chin into her jewelled fingers, and questioned the honest eyes
which grew violet velvet deep beneath her gaze ; and she was
exceeding glad, and kissed her warmly.
"Wilt thou also come to my home and be mygood daughter,
thou brave child?" said she, softly and slowly. "Say 'yes'
quickly, and make us both happy -- me and my Jan."
The young man took a step forward, and Sonsie rose to her
feet proudly erect, her full bust out, and her round, fresh-
colored arm, from which the loose, b lack sleeve fell away,
extended independently toward him.
" I'm a grateful girl, Mrs. Vedder," said she. "I pray God
that he'll let me live to prove it. I'll take thankfully the hand
ye kindly reach down to me, and I'll put me soul into the work
ye offer, and try hard to be a credit to me purty patron; but

t  i j; E  i '   .'i
it   f{
!    l    .)
I
t        i
I
.  4_
;     I    "
;;  !
f      a
1  i
,

11


236

SONSIE GOES TO .CONFES$ZON.

I'm a servant, now, ma'am; I've took a place wid Miss Wal-
singham, as her maid,. till she comes from New York ; I'm to
work for her' wages; that's me. home just now. If I was
another girl, that hadn't been where I was, she might accept
yer goodness, and slip easily into the station ye offer. But ye
remember, ma'am, we talked agood bit, one day, over that
same, and I laid me' soul bare to you."
" Very well, my dear ; you may.-do your duty then; I will
not trouble you any more," replied Mrs. Vedder, as if the
service plan were no news to her. "I also shall come in, I
hope, for a share of your' kind 'offices on. the journey, because
my Jan and I are to be of your party. I love, of all things, to
be read toi sleep by a sweet :youpg voice, Sonsie. You should
be a rare reader,: with the delicate tones you are always giving
- the tips and downs. There's wonderful variety to you."
"Miss Zoet spake of yer-going, ma'am; and ivery thing me
two hands =an do, I'll do joyfully. ' Me bear is yours intirely."
Jant came striding. up.. "Stop to supper,, Sonsie," said he..
" Mother'll giveus Dutch pancakes with honey, and olykoeks ;,
and well have a game of billiards -while we are waiting."
"Yes, indeed, my dear child,-you must stop, because I have
to speak with 'you, about my plans. You are to be a school-
girl, -and my ward, 'as-son as you have finishes the service
with Zoe; andl there:are arrangements to perfect."
It Iolly,. put thekette on, 'and we'llsall have tea,",said the
green'parrot, launching her order at Sonsie, and changing her
eyes iito balls of fiere range light..
" She knows quite well, does yon burrd, which is the ser-
vant amongst us' three, ma'am;" said Sonsie, wwith provoking
brightness, as she took' off: her hat and cloak and hung' them
tidily' upon the; rack, and ,prepared, with clear-eyed attention,
to take up any occupation; which  her hostess offered her-; and

SONSIE GOES TO CONFESSION.               237
both mother and son felt that she never for one moment
forgot her valuation of herself, or the plan of life she had
marked out for her future, though she was sprightly, witty,
modestly-bold, through 'it all. - She had never seen a billiard-
table in her life ; but while Jan explained the- game, and made
some shots, she watched him with the concentrated attention
she was capable of, and, inspired by the desire she' had to do
every thing she saw others do, and rather surpass them if pos=
sible, she comprehended and took up a cue with: the utmost.
confidence in -her power to succeed, and made such a good
game that Jan declared she must be a secret votary of the art,
and might instruct:her teacher.
" Indade,: Mr. Vedder, ye were lilting so merrily while I
played, that. me balls could not choose" but rin gaily home to
yer music ; and I never took a whiff of me breath=to help it
either, as I saw you: doing just now, when the' red one tarried
on the edge of the pocket, like a burrd on the rim of its nest,
till ye just blew it in."
His mother laughed, and told him it was only her bright eyes
and steady nerves that helped her out. "Sonsie is a good
child, I know, and takes 'kind care of the temple. God has.
shrined her soul in," said she.
Jan laid down the cue softly, and walked away with so sor-
rowful a countenance that the quick-witted, sympathetic girl
guessed, his thought, and went after him, and engaged hih in
such a sharp dispute, and got so signally beaten, that he was
in harmony with himself again, and then the three had a charmn-
ing supper together.
"You see, mother, it% was that first kiss which spoiled my
game," said Jan.
"A kiss spoils a life, sometimes,-,my boy," she replied; and
Jan looked 'at Sonsie, and wondered if she remnerrbered how he

I                                 '
1
F ,
r,          1           1    r
+          r              i
f        p              ',       llll
p        I               t
{                        1
+         i        1          p    p
1               I
I
1                        f
+           1                  I               ,

        if,   ,
'
I         ' i  r
i  r  ,  !  '
'4i  i    ;
I  l,
, ,
'    t.              ,:
r       I, !  i ,      Y
fi ' ,'   ,'  I,1fI  [ ,

1 ;
.
.F  ,    i
k ';;
.,
      f
'{
.


238       SONSIE GOES TO CONFESSION.

SONSIE GOES TO CONFESSION.      239

had wished to touch her lips, on the hill, that day, and saw in
her: face that she had forgotten nothing ; and he would have
given anything, done anything, to blot it out from her thoughts.
Afterwards he left his mother and his love sitting close to the
piano, on which the fairy lady played Irish reels to the young
maid, and sang old ballads loved in her youth: " The Captive
Knight," "The Blue Moselle," "The Troubadour." She
gave them but once, and Sonsie owned them afterwards;
could reproduce them at her- pleasure. Jan had business, he
said, with his church committee, and would return and attend
the guest home in proper season.
Mrs. Vedder talked school, and mentioned Rosenbloom.
' Ah I Miss Chris is there," said Sonsie, kindling up.
"Yes, my child." Mrs. Vedder saw gladly how the warm
heart of her proteg6 glowed with love for her first friend, and
she smiled. "That, in fact, is a great reason why. I fixed upon
the school for you. It is, besides, the choicest one I know,
both for pupils and teachers. Some of the best blood in the
country is there ; and you will meet culture and grace and
fashion, as well as .scholarship.  Madame Groenveldt has
comprehensive ideas of what a school should be, and she
carries them out magnificently. You can't help getting on,
very way."
Sonsie listened, with her eyes upon her hostess' face, and
replied, -
"I can make those fine people to be most useful to me, in-
deed. A teacher ought to use all ways to get good manners.
It gives them power, that I know. And still, I'll keep neself
so quiet, that they'll nivir dream I'm observing 'em. In the
Bible, it says, '.be with 'em, but not of 'em.' That's just me,
case, isn't it, ma'am? "
Though the girl's face and manner were not particularly

promising for the elaboration of her plans, Mrs. Vedder went
on talking fast and talking well; but she could find no words,
no caresses, which would induce her to entertain for a moment
an intention to accept an outfit. When she was tenderly im-
plored to afford her hostess the pleasure of being kind, the
young girl seized the small hand which sought hers, and cov-
ered it with kisses, and poured out a flood of eloquence, half
sobs, half blessings, and was as firm as a rock.
"I'm going to school by yer kindness, Mrs. Vedder. Miss
Chris and me mistress says 'tis the right thing for me to put
me life into yer purty hand. I don't look like dyin'; do I
ma'am?".
She straightened herself before the little lady, and threw back
her shoulders.
" Not much, Sonsie, my dear; at least, not at this present
minute."
"I think I shall live; -I've prayed that I may, and I believe
I shall somehow get back me independence again, along of
yer goodness. I can't just see how, but I think it will be given
me. Just put yersel' in me place, ma'am, as much as a true-
born lady can feel the same as a poor Irish lass, and ye'll see
that though I do be thankful for the chance I'm gettin', it is not
right for me to take gifts to plaze me vanity --dresses and
things -and 'ye'll never be offended, I'm sure. I'll sell me
little black pig, and I'll save me wages that I earn with Miss
Zoe, and I'll be.decent and trim; and that is all I need. I've
a good plan for earning money in the holidays, that'll stead m
through."
Mrs. Vedder gave up in despair, and dreaded to acknowl-
edge her failure to her son ; and after the young people had
left her for their walk to the Horseshoe by moonlight, she
sat and turned the subject about and about in her thoughts,

4                j
fill


240

SONSIE GOES TO CONFESSION.

till she clapped ' her hands in glee over her happy inspiration;
the first step of which was to establish an acquaintance with
Ruth, and she considered herself justifiable in invading her pri-
vacy in such a cause; and the two ladies put their heads
together, and plottedlike Jesuits or women.
One day,: not long after Sonsie's visit to Brookedge, Ruth
took occasion 'to tell her a story of her own school experience.
Sonsie heard her attentively, and looking at the pretty
woman who' talked, she had little trouble to fill up her word.
pictures, of a young, blooming, modest little orphan, in poor
garments, slighted and ridiculed by the riders of the ponies,
and the wearers of silken robes and gauds ; and she answered
indignantly, but with undaunted mien, -
"'Tis thrue for ye, Miss Ruthie ! and I'd like to choke the
nasty villains for threatin' ye, so, and ye a nicelittle lady yersel'.
But I know who I am.    I go to school for the idication, and
sorra a fling they'll iver get at me, at 'all, at all, through me
kapin mesel' to mesel', entirely."
When Ruth changed her ground, and lectured severely, upon
the sin of flying in the face of Providence, and being. stiff-
necked and ungrateful, Sonsie turned white as a ghost, and her
eyes grew velvet. violet, while she thought,' and then she came
out clear, confident as ever.
"I cannot see that, Miss Ruthie.  'Tis no duty, sure, to
dress fine, at another's cost, when there isn't a chance for me
ivir in the world to pay the debt. If it was you, now, I'd be
joyful to take yer favors;' yer like the dear little mother to me,
only yer too winsome to be ary kin at all; but the gentlefolks
down 'at Brookedge, they're just strangers. 'Tis me only chance
for: a realdrespectable idication, and. I've 'given in to it, and I'm
goin' to be thankful. Please leave off tormenting' a poor girl any

THY LO0 VE? IS BETTER THAN WINE.         2 41
more, and tell Mrs. Vedder niver to spake again to me of
clothes."
Mrs. Blair confided her convictions . to Jan's 'mother, who
spoke hopefully to her son, but she was every day less confi-
dent of his success. The more she saw of the: firm strongrna-
ture of this girl, who counted all her steps,, the more thoroughly
she was convinced that her boy would have no chance with her
but what love would give him.  Gratitude, respect, she found
in her, and plenty of amusing mother wit, and she somehow
knew for certain that Sonsie Eagan had got to love with all the
strength of her bountiful nature, when she gave up her coy,
independent soul to the keeping of a husband. It was evident,
while she watched the two together, that no dream of love had
ever ruffled the waves of her being. She was easy and pleas-
.                     ..
ant with Jan, in a certain way, 'and' always talked unreservedly
with him, but it was, as he said, " across a gulf.  However
Mrs. Vedder kept her knowledge to herself and' hoped every.
thing from the four years she had planned for her prot6g6 at
Rosenbloom.
CHAPTER XX.
T y LOVE. IS BETTER THAN WINE.
AN and Peter had got the baggage checked, and their
W menfolk in aoodplaces.  The cars' were skur-
rying along" through bush' and brake, and past the
waving corn," (only the corn wasn't planted yet), and of
course they were to pick up Sabrina and Chris; it being, as Zoe
observed, just a few days out of their way.


{
f
'
,
,
3       I
{       i
f_
1
3
1f
1
7
i'
_1 ,
t.


242

'HY LOVE IS BETTER THAN WINE.

Our Chris received Sonsie with such kisses and smiles, that
Jan Vedder held his breath to see, and when it came his turn,
to take her hand, he could not help putting it to his lips. The
pupils looked on astonished ; none of them had ever gotten
such a demonstration ; even Zoe came in only second best;
but not one of her friends comprehended the mixed emotions
which swelled within her. When her love was new, the hap-.
piest hours were mixed up with Sonsie Eagan. She had prom-
ised the lass a home in Otho Groenveldt's house ; all the ten-
derness and joy of those days awoke ! and she fell upon her
neck and wept. Sonsie needed no betterendorsers. Sabrina's
elegance, Zoe's wit, and Christabel's scholarship, opened the
gates royal wide, and though, when she really became an in..
mate of the place, she - was made to suffer some slings and
arrows of outrageous girls, this day was all rose color, and
she longed for the time to arrive when she could begin, and-
conquer a place for herself.
Chris seized on the young maid eagerly, with excited coun-
tenance, and bore her off to red-nosed, gimlet-eyed Filer, who
declared that she was "tired to death of striving with the pots-.
herds of the earth" (meaning stupid scholars), and who, after
having given a parting cypher to the last of the potsherds, sank
back with a weary sigh, dreading to undertake a new lot.
"Here, you good Filer," said she, "I've brought you some-
thing ! a rara avis ! an emerald ! pure and clear ! a soul un-
spotted,-and as sweet as a rose, and she's my friend, but 'll let
you share in her love.  We are to have her here; not ',ong
your potsherds, though, because I'll. tell you a secret -- she's got
the most wonderful gift of story-telling, and the richest brogue..
She'll -weave you tales that will make' you wipe your eyes, and,
sob for sorrow. She thirsts for knowledge ; she'll work like
a cart-horse or a beaver; you may stuff her, Filer, cram her, and

SONSIE LEARNS THE :DUTIES OF A MAID.        243
she'll go down on her knees and thank you. 'Here, Sonsie,
show how your eyes can laugh ; there ! did you ever see the
like of that ? This is my teacher, my-good, dear, friend, and
she's going to be yours. She nursed me when I was sick, and
such toast as she can make. Come here, Sonsie, and kiss Miss
Filer, directly."
The amused Celt obeyed instantly, taking in the. situation,
and comprehending the character offered her at once, and
Chris put her arms around them both, and thrust her head be-
tween, and kissed two -cheeks, one rosy and tempting, and
the other, thin, wrinkled, and old,. and it were hard to tell
which of the two recipients felt most pleasure in her affec-
tion.
"Here !" said she, seizing a bundle of themes the teacher
held, "I'm to do those, and you're to get your candle out by
ten o'clock this night, or I shall give you a failure -yea, a
cypher, Filer."                             /
CHAPTER XXI.
SQNSIE LEARNS THE DUTIES OF A MAID.
HE St. James I the quietly elegant, the luxuriously
comfortable! the prince of hotels ! Who knoweth the
perfection of the gregarious living which Americans
delight in so thoroughly, as the favored ones who have basked
in thy. enjoyments.  A glance into thy "tea-room," as you
turn the Broadway corner, is suggestive of entrees and piquant
sauces. A going up thy broad staircase, to the apartments
above, is travelling toward Paradise.  After life's fitful fever,
you sleep well ; you rise refreshed ; you ring your bell, and you I

I    .'   r
j. ,
;j  4
I
}
f
'    '   ,{
{{'r
f         I   }
(    1
,
1 ,            1 ~
i
i ,

i,
fi ;
i
:j


244   SONSIE:LEARNS' THE D UTIES OF A MAID.
get it answered. "Maike a date n't ye traeJlgrs, and your
fresh 'towels and}soda: Vater :neyer.ljinger. ' Yon ;4escend to
breakfast through spacious hals;: so-.dimly quiet that you seem
to :be the only inhabitant of a enchanted palace. You are
ushered in by :a gentleman in full dress, waving a white nap-
kin instead of a wand. You are waited upon by another gen-
tleman, also in full dress, who evidently considers you the only
party in the houseworthy his attention; and while the beloved
concentrates his .energies upon the task of picking out a choice
breakfast, you. glance . into the " World," which you have just
purchased of the bland boy in the grand office, dreading what
the fearful critic. may have been about while men,.slept ; and
just as your eyes are fastened upon the book-table, you hear
cordial voices at your elbow, and southern accents which sylla-
ble your. name, and you .instantly rise to. be greeted as only
those whole-souled. people do greet afriend ; and, you plunge
into a sea of talk about the old plantation days, their'horse-
back rides and frolics about New Orleans, the orchestral con-
certs at Odd Fellow's Hall. tli.eiiights at the French Opera,
when the boxes sparkled in jewels and lovely flower-adorned
women; the promenades on Canal street, the gorgeous children
in " riotous needle-work," their gay-turbaned nurses, the sweet-
faced, simplemannered maidens'; and you inquire, with a regret-
ful sigh, .ifthere be: still requiemsand mass in the old French
cathedral; AQwers in Jackson Square ; d-gr s  unmings
in carnival time; and if the "Mystic Krew of.Komus still
makes the street spectacle with their wondrous transforma-
.  ..
tions adnd, y g faintly whisper a fear that the dear, ga  old
city is named " Icha od," since the reign of the g t spooney
one .     . , ,,''at          ° :
Zoe hated to giveup her  iters rt her favorite Metropoli-
tan;: but when sheerne tht t he Floences were in Europe,

SONSIE LEARNS THE 'DUTIES. OF A MAID

and the " dear delightful".' Ticket-of-Leave Man-" "played
out," and Niblo's stage full ofd half-naked women and red" and
blue fire, she left off pouting her lips, " cherry ripe and pro-
voking," and gave in to sturdy Peter; 'and after a day in her
rooms, the St. James was ,her hotel, and the Metropolitan no
more to her forever.
Their party 'had a whole hall to themselves, with a parlor in
their midst, looking into Broadway's evei--shifting sights, the
toilers and the idle ; and the chimes of the church behind them
played sweet hymns, and called them to come and pray. Son-
sie found her maid's place a sinecure, from the 'moment of
leaving Roaring River; .and so busy were they all talking
together, that Jan made it easy to drop into a seat by the side
of the girl he loved, and for whose pleasure and profit he was
taking the journey.  '
The two little mammas sat cosily in front of them chatting,
and being appeyed to and petted by the whole party; so he
amused himself with pointing out all objects of interest, and in-
venting fabulous tales of Irish romance, and twisting his Dutch
tongue'into her brogue, and enjoying to the full his accustomed
teasing, provoking talk, and her ready, piquant replies ; and he.
was in absolute good 'humor ; being one of those .rare gentle-
men who love .to engineer a party, and who take easily all the
disagreements of travel, and make the most of its pleasures;
who never lose any baggage, mistake any routes, nor abuse
porters or hackmen, and are never betrayed into saying "mill-
darn" under the most aggravatingly provoking concatenation
of circumstances.
Poor Chris had a hard day for her ,first, in the cars, trying to
dominate and keep under hei memories. ier only other jour-
ney had been .so thrilling, sweet. Her' eyes would fill sometimes,
in spite of her efforts to listen and seem attentive to John Pee-

4]

I t   ,+  .rs
1    .1         tI           t
'           I   !     z
!  r                            '
J     t         r      _
I                  !      t    t
1         t
i     1         l
t         i      '

245

,4 r l ,I ,  ij,
i , ,.i..


2|6   SQNSIE. LE ARNS THE DUTIES OF A MAID.
bles' sensible talk. Oh,. the intolerable bitter of the to seem,
when the to be has been wrecked in a life-storm. Still, I think,
none of them observed any want in' her. Even John, himself,
whose eyes found ever-renewing food for conteniplation. in her
face, never guessed how her hungry soul longed for a little
taste of its old happiness. Good, quiet Bertha sat apart. She
heard Zoe's talk with Sabrina,-"silks, poplins, point-lace, and
cashmeres,"-ithad little significance to her. She was thinking
of a handsome boy who threw oranges into her lap, and, with
her veil down, she indulged herself in recalling every word and
look Chandy had given her that day ; and she remembered
also Chris's saying, "'We know that women may love, and
never marry."
The girls flitted from room to room, while the luggage was
coming up, and looked through each other's windows; and Son-
sie, as soon as she found which was to be Zoe's room, began
putting up her things, and was just going for the keys to take
out the dresses, when Mrs. Vedder peeped in.
"My daughter" (she seemed to take intense pleasure in the
word), "come with me. I must have your room next mine,
because I like being read to sleep, you know, and your voice is
sweet and pleasant to my ear ; and I've fetched along 'Legends
of Ireland,' to begin with, till you and I have an opportunity
to take a turn among the bookstores and find something nice
and new."
"Ohyes, Mrs. Vedder, as soon as Miss Zoe has dismissed
me, I'll be there gladly."
That young lady came flying along, and gave Sonsie a little
push.
"Go !" said she, "get ready for dinner ; I need not :say
'make yourself nice,' because you are always that, and  L know

SONSIE LEARNS THE DUTIES- OF A MAID.

247

you will never keep anybody waiting :. I wish I could say as
much for myself."
The lassie was about to speak of the keys and her duties; but
she changed he'r mind and did as she was bid.
Mrs. Vedder's room opened into Sonsie's; but the door was
shut between them, and nobody intruded upon her privacy,
while she, arranged her trifles upon the table, and laid out her
Bible and prayer-book, walking briskly and enjoyingly about
the place, examining every thing, and turning over the events
of the journey. -She was well pleased, too, With herself, in her
spotless black gown, clear white cuffs and little collar, and she
tied back her hair with a bright green ribbon, and looked as
fresh as a rose. She had been gazing, for a quarter of an hour,
down upon the street, wondering if the hand-organ, which the
one-armed fellow ground at so industriously, made any noise,
because none reached her elevated position; and thinking
about a houseful of street-musicians, and strolling children,
she and Dennie used to know ; and of'the hard times they had ;
the beatings and starvation; and of the offer she'had got once
to travel with a handsome, wicked young Italian stroller, with
whom she had lilted and danced, and who played a harp, and
.of the free, gay days he had promised her under the trees,
among the hay-ricks (which had killed her friendship for him);
and then of Jan Vedder and' his Irish harp,- Jan, whQ had
said, " I'd willingly put the world behind me to live such a life
in your company, Sonsie!" - and she dropped upon her knees
before the white bed, and covered her face with her hands. I
cannot tell the color of her thoughts, nor what manner of, peti-
tions she offered; but I know that when there came a soft tap
at her door, and she composedly rose, her lashes were Wet,
and her heart was strong and brave. Chris stood before the
opened porte, in her rosy gray dress and musk-rose breast-knot;

i  ri
ail
,'  ,  '
,;
(    ' ,    i,
t'1'   ;
j} "  I '  (''
I;I~ iti!
f  fi ' ,  ,
, '   ;
,
i      v ! .

t
{ ,
i
t          t
1      t
r      t
t
l
t
t      E
rf
t
'          j
t
I
i
t
f             F
1   I      !
I  t      tj
t /  1     1 1
{          f+
-f        {     r
{
t
t
'   j l    {pi
f
t   "      !
t'

i;i   .t
,,      {   -
" , '
,        i   i
F   '  1
,i      i
"..                 I
i
I
!
1  +  '    .,
{  1        i  ;  '
j


24$   SONSIE LEARNS THE DUTIES OF A MAID.
and she floated through into -Sonsie's anms. She grasped in her
hand a bunch of damask buds, which she held up to the Ulster
maiden's -face, and smiled.
" Just the color of your' cheeks," said she, "and smell how
they have the odor of Paradise. I shall fasten them into your
bonny green snood, and every breeze that kisses them will toss
you down a thought of me. I can give you no more flowers
after these, which, you see, my dear Papa Groenveldt put me
into waxen mittens; because he knows I love a blossom in my
breast ; but they will all droop before to-morrow. My good,
good Sonsie ! howI rejoice ! how glad I am for you ! I have
had no privacy, as yet, in which to say how happy it makes me
to know- that you are to be mine in Rosenbloom, my very own!
I know, quite well, that you can never feel toward any other
girl as you feel toward me,; your eyes tell me how pleasant I
am tor you. -You never look at anybody else as you look at me,
and I am very glad. Your intense loving nature is such a mar-
vellously gorgeous treasure-queen, who gives royally and blesses
in bestowing as also in receiving. Ah ! how you will adore a
husband, some of these days! But mind, I'm first. I know I
am one and all to-day ; then I shall be only' somewhat. Oh,
how often I have wished for your strong arms to fold me in
loving clasp,' and to rest: my head just here, Where I can hear
your true heart beat."
Sonsie rained kisses upon tge chestnut curls which swept her
shoulders, and she held rosy-tipped fingers in her supple ones,
over which she breathed such words as a devotee murmurs to
her patron saint ; and after a-little Chris stood up and put her
haids upon the young girl's shoulders, and studied her, think-
ing of her as Jan Vedder's wife in her " absolute perfection of
bodily health, and her full capacity for mental pefettability ;"
and she intuitively felt that Jan was twiser- than his .fellows.

.SSrS. LEARNS wgTZtS OF    A -MAID,

249

Pretty soon, a sound'of shuttingiddors, of' l'eys 'turned in thei
locks, and ,,sbdaed voices apjroached;ad the mothers any
young girls'cane dressed foi dinhet, accompanied bythe ger
tiemen. Zoe -stuck her head into 'her Maid's room.
Cone, Sonsie I" saibd she; cisply; "core ;,we are going
down now. Yes, of course,=all dressed  Ikiw ofWere not
what Peter calls irreverently, ' Procrastinating tItivator."  Oh,
dear! why couldn't Ihave such a skininstead of 'this Spanish
brown coating, like a harvest girl, or a contadina."
"Why, Zoe I" began:Peter, remonstratingly, and most admir-
ingly.
f' Oh, es;, tkow Pete does pie the compliment to say
lie could not have fancied me a shade diffeTrent. 'I suppose I
ought' to be satisfied; audI ari eall=y Peter, Aon't look so ut-
terly extinguished,- - only li at. Sonsie ic so 'provokiiglymilk-
.white ; bring her along, Chris '
Zoe.laid her' hand upon Peter's arm, and treated it to just
one little squeeze, andaiglancewhich sank into hisheart ; and
Sonie stepped back, with her'head.up4
.  No, dear Miss Chris, it ,isaot.seemly foir rme, theJmaid. I
know itr is; not the ;fashion of thde great places;'I4must not for-
get me station; folks might happen-think nene °lady?"
Chris's arn;stole around 'her fir :waist:' "  proud humil-
ity!" whispered'she. "Let me iear no iore sudh words as
those ; we count 'our Sonsie a gentlewoman Of God's kind crea-
tion, and 'tis for you to' prove us right; therefore cone at once
and'do your mistress' bidding."
Sonsie looked into the speaker's eloquent face; and;her deep-
eningvioleteyes: were lustrous with thoughts a and she threw a
swift glance at the group about the dor,whiih lighted for a
flash upon Jan and his little: bloo2ain lidymrnther ; Jan in

I     ;1      '           .      !;
ij                          t
t       l     ,i                  : 1
S
I          i        t
I       '      i   $
r                    '
1   I
I                     '-
j       '      !   E             I
f      (       I   i        i
1     ' I'                  +
'!       t                    Y
I          }
I          S
I                           {
t
1
'       I          1
I
i                           I
,       i      i   {
I           ;       ',
I        j
i       I
i                   +      S
,
,      1
M             I        i
i
,                 ,{         't
I
I   1

it i


250 SONSIE LEARNS TIIE 277aTIE$ OF A MAID.
easy-fitting suit of travelling-gray, and she in rustling silk, who
were both watching her ; and she advanced at once. -
"Yes, Miss, Zoe," said she in her modest-bold way, "I am
at your service ; may I carry your mantle ?"
"Certainly not. I have full use of my arms, and if I hadn't
I should pack my luggage on to Peter ; that's why I. permitted
him to come."
"I thought such offices were part of a maid's duty, Miss
Zoe."
" That is a particular and- complete - misapprehension of
yours, Sonsie."
" Will you please instruct me, then, Miss Zoe, so that I may
blunder no, more ?"
Oh yes, willingly, Sonsie. First and foremost,.your duty is to
eat a good dinner; that finished, I will farther unfold to you
your responsibilities."
Peter looked at his fiance in admiring wonder, and Jan took
care to become immediately. absorbed in conversation with his
mother, which made him turn his shoulder upon the talkers,
but which did not hinder his taking possession of the Ulster
maiden, at the door of the tea-room, and placing her by the
side of the fairy matron, who beckoned her joyfully saying,
"Come, my' daughter, here by me ;" and Chris wished to
take a:chair alsoat the little table, but was,*hindered by Peebles,
who, smiling, begged her to get her dinner with him, while she
explained her idea of the "function for cognizing juxtaposi-
tion, and the function for cognizing an inherent concretion;"
and Zoe=made a horrible face;, and -said disgustedly,
"Oh; do I you two take a table all to yourselves; I've to go,
to-morrow morning, down to Lord &amp; Taylor's to look .at silks
and velvets, and decide upon other matters of vital importance,

SONSIE LEARNS TIlE DUTIES OF A MAID.

251

and I don't choose to have what little brains I've got addled
by any such learned nonsense."
And the bland gentleman in full dress, who had been politely
waiting their time, did show the two 'to a. small niche in the
corner, where there was a gilded shelf for the finger-bowls and
doylies, which made a capital place for their books, and: where
they proceeded- to talk it out " on that line ;" though they
agreed better as to dinner-edibles than abstruse doctrines, for
both ate the simplest fare the bill afforded, and both drank
water from the Croton. After dinner was over, Sonsie went
up and took Chris's hand reverently, and led her to her apart-
ment, and shut the door.
"Miss Chris," said she, "what makes a lady ?"
Chris replied readily, and wonderfully pleased,
" Purity, truth, delicacy, culture, and it may be, purple blood ;
but that is as God wills ;'" and as Sonsie held her to- a clear
definition of her words, she gave it fully, distinctly. The
attentive lassie thanked her, kissed her hand, and went away to
her own room and conned over what she had got.
"There's the O'Roukes- for the purple blood. Purity !
The Bible says, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall
see God. That means in heaven ; or no - it means that the
pure shall be able to find the purity that God has put into his
creatures.. I see it in the face of me white angel. Truth. I've
got thatin me soul.- Holy Mother be thanked! Delicacy.". She
thought a long time over that, and shook her head despairingly.
Then her eyes deepened and cleared. "I'll ask the dear Christ!
And the culture," -here she set her arms more Hibernico, -
"I'll work up the culture. for meself as far as it lies in me to
find it, thanking God and me kind friends."
She tied 'on her hat, auitknocked at Zoe's door. "I'm goin'
down to the church beyant, wid the sweet-voiced chimes, to

I'
S it
I
I
!  ' Il
I

. .      i
1 '; l '  t!'-
'  I1   ;
, ,,           ,  ,  !
i   ,   i       !     ;
4 ,E ' ' ! 1  1
i      !  E
,
!,;''T          il!      ,
''
!    !''    !        4  ,,
,1 ',  I I ,
,;, i,  .,,;.
' i,' !!i!I i
ii  l;'I ,; IFFI  i
7    !!'I,    1, !4 , 1
11 , 1l   !++
!  ! ' .. i i .f .! !!,1


2&amp;     SONSIE LEARNS THE DUTIES OF A MA. t
say me prayers, mistress," said she, smiling, "if ye've no ser-
vice to keep iMe."
"Sonsie, -come in here," ordered Zoe imperiously; "shut
the door ! Now listen ! 'I've got a great deal on my mind;
'e going to be married, and I must be able to concentrate my
en'i-upon 'my 'business; I say once for all, don't speak
th  *&amp;d mistress' -to me' again! -I won't, bear it.- I know
you'do"ith iiinfun, but I can't see the joke. Y u shall be my
friend; y  u shall not dare th -mention service to me, except
such as one'oiing girl offers another. I thought your good
sense would make all this ,clear to you, but I see it needs jog-
ging. You may fasten my gloves and button my boots, arnd you
may kiss me When6you've finished, and I'll do the same for you.
'Tis of -no sie' for yot to open 'your'eyes at me,or toss your
led,ior get fuir arms akimbol  -that, by the way, is a shock..
ing habit hot Ihat it''ill-becomes you, but you'd better' drop it.
You might' middle your thumbs henever you feel it necessary
to girk vent to your feelings. 'ou 'see, Sonsie, ni dear girl,
we are too many for you' you shall be-one of us -- 'a Roaring
River'-girl- -='we are nice I We all like' you; and you are to go
to school. I ami so glad of that, Sonsie; tand Sabrina is rejoiced~
too, 'and Bertha,~ and mamma,' and Peter  ' Of course you
can dodge off-into a missionaryofield, or crop out into-a teacher,
orzgo for 'a' Sister of Mercy, if" yo  like, when your four years
are up; but till then yon are under bonds, and you rust come
harrioniausly into the place you have promised to fill. Now
go and' pfra as much as you think is good for" you. Pray for
me, Sonsie, and 'ay Peter," she added, her eyes full of tears,
and she rushed at the,'girl who was keeping under all feeling
while she listened, and kissed her.2 e There, go," she finished,
pushing her -off5 i and when you come back youtil leave your

SONS E LEARA_ TA'E.? I fES 'OF A MAID.

253

rebellious face behind you and look sweet at me, and we'll all
go and see the pictures together."
"Yes, Miss Zoe, thank you. It is main strange, I think.
Ye hired me to be yer maid, and I consented to take the ser-
vice, and I'm going to be a good faithful 'maid. ' uoe
there was plenty to do."
"So there is ; more than we can accothplsh        Wof,
educating work."
" But, Miss Zoe, I think ye had no right'
"'I know a nai4en fair to see -tak caie3
She can both cross and friendly be-beware!

Won't you kiss me, Sonsie?" '
Zoe put up her cherry ripe mouth;t Sonsie looked at it, and at
her black eyes, full of wilful mischief, and also bririn  over
with pretty kindness, and the cdar bhie i heatown deepened
into violet, and her.face was allwhite as she lifted Zoes brown
fingers 'toher 'lipsrand walkedtoudly away:,
"I'll notmar the-pleasure of your fairing time bf any humors,
Miss Zoe," she thought ; "no morewill Iforget reself 'Twas
kindly meant, fi sure, but Inm Soisie Eagan all yer fine
words and all yer intentions can't: change &amp;  ' Delicacy and
culture!l' they'renotzmine4,,heinudof the treets clings to me
garments; 'but since ye :ilit so, llstake it as  'gift from
Heaven, and be thankfu for a bit of a good time.

[ I'
AI
PAY'

11
y
i


EINES FREUNDES STIMME.

CHAPTER XXII.
EINES FREUNDES STIMME.
L but the two mammals, who were too fatigued for
any further exertion, and preferred a quiet chat-in the
-great parlor, agreed to spend the evening at the Dus-
seldorf Gallery, and two young fellows were certainly very
happy during that walk- I think I might shy three, perhaps.
Jan Vedder had Sonsie Eagan on his arm. It had never hap-
pened before, much as he had walked about the country in her
company; and when he got the round, supple member to rest
lightly on his coat-sleeve, he felt as if he had made a-long stride
toward;his wishes. There was a certain brisk power in the tap
of Sonsie's firm foot, and an enjoying outlook from her deep,
clear eyes, which made it a pleasure to walk by her side, and
the two stepped out as though a ten or twenty mile walk:
would be play to them; -but Mr. Jan hardly knew his ground,
nor the spirit which possessed the soul of the Ulster maid, who
had not yet digested her meditations upon Christabel's "lady.",
Chris walked with John Peebles, and let him talk about con-
cretions and juxtapositions; and, as an hour :with Miss Gold-
smith was the highest form of 'happiness John Peebles knew,
when enriched by metaphysics andGreek roots, he more than
enjoyed it.
A Venus de Mer, near the entrance of the gallery, fixed Chris's
eyes, and sent her thoughts back to the' old studio, and the sit-
tings she had given her papa for his golden-haired picture of
the sea-shell goddess ; and she was still standing before it when
Sonsie came back to her..
"o dear Miss Chris t is there niver ary Irish painting
amongst the whole of these ?"

" No, Sonsie ; there have been Irish painters, -Joe Ellis, for
instance, - who 'personified the very creamwof Hibernian good
nature.' He was an- original fellow, too; studied his subjects
as seemed to him good, and imitated nobody., He went up to
London full of Irish life and .hope, and wit and frolic; and he
finished some good pictures, and got some success and a;little
money, till he fell in with a- crafty rogue, who duped him owt
of his best efforts, under the character. of friend; and afterward,
till he died in poverty, he slaved for picture-dealers, and re-
peated endless views'of Venice, which were colored and sold
for antiques. He was a gifted gentleman, but he lacked pru-
dence and foresight, 'small loss' and 'divil may care,' being
favorite comments of his upon great misfortunes."
" Just as Mr. Jan said," thought Sonsie; " Irish folks are
always jumping into bramble-bushes. I'll not do that same.";
"Then there was that Elniere," went on Chris, "who
painted , dreadful- picture of Marie Antoinette. facing the mob
of the Tuileries. It would keep sleep from your pillow to look
at, Sonsie ; so we won't talk about it. Then there was--let
me see--one Maclise, of Cork; he painted the 'Origin of the
Harp.'"
"Yes !" exclaimed Sonsie,  her quick cheery way of utter-
ing this monosyllable when-she was pleased, is indescribable,--
"the Irish harp, is it, Miss Chris? Mr. Vedder says I should
have one of those."
"I quite approve," answered Chris, sedately. "After you
have studied the piano it might be an excellent plan. You've
such pretty hands and arms, and you will despise the sore fin-
gers and the blisters. Zoe tried it and', she got disgusted the
first week, and kept her digits in glycerine, and grumbled and
scolded for a whole month; but she used' tohave creeping fits
when her finger nails hit the piano keys. Sabrina often teases

2b4

ElATES FRE NDES -s7Z . E.

255

' Yt
r     j         f}!    r~
t    ,''               Nz
,                +      ti
+
I                 t      f
i     (       y1,   ff;
"'                 t              r:
o                            ff-    yT,
I         t '           gyp.
+I'         I       t     x
1  t
'''(  "  i^~ is


.556

N4S F d 'RL.UATViD~iES ".4Y7IM &amp;~

her over the fusses she made, and, the flat mode of execution
she persisted in through all her early practice, because of the
cold chills it gave: her (poor sensitive little-Zoe), ahtd the frantic
rages of her teacher."
"Sensitive Zoe, :" repeated.Sonsie to herself, going over her
-ecent conversation; "1  onder did I hurt her $bisday?". She
lookedkeenly atChrisendeavoring to find dut if ishe had any
'hidden :meaning or warning or instruction.:
" Mulready of Ennis-all. I;r member about hinis a picture
papa had called- tIdle Boys,' which he copied. in .a 'private
gallery in London, and; he!made Chandos study it ever so long
once, 'when 'he failed in: his L~ti. Dear papa- co ld be so
severe, and he expected such perfection of us.; and yet I never
rememberone' crosslook or singly hasty.ward:. Oh, how well
I canrecall the smel' of .the oils, adh the:kwers IWas copy-
ing iny water-colors, and how sorry I felt that papa was so
displeased with (Jhandy.. I believe IJhad Onst of the-sorrow to
myself, though, for Chandy 'always rose. up under trouble like a
popping Jack. :Such rich, full, happy, happy.ays those were."
Chris roused.herself-with:p..ffrt'
"These pictures, Sonsie, are all the work of long-bearded,
beer-drinking,"pipasmking I)utchmei.",
" Like. 'me for istan, asaid.mie athe elbow."
The.tone pietvedvChris's 'heart with.an arrow from her bitter
past. She wheeled about and was face to',face i:wth Dr. Max,
Otho Groenveldt's :frjeind  $is hand was extended ;and his
eyes, the-'color of, a smok etopaz- glimmered with joy. He
took the=fingers offered hir, and with theother hand he
caressed his yellow heard -a Dutch picture of' rich content.
"What 'a utky fellow:I am, Mees Goldschid, to meet you,
and find that yoin rememberr me and our valse at: Rosenbloom
that encviand evening."      ,

EINES FREUNDES STIMME.

257

A' pangclutched' Christabel's heart, and blanched her face,
and Max went on speaking rapidly.
" I am off in a couple of days for Germany.' I hope 'twas
my good angel had me in convoy when I came, idly to this
place. I 'knew I' was looking for something rich and choice,
and I was just thinking of you,- too, when,. I heard your voice.
I never forget voices. I 'think we; shall take thern to' heaven
with us; of a certainty, no-celestial harp can ever give us such
dear music as Eines Freundes Stiere."
The young German's leonine eyes' spoke his feelings so
plainly that Chris withdrew her hand in trembling. confusion.
Max mistook her emotion, and 'read its signs 'to suit his wishes.
Men are always making 'such mistakes.
"I was about to journey toward Rosenbloon Mees Gold-
schmidt, to take leave "ofthe.yGroenveldts 'afid' get news of, my
friend Otho, who has been a lo t : Pleiad 'to me ever since we
parted at the station last: :Christmas, and also to 'have another
valse with das fraulein Goldschmidt: or , ore truly one more
small talk - for. the talking was varee' mooch more charming
than the valsing,- and also to'execute a commission I had' or
her, a sort of bequest which1has been travelling in'search of an
owner, like Cinderella's 'slipper."
It was a painful'.half-hour; for Chris, but full' 'of fascination.
Max's constant reference to 'Oth "in his talk, and his evident
delight in this chance meeting which 'he expressed in, his-rich
German and. rather inverted;'English, and every flash of his
yellow-brown eyes; his embarrassing inquiries=about her life,
and' the vivid recollection' he showed for ekery one of her looks
and words in; the great ball-room at Rosenbloom, stirred her
pulses and sent her thoughts Whirling;among her memories in
such giddy waves that "her flushing colorfled ayc came in
22.P .

,,

c    ;
{  '
i    [
}(
++
r    }  '
r  ,     ,
f
'  I
,   {
i    .c  ,
e
"
°

'+t
s    4r
S    }

}    :_t'
"y  t     11     i
,I  t    ,2      J
'  1 I    I, I     _  '     S
,I
tri  F     t
t          t
li  f      i'h f       t  ,
1It f '  "   1i 1'      1:
1


EINBES FREUJNDEST'MME. .AEFEVMA2

crimson gusts,- and her wistful eyes got humid with unshed
tears.
Sonsie:stood modestly apart while they talked, weighing the
young doctor in her mental balance, observant of his attitudes
and gestures, - insensibly comparing him -with a young hunter
she knew, and noting also her darling's demeanor; and, all un,
skilled as she was in love, she guessed the solution of the
tumult of emotions which trembled over her and fluttered
through her parted lips in sweet warm breath.
Before the others had made the tour of the inner galleries,
he was .gone, and they found the two young girls standing
quietly before the great picture of "Desdemona listening to
her Moor ;" and Chris, with a tired face, was explaining the
story in a low smooth voice to Sonsie, whose eyes never left
the brown ones she loved. She wondered if she would speak
of Max, knowing almost beforehand that she could not, and
admired the ready attention and patient look she gave John
Peebles, who descanted at length: upon a series of Pompeian
frescos he had been studying with a view to their mythological
meaning, and which lasted him till they entered the St. James
vestibule, and he had still something to say about it when they
sat down to supper, when Jan rather "troubled the pool" of
his thoughts by putting it to the assembled party whether or
no they could fully agree with Antoinette- Brown in her "de-
nunciation of sentient but irrational natures constituted accord.
ing to sentient or qualitative piixiciples co-ordinated with math-
ematical ones, all alike incomprehensible to the irrational na-
tures themselves ;" which had the effect to hush up good John
for the time ; and while they were all laughing, Jan said, -.
"What do you think, Sonsie?"
"I think you talk as clear as mud, sir."
"Thank you," replied he, slipping into the place next her;

"and now, then, the next point we'll make will be a good sup..
per. What shall you and I have ? Shall we order a chicken
and trofles, or kidneys, champagne sauce, or potted shrimps,
or -"
"An is it supper, sir, an' the clock goin' the half hour past
eleven; I'd be grateful for a sup of milk, though, if I might
get it-"
Jan laid down the bill.
"Better take the Croton without the chalk, Sonsie : that is a
general rule ; but I'll order some for you. I suppose they've
got a farm of their own, these St. James folks, so we may get a
pure article, and, apropos of milk, Peter and I are to examine
some imported stock while we're here. Ydu remember that
farm we overlooked from the up-pasture ? Well, I'm going to
put some fine cattle upon that place."
" Have you found a tenant, sir ?"
"I have my eye upon one now, Sonsie"
As he happened to be staring at Peebles, that young person
remarked,
"Thank you, sir. I am sure you do me too much honor.
Cincinnatus went from the plow to the consulship, but I should
be fearfully out of place on a farm, if you mean me."
"You,"friend John ! Why you'd be feeding the cows Greek
roots instead of cabbages. I referred to my mind's eye, which
is, at this moment, in Roaring River, admiring an active, tight-
built chap, who. is not afraid of any honest work."
"A nice, healthy, hearty, young Irishman, then. Isn't he,
sir? " asked Sonsie, laughing.
"Well,,yes. He does happen to be, and I'm going to put a
lot of Irish cows on the farm, too. There's a drove of Kyloes.
just over down the bay. I want some of them. I'll bet a hat
you don't know what I'm talking about- Miss Ollam Folda."

t      ;-
,;
;' F
t           _
.J
,i,.i
i
r, i      '   '
(x     '     ;
!
.I
i    E
?     v
f
',;      f
t    a$
,'1  ,           i
:      t
f' I

IL  I   ,
" r; ' I t'; i

.' (i
,
f      f
f i      ! ' s
,
f  f  ; f  E4{
!   S  f
t
E  ,
i
I
s
4           ?

258

259

LINES, FRE UND.ES - STIMM.E.


O EINES FREUNDES SkTIAME
"You'd lose your wager, sir, for I happen to know quite
well. The master of the mills had a packsof the little, short,
thick, black creatures, tough and bold, and wild-eyed; they're
no milker's butt, only fit for beef."
"Well, Sonsie, my new tenant will make his own beef: He
is going to farm on enlightened principles; -and he has got a
good backer. I must have a couple of Kerry cows. I wish I
had cut my eye-teeth when I had the chance to get those at
Blarney Castle ; three of them would give twenty-one gallons a
day. That beats your Ayrshires all to finders, eh ! Peter"-
"Your statements are hollow, sir r as hollow as a pumpkin;
give me Guernsey cows for my dairy  or Alderneys - or my
noble Ayrshires - who milk pure cream."
"You are befogged, Peter, ny boy - the little Kerrys sup-
ply all the conditions : in the'first place, they only cost about
five pounds; and they eat like women, just a sup and a taste of
something nice and delicate. I'll have a Kerry bull anyhow -
and six cows, and I shall buy some Kyloes ; and'then if I see
any Ayrshires -";
"Very 'wll, Jan; 'go ahead, my boy; we'll try it out this year,
and take then=merits of the' sorts fairly. Did you hear Peter's
last, Zoe? Vou know, I suppose, that he has been cutting off
his maple lot, and has got about a thousand cords of the clear
timber stufflaid up straight by a line, and he goes out every
time h gets a spare minute, to'worship his 'wood-pile. So last
week he drove over in his lightwagorand hisnew bays, and
1o andehold I an old Goody Blake! gathering sticks from his
treasure.
" Halloo, rhy beauty!" says gallant Peter6 " what' in thunder
are yot aboutt"
"    'Yaw;  ien er't, rieplies'(Goodcy, stopping'to stare at him,
and resting her hands 'behind her back.

t
"I
1
it
i
i
{
{i
3r

EINES FRLUNDES ST7'MME.

201

" You put back every stick of that maple onto the pile where
you found it, or I'll have you- arrested, you thieving old sin-
ner."
"Yaw, mien herr," replies Goody,. composedly; and lifting her
fagot she threw it into: Peter's wagon, and jumped in: herself
and sat down on it with her back to the gentleman, and her
legs hanging out, and wiped her face on her apron,. and waited
his convenience for driving on, with a mien of stolid satisfac-
tion ; and there she sat, and persisted in sittmg, and sending
regular replies of Yaw, mien herr," .to all his expostulations
and abuse ; and so our good Peter was 'fain to drive her, and
her booty-to her own door ; where she jumped off, backed her
load, thanking hin with a final, Yaw, mien herr."
"Is that story true, Peter?" pouted Zoe, not liking her lover
to be the butt of anybody's fun but her own.
" Well, yes, it is true in the main; a little embroidered and
worked up by Jan."
"You did wisely, Peter," said Sabrina; "think how fright-
ful it would be, if, like young Harry Gill, your teeth should
chatter - chatter still."
"Oh, I didn't grudge the old lady a few sticks of my wood,
though I must say I think she might have picked up the chips
that lay about y the bushel, instead of pitching into my hand-
some maple:; but I felt as if it was rather crowding the mourn-
ers when she made me carry i home, and hep atop of it."
"Those are very pretty sleeye-buttons of yours, Jan," said
Chris, who-szw that th stpry rakle in Zoe's mind.
"I think so," he replig priig up lets. arm and exhibiting
a Brazilian beetle set. inFtruscan.. gold  they'ree first:ousins
Sonsie, to the fire-flies who huntd Iout the two Irishmen.
iMickieMiikie,' says Pat- .tis no use for, ut to-cover in, our

1   S
r     t  y  tr
AN,
rE  z
rI '  ,t'  I r1
A 1 ink:
il ty"! !


EINRS, FRE UNDES STIMME'

EITES FREUNDES~ STIMM E.

heads aneath the bedclothes; here's one of the kratures
searchin' for us wid a lantern.'
Though Sonsie laughed at the story and Jan's Dutch-Irish
brogue, he helped himself to plenty of occupation, because she
set at him to know all about lightning-bugs; what they were
made of, and how they did it; and the young gentleman soon
got out of his depth, and called Chris to his aid.
Sonsies enjoyed her sprightly way of picking up the subject;
explairfing that this is -one of the exceptions in the insect-world,
where the male usually absorbs all the beauty; for 'tis the fe-
male who goes glancing about like a pale-blue "star, 6n sum-
mer-nights, and her mate is heavy, brown, and dull. She would
ask no questions; Chris's eyes were so weary, and her good.
nature so evidently an effort ; and Bertha also, who knew every
change in her friend's mobile face and -her flexible voice, and
had grown used to watch her in the weary days, when she was
creeping slowly back from the Dark River into health, and
who loved her with a twofold love.
Bertha came and laid her hands upon the talker's shoulders,
and said it was time to go to rest. They'had to' wait for the
elevator to come down: the team was out, and the slow-nov-
ing monster creaked and grumbled as if tired out. And Chris
leaned absently against the foldingdoor which shuts off the
great breakfast-room from the' oface.haill. Three gentlemen
were at a table w4itri. They had'Ifihished their supper and
were talking. Though they were too far offfor Chris to catch,
the words, sorethingin theones stirred her agreeably-- two
dissiilar voices, both deep~adnih;°but in the-sub-tones of
the one who spoke most there was a certain glad ring:a sort
of eager, expectant vibration  which set her thoughts roving,
a cosyi quiet room   a  ticking cocak in' t corner - a
little mother, and a lovely child ; " and listen,- these three,

or four hummed notes - that tenor whistle ! Those sound so
familiar.
They rose and walked on together. As they passed the door,
Chris caught a few words. The voice was" different, and the
words were not much ; only an old Spanish proverb she had
heard a thousand times: "'Tis not the frock which makes the
friar."  Sonsie, whose arm was around her waist, felt the thrill
which passed over her darling's slender figure.  She saw her
raise her head like a startled deer, and noticed the paleness and
the shade together, "as if' lilies had been mixed with violets,"
which swept her cheek ; and she tightened her clasp, and whis-
pered some soft words, with her deepening eyes seeking the
depths of the great wistful brown ones, which prayed for help.
The talkers passed on through the:length of the long break-
fast-parlor; and out at the door, into the hall, and mounted
the wide staircase. And Chris lost the sound of their foot-falls
on the thick carpet; and our party ascended in the elevator to
their apartments, after agreeing upon the breakfast hour; and
Sonsie took Chris, who walked in a waking dream, to her room,
)and placed her in the great chair.
"I'll be back in a trice, Miss Chris," said she; "lay yer
pretty head back' and shut the poor tired eyes I love to see
bright, till nI'm here again.
She flew down the stairs to the office, and walked straight
up to the desk. She had time to count all the bls,: and spell
the names 'on the trunks standing in piles, ad exxire the
faces passing to and frd, before hebusy clerk waa estlto at-
tend her, and then, sheread all the recent entieseinhtte trave
lers' book, and started back.
Where's these to go, 'Mr. Brooks?" asked a porter
"Fourth floor, Tom,-No. So,  That jolly old party -ith a
beard like Methuselah, and the sick man next."

;f
X14      lily
Ind
I   "     t     {{i-
I'f
,1 1 A
oil
' 'E '  ftl l;'   't  5 .
111 So,
lit
11jt!E ?I ! r'
1   tEtl11
I!!1    ? f ail
off!! fl Fll{It  t i'


204            E     NS .FREUNDES-..STA{ME.
Sonsie listening, got, n  information, aid, returned to Chris,'
who looked expectantly in her eyes as she appeared.
"It was like .a visionwwasn't it, mraguorneen, but 'tis not
real, and -- smalliloss anyhow" (this to herself)--- please try
and forget it,. anal bring the sweetness back to yer marlin' face;
and com,.coushlI'll undress my lady, and then I'll gead her
something nice, till, se falls asleep."
Sonsie talked on, while she took care of her lady, who was
thankfl to let herself be attended, and cuddled, and who
folded herhands be eath her cheek, and shut her eyes, and the
girl took up an open. volume she -found .upon the table, and
read aloud, -
"Nay, none but children
cguld gate buter-cup and may-weed;
But violets!deadviolets, methinks'
I could live forever on a bank of violets,
Or diepmost happy there,"
She put the book hurriedly from her, and Chris hoped that
the half-gloom would hide the tears which would filter through
her closed lids.                           -
" It is very very late, good Sonsie," said she presently; "you
mpst get to bed.- I am going to sleep, so wish me pleasant
dreams.'
Sonsie took the hand reached out to her, and, dropped upon
her knees beside the bed;t ;' .
" I want to say.me prayers herp,:wid e white angel forninst
me, after I have read a f stf1l of good. wrds from ,the book
that has always some comfort for sic eoul   e drew Maq.
Ann's itt1 gift from her pocket , a dainty vplumein  lden
clasps ; and sought some of those dear inspirations, which are
full of pith and sweetness, "Ah here t is,mypurneen, said
she, "just as if. t were. a purpose f(oryopu  'Go thy way, eat
thy breadl wit joy, and drink thiy wine with a merry heart, for

SONSIE AND JAN SAY THEIR PRA YERS.

263

God accepteth thy works.' Isent that a good bit of reading ,
now?"
"Yes, Sonsie," answered Chris, quietly; 'but the summing up
of the subject is left out of your quotation. If it were all there,
you'd find the rest of it read, 'Vanity of vanities, saith the
preacher, all is vanity.' "
" Miss Chris," said Sonsie, much troubled, "is there not com-
fort in the Bible for all, and. help for all, and strength for
all?"
"Yes, indeed," answered Chris, very sorry for having spoken
out the desolation she felt. " Oh, yes, Sonsie, and it is only me
who am disturbed to-night, and not in a fit frame to receive the
precious consolations. I am going to try to be, though, before
I sleep ; therefore come now, and let us say our prayers to-
gether, before you go.
"Yes, mavourneen, those which we learned in our child-
hood."
"Far off childhood Isaid Chris, sorrowfully.
CHAPTER XXIII.
SONSIE AND JAN SAY TREIR PRAYERS.
HE next morning the party came strolling into the St.
James tea-room, by twos and threes, and were placed
by the bland waiter at the tables fronting the window'
of the middle saloon, so airy and light; and of course the all
read Wheeler &amp; Wilson's sign opposite to them, and all dis-
cussed sewing-machines, before they plunged into the plans of
the day.
23

+   ''
'!    3
,'
'E
,     ,;  r
i
.'
kt
fi
i
'
_
1
t
i(
;
i
'     '
, i
,   i
Ii
Ir
i'{,1
t?  i 5
e'i"       i
';4 ; ,
,,
;,, ,

s
! 'i s
s
f -  t
'i

i i'' ,
ij ,
1  ,
; ,
,,
,,,
, ;
; :
;
;  .
i1; F
, ,
s'' i

i
,,;,
,  ;
#  ;
'
,f.a
,
;
,
i    z;
,,
!'-i
i  f i
fi,   if
1
tft
;
1
; i
(l
;
!i f
'  1

t ,    lt ''t '
!       liifi
i;
i
I.'   l ,
alai. '"   ' 'j
iEf fM f '1


266   SONSZE AND JAN SAY THEIR PRA YERS.

"Why not go to Stewart's 'at once?" 'asked Sabrina, "where
they keep every thing."
Because," replied Mrs. Walsingham, "they'have such an
unpleasant, indifferent, supercilious set of attendants there. I
went, last year, to buy a large bill, while I was ordering Pus.
sey Ashcroft's trousseau (our little Texas friend, you know),
and I asked for the first thing on my list  a lace cape. Two
clerks were conversing together, and I spoke twice before they
even looked at me. Then one did turn, and stare up and down
my graytravelling-dress, and coolly inform me, "they had none
likely to suit me; none under fifty dollars!" and the fellow.
presented his shoulder and the two brass buttons !in his back,'
and'resumed the account of astreet brawl, which I had dar-
ingly' interrupted. Quite quenched, I retreated to the glove-
counter, andtook modestly a pair des gants, which I got tossed
down before me after a couple of entreaties, and I tried the
leather, and examined the number and maker's name."
"Don't stretch 'those gloves that way, ma'am,if your please !''
expostulated the clerk, in a tone of the deepest injury.
"Absolutely extinguished, I dropped the hand-shoes and with.
drew, thankful to get off with my head on my shoulders, and I'
cut loose from Stewart's forever; and I know that mine is not
a solitary case. Yes! I know it quite well. A lady who goes
in that store in a plain dress has no chance at all, unless she
is willing to be  snubbedandi takes joyfully contemptuous
looks and supercilious. service, which I'm  quite' willing to
admit! do.' not.  If I am about to spend' money, I like to
leave 'it with agreeable, cheerful. people, 'who' are 'not too fine
to attend to their duties, and who will, not glower at my clothes,
and toss their goods about as if the sight of me was hateful, and
my gunple inquiries a personal affront;",

 Ah!" said Jan, reaching over to pat his mother's little .ew.
elled hand, -"ah !L" there speaks the country importance.
Our ladies of position, who are accuston'ed to have their say
and their way at home, would not make very complaisant atoms
of a city mass."
"That's where your head is level," replied Peter- " Therets
Zoe I It's all my farm is worth to walk the streets withher.
She sputters and scolds, at me, if people jostle her, just as
if nobody had a right to push along, when      she chooses to
loiter. I expect every day I'll have to call out some= fellow
who has stuck his foot through her skirt.  I assure you, :I-wilt
like a plucked lettuce under her blaze of:indignation, if I=but
happen --
"Well, I don't care a bit," 'pouted Zoe.     "It is so gro
tesquely ridiculous to be jerked backward, when one is sailing
along with satisfied face. .'Job's wife .couldn't.bear it, and look
good-tempered1"
Chris was arrived.; and John Peebles, who had been walking
up and down the' office,-with a book inhis fingers, inspecting
each cargo of humanity dumped by the industrious elevator,
joined her at the door, hoping  for a nice chat- ;ibut she-was
too perturbed in spirit tolafford him any satisfaction, and she
scanned drearily the faces of the corners and goers, api4:the.
words of a song she had paused to hear, by thehalf-open door
of the great-drawing room, lingered 'in' her ears.  She. could not
see the singer, but the tones were rich and true
" here wandered alrdy upon tie jtiand,
Her fair hair bound with a golden bad;.
Sing~ hey, sing "ho, for that land of flowers:
.      .  .           '
Hail to thee ! hai-tothee lady ilt,
Mine own shalt thou be e'er morning light:
Sing hey, sing ho, for that land of flowers."

i
{             +       rb
i
fH              i
'      I'If   I          1       "1
f       t
G         II  I

Ti

f    t
'   i    -
i   f
it
i
.f j
,
' -9

, F
#r{  ^
i  I
f!     r
-        i f, },
j! }
i
_:                                               r
, ;       F
i
t  #      ,
-                           1     J

1         J
i
,
f                      F
i
}   f     S
1

SONSIE AND ,74N .S4 Y THEIR PRAYERS.

i
I  f
', i ' _
(


SONSIE AND 74N SAY THER PRAYERS.

When John Peebles asked her why she did not eat the pigeon
he ordered for' her breakfast, she roused with some effort from
her reverie and answered him,
"But low was he laid in a grassy grave t"
and the mystified young scholar stared with " eyes glaring
wildly," like Sintram's, while the vibrations of the harp-strings
still resounded.
Sabrina, whose breakfasts were always of the simplest, came
around, wrapped in her fleecy violet shawl, and placed her
little flower-vase at Chris's elbow.,
"I picked them out of Zoe's breakfast-posey. She- doesn't
care at all for heliotropes ; and do you know, dearest, the lady.
kin declares she'll buy an evening dress the color of that cactus.
blossom at her throat. I may not gainsay her, for Zoe would
scarcely be Zoe without a trail of scarlet upon her hair, or a
vivid robe, like the pomegranate which the flower-fairy trans.
formed into a woman. Will you come to Vanity Fair, sweet,
and help us buy pretties in the great bazaars?"
'" I think -not," Chris hesitatingly replied. "I have promised
to stay within doors this morning, and' at two o'clock I am
to explore, the dens of the lions, with Mr. Peebles as Daniel,
to carry the green umbrella, you know."
As Sabrina did not know that Dr. Max was to come to the
St. James at eleven, she could not understand the flickering
blood in her friends .cheek, nor the unrestful, expectant mood
which glimmered all over her.
Jan had got hold of Sonsie Eagan hours ago. They' were
both early risers, and he came across her, in hat and mantle,
walking swiftly through the upper hall.
"Whither away so fast, Sonsie?"
" I'm going to church, sir," she answered, striding on.

I1
R
r,,1
iIR
Rlii'

 "Let me go too. I want to pray a little."
It seemed, though, that he wished more to arrange his day
to suit his plans than to offer many, petitions.  He hoped
to get Sonsie's company in the park, or at Greenwood, or
some other quiet place; but the young girl had views of her
own, and his wishes went for nothing. But after amonent's
thought she opened wide her Irish eyes, and said impul-
sively,
" I wish you'd throw away these notions, sir, and come alng
with me. 1'll take you where you'll get good."
"Very well, Sonsie. You know I am willing to follow your
leading -in that direction, I mean ; and I'l promise to, trot
by your side all day, like your faithful frisky Flirt, or, Rainbow,
the Egyptian, if you will engage me your evening,. and we'll go
down to Wallack's and see a play, with the glorious Lester
himself for 'hero.' "
"And is it a the-a-tre, sir.?"
" Yes, Sonsie, a choice good one, Splendid acting, gorgeous
dresses, perfect scenery, and real standard plays. I know for
sure that you will like it, and I appetite beforehand the pleas-
ure I shall enjoy in watching you. I hate to takestiff, wooden
girls, who can't cry or laugh ; but you, Sonsie ! I'm certain you
will enter into the counterfeited semblance and count it real."
" But, whisper, Mr. Vedder -could ye take me to see an
Irish play, somewheres ?"
" Oh yes," replied Jan readily, "there's Arrah na Pogue on at
the Olympic. We'll go there. I declare, Sonsie, I wish every-
body knew what they want and why they want it as thoroughly
as you do. You are such a relief, positively a refreshment,
after the namby-pamby things, who think they admire -yes,
they're almost sure they do -but don't know either -perhaps
really -becalmed, befogged in uncertainty. You. Milesians

269

It
l
4 "!
i
'  I
!  t

2Q8

SOIVSIE AND YAN SAY THEIR PRAYERS.

f .
, jFt
,  ,
'
'  ~i
'         i
,.  ;,

il !  )   i .i
,  ' '  ;
' ;
;;
ii i;
'l  !i ; f 'r;
,
{   i'  ;t  ;.
,  t
I'ii' {"{   '  '}t
I i i         f
iii    i4 '  '   ,
' ,
i    i   ,it
) i 1
i
,ji, ,{  d
'      ,   ,      ,
,,
1°
.   "li i' i ,
i i          ,
t  i      ', i ',i  I  f
~ !Ii  311      'I'.


270    SONSIE AND JAN SAY T   IER PRAYERS.
get twice the odor and flavor out of life that the cold, thin.
blooded: Yankees do.  I think your life-current flows faster
 thro gh your Veins. There ! look, now,- at that pretty purple
wanderer ; it seems I see it dancing along that thread at your
wrist, Sonsie."
yon,' indeed, sir? replied Sonsie, smiling brightly, but
witherhead up, and=a hasty thrust of her two hands behind
her. "Sure there's no call - for you to be trying me pulse,
- tiend please :keep yourifingers to home. I've;no .fever.; an'
had, you're notthe docther."
Het round, firm arms were a temptation to Jan, clear and
blush-tinted like a young rose-leaf; but he did not touch them,
though he quietly brought them back again, and stood fear-
less and modest right .beforehim, looking in his face with one
of het merry sonrisa, which : sent dimples rippling all round
her red lips, and danced in her blue eye's mischief. .
"It was the most praiseworthy thing you ever did, to be an
Irish lassie, Sonsie," said he, enjoyingly. :There is no people
on the face of =the. globe who have so' many agreeable traits.
In fact, they are inexhaustible -- ever fresh and ever new."
"Ah! Mr.: Vedder, 'sir, you are a jewel to say that. The
praises of me people in yer mouth is sweeter than the song of
the wood-quest," said Sonsie.  "I hope ye speak yer true
thoughts"
"Indeed I do. Ireland is the land of the bards. The
national airs are full of poesy and religion. They are the
echoes of a soul soft and plaintivei Their love-songs are redo-
lent of the truth and fervor of the women, and the bravery and
light-hearted, frolicsome -temperament of the men; and their
power of Madoring is tnequalled!"n
"Where did you read them purty words, sir ?"

SONSIE AND JAN SAY THEIR PRA YEARS.

" How do you know I read them anywhere ; cunning Ollam
Folda ?"
Sure, sir, can't I tell by the light tripping of the words when
ye's reciting out of a book, from when yeri talking yer own non-
sense out of yer head?"
"Well!' said Jan, tossing on his soft hat, "we'll se  
na Pogue to-night, and I. shall hear the saucy things yi a
that will be my pleasure."  ''                       '
" Thank you, Mr. Vedder," Sonsie replied, smiling. "I'm glad
you think so well of me pert ways, because a 'cauld word is
as bad as a stab to an Irish heart ;' -and when ye've come until
the theatre, I'll be sure to be - livened. up wid the life of it,
but I'll begin me day wid a handful of prayers. Look, Mr. Jan !"
-Sonsie paused before the pretty church by the St. James;
"look, sir, 'tis a fine quiet place ; let us say our prayers* here
together : our dear Christ is the same ; the Irish and .the Dutch
can kneel side by side before yon altar and seek the like bless-
ing. Whisper, sir,". she added. Jan looked at her eyes, deep-
ening into violet. "I think this might be the place where
the little crossing-sweeper found her mother. - See t
"Tis the wide-open doors of a church,
And she softly crept into the deep sheltered porch ;
and oh, Mr. Vedder ! it makes my heart beat. . There now:!
"She heard the solemn organ, and the voices of the choir."
Mark ! how sweet that music sounds ! When I came in hither
by mesel in the gloaming yestereen,, I was creeping all ,over
and chilly. I seemed to see the poor child lying down there in
yon corner. Ah, let us hasten, sir ; my heart aches wid her.
sorrow !"
They walked a couple of miles, and looked into a score or
so of shop-windows, and were very merry, when they came into
the tea-room and jined their party.

. - I   r,
l
1  r       3
f 1,
c3     f
r      S        ,
E, #       '.
3
. i
i  .'       ;

.,
,   ;
1
I  j            1:/
f{i
i}        F[
ltf             S,.
J
,,
t     F
t;
I'
1
,j
, i       l
'              '
,;
~           (      ..
'   3       i
f
'}i
I       ;
'n,         1
.         i      ,

I'  '1


272

ItI
I'
~it
14 ' A
I
i{
1 1f
7 If

CHAPTER XXIV.
CHRIS'S DAY AMONG THE LIONS.
ND so they all went out, and left our Chris dreaming
over the voice and the song; and she sat down to the
piano in the great drawing-room and played out her
dream, and the strain rose insensibly into the melody .she had
heard, and the words thrilled through her lips with the keen en-
joyment one has in recalling pleasant hai-monies, and she
sang, -
" Sing-bey ! sing ho, for that land of flowers,"
running down onto C sharp, and smiled to herself at the faith-
ful copy she was rendering .of the unknown basso; and 2o!
she heard a brisk clapping of hands, and "Bravo ! bravissimo !
Mees Goldschmidt," and rose hastily to find Dr. Max at her
elbow.
" You also sing of Sintram's songs, and you also ' seek the
bowers where the roses blow.'"
" Oh, Dr. Max ! you were the singer then, to whom I listened
this morning; I should rtot have feared to come in here, if I
had known that."_
Yes, Fraulein Creestabel, I was too impatient; I arrived
too early to find you, and now I must hasten, indeed I can
scarcely stop to sit: I hope you will come out with me immed-
iately; I have some commission on my hands -a bequest to
dispose of, and I beg your assistance and coperation."
.Dr. Max paused at Ball &amp; Black's, and said, " Let us
enter here, Mees Goldschmidt, and look at the jewels."
He walked down to a side-counter, and asked a question of
the clerk, who brought out a box which he aid open upon the

CHRIS'S DA Y AMONG THE LIONS.

desk, -a bracelet of twelve sapphires, in massive setting of old
yellow gold,. hinged upon diamonds. The Doctor examined
them critically within, and frowned, bringing his 'yellow eye.
brows together over his leonine eyes, which always clouded like
the smoke topaz, when he was angry, or fired by emotion.
" You have failed to obey my directions," said he ; " lordeed
German text, and you have put it in Old English!"
" You.told me Old English," replied the clerk, crossly ; " tisn't
my fault if you don't know your own mind two days together.
I did it exactly to your order, which I took down on a piece
of paper and gave to the engraver 1"
"You mistake, friend," said Max, "or you mis-state: produce
your bit of paper to your confusion."
"I can't hunt it up now. I know it is right, and youmay
take it or leave it:- those are the proper letters for it, anyhow."
"Have the goodness to mind your own business, and leave
offering opinions upon my affairs till you're asked. Show me
some plain gold rings."  He turned and walked back to Chris,
who was watching him with the fascination her association of
ideas gave him in her mind, and with Sintram's song floating
about her, - Sintram the yellow-haired, composed and:stately.
" Could das fraulein lend me ihr klein finger as a'sample. I
must make a purchase," said he, reaching after what he; de-
sired, with:business air. She extended her hand readily, in its
rosy-gray glove, and he fitted it with a.slender circlet of ena-
mel and gold, which he .pronounced "vara goot," and put
away into his' vest pocket, "after paying the glowering elerk.
" Now Mees Goldschmidt, I know you are an erthusiast for
art. I remember quite well that I found you and Herk Green-
veldt adoring a saint in his studio, a  cause yoti wore a
much-daubed apron; I 'kno* yo   a     yourself the pic-

;   ,1 ,
,;";  :
:'.
t,   :
'
!
i; t

CHRIS'S DA Y AMONG THE LIONS.

I! I  I   F
t
c
'  I  t
tp     4
1.
' 1

f    (          "
.f          f
I,
1


tIL;  !
1 tt i, S'
;ti.  fJL't
ld ,
JR
S11$:
!1'j
R 4 I{fj' I
IA'l
1i  L
I~

CHRIS'S DA Y AMONG' THE LIONS.

2't4 CHRIS'S DA Y AMONG THE LIONS.
tures. What if we were to go and look at some Flemish ones
Goupil has to show."
They passed a blind man on the pave grinding the most do-
lorous of organs, and Dr.! Ma" dropped a bill into his hat, and
he excused his charitable impulse, and ridiculed it by reciting
Canning's "«Knife-Grinder," and then they were within the gas-
lighted room alone together. After a purvey of the white stout-
footed roadsters and the rough cart-horses and the sorrel colt,.
and a- certain amount- of talk upon .the picture and the odd
life the painter had elected to herself, they sat down on a
bench, and Dr. Max took out the casket and laid it open on his
knee.
"There is a.story to that jewel,. Mees Goldschmidt," said he,
pointing his finger at it. "I'd like to tell it you. You see the
setting is varc. old ; and the sapphires are the. color. of the sky
when the, moon is-full. My. father, whom I -never saw" (a
shadow and .a kindling light flitted through his. smoke-topaz
eyes),-"it' may be that it will be -for me to. speak openly to
you of that some day.- My father gave them-to my mother ; he
brought them from beyond ,the seas ; there were'ear-rings and
brooch to match ; those my mother commissioned me to give
t my friend Otho, with her love. He was like a son to her ; so
dear, that I got jealous sometimes.. She said' they were for his
wife, and I put them into his hand just before we reached Rosen-
bloom that Christmas time, when I was so blessed as to dance
with Mees Goldschmidt at the great party... I remember quite
well how he looked when he took. them, - prouder than I ever
saw, him, exulting, arrogant almost. He seized them, like a
lawful 'spoil of his bow and spear, and hid there away in his
breast. I remember also wondering if he was in love. Close
friends' as we are, though, I dared not ask the question. I
found afterwards that Otho the Doctor was wedded to his dry

275

bones, therefore let him alone. He's a glorious old fellow'; but
somehow he fails to see the beauty of God's fairest work, so I
suppose my mother's gems must rest, shorn of their beams, in
dull darkness."
Chris stooped to pick up the tin view-horn which had rolled
off her lap, and she steadied her face and resumed' her listening
attitude, with her eyes upon the carpet, and her small teeth
compressing her bloodless lips.
" My mother " (he spoke very lovingly the words ; she noticed
that, even through her agitation),-"my mother bestowed this
upon me also then. 'Take'it, Max,' said she. "I was a happy girl
when I first put it on, and I should like you to give it to a
good, true, pure maiden, and tell her your mother bid you do
it.' 'I believe prayers are answered, 'and I have prayed that the
good God will point out the -right one. I am sure it will fit
your wrist; so sure, and so hopeful 'that you will permit me to
carry out my mother's wishes, that I have ventured to have your
name engraved beneath hers."'
Chris suffered him- to lift the hand, which he touched cour-
teously, and fasten the clasp upon her arm, hardly knowing
what- she did. The mention of Otho, his possession of the
match jewels, which- were for his wife, her happiness, her
misery,,her conflict, and her loveless future, overwhelnedher,
and .she sank= back pale, breathless. Dr. Max again read her
emotions to suit himself, and read them wrong.
"Now, Mees' Goldschmidt, let me finish my story."  He
smiled; and with his eyes dropped upon the enpty Casket, of
which he kept playing the lock with Iusy fingers, "My mother
bid me also marry my love if I could get he to wear the brace-
let. I'm sure youi like obedient boys, dq you not  I wish
with all my heart to obey n y' good mother. Wnit you, have
the little ring P it precisely fits your finger, you know. "

;i
' ,i
,;,, E
R  -1 i
,r ,.
.i, f
' -
,  .,
,
I
,If   i
r ; , I ,
, ,ii
,  I
Ili r
.'', i
'' , . j .
;;   ,
;,:
ill    .I
'ifi    1.
I, i' 1
iiRit;'i.  f
+    ;
:i ll ; I   a,
,
"       ,  I  i
i i i;,       '
i f   :    ,

1: ;  i
.  '   ;
f  {  r
.f
'   _
E
L
l    j
t
}    ;'
t
"         ,
'    e
1


CHRIS'S DAY AMONG THE LIONS.

rti
1ST
t ilv;  E'
N
log,
fii

- He was deeply earnest, beneath his whimsical wooing, and
his heart throbbed with strong love-power; but Chris did
not see it; did not think about him, There was no room in
her soul for a new love.
"Take off the bracelet, Dr. Max," said she, passionately push-
ing it with her slender fingers; "it hurts me ! I cannot wear it
indeed ! I was dreaming while you put it on; do not speak
to me of love. You cannot know how impossible it is for me
to care for you1"
Dr. Max studied eagerly her tumultuous eyes with their swift
thoughts, and noted the startled wild-deer glance, seeking
escape; and his face saddened a little.
" Ah, it is too sudden ! You think me presumptuous ;
you consider me a stranger. I had forgotten you did not
know how long your -image ,has been mine. I could tell
you every word you uttered .that evening ; I can recall, every
light, airy, graceful motion, every smile on your swiftly-
changing face : but you did not know that; I was but the ac.-
quaintatce of an evening. Mees Goldschmidt, let me wait
a little; only wear my mother's bracelet, and let me hope."
He kissed the ring, and returned it to his pocket. "I shall
not forget whose little finger you have clasped," said he.
" Dr. Max," began Chris, " I haven't any love to give you ;
I cannot wear this ! I am not the maiden your mother bade
you seek ! Oh, no. .I am very unhappy  Why couldn't you
be my friend ?" she added, half angrily. "I want good, hon-
est friends so much: I don't want lovers ! I've got my life
marked out ; I've given my soul to art, and music, and charity.
I could have enjoyed your friendship so much ; but love
you ! marry you ! Oh, no l Never!.
Determined not to break down, and give the tears way,

CIjRIS'S DA Y AMONG THE LIONS.            277
which were brimming her eyes, she continued with a half
smile.
"'Nay, seek another bride, I pray :
Most fair are the maidens of Naples Bay.'
'Tis your own song, you lsnow, Dr. Max. I see that you think
me trifling, and wanting in heart. I am noti only it is of no
use, sir: please forget that you ever uttered the words, and be
my friend. Cannot true women have true men for friends,
without marrying them ? "
She held out her hand,.and looked in his face with searching,
wistful eyes.
"Yes, truly I believe so, indeed, Mees Goldschmidt. I see I was
mistaken: I see.it so plainly, that I will not pain you any
more," he replied sorrowfully; " but you are, after all, the 'good
pure maiden,' and you ,shall not refuse to wear my mother's
gift; that would hurt me too much : and let me believe that
you sometimes think about the clumsy fellow .who did not
know how to woo you."
He kissed the hand he held, and they passed out into the
street together. lie left her in the great drawing-room of the
St. James, with parting words so kind, and tender, and hearty,
that when he walked away, Chris felt that- she had cut loose
from a friendly soul, who might have sheltered hers -- and was
drifting alone.. Peebles found her on the sofa, with clasped.
hands, and, suffering, colorless face, when he came to take her
into the dens of tlie lions. . She scarcelyaknew where she was
when she entered Besoixm street, and saw on a great white sign
board the name, in black letters, of the firm she sought.;
"Slightem &amp; Slash."  She got her ideas together, and grasped
firmly her little roll of manuscript.
"You stop out here, good, Mr. Peebles, please," said she,
wetting her lips nervously. " I'd rather face my fate without
24/

t   :
.° .
-
,
{
E
.
;
' ,t.
_  .i
'
I
.   !
,
1

i
r i

'i
i
till
I( ;' ire
;,
if  I  In


278       CHRIS'S DAY AMONG THE LIONS.-
witnesses;" and leaving her escort in the outer room, she
pushed open the green-baize door, to which the clerk with a
pen behind each ear marshalled her; and she stood in the
presence of the great Mr. Slightem, and extended her hand and
her letter.
"Oh! " he exclaimed, running his eyes down the page, and
then over his visitor. " Good day, miss. I am very busy, but
I shall try to give you a few moments."  He motioned Chris
to an old horse-hair chair, which had seen better days, and sat
down in front of her, -asif she was a dreadful bore,-and
shuffled his papers, and his eyes said plainly that he wished
she would take herself off.
" I regret to interrupt you, sir ; but I don't see how I can
well help it, and I will be as brief as I can. I wish to con-
sult you about bringing out my book, or rather, to get some
information as to how authors go to work to publish."
"A novel'?"      -
"Yes, sir."
"We don't publish any novels, miss; we only take transla-
latiois from the German, and scientific works ; and we have
such a surfeit of those, that we"keep circulars of refusal ready,
to fill out for applicants."'
"Perhaps you will be kind enough to reconinend me to
some other publisher, who does publish novels."
" I could name some to you, but I couldn't request them to
publish your book; and if I did,; they'd ask me if I saw any
thing green in them. Mr. Slighten applied a finger to his eye,
with a gesture rude boys are fond of using. If you will
take my advice, you will put- up your manuscript, and go
home: not one in a hundred of the books published ever
pay.
"I know a good many must pay, sir; because we arev a na

CHRIS'S. PA Y AMONG :THE LIONS.

279

' tion of readers, and new books are all the time being issued ;
and, if it were a. losing business, publishers would soon aban-
don it."
Mr. Slightem laughed sardonically.
" You think your book will be the exception to the rule, of
course. They all think that."
"I do believe it will sell, sir," replied Chris, firmly.' "I have
had it carefully read by good critics, just such as read other
books, and their judgment is so favorable that I am determined
to get it out."
Another laugh.
" Partial friends ! of course they praise. It is really odd
how anxious everybody is :to get a little fame."
" I think I can command spme good fair notices from the.
Press."                     -
"That does not make any difference."
"I have some friends, who will help to push the book."
" That won't amount to any thing."
" Pray, sir, what does sell books ?" asked Chris, flashing
up.
" I don't know -- they sell themselves.; but this is certain"-
nearly all publishers have determined not to* take up any new
authors."
"How are new authors to get introduced to the public, Mr.
Slightem ?"
"I can't tell, I'm sure. One thing is certain, -booksellers
have got to live."
"Will you read my story ?"
" I'd as soon take a dose of medicine as read a novel ! not
myself, of course. If you still insist, I'll have it read. If I
should peruse all the manuscripts which are thrust upon me,
I should not have time to eat my dinner. If you had come

{   d
t  1{)[%F  LY
"       :  t
i        1  (ffj.
-,
_
i     L
f         t
7     a'
{      :
i
i           "
,         [
i
1
F               -
}       ,
i
f
."
,
4 }
,         -
,   ,
i
t
,  ,
,  '-   ,

i;j '
irr  r
,  r
li;fl{}
,rl;; '
li lrj
k,
(


iIty
i't'a t
1Ii I
plv
~in '{

CHRIS'S DA Y AMONG THE ,LIONS.

unrecommended, I would not have bothered with you ; but to
oblige my old friend Noble, I'll have your manuscript examined;
but I can't give you the least encouragement."
"Very well, sir," said Chris, rising; "I'll not keep you any
'longer, from your dinner, nor will I trouble you with my story.
Perhaps I ought to say, I thank you for your politeness."
She:walked away too angry to be disheartened. Mr. Slight-
em took up his work before her back was turned, and left her
to find-her way out by herself.
"We must look further, good Daniel; so shoulder your faith-
ful green umbrella, and lead the way. He glowers and sighs,
and I can guess the cause, but who's obliged to spell his
'hums and haws ?'" said she, as she turned the corner of
Besom Street.
When they entered the store of Mr. G. Hazel Fortune, on
Broadway, she was rather red-,in the face; a trifle tremulous in
the pulse, but prepared for any disagreeable line of conduct the
Hazel Fortunes might display towards her, in her defenceless
character of "new- author."
The young proprietor was talking with a customer, but
turned instantly when his clerk approached him, and saidain a
low, respectful voice, "A lady to speak. with you, sir; "and ad-
vanced with a friendly smile on his clear-cut sagacious face,
and invited her to be seated on his own sofa, and, sat down
himself beside her, as if he had thousands of years at his com-
mand, and she was welcome to any. number of them. He
heard all she had to say, and helped her out with pertinent
suggestions and remarks, showed her some contracts, and ex-
plained the modus o erandi clearly and fully, and looked at
her through his, glasses while he talked, turning over the manu-
script in his slender white hands, and smiling at her eagerness;
and even though she was intent upon her business, she observed

that his eyes were large, and clear, and hazel, and that his
mouth was pleasant and cordial,. his mustache silky brown,
and his clothes handsome, and easy-fitting.
"It is your first book, I perceive," said he; " I hope truly that
you will be successful.. I will certainly do all in my power for
you: the "manuscript shall be read and pronounced upon in a
day or two. I sometimes dabble in ink a little myself aadI
understand your fondness for your dream pet."
Mr. Fortune rose when Chris rose, and walkedeb yhe
side to the door, talking easily; and the last she saw of his
'     agreeable face was a friendly smile, as she returned his parting
bow; and leaving his presence, she felt a glow of gratitude
for the manner in which he had conducted the interview, his
absolute politeness, his appearance of attentive interest, and the
ultimate success of her project became for the time &amp; secondary
consideration.
Suffice it to say, that Mr. Hazel Fortune did all he promised,
and more; and C aris was made happy by a letter from him be-
fore the close ofthe third day, saying that her manuscript was
accepted; and it was brought out in due time by "the Royal
George" (as Chrs always called him afterward),'in splendid
style-; real illustrations, not sketches of a woman in flounces-
all coarse hard lines, nor two men and a table, nor a chair and
a grand piano, which might do duty for an almanac or a fashion-
book with equal facility, but real pictures I-which meant some=
thing, and enriched and beautified the story ; and such letter-
press; on such tinted paper, ah l the very sight and touch of it
were positive pleasures.
24*

CHRIS'S DA Y AMONG THE LIONS.

S1

28F

,
Y'
1
t
"      ,,
S       S
i
4'
6

Il (  1   iti
F1k11.       t, .  s


4

E82

l~L
Nil,
l.

CHAPTER XXV.
SONSIE''S DAY, AND A LETTER FROM, CAPTAIN SLOCUM.
AN 'and she took a stage to' the old Museum, and then
they walked through street after street, .narrow and
narrower, till, they cane to an alley, so choked with
old tottering houses, old iron, old rags, old bones, old withered
women, and old, skinny, half-naked children, that Jan~ stood
still.
"Sonsie, you shall go no further into this horrible den," said
he.
She laughed.'
"Ah! whist, Mr. Vedder, take it aisy --I used to live here
in this very house ; and, by the same" token, this is the very old
rickety staircase that Denny and me pattered up o'nights after
me: sweeping the dirty crosses the livelong day. It bore us
poor weary children those times, and as it did not tumble down
yet (small loss though if it did), I suppose 'twill bear the pair
of us this day.'. Coom now, Mr. Vedder, and let a gentleman
see the first home the EEagans found in America."
The way was' so dark as they ;mounted that she seized his
hand and led him on through narrow, dirty passages, reeking
with vile smells, slippery with' filth.
"-I usen't to .have my place like this one; I scrubbed and
cleaned, and me poor mother, she had a laugh those days like
the merry tinkle of a water-brook. We'd just coomed then, and
the joy and hope were not starved out of her ; but 'tis thrue
for you, sir -- we niver. think so much of God's sunshine as in
the moonless night-storms, and I didn't know ,the vally of me

SONS' DA1.-

288

mother's smile till'twas quenched in tears ; and it came all too
soon too; for me father could find no work, and he was a
handsome, easy man, and the labor was hard on his careless
heart anyhow, and we are all too proud to beg ; and they two
died every day .t see the children peakin' and starvin'.  I
was ,a wee girleen,' and Dennie only a clip of a boy,. but we -re-
member all those times; and often prate over them together.
Dennie's a good lad, Mr. Vedder. Ah, wisha ! but these steps
is the treacherous villains. I wonder who is in the old place
now!
She-knocked smartly with her firm fist on the farthest door,
and a woman opened it a couple of inches and =stuck one eye.
out. It wasn't much of herself she let be seen; but what did
show looked so sly and wicked, and she was' so unwilling to
let them in, answering their questions in a fat, wheezy growl,
that Jan tried to pull Sonsie away, but she persisted.
"I used to live here, good wife," said she ; "and I'll just look
in for the sake of the old times."  She set her 'firm-shoulder
against' the door, and, with a quick push, she shoved off the
guardian angel and entered the -room.
The wretched child the woman held was hollow-eyed, and
half-asleep ; two others lay in an old wooden cradle with their
eyes shut ; still another in the corner on the- bare floor; a fifth
was tied by the hands to an iron bar, which stretched across,
between the tottering walls, and a raw-hide lay on the floor
suggestively near him. The woman was greasy and flabby,; and
there was bread and meat in the cupboard, and a whiskey-jug
on the- shelf, and bits of cheese scattered on the rickety table;
but starvation was written all over the skeletons who. opened
human eyes and stared at them. And a feeble cry in the corner
caught Sonsie's attention. She thought at first it was a. cat, but
a stir among the rubbish impelled her to hurry and lift a rag

SONSE S DAY.

1   ''    ,  ; !'i
i;     "
' ' i+           ,
.i   'i!   t,,    t,
f  ; s,,, ' ~
f  i .}   F!I?
'; t   ';;t  h  l
ii , ,,ii  fitr
11   'I  .,  i;
41EI i,   ,

1 fp
i.  
,
i , :
i
i
, '       ,
E
F
-
.
t
(
t t

t        f,    {
1
'       i


SONSIE7S DA.
from the heap, and a little mite of a purple baby!. A da old,
hydd'y-                                -d'
perhaps, and only life enough in its tiny heart to suffer.
" Augh ! but this is the divel's den in me old place," said
Sonsie, whose eyes grew deep, and whose face blanched to clear
marble. "Mr. Jan!" she began in a high key. Jan turned sud.
dentureddud
deny and gave her a look; she stopped instantly. There had
been such unwillingness in the female to permit any looking
about, that his curiosity was roused and he put his head through
an inner door. It was a terrible sight I a. dead woman lay on
dirty bed, and a poor crippled boy crouched in a heap as far
off as he could get, but gazing with scared eyes upon the still
figure, so full of terror for his childish breast; and so wretched,
scared, and hopeless was he in his filth and rags, that Jan turned
sick at the sight of him; and the shrinking terror he showed at
the opening of the door was painfully hinting,' and Jan read a
life in it which filled .lim with indignation.
You have a large family," said he, turning quietly to the
woman, who stealthily 'watched him.
Yes, sir, a large one indeed, sir," she whined. "I'm in great
trouble! my poor children here are down with the fever, and
the little-dear, in yonder, I took in off the streets last night, and
she died on me not an hour ago; and I've nobody to fetch any
help, and I don't know what I'm to do, I'm sure. I'm as poor
as a cat, and any little help you can give me, I'd bless you for."
"You drop your babies about rather promiscuously, don't
you?" asked Jan, pointing to the mite Sonsie had picked up
and was holding in her arms, while she faced the woman with
eyes and manner full of fire and passion --no trace of fear any.
where. Jan did not wait to make up his mind; he felt sure they
had got within one of the dens where helpless children are left
to be slowly got rid of. -And he looked at Sonsie and decided
upon his course of action at once. The woman also scanned

SONSIE'S DA 1'.

280

her fresh face and full figure, rubbing her cheek with the cor-
ner of her apron, and there was murder in her hateful eyes--
the death that cometh up out of the pit.
I'll see that you are cared for," said he. " Come, Sonsie;
you've looked over the place and its inhabitants ; let us go!"
"Ill take this poor bit along with me, sir, I think."
Before he had time to answer, the cripple had crawled to his
feet, braving the woman, who glared and shook her fist at him,
and reached stealthily behind her for a whip on the wall.
"Do not' leave us, good gentleman! do- not ; she kills us all
the time. Oh! open the door and take us out with you; she's
not our mother ; we are not brothers and sisters. Oh, pity us,
we have suffered so much : look at my face - these scars, these
blows."
" Get out, you ungrateful wretch ! shut your mouth ; do
you know what that is ?"
The child glanced at the whip with despair' in his eyes.
"I can no more than die ; and if you refuse to help me, and
yon girl with the brave face. Ah, you can be sorry; for your
eyes weep. Don't let her strike - oh 1"
It was too late ; for a heavy blow from the -raw-hide felled
him to the ground, and Jan flew upon the greasy wretch and
twisted the weapon from her hand.
" Are you afraid, Sonsie?" asked 'he.
"No, sir ; there's been beating' and starving enough here: I'll
not leave the place till we carry these poor babes along with
us!"
Jan threw up the window and shouted "police," and Sonsie
set her back against the door, through which the woman tried to
escape.
"Bide where ye are, till ye get lave!" said 'she, looking her
in the eye. "'I'm rnot afraid of yer fist, no, nor your broom

}              t
'      7     3
4      }  4  .
Iii
k

-,        i
i'
-  i
i.
i'
'
.
! ,_
f
i'      }
f      l
I         { .
'
l
I     _
i
I
{        li
'       Ji  J
!
i1        i
(
'          1
r '       t
i

I'  i
'  i'  '
lir'      ,''"1 '
+Ia'   t }Y
' 1'  ',,  tip'
11      i1,  (
. ,.
;
};  ' a  ' i'i   i
'i ,   y~ ,
;{  1   s
[   '  ' +j1111F 1


SOVSIE'S DA Y.

SONSIE'S DA Y.

neither," seeing her looking around for an instrument of offence,
" Yer time is up ! .there they come; the stairs are full of then.'
She had no friends even among the poor and wicked ,about
her, and the mob rushed on, and directly a couple of blue-coats
were hustled into the scene ; and, as Sonsie said, her time was
up.
The cripple's story was clear. He had been there ever and
ever so long ; the others came after him.; they were drugged and
starved and beaten, She often told them they'd got to die, and
Jan and the blue-coats had hard work to keep the, moboff the
wretch, who cursed, and gnawed her hands in her impotent futry;
and they dragged. her howling away, and Jan and Sonsie brought'
the seven children in a carriage to Mr. Van Meter, in the
New Bowery, and they told the. story, and waited till they saw
them bathed and dressed and made comfortable ; and Sonsie
said many sweet words to the little cripple (who kissed her
hands and her {garments) ,:and promised to come on the morrow
and see him; and she went to: the good matron,-and. begged her
to-take, care of the " party babby," and Jan slipped a cheque
for five hundred dollars into the hand of the hard-working
issionary; andAfter hearing the ",friendless " sing, they hated
away::
"'Where shall we go now, Sonsie," asked Jan, when they had
emerged upon Broadwaygand paused for a: good breath.
" Let us go h9me, sire- I want to think a bit."
She hardly spoke to him-all the way, though she fixed her
eyes upon him often, and when they reached the St. James she
followedjiim silently anto the great drawing-room; .then she
tookthis hand and kissed it.,
"4Oh, how good it is to see you those times ! The manhood
sits so-grand. and beautiful in your two eyes !" And breaking
downitteriy, she walked sobbing away, and ldeked herself into

her room. Half an hour later; she- returned briskly, her coun-
tenance clear and joyous, looking into the great drawing-
rooml.
" Ah, Mr.Vedder, sir ! I hardly thought I'd find you here, and
I am glad you stopped a bit."''
"Yes, Sonsie," said Jan, pushing off his cap, and pulling out
his watch. "You've been gone  bless my soul!  I'd no idea
it was so late-! almost dinner-time!"
"I've come back to spake a little of me mind to you, sir,"
said Sonsie, sitting down. "I've been thinking I should like to
tell Mrs. Slocum about our day. She talked often of adopting
some poor baby, and maybe her heart'd leadAher to pick up
yon little bit ; sure, she'd a bonnie face in her clean frock."
" Is that so? Wll, come ! we'll have up some paper and
things, and indite an epistle here. It should be an enjoyable
affair to write to your dictation, Sonsie."
Jan stepped up by Sonsie's side, infront of the great mirror,
and took off his cap, which' he had been rather uncivilly weare
ing up to this period. "The Irish and' the Dutch," said 'he
mischievously; "pretty good samples, ain't-we ?"
" Yer extremely well -contrived,. Mr.Vedder, sir; aid to my
eye, ye nivir looked so well as 'ye do' at this moment, for fa de-
cent, clean-skinned gentleman; and sure 'tis a brave beginning
that yer making entirely; and here comes the writing' things.
Now sit down; please, and tell them all:tabout those children."
Sonsie was well pleased with their joint production; and
praised highly Jan's eloquent descriptions.  In due time there
came a reply, which it 'is perhaps as Well to give while .'we are
on the subject.
"DEAR JAN,- We got your letter this morning I'd Juise like
to tie that woman to 'a wild mustang colt, anid set hiin loose.

286

287

_ ;
,
;
t ?
c
'
'    t
I-
i
'-
4       f
t
1
1
i
t
.+
i
r
t
t
t       1
i }
F e
i
l
t
I        f
i   1
t
r f
t
,
,   5
f
t
,{
f
f
l
'!
i
}
.d
t   1
,  '      !
I     i       1
it  _       '
,,
.


SONSIES DA Y.             1289

Why didn't you let the rabble chop her all to bits. Dulcet says
my bark is a good deal worse= than my bite.. Well, never mind;
let us drop her. We know the brimstone is a-biling. We'y'
been holding matrimonial councils, off and on, all day most,
tryin' to make up pur mind. just what we do want. Dulcet'
eyes are as red as a rooster's coom, and her nose  well, I
won't say what I was going to, because she's comic . But
the upshot of the whole is this : Dulcet wants the baby. I
kinder hanker after that pair of boys to make farmers- out of.
Dulcet, she says, the two girls would be a nice investment; and
then we calculated how that would leave the other girl all
alone ; they'd been companions in misery, and it seemed al-
most a pity to leave her out in the cold ; and that poor cripple
that pleaded for their lives'so pretty --little helpless, sufferin'
critter ; Them children allers does hey just such faces as you
said,-patient and mild, and Jerusalem crickets. We'll have the
batch, and hang the expense ! I haven't got a relation in the
world I care a barn-cat for, except. Dolphy's folks, and they're
a darned sight richer than I am. My wife, she's set her heart
on fillin' up our house with them God-forsaken young ones,
and I like her for it. Seven is a good number.. There was
seven golden candlesticks, seven rams, seven lambs, seven he-
goats, seven bullocks in the sacrifice ; and it says the whole
assembly took counsel to keep seven days, and they kept them
with gladness.  And Dulcet keeps saying a piece of poetry
about the churchyard, and one that was gone -away somewheres ..
and two was dead; and the little maid sticks to-'it that there
was seyenof 'em yet. Yes, Jan, I want you to go right round
to Van Meter, and tell him to express on the lot. I'll go the
whole hog. My Jemimy! Dulcet, she's smart and spryfand I
glory in her spunk ; and I am quite impatient to hear them
call us papy and mammy."_

Jan laid the affair before the party at dinner, and the two
mamnias nimbly agreed to furnish suitable clothing for the little
strangers, as their share in the pleasure. - (I suppose the tears
they shed over Sonsie's heartbreaking relation didn't count.)
And Lord &amp; Taylor sold seven complete wardrobes, a.dozen of
everything, as theirs. And extremely well-behaved and obliging
was the gentlemanly clerk, while he assisted at the selection.
And Sabrina brought corals, Zoe, knives and forks,'Chris, picture-
books, and Sonsie was beginning to feel her poverty oppressive
when Jan took her to a-toy-store, and bade her select for him;
and she bought an estate, elegant mansion, barn-yards, stables,
orchards, stock, and inhabitants. And Jan admired the white
chip Lombardys, and said, "Are those our poplar trees that
rear?" And in less than a week after Sonsie's day, the seven
innocents were safely housed in Dulcet's home. The Celtic
lassie was jubilant.  She sang in spirit, and exulted to Chris
over the good commencement Mr. Veddpr was making
"Yes, Sonsie, it was cleverly and noblydone. Jan  ,
power for any thing he means to accomplish. He will  iss
getting his will in most of his desires. He is of the kind peo-
ple call 'successful men.'  And, by the way, I 'have a tresure
to show you. I've been to-d4 in- the rarest place! -a wilder-
ness of books ! Mr. Peebles took me into Nassau Street,.and
there is a store down there where the volumes heap the coun-
ters and shelves, and.pile the floor. I had such a good 'time!
There was an illustrated Pilgrim's Progress and a Don Quix
ote-- you never saw such beauties ! I only fetched -away this,"
--(carefully dusting an odd volume of Walpole's Painters)
-" and listen, Sonsie. You must know that Henry VIII.,
whom your true church calls a Protestant reformer, and we
heretics know to have been a cruel, sensual, hard-hearted myur-
derer, had a sister, whom he married to his friend Charles Drar#

288

sONSZ s DAY.


MWV          THE EVENING OF THE DA .
don; and this is the motto which the bridegroom  chose to
adopt  long with his princess bride :
" Cloth of gold, do not despise, though thou be matched with cloth of frieze ;
Cloth of frieze, be not too bold, though thou be matched with cloth of gold."
Sonsie sat with downcast mien for a long time after Chris
shut the book, and when she went away to her room she mur-
mured, "Delicacy, ---culture," and she shook her head more
absolutely than ever.
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE EVENING OF THE DAY.
HRIS sat in the front of the box, at Wallack's, with
John Peebles besideher, and Bertha in the other
chair. At the- last moment, Zoe had made up her
mind to go and hear the serenaders, and Peter, well pleased to
have, her to himself, had carried her off in triumph, charging
Peebles to see carefully after leis party.  Sabrina, who had
"bound up her curls " as did Armida,. " and put some flowers
among them,-as jewels might be, put upon gold, and added a
rose or two to the lilies of her bosom,"-.Sabrina looked fair
and pure as her namesake when she rose from her coral-paven
bed to assist the shepherds. Bertha.seemed quietly happy. An-
other letter from Chandos had followed them, and she read it
the last thing before leaving the St. James, and on the third
page he had said, "Give my love to Bertha."  So she was all in
tune to make the most out ofc" Rosedale."
SChrih' lip drooped with a sorrowful curve, and her eyes were

THE EVENING OF THE DAY1'.

{291

upon her wrist. The bracelet of sapphires were speaking to her
with Max's voice, and her thoughts were busy about him; busy
among the looks and words she had got_ in the great parlor.
She was thinking of the love, and protection, and care she
had turned her back upon. There was a rustle and commotion
in the stall below them; and which was also at their side, a
waft of sweet odors, and Sabrina, who looked through the lat-
tice, uttered an exclamation. Belle Brandon, accompanied by
Henriquez Zambrano, and his sister Dolores, had entered, and
were getting placed, arranging their drapery, and so on. Belle
was enveloped in soft azure satin and swan's-down, and was
bewitching and purring and creamy. And Dolores flashed her
Spanish eyes, and nodded and smiled to her acquaintance, and
appealed constantly to ~her friend, who shook her off rather,
and bent her head-to Zambrano's whispers.. The people in the
parquette were talking about them; one of the beauties of the
season, a belle, engaged to that rich young Cuban." And though
Miss Brandon knew perfectly well that many glasses were
studying her, and many tongues were wagging about her, she
looked simple and unconscious and beautiful.
It was not long, however, before she recognized Bertha, who
leaned forward to examine the dregs-circle, and with a half-
startled face she tried to get 'a view of her companions ; and
then dressed her lips and eyes in radiant gladness, and flut-
tered her fan, and nodded rapturously. Dolores was delighted,
and kissed her hand, and Zambrano bowed courteously.  Ber-
tha bent her -head in return ; and seeing that Chris was. still
ignorant of their neighborhood, drew back into her place and
kept quiet, though she and Sabrina exchanged glances.
The curtain rose upon the fourth act - the Gypsy scene.
Lester Wallack was learning the song from the lips of the
"round, plump bit of humanity" at his feet; and Chris, who

' ,

'


THE EVENING OF THE DA Y.

THE EVENING OF THE DA Y.

had been crying, began to feel fluttered and uneasy.  She
could no longer -fix her attention' upon the' Gypsy tents, and
she sighed, and threw a swift glance over the faces before her,
which stopped upon the box opposite, empty till now, and she
met the gaze of Otho Groenveldt, fastened upon her in sor-
rowful, stern intentness. He was ghastly pale, and but a'
shadow of himself; and Uncle Alec, who leaned his head
upon his white hand, was watching his grave nephew, instead
of the Gypsy child creeping forth to the call of the " Lord of
high degree."'
Chris's lids dropped over her pained eyes, and her forehead
contracted into a troubled frown, and 'the whiteness of snow
drifted into her cheek, blanching its scarlet glow.  John
Peebles spoke to her, reaching down to whisper in her ear,
and she forced herself to look up and reply. It was but an
instant before a glad exclamation from Bertha, and a mur-
mured communication to Sabrina, proved that she had recog-
nized her brother, who bowed and smiled ; and then Uncle
Alec jumped up briskly, and the two left their box, and came
round to where Chris was sitting. She saw in the mirror at
her side her floating curls, her breast-knot of fairy lilies, her
spotless gloves, her soft, rosy-gray wrap, even the bouquet and'
fan in her lap, and she studied also her face, and ruled it to
her will. She remembered how he had left her, and why, and
that they were thenceforth strangers. She knew the two gen-
tlemen were in the box.. She heard Bertha's eager talk, and
even the light kiss she dropped upon her brother's cheek, and
knew intuitively the 'half displeasure such a caress would
awaken in him in so public a place; but she did not turn her
head till Uncle Alec touched Peebles' shoulder (who retreated
instantly), and took the place beside her, and the look she
gave him, with her two hands, was tremulous joy.

"Oh, I'm so glad you've come home, dear Uncle Alec; so
glad ! " said she. She talked. on, feeling that she must pres-
ently meet Otho's eyes, perhaps touch his hand. Pretty soon
it came. Bertha whispered in her ear, " Chris, my brother is
here," and then he came around in front of her and saluted
her gravely, and sat down on the opposite chair, with his back
to the stage. She saw his eyes inspect her dress, her hair, her
face, and then she felt that his attention was fixed upon.4he
jewels clasping her wrist. She -remembered who .owned the
match gems, which were "for Otho's wife," and for one instant
her eyelids fliddered, and her breath came with a sob; but she
let her hands play quietly with her fan, and the sapphires and
diamonds gleamed like-stars.
"Where are you stopping, Otho ?" asked Bertha, who was
still trembling with the excitement of the sudden' meeting.
"At the St. James," he answered.
Then Chris knew that it was indeed his voice, which had
kept her dreaming through the long hours of the silent night.
They were all seated again, Otho retaining his place, and con-
tinuing his examination of Chris, speaking easily to her, from
time to time, and looking in her face for her replies. Sabrina,
who could not help watching them, was amazed by what she
saw; the absolute power her friend showed over her emotions,
or at least over their outward signs, sitting so still and so at-
tentive, speaking in such a- smooth, sweet voice, scarcely a
thrill beneath its purity. 'Presently Otho leaned forward.
"You can give me news of my friend Max," said he.
"You mistake, sir: I know nothing of his whereabouts," she
replied, keeping her eyes upon the bracelet, though a burning
blush suffused her face.
"You have seen him since last Christmas," be insisted, put-
ting his finger significantly upon the centre sapphire.
25*-

L93

292

t          ,
t
r
a
k
r
!
t         '
t
'         t
E
r
t     '
!     I
t -(t
1
E "
s   -
i
t
t
S     r
i ,
t
i
I          y
I     f
r
(
t 7
r
t '
F      t
I t
Ft
t
I,    i    4
'     t
I        ,


294

THE EVENING OF -THE DA 1'.

"I parted with him at twelve o'clock today, Mr. Groen.-
veldt, in the parlor of the St. James," answered Chris, with.
drawing her arm haughtily..
"And you do not know whither he went ?"  His look was
proud and incredulous.
"Simply, no. I think I answered your question before. It
is so many years since I said my catechism, that I. am afraid
I-ave lost my fondness for answering questions, unless I feel
sure the catechist has a right to propose them."
Otho leaned back, and looked and felt offended, and spoke
no.more to Chris, though he was chatty and kind to his sister.
" How odd that we should all be in the same house, and not
know it," said she. "Of course you are coming home to
Rosenbloom with us?"
"Oh, no, my-dear-; he is my boy now," replied Uncle Alec.
"'Lochaber no more.'  From an M.D. he is transformed in-
to a Mexican planter. Only for a little back-set he .got, and a
slight illness,Yyou would not have had a look at your big
brother for ever so many years. I'm going to keep him under
my eye till he gets well."-
"Gets well!f"  He had been ill, then. Chris glanced fur.
tively at his pale face. He had suffered also.
"Have you been very ill?" she asked, not knowing the lan-
guage of her eyes.
"I suppose yes, Miss Goldsmith, but it is humiliating to
reflect upon my imperfect humanity; pray do not remind me
of my weakness. I am quite well now, at all events, having
fought it out with disease, and conquered."
Uncle Alec felt uncomfortable. Otho finished his speech
with a courteous bow, and Chris was inly amused with the
Roland she had got for her Oliver, and fingered her bouquet
in silence.

TIE EVENING OF THE DAZEo

296

"Little Pet."  Uncle Alec"patted her hand.  "You are
more like poor Fred than ever."
" Do you think so? I am glad of that. There is nobody
in the world who comes with my thoughts of papa so often as
you, and those good times up at Craigenfels."
"We'll try, little Pet, if we can't make the old"place gay
again. I am going to have you all up there with me."
"I cannot come, sir," answered Chris, sighing. "It will be
a long time before I sit in the pleasant library, I believe. rm
to be a teacher."
" A teacher ! nonsense I Put that crotchet out of your
pretty head; leave teaching to those whose vocation it is-to
girls whom kind Providence has not blessed with wealth, and
who feel the spur of necessity for the exertion of their best en-
ergies. There is a richer life for .you; and now you are to
come with me to Zoe's wedding. My guest, you know. Ah I
Won't Deb go down on her knees and bless met"
"But Uncle Alec, you don't understand; I assure you it is
impossible."
"That is right," whispered Sabrina, "you make her con-
sent; she is deaf to the voice of my charming."
" Make her ! Why, I hope little Pet will not be so unkind
as to refuse her old uncle a pleasure he has set his heart
upon," replied Mr. Craigenfels, in a hurt tone.
"Please"-Chris laid her hand pleadingly on his-
" please. don't speak of .it any more now, dearest uncle, and
I'll tell you the whole why when we are alone."
As soon as the play was over, Otho lifted courteously Chris's
rosy-gray cloak.
"Permit me, Miss Goldsmith," said he.
" Thanks," she replied, taking it carelessly from his hands.

J T+
1    {
I
{        fiy
j"
S
t    t    _
t        *t11,
i
;
"i
1          -}!
l" it
i           ,
t t .
-        1
I
t .i
(    I       ,
I                   1
;r
t   Ic.
ti
{ E
i1
11        41
e
i
t      I el     t   w
i     t   w
I   I      t!        '
t     I  "  '{
! e (+  I i ,3
1, 111,
1 I   I I
l i


TE EVENING OF 7E- DAY        .
4" Uncle Alec is going to, be my knight. Now for courtly
grace. Look, Mr. Peebles; study his style."
She offered it and her shoulders to the old fellow, who
wrapped her close in it, with a little hug.
"Charming!" exclaimed Peebles; "I shall put that lesson
in practice, the very first opportunity."
Mr. Groenveldt examined the young scholar's face more
-particularly than he had done, before he turned aside,' a trifle
superciliously, and faced Belle. Brandon, who, with the Zam-
branos, was waiting at the door of the box, all gushingness and
dimples. Her .smiles were not for- him, however, and she ig-
nored his presence entirely, and thrust up her little gloved.
hands to Uncle Alec.
"Oh, dear Mr. Craigenfels! I am so delighted to see you;
how nice that you have not forgotten me! I was afraid I
should have to say, "I'm little Belle ,Brandon. I've been 'con-
stant in the practice of your lessons of piety. I'm very good
now."
" And very beautiful, too, my dear girl. 'Well, well! this is a
pleasure'! So you are very good, are you ?  Yes; I can
easily believe it; only a precious pure soul should dwell in
such a lovely body. Here, Chris, Sabrina, Bertha! -Heaven
bless 'Wallack for bringing together such a host of beauties!"
Belle did not in the least mind the chilly greeting she got
from the girls, but went on chatting musically. She did not
mind Zambrano's black looks, either ; in fact, she was getting
tired of his exactions and jealousies, and quite ready to throw
him over for a more eligible fiarti; and the instant her eyes
lighted upon Uncle Alec's genial face, the idea took possession
of her to carry off this easy-going gentleman, appropriate this
Mexiarrmine, and queen it at Craigenfels on her own account.
She had already had .enough of society to understand that a

THE EVENING OF THE .DAY.

'297

great deal of money is absolutely essential to happiness; and
she was ready to give her .dream of a handsome youth. the
go-by.
"I'll see you to-morrow, -good people," said she, as Zam-
brano put her into the carriage. "Meet me t.t PhilippL"
"You take care of the ladies, Mr.:Peebles," said Uncle Alec
to that youngster, who was wandering about vaguely. "I'l take
Miss Goldsmith off your hands ; " and in another instant. she
was seated by Otho Groenveldt's side ; but- if the kind old
fellow' who sat opposite thought to get any pleasure.out2of his
arrangement .beyond:a.fleeting glimpse of her. downcast face,
as they whirled past the lamps, he was disappointed; for the
two young people scarcely spoke all the way. Every thing
seemed unreal to: the poor girl, and she. stepped out of the
carriage, assisted by the man she had worshipped, as in a
waking dream.
Zoe and Peter were the first home, and pretty soon Jan and
Sonsie had come in ; he with queer face, fun-lighted, and yet
overclouded by vexation. The four were talking before the
great window.of the tea-room; Zoe, who was, in the highest
spirits, pouring out little snatches of the songs she had heard,
and reciting the jokes, 'while they waited for their friends.
"Well, Sonsie," said Peter, "how did you like your Irish
play ?"
"'Tis a very purty play, sir; and the pogue was a sweet
thought, and. was well and bravely done of the little girl in the
green spencer; nd very trim and nate she looked in it and
her blue hosen and 'her short kirtl ; and she'd manage that
spalpeen as the South wind manages the thistle-down. I liked
her purty much; but.the omershaw of a fellow hisself !=-don't
be talkin' of hin I He's no true. :oy'tgo sthrealing about the
country, disgracin' his kinsfolk ! The poor Irish people are

,;f.
,
,,
f
-
,
'
i
1
i
(
.
k
1
E
F
,   .
r r
c    l
E,
.
F
jit
6
- f.
[
t ,
,
i
1
-     r
f-
j     .
i
t
4
t     r
rf
1
wr  1
,
,
i
c
V;
,f
'(
'
,
. i  j
{
{i
,
. 4  .
,
!
'
r' 1
1
.'t
i   ',  i
,f  i


298

THE EVENING OF TLE DA Y.

down-trodden and made game of, and 'tis the fashion of the .
Yankees to speer scoffs and, jeers at them; but no true lad
would go up and down amongst ye, holding the ould country
up to ridicule, - the dear land that'd be a paradise, only for
the murderin' villians that's got the rule. of it, bad luck to 'em !"
"You ought to have heard Sonsie rave at me," said Jan,
laughing, "as if I had insulted her. I shook in my shoes. I
was certain she was about to insist upon going behind the
scenes, to upbraid Barney with his misbehavings."
"Never fear me for that," Mr. Vedder. "I'd not give me
lane tongue the job to -scold the silly fool, and he a Kildare
boy 'hisself."
They saw the carriage stop, and Chris descend, followed by
the grave doctor and a stout gentleman, and Sonsie sprang to,
meet her, saying, joyfully, " Ah ! my white angel ;" and she
kissed her hand with the kind of adoration which her manner
always had for Fred's daughter, and which, somehow, sat grace-
fully upon her ; and Zoe and Peter and Jan exclaimed, "Uncle
Alec! '" and all got hold of him at once.
"I hope you have also a welcome for me," said Otho, offer-
ing his hand to. Zoe, who glanced quickly at Chris, still and
composed, before extending hers. If there was any want of
cordiality, however, in her .reception, Peter and Jan, fully made
up for it. Both were delighted to see him.
4" And this is my dear friend Sonsie Eagan," said Chris, lead-
ing, her up to Uncle Alec. "You must take:her into your fold,
you kind shepherd.'
Sonsie courtesied, in h r bold, modest way, and scanned the
hearty, comfortable face before her with evident pleasure..
"'Indeed, then, I think innocent lambs might be safe and
happy under your guidance, sir," said she, fearlessly. "St.

THE EVENING OF THE DA Y.

299

John hisself, in the picture of the holy apostles, hasn't a finer
beard, nor a sweeter look of kindliness altogether entirely."
Uncle Alec laughed, and put his mouth close to Sonsie's
ear.
"Did you ever hear of the blarney-stone, my dear?" asked
he.
" Oh, yes, indeed, sir, often ; but it's niver a kiss at all that
I've given to it, for the reason that I'm keepin me kisses till I
meet wid their lawful owner."
"Mr. Groenveldt, allow me to present you to Miss Eagan,"
said Zoe, seeing that Chris did not speak.
"Sonsie Eagan, and Miss Walsingham's maid, at your ser-
vice," replied the Irish girl, whose eyes turned from Uncle
Alec, still lighted with the pride and merry mischief his ques-
tion had called up. " Mr. Groegveldt is no stranger to me,
Miss Zoe. Indeed, you. didn't row very handsome those
times, did you, sir ?"
Otho scanned Sonsie curiously, and returned her deep cour-
tesy with a slight bow, and a little curl of his haughty rp, evi-
dently wondering what manner of woman she might be, so
downright in her comments, and so careless, of dignities ; and
Jan was half amused at Sonsie's doings, and half vexed, but
wholly filled with admiration for her lustrous beauty. Pretty
soon the others arrived; Peebles still maundering a little
vaguely, like a body cut loose- from its controlling attraction,
and Sabrina walked up to Zoe in haste.
"Who do you suppose we saw at Wallack's to-night ?" ex-
claimed she.
"Not Prince Arthur, nor Mrs. Stanton, nor tie king of the
Cannibal Islands?"
"Hush, Zoe ! DOe rarllor. She had the Z mbranos in

:;j ;
r
H:;
E   4
4
4:
1
i    '
I
i        t5
t     +
1   1
t
i
7   t
1 _
,f
t   i
t
i      .'
I
f   r
S    1   i

i li
;f'
+  {j
5  f
Ifl
'fit
},
Ifs
1
1  i
i
r fit'
I j
t   ;
(
j;.
l;
!
,;
,
:,
C  °
i,
i  !t '
r,
11
!
i?
s'
Vii,
r
t !
i; i
{


THE EVENING OF THE DAY.

convoy, and she was, as Chandy used to say, 'blue-eyed and
beautiful.'"
"Oh, ye tears! that evil spirit again ! What did she say?"
"She was dressed like a duchess. Uncle Alec can tell you
what she said, for she lavished all her smiles and sweetness on
him."
Yes ; Miss Brandon ! Oh, really a most bewitching,
snperb girl, rarely lovely ! quite a contrast to that flashing
Spanish beauty, and the black-browed fellow, -her brother, I
suppose. He rather glared at me than otherwise, I thought.
Those Spaniards make bad husbands for our free-spoken, inde-
pendent girls ; and I hope that confiding, artless child, with.
her swimming eyes, that entreat love with every simple glance,
won'twhelp herself to sorrow. She reminded me very prettily of
our meeting in the cars, and ,n admonition I gave her to prac-
tice good works. I must f. ollect to prove to her that I also
have a memory."
The girls exchanged glances, and Zoe made a horrible face.
"We'll all go down to that magazine of wonders, that Alad-
din's cave of delights, where rubies and -pearls and diamonds
are kept on purpose for good girls. Yes; we'll go to Ball &amp;
Black's, and we'll say to them, 'Gentlemren, show us sonle
gems worthy of these young women you see before you;' and
we'll buy. Do you like bracelets and brooches, brave lady ?"*
asked Uncle Alec of Sonsie, who had been watching all his
gestures, and listening to his talk in a sort of benevolent rap-
ture. 'We came yery near being country-folk, I think, -
you and I. I've seen some bonnie blue eyes, in my day,
about county Kildare, -- as like to yours as two peas. Can
you speak Irish ?"
"No, sir; me father could, but; an.d me mother sings'some
Irish songs that are sweeter than tlhe notes in the thrushes'

throats. Me mother is a O'Rouke, sir." (Sonsie more Hiber-
nicO. Uncle Alec straightened himself, and imitated her pose
exactly.)
"Ah ! county Ulster?" 
"The very same, sir. God love its braes and bonny
fields !"
"Well, Sonsie, we must shake hands on that ; .for n y, g t-
grandmother was an O'Rouke of county Kildare; an    y
grandmother had such a choice selection of tales, and legends,
and fairy lore, as kept me pinned to her apron whenever she
would open her budget, all about the Kilpies, and the 'has
fial,' or crowning-stone, which used to sing when a good king
was made upon it, and schreeled and howled if a wicked man
but touched it with the tip of his finger. Did you ever hear
that story, Sonsie?"
"No, sir," she answered, coming a little closer to him, all
ardor for the story ; " will ye plase tell it to me? Sure I
know a beauty, that ud set it schreeling if. she but sot foot
upon it."
Uncle Alec laughed at her eager face.
"Not to-night, my lass. 'Tis time to part., Thou hearest
that hateful watchman's cry. Past twelve o'clock. Good-
night."
28

,                                                     ;"'   iii   ,
i  .I ili';t
!     ,i
, ; , ,
-                                    ;; j  ii 'if
i(,  t
y ,,' lfi   ,, I
i Iji  l '
1 . I;;,  . R ,

eft;
,,
:;,
;,
jt
{,
,

k +f;j
'' !
i ,
'
i}.;
i i
q
I+,
is}
S '
;If
,'.
}
; '
1 ;'
.,
t!!
ij'j
f '
!i!
i
i i
J

301

300

THE. E EVENING OF THE DA 1;

1  ,
t   t     .
y   R(   ,y'
{
k ,
r'
  ,.
I _'
4
. :;
-.
. ,
,
,
'   ,
_         V
'
r,
r;
i
,i F
-
!;
j   }
1
1
l
i
'   S
I
1         t 1
t.
r
i!!
'   .I   .
i
'
i t0
(   , _.,
t         ''F
,"t
1   t
i           y
_
.
a    y
{
1  !         '
E       u y
J
i
t    -4
yi yy;
'       .f ,
t  I   ;S
1
'           X
s  '      lTn
i.
i
II;   ,   u r
, ,  ' r
'!   E:
t      t'  4   .
t           '
r      l:
i
i.
'       S  r
°   ~( ;; ,


302        "LA IZERIDA MAS GRA VE."

" LA HERIDA MAS GRAVE."      30

CHAPTER XXVII.
LA HERIDA MAS GRAVE ; SE RECIBE DE QCULTA MANO."
HE next morning, Mrs. Walsingham, Zoe, and Uncle
Alec had a good long talk in the great parlor, looking
down upon Wilson's sewing-machines; and they
begged him to take Chris home with him.
"I wish her to be my bridesmaid, and I will have her. You
must carry her off by force, if necessary."'
Yes, indeed," said Sabrina who had come in while Zoe was,
speaking. "Yes; and we must see to her dresses. We know
quite well how her mother treats her as to money. She was so
sour, when we went to Brookside, on the subject of the
wedding."
'.Dresses ! Of course; get her every thing, any thing you
can think of. What-! Fred's child ill-provided! Why he was
the daintiest fellow; and he loved to see his darling arrayed
like the lilies. I remember quite -well how she used to go in,
white, and her Paris slippers and the like ! She was his idol."
Zoe enlightened the old fellow somewhat upon Chris's status,
and caused him to open his eyes, and the mammals enlarged a
good deal, and spoke their minds quite freely tipon the mother-
hood of the widow.
"How lucky that I came home as I did," exclaimed Uncle
Alec, with joyous mien, and jingling the loose cash in his pock-
ets,; " the-mines and the indigo, and the coffee, and the rest,-
have piled in the money this year.; what a perfect god-send, to
find some good young people who can put it into use for me."
Belle Brandon entered the parlor just in time to hear these
words, and her gushingness and absolute innocence were won-

derful. She threw a comprehensive glance around her, and
was full of affection. After an ernpressse greeting- to them all,
she sank down upon the sofa, close to Uncle Alec, who re-
turned her bewitching little smile with one' of expansive benev-
olence, including admiration for her loveliness and perfect dress,
-perfect, from the costly black velvet cloak down:tox-the tiny
buttoned boot, of which, she displayed the tip from under her
satin petticoat.
"I am very glad to see you, my dear," said he, "because
we shall impress your taste into our service, we have arduous
labors before us."  Then whispering behind his hand, and close
to Belle's peachy cheek, he added, "There's the cadeau to buy
for the betrothed."
Zoe ran to fetch her mother's shawl, and met. Chris just out-
side the door.
" Marplot has arrived," said she, concisely. She also ran
over Otho and Bertha, who were coming down the hall in close
conversation. "That odious girl I she's in there. I wish you
had all been in bed and asleep that night; instead of poking off
to the old theatre. You can't shake her off any more than
you could the old man of the sea."
" Oh, a morning call or so won't hurt us," - said Bertha, simil
ing, " and, of course, we are not obliged to return them if we
don't -choose. I wouldn't be so disturbed, Zoe."
"I'll tell you, Miss Bertha, I should not be in the least sur-
prised if she wheedled an invitation to Craigenfels. I believe
she is fishing for it."
"Nonsense, Zoel! I've heard her declare often and often
that she'd never set foot in Roaring River again."
"Oh, grant that she may stick to her resolve, and keep us
safe from her," said Zoe, speeding on her errand.
"Yes, Chris and Bertha," said Uncle Alec, continuing his
Chrs ad Brth,"                           ;:ii


04       "LA H.ERIDA MAS GRA VE."

" LA BERIDA MHAS-GR AVE."

plans for the day. "We'llgo to Ball &amp; Black's, and this young
lady will accompany us. I always enjoy taking a lot of beau-
tiful girls into a jeweller's shop."
"Miss Goldsmith has developed a taste for trinkets since we
parted, I think," said - Belle, floating up, and lifting the arm,
from which-Max's sapphires had not been removed: "this is a
rare gem, indeed.'
Chris snatched away her wrist, and could not help glancing
at Otho, who was quietly studying her; and Belle Brandon
knew instantly that there was some story connected with that
bracelet, and was curious to find it out, and eager to ascertain
the status of all parties; and readily accepted Uncle Alec's in-
vitation, calculating her chances of wheedling something out of
somebody for her own adornment. As the girls withdrew, she
fastened upon Bertha-
"Do you like being in society as much as you expected,
Belle?"
Bertha did her best to be civil, while she fully endorsed Zoe's
opinion of the " marplot."
"Oh, yes,. I like it rather ; I have attention enough, and no
end of offers, and I enjoy my squabbles with Aunt Isadore.. I
have a scene over every article I wear ; and I look passably
well dressed, I think."
"You see a great deal of the Zambranos, I supposes? "
"Toutes lesfoisgquife eux," replied Belle, carelessly. "Do-
lores is always hanging about one9'
"She's a dear affectionate girl. I became truly attached to
her. She was lovely last 'evetiing in her black and gold robe,
--as bright as a star."
"She is passable, certainly if one likes the deep, intense
style ; so manyfeelings get fatiguing, and such constant car-
resses; I dontt fancy it myself. She is apt to look rather sal

low of a morning after dancing. Brunettes always do. By the
way, it seems to me you haven't quite your old bloom, Bertha.;
are you not well ?"
Bertha drew the long black tresses' she was brushing, down
over her face, and felt uncomfortable, and made no reply.
" Your brother is changed also : he gangs like a ghost. What
ails you all ?"
As Bertha had no idea of talking except the baldest general-
ities, she replied that Otho was just recovering from a fever;
and changed the subject.
" Have the Zambranos decided to remain in New York ? "
"Oh,-no, indeed ! they return to their plantation this spring,
and beg and implore me to accompany them; but' I have no
idea of going into a shell at present.- Plantation-life with Hen-
riques Zambrano would be just a dose of that person morning,
noon, and night, and he rages at anybody who as much as looks
at me. I rather liked it at first,-so'romantic,- but he gets
monotonous. However, his idea of presents -are magnificent,
- I must accord him that praise."
Belle arranged her bracelets, and admired her brooch and
earrings in the mirror over Bertha's shoulder.
"By the way, cherie, do you ever hear, from our old friend
Chandos, the spouter of Shakespere?"
Bertha blushed painfully, and could hardly reply.
"Sometimes,"-she stammered;. " that is," feeling it necessary
to be truthful, "I read his letters to Chris once in a while."
" Dolores is his most constant correspondent, I fancy.- Not
a week goes by that the little simpleton doesn't get a letter ; and
such letters ! six, twelve, twenty pages; and I must do Mr.
Goldsmith the justice to say, that his epistles are both brilliant
and amusing, though the goose of a Dolores hides postscripts
28*

} -
"           t
L , SSSi ,
t V
,i.
-_
t  v
}
i.,
f tr
r
it lit ;}f  f/y
j r,(L'  y
i{ f II !I'1  - iiyru
rat 1    k '  l
1110"
iii  '
(iEl 1lEI;'f .1


08        "LA HERIDA MAS GRA VE."

and particular-bits from me,- too tender for my melting mood,
I suppose."-
Bertha got as pale as a ghost, and Miss Brandon's eyes glit.
tered as she floated off with Sabrina, who looked in to - see if
her friend was ready. Peter and Jan were gone to the cattle.
market in search of Kerrys and Guernseys. Zoe and the two
mammas went to Lord &amp; Taylor's, and Peebles down to Nas-
sau Street, where he wished to work the book-mine he and
Chris had struck, and the others were waiting for Bertha.
Pretty soon she came, looking so weary and white, that Otho
immediately ordered her to stay at home.
"Ill ! Bertha, ill! Why she was as hearty as a duck half an
hour ago," said Uncle Alec, taking her chin,-in his hand. " You
are tired, my pretty! up too late last night, missed your beauty
sleep. Ah, well ! we will put off our business another day.
Jewels will keep."
"Am I the sinner, mea cuffa ?" said Belle, floating up, in
virgin innocence, and brushing Uncle Alec's vest with her
curls, in her loving anxiety to get a glimpse of Bertha's face.
"I made an indiscreet, statement.  I do remember now, she
got white directly. Can you forgive me? unfortunate little
wretch that I am ! always stepping on somebody's toes. Now
I assure you, Mr. Craigenfels, I hadn't the remotest idea when
I told Bertha that ---"
" I am quite well indeed,!" said the poor girl, hastily pushing
off the blonde, who had kissed her cheek in the most childish,
cunning penitence. "Nothing ails me,- do let us go at once."
Belle was satisfied : she had no idea of losing her pleasure,
and her prospective gain, for any of Miss Bertha's sick fancies.
But T.ncle Alec still missed some one.
"Ah i where is our bonny O'Rouke?" asked he.
Belle was all attention at once. Uncle Alec had got Jan's

position in a long confidential.talk, before they slept, the night
before ; and he heartily approved of his course, and filled the
young fellow's soul full of delight by his praises of Sonsie.
Chris went quietly and fetched the lassie, who came, briskly
stepping and stood before him..
An' is it me, sir, that ye'd be after wanting, sir? .Sure I
hope there's something I can do for you."
"Yes, my pretty O'Rouke, there is. You are to fetch your
hat till we have a little step together," replied Uncle Alec, in
as rich a brogue as her own.
"Who'is this girl ?" asked Belle of Chris,
" Her name is Sonsie ; she is a friend of ours, and shortly ; to
become a pupil at Rosenbloom," replied Chris, in absolute
ease. "Come hasten, dear!" she added, caressingly ; going
up to Sonsie, who had heard the question and the reply.
"I thought I was not mistaken,' exclaimed Belle; "this is
Mrs. Deacon Williams's housemaid ! What wave of fortune
brings her here among gentlefolks."
Uncle Alec and Otho looked curiously at the erect Milesian,
whose eyes were fixed upon the blonde, and who stood erect
and fearless.
"I can aisy answer that for, ye, Miss Belle ; sure 'twas nary
wave at all, but the cars just; and Miss Walsingharp, whose
maid I am, can tell ye why I came, not that I had any expecta-
tion of seeing you either, though I have no objection in course.
Miss Mary Ann has been very ill, and she used often to be
talking of you; the picture you made, and the dresses you
wore, and all that happened last year,- Faith! ye made a busy
year of it,-.nd as ye were sayin', these be real gentlefolks.. I.
know now better than I used the makins. of a lady,-- there's
truth, purity, culture, delicacy, and purple blood. D'ye mind

t;
f
fu
tj
-  I II
r{
f {
{ i
i

LA HERIDA MAS -GRAVs."-

i
.r   }
i a   ,     '
! ,l

"   i'


" LA HERIDA MAS GRAVA."     AG9

that now, Miss -Belle ? Oh, yes, Mr. Craigenfels, I'll step out
wid ye, and pleased, since ye 'are so kind as ask me."
Otho studied Sonsie Eagan's face-in some astonishment, and,
Uncle Alec was amazingly tickled with her reply, and 'her up.
right, free, graceful demeanor; but at the same time, knowing
the world, and its prejudices and customs, he was amused
with the artless betrayal of surprise on the part of the "child of
society," and was not by any means hard upon her, though he
took occasion to change the subject."
Otho, my boy, what a lovely show we have got with these
four styles of beauty, for wax figures. We'll arrange somlas
soon as we get home to Craigenfels.".'
"I think I shall not leave New York at present. I intend
to get about my engines and presses directly," looking at Chris,
who flushed and fluttered."
"We won't start an argument on that subject now," replied
Uncle Alec, impatiently. "'Sufficient unto the day;' and I've
my hands full with these girls."
Belle unwittingly did Sonsie Eagan an especial service. Sa.
brina had rather stood aloof; now she thought deeply upon the
requisites for a lady, and she mentally contrasted the true
womanly nature she knew Sonsie owned, with the beauty, and
she came out decidedly: It seemed 'that some 'one else had
been thinking also ; for when the  rish lassie presently re
turned, looking fresh as a rose, clear-eyedand niodest, Otho
bowed gravely to her, as they all started out together, and he
took his place beside Chris as easily and naturally-as if it still
belonged to him; and her eyes, seeking the ground, rested upon
his boot,well shaped and perfect, and thence at his gloves, and
then mounted to his face,'grave -and pale, and she felt a little
kindly sympathy. He had been ill, poor fellow, though he did
not like. being reminded of it. Did he have tender nursing?

She was very near asking some such question, when he
spoke.,
"So our sprightly friend, Miss Zoe, is about to marry!"
Something in his tone was extremely-unpleasant, and sent
the crimson into her cheek, and he quietly studied her counte-
nance, her chestnut curls, her dress, and watched the play of
her lips while she answered. He was cool, masterful, and
courteous through all; but his demeanor irritated her ; his posi-
tion by her side, so easily taken, without her consent, was a
trial of her nerve-power. If the Doctor knew it, if he saw her
flickering color, and the old wistfulness he used to love, steal-
ing into her brown .eyes, he made no sign; he was attending to
her reply, which she :framed at her best.
"It is true, sir, what you have heard. 'Honor, riches, mar-
riage-blessing' are ready for Zoe, who. hurries her preparations
for the approaching day; all of which she thoroughly enjoys, as
she does every occupation she picks up. Zoe is ;a refreshing
girl, so positive, so full of merry conceits and pretty whims, one
never tires of her."
"You praise your friends roundly, Miss Goldsmith (with a
provoking smile). The. little gypsy is very charming and
piquant certainly ; and the traits you mention are extremely
agreeable. 7 In a wife, however something more might be de-
sired to insure happiness.' I remember quite well, for in-
stance, a summary of matrimonial needs, which I heard' once,
which seemed to me quite complete : 'love, respect, repose,
satisfaction, iconcord, mutual giving and receiving.',"
Chris was startled; frightened. This fearless touching of
old days, and that day among the provence buds above al
penetrated her very soul. She looked at him grave, upright,
"dominant," and she half thought, hard and cruel also, and felt
that she would need all, her strength, all her self-poise to carry

49LA HERID  NAS G. Al7M

i,
. '1
i
~F,",f
, .S


810       " LA HERIDA AAS GRAVE."

"ILA HERIDA MAS GRAVE."      '31.

herself discreetly in his presence, and she would not falter or
show any weakness; but she smiled a little bitterly.
"I suppose, when I made up that remarkable estimate,
whose carefulFrepetition does credit to your memory, that I
was interested in the subject. Did/-ever you hear an old say.
ing, La Aerida mas grave; se recipe de oculta mano 9"
If Chris thought to shelter herself behind her proverb, she
was mistaken ; for Otho answered,~-
"That reminds me of my good Max. The saying was often
in his mouth. He should be of our party, being learned in
choice gems."
Chris involuntarily dropped her eyes upon her sapphires.
"Did the dear boy tell you a story of a brooch he -knows
about?  I was promised the tale by his mother; but the time
never came for me to hear it. I believe it was wrought
among her bridal days. Shall I tell you who.is to have a set
of sapphires, if she can be found, Miss Goldsmith ? "
Chris was deeply embarrassedand would have plucked off
the bracelet and hidden it out of sight, if she had dared, and
fully resolved to do so the first opportunity. Meanwhile,
Uncle Alec had paused before a window, within which stood a
case of gorgeous butterflies, azure, sea-green,.violet, vivid scar-
let and cobalt, such as flit about the Brazilian passion-flowers;
and he waited till Sonsie. and Sabrina came up.
"Roukie, did. ever you. see a collection of moths?" asked
he,
".Niver, sir, barrin' the cunnin' villians that's sure to be getting'
round on old muffs, sir."
She was gazing straight at Belle Brandon. A sudden thought
possessed her that that blonde beauty w9uld like to-be lady of,
Csaigenfels. She couldn't have told why she thought it; but
she seemed .to know that she had such a plan, and her blue

eyes looked rather threatening, so much so, in fact, that Belle
wished her disposed of, even as the good old deacon prayed to
be delivered from his scolding wife, -" 0 Lord, let her be
gently removed."
Uncle Alec took off his hat, and hid his face behind it.
"Let us walk on, my dear," said he to Belle.
"Why, Sonsie, what induced you to make such a rude
speech to Uncle Alec ?"
"'Tis Bible truth, Miss Sabrina, and no lie at all. What was
wrong with me.saying ?  Sure, I'd niver drame of being rude
to such a kind gentleman as Mr. Craigenfels."
When Sabrina explained the force and bearing of the re-
mark, Sonsie's eyes lighted with fun.
" The gentleman 'll kindly forgive me ignorance. And
wasn't it the sharp cut that I give yon blue-eyed lass that was
niver any good, 'tis me sworn belief, egg nor burd! Look at
her ! dear young lady! a leaning on his arm, and peeping into his
handsome old face. Ah! wisha ! Craigenfels'11 have a mistress,
I'm thinking, .that'll make things spin, if she gets her will. I've
watched her tricks and her manners down at the Deacon's,
when she usen't to think I was minding; and if it comes, she'll
be worse nor the old song, 'she'll cross him and rack him till
she'll heart-br'ak him,' and a sore pity for all is- brewing the
day he tales her home."
Sabrina had good opportunity to test her new conclusions,
as. she walked with Sonsie in her black dress, trim gloves and
shoes. She found her bright, fresh face and deep violet eyes
enjoyable, and owned that she looked like a lady, and eve
word she uttered, though richly twirled and twisted on he
Irish tongue,'proved that she had the elements of"'gentleness '
in her soul; and Sabrina, the lady, pointed out the objects of
interest to the companion she had chosen, and chatted: pleas.

N;

.1

f
i 'i
1 , .
,
ii
{
+,
1
I; F
' !
I
;
tI,,
Ij!'
j
?
,
l  !
' i
I
i,


312       "LA HERIDA MAS GRAVE."

antly ; and quick-witted Sonsie read her through and through,
She had made her point upon Belle, and she felt merry and
lively, and she poured forth her witty trifles so mirth-provoking,
and took what Sabrina offered "across her gulf." '.
Uncle Alec consulted Miss Brandon upon the cadeau, and
after remembering that Zoe loved brilliant stones, -rubies, dia.
monds, and the like, which suited her gypsy- style, she sug.
gested pearls ; and the first thing Uncle Alec asked for was a
choice of the treasures of the deep, and he laid aside a magnifi.
cent set, and really it was an admirable . selection, because
Peter and Jan had been in on their way down, and there were
some dazzling things getting engraved 'with a Zoe, in some
back apartment, at that very moment.
Now Miss Brandon made a discovery: gazing down among
the gems, she found a green brooch ; a cluster of pansies, the
two lower petals of each a precious opal, like those which are
compared, in the Orphic poem, to the delicate complexion of a
lovely youth; and the upper ones formed of such amethysts as
Heliodorus describes in the king of Ethiopia's ring: "and so
saying, he put into his hands a ring, one of the royal jewels, an
extraordinary and astonishing thing, the shank being formed of
electrum, and,. the beasil flaming with an Ethiopian amethyst,
in size, abput the form of a maiden's eye, but in beauty far sur-
passing  the  Iberian sort, which  blushes "with a feeble
hue like a rose. just unfolding its leaves from  the bud,
and beginning to be tinged by the red of the sunbeams;
but the Ethiopian amethyst, out of its depth, flames
rth like a torch ; a pure, and, as - it were, spring-like
auty."  Belle ordered the clerk to. produce the brooch, and
she took it in her hand to a window and studied it, keeping
her back to the party the while. The four pansies had eyes of
Spanish topaz, and were hung upon golden; stems, and reposed

" LA HERIDA MAS GRAVE."

313

among emerald leaves of studded work, exceeding rare. She
considered with care. They might not see the brooch.   She
hated to put Chris in possession of such a choice beauty, which,
she spitefully reflected, was just quaint enough forther; but she
turned at length, her mind made up. The delight of stabbing
a girl she hated in the presence of all who knew her stoty, face
to face with the proud man who had made her suffer, and also
inflicting the wound so delicately that Uncle Alec (who, she
had assured herself sby adroit strategy, knew nothing of .Otho's
affairs) should admire her kind impulses, her pretty eagerness
to serve a friend. She floated down to the group, who had
their heads together over a "regard ring" Uncle Alec was
about to buy; a secret gift to a lady he loved, and never;forgot
to please, and exclaimed, throwing her . blue eyes upon the
genial gentleman's face, swimming in childish eagerness, her
dimples all displayed, and her pearls of teeth, --
" Look, Mr. Craigenfels ! look all of you 1 this lovely thing
for Chris; her favorite and most cherished flower. She wears
them on her bosom ; she weaves them among her curls. She
crowned with them the Sapho knot, that day of days when she
rode like fair Rosamond her coal-black steed. You remember
that day, Mr. Groenveldt, and our dinner up at Craigefels ;
she kissed them as they had been lovers. Come, buy it, kind
sir; and let me place it, with a wish for her future and a thought
for her past."
Chris's-dilating eyes were fastened upon the blonde, but she
saw not the peachy bloom in her creamy face, nor the scarlet
of her lips, nor her soft, floating curls; the melodious tone of her
voice jarred on her sense.
"A snake's small eye blinks dull and sly.
And the lady's eyes they shrunk in her head;
Each shrunk up to a serpent's, eye,
With something of malice, and more of dread."
27

C d'
,            r
,       t     try
L
r     I      ,
it


" LA H ERIDA MAS GRA VE."!    815

314

"LA HfE RDA MAS GRA VE."

The words so possessed her that she could hardly refrain
from speaking them ; and yet Belle had, never looked more
radiantly beautiful, and, in the -next passing moment, Chris
lived through the wretchedness in the library, when she had
stood apart, despised shunned, and Belle Brandon's Geraldine
glance," a tongue of, light -ad a flit of flamee" had triumphed
in her agony. Uncle {Alec took the eager speaker's hands, box
and all, and patted them kindly.
"Good little girl!" said he. "You love to give pretty
Pet pleasure, don't you? Yes, yes ; she' shall .have the
brooch, if it suits her. That's precisely the use and value of
such gauds, to gratify nice children. I've a small affair to
settle with your bright eyes presently. Come, Chris, darling ;
do you like the thing of aiethysts and opals ? An-oddity, is
it not?"
"That is one reason it suits Cherie. She's an oddity, too.
Of course she likes it, only she's modest," put in B3elle, gayly.
Before Chris had time to gather up her thoughts, so' that the
"sight to dream of, riot to tell," had faded, and left- only the
faces of her friends, Sabrina touched her, as'if she would have
said, Do not permit her to trouble you," and then Chris drew
her hand within Uncle Alec's arm.
"Come here, my dearkind uncle," said she; "I will show
you what I want. These ornaments are all pretty, but I was
early taught to despise them. Here are the gems I delight
She led him to a case, of bronzes, an'd poited out an "An-
adne," and when they returned the pansy brooch was gone.
"Now, Miss Brandon, for the reward of goodworks. Since
you flatter an old fellow by remembering what he says, you
must let him show his gratitude. Come, pretty one, what
shall it be?"

" Could you match me that bracelet on Chris's arm?"
asked she.
" Chrs I little pet. I do recollect. I was going to look at
it when you mentioned it before. What I sapphires ::ad dia-
nonds! Why, this is a. wonderful beauty ! I ,amn afraid our
friends Ball &amp; Black cannot show its fellow. Is ita famly
jewel, Chris?"
" I believe. so, sir, but not of the Goldsmith family."
Chris looked deeply pained and unhappy.
" Look here, Otho, my boy. Did youever see such an odd
setting?"
"Very odd, indeed. I have seen itoften.
Uncle Alec glanced from Chris's face to. his nephew's, and
privately concluded that she was wearmg his g ft, and =he was
more mystified than ever." The clerk behind the counter liap..
pened to be the same who had attended Max, ande he looked
pointedly at Chris's wnst, sayng,-
"I hope the engraving. please you, Miss I-Your gentlem an
found a good deal of fault ; but it was just as he ordered,.for
all that.'
Poor Chris was ready todrop, aid Belle went on smoothly,
"I could fancy something blue, Mr. Craiggnfels. Pease
don't quench poor. old Chris 1.though I must whisper in your
ear that she is a sad flirt, -spare her blushes-and I'll let
you into al secret. John, Peebles-ismore than moon-struck
about her; and ancha.nurher of bl.elo.s .ashe smiles p
Ah I .there's aa-.prptty set.of apiethysts, glL c ggplete, sleeve-
buttons, studs, inclusive.              u
They were vey beautiful, c e  as w tergand lvely deep
purple ; and Uncle Alec held tmen  p be oreghris.
"Buy thgsefor'Sabrma,'naid4shesof tly- c uisk ly.
" The amethysts are sold, -Miss Brandon ; but as you are too

'
'14
i4 I fi
i i 
1 J 1f!  ii
f  . I   I  Ff


"L4 HERIDA MAS GRAVE."

" LA HERIDA MAS GRAVE."

"pure womanly" to require any charm against the wine-cup,
we needn't mind. Show us something blue."
"How could you fancy turquoise, sir ?" displaying a mag.
nificent set in Etruscan gold.
Belle quickly observed that there was a coronet of showy
workmanship, and said, modestly,-
"Those are as blue as truth, sir. I like them. But if they
should be too costly?"
"Nothing can be tdo costly to reward good works."
Belle began, to regret that she had not selected diamonds ;
but, with her possibilities, she saw them hers in the resplendent
future. Sonsie and Sabrina were studying the bronzes, which
Chris was explaining, and Uncle Alec came up, and said, -
"Roukie, my dear, I want to give you a brooch for the sake
of the kin blood. Come and chose it."
Sonsie's face lighted.
"An' is it a brooch, sir, for me breast? Indeed, then,
there's the beautiful green glass one over there would plase me
rarely. That one,-sir.
Uncle Alec laughed heartily, and the clerk could not help
joining, as he produced a fine emerald, set around with grad-
uated beryls, three deep, and laid it down for inspection.
"Excuse the fang," said Belle to Otho;."but that girl is
any thing but green."
"Roukie, I'll get that trifling esmeralda on these conditions:
You shall never offer to return it to me ; you shall never give
it away, and you shall let me put on the match jewels when
you're married."
"I'll promise all that aisy enough sir. I'm not the girl to
gve away my fairings; and when married ! Ye're safe enough
there. The trim young bachelo that's to say ' Sonsie, will' ye

marry me, for bether or for worse,' hasn't come over from
Limerick yet - and small loss."
Nobody but Uncle Alec and his "fust cousin " knew what
Chris's prettiest fairing was, because he tucked her under his
arm, and walked off and bought it in secrecy, and chuckled-
and he and she had the pleasure of putting it on, with a couple
of kisses apiece, -f a delicate frost-work chain, and a little
watch.
M rs. Vedder came home from her shopping in high feather,
she having made a raid on Sonsie's apartment, and carried off
the exact measurement of her black bombazine, and purchased
a complete school-girl outfit, which she exhibited to Jan, with
vast exultation. He admired the purchase, and hugged the
purchaser.
"Now, mother," said he, " the next thing is to, coax her to
wear them."
" Coax her 1" replied .Mrs. Vedder.
She folded the garments out of sight directly. To tell the
truth, she had been visited by sundry misgivings;of the same
pattern, though she so indignantly repudiated her son's sug-
gestion.
Uncle Alec knocked at. Chris's door that evening, and found
Sonsie holding her "white angel" in her strong, loving arms.
Ie insisted,in a grandfatherly way, that Chris should acconipany
him to Craigenfels for her vacation, and Sonsie entreated her
to consent. The poor girl desired so much to-see home sights
again, and get a breath of native air, to hug Rainbow, and be
cuddled by Del, and renew her Horseshoe pleasures, that she
was sorely tempted to brave her mother's displeasure, which
she felt sure would visit her: heavily, pelt, her with hard words,
at any rate, "nail her wi' a scriptur' ;" and a rernark of Uncle
27*

t           ,F{.
t            r'
t
r      t             .
4             y         i
t
e
R              !
)         r             E
1                           {( GF
F
1             I
!             !             f
r             t      uVl
f                             I
,1     ' i         J F r
li; I,
tf{1I      rV       (+    I    li


1",Z* AtZRJDA MAS'.RAIE."
Alec's finished her wagesinggbecause.'it chased-away a certain
dread she felt.
"Otho won't go  P'ye tried:my best ; but he is obstinate,
and talks Qf~lida, whichlis ysinply ridiculous. Florida after
Mxipcis skipn-milk after cream. He'd: much better go up to
Lake. Superior. orfHudson'S.Bay.- But he is as 'unmanageable
as a mustang., Aei in;Pta, let him. g&amp; where, he likes. No es
la miel ara la boca del asno. That means, Sonsie, ' Honey is
not for an=ass's mouth.;' and;we'll have Craigenfels all to our-
selves,;and. make ;exceeding merry without hm. Bertha is
going.; she.needls 'the. change, poor child. They will study her
to death. -PIm afraid, that sister of mine is as hard and persis.
tent as her young hopeful. And .now, Rdukie, I can't part
with you, your merry eyes and your helpful ways ; besides, we
are kinfolk, you- know:; and the young O'Roukes ought to be
at home with the Craigenfels."
"Yes, sir ; but not the' young Eagan's, and there's a power
of them.".'      '+'
_")1  shallimmediately proceeds to make acquaintance with
them; and you.iy peerless Esmralda must give us the plea-
sure of your presence. I insist upon that."
vam.sgrYtarefuse any thing to ye, Mr, Craigenfels;. but
' inpcssible .;WhyraJn at service, sir! 'As sooin as I've
put, 1fthes weeks along of,Miss Zoe,Imust go'baek to Mrs,
Biair.who:'neds me.: Sure I've played enough, anrd must
pjck "up m rworki4bravely, thankful for me bit of a good
"Ishall see,.to 411 that,' Rookie' Ruth will not let you say
nay to your old cousin.'  .:' ';.    :.'_.    .
Dontairplease 1I, should only be in the way of the
yougrlaies,.and no company atall"
Uncle Alec looked at Sonsie, whose head was up, and her

"LA ZE RiDA MIAS GRA Ve."

31

9

eyes fixed upon Belle Brandon's graceful figure, which she saw
through the half-open door, awaiting admission to Sabrina's
room, opposite.
" Ahi!" said he, "is it because you fear to intrude upon"--
"Upon yon young lady, sir?  No, indeed; 'tis little regard
I have for her. If she looks frosty as' snow,' I1can.,shian
like ice il the moonshine."
" Is Belle -Brandon going to Craigenfels ?" asked C
decided emphasis.
Yes, little pet ; she promised me last evening to be of our
party," replied Uncle Alec, much disturbed by the expression.
of the two honest faces he liked so well.
Bertha had turned the cold shoulder to the blonde that very
morning in the-most pointed manner, and -Sabrina was loftily
polite; and, as for Zoe, she snubbed her so viciously,. that the
innocent beauty's appealing blue eyes had haunted him for an
hour afterwards. None of them manifested the rapture he
expected, when he announced his victory over the reluctant
darling, who feared to trespass 'upon his hospitality; was too
poor to afford, the journey ; hesitated to leave her mission-
people, &amp;c. He could not understand why this lovely, -inno-
cent, artless, winning creature was so little liked among: his
young folks. It;troubled him.:
" Well, Roukie, we'll;see!" he 'concluded. "I don't admire
being put out when I have arranged a thing. We'll see.
Done hay gana, haymana."'
t             )  -

Ait:
I-i
F' ;jTii.
,     I
1.1ts~
4     11
K;  1    :
I '  I  ,     f


820

WHAT BECAME OF ZITELLA.

CHAPTER XXVIII.
WHAT BECAME OF ZITELLA.
HE golden moonlight streamed over the Bayo Her.
moso, and powdered its ripples with diamonds, which
sparkled in the eyes of a young man, who sat in the
shadow of an arbor of passion-vines, and struck the strings of a
zittern, to which he sang, in a rich, mellow voice, -
"Gentle Zitella, why shouldst thou fear ?
Love's ritornello tarry and hear."
"Hilario waits for me," said the Indian maid, hastening on
with springing step. Her rebozza half hid her face, and her
little hands fingered her rosary, of which she told the shining
beads, as she trod the winding path among the flower-laden,
odorous trees. She prayed for Senor Aleka, and for her lover,
Hilario,' witl whom she was about to spend an hour by the
sounding se. Prayers, mounting from pure souls, have wings
to cleave the skies. Ah, pretty Zitella, be fervent ; you have
need of heavenly help. There was tumult in the Hacienda.
The dogs were out, and the Dohle was running hither and
thither, giving tongue to his deep-mouthed bay.  The Indian
maid had been singing among her roses at eventide, and Uncle
Alec was sure he had seen her shadow on the white curtain
which hid her maiden's bower before he went to sleep, but now
she was gone -breakfast hour, and no Zitella.
George Blair, returning from the Romanza, had come upon
old yellow-skinned.Chapeta, counting gold pieces, beneath an
acacia, which she hastily covered with her petticoat, as she saw
his lengthening shadow in the moonlight, gliding toward her on

WH4AT BECAME OF ZITELLA.

321

the ground. The Spanish ship, so long moored.in Bayo Her..
moso, had disappeared. George took old Chapeta by her
skinny shoulders.
" Where's Zitella ?" demanded he.
"Gone to the devil, I hope," she answered, yelping with
laughter.
"Any news of the poor child ? " asked Uncle Alec, throwing
himself off his steaming bracador, and wiping his heated,
anxious face.
"I believe this Gorgon knows where she is," said George.
"Look at the gold she is hiding ! I caught her skulking among
the trees last night. She hurried out of my sight, and I re-
member thinking she looked as if she had just finished some
hag's work. Depend upon it, she knows what has become of
the simple child whom she hated."
"You, Chapeta!" said Uncle Alec, in surprise.
"Me, Senor," she answered, snarling, and showing her fangs.
"I count my gold. It amuses me when my work is done.
What care I for the silly donceleta? I have enough to do to
mind my kitchen. I shouldn't follow her, to kiss her foot, for
love of her eyes, like the young men who eat at your table,"
leering at George.
Hilario, gay in -his jaunty dress, came up in his carrafella,
humming his favorite song, " The night is not. darker than thy
raven hair," and he sought. with his piercing glances for the
little maid he hoped to find.
"Ah, Hilario, what have you done with Zitella ?" said Uncle
Alec. "Speak up, you rogtp  You need not be afraid to own
it, if you have gone and married her in . secret, though there
wasn't the least need for you to act a sly part. Have you
come to mke your peace, and getforgiven?"

r             I       '              1   (s   '1 ,i
.            t
A
f
(            i
!
i
}            k
I             !
I
r                 .
I
f
S
II                            }
i
i             !             r
i I;t                   ,      '   j


'I'

WHM BECAME 'OF T'EILA.

Though he talked in this strain, Uncle Alec saw nothing in
the young fellow's face to give him any hope.
"Zitella !" exclaimed Hilario, springing to the ground.
"What is this that el Seftor speaks ? What has happened?
Where is slze?&amp;.
" Come, .come, I heard you trolling out your favorite lure
last night, and amazingly well you did it. It .is not the first
time I've listened to your zittern, nor the first, either, that I've
seen Zitella steal out to meet you. I've had my eye: on you.
I knew she was' a -good child, and £U took you for an honest
fellow, hottempered, and a trifle quarrelsome, but honest ; and
.I-meant you should have her after a while. Come, where is
she ?".
" I do not know,:Seaor. 'I sang no songs last night. I was
over the cerros in the Hacienda-del Marie, and I come thence
but now."
"I amicertain I heard your, song last night, persisted Uncle
Alec
"Then it was .that *retch Pequillo 1 Cutses light on his
treacherous soul
Hilario sprang to;'his seat, and drove swiftly away.
"I'm afraid he's right," said George. - "I've seen that young
Spaniard following Zitella.:about,'holding her flowers-and chat-
ting. 1 wish I hadgiven more heed to him, but' somehow out-
ward things only:touch And vanish. 1-""
"Have you seen Otho this morning," asked Uncle Alec,
considering.
""Ha ha," laughed old Chapetg, "he knows where the girl
is hid ;'he knows.' I'll swear that. She prayed for him by the
shrine of the Roses, and she told his name with every bead. I
stole up behind her, and I'd.have'beaten her if he had :not
come by, and I know she wited there to meet him. Oh ! he

WHAT BECAME OF ZITELLA.

832

can tell you ; he can 'tell ; ast him- ask. the still man who
never speaks. Still water runs deep."
Uncle Alec was yet questioning George's face, with aston.
ished eyes, when a cry reached them, and men came running
swiftly.-
" Oh, Seuior 1 Water ! water in the mine !  Lost ! all
lost !"
He threw himself upon his bracador, and George hastened
away to saddle Nis, and the new calamity put Zitella out of
their thoughts. Don't you forget her, dear reader,, because we
will find her some day, and have a tale about her life and its
sad consequences.
They reached the -Romanza together, and found a crowd
about it.' The pepandores were talking and howling. A fright-
ful accident had occurred. A party of miners were- down at
their work, and had cut through' the chamber into another mine,
which was old and -undrained since the -time of the ancient
Mexicans, and the water rushing in had made quick way for
itself, and swallowed them up in its surging flood.
Our old friend Jason, of-the cars, of whose child Bertha took
such care that Rosenbloom journey, was administrador of this
Realito, and his face was very pale when they came up, and
he was tightening his belt, making ready to descend and search
the level.
"Mr. Groenveldt is down there, sir," said he, in a low voice,
to Uncle Alec.
"What ! Otho down there !"
"Yes, sir; he. went early this 'morning,' to inspect the Bo-
vieda, 'and I was looking for him up, when the wall gave way. I
am going to try once more to get down, but I'm afraid 'tis all
over with him, and the poor fellows too. 'The whole gang were
on, sir.

TTT
!         I jl     f
{        jF    x
5           !
F
!
1
!                d
1                I !     tf
T ?
I
t
!                  t
±     1
f
'                       i
I
I             S
k
1
,             P
r             3                   ,
I      t                  i
I4     '        '             1
,               I             I
i
f              r
'                 i           I{
i         I   "


/ WHAT7' 2?ECAME OF ZITELLA.

"Stand back, Jason," said George, putting a hand on .the ad.
ministrador's shoulder, and whirling him about. " This is my,
work."'
"I fear 'tis too late, Mr. Blair, and the walls keep crumb-
ling. There isn't a chance for the young gentleman."
"I'll go down and fetch Otho Groenveldt, alive or dead !"
and before Uncle Alec comprehended the look of hatred on
his massive face, he had begun the descent. Twelve hundred
steps, for in this mine the men reached their work by stairs,
.and went' down in gangs with lighted tapers in their hats, and
singing, as they descended, a morning hymn.
The frightful dash and roar of the waters below sounded in
his ears long before he reached the level, and corpses floated
up to his feet. His red "candle lighted only a little circle in
the thick darkness, and he shuddered as he recalled the scene
in the Realito, among the savage rats. He grasped eagerly
the -drifting bodies, and glared his candle in their ghastly faces,
seeking the man who had sent him from his home and broken
up his life. He listened, and, thought he heard a shout, and
then a splash, like one swimming, and in a moment a corpse
came to his hand, yet warm with its last heart-throb. It was
the last of the poor miners, and the cry he heard was his scream
of agony when he dashed out hislife against the rocks. George
plunged into the seething flood, and ploughed his way among
the wrecks of the traims, the stones, and the ghastly dead, keep-
ing his head well up, and every sense alert. He followed the
gallery to a little Bovieda, like that where he stumbled upon.
the poor pegador, and there, in that innei dungeon, he discov-
ered a red light, and getting carefully around to it, he found the
man he had perilled his life to seek, clinging to a pillar which,
though trembling, still stood the shock of the waters. Otho,
who had been standing close to the cutting, inspecting the

seams and cracks, trickling with water-drops, and who had his
arm raised and his face lifted, pointing out a little spirming
stream, which showered spray upon them, when suddenly the
waters rushed through, and swept them  into a confused
heap against the opposite wall, and hurled them hither, and
thither, and in a few minutes Otho 'was surrounded by the
dead, who reached out to him with their tossing, limp arms,
and the glare of his lamp showed .him their fixed, staring eyes.
The urgingg wave beat against him, and though he kept his hold
of the rocky pillar, he was counting the moments of his life, for
he had a deep gash in his leg, torn by a ragged rock, and his
blood was welling from the severed artery. His relaxing hands
refused longer to grasp their support,' and he dropped with a
splash into the torrent, so close to-George as nearly to extin-
guish his torch, which flickered and sputtered, and then flared
up again, and the giant caught his enemy around the waist, and
made for the staircase. It was dreary work, among the float-
ing sticks and dripping human forms, but he reached it at last.
Only six hundred steps now, the rest being submerged-; but
enough, with a dead man to carry. He stopped and took his
burden by the arms, and. swung him upon his back, and com-
menced the ascent slowly. Slowly he struggled on, and as his
strength gave way he reminded himself who was the burden he
was bearing up to the light of day, and steadied his muscles,
and clinched-his teeth, and toiled on with fresh resolution. He
neared the top, and staggered.. He tried to wet his lips with
his parched. tongue, and to shout for help, but his dry throat re-
fused to utter a sound. His head spun round like a top. He
planted hi feet mechanically, and his trembling. knees bent
beneath him. Daylight ! and only thirty steps more.! It might
as well have been five hundred, for he reeled, fell ! No ; he
caught a rod projecting from the slimy rock, which held in place
28

WI/AT BE C4ME OF ZI TELLA.

324

325


32  WHA4 7BECME OF ZZTEA-                                                      827

.WHAZ'BECAMS 'OF ZZ'TE LLA.

the narrow stair, and help was at hand. Strong arms seized
him, and the two were soon laid softly down upon the green
Bermuda: grass at the top of- the shaft, with pallid faces and-
shut eyes..
A watcher kept vigil in the sick-room. -George Blair hat
.quickly: recovered his" manhood,-and. he was nursing Otho
through the fearful fever which wag burning up his blood. He
hadalready learned a: secret -his enemy's love for Christabel
---and'it added f el to the flanie:of his. hatred. He heard her
name coupled with his own-Ruthie's, and: endearing words and
loving epithets mingled with both, and be believed him a double
villain,.and longed for the.hour to arrivewhen he could tell the
sick man how he: despised and loathed him - -when he could
strike ;his face --purn hWn with his foot; and he .attended him
carefully, watching;every breath with greedy anxiety,hoarding up
his hate.     ..
T is: sad aightosee.strong man pulled down by disease;
his-wil.a nullityphis., reasomntottering; when the keepers. of the
house tremble.and the grasshopper, is a burden.,,.'As.for Mr.
Othahe might have; died ons the Bermuda grass,had it not been
for an .old :Indian docfr, ho was prowlingaround the Ro-
'inanza waitingfor something to turn up, who took up the sev-
ered artery and. tied it,'.and bound the. limb with cataplasms,
andhe attended him with his root and herb simples, and I am not
sure that be. did, not: work in a few Aztec 'charms. If so, they
did the± patient no fharn, and he mended 'apace. : The fever
tookleave;his weary, brain got rest, ;and his, tossing limbs re-
pose,.and he knew his, nurse; and begged for peaches, and fol-
lowed his emotions like a sick girl, and took the: bitter bark and
'orange-leaf tea without a murmur. He was submissive.
" Only half: a' pomegranate,; George  Just' one more chir-

moga. I couldn't treat you so. I'm starving, and you give
ne no food, and you grudge me a smile."
George looked keenly at the pale, wasted fellow, whose dom-
inant huniors were 'so subdued, end while he' hated to supply
all his wants, he rejoiced, because his tine was -coming. This-
sick man, who depended upon his care, whom disease had so
robbed of his masterful pride, would be strong again presently,
and then-
Hilario brought in a letter, and handed it to Otho.
"Any news of Zitella,' yet, boy ?" asked George, kindly.
"I shall never know the fate'of my pretty betrothed."
He went mournfully away.
SPoor fellow I he (carries a sore ieart," 'said Otho. " That
villain, Pequillo, :deserves':hanging: I hope he will get his
desserts.";
" If all villains of his stamp were hung, I would toss away my
physic,: for my: occupation would be g one," said-George, with a
sneer most unbecoming his good, loyal .face, as he placed a
luscious peach in his patient s hand.
Otho studied him an instant before he' opened his letter; but
he was not strong enough to feel inclined to ask questions, or
follow any train of "thought, and he looked at the missive 'he
held in-his hand.'
"From my mother," 'said he." He read a few lines, and laid
it down, and shut his eyes, and 'a pained look crept into his
'face, and when he opened there again he fixed them upon
George, who was absorbed in his thoughts, before he applied
himself to it afreshe
" This concerns you deeply, good friend," said he, holding it
out, with a faint smile. 'His "voice was low and soft, and his
sunken eyes were full of' tears  (Sickness makes us weak.)

.A

!y    h
i              1IFF   M1
i            ,
t              i{     r1
i                 ,,
i 't I',
'            r
'i
f   i
i
t               "
i
i
i
t

j' j
:;     ,   ,    k  ,
s
,  ,    -,
f
. ,
!         r
,,          +  ,i
f     " i ;       ;
,.  .
,
,4-
,t        "
I
, ,
'       I
, ,;r
i  l     i     ,
=        ?  i    i
{     ;     I  '
E
1  .

.26.

327

A


328       WHAT BECAME OF ZITEZLA.

He kept silence till George had read the letter, though his face
worked and flushed.
"Come, dear, good, conscientious fellow, you've been nurs.
ing a man whom you believed a scoundrel. I wonder you
didn't leave me to my fate, yonder in the mine, and I, poor
short-sighted fool, I took you for an unprincipled rogue, who
had left behind him a rare pearl of a wife for greed of gold.
Well, we were .neither of us to blame. We can't take any more
out of ourselves than God has put into us. I little thought,
when I tried to get a sight of Ruthie's face, and offer help and
sympathy, that I was the cause of all her sorrow.  Come,
George-friend, preserver-take my hand, and believe me
when I say that I love your Ruthie with the pure love I give
my sister, and I love you dearer than a brother. I know how
rich 'and bountiful you are, in every thing that makes a man."
The giant dropped the letter, which was a detailed account
of the trouble -George's disappearance, and Ruth's life and
sufferings, and spirited comments upon.the whole  and a recom-
mendation to her son to endeavor to get some plan afoot, by.
which the wedded pair might be brought into harmony again,
and to bestir himself vigorously in the matter, since he had
been used as an instrument of their unhappiness, and some
vacillating opinions of the character of Belle Brandon, whiffling
between the belief that she was a demon in the shape of
female loveliness, and an idea that she might be, after all, only
a thoughtless, fun-loving girl, giddy and rash, carrying frolics to
the verge of crimes.
George sank upon his knees by the bed-side, and his great
frame. shook with his sobs. "My poor, poor'Ruthie ! how she
has suffered !" were the first words he uttered. Half an hour
later,. he left his patient, composed and quiet, and the two men
were friends for life  such loving, tender friends that people

wondered when, by chance, they saw them exchanging hugs
and kisses like women.  No matter how proud and distant
Otho was to others, George got-always soul-full tenderness.
The giant came out upon the broad veranda, where Uncle
Alec was smoking, with his feet upon Dohle, while the tame
tapir's calf rooted his hand.
"Mr. Craigenfels," said he, like a school-boy asking a holi-
day, " I want to go home."
" Had pie enough ?" asked Uncle Alec, laughing. He re-
ferred to an old story he was fond of telling, about a -bashful
lover, who went to visit his sweetheart, and instead of making
love, set in a corner and twiddled his thumbs. Finding she
could get nothing out of him, Miss Nancy bethought herself to
feed the animal, and she plied him with pie, which he took be-
cause he was too diffident to refuse. He finished one ; she
brought another ; he swallowed the last piece, stuffed to the
lips, but still thankful to have exhausted the supply, and wiped
his mouth on his bandana, when lo1 she appeared on the
threshold bearing a third f He stumbled to his feet, toes in,
elbows. out, and his face screwed into a piteous snarl. "I don't
want no more pie1 'I want to go home 1".said he.
George was too deeply moved to smile at Uncle Alec's fun,
who looked at him observing how all alive he was, and the old
fellow felt happy. His troubles and worries were about to end.
And when the giant said,-"I want to see Ruthie, sir. I" must
start immediately," he was sure that a man who could speak
his wife's name with'uch a thrill as that, must be a good fellow,
ready to take up all his duties and responsibilities; and the
doubts and fears he' had been, carrying, a' heavy, wearisome
load, dropped off like Christian's urden. His vicarious suf-
ferings were needed no more. Ruth had a good husband, and
28*

t           t    i
i           t
LL
i
4
1
r
1
Fr'
'         "'  i
1
f            i
i
i
tt
"              j           1
i
}
t
t
r
_        _     tE
1  ,f
I
I
I  !            i '
r
t
,            t          -

WI AT BECAME OF ZITELLA.       329

. '
;t#


330        WHiT BECAME OF, ZITELLA.

WHAT BECAME OF ZZTELLA         3

George a good wife, That one, answer .proved it, backed by
the true: soul which set throned in the young giant's eyes.
" Well, I callthat odd, now ! Here you have been all these
months, and nothing could I get out of you, for all my cross-
questioning.", (Deeply as George was stirred, he could not
help smiling at the idea of cross-questioning from his genial
host, who had so much respected his young friend's reticence
as never to make one inquiry.) "And here you burst out all
of a sudden, and you must. go home.!"
"I have been a deuced fool, Mr. Craigenfels ! and my wife
is an angel -- a poor broken-hearted girl!, but I can't talk about
it- yet.. When I haveset things straight, and am my own man,
in my own place again, I'll tell you the whole -story; but I
must start directly, sir.".
" We'll all go, my boy," said Uncle Alec, cheerily, tossing
away his segar. "I am delighted to hear you say so. Otho
has got enough of Mexican mining for the present, and I should
like an excuse to get back to Craigenfels, and-will be off in a
couple of days. We'll swing our sick man into a hammock,
and put him between four stout fellows, and.you and I will lake
our horses, and by the time we reach the post he'll be a new
creature, and the voyage wm  set him, up completely : and, by
the way, what do you suppose was in that box we took out of
his pocket, afteryou fished him up ? ,Look here - not that it
makes a great deal of difference, only you might like to get your
title from your, father better than me --- that Romanza, where you
went fishing,, like St. Peter, and caught your man, is yours of
right., Otho picked this box out of a queer chest he found in
the Bovieda, all rust and falling to pieces. Mercy only knows
the motive of the hider -- some deviltry, very likely ; but there
it is ! You have, often told me your father sunk his property
in an old silver mine, and that the title was stolen from him"

uSo he did, sir ; but the title had lost all value, for the
machinery was too light for. the work, and he had sunk his
money in the nasty hole, which was as full of black mud and
dirty water as it is to-day."
" Very likely, George. I know quite well that 'much coin
is hushed, within the hollow mine of earth at present, whichwas
sucked down by bad management or ripe dishonesty.; But=
know how the Realito pays for working, and what engines we
have to pump it clear again. You had best continue good Ja-
son in his office during your absence, and you may draw on me
for funds to drain, and start afresh.. I fully believe the mine is
exhaustless,,and I must congratulate you upon such a Romanza,.
well named prosperity. Only, be mercifulas to arrears, good
George, because you must consider that for ten years I have
believed the property my own."
"Am. I a rich man, Mr. Craigenfels ?  Oh, Ruthie ! dear,
good, loving Ruthie.! let me live to make up to her a little of
the misery I have caused her, and the bitter, wicked wrong I
have done."
George,. the athlete, ho towered above his fellows, who re-
joiced in his, strength, covered his face. with his hands, and
sobbed like a boy. And Uncle Alec, who generally had coun,
sel and cheeriness for everybody, was fain to keep silence in
his presence, and to "wipe his weeping eyes."  And so it was
that Otho met Chris, at Wallack's, where they played Rosedale,
wearing Max's bracelet of sapphires -upon her arm.

331

,
f'     P
(','
f'
t           ,
' .
i
f,
,
t "
yyy z
F
 i
i; iE


132    THE WIDOW HUGEL Y EN7O YS HERSELF.
CHAPTER XXIX.
THE- WIDOW HUGELY ENJOYS HERSELF.
OHN    PEEBLES declined Uncle Alec's invitation, so
pressing, to accompany the young ladies to Craigen.
fels. The poor young fellow had asked a question in
the great drawing-room of the St. James, and got his answer;.
and after a sleepless night, he had made up his mind to try to
feed his soul on Greek roots, and take the professorship which
awaited him  at , the end of his college course, and eschew
women forever. Chris went up and played once more, Max's
song-
"There wandered a lady upon the strand,
Her fair hair bound with a golden band."
And there was a little sore spot in her heart as she remem.
bered him, the yellow-haired, composed and stately, whom she
could have liked so much for a friend ; and the-last notes of
the refrain still trembled on her lips, when Otho Groenveldt
came striding in, his overcoat upon his arm, and valise in hand.
He scanned 'her gray suit, shepherdess's hat, embroidered reti-
cule, and the dainty gloves she had laid upon the piano, while
her fingers were busy with their farewell to the St. James, and
said,.-
" How much time have we, Miss -Goldsmith?"
" Titne for what, sir?",she asked, in alarm.-
" Before starting, of course. Perhaps you are not aware
that I intend to make one of your party to Craigenfels. In-
deed, I did not decide it till about fifteen minutes ago."
Chris's trembling fingers went astray among the keys, and
she gazed at the blank wall before her, determined to exhibit
no emotion. '

THE WIDOW HUGELY EN-OYS HERSELF.           3
"That was a very old melody you were singing -not-to be
found in young ladies' music books nowadays, I think. May
I ask you where you learned it?"
Chris looked at him. , He had come around, and was leaning
on the piano, in front of her, and she felt sure- he had heard
Max sing Sintram's song. His face said as much, antd 'she re-
plied quietly, giving, the while, close attention to the sharps of
the arpeggios she was trying,-
" Dr. Max sung it here one morning, while he was waiting
to see me."
Zoe came in, chatting to Sabrina and Bertha, Peter fol-
lowing with bags and parcels, which he deposited on a sofa,
and they all compared their watches.
"Just in time for a nice song, Bertha," said Zoe. " Come,
Chris, give place, if you please. This cantatrice is about to
render the Tyrolean echo and jodel."
"I think Bertha will not choose to sing in a hotel parlor,"
said Otho, quickly.
"Whynot, pray, when she has her dearest friends for audi-
ence ?" demanded Zoe, facing about.
"That is a whim peculiar to my super-fastidious brother,"
answered Bertha, with' a mollifying laugh; "he is so afraid I
shall be "conspicuous, and that would entail the probability, you
see, of his being pointed out as my kinsman."
Zoe wheeled about, uttering a petulant exclaation, which
was not flattering to the young doctor. And Christabel 'rose
from the piano, looking and .feeling offended with the -pointed
reproof, and withdrew to the window, where she 'was soon
joined by Sonsie, who studied her face, seeking the 'happiness
she lacked'the power to bestow upon her "white angel,"'whom
she ardently desired to see always in harmony with herself.
She discovered only stormy discontent and unrest' there now,

i  ' r  k   'v
;    },_ Vi
yr  t  '  t'
f   (     ' i
41+'1 1 r.
'  t
.     '
'
.
,
" r.
.;
E Fi
;
F
i

{
''   i
'i  ' I
, ,   f
~
ii        i   '   ii S
1.            i   {r    f
{   I ;   i   '    '  i   s
,,  !        i  ,
fit, ,   . ,  ; !
,F  ' '
,,     ; ;  +          r
';1;i +; 4' ,;+
4 j t ,,   r t  , r!
l f ?; 1!E hip!.,  'i  t


334    TZr .Wznow HUGELY EN y YS HERSELF.
for Chris was much disturbed, and would gladly have withdraws
from the party, and stolen back to Rosenbloom; and she felt it
hard that Otho should join the company, and make her talk and
meet him aidAlook at him, just as his humor dictated, besides
bringing her to hook so autocratically yforher. actions, which was
certainly no business of his; and: then she heard Belle Brandon
conversing gayly with Uncle Alec, who had been to fetch her
and just come in with her on his arm, and in high feather. And
poor ,Chris felt sure that. the nice month she had hoped for
was spoiled, and the object of her thoughts came up and
offered her a couple of books which he extended with a smile.
"A pair of old friends, 'believe, Miss Goldsmith. You se-
lected them as compagnons d voyage last year,. and I surrept.
tiously appropriated them ; which theft I did not remember,
however, tillit was to late' too make restitution."
Pollock and Homer! her father's books. When 'she left
Roaring River, en route for, school, she; took them as light read-
ing, to wile the tediousness of the journey. - How should she
comport herself towards this" quiet, grave man, who was armed
cap-a-pie, and who so thoroughly knew all her 'vulnerable
points?
"You have had' some experience since then, and what was
so exceedingly enjoyablefronhits novelty, maybe less absorb-
ing to-day. Will.you permitne to be -the guardian 'of your
leaped authors till you need them ?"
"-Thanks,  Ir.roenfeldt. I am an independent female
now, and: fully. capable_ofetakipg gare of my- possessions.
It will not.trouble you,.nor give you another opportunity to
make such a dexterous side-thrust at my carelessness:
Otho flushed up to the rats of: his thair and 10led leply
hurt.        '

TIlE WIDOW , U7CEL 1NJ'YO VSIERSELF.

35

" Indeed, Miss Goldsmith, I had no such intention. Pray
do me the justice to believe it."
Now he had.got an advantage, and he reaped a benefit' from.
it, and made the most of it, for Chris'was so sorry and ashamed
of her rude speech, that' she carried herself quite humblydur-
in the half hour of waiting.
Zoe came up and thrust 'her hand into' Sonsie's, and 'pulled
her away into a corner, and'- Jan 'joined them, and the three
stood whispering over a magnificent set of opals which the lit-
tle Gypsy had purchased for Sabrina,"out of revenge," she. said,
"for calling me names," and Belle floated up.to them
" Excuse 'me, Zoe; cherie, but 'I think I 'have' dropped my
mouchoir on the stairs ; may I' send your maid tofetch it?"
Jan colored indignantly,'and Zoe haughtily replied,-
"If you mean my friend Sonsie, with whom you see. me
busily talking, I must tell you that I cannot spare her 'for any
errands, and you-had better go yourself, perhaps."
Sonsie was regarding steadfastly Jan Vedder during this col-
oquy, and trying to discover whether any spark of his love for
the blonde still remained, and' she felt quite :sure that itas
dead, yea, and forgotten; andfor some unaccountable reason,
she was glad to know it, and her spirits rosewith the knowl-
edge ; and she laughed ierrily, as shereplied,-
"Ah, wishal 'Miss Zoe, ye must ntdisown aliaid of"yer.
own hiring  'I am glad to be it. fYe are as :prettyias hads,
and as sweet as a primrose, and dnibat'ind runnng for Miss
Belle, either. Sure, I've ttrotted the tw6 futs ff me, a scord of
times, up stairs and down, at her bidding.. She was always the
glib one for getting work out of: otherpeople and sparing her
own strength. Och 1 Miss: Belle, I -beg pardon, but is it a
freckle that ye're getting on ye're bit ofnose ?"
Jari laughed, and said,-

1 '; 1
i
a
1            !     k,
1            4     Lt 1
R    I+t y
r                        I     kkfF
1 , F{f
t I
4
'             k
s
r j       I
k k}
1{   i
f     {!i
{
'            , i        I


$36    THE" WIDOW HUGELY ENJOYS HERSELF.
"Oh, do not disturb yourself, Sonsie. I'll hunt the handker.
chief for Miss Brandon, and of course. I shall claim the usual
reward at the close of the little game. It is out of fashion to
do something for nothing."
Belle took in the relative situation of the parties at once, and
foresaw plenty of nice opportunities for enjoying her favorite
amusement. -Jan Vedder's ring was on her finger at that
moment. She had nearly forgotten the young man's existence,
till she met him so gushingly in the St. James parlor. She had
her hands full with an absorbing scheme, but she reserved some
cutting flings for him.
Chris's conversation in the window was so absolutely enjoya-
ble, that she 'forgot her vexation, her past, every thing, in the
pleasure -of hearing Otho talk, and it was- not till they were
summoned to the carriage that her dreary loneliness settled
down afresh upon her. Belle remarked, gushingly,-
"It really. seems like old times, to- see you two together. We
used to call them Pyramus and Thisbe, Mr. Craigenfels, such
enwrapped talkers as they were."
The beautiful blonde was thoughtful, full five minutes after
she had got her seat by Uncle Alec in the car, trying to solve,
the meaning of the look she received from Otho, in exchange
for her bit of innocent waggery, and Chlri' was effeetually si-
lenced. Little Mrs. Vedder had overworked in New York, and
was ill all the first day of the journey, and lay on her big boy's
arm, her eyes shut and her forehead contracted with pain; and-
really and truly, Jan had never been so interesting to Sonsie as
while she watched'him petting his pretty young mother so ten-
derly, his soft hat pushed back over his thick curls, and his
thoughts busy about her comfort,. and she readily ran his er-
rands and felt absolute-symripathy with:them both.. , They were
nearing Roaring River now, and Chrxis had been to the full ast

THE WIDOW HUGEL Y ENJO YS HERSELF.

uneasy and uncomfortable as even Belle could have desired.
After watching for some time the antics of a couple of thil.-
dren, who were jubilant over their journey, she went across ard
sat down by Uncle Alec.
"I wish I was a little girl, going-somewhere, like those over
"there. They make frolics out of every thing. Their rising up
and sitting down is funny, and the absolute possession of that
window to open and shut every other minute-is an untring
joy.,
." You, pet ! why, you are a little girl."
" Oh, no ! not careless and gay like those."
" That won't come back in this world, pet. AMhen we get to
heaven we shall all be young."
" I don't see how that can- be, Uncle Alec. I can't ever
know any less than I know now, iior. feel any less; and as for
being light-hearted, the time for me to be pleased-with a rattle,
and tickled with a straw, is gone forever, anywhere, Vn sure.
It is the soul, singing for gladness, that I long for."
Uncle Alec put his arm around her, and leaned her -head
against his shoulder.
"There, there, rest a little, pet. You are going somewhere
you are going home with me."
After a struggle with herself; and some reflection, she whis-
pered in his ear. He took off his Scotch cap, and stroked his
long, silky beard, looking down into her eyes, before {he re-
plied, -
" Certainly not, my queenie! I'll drive you down to-mor-
row; or you may ride Zephyr'; but yotu are iny guest for'his
vacation. I shall hold onto my prerogative."
She 'dropped -her dace,'and her eyes filled.  She was trying to
cast from her this sense of quiet security, and kind, atteritie
regard she was sure of in his h useand  akiTgupa stl
29

33-7

1
'     ,'.
~ ;,
t , 'k
,,
'
'    ,f '' '  ' f
i"
.    ,,
.  ,,  !
, .
i
i , .
'    -        ({
f  ,'  '  ,     t
it       r
_  "'   i  ,  ,'  'tf
; 1  ;I   i i  f
i  ,  i4  ,
iat :ii1 ;l I::  i!

I t j 13rd
f1r
:TTi


238    THE WIDOW HUGEL Y EN7OYIS HERSELF.
tion she knew was needful, and her red lips settled into their
firmest contour; but she could, not quite speak it yet, her true
reasons were so very difficult to put into words. - The woods
and rocks sped past them, and Roaring River pealed his reso.
nant song, and a mile or two more would bring them to the
station.
"I must, Uncle Alec," said Chris, raising her head, and look.
ing into his good,. kind. face. " You 'will not be angry, I know,
even if I fail to keep my promise to you. I fear I shall have
very chilly welcome, but that is the place for me."
The genial old fellow followed a stray eye-beam, which lighted
upon the grave young doctor, absorbed in his "Eclectic," his
face stern and unsmiling, and he made up his mind to ask him.
a straight question, as soon as he got the opportunity. In the
meantimelhe said caressingly,---
" Must you, little pet? Well, well, we'll see about it. You
shall stay just where you can most enjoy your play-time. I'll
manage to get you pretty often, and you shall have Zephyrfor
yours. Either way, I'm glad you like Zephyr, pet, and I shall
,admire you on his back, I know. Your papa talked much about
your horsemanship, and he meant you to have a beauty of your,
own, and a span for your curricle. I shall have to attend to
those things as soon as you leave school.  Il be your papa.
Oh dear ! I didn't mean to make you cry. here, there! don't-
spoil your pretty eyes. We'll have a good little time. Here
we are. Now thent"
Belle exulted openly when she heard the order given to drive
to Brookside. She had- tried many ways of ascertaining just
how the party was to be disposed of. She had an idea that
Chris and Sonsie were going up to Craigenfels, and she wanted
a clear field for her "little game," therefore she was delighted to
find that they were to be dropped on the way, and she counted

THE WIDOW HUGELY EN'OYVS .HERSELF.          83)
Bertha as a mere nobody, "She's so mopy and poky," said
she.
It was just at evening, misty and quiet, when the Celtic lassie
followed Chris into the carriage, after bidding a meiry good-
night to Jan and his mother, and refusing lightly their offers of
assistance, and gayly parrying their pressing invitation to ac-
company them to Brookedge, "where," said Mrs. Vedder,
" there's a nice room, all in white, looking out to the river and
the boat-house, that would just suit you."
"Many thanks, ma'am," replied Sonsie ; "me service bein'
up wid Miss Zoe, I am just after biddin' her good-by, and I'll
go back to me old mistress till school-time comes ; but it is very
kind of ye, and I'm iver so glad I went in yer company. I've
got a deal of idication amongst all the teachin' things.. And
Mr. Jan too ; I think you've got a little, also, sir, and I'll run
down in the morn to Mrs. Slocum's, and inquire how comes on
the siven children we sent her. Wasn't it a brave letter that
he, wrote you, sir ?  Oh! I like Captain Slocum!"
Sonsie let Chris out of her arms when the carriage stopped,
and kissed her hand as she bade her good-night, and Uncle Alec
took her up the long avenue.
"I don't fancy this break-up in my plans, child, at all, but
I'll not say 'n  to Fred's daughter, if she were as full of
whims as a ros  of leaves, though it may be you are right.
There is a duty you owe your mother, and you are a good little
girl, to be willing to put yourself outside of all the frolics up
there, so as to fulfil it."
" Oh, Uncle Alec ! It isn't that," stammered Chris, who
felt that she did not deserve his praise, "but-I cannot tell
you indeed."
She lifted the lafand they walked through the wide .hall
into the old oak parlor, where she and Otho had passed so

s      4  "
f  ,T n
1 !a
t   S
t j   
Imo,
t  i     G
Vol
i            t.

'f
;;      1  1           i
i!, ,   ,'4; ;,
'tV1  ir  ;Ia  ;l;l i .


340   THE WIDOW ZIUGEL Y ENO YS HERSELF.
many pleasant hours, where Chandy had been so kind and so
tormenting, and the place was full of them. There was not an
article of furniture but spoke of those last months, so. complete,
and from which she had drifted so far away.
The widow sat before a little table, a pencil in her hand, at
work upon some papers, statements, and bonds, which she hud-
dled into;her big Bible as she heard the approaching footsteps.
"I've o ine, home, mother !" said Chris, feeling the glamour
of her pareit's presence, as if she were a child under the iron
rule once more ; " I've come home; will you-not give me .a
little kiss, and say you are glad to see me?"
" The land sakes alive !" ejaculated the fond mother, jerk-
ing her head back from her child's proffered lips. "Glad ! I
don't tell no lies. What're you home for ? I should admire
to know! Walkin' in unbeknown, like a strollin' tramp, this
time o'night. Well !- been turned out, o' school?. If you have,
you needent come for me to take yer part. I shan't on prin-
ciple."
"It is vacation time, mother.: All the girls were coming,
and I-did want so much to see the old place,' and Zoe is going
to g  married. I hope 'you won't mind. I'm not going to
1ay long. I have not done wrong, have I?
"Done wrong   Yes, you have. What b    ss had you to
be galavanting off without my leave ?  Diden tell you to stay
where you was till you'd got enough on't'? "
.Yes, mother; that is, I saw Chandy' letters. You never
wrote to me, you know, and I did tot mein to disobey, but
they urged me so much. Don't take it "hard. This is Uncle
Alec, mother. Youhaven't spoken to him' 'yet He's been
very good to me."
Humphf' I want to know.I 1Du te ." said the widow
sourly, eying the old gentleman.'

- THE WIDOW HUGELY ENOVS 'HERSIF. 341
"Yes, madam.   Good-evening, madan. 'I brought your
daughter," said Uncle Alec, waving his Scotch cap indig-
nantly at her, "and I propose to see her'safely returned among
her friends in due time. Her feeling"of respectful duty to you
-- a feeling which I never honored in her as I do at this moment
- a most remarkable emotion, madain -I say, her respectful
duty to her mother interfered-with my plan, which. to.give
the over-worked scholar a little pleasure up at  aigenfels.
She, good child, insisted upon coming to her fath  :house in-
stead of mine, which is also hers any time she will' do me' the
pleasure to use it."
" The land sakes. What highfaluten folderols!" answered
the widow, glowering unpleasantly at the old fellow's silken
beard and ruddy face, and his bright eyes, which were just now
kindled with peculiar light. " I've heard folks talk before, and
you are very much mistaken, sirI can tell you-! She'hain't
got no, ight just now, except where she come from, and if it's
your d in's- tollin' on her off, I'll thank you to mind your own
business, and leate my girl alone. As for ,yor, miss, you need-
ent think I'm going' -to connive' at your trampin' up anc down
the country this style. Where d'ye get all yer money?"
Chris was looking at the widow during this affectionate
speech, and sec _ wonderingg if she had always been so ugly.
But the perfectionist had progressed in her absence,-and had
got so far in her sort of piety at to reject all outward adorn-
ment, all ekings out of humanity's failures, such as false teeth,
and false hair, and event her beloved spit-curls were pasted
back, and -her scanty gray locks were dragged together and tied
and heldin prim-durance by a horn-comb, and she wore no bows
or brooches, and her face was as hard. as a limestone rock, and
her lips were thinner and bluer than ever, and her beads of
eyes glowed like fiery coals. She was inly rejoicing4that Chris
29    /

,, .
I ,'  .
. i

'!
'    -
,i
i
i
,
.
r
-
.
t    ,
r
;
t          E
1
!
i
'   _       r
,t
,
,
,;        -
.            -
,            ;
f
,
t
i
'               !
,t
' i
E  +         ,
i              i
'
( i  ,
;               i
,  ,
I
..      ,


84  THE WIDOW HUGELY EN7OYVS HERSELF.
had returned' unbidden. She had got her now at her mercy,
no Chandos to interfere and be troublesome or loving to the
poor child, who would be forced to take up just such a life as
she chose to throw at her, and as she mentally said, while de-
vouring her with glances, "to put her through a course of
sprouts;" and also she had an opportunity to snub her hus.
band's  ::friend, who was cousin to Elinor Walsingham, and
give him  good dig for meddlin'."
" Well, -eoff your bonnet - do! You was in a dreadful,
strait to get away from here, and you went, and I shall be
thankful if I don't find out you've been disgracin' me some way.
I don't caccalate to spend no more money on you, no way.
You'll come smack down to common doin's and common folks,
after this 1"
" Must I leave school, motherr" asked Chris, in alarm.
" Don't say that. I cannot do it."
" Can't ? how're you goin' to help yourself? You have left
it, and I rather guess I can keep you, if I set out to."
" It appears that you do not quite comprehend the situation,
madam," said Uncle Alec, getting red in the face -through his
superhuman efforts to keep cool.
"This is vacation-time, when the young ladies visit their rel-
atives, and make merry among them, enjoyig the sweets of
home."
" I'll sweeten it for her ! She won't want no merlasses."
The widow smiled, and snapped her eyes, and Uncle Alec
burst out, -
"Ye gods and little fishes! I don't wonder poor'red died!
Such an infernal -" and without- giving Chris time to think,
he tucked her under his arm and dragged her off. "Good-
night, mnadam. You'll hear from mne to-morrow," he called
out, as he absolutely ran down the walk, and pushing the af-

THE WIDOW HUGELY Y ENJOYS HERSELF.           33
frighted girl into the coach, he was just about to get in himself,
when he saw the driver leaving the trunk according to direc-
tions, and he dashed out after him.
"Here, you fellow ! fetch away that luggage. It don't be-
long here. Craigenfels is the place," and he followed the
grumbling hackman back to the house to make sure his orders
were obeyed.
"Let that there box be ! and take yourself off,"'screamed
the wvidow ; "and you, Christabel, you come rightback into
the house. What d'ye mean ! trampin' off along of that strange
man ? Ain't you ashamed ?"
As the driver said afterwards, when relating the story in the
stable office, "The old beauty sot down on the trunk, and I
thought I'd let her sot, and I did."
"Thank Heaven 1"You are a strange woman, madam.
Whatever sort of man I may be, Fred's daughter has got
friends. She shall not stop here, to be brow-beaten and ill
treated, while Craigenfels stands on yonder hill; and as for the
box, you can sit there till morning, if you like. There are dry
goods enough in Millville to fill another, I suppose, and if not,
we'll get over a lot from Paris. I wish you a very good even-
ing, madam."
The widow was triumphantly belligerent. She had alarge
amount of pungent juices hoarded up, withered as she looked,
and of the bitterest sort. In fact, they had found no natural
outlet since her daughter's departure, and she was enjoying
herself hugely.
"What have you got to say about it ? If you had wanted to
order children roind, you'd orter got married, and had some
of yer own. My girl's come back of her own accord, and: you
just empty her out of that there 'tea, double-quick.  She'
shall go right straight to work."


 THE WIDOW IUGELYV ENJOYS HERSELF.
'' She shan't," said Uncle Alec. "She shall not be forced
ito a life she pines under. Don't lay any such unction to
Y ur soul."
"9She -shall ! "
"wShe shan't/"
-SHALL1"
"SHE SHAN'T!"
Chris could only guess the tenor of this, pleasant dialogue,
as she laysobbing in Sonsie's arms, not daring to go back, and
not daring to go on. Uncle Alec came striding down the ave-
nue, pulled open the door, shut it with a slain-bang, and threw
himself upon the cushion.
"Oh, Uncle Alec ! how dreadful this is. Do let me get-
out. , I must not go with you. Oh, why did I come at all."
"Don't take on, pet.) You have done nothing wrong ; it is
no crime to come home to your father's house, to your mother.
Cheer up, queenie, and forget the last hour. I declare I am
as hot as the blazes [fanning himself.] Such interviews are.ex.
hausting ! We will have a magnificent vacation in. spite of the
-everybody."
This was a very mild ending of the old. fellow's sentence,
compared with what rose to his lips ; very, indeed.
They stopped at the Horseshoe, and Sohsie, who, it seemed,
must have bestowed no end of her magnetism upon her "white
angel,". who was composed, and comforted by her companion-
ship, impressed a final kiss upon the hand Ae. held, and mur-
mured a fervent prayer over it, and then jumped -out into the
darkness, promising to come up on the morrow,-and she and
Uncle Alec stood on the porch waiting for admission. - -
"Roukie, it seems. not fair for you to cut loosefrom-s in
ti _way .a.d leave poor _little pet, who needs you. She had

THE WIDOW HUGELY ENJ/O YS -HERSELF          445
a tough -interview, I can tell yon, with that old .lady. I wish
I could make you see your way clear to keeping with. us. I
know it would be, of no use to coax, unless you feel the pro-
priety of the act."
"Indeed, then, I think I'm not to get in here at all!" an-
swered Sonsie, peering under the curtain. The house is si-
lent, and even the dog is away. I wonder what ever it can
mean. Miss Ruthie usen't at all. to go abroad at night."
"Nothing alarming, I dare say.  Perhaps some business
took her to Toptown. Her money is deposited there, I
know ; but it is evident the place is empty, so you will be
obliged to have our company. Come, leave off prying abo t,
and calling absent people, .and stirring up the sleepy ehoes,
and get into the carriage. There is a.lady inside who-wilsbe
glad to have you back, and. I'll send Thomas down inb the
morning and find out all about Ruthie, or I'll drive you myself.
I dare say she'll be home by that time, and you can pick up
the service you long for so ardently."
Chris, utterly fagged, went straight to bed, without seeing
anybody except Deb, .who came and petted; her, and hushed
her sobs, for the poor child was a little hysterical, in spite of
Sonsie's magnetism, and held. her on -her motherly old-breast;
where Bessie used to lie ; and, Deb longed to know what it all
mneant ; why her-darling young lady suffered, and why she was
permitted to stayin:hidinglike. ac1prit, when the. others were
all below in the grawing-room, from whence Belle's rippling
laughter reached them at ntervals,: and her eldrich singing.
Deb took. to Sonsie at once. Shehad heard all:* how she
nursed Bax .W jimse nd: his sister, ,and of her; mission work,
and .the way she deported towards ChristabelFwon her heart:of
hearts. HerTLoor1ing comelipess; which thefigues oftravel

,
"  k
'
r
}
!   '           f
'        1
ii!    I     ,
t ' i(    ;        I,   i
ij  a
s;  ;   4...


SONSIE IS INTER VIE WED.

could not- blur, charmed her eyes, and after she got alone with
Thomas, she could not sleep for talking about the two -girls in
the tower-chamber, looking up the mountain to- the little
church-whose spire pointed toward Heaven.
CHAPTER XXX.
SONSIE IS INTERVIEWED.
HRIS'S eyes were heavy, and her step languid, when
she descended to breakfast. Otho was waiting in the
hall, and offered his hand.
"You have slept ill," said he, studying her face.
" I was over-tired last night," she re lied, turning away,
his tone was so kind..
"A walk in this good, bracing air wi 1 suit you. I must
have you to come up the mountain, and we will look in at the
little church, and say our prayers together."
Chris met his glance, friendly and positive, his smile so
grave. and yet so restful-sweet, and she felt that he was mer-
ciless. Determined to have his own way, and take his old
position, and make all her words in the great ball-room at
Rosenbloom of none effect, as far as suited his humor, and she
withdrew her hand.
"'I've already -disposed of my morning, Mr. Groenveldt,"
said she, and passed on into the breakfast-parlor.
"You here 1" exclaimed Belle, arching her handsome brows.
" I had no 'idea we were to be favored with your delightful so-
ciety at so early a- stage of the proceedings." Truly you must
have risen betimes."

"About fifteen minutes ago, I, think," replied Chris, coolly.
" Ah, you sly Chris,"-spoke up Bertha, with a little squeeze
of her friend's waist, "you came up last night, and never let
us know ! That is so nice ! I told Uncle Alec to beg and
plead, and take no denial."
"I did," said the host, who came in just in time to hear her
speak, "I did. I wrestled with the angel, and I prevailed."

" Oh, dear Mr. Craigenfels ! This is so perfectly charm-
ing !" said Belle, going up with both hands out; "absolutely
gorgeous. Now we may play at housekeeping, may we not?
I do so love to sit at the head of the table, and give orders.
We had a magnificent dinner up here last summer, sir, but you
were not present then to round the charm. Chris remembers
all about that day, don't you, cherie? and what fun we had
telling fortunes with the daisies. You do, I am sure, Bertha,
Chandos was so gay, and quite devoted to you, but he had not
seen Dolores then, you know. IEA, bien / such is life.  Au-
jourd'hui tout, demain rien: do come with me and fetch a
breakfast-posy. I am afraid of your gardener; but you will
not let him hurt me, will you ? and you shall force him to give
me some -shall I say pansies, Mr. Groenveldt?"
"You can say any thing you please, Miss Brandon," replied
Otho, pointedly.
"That 'person is as cross as two sticks this morning, isn't
he ?" said Belle, pushing her hand within her host's arm.
"Travelling tries people's tempers. Do you know, if I were
going to be married, I should like 'to take a journey witl the
perhaps first,,as a test.  You are so charming a traveller, Mr.
Craigenfels ! Really, I don't see how you. can ever leave this
delightsome old place ; but it is only we poor houseless, home-
less little wretches, who knob how to prize home."  She
heaved a deep sigh.

347

"; f ~
; .
i     ; ,   ,
f~s
~
I   .   ,
i!  . ;
-.
!
i
1

846

SO1t1'SM IS "INTER T IE WED.


SSONSIE IS INTERVIE WED.
If I had half a dozen such young ladies as Miss Brandon
to keep me company, I could never tire of it," said Uncle
Alec, pleasantly.
"Half a dozen, sir !" pouting very prettily. " Am I of the
variety which is counted by the half-dozen! I don't like that
--there!"
"Oh no,, dear child," laughed Uncle Alec; "you should
reign supreme."
Belle threw a gushing glance, into his eyes, bewitchingly
pleading, and Uncle. Alec was still enjoying the sweetness of
it, when Thomas came up, and said, -
"Breakfast is served, sir."
'one along, little simplicity, who wishes to be 'one only;'
bring your flowers with you, and begin your housekeeping.
Let me see how you will look at the head of my table.. Come,
my child."
Belle, veiled her eyes beneath their long lashes, lest her ex.
ultation should be too apparent, and replied .in a .very low
tone, -
" If- only you would- not call me your child, sir; it makes
me feel such a baby, as if you looked down on me."
"Whatshadl   say, 'my precious darling ' ?" asked he, much
amused with her artless navete.
"That sounds much nicer," she answered; lifting her eyes in
absolute, candor. "Say it in Spanish, please, Mr. Craigenfels."
"Ja mia Tortolita frecios  -how do your like that?"
" It is very sweet on your tongue, sir.": She repeated the
yords in her soft accents, making .mistakes and getting cor-
reget. " Will yo  te clpue Spanish, sir ?"
"Yer willingly my preiou turted.4ove; that is 'what you
have just called yourself.- None of te, ,egoritas 'have such
beauty as you. I like our girls best."

SONSIE IS INTERVIEWED.

,Belle paused before the mirror, hanging on his arm, and
smiled to his image.
"I am glad my face pleases you.' I have never forgotten
yours. It was very good of you to fetch me to this grand old
house.  I hate bustle, and parties, and all that ; quiet happiness
is so full of content."
She took the place he offered, and proceeded to discharge
its duties with charming grace., His, turquoise brooch was at
her throat, and the bunch of hyacinths'he plucked for her were
in her flower-vase.  She lifted it occasionally, and inhaled their
odor, and-then he, sitting opposite, saw her beautiful eyes above
them, looking smilingly at him, and her creamy face, framed
with soft, light floating hair, and he thought for the hundredth
time, "a most lovely child."
Sonsie came in after- they were all seated --_indeed,.far pro.
gressed in their repast.  She had risen early, and been all over
the farm-yards, inspected the chicken coops, lookedinto the
stables, churned Deb's butter, seen the cheese into press, milked
a couple of cows for Thomas, and received a bunch of choice
flowers for her "white angel," as a reward, and she walked
briskly - fresh, violet-eyed -and she' smiled as she held out
the posy, close clasped in her little fist.  Chris also smiled, and
put up her lips, for a kiss, as she accepted the love-offering.
" Sweet peas on tiptoe for a flight,
With wings of gentleflush; so delicate white;
Andtaper fingers, catching at all things,,
To bind them all about witi twining rings."
said she, pointing to the chair at her side, over which Sonsie
leaned an instant, her attention concentrated upon Chris and
her poetry, trying to, secure every word, rank and file, so that at
first she scarcely heard Belle Brandon' s voice.
" Was there ever any thing so opportune, deareMr. Craigenfels?
80

. ,
,
t-
j      ; -

349

1
i i    ,
;
,j
.r
'i
t
,
.:
1 1
t'     ,
xi
1
f
t     1
f
I
i


SONSIE IS INTERVIEWED.

Is this an enchanted castle, where one gets just what one wishes
for?  Do you know, sir, it was on my lips to say that our game
of housekeeping could hardly be complete without that very
girl (pointing to Sonsie), who excels in waiting, as indeed she
should, for Itrained her to adroitness, and quick zeal, and lo-!
I lift my eyes, and there she stands, all ready to begin her
duties.' It savors of magic, indeed; it is very kind of you, sir.
You certainly are the perfection of a host." *
Sonsie was looking full into the blonde's cloudless faceas she
finished, and her own lost all its crimson.
" Augh ! is it me, that ye'd be flyin' at as wicked as a weasel,
Miss Belle? Sorra a fancy have I for being a maid to the likes
of ye, then. I am obedient to Mr. Craigenfels just now, who
ordered me to his table, to sit beside Miss Chris ; but rather
than eat meat with one I know quite well, I'll go out to the
kitchen, where there's a couple of honest old hearts beatin' wid
goodness. Excuse me, sir."
"Sit down, Roukie," said Uncle Alec, whose face was as red
as if he had said an unpleasant thing; and he deeply regrett d
Belle's innocent mistake, and blamed himself that he had n t
told her Sonsie's position. Poor city child, where Irish girls
were invariably Irish servants, how could she possibly under-
stand any other phase of Celtic life than the one she was
familiar with ? "
".Sit down, my child ! Miss Brandon meant no offence to our
gentle blood. You are an O'Rouke, and my first cousin and
honored-guest."
Bertha sat perfectly still, with shocked face, and Sonsie had
turned her back upon them all, and reached the door, with her
head up, stepping briskly, when Otho sprang forward, and
caught her hand.
" Do not permit that girl to triumph over you, Sonsie,"

said he, with kind authority. "Come to the table instantly,
and behave as if she were not there. You must, or you will
most seriously hurt and offend Mr. Craigenfels, and slight us all,
besides doing an injustice to yourself.
" They say bad news travels wid hare's feet, Mr. Groenreldt.
I've a couple of minds to speak out what I know of that young
lady and her doings. How long do you suppose Mr. Craigen-.
fels 'd sit beaming so kindly, if I did? Look at her, pulling
them flowers into smithereens, and fixin' up her lips as mourn-
ful as irges !"
" wouldn't interfere, if I were you," replied the doctor,
with a queer smile. "Wait a little. There is not an error but
sheathes its retribution. Come directly, without making a
fuss."
t"Very well, sir ; since you say I ought, I will,",she replied,
readily, and she sat down by Chris, and ate her breakfast with
as healthy appetite as though Belle's words had been a kindly
morning salutation. That young person's strategy had proved
a signal failure, and she had not got rid of Sonsie at a blow, as
she intended; and she lifted swimming eyes to her host's face,
in beautiful, bewildered terror.
"Now it is evident that I have made a sad blunder. I
meant to pay a compliment, a merited one, too. Believe me,
Ididnotknow;* I had no idea. Shall I go down onnmy knees
to everybody, Sonsie Eagan included?  Do forgive me, every-.
body. I have to-have smiles and petting, to be comfortable.
Oh dear!"
" Give me some coffee, mea Tortolita preciosa," said --ncle
Alec, cheerfully, " and let us get on with our breakfast. T--here's
no harm done, and what shall be the order of our day?"
But all his kindly efforts could not bring gaiety to the surface
again, and the breakfast passed very nearly in silence. .When

"i i
,
j
i
'I ', i
t)
l
r

350

361

SONSIE IS INTER TIE WED.


852 . .     SQNSIE IS.INTEVIEWED.

SONSIE IS NTERVIEWED.

it was finished, Sonsie went, with her head up, .to Deb, and got
a basket of corn, and walked briskly down to the poultry-yard,
intending to get rid of her stormy thoughts among the chickens.
She had a couple of the yellow balls in her lap, and was begin.
ning to look merry, and feel good-humored, when Belle Bran.
don called her by name.
"I've taken some trouble to come down to you, my good
girl, and Jsome in kindness, because I cannot bear to see you
put yourlfin a way tobe snubbed. You are too bright and
sensible, and I hate to have you get your feelings trodden upon,
as you did this morning. These gentlefolks will toss you away,
when they get weary of you, as they would an old shoe. I
would keep to my'stationy if I were you. You see, , innocent
as I am, was led by your false position into a perfectly natural
speech, which proved disagreeable, all becauseyou was out of
place."
"Niver trouble yourself about me at all, Miss Brandon-"
said Songie putting back her chickens carefully, and standing
up to: toss out her-corn among the fowls,, who gathered around
her " I an quite able to have care of meself, and take me,
own part. I like being lectured by some, but I've got to feel
a deep respect for people tohave advice from them, and I'm
afraid the likes of :you sculdn'tdo me any good. There's Miss
Chris, now  or Mrs. Vedder, or Mr. Jan (Sonsie's eyes twinkled),
or Miss Iiradshaw--sured Ioutl it at their feet days and days,
and drink up all their words, as you cock gobbles his corn, but
you ! -ah, ya, wisha !"
The gesture and accent of supreme disgust with which Sonsie
finished her sentence irritated Belle beyond degree.
"You have no 'business here! I'll see if you cannot be made
to understand it! and I'll have you sent back toyour, work.
Set beggars.on horseback ?"

"Sure ye niver spake a truer word than that same, as ye
yersel give exaniple," answered Sonsie, showing her teeth pro-
vokingly, and smiling out of half-shut eyes. "Can't ye see I'm
quite busy at me task now, sure, feeding Deborah's chickens ?
You best stand aside, or you'll happen get a spatter pr so on
yer bonnie gown, or the toe of yer slipper, along of that old hin
scratchin'."
"Your impudence shall not save you. I should supposeyou'd
be too proud to stay where you're not wanted -where I do
not want you," said Belle, haughtily.
"And is it you that say them words to me, Belle Brandon.!
you, to me !" said Sonsie, setting down her basket, and dusting
her hands as shetook a step. toward-the blonde ; "I niver in
the world meddled wid what concerns me not, but if ye put yer
handsome body in me way, I'll walk over you, as. sure as me
name's O'Rouke ! and where'd ye be hiding yer wicked blue
eyes, and all them long curls, do ye think, if I was to tell Mr.
Craigenfels the half of what I know 'of your doings. He's a
true gentleman, and he would despise such tricks and lies as
yours. I'd kape a civil tongue in my head, if I was you, and
be aisy."
Belle's eyes glittered, and she turned on her heel. " Perhaps
I had better go and ask Mr. Craigenfels to send and fetch up
your brother the boot-black, and your sister the swill-girl, and
we might make room for your mother the scavenger,'- still,
one must draw the line somewhere."
80*

353


PIGEON DISPORTS HIMSELF. '  53 5

CHAPTER XXXI.
PIGEON DISPORTS HIMSELF AT WATCH. HILL.
OHN NICKSON was absent on banking business; so
the deacon said, and he honestly believed it. If bank-
ing consists in throwing dice, from twelve o'clock at
night till six in the morning, in gambling saloons, going to thea.
tres, dance-houses, races, and the like, he was banking to a
tremendous extent, with aid from his crony, Knox.
Mrs. Nckson was ill. Dr. Jenkins feared she was going into
a decline, --and said she must have change of air ; he would
have prescribed a course of Sonsie Eagan, only that bright-
eyed lassie was not to be had for calling, being absent at this
time with the' party in New York, as Zoe's maid. Poor Mary
Ann was nervous, started with every sound ; a sudden footstep
in the hall or a ring at the door-bell would take her breath
away.  She was hot and cold, restless, and much given to
tears. The family doctor,-who attended her closely, said Watch'
Hill was the place, and Sonsie the companion. As she was
not to be had, Mrs..Nickson declared she would gladly go, if he
would persuade Ruth Blair to come along, and she was quite
eager to be off, thinking how much good she could do the
small matron, whose pale, still face was a .constant reproach
to her.
Ruth did not know how to entertain the idea of abandoning
the Horseshoe. George might come ! This, though an ever-
present possibility to her mind, would have sounded so idle to
others, that she never spoke the hope, but gave her school as a
hindrance to the trip. Dr. Jenkins set before her the duties
devolving upon her : first, to the poor, weak sufferer, Mary

Ann; next to her. boy., Such a pleasure to him; what sea-
shells he could gather ; what pebbles; and, lastly, to herself.
He made her look 'at her face in the mirror, and bade her
accept this golden opportunity to persuade back her roses and
establish her health more firmly. " Let him see what a pretty
mother he has got, and it will not be many years, rugdar
Ruth, before your boy will begin to compare your fa.ii~th
other faces. Don't let it fade through any wilfulness datg.
lect."
Ruth consented, and while she gazed at herself, she won-
dered if George would find her changed when he came home.
So she turned her back on the Horseshoe, leaving her heart
behind her, and in March she and Mary Ann were domiciliated
in the spot where the winds work their free will, and the waves
dash forever and forever on the sounding shore.
The three were sole occupants of the Plimpton House, so
gay in summer with lively guests and sea-side frolics. The
early spring and cheerful sunshine invited them abroad, and
Mrs. Nickson somewhat enjoyed sitting in sheltered places
and listening to the dashing billows, watching the white gulls,
and seeing Pigeon jump about, shouting his delight with the
foam-caps, and Ruth gathering shells and mosses.  But' the
poor, weak girl had few smiles. " She was sad at heart, and
hadn't a word to say."

4 '

PIGEON - DISPORTS HIMSELF.

t'           ;
,        f
ti'   Ifi r  It
it 3i .,,ii;}  .


G    ".ARE.:T.iEY DEAD.?-,PEQPLE DO DIE."

CHAPTER XXXII.

ARE THEY DEAD?      PEOPLE DO DIE.
HL.,,eleven o'clock- train was in, and George Blair
stepped out upon the. platform of : the Millville depot,
 his hag "strappedl across his back, a box in his hand,
and set off at a good pace, treading squarely and firm, head
up, chest :out, into the starlit night.: He had studied the faces of
the new passengers who :got -in at Toptown,. and listened to
their talk, hoping to.:learn something of Ruthie ; but they were
all strangers, and prated of irrelevant matters. He crossed
Peddler's bridge, and remembered his walk with Belle Brandon,
in her pilgrim hat and staff; and thenthis, thoughts flew by quick
transitionto. Ruthie, as he had found her . that night on .his
return, fast asleep,. with wet lashes and crimson cheeks, and
he involuntarily tightened: his clasp of the box he carried, and
quickened his pace.
The Horseshoe was all dark ; not a glimmer ; but then other
houses were dark also;. that ,was- to be expected at this late
hour. He. trod..softly: upon the porch, and knocked at the
door, and tried the. latch. 3 It was fast, of course. Ruthie was
a careful little housekeeper. He had gone through that door
with her on his arm not three years ago, a joyous, blooming
bride, and welcomed her to his home. No sound. He lis-
tened, and went on tiptoe to her window among the lilacs and
roses. He trod down the cr cus and tulips she loved, and
tapped upon the glass, and called her name. No answer. He
began to be chilly and pale. What could it mean ?  A great
shaggy dog sprang out upon him, growling- and threatening.
"Ah, Flirt, good dog! where is she ?"  Flirt lay down at his

" ARE THEY DEAD? --PEOPLE'.

T  't
_                 i
,                c       ,

N+e

feet and whined. Are they gone ? Are the dead?
do die ? There had been a coffin on the traiih
dered to pass it, strong man as'he was, and his
he remembered it, and tales of men coming home just  i ate
He might be one of those men. Why not?   H    served it.
Flirt was very uneasy, and wished to entice, o enter the
deserted house. He took out his jack-knife, a;ruicklcat
away the string from the sash.  He- knew prec elyhere  to
work, because it was one of his own -setting, and in afew
moments he stood within the room, which was still as death.
He took a match from his pocket, and lighted the gas. The
white bed was perfect ; the work-table, the crimson basket, thi
toilette, the bracket -2..herhad helped to arrange them all- --most
of them were the work of his fingers -every thing looked in
dainty order. He listened for the solid tick of the great lock
in the other room, but itwasistifl and he opened the deoi__d
stepped in. His desk!was open. It seemed as the ha d sit
an hour ago. The tiny cogs and wheels, his. booksa,.arie
some half-finished toys, lay scattered upon the black velvet;
and a letter,! He -left a etter there, in that very spot, when
he deserted his true, good wife. :Was this, the same ? He lifted
it, and read his own name, "George Blair," in tiny characters
-Ruth's writing -4he kissed themn d tore it_ open.
DEAR GORnGE , -- I had to go; I could not help it. If yfu
should come in my absence - and I feel almost sure you will
~and if you 'wish to see me, I ani at W tch iill. Pigeon is
well. Much love. Your " Ruthie."
He exan-ined the date    - a week ago  He put it in his
pocket, .above a picture'he always carried thete. Flirt was
whining piteously at the door; he admitted her;, ad returned


^ i
',  i
1'
i
;
f  ,
;
;+
,
{  1,
t j
1 +) i
I k
! :
,  i
9
fe

85$   WHY MRS. BLAIR DID NOT GET HER BA TI-
ter caress with a good hug.  Flirt had seen Ruth only one
week before, and he told her she should see her again. Oh
yes, very soon. Before he slept he looked over the box of toys,
which were marked Pigeon, the silver engine made from a
Mexican d    dusted and. set out the work-box of Campeachy
wood, witli unfinished R, and touched and examined all
the furni     d wound the old clock, and looked in the par.
lor ; when  4 saw the desks he knew how Ruth had occupied
herself during his absence. Dear, dear Ruthie.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
EXPLAINS WHY MRS. BLAIR DID NOT GET HER BATH.
HE made up her mind to have an ocean bath. Mr.
rlimpton said the water was cold as ice, and she
would catch her death.
Ruth pooh-poohed that statement. "Ducks don't find their
death in the yeasty brine,"'said she ; and when the gentleman
stared, she smiled. He did not know who was used to call her
" duck."
Mary Ann shivered at the thought of such a plunge ; so Ruth
apped her in a warm shawl, and put her in a cleft of the
rock, where the sun beat down, and left her with Pigeon to
amuse her.
Ruthie had donned her crimson bathing-dress, of warm cloth,
and her. patient said she looked like little Red Ridinghood
going to see her grandmother, and hoped she. wouldn't meet
any wicked wolf. ' You're proper pretty, Ruth,". she added, as
she hung the little basket on her friend's arm,  proper pretty
isn't she, Pigeon?"

1'

WHY MRS. BLAIR DID NOT GE T HER BATH 359
Pigeon declined giving an opinion, but-promulgated a state-
nent concerning "precious papa," which got him an unlimited
number of kisses. The small matron's crimson shawl was
knotted about her, and she was busily stooping among the
rocks, hunting her algae, and added some lovely scarlet speci-
mens to her collection. She felt particularly gay. Whether it
was the bracing air, or her absence from familiar scenes, which
were all written over with her sorrow, I cannot tell; but she
was sure George would come home. She was thinking about
him as she walked up and down. That was nothing unusual;
for her handsome giant was always the sub-thought in her mind,
no matter what troubled its -surface. She found her shawl
heavy, the sun was so hot, and she threw it off, and sat down
on the warm sands, and took off her stockings and shoes, pre.
paratory to her plunge, and while she tempted the waves with
her little foot, round and' smooth, and the color of a pink sea-
shell, she pondered what she would get for supper, what she
would wear on, the gala night when George. had come.,. She
rose, and looked enjoyingly around her at the sky and th sea,
and all the while she trolled snatches of her cradle song,....
"The cricket sings under the hearth-
The bird is asleep on the-tree ;"
and then she fell to indenting small impressions of her foot
in the yielding sand, and once she fancied she caught her sim.
ple refrain echoed back in her husband's voice, and she smiled
to think how her intense longing could almost cheat her ears.
A saucy billow flirted up and kissed her toes, and she sprang
back in haste, it was so cold. "Ugh ! tis -chilly 1" said she;
"but a duck who has jumped into freezing water all winter need
not be frightened at it, I'll have my bath, anyhow. Now then !"
'--she swung her arms, as children do, who propose to- leap'


860   WHY MRS. BLAIR DID NOT GET HER BA TI.
front the big beam on to the hay mow, -- "one to begin, two
to show, three to make ready,'four to go !"
But Ruth did not "go; 'a...ir:.f eat strong,. ijgarms
caulit herand held her fast and the"arin bud of a
woman" just fluttered to her biisband's faithful heart with one
sob ofj j nd wa4, 'ahp me.
The glad sea waves came rolling in, hurrying, and leaping
each other's shoulders, to get a sight of her in her crimson gar-
ments, and the wind-voices piped tunefully above them, and
he white gulls wheeled and screamed and flew out over the
green water, to carry the news to their friends, who were riding
the froth-caps, and the human souls drank in the bliss which is
oought by absence.
Ruth was the first to speak. What she said was nothing
originall or thrilling, but her husband liked it.' It would have
tone you good to get a look at his face while he gazed at her
uplifted one.
"Oh, George ! how lucky that you came that very instant!
I was just going to plunge, and I should have been as wet as
a mermaid, and then I couldn't have got this good old-fash-
ioned hug, could I? George, George ! are you sure it is you?
really and truly ? no dream-?  I have had so many such, where
I saw your eyes looking jpst as they do now, and then I have
wakened to find myself alone - that was too pitiful !"
Ruth's eyes began to fill, and George made haste to reassure
her.     .
"jThis is no dream, duck," giving her a fresh hug, "nor
this;' you couldint dream such kisses as these, could you ? "
They were both silent a while, scarcely thinking, only con-
sc s of happiness; then George said, NDefore God, who
sees us, duck, I meant to do rgt. I *as' aiwajs a clumsy

1  1 1
41
tt E
f  l
t
1i
II  I
I Ali
I
! i
s
' a

WHY MRS. BL AIR DID NOT GET REP BATH. 361
fellow, and I blundered horribly ; but I didn't know what a
fool I was till a few weeks ago - a stupid, blind fool."
As George went on talking, Ruth's thoughts flew over the
past. She saw that he had no idea she had ever coupled Belle
Brandon with him in jealous folly, and she considered, with the
lightning quickness women are capable of, whether she should
tell him, and she decided -little Jesuit that she was -" No,
I will not so humble myself, nor shame him.' It is my own se-
cret, and I will bury it out of sight. I have suffered enough."
Was she right ? The giant's story was told, she knew all
about his day in the Romanza and Otho's deliverance, and she
tightened her clasp of his hand as the scene rose vividly be-
fore her. George struggling with death! and she thanked the
merciful Christ, who had restored him to her love.
" Have you forgiven me ?" said she. "Am I honest and
true and loyal? No spot, no flaw ? Are you sure ,that I
never in my life loved any man but you?"
" Duck, don't make me blush -a great fellow like me !
Come, let's begin anew. Only, if ever Belle Brandon comes
in my way!" 
"Well, George !" said Ruth, fluttering a little, "what
would you do?"
"I'd -I'd "-the giant clenched his fists -then loosing
them with a bright smile, he finished, "I'd think what a fool
she made of me!"
Ruth hid her face. " Even so," she thought; "and, Ibo
will have to think what a fool she made of me." She took
from her bosom a worn paper, and kissed it, tore it into frag-
ments, and scattered them upon the waves at their feet.
"That was your last letter to me, George," said she. "I
did not like the tone of it, and so you see I have confided it to
T1

, E
f
Y


362     CHANCE OF BECOMING A SPINNER.

the care of the fishes. You must :not write me any more such
letters -will you?".
" Never, dearest-! I'll never write you another, if Heaven is
kind to me, for I mean always to keep you close to me."
A sweet childish voice rung out clear on the rocks above
them, "Manma, mamma I"
# Ah ! my darling Pigeon," said George, and the two made
haste to seek him
"Look,= baby, look ! " - exclaimed Ruth'; "look who is
coming !"
" Precious papa !" said the boy, reaching out his hands.
"Ah! you did not forget me."
Mary Ann saw them climbing up, the child mounted on his
old favorite perch, and throwing kisses from the giant's shoul-
der. She clasped her thin hands, and burst into tears. "Oh,
my God! I thank thee that I have lived to see this good
sight ! Now I feel that my sin is forgiven."-
CHAPTER XXXIV.
CHRIS HAS A .CHANCE OF BECOMING A SPINNER.
S may be supposed, our Chris passed a sleepless nght
in the 'Tower-room at Craigenfels after her mother's
cordial welcome hone, andsshe made up her mind to
do heriduty. So she slipped out of a side door as soon as she
could go ' unbserved, and found Thobias Lysy  anong his
peach   es
"Deaar Thomas, may Lride Zephyr a little this morning?"
" Certainly, Miss Chrissie; I'll have him groomed and sad-

died directly."  She followed him ,down to, the loose bo .where
the pretty creature was looking out for them. "Here you,
Tommy!1 step lively, and bring out Zephyr for" this young
lady."
".Don't speak loud, Thomas,, please, cause I don't want
them to know. I'll just pnount here, in ;the yard and have a
quiet canter all by myself. The people up onder, won't miss
me."
She 'was turning out of the gate, when Otho Groenveldt
came in behind the old grapery, and stood.ging after her, in
displeased astonishment.t. Zephyr, pranced and arched his little
head, and pointed his. fie ears, ani uttered short snorts;. re-
joicingin his expected race, and delighte4 with his rider,-whose
hands and face and dress he had examined. witbahis discrinmi-
nating nose, and hishtright, intelligent eyes before permittingher
to  m ount.:     ,  . :: ,  ",
"Where is Miss  oklismith:going aloe., Thomas?"
"Just.for a wee canter, sir. 1 Secamne down and asked me
for Zephyr, as sweet as any thing.. . You know he is an old pet
of hers. . I don't think there can ke. any risk, sifr":.he added,
rather. doubtfully,:.as he noticed the, young -doctor'sanxious
face. "She's a good rider, and: Zephyri respects her."
"Have Tramp sddled immediately " ordered Qtho,. short-
ly. . " You have A4ne very wrongto prnit thjs "r
"I can't refuse any thing to tb pret y cre ,tpresirs" anwegd
the old man, with'his. hapdspread apol getically.    I sNhe
should ask me to take out my heart and give it her, Id not
lose an instant till I'd put it at her|et, ;he's4hat wnsome."
Otho: threta cuious. lopk at, m.e rva'an with a half smile
behindit, and: springing upon Blac  Tramp,.he trotted out of
the  yard . (..       , 'w  .. / '. ' _i . ,  t  ,.
Chris dismounted at Brookside, and tossed 'the bridle over

r.

CZ4NCE. OF BE0OMzVC 'A. SPINNER.


-aft     CHANCE OF BECOMING A SPINNER.
the post, and walked up the avenue, and called as she went
for Rainbow. She hardly expected to find him, because she
had gotten a full account of his tricks and his manners during
her absence, from Sonsie, but still she felt a little more down-
hearted thani before, because he did not appear. She stepped
upoff the door-stone, where Otho had taken leave of her after
her wonderful day up at Craigenfels, when he had asked -if he
might come and see her. She turned the handle -it was fast
- so she knocked; no one came ; she knocked again; the
upper window lifted, and the grim widow stuck out, her head,,
enwrapped in an old red handkerchief.
" What d'ye want; poundin' down there ?" asked she.
"To come in, mother, and see you," replied Chris, humbly.
"What ! they got tired on ye so quick up there ?  ['thought
'twouldn't last long ; such hifaluten talkin' never amounts to
shucks. That old man, that's always running, like a fool's eyes,
to the ends of the earth, he's wiser in his own conceit than
seven men who can render a reason. - Proverbs xxvi. 6."
"May I come in, mother ?"
"Come in i Do you. suppose I'm going to leave my work,
and keep prancing up and down stairs all the while, to wait
on you, just when you take a notion? If you do, your drefful
mistaken, that's all. I've got the heft of my sweepin' to do;
Im amost worked to death, and you travejlin' round spending'
money ! I shan't be down this half hour It"
"Oh, mother! please don't -talk so to me. Let me come
in." Chris burst inio tears.
"You are a wicked, rebellious, wasteful childI As vinegar
to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes.-- Proverbs x. 26." (It
twas a never-ending subject of wonder to me, in my acquain-
tance with Mrs. Goldsmith, where she managed to light upon
so many scathing texts.)    -.

:+
,:.
,,
' i
F
j.
:
f.
!jj
1'
l!

CHANCE 0F BECOMING A SPINNER.           65
" Oh, mother, mother ! do not say that. I am not wicked.
I could not help going to Craigenfels last night. Uncle Alec
took me by his will, and I have come back as soon as I could,
to ask you to forgive me, and let me come home. Please,
mother, don't look so cross... I should think you might give
me one pleasant word, when I've been gone so long."
"Oh, yes s Did Iwant you to go and- use up my money?
You've found out all, that are man's fine talkin' don't amount to
shucks, and now you're mighty glad to try and curry favor with
me. Awful crank he was, to be sure. I'll come down and
open my door, and let you into this house, where you want
never no use, on one condition-you'll go right to work and
make an end on't. No more whinin' about school, and books,
and such wasteful idlin'. See if you can begin to earn your
salt. 'Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, and thy back-
slidings shall reprove.thee.' - Jeremiah ii. 1o."
"What ! give up Rosenbloom, where I have earned my
scholarship by hard study ? I don't think I ought to do that,
mother. I cost you nothing for tuition."
"You don't! What do .you call a great long bill I got
'tother day, for close? Mighty fine doings, these. I've been
lookin' at the duds this morning -the ribbons and slippers
and gloves. Who told you to get all sorts of finery, for me to
pay for ? I've took and put 'em all away up garret, and there
they'll stay one while."
"Will.you not let me have my clothes?" asked Chris, in a.
fright ? "Please don't say so. I couldn't go back to the cin-
der-wench I was. I've .been very careful: I got nothing but
what was proper for my father's daughter. You -cannot wish
me to disgrace poor papa's memory. Oh, do let me have
them _"
"Not a rag , till.du've airnt 'em. You shall go down on
81*


6CHANC OF )EtOMI2VG A "SPINNER.
your kne~es.omthat dre stun, and eat husks, like the Prodigal
Chris glanced upat theWidowshiking hef fist and glower-
ing. "She"'was'!not" an a ge1,'thodgh Sensie was accustomed to
cor ides hersui  d she'lost herterper..
"Will a u pen the door aid :adiit me to my own home,
heireI hae aright to be,  er sha111 go--a way,'and never come
badk'B"
: MGo   way   wher  tiyi?: out :to the poor-house ?
You've afers bee talking :about.teaehin'school. Why don't
you go arid dolit ? I=dnlt a t to support you no longer. I
dint goin' to bl' mealy-i uthed nothing' at' AIP about it. Beg my
paijing-,and -proinise to g  to work stiddy, or you shan't darken
my door."
, ,..ot'is. nue' ut;.then! 'except upon the condition of be-
ing your drudge ? °I oii'tthink I ought to accept such terms.
I'll g. I. can ar . ng living, Ithink. At any rate, I can
try and miy'od forgive you' for your treatment of me. Just
wait till Chandy comes;home !' he l take you 'be kind;, and,
mntherhen ybd get to heaven and donst find me there, you
may.kno that-it is because' you: made your religion so hateful
to 're _ Gaod by. If.you are sick  if you need a daughter's
care; I'll try tobe'good= and forgiv 'you,:andI'l be kind and
tender if you. 'will:let .'.                         -
The widow banged down the sash. ~Her 'only daughter's
words*ffsetod her "strangely.' :f'If' you should be-sick."  She
looked .dowii.,at 'her wrinkled d old 'hands.. They had iMever
struck her so before, but,'of a truth, 'she couldsremember them
full of dimples and rosy-tinted. '"'Ifyou should besck."  She
was. getting. old,. certainly, -and a visor of a lonely room, a
helpless, 'withered creature, stretched there to die, and no child-
love 'abdut.'4e  Christabel. 'ould. be very 'gentle' in -a sick-.

CHRIS 'TREA TS RAINBOW TO A RIDE.

38i

room; she had nursed her through a fever once, and was, tender
and helpful. She mused. "Chandy'; he would not have any-
body else around 'him  -wouldn't have me /"  She rose up.
"No ! I'll let her go ! What a fool I was to think for an in-
stant of calling her back!1 Sick! 'me ! fiddlesticks. ' I'm as
tough as a knot, and she's got to come to it. That old gopher
isn't goin' to board and clothe her. I ain't such a flat as to
think it, if she does; and when she's humble enough, I'll make
her do the spinning."

CHAPTER XXXV.
CHRIS TREATS RAINBOW TO A RIDE UPON ZEPHYR.
dIRIS rode off in such 'a tumult of emotions,. that she
hardly knew where she was, and let Zephyr gallop as
swiftly:as herchose. She hadn't expected much de-
monstratib'dof affection, and yet the scene slie had just finished
was hard to bear. She bitterly reproached herself for her
hasty, undutiful words;, and wished she had bitten her tongue
and kept it still, and when Zephyr dropped into a-walk, she
thought deeply.. Was it her duty to take up her old life- again?
"N !" she said firmly,. "it is not. I have a right to.-some-
thing better, 'and-I am resolved to have it. I will finish at
Rosenbloom. .  can' manage  it somehow, and I will. One
year is mie already."..,
. 2Zephyr heard aclatter of hoofs behind him, and picked up
his little round sabots in a hurry. He had no idea of being
passed by horse-feet, and. he fleetly flew, like a winged wind.
His pursuer was distanced, and when Chris. looked around,
there was no one in sight.

.1,
,
}
i


CHRIS TREATS RAINBOW TO A RIDE.

CHRIS TREATS RAIND9OW TO A RIDE.

" Oh," said she, "he must have turned the corner, or taken
that wood-path. Well, Zephyr, you have a clear road now,
Let us go where you carried me that day."
So they went over Hog's-back, through the. meadow-road,
where Dulcet struggled with the cow-ponys, up the glen, paus.
ing at the well-remembered places. She dismounted, twice
or thrice, to gather pale blossoms, when the gentle steed fol-
lowed her like a dog, coaxing for a taste of her wood-flowers.
While she stood playing with him, pushing off the inquisitive
nose he was determined to thrust among her sweets, she heard
a scramble and a loved "purmow," and Rainbow came tearing
through the bushes, and leaped upon her, overwhelmed with
joy. She sat down on the grass and gathered him in her arms,
and had a good cry, and she felt better.
" Now I'll give you-a little ride, my dear cat," said she, invit-
ing him to a place upon her horse, which he readily took, and
lay with his fore-paws dangling among Zephyr's beauty-locks,
while he looked out complacently over his head.
Chris laughed heartily, and the steed seemed to like it too,
and stood quite still, or walked carefully, not to disturb his
new friend. They rambled on through the sweet-smelling
woods, just bursting into leaf, and when Chris was' tired and
ready to mount she took Rainbow in her' arms, and poured
out her sorrows to him, as she used in the old days, when he
was the treasure-house of her secrets, and she.got a little com-
fort out of his purring society. They neared the gate; and she
turned her head, and looked and listened.
"I think it must 'be the headless horseman, who used to
vanish when people sought him," said she, "for I feel certain I
heard hoofs behind us. Say, Zdphyr, do you remember how
you and I leaped those bars ? Could we do it again ? You
and I and Rainbow1!"

I
I f
r  1
L
Ii
;
I?
It I
i
i
1
f t

Zephyr arched his neck to her caress, and said "yes," as
plain as horse could, and Chris pulled the Egyptian close up
to her, tightened the reins, and brightly, softly, airily, easily,
over they flew, and landed in safety. The maid forgot her sor-
row, and her eyes danced, and the gray rocks threw back her
joyous laughter. She heard a shout, and swift hoofs behind
her, and turned her head just in time to see Otho Groenveldt
following her lead, and in another moment he reined in Black
Tramp at her side.
"So it was you, sir, who have been dodging in and out. be-
hind me, putting Zephyr into a foam, till I shall get scolded by
Thomas for hard riding," said Chris, frowning.
The young doctor looked much amused at the unexpected
salutation.
"Yes, Miss Chris. It is I. When a young lady is fool-
hardy enough to start off alone on a gay horse, who has not
been out of his stall for a week, I think she needs somebody to
look after her. You are certainly fortunate to come home with
your head where it belongs."
Chris laughed scornfully.
"I should get a sconce for my head, and ensconce it too, or
else seek my wit in my shoulders, when I come to grief through
Zephyr's treachery. I am a firm believer in the chivalry of
horses. Good-by, Rainbow. Thank Zephyr for your ride,"
she added as the Egyptian leaped to the ground and trotted on
before them.
"That is a wonderful cat of yours, Miss Chris," remarked
Otho, looking interested.
"Yes, sir; I intend to change his name from Rainbow to
everlasting steadfastness, because he is always the same  a
firm, true friend."
"What if I were to remind you of an old contract of ours,

i' ;
.k

869

38$8


CHRIS TREATS RAINBOW TO A RIDE.

371-

Miss Goldsmith," said Otho, slowly; "an unredeemed guerdon
a race to flush the cheek and quicken the pulse. Shall we,
some: fine day, pick up our merry contest, and take the ride,
and 'a leap also, if you like ? I see you have not lost your
skill.":
Chris's lip quivered.
"I was lad that day," said she;- " felt s
so sseheGo   Ti d         iff  el so strong, so young,
so sure-o Go   .dit is different. I can take up no old
promises."                                -
He threw himself from his horse, and stood with out-
stretchedaxms, waiting for her to dismount but she pushed.
Zephyr past him,' and leaped lightly-to the ground, and after a
ks upon hid glossy faceind a farewell pat, she walked straight
up .to the house. She found Uncle Alec in the library, and
she laid her'hand upon his houlder.a
I've got no friend but you now; no home but this. 'I'm a
pilgrim and a straiiger; I tary but a nightt'
She tied hard 'not to -w eep,' while she uttered Deacon Wii.
hams' favorite couplet, and she told her story, not emitting the
hard words she had thrown back for' her motherz s gaig
s tj                        goading.  "
Iki' that was wrong.'  rn sorry for 'it. But, Uncle
Alec did Ido right?"
"epet," very decidedly.
te ut Ist have m  clothes, you dear uncle. Eve's daugh-
te  =gt"e~e beloved fiyer .iAsk Miss Brandoen if' that is
not a correct statement."
Chris curled her lip, as the blonde appeared in the door-way
with her hands full of cut-flowers, and did her best oor-wak
lightly, 'spea
"I'll takecare of' all such necessities, my child ; give your-
self no'worry," said Uncle Alec, kindly. "Jut   now to

CBRIS TREATS RAINBOW TO A RIDE.

enjoy yourself thoroughly, and make me happy.  Little pet,
darling queenie, shall have every thing she likes."
"I fear I may be de trop. Shall I. withdraw," asked 'Belle,
sniing.
"Not at all,. my dear," 'replied the old fellow, beaming on
her; "come in, pray, pretty Flora, _iTortolita preciosa."
Chris, preoccupied as she was, observed the tenderness into
which the soft Spanish melted in his tones, and also noted that
his eyes followed the beauty's graceful motions with peculiar
pleasure.    .
"Do you like blue and scarlet, Mr. Craigenfels ?" asked
Belle, wing close up to her host. Her rapid step showed
her tiny blue satin slipper, and her floating soft hair, dressed
with fuschias; drifted back from her creamy face, and pendant
from his turquoise brooch there hung a cluster of the eardrops,
and her azure crape tiailed after her in sweeping folds.
"I had infinite trouble to coax your gardener, but I made
him kind at last, and he gave me these for you and Mr. Groen-
veldt.  You see, I am not the selfish girl who forgets her
friends-rosemary, and rue, and pansies. You may divide
them between you. Ah, here comes your cavaher. I saw you
riding in together. There L don't blush. Mr. Craigenfels, we
must be sharp with these young people. .We do not approve
of their stealing off through by-ways slyly, do we? You must
also wear the willow, Mr. Groenveldt, I fear, along with your
rue." She took up' Chris's wrist, and flashed the sapphires be-
fore his eyes. , I. have found, out tall about this gorgeous thing
a perfect chapter of romance. Love at first sight, constancj,
separation, and.,plighted vows,' and by-and-by a wedding. May
we all be there to see the happy pair 1.
"What impertinent nonsense{you are talking !  said Chris,
jerking away her arm, and pulling down her sleeve over the gems.

i
I   4
I; IZ

:
i

370

i
t   ,
,r
t ,!'
f J ,f
4
i
,,,;'
! .
;;l


CHRIS TREA TS RAINBOW TO A RIDE.

Belle laughed merrily. "Max is such a pretty name," ex.
claimed she..           .
Otho bowed pleasantly to the blonde.   "Young ladies,
thoughts are much given to matrimony, I suppose ; so it is not
strange that Miss Brandon should prate of it so parlous sweet,-
and, apropos, I have a letter from your adored, which I took
from the post but now, H. X. Z. Zambrano has a choice mono.
gram, indeed."
Belle reddened, and reached out quickly to take the epistle,
which Uncle Alec could not help seeing.
"It appears that my friend Dolores likes it, since she is-so
fond of using it. This is one of her crossed and recrossed
epistles, all about the balls and concerts and beaux, I suppose.
As for me, I am s' thoroughly happy here, that I have forgot.
ten my town-life. I wish everybody would leave me alone."
" Her penmanship is something masculine, is it not," asked
Otho, incredulously.
"I am not aware that it is of the least consequence to you,
Mr. Groenveldt," replied Belle, a little crossly.. " However I
assure you she writes in the precise style taught at Rosen..
bloom."
"That is not Dolores' writing," remarked Chris, quietly.
"It-is," said Belle..
= it is nto," answered Chris, walking off into the drawing.
room, where Otho followed her.S
" Politeness is a quality which highly adorns a woman.  VMous
Pte tres polie, cherie," said Belle, airily, as she thrust the missive
into her pocket..
"'But how about that handsome young Cuban, rhea preciosa,"
asked Uncle Alec, kindly; "Is he to be the happy individual ?"
"That boy /" exclaimed Belle.. "Oh no, sir!1 Please don't
you jest with me ? ' I cannot bear it; I don't .mind Mr.

Groenveldt and our Chris, because they know I could never
fancy such an unformed, immature person."
" Why not, my dear ?  He is a mighty good-looking chap."
Belle picked out her flowers, and laid them up together, the
scarlet and the blue, with her head on one side admiringly. Of
course she did not know that her host was watching her.
"Perhaps- he may, but you see I don't like him ; that's all.
When I marry, I mean to have a husband who has dignity and
responsibility and position."
" Better be careful how you correspond much with him, then.
Those hot-headed Spaniards are hard toy manage; and pretty
soon he'll be writing love to you, and it were a pity you should
break his heart."
"Me, sir!1 I break no hearts ; I correspond with no lovers.
You don't know me yet ; and as for love, I had not found out
what it meant till I came "-she blushed, and dropped her eyes
upon the toe of her slipper, and then lifted them slowly till they
reached his, when they were swimming in modest confusion.
"Do let me sing to you," said she, tossing away her flowers
in a pretty hurry, after a pause, during which she had been pun-
ishing the poor blossoms dreadfully - tearing them, as Sonsie
would have said, into smithereens=-and manceuvring her lips
and her dimples.. Her voice was at its richest, and she was
gushing, ardent, coaxing, childish, -delightful. She and her host-
were tote4-ete till dinner, and the genial gentleman passed a
most agreeable morning. Belle Brandon had a little worry to
keep under too, so that when she got to her room to dress, and
pulled out and read her crumpled letter, she threw herself
wearily down upon her bed, with drooping arms.
"Oh dear," said she, 14 I only hope lejeu en vaut la chan-
delle. That tiresome Zambrano I I must answer him by this
mail. He begins to threaten. I wonder how much money he

.;;,
? iF  '
1 } + !
, ,,.
,
4
,,
;,

14'1  1-,,I        TT
/     ' " -.  -wtio ,  , i      3    ,?  Y^"fivee.,,   r  "  1,'l  4  A'
CHRIS TR A rS RAINBOW TO A RIDE.

372

373

4


374

CHRZS TREATS RAINBOW TO A RIDE.

really has!t But, in any case, a life here, [she looked about
her], with a town-house, and unlimited command of this rich
man's purse. He throws his money about shamefully !"  She
drew from her pocket a handful of Mexican dollars, probably
as confirmation of'her statement.  "An old man's darling bet
ter than a young man's slave. Any common girl would have
a fair chance to be that as Zambrano's wife, with his stupid jeal-
ousies and flashing looks. I cannot afford to throw him over
though, till I am sure, for married I must and will be, and mar-
ried rich. I can't stand Aunt Isadore forever.".
She sat down before 'her mirror, and studied her blue orbs
and creamy face for inspiration, and then she indited a tender
epistle, full of pet names and endearments, which she signed
"Your. own loving Belle," and directed -to  Henriquez Zam-
brano."
There I I hope that will keep the fool quiet a while, till I
can see where I am;" and as she, brushed: out her curls, the
threaded notes of her musical laughter rippled forth so clear,
that Deb stopped outside 'her ddor to listen and frown, and
Rainbow' rose from. his place on the rug, and walked'into the
fresh air, which he snuffed uneasily..
Indeed, Deb was not nearly so well pleased with Mr. Craig.
enfels' morning as. washat gentleman himself. She came and
went several times. past the drawingroom porte, and she
scowled, rather, upon .the lively :blonde.'
"Well, well," remarked she, testily, "There's no fool like an
old fool! tWho'd :a thought, noW,' that.: 'sensible man, like our
good master, would .ha' been so took up with that bit of red
and white flesh, with a selfish devil inside ont. But bless your.
sul, men 'are- all alike'; just, butter''ei a-little, and they'll
swallow down flattery as Bose bolts his dinner ".

SONSIE AND JAN VISIT THE CHILDREN.           875
Otho followed Chris into a little morning-room, which was
mostly bow-window, and sat down by her.
"Miss Chris, I am glad you came into this odd, out-of-the-
way nook.,I like it extremelyy. I've. got some charming news
for you, which you will rejoice to hear, and this arm-chair will
just suit me while I tell it."
It was the Mexican life, its perils and. escapes, and included
such praises of George Blair,in such terms that Chris was as-
tonished, and when. she learned that the giant was returned,
and Ruth was happy, her eyes kindled with glad brightness,
and her face unlocked, and she readily; complied with his re-
quest to try a little the violin, and he produced a real cremona
and praised her -execution, .and then they talked and read, and
dinner found them still, absorbed in their pleasure, and when
she ran off to dress, Chris had to tell herself that she had been
happy.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
SONSIE AND JAN VISIT THE CHILDREN.
FTER Belle Braridon'sparting shot among the chicken-
coops, S nsie Eagari walked batk to the house, with
her empty basket on her arn, and sat down in Deb's
kitchen.
"I think I'l get a little step this morning, Mistress Deborah,"
said she. "I'm worritin over Miss Ruthie. She should be at
home, .I am sure, by this, and I long for a sight of her true face,;
and if I do not return, please tell Mr. Craigenfels -that I left
my respectful duty for him."
She met Belle on the stairs, as she came down in her hat and
cloak.

I t(. '
i
^ 1
i
). +
,+ i
' iVli
i i4
' t
.  i
'

i
i
i
. +i


376   SONSE AND JAN VISIT THE CHILDREN.
"Ah, my good girl, I perceive you are about to take my ad.
vice. That is right. Get a suitable, respectable service, and
you may come to me any time for reference."
"J'll come to ye for other than that one day, I'm thinkin',"
said Sonsie.
She was walking briskly through the upper glen, with her
head up, which .she tossed a little sometimes, as if she were
getting the better of an adversary in her busy thoughts, when
Zephyr came close upon her before she saw him, or heard his
light hoofs on the springing turf.
"Why, Miss Chris, dear [this was the same morning. on
which Chris paid her visit of filial duty to Brookside, you know,
and she was returning from the same], why, Miss Chris, don't
ye ride over a poor walkin' body, vid yer pretty horse. Sure
ye look winsome, the pair of ye, and this is .a bonnie green
place for our meeting."-
Chris drew rein, and the two young faces, both clouded
before with unwelcome thoughts, cleared, and rippled all over
with smiles.
"I saw ye, mavourneen, though ye stole off so sly, and right
glad am I that ye got yer dainty Zephyr so brave and early;
for there's a Kilpie after him. -But whisper, darlin' ladykin,
where's the cheerness that should light yer precious face
Chris was just in the humor for unlocking her trouble, and
she let it all out to the faithful soul, so good to rest upon.
"And what am I to do, Sonsie?" she finished; "no clothes,
and no money ! Was ever a poor girl so tried?"
The Celtic lassie heard her in swelling wrath. " I'll go
down and break open the place wid me two fists, and bring
away yer things mesel' ! ivery rag ! Bad luck to the murtherin'
old,"
Though Sonsie had all the -Irish reverence for parental

SONSIE AND 7AN VISIT THE CHILDREN.            877
authority, she forgot it in her hot indignation over her white
angel's trouble, and was going on to intensify the occasion,
when Chris stopped her.
"No, no, Sonsie; hush ! I. must not let you talk so. I
feel very unhappy, and I know my behavior was not'just per-
fection. I am afraid I rather spoke up ;, and I'm going to
think it over quietly, and make up my mind. It is a serious
thing for a young girl to cut loose from the mother. Oh, dear,
I wish mine loved me ! Good-by, Sonsie, my own Sonsie ;
give my dear love to Ruthie and Pigeon."
Sonsie watched her slender figure round the bend, and stood
still a moment after she had gone out of sight, thinking, before
she walked on.
"Ah, wisha ! 'tis a wanderin' bird cast out of its nest that ye
are, darlin'; ' thy lips are a thread of scarlet, and thy speech is
comely.' She read them words to me this very mornin' herself,
out of me new Bible, and mighty good readin' it is, for all Father
O'Gorman forbidden' it to us. Sure and faith, I've the com-
mon sense given me by our great Father in heaven, and I'll
use it for guidance the best I'm able, before I give me soul up
to be huded and hushed by ary priest at all. These Yankee
girls are ladies and Christians, and their ministers tell them to
search the Scriptures ; and just listen to them talk ! You
can't puzzle them on the doctrines, and we poor Catholics
haven't a word to say for our faith, through bein' kept in dark-
ness. Ah ! Miss Chris, darlin', how can I help ye ?  Augh !
but yon old woman is a fiery dragon. She's a cockatrice, a
a - a - iver one of them pisin things that St. Peter drums out
o the pleasat land. Yes, all of them intirely, bad luck to
h r ! and she's a Protestant. Yes, this is just the truth for yez,
Sonsie. It isn't the Protestants that's good, and 'tisn't the
Catholics, but 'tie the Christians, -'those who do lthe will of
82*.


378   SONSIN AND 7AN VISIT THE CILDIEN
my Father in. heaven' 4 Christ's own words;" and, quite sat.
isfied with her solution oftthe. subject, Sonsie took a good think
upon another, saying, "Whisper ; how'll Ido.it?"
Her head was bent, and her eyes seeking the ground, and
her footsteps soslow that, when Jan Vedder espied 'her, he
said to his mother:. "Sonsie has lost something."'
He. was driving 'the, creams" up to Craigenfels inquest of
this very lassie,: and he stopped to speak to her.
"What istit,. Ollan Fo lda'?  Not the green glass breast-pin
that's gone, I hope."
Sonsie put her hand to her throat. "Sure, then, it is," said
she, in alarm. "I wonder, now, did I wear me fairing to-day
I had it in me hand, anyhow." .
"Jup in, and I'll drive straight up to Craigenfels and hunt
it out."
" No, Mr. Jan, thankin' ye "kindly; I feel quite sure that it
is safe. I do remember me now that it lies in its box on the
table- on account of Miss Chris 'puttin' me the flower - of a
primrose .tone throat in place of it. I can't. return 'now.
I'm .bound to, Miss Ruthie's, whom I wish much after me~
journey."                    .
"That is a joy deferred, my dear child;" said Mrs. Vedder.
"Mrs. Blair is from home ; but' I've got aletter'for you. Come,
get in by my side, and-"I will' give it to you, and show you
mine too; 'for I' also have a letter."
".And 'is it. a lether, rma'ain'?  sn that quare, now? I
niver had alether 'in the wholeiofn'ie life. Let me take it in
me hand, please, till I' feel it."
"Come up first," persisted Mrs. Vedder.
The lassie looked in the fairy matron's 'face, and at the
young fellow, who was waiting her deainon anxiouslf.'
"'Sure, 'Ill inot be stoniachful toward thiest true gentlefolk,-

SONSIE AND. :AN hISIT THEB c lLDRE.

because of the- Cruel words 'of yo nasty rascal.' I'1clea me
up bright, and speak fair. 'Truth, purity, delicacy, culture.'
Those. were my white- angel's words.: Yes, ma'am, azec grand
plaisir. Miss Brandon's own words," said she, exactly repro-
ducing Belle's accent
Jan jumped down. " Sit'by me, Sonsie. I want you most,
and I'll let you drive the creams,'
She hesitated.
"Yes, dear da ghter; sit there;: that is right: We women
must indulge the lords of creation sometimes, in their silly
whims," said Jan's mother.   '
. Sonsie sprang up without another. word. "Now give me
me letter, till I read it," said she, reaching back her 'hand.
She perused it attentively, folded,.- kissed, nd hid it in her
bosom.
"Well, my daughter, what' does she say ? " asked Mrs.
Vedder, after giving her time to think a little.
"She says I'm to come wid ye, ma'an, and be a good girl
while .I:stay, and do as ye bid meand be loving and faithful,"
replied:Sonsie, soberly.'      -
"That is very nice of Mrs. Blair.. -She knew how much I
needed you, because, you see, I have all my'plants.to pot, and
my ferns to gather, and.-my. musk ducks to rear, and my calves
to wean. In short, I have my hands so full of work, that I
don't 'know:which to take up.first.. Our journey just cut into
the important time, and I am afraid the star-flowers, and wood-
violets are all out,.of bloom. Oh, yes, Sonsie, you will be a
treasure, indeed."
"I will gladly come,. then,' Mrs. Vedder, and 'thank ye truly
for needing me. And sure. yer face is' just a gleam of 'sun-
shine this morning, when' I had' been feeling as if God had
forgotten the world alongof letting' every thing go so wrong."

1; .

378


880   SONSIE AND 7ANT VISIT THE CHILDREN.
She proceeded to detail Chris's story, and to give a very
forcible opinion of the sour widow and her doings; and Jan
took it up, and said no such" proceedings as those would go
down, and threw in stinging, comments upon her excessive
piety, and closed up by asserting that if such religion was going
to take such people to heaven, he had no wish to go there.
"Christians are going to heaven," answered Sonsie, with
the fixed assurance which her recent solution of the matter,
gave her, " They'll take their love, their goodness, and thei
truth, and their delicacy, and culture, along with them ; and
that's why it will be so pleasant to be among them. I don't
believe purple blood will count there. Those are the people
I like to live with, and I am goingto try to go."
While Jan was studying her, and hoping she wouldn't be in
a hurry to get off, a peddler passed them, in a covered cart.
" Just the fellow we need, Sonsie," he exclaimed, in an
excited voice. He will do bravely. Hillo, Tim ! where are
you stopping to-night ?"
"Deoun to Miss Larkum's," replied the peddler, nasally.
"She's goin' to trade off her truck, and she's so darned slow, I
don't expect to be threw before midnight, much."
" I'll be there by six o'clock," said Jan. "You wait for me.
I've got important business, - something that you will find
profitable."
" I'll stop, Mr. Vedder, never fear ; that's just the sort of a
cheese I like to cut," replied the peddler, laughing. " Come,
git up, ye darned lazy cretter, or I'll swap ye off for soap
grease. Git up !"
Jan developed a plan as they drove on, which afforded intense
amusement to Sonsie, who extolled highly his inventive genius,
and caused his mother to say, smilingly, what a giddy pair of'
young hopefuls they were, such a queer frolic; and to think

SONSIE AND 7AN VISIT TIHE CHILDREN.          381
how gay and handsome a couple they'd make. They had a
delightful drive, and Sonsie got a lesson in managing the
"creams," and Jan hugely enjoyed watching her blue eyes and
purposeful face, as she obeyed his directions.
"Let us go down to the Clayton mansion," said he, holding
his head with both hands' during the fast time.  " Thank
Heaven, my wig is all safe. Turn the next corner, Sonsie,
take care! don't go round on two wheels, - and we'll look in
on our family. That poor little cripple haunts me. I shall
never forgot his look when he threw himself at my feet."
"Nor the hard blow he got for it, either," said Sonsie.
Captain Slocum was in the garden, in his shirt sleeves,
directing his men, who were laying out flower-beds of every
conceivable pattern, and he took off his straw hat and swung
it round his head, as soon as he espied them.
"Well, papa Slocum, how are the children?" asked Jan,
reaching down to shake hands.
"Seven golden candlesticks, seven rams, seven lambs, seven
he-goats, seven bullocks," replied the captain. "You never
saw such a group of young ones in your life. 'We are seven.
We take our little porringers, and we eat our supper there,"
pointing over his shoulder with his thumb toward the house.
"Come up and see us do it. I thought, for a couple of days,
that we shouldn't be but six, but my wife, she set that up
square with a young woman she found after diligent search. I
mentioned a nanny-goat, but Dulcet turned up her nose. She
has peculiar ideas on these subjects."
Mrs., Slocum sat in' the midst of her new family, busy and
important as a hen. who has just brought .off a large brood.
The oldest girl was in her lap, getting her flaxen hair curled ;
and the pale cripplersat at her feet with a boek of colored pic-
tures, which he wasisedately adrmiring, and his face lighted with


382   SONSIE" .AND   4NAN ;VISIT THE HCIILDREN.
a heavenly, smile when ht saw Sonsie; 'and he dropped the
book and folded' his hands as if he was going to pray. She
stooped, and kissed his passive, uncomplaining eyes, and in.
quired how he liked his new home.,
"It is, lowly-sweet here !":said he. ""She is so good !" He
took Dulcet's stuff gown into ?.his clasp,;and pressed it to his
heart. "I'm sohappy; 'and they eat and sleep; they've for.
gotten all' about the dreadful times: 'I can't ; I dream of them
in my sleep at night, and think e I feel the whip. on my back;
and when I wake up in my good bed - all nice and warm--
I'm so glad.! so glad!."                            .
The other five were imbibing nourishment under the charge
of a nice red-and-white- young woman,. who held the ibit of a
baby to her breast.; and old: Mrs. Petibone, who, with a vast"
check apron begirding :her trim figure, and 'her 'silver-bowed,
spectacles ,ion' her nose, was administering. alternate doses of
bread and milk among the mouths:open to. receive, like young
robins in the nest.. Dulcet explaine&amp;
"They experience :Jperpetu ally :th cravings. of hunger yep,
and we. feed them every two hours all day long. Poor little'
innocents'! so scarred and marred, as they were. It makes.me
sick to think about it! '' " '."   ".
" I declare, Mr.-Vedder," said the:did lady, pushing off her
glasses -up above her cap-border,.' "I'm-thatkfu enough" tha I
got welL'.. I kinder-thoight,'last winter, about the time I3a
Williams died, I was: drefful 'sick then, you 'know; and I used
to tell the capped, 'Cappen. says 1,;2iLa'most thirk'mywork is
all: done, andIm ready t6"go,:ifit-is"the.Lord's will.' . And the
capped used to'.larf:at me. and 'say;i' Why, .law, 'motheref. you'll
live tO.trot.a heap :of:grand-children on  your .kneesyet.' We
can't thiik of sparitnt:you;' -aud,_bless.yan, Ii ere « they are!' l
heap 'on 'em, sure enough, all to once!'Yes,4fMr. edder, I'm

SANSZ   AND NA VISIT . THE' CHILDREN.        383
glad I stayed to see 'em; and they're gettin' :chirk and fat
every day."
"Really, Mr. Vedder, and you, Sonsie," said Dulcet,
" mother is.quite right ; she always is. ..:We do not know how,
appropriately, to thank you for finding us'this. blessed work to
do. Although I. am  so, pufficly, fastidious, I experience the
greatest amount of pleasure and absorl ing interest in these
dear little waifs cast ashore upon the strands of time ! and it is
delightful to coritemplate upon our: privilege of rescuing them
from destruction, and: restoring them to their divine Creator's
approbation, and. writing upon their precious immortal souls
his image and superscription, if God spares our lives."
" Of course he. will !" 41'put in, the captain.  tHe ain't going to
knock us out of a job.of his.own providing. We'll fix up the
seven lambs, seven rams, seven ---law I how that Scripture
kinder hangs together, don't "it.: I mean the seven children,
smarter than Jerusalem crickets.. Oh,.. yes, 'Dulcet, my dear!
'I shall die in my nest, and multiply my days :as .the sand.'
Just make that quotation plural, and it' willfityou and me to a
fraction."     '        .
" That is the captain's peculiarly forcibleway of expressing
himself," said 'Dulcet,.fearing they might think hermworthy hus'
band irreverent, : though,. Iminst say, I fully coincide wit  his
views, and cheerfully cooperate :ith all his plans for'our new-
found treasures; and [,rnyself, fully expect o remairi in 'the
sublunary sphere till';they reach matuity.' .
" Just so; Veddery{ 'good feed and warm stable,: that brings
up stock, don't it?  ' Stay ie with' flagons, comfort 'me with
apples.'!
The captainuttnholed Jaa, aiid pulled hiniinto the new
" There's one. pint that bothers 'me considerable. You see


384   SONSIE AND JAN      VISIT TIHE CHILDREN.
these youngsters don't know their names from a general
training , and we've got to. fix up something spry for them. Now,
that one over there by Dulcet, with the angel's head on- his
crooked body, he says the old hag called him ' Crip ;' that is
insulting and personal. I declare, Jan ! I've been a great mind
to cry forty, times, to look at him and hear him talk. Of course
he'll never be the value of a row of baby-pins to work; but,
somehow,. I feel softer-hearted towards him than any one on
'em."  The captain blew his nose and wiped his eyes. "I
wouldn't have missed having' him on no account whatever!"
Sonsie came up, all fervor and fire.
"Mr. Vedder, they're beautiful, sir, indeed! I never saw
such a pair of boys ! I'd be sure they were Irish, only I know
no Irish mother could be so cruelto her little ones. Oh, Cap-
tain Slocum ! what a blessing ye'll get with these, I'm sure !"
"Yes," replied the captain, who was revolving the name
question. "Seven golden candlesticks, seven rams- oh, shaw!
what am I thinkin' on? Come down stairs, Sonsie, with us,
and help find out some good names for them. Dulcet, she's
provided handsomely for the girls, haw ! haw ! all they can stag-
ger under. Just wait till you come to the christening ! We are
going to have a bully one as soon as we get 'em fatted up
enough to stand it; yes, sir. Now if ye be ready, ' what time
ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery,
and dulcimer, and all kinds. of music,' you'll see our seven
golden candlesticks, seven rams," - the captain hesitated an in-
stant, with a hopeless look, while he swallowed down something
which seemed to stick in his throat, and then he pushed reso-
lutely on, with his fist clenched, which he wagged up and down
at every fresh "seven" like an industrious pump-handle,-
"'seven lambs, seven he-goats, seven bullocks 1' There, Ved-
der, I feel better ! I've been stifiin' them cretturs and keeping

SONSIE AND JAN VISIT THE CHILDREN.           385
them under all the while ; now I've had it out wid'em, and my
Mind's relieved. I feel better. I never was so bothered, I
vam! Just as-soon as I pitch up. that sharp seven, off I go !"
The captain put on his nose-nippers, and took down his
family Bible.
"Now, I kinder hanker after Bible names. There ! here's the
chapter. Zerubbabel the son of Shealtial, and Jethron, Jerahiah,
Jeremiah, and Bethpeor, and Ashdoth Pisgah; and Bethjesh-
imoth." Captain Slocum took off his glasses, and tapped the
page with them.  "There, by Jemima! the long names in
that chapter's thicker'n hairs on a cat. What do you think on
'em?"
"Rather wanting in sweetness, a little jaw-breaking, are they.
not, captain?"
" Well, I don't know but what mebbe they be," replied he,
with a discouraged air; "we'll look furder."
" I wish you would let me name them," said Sonsie.
" There, come ! you shall! You found 'em, and you shall
name 'em. That's fair, ain't it, Jan ? "
" Better be careful, sir; you will have a lot of young Patricks
about your place -not able to kill snakes - if you trust her."
"And is that the fashion of gentlefolks' manners, to turn the
tongue against the blessed land?" said Sonsie, with her- head
up. "The true Irish boys are brave as lions and gentle as
doves ; and I don't know a sweeter name i the whole world,
sure, than 'Morris !' It just melts on the lips like the love-
song of the wood'quest."
Jan ughtit did on hers, at any rate; so he said,-
"What is it, Sonsie ?  Say it again."
Morris, sir. ArV ye are not able to gainsay me either, nor
match it among all yer Dutch things, that tears the mouth to
pieces entirely."
g3.


386   SONSIE AND 7AN VISIT THE CHILDREN.
"Very good! very, indeed!" remarked the captain, approv-
ingly. "Go on, Sonsie."
" Well, sir, then there's Terrence -only a true, kind boy
should bear that - and'tis s re and certain, in the home that
you and Miss Dulcet give, y n lad he will learn to carry him.
self upright and strong."
"Thanks, Miss Eagan ! What a girl she -is, ain't she, Jan ?
Yes, indeed, 'upright and-strong;' that's capital ! Two of them
named and clenched,--now for the third."
"How could you fancy 'Jan,' for a change ?" asked Sonsie,
her curling lashes touching her delicately pencilled brows, as
she lifted her blue eyes archly to the young man at her side.
"Ye couldn't choose the name of a truer gentleman."
Done, my girl! bravely done!" sang out the captain, 'seiz.
ing both her hands and shaking them.
Jan's cheek flamed through the dusky sun-brown, and his
pulse leaped, but only for one instant; he reflected that if there
were hidden in Sonsie's breast the shy love he desired to have
there, she could never name him so lightly.
"Now, there's that angel of patience up there ; what shall we
do about him?"
"Let him choose for himself, sir. Perhaps he remembers
his own that his mother gave him. I'll go fetch -him, till he tells
us."
She stepped lightly off, and soon returned, leading the hump--
back boy by the hand. ";He says he thinks he was Clarence,
before he got' his fall and this," touching his misshapen-shoul.
ders softly; "he -seems to remember it, and hedreaiq Lfen.
times of a pretty lady."
"'Well, my boy," said the captain, very kindly, " will you
choose that for your name, now."

"THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AT OLD FOOL.' 387

"May I have what I like, sir ?" asked the cripple, clinging
fast to Sonsie's hand, and looking sedately into her face.
" Certainly, child, any thing you say."
"Then let me be called by her name, sir, if you please" -he
spoke in a low, plaintive voice, which had always a memory of
suffering in it. " This loveliest, pretty one, that looked heaven
into my eyes when I was dying ; let me have her name for
mine. I'm going to be a good boy, sir, while I stay, and I'll
be sure never to blacken it with a dirty spot."
Sonsie gazed down at him an instant, her deepening violet
eyes drinking up the pensive sweetness of the look he fixed
upon her, and then she flamed crimson red, and trembled all
over, and her tears gushed out like a summer shower, and she
sank down on the floor, and took him close in her arms. "Oh,
my dear Lord Christ ! how good, to let me live that day, and
help in this blessed work," sobbed she.
Captain Slocum and Jan walked away, and I could not
swear that there were no tears in their eyes, as they left the
'humpbacked cripple ..and the beautiful maiden -the two
"Sonsie's" -'together.

CHAPTER XXXVII.
"THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."
HE widow Goldsmith was "cleaning up." It was,Fri
day. She always scrubbed and scoured on Friday. It
was part of her religion, as much as the Great Tribula.
tion or Fast Day, and she had just come upon Chris's Penny
Magazines, and poundedthem together, and stood glowering at
them, when she heard a knock at the door.

tl
l  i
4;
t
"5+ ,
'1,
(
}  '
r
+}
f
i
a
S,
s


388    ""TAIERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOt.L"
" I believe I'll burn 'em up. I hate the sight on 'em," said
she, through the blue slit she used for talking, as she stalked off
to glare upon the intruder.
It proved to be a peddler, - a great, tall fellow, whose striped
trousers were tucked into his rusty boots ; who wore a long-
tailed coat, high-crowned battered stove-pipe, a check neck-tie,
twisted loosely around his neck, and a reddish beard, reaching
his waist, reddishshaggy eyebrows, and a stiff, sandy crop stick-
ing straight out, all around his head. He' was freckled like
the spotted pard, and tanned the color of a well-done sheep-
skin,
" Want to buy any tin-ware, marm ?" (nasally) "I've come
from Bosting, by the way of New Having, with a load of tin
ovings, in my one-horse wagging."
The widow was just about to slam the door in his face as
the quickest and most emphatic mode of reply, when she
pricked up her ears, catching at one of his offers.
"S wap for.old close, old rags, old ingy-rubbers, old books !"
She eyed askance they volumes which were dear' treasures to
her only, daughter. She held a couple in her hand; and there
were twelve of them all together, and the pious old lady smiled
a grim, forbidding smile.
" Old books, hey? - and what'll ye give for books - nice
ones, full of pictures.? Peddlers are the biggest cheats agoin';
I shan't throw away my libry, Ican tell yu ! -"
"Why, Lord bless you, ma'am, I wouldn't take in a new-
born baby, and I don't believe you would nurther, by your
looks (from the told, I mean)," said he, to himself. "Bring
along yer 'vollums, ma'am. ''I expect we can make a:Trade !
I've got basins, pans, skimmers, collanders, any thing. Whoa,
there, youi old she-devillyou " i
The widow started back involuntarily. . The' peddler, though

"THERE'S. NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."       889
addressing his horse, toward whom he was looking, had shouted
his adjuration into her unwilling ears like the crack of doom.
't You can holler loud enough, I should hope !" said she,
staring indigiaantly at him, and feeling of her left auricle.
" I hef to, marm,, my old mare is so. gall-darned ugly. She
run away 'tother day and spilt out all my tinware on the'road,
I shan't be able to sell any more skimmers on that rout for six
months, on account of them the youngsters picked up and toted
home to their ma's. They glutted the market. Stan' still, can't
ye ! I'll tell ye what, marm; spoken you rig on your bunnet,
and come deawn to the gate, where I can give her a yank once
in a while ; and I cacalate we'll make a scrumptious trade.
Bring along a sample-of your books, tu. I du luv ter fix up a
bargain with a real smart woman. There's that pesky critter --
Lord ! how she rattles my tinware ! I'll go along deawn and
lick her till you come."
He shambled off with a long lope, brandishing his whip, and
addressing his mare by a string of pet names, of which "blunde-
bore " and "stick-in-the-mud " were perhaps the sweetest.
The widow tied up her head, took three or four of the
dear old books (Fred's gift to his curly-haired darling), stalked
stiffly off, and was soon engaged in bargaining and haggling.
"Well ! " she exclaimed, at length, " I never see a fellar that
could cough and hem so loud as you do! I sh'd think you'd
rasp your throat all to bits, scrapin' on't so all the while."
"I've got a drefful cold, mrm ! I slept in the field last night
with the gate open, and it settled on my lungs, I'm afraid.
AHEM!
" Little nervous, ain't you ? well here's a stew pan to bile yer
catnip and tansy in -thutty.ceants in trade."
The old rose-bush close to the kitchen door rattled, nd Son-
sie Eagan darted out. She glanced quickly down the avenue,
88*


390-   "THERA'S    O FOOL LIXE AN OLD FOOL."
where the peddler's "ahems" roared off at intervals, and lifting
the latch, she entered the house, and flew swiftly up the stairs,
"Why! there's my 'white angel's ' trunk, sure enough! The
lyin' old woman, to say she'd put it up garret!"
She was passing Chris's door on her way upward, and she
stopped, and entered the room; the rosy-gray dresses, the pale'
poplins, white aprons, trim shoes, round hats, etc., which had
filled the trunk, were spread out on the dismantled bed; and
it was the work of .a few minutes for the ambidextrous maiden
to fold and replace them, which she did even to a bit of ribbon
and a stray hair-pin she found on the floor. She locked the
trunk, pulled it toward the window, softly raised the sash, lifted
the heavy thing by main strength, and then stood irresolutely
balancing it half-in, half-out.
"rFve heard that these sole-leather ones can be pitched out
of a third-story window without hurting them, but if this should
burst open ! I'm afraid to risk it. Ah ! there's a rope 1"
Letting her burden easily down, she took from the wall,
among cards, hetchels, and other kitchen gear (the widow felt
a spiteful pleasure in using Chris's room as a store-place for
cast-offs), a clothes-line, tied it to the trunk-handle, and then
to the old bedstead, leaving a little slack to start on, and
dropped it as carefully as she could down above the lilacs.
The peddler's voice reached her, and his "ahem " was so threat.
ening, that she let it slip through her hand.. Down it went with
a run; the bedpost creaked and groaned, and the rope parted.
Sonsie looked fearfully out. " And you can !" said she, tri-
umphantly ; "there,'tis as safe as a lady-bug in a rose-bud."
The young girl had just latched the kitchen door behind her,
acid was standing on the broad step-stone, when the widow,
her arms full of pans and basin, turned the corner and faced
her.

"THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."        S38I
" What do you want ?" inquired she.
"I came, ma'am, to see after Miss Chris's little trunk, and
to bdg you to let me take it up to her," said Sonsie, humbly.
"She didn't send me ; but I felt so sorry for the dear young lady,
among all those fine-dressed gentlefolks up at the guard-house,
I was sure you would kindly give me leave to get it for her."
" Oh ! that's your arrant, is it? Well, you may tell the dear
young lady" (mimicking Sonsie's manner), "that when she's
come back and begged my pardon on her knees, and rolled up
her sleeves, and put in and worked and airnt 'em, PIl see about
it. Now you've got an arrant back, and you may trot and
carry it as soon as you like."
The widow's eye blinked black and sly as. she looked at
Sonsie. She felt sure that her daughter was deeply mortified,
and would be obliged to return and beg for mercy; and she
had a quiver full of texts all ready for firing at her,
"Ohplease, ma'am, don't send that word by me ; I couldn't
bear the sorrow in her two eyes, so soft and kind, brimming over
wid grief. I pray you to be merciful. She's a sweet darling
entirely. Sure 'tis a blessing from  God, such a beautiful
daughter !"
" Well, I declare fort! A wicked messenger falleth into
mischief. A fool uttereth all his mind.-Proverbs xiii. 17. I've
had enough of you; take yourself off."
"What's the marter, marn?" asked the peddler, who was
coming up with the balance of the trade; "hired girl runnin'
off?"
"No, 'tis her daughter, the loveliest white angel! as. beauti-
ful as a flax-flower. - I entreat this mother to be kind to her
daughter."
" "1r daughter !" said the peddler, looking incredulously up


89 . "THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."
and down the widow, and, stopping his eyes upon her wrinkled'
visage, -".'white angel,!'. oh, shaw! get out !"
Mrs. Goldsmith conned his application of Sonsie's statement
in grim rage.
"If you don't start, I'll take the broomstick to you ! you
Irish hussey1". said she.
"Come, come ! old woman; fetch the rest of them volumes.
I'll be jogging before you females come to blows. I like cock-
fights, and I think I should admire to witness a bull-fight; but
a woman-fight ! - I'd rather shuffle off."
" You may tell the 'white angel' I've sold her magazines for
paper-rags," said the widow, jocosely, as she brought out the
books, and threw them down upon the door-stone ; "there they
be 1,nowshuffleoff, both on ye!"
Shelaughed with.such music as a creaking grindstone makes,
as she slammed the door and bolted it. Coming round to the
window, after a little, she stopped and squinted out.
"Seems as if I see a box or sunthin' ! What in the land
of the living they got there, histin' up into the cart ! some truck
or other he's been swappin' for, I s'pose. Well ! the idea of
sendin' that Irish hussey to me / I wonder if, she thought she
could coax me /" (up went the widow's case-knife nose). "I'll
burn up them, dads, lock, stock, and barrel, before I'll let her
have 'em to flaunt up there in ! 'Sorry for her,' hey ? We4l,
she'll be sorry for herself afore she's done with me. I'll bring
her down on her marrow-bones !"
"If you should be sick,"- what ailed the widow that she
epuld not get rid of those few simple words,--" If you should be
sick?" The lonely, room, the pale, helpless creature, stretched
there to die ; ~no daughter love attending her. She gave the
chair an unpleasant shove, as she turned from the window.
" Eleven o'clock!i I'll have my season of prayer afore I pick -

"TA'iEE  NO F001 LIKE AN OLD FOOL."      893
over the beans. Let me see, where was 1! Oh ! Isaiah xiii.
6: 'Howl ye, for the day of the . Lord is at hand ! and the
gladness is talken away, and joy out of the fruitful field; and in
the vineyards there shall be no' singing, neither shall there be
any shouting ! the treaders shall tread no wine in the presses.'"
While the widow was enjoying her,comfortable doctrine, the
peddler and Sonsie were driving gayly up the glen road, with
Chris's trunk among the "tin .ovings," behind them.
" Well, Ollam Folda, how do you like me in my new-charac-
ter of Connie Sougah?" asked he, pulling off his stove-pipe,
and feeling carefully of his sandy crop.
" I think you are just splendid, siri As impudent and full of
blarney as Barney hisser, and that is high praise."
"Could you fancy playing Katie to me?      She was a
sprightly lass, all mirth and pathos, just like you, Sonsie; and
as stubborn as Ollam Folda, too.
In a corner ofrmy heart, which nobsdy can see,
Two eyes of Irish blue are always peeping out at me."
Sonsie seemed not to notice the earnest face of the speaker,
but she took up his song, and trolled it out so clear, that the
deep solitudes of the grassy-glen repeated kindly the echo.
" I wish ye'd take off all that hair and stuff, sir.". Sure I
like your .face just. as your mother knows it, too well to look
at it thus ; and if ye'd just stop by this clear brooklet, and
give it a scrub or so, I'll hold the peddler's horse for ye, the
while" (reaching out hands coaxingly toward the lines); "I
think it was a shame of ye, all the ugly names ye threw at this
pretty creature, the morn-! -Ollam Folda is bad enough, in es-
pecial, when you fit it on to a Christian lassie."
" The colt is honored, Sonsie, because he got his name o a
sprightly-maidexb and the old king was avery handsome felkow-


894    HERE'SS NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."
nearly seven feet high, and a true Milesian, everybody knows;
and his title fell upon as pretty a creature, to my eye, as ever
tripped among the daisies ; and the first letters of her old name
are Sonsie Eagan."
"Come, Mr. Jan,"interrupted she, "let me hold yer horse till
ye wash off the brick-dust from your face ; 'tis clear that ye are
not able to speak the truth, with it lyin' so thick on your lips."
" First tell me that you will play Katie-; and if you promise
fair, I'll let-you drive your namesake, and -make him' step out
his best."
"I think.I could, sure, if I tried, sir ; I'd have to learn how
first ; and do*ye mind how she danced the night, as light as a
thistle-down that. floats amongst the lilies.  Oh, that was a
brave evening, indeed, sir; better than the other, when Barney
made- such a fool of hisself, in bringing the Irish folks into
ridicule."
Another opportunity lost. Jan felt like a coward ; when
he had had the words all ready, and not been able to utter
them ; but, poor fellow, her ripe mouth touched up into mis-
chievous archness; her positive, self-asserting head, cocked a
little on one side, and her merry eyes looking so modest-bold
into the depths of his, were confusing, and the golden minute
went by unused. - He would not wash his face, though, tilr he'
had finished his work.
Deb was sitting in her kitchen, like a house-god, with her
hands fixed on her knees, and she rose and stepped to the
door, in answer to their breezy call.
"Here we are, Debby, acushla, ' snug as a pea in a pod '
called out Sonsie, clapping her hands in glee. "Come, give us
a lift, and we'll just flit it up close and fast, before anybody
knows tY
"Well, I never !" ejaculated Deb. ."I wouldn't like to be

HERE'SS NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."        895
you, and that dame at my back. She'll'pin you with her eyil
eye, now, I'm  afraid, before ye're done. Did ye coax and
wheedle, and 'she eltin' away with her awsome scriptures, till
ye tired her down;, or did ye break open the place, and carry
it out with a high hand?"
" We managed, Debby dear. Sure Mr. Jan is the one for
charmin' the old ladies ; he'd steal the sweet notes out of the
song-bird's throats, and they sleepin'."
Jan blushed through his brick-dust, and fully made up his
mind to charm a "yes " from the girl- he loved, before he was a
week older, and was thinking how to do it, when she came out
again.
" All safe and done, Mr. Peddler."
"Yes; but here are the books, Sonsie." He handed out the
magazines. "Is it true that those are the cherished treasures of
her daughter, which the old lady has traded off for tin-ware?"
" Yes, sir, they are. Miss Chris showed them to me a thous-
and times, and her own papa gave them. I've watched her
touch them tenderly, with her pretty hands, as I'd linger me
beads; and 'tis thrue for you, they're full of beautiful idication
intirely."
"Well, Sonsie," said Jan, with a visage 'of absolute disgust,
"if you want my opinion upon a theological doctrine, I'll give
it freely. I believe that the widow Goldsmith. will toast her
feet at the good fire, that they don't rake up nights, in the con-
genial society of Judas Iseariot, Esq."
"If ye think that, Mr. Vedder, it will be a good place for
ye to put some of your money, in masses to help ;her out of
Purgatory," said Sonsie, slyly.
"Purgatory I You don't believe any such trash as that, do
you, Sonsie? And if it was Gospel truth, why should I help
that old lady ?"


390    "THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."
" The fourth motive for praying for the dead, laid down in
onr catechism, is our own interest; because the souls deliv-
ered by our prayers will intercede for us before God, and aid
to get us out of Purgatory, when our time comes.  That is
what it says."
" Well it don't say true, then ! and I'll tell you why. A bass-
wood tree that you cut down to-day don't get to be a sugar.
maple to-morrow, just because it has lain on the ground all
night; and a treacherous, lying human soul, }that quits its body
today, won't be an angel to-morrow; no, nor the day after, nor
the, millennium after. If you burn a bass-wood tree, you get
bass-wood ashes; and burning the soul of the widow, a thous-
and years or so, is not going to change the quality of it. 'If
she got out of Purgatory, and St. Peter let her in through .the
pearly gateshe would be Widow Goldsmith still, and she'd
cross and, rack her- daughter as fierce as ever, if she got the
chance. Pain never purifies anybody. Penances don't count.
People get tired of suffering, and are glad to get rid of it; but
as forcleansing ! there's only one way for the healing of the na-
tionsg,,and that is the atonement Christ made forus all. That's.
so, Sonsie, just as sure as you're handsome ! all the masses this
side of the New Jerusalem won't cleanse a single stain."
The young girl took up.the books thoughtfully, and walked
off, with her arrps full; and Jan's earnest words so unexpected,.
both in tone and quality, still possessed her soul, when she laid
them in the tower-room, and even while she explained the rea-
son of their being there.
Poor Chris's sense of fun was tickled with the adventure, and
she laughed merrily, at first. But the sorrow came presently
to the surface. Her position, shut out of her father's house,
unloved, haken off; and she sat down and took a little cry, and
Sonsie come out strong as~ comforter, and Deb trotted up to

"THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL!"

tell them that the peddler's horse was getting restive, and Son-
sie, after a last hand-kiss, came down as bright and fresh as a
rose-bud.
"Come, Mr. Tin Oving, what'll I give ye to bring down me
box to Mrs. Blair's, along wid yer skimmers and things ? Shall
it be a sixpence, then ? "
"Yes, I'll do it for a Yankee sixpence, Ollam Folda," replied
Jan, laughing.
" Cheap enough, isn't it, Debby dear," said Sonsie, with the
reflective air of one who drives a hard bargain ; "and ye'll en-
gage to lave itself up stairs, and not be tiring out me hands
wid the weight of it."
"Certainly ; on the top of the house, if you say so."
"Don't ye think, Debby dear, that living along with the cute
deacons and things is makin' me sharp at a contract?"
"Don't let Mr.Vedder cheat you, Sonsie, girl," replied Deb;
"look at the mischief in his eyes; he means a kiss."
"And is it a kiss, sir ! If ye wish to be sweet friends wid me,
ye must keep yer saucy tongue from such jests;" retorted
the young maid, blushing like a red, red rose, as she walked
off with her head up. Pretty soon she descended swiftly,
showing an alarmed face.
"I've lost me beautiful brooch !" said she. "I've tossed out
all me things, and searched the whole place, and not a sight of
it can Isee !
"Nonsense, child !" Deb answered, stoutly, "'tis on your
twilight. I saw it there with my. own eyes; and what's more, I
took it into my hand, and looked at the glistening sheen of it."
"I wish ye spake truth, Debby dear, as I knowlye meant;
but 'tis not there at all; and so bonnie and green as it was;
and such kind words as .I got wid it from Mr. Craigenfels!
Oh, dear.! whatever'll 1 do I"
84

1


398    "THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."
Jan looked curiously at her, wondering if she knew the value
of the gem.
"Never mind, Sonsie. I daresay we can find its fellow at the
jeweller's below ; don't fret after it ; how much did it cost, think
you?"
'-Sure, sir, I niver asked. It was for the pleasantness of the
pretty day, and the kindness of the giver, that I valued it; not
for the bit of money in it! A couple of dollars, it might be, or
so, I suppose. I'll ask the young ladies did. they see it, and
very soul on the place, till I get it, because St. Patrick hisself
knows it didn't walk off alone."
Belle Brandon was coming proudly down the broad piazza,
dressed for a drive, and Uncle Alec, hat in hand, was keeping
pace with her, chatting pleasantly, The glamour of her
charms was about him. The harmony of her motions, of her
well-chosen attire; the faint odor of heliotrope which she al-
ways wafted around her ; the musical ripple of her graceful
conversation; and the thousand nameless charms men found
in her presence, - were telling upon the kind old fellow, who
neither sought nor shunned his guest, but who, thoroughly en-
joyed what she lavishly bestowed upon him.
Sonsie walked straightup to her.
"Miss Belle, did ye see me green brooch any place?"
"What do you mean by such impertinence ?" demanded
Belle, haughtily. "Where could I possibly see any belongings
of yours, pray? except upon your robust personjwhich I will
trouble you to remove out of my path), where I certainly
should not give myself the pains to examine them." -
Uncle Alec was amused with Sonsie's direct appeal, so un-
conscious of the affront on the face of it; and he also could not
helg admiring Belle's superb attitude of disdainful anger, even
while he was obliged to disapprove rather of her reply.. "Edu-

"THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."

399

cation to blame," thought he; "and how transparently she
shows all her feelings - artless girl!1"
"Your winged words fly home more Hibernico, Roukie,"
said he, quietly. " I don't imagine your emerald fairing is lost
past recovery; those trifles have a trick of slipping out of sight
occasionally. You will find it, never fear ; only set your Irish
eyes peering into corners."
"Indade, then, sir, I wish I had 'em as sharp as the Kelpie
queen, that can see into the dark sea-caves, and lighten up so
plain that folks are able to spy the tiny shells and fishes down
there, and the elfin children, and all; and 'tis thrue for ye, if
they'd look upon Miss Brandon once you could read ivery
thought inside of her. Ah, wisha ! if she'd but rise in her  st
mantle out of yon lake, and come amongst us, before the dy
were a mint elder."
UncleAlec smiled benignantly upon the blonde, counting
the statement a choice compliment,; but there was something
so like a threat in Sonsie's face that Belle felt half afraid of her,
and she said with a pretty gushing smile, -
" How full of odd superstitions these emerald Catholics are,
sir !'
"Superstitions, is it ! and there's not a true Irish girl livin'
but would scorn the dirty tricks I've seen a lady do ; and the
lyin', decavin' words I've caught off her tongue, and she lookin'
like peaches and cream the whilst."
Sonsie wheeled about, and Belle waited till she was out of
ear-shot, before she said, easily, -
"Depend upon it, Mr. Craigenfels, that girl knows what
she's doing. She has either sold your beautiful brooch, or
given it away to some clod-hopping lover. ' There's no end of
deceit and tricking in those creatures."
Uncle Alec,cwith the heir of Brookedge in his mind, laughed

I,


400    "THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE-AN OLD FOOL."
at the "clod-hopping lover," and was at considerable trouble to
correct the young lady's fixed impressions concerning the serv-
ing class, which, however, he thought sat rather prettily upon
her, taking the form of dainty patrician prejudices ; and he
reasoned and jested, and she listened archly, and accepted the
role, and permitted herself to be gracefully convinced, and con-
fessed to an awakened interest in the subject she had never
experienced before, which of course was education again; and
she looked bewitching when she exclaimed, " Oh, do tell me,
sir, something I can do here. My mission people, at home,
were so dirty and stupid, I must own, they did disgust me."
The jolly peddler had heard the talk from his seat among the
skimmers and pans, and his eyes laughed as he climbed .down
and shambled towards the aristocratic pair, who were waiting
for Black Tramp and the phaeton. His whip was stuck under
his arm, and his rusty hat tilted- over his left ear, as he
scratched hissandy crop.
"Want to buy any tin notions, marm?  I've come all the
way from Bosting, in my one-horse wagging, with a lot of tin
ovings."
"Now, really, Mr. Craigenfels, you must not scold my hyper-
delicacy, if I withdraw a. little from this specimen of Yankee
vulgarity, which stands out all over him, like the quills upon
the fretful porcupine. Ah, sir, your doctrine is tottering;
surely no educating process could ever bring a gentleman out
of such material," - Belle stepped back and drew up her robe.
"Now, my dear young lady !" expostulated Uncle Alec,
how are you going to bear the rough places in life, if you
shrink away so, like my mimosas, from all coarse off-shoots of
fallen humanity ?"  But while he talked, Belle knew that he
did not the less admire her for her daintiness.

Jill

"TBERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."

401

"Skimmers, basins, toasting-forks 1" continuedthe persistent
peddler.
Uncle Alec waved him off.
" No, no, my good fellow ; I'm afraid you are on a fool's
errand to-day. Perhaps I ought -to apologize ; but really I
don't want any thing in your.particular line. Deborah !"
"Fool's arrant! no sir-ee! I kum in special to fetch up a
trunk for my particular friend, Miss Goldsmith, and she's far
from a fool. She's got the chist all safe, but I feel it my dooty
to be diligent -in business. No offence to that young woman,
I hope ; she didn't think I was arter her, did she ? not if I
know myself. She does stick up that little nose of her the
darndest!"
"Astonishing, sir, how our dear old Chris makes choice of
such odd particular friends, is it not ? You really ought to
lecture her, as well as poor little me," said Belle, maneuvring
her eyes; "but with that originality she prides herself so much
upon, oue never knows what she may do next. Some' of her
school experiences were rather remarkable. I must tell you
some time about a picture Chandy made of her."
Uncle Alec lost half the value of Belle's. speech, and the
lissomnes of her supple notions, which she saw a good chance
to display, floating down. the steps to pluck a purple hyacinth,
which she placed in her bosom. -.He heard Chris's voice, and
he stepped to the stair-foot, that he might get a look at his
little pet, and pall her " Daught, Queen Pansy-Fredrika," and
so on, out of tie abundance of his great kindness and sympa-
thy; and he came out again, just in time to hear the peddler
make Belle an offer.
-"If ye'aud like a lift deaun to teaun, marm, -you seem to'
be kinder hangin' on, waitin' for somebody to pick you up, -
I don't mind takin' you.in my cart along; plenty of room. I'm
34*

~


402 THERE'SS NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."
a feller that's allus willin' to do a neighbor a turn, specially for
a sprightly creatur; and you look kinder like;a girl I used to'
know. I give her a ring with a red stone in it; mebby your
spark gin you yourn."
"Spark !" exclaimed Belle. "I do not comprehend your
low expression; but though 'tis of no consequence to you, I
will inform you that my ruby.is an heirloom --has been in our.
family for several generations."
The jolly peddler laughed.
"Is that so ?" said he, "Well, when I was a boy, I read in
my old English Reader a cute story about a Palace of Truth.
I should like to see you in it. You'd feel kinder queer,
wouldn't you? Well, it looks pretty on your little finger, and
you are welcome to it. You won't ride in my cart ! Well,
never mind; here's a hansum girl that spriggin' up ; can't make
any hansumer: 'I guess I'll ask her instid."
" Thanks, brave Connie Sougah," said Sonsie, springing up.
"I shall be very grateful for the lift. Good-by, Mr. Craigen-
fels."
They rattled full tilt down the avenue, the-"tin ovings" clat-
tering behind them; and while Uncle Alec was laughing at the
amazing grandeur of Belle's reception of the-peddler's advances,
which is beyond all my word-painting, he snapped his fingers.
" Of course it is,"-said he. "Why didn't I see it before?
Some bit of fun; and Sonsie with him.  Deborah!" he called
out, as, having seated the blonde in the phaeton, he drove up
to the. kitchen door, " Deborah, wasn't that Mr. Jan Ved-
der?"S
"Yes, sir, it were. He and Sonsie got Miss Chris's clothes
$ut of the old lady by a merry trick, which was their errand up
here to fetch them. They are a heartsome pair- of children,

"=THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."        403
sir, and a good morning's work that they did. Miss Chrissie is
all right, now, sir!'"
Uncle Alec forgot, in listening to Deb's story, all Jan's talk
with the beauty at his side, who exerted her varied powers to
fix his every thought upon herself, and certainly he passed a be-
wilderingly delightful morning.
As they were driving through Gonecusset Street, Belle leaned
forward, and clasped her hands in lovely rapture.
" There is Mary Ann Williams, Mr. Craigenfels ! Do let
me speak to her !"
Of course Uncle Alec drew rein instantly, and was ,really
pleased with the beauty's enthusiastic fondness for her friends.
"Dearest Millithy Nilithy !" she called, in musical accent,
"come right directly, and say how d'ye to your own Belle. Are-
you not glad to see me ? So hard-hearted of you not to run up
and kiss me, the instant I got home - to Craigenfels, I mean "
(a gushing blush, a bewitching apology with her soft hand laid
lightly upon the large white one of her' host); "but I know
you're married, and I must congratulate you. Of course, you
have got the most wonderful husband, haven't you? and he is
not Cabby, after all. Oh, you naughty, flirting Millithy! I
must positively scold you, for your inconstant trifling with that
youth's-tender heart."
Mrs. Nickson's cheek got paler, and she shrank away, as from
a deadly serpent; and Belle who made the opportunity to show
off her gushingness and her dimples and her voice and her
lovingness, went on, -
" Come, darling, and tell me where to find you; Imust talk
up old times ! 'Do you live in this handsome place ?"
"Yes -I do; I have but just returned ;" answered Mary
Ann, with some effort :- "but I do not wish you to come here,
or to speak to me; you and I are strangers. I don't think I'


404    "THIARE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL,"
could do you any good, and I fear that you have still some
power to do me harm; I am sorry that I have seen you, because
your face is like a dreadful nightmare to me."
She drew dow~ her veil, and walked inside her gate, and hid
herself behind her own door, as from.a hateful enemy.
Belle darted a quick look at the gentleman by her side, wh
was mentally comparing the two types of womanhood and
who fastened his eyes upon the banker's wife in stern dis-
pleasure.
Though she had not calculated upon such a reception, ex.
pecting to impress her foil with her elegance, and also counting
that the passiveness of the subdued girl would prevent her
bfeaking out before strangers, even if she still cherished re-
sentment for the past, she saw by Uncle Alec's face that she
need not despair of making capital out of the scene, and she
sank back with a stifled cry, and covered her eyes.
"Oh, sir, do take me away !" she murmured, faintly; "I'm
so hurt !  And that girl was my friend; she used to cling
around my neck.. But times are changed now; I am not useful
any more. Iam poor -she shakes me off. Oh, dear Mr.
Craigenfels, do take me home, to your home, and let me hide
myself."
The kind old fellow put his arm around the suffering child,
and she did hide her face, -curls, dimples, and all, -upon
his ample waistcoat; and it took a deal of comforting to soothe
her ruffled feelings. She. executed no end of'pretty childish
exclamations, "with her rich voice luting soft," and graceful
gestures; and raised her eyes, tear-wet and imploring, and
manoeuvred her lips, tremulous with the depth of her sorrow;
and she brought out brighter the peachy-bloom of" her right
cheek with a dexterous little pinch, so that the afituent gorgeous
ness of her beauty was something bewildering;. and I am afraid

"THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."

405

Deb would have looked very sourly upon the pair, out of her
common-sense eyes, and said once again, " There's no fool like
an old fool," had she been an eyewitness of the proceedings.
And really Miss Brandon accomplished a good deal for one
morning. First she improvised a sprightly account of her
friendship with Mrs. Nickson, which was a credit to her inven-
tive genius. She did -the "friendless orphan" " trusting, un-
protected innocence," "lonely poverty," and was absolutely
artistic in each. She couldn't attend dearest Zoe's wedding--
no dress : her ugly, cross, old ogre of an aunt (the, ogre touched
up so elaborately, with heart-softening childish experiences,
that I doubt if the selfish, easy-going Tante Isadore, who was
simply a woman of fashion, would have recognized the picture,
or been able to rememberjall the horrid cruelties she had in
flicted upon her niece). "She hated poor little me, Mr. Craigen-
fels, simply because people said I was nice, as if that was my
fault !" etc.
Belle got sympathy, and caresses, and what she valued more
than all, -- she got lavish offers of everything that money could
buy; and better still, they two proceeded to the telegraph office,
and together wrote a despatch ordering from Madam Corsage
a costly dress, point-lace flowers, gloves, fan ; and she was so
witty and bright, that Uncle Alec considered buying woman's
gear by telegraph, the most delightful. of amusements, and still
kept on saying,*pendil in hand, with genial, enjoying face,
"What next, my dear?   Now do try to think of something
more."
After the long list was complete, Belle pondered for one
instant the .feasibility of mentioning diamonds, in case she
should finally have to take Zambrano; but she-thought better
of it, and laughingly assured hin that even a wishing-ing could
do no more for her, and Watched the process of appending the


406 "THERE'S NO FOOL LIXE AN OLD FOOL."
banker's- order, in a pleasing state of childish ecstacy.  Ah,
Deb, what do you think now ?-and such a long-headed, far.
sighted gentleman too! Yes, Miss Brandon's pulse beat high;
she was very near her . object, -- money, money, plenty of
money. Like poor Miss Kilmanseg with her auriferous leg, the
beauty's dream was of "gold, gold, gold ; bright and yellow,
and hard and cold !" and "really," she speculated, while fur.
tively studying her host's face,
"Really, the husband-incumbrance I shall be forced to take
with it is not so very bad, all things considered. Of course,
Zambrano is handsome, of the dark style who would make
me look fairer by contrast when I lean on his arm, and there.
fore a very becoming husband to have; and he is passably
rich. But he sinks into insignificance when I compare him
with this Mexican mine ; and then Zambrano is so frightfully
jealous, and this golden bowl of an old gentleman she [smiled as
she thought how pat was her description of Uncle Alec's rotund
figure] possesses the blandest and most manageable of tem-
pers."  Ah ! she had never seen him roused by injustice or
duplicity; she did not know how his standard demanded abso-
lute truth, -absolute purity, in his beloved ones, especially
women; and as for going on to a Cuban plantation, - that was
out of the question.
"What were joys of the Pastoral kind
To a bride town-made-heart and mind,
Of simplicity never a lover?
Who hated lanes, and who hated fields,
Who hated all that the country yields-
And barely knew turnips from clover."
Miss Brandon, had a secret plan, which she scarcely dared
breathe to herself; it required such delicatenanipulation.
There were so many about her who knew her thoroughly, and

"THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."            407
who did not love her, - Mary Ann, for instance, who had turned
like the worm that objects to being trodden on, that very morn-
ing; and that Sonsie ! she was afraid of nothing, and wakefully
dangerous; and Ruth Blair ! she had ascertained, to her exceed-
ing satisfaction, that she was out of the way, time of absence
unlimited.  Any one of these, and many more, might drop.
words into Uncle Alec's ears, at some chance moment, which
would effectually blast her prospects; and she was inly anxious
and unceasingly restless, beneath her sprightly careless gushing,
ness, till she could fairly sit down at ease in the. position she
was working for.  And as to Zambrano! -"Oh, may some
kind mishap tie him close, - a little fever, or the small-pox,
till it is over, and he cannot help himself!" she.thought, as she
parted with her host in the wide hall of the grand old place she
meant to own. Such a look as she gave the dear old fellow!
such a dainty, delicate, modest little hand-squeeze before she
floated off; and such a kiss as she threw him from -the stair-
head, bending her radiant face, and smiling!t Oh, well, never
mind; don't talk about it. While she sat in front of her cheval-
glass, she let her imagination revel among her coming pleasures,
close at hand, almost sure, - their town-house, opera-hox,
jewels, her Paris trip; and it were a pity, for the- sake of the
true heart she was capturing, to have to add, her many admirers.
And she turned her neck "regal white," and cast about her
disdainful glances,-and caressed her creamy arms, and smiled.
You never saw such a smile ! such steely blue eyes!-
"And she dons her silken vestments white,
And tricks her hair in lovely plight,
And nothing doubting of her spell,"
she descends to keep watch over the treasure she fears to lose,
fully determined, to put herself; as much as possible, between
him and everybody else.


408    "THERE'S NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL."
In the self-same half-hour before dinner, Uncle Alec smoked
a cigar in the library; ,and seriously debated with himself the
question, -
" Have I a right to take this wonderful girl, so rich in charms,
so defenceless, so simple, to my heart, and shield her, and watch
her sweet blooming, and worship her?  Shall I be so selfish?
What have I to offer her?"o-
He got up, and strolled across the great room, and gazed at
the stout figure his mirror showed him, -the grizzled hair,
ruddy face, and powerful manhood which, at fifty, was his in
perfection; and while he felt it a pity that there certainly was
crows-feet at the corners of his eyes (he had never noticed.them
so plainly before, nor the other footprints of spiteful Time, all
over his youth), still he felt almost positive that the beauty liked
him, and as he heartily meant to gratify her in every wish she
could possibly devise, he very nearly made uphis mind that he
might at least give her the chance to say "no."  There could
be no harm in that, though he stroked his silky beard, while he
reflected on the say-so of the talkers, -- "June and November,"
and the like.. Well, he would leave it to the pretty child her-
self.. But if she. would of her own accord take his hand, and
nestle to his heart, his life should be her's -- his wealth, every
thing.

MR. OTHO GROENVELT BIDES HIS TIME.  409

CHAPTER. XXXVIIII
MR. OTHO GROENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME.
HE avenue between the elms was scarcely clear that
morning of the peddler's cart and the master's phae-
ton, before Sabrina's pony-carriage came sweeping
over its gravel, and that queenly lady and little brown Zoe de-
scended, bearing a square box, which they carried straight to the
tower-room, where they found our Chris busied in removing her
clothing from the trunk. In setting her belongings in order she
had come across.her golden comb; 'and both from a dear love
to its giver, - a sorrowful sweet thought of her happy journey
up to Rosenbloom, - and the freedom it gave her to work at
ease, she kissed it, and twined her curls around it, and fastened
them, leaving some luxuriant beauties to stray' over, and caress
it at will. Her face looked clear cut, her profile statuesque,
and her ,ears like little rosy shells. She had thrown aside her
sacque ; and her neck and round arms gleamed exceeding fair,
and Uncle Alec's chain of frosted gold and its tiny cross of
blue enamel caressed her bosom, and Max's bracelet of sap-
phires sparkled upon her arm; but she- was sorrowful and
disturbed. In fact, she was weeping bitterly. Her two, friends,
who knew every trick of her face, in every one 'of its changing
moods, pretended not to observe her tears while they kissed
her, because they saw that she wished to hide them ; and they
immediately undid the box and laid out its contents, talking
busily of the-approaching wedding.
"We've ordered your festal apparel, Chris, darling, because
we must have the third of our trio before the altar, when I
make an April-fool of myself; and is it nota love? We knew
'35i

r  ,


410  MR. OTHO, GROENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME.
you would be a 'white angel,' as Sonsie says, in pearl color.
There, I told you so !" - she added, gazing admiringly at the
loveliness before her, after she had fastened the last button.
"You are just as sweet as you can be, and live ! And Chris,
darling, you approve our selection, don't you?  You see Uncle
Alec told us to buy any thing we'd a mind for 'little pet.' He
just worships you, Chris. We get fearfully jealous some times,
I assure you."
"iDo you?" said Chris.  "Well, I'll tell you a secret. Deb
has been up here, sobbing and crying. She says Craigenfels is
to get a mistress, in the person of Belle Brandon; and though.
it will break her old heart to leave the old place, where her
Bessie used to skipple and frolic, she will never stay to see the
disgrace and misery she feels sure will be her kind master's
portion."
"Impossible !" exclaimed Sabrina, loftily. "Why, Uncle
Alec is a wise, sensible man !"
" I've thought about it myself," replied Zoe. "I know she
means to get him if she can. I wish with all my heart that
you'd gone to bed and to sleep, before you packed off to Wal-
lack's that night. All our troubles spring from your childish
passion for the drama; I couldn't bear to have her come to this
dear castle of ours ; it seems like profaning a shrine, to have
her plucking our flowers, reading our books, and generally dis.
porting herself in a place which we have always called our
chateau en Espagne; and as for seeing her Uncle Alec's wife I1
I don't feel as if I could possibly bear it."
"My darling soul, my- precious opal ! be 'assured, that the
idea is simply absurd. Why, Uncle Alec is as old as papa,
and Belle Brandon is a month younger than I am."
"4My Uncle Tom was-sixty-two, and he married his ward, who
was just sixteen," suggested Zoe.

MR. OTHO -GROENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME. 411
"Your Uncle Tom was a fool guo ad hoc. Not so dear
Uncle Alec. I shall not think of such a thing for an instant !"
"Oh, very well, ' dear, don't, then ; and I fervently hope
Uncle Alec won't think of it, either; and Chris, you must come
over the hills and far away with us. My pretties have all
arrived, and I intend'to pass this afternoon in trying them on ;
and we are to have the Vedders (and Sonsie, if Jan can coax
her) in the evening, and Uncle Alec, and, I suppose, the bete
noire, Belle Brandon ; and papa Bradshaw has promised to
bring his violin, and we will have some dancing. Only a few
more of our pleasant girl-gatherings, you know; oh dear, I
hope you won't count me out afterward, make me an odd
one."
Zoe fingered the flowers of her breast-knot, pulled to pieces
her ptnegranate, and scattered ruthlessly its scarlet petals.
"If I thought you would," she pouted, "I'd cut Peter adrift
now, and never get married at all."
1Ah ! how many a young girl has faltered, and trembled on
the threshold of her new life. Yea ! and how many have
entered it, to be tricked or tyrannized out of tleir rigfuihappi
ness.'
Sabrina went up and kissed the little nut-brown Gypsy, and
assured her that her place in the trio should never be vacant.
"Well! I hope so, and I'll have to trust you anyhow; be.
cause I could not get rid of that silly Peter if I tried it - he's
such a stick-tight t"
Zoe's eyes caught sight of a box on the table, and she flew
toward it, exclaiming, " Oh! what lovely something or other
have you got inside, Chris ? may I peep a little ?"
"Nay, my Eve, you may not."  Chris laid her hand upon
the cover. ."Bridle your curiosity, thou daughter of our
mother: the time is not yet." And so she kept her secret


412  MR. OTHO GRQENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME.
of a set of mouchoirs, beautifully wrought in monograms of
field-flowers, for the bride's cadeau.
"Well, of a truth, then, I may see this !"' She lifted a sketch
which her friend had but shortly before taken from her trunk,
in a frame of braided straw-work, so contrived' that both sides
of the card-board were visible.
" Chris ! perfect !" Chris about to utter some choice pro.
verb ; - "and -what ! whose work is this, pray ?" she ex.
claimed, indignantly. "Shameful, abominable."
"Oh, that is my skull and cross.bone," replied Chris, quietly.
"I kneel and pray before that every morning, though it is the
work of no saintly fingers."
"What does it mean, Chris ?"-
"This side means love and Chandy ; this, means Belle Bran.
don."
The girls exchanged glances.
" Tell us about it," said Zoe.
"I have heard something of that picture, Chris, darling ; but,
of course I could never mention it to you, unless you chose to
let me," observed Sabrina.
"But why didn't you tell me, then !" added Zoe, quickly.
"Because I never speak of such of my friends' affairs as I
think they desire shall not be made a subject of conversation."
Deborah entered with a plate - of tartlets for Chris and her
friends ; and that young lady put the good creature into an
easy-chair, and sat down on her lap, with one arm around het
neck while she ate.
"She lets me hold her," explained Deb, humbly, "because
she knows I love to. She's like my own sweet Bessie to me.
Hasn't she got the pretty neck and the bonnie white arm!
the dear" (patting her softly); and then she whispered in her
favorite's ear, " You should t ought to eat tartlets in -your wed.

MR. THO GROENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME. 413
ding. gown, darlin, cause. 'tis a hateful omen?_an besides, you
might spoil it with the flakes of the puff, you know."
Chris colored, and jumped up. "Undo it, Debby dear, and
let me out of it."  She had forgotten all about her finery, and
she feared her friends might think her careless and under-valu--
ing their trouble and kindness. "Come !now, I am in my
gray frock, and I only took a little bite, and you shall tell me
the omen. I love your signs and wonders. How you used to
make my flesh creep when I was a child, with those Norse tales
you told in the gloaming ! "
" Well, darlin', I've heard say that if a girl eats in a new
dress she will wear to a bridal, she'll have to see the begin-
ning or the ending of a death before she takes it off and the
wedding guests have gone home."
" Oh, Deborah ! what a ghastly old saw that is ! Lucky you
did not swallow the whole of your tartlet,- Chris; though, of
course, there's nothing in it," remarked Sabrina.
"Tell us about the picture," said Zoe, quickly; "Deb makes
me nervous."
" I didn't go to, Miss Zoe; but my young lady, she bade me
speak it, and I had to. I'm sorry. 'Tis only an old woman's
sign, after all, you know."
Chris had some trouble to comfort her old friend'; and :the
quicker to accomplish it, she bade her listen to the tale of the
picture.
"What a plotting Jesuit that girl is !"- remarked Sabrina,
thoughtfully.
"Why didn't you. let us send her to Coventry ?". said
Zoe. "I wonder you can endure her near you."
" I do not love her, certainly ; but I profited by her lesson,
did I notw? That was a true picture of Christabel Goldsmith,
as those who love her best knowr full well. Is it true nowv?"
35*


414 MR. 0T0 GROENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME.
Chris glance into her mirror; and Zoe flew at her and
devoured her with kisses. Deb quietly made up her mind to a
move on the board in which that picture should serve he
the very first minute she could make it successful.
Chris put on her hat as she was desired, and the trio went
down to the library, to wait while Tommy was bringing round,
the ponies.
" Heigh hot!" said Zoe, flitting restlessly about, "I wonder
who will be married next? We know that poor Peebles went
mourning home, even as Rachel mourned for her children, refus,
ing to be comforted. Chris, somehow I can see but one des.
tiny before you, and that is the one you found among the
daisies. I hope you may be endowed with strength to rise
equal to it ; and do try to get your own way sometimes, when
the .terrible time does come. As for me, my motto is 'Down
with tyrants.' I shall train Peter to implicit obedience. I
am started correctly, and I intend always to do precisely as
I please."
Sabrina laughed, remembering the snubbing her rosy-cheeked
brother, had gotten, Christmas evening, at the hands of his be.
trothed, and she could not refrain from a malicious remark.
"Now, really, Zoe, would you go back to school if you were
me, or not. I wish you would talk with Peter about it."
Zoe.colored, pouted, and then laughed.
"We must get a husband that will keep you in order, my
topping friend. There's Hauxhurst, or Chandy, or Sam. He
used to rave over your auburn tresses. By the way, dear, it is
always a mystery how.you became possessed of your amber
locks; your mother has hair like finest flax, and your father
wears a shock as black as a Tonawanda's." .
"I don't know, I'm sure. . Oh yes, I do, though. .It is  i
our family. I had an aunt who married a red head."

MR. O0THO GROENTELDT BIDES HIS TIME. 415
Chris had gone off suddenly into one of her reveries, with
eyes dreamily fastened upon her friend, so that she did not
hear the solution of the mystery, nor Zoe's laugh. Pretty soon
she said, fingering the red braids,-
"'Tis -like Jane Shores, Zoe.  We are told that the -Coun-
tess of Cardigan had a lock cut from the head of that unfortu-
nate_; marvellously beautiful, seeming to be powdered with
gold-dust, without prejudice to its silken delicacy.
"Very good, Chris; and true, too.. I do enjoy your fashion
of bringing out things.  It is ever so nice.  But I want to talk
about getting married now.   When 'shall we put -roses and
buds into our hair for your adding, Sabrina?"
"When the Bobolink courts the owl
And the mouse the porcupine,
When apple-trees grow in a bowl
And topers get merry on brine,
When the thistle-down swims on the sea
And the nautilus flies in the air,
When the king comes a-courting to me
And praises my raven hair,
in short, when every thing is upside down and inside out,
then, perhaps, I may fall into love, and bend my will to a
master."
The door was open into the octagon room beyond the
library, where the Mexican and Brazilian treasures were kept,
and the gilded idols stood in silent rows in front of the rain-
bow-tinted shells; and Mr. Otho Groenveldt, carrying a bottle
of glue in his hand, having his coat sleeves turned back,
begirded with a vast canvas apron, came through it, and
bowed to the amazed trio.
"May I ask whither you are bounds young ladies ?"
Instantly each turned her thoughts around what she had
been saying since she entered the library ; and Zee made a


416  MR. OTiO GROENVELDTr BIDES ,HIS TIME.
side grimace, as she remembered the opinions she had aired of
the grave young doctor, who was standing before her with a
composed mien. If he had heard their talk, there was no evi.
dence of it about him, he being as close-faced and polite as
usual.
" Oh, yes, sir, there are some mortals who seem to have a
vocation for asking questions, and we will take it for granted
that you are one of them. We are about to carry off our
Chris, an unresisting captive."
"I am of opinion that you have made an unauthorized
statement, Miss Zoe, which events will'fail to corroborate. I
have need for Miss Goldsmith to-day among these Brazilian".,
butterflies, and I shall be forced to detain her. I'll lend you
Bertha, if you like, guid pro guo, who is as good as the best."
"Why not keep Bertha for yourself, sir," asked Chris, chafing
under his masterful mien and quiet appropriation of her, with-
out even the ceremony of asking her consent; but still curi-
ously humble in her tone and attitude.
"Simply because Bertha would be of no use to me, and you
fulfil all the conditions, -memory, accuracy, readiness, atten-
tion, and'good Portuguese."
Sabrina and Zoe listened, and looked at the' two in surprise,
and with a feeling of impatience.
"What.if we decline to leave our Chris?  There is a class
of whoyi we are told that even their tender mercies are cruel-
ties," said Sabrina, a little poutedly ; "and what if she refuses
to stay, and being 'a girl of some spirit, I think she will
refuse."
Permit me to say very politely, Miss Bradshaw, that I
shall recognize but one party in our operations, which is Wss
Chris herself; and she W-ill choose to stay.; first, because I
desire it ; secondly, because she likes the sort of work. I offer

MR. O THO GROENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME. 417

M"
t

0

s
t
f

her. She possesses (we all know quite well) many admirable
qualities; among them, self-denial, kindness, and amazing
helpfulness, and she is about to put in use her virtues. You
will find Bertha in the drawing-room writing letters; and I feel
sure she will pleasantly ride bodkin in, your phaeton, eat salt
at your hospitable table, and lend herself readily to any little
mysteries you have in hand."
The two girls were positive and self-willed enough ; but
somehow Mr. Otho's peculiar manner, half-jesting, half-grave,
and his politely cool dismissal of them, hindered any show of
resentment. Zoe did try one word, though.
"'Tis for you to say, Chris, I think ; will you not abide by
your resolution and come along with us ?"
",No, Zoe, thank you," answered Chris, faintly. "I think
perhaps I ought to stay if I.can be of use. I'll come down
after dinner ; I'll ride Zephyr."
"I told you so, Miss Walsingham! When Sapho turns up
her curls in that fashion it means business. In Lesbos it meant
sonnets; to-day a paste brush will take the place of a pen in
her poetic fingers, and a pot of glue will do for ink. The
poetry is ready to her hand ; she is about to- arrange and clas-
sify it. Au revoir, young ladies ; I'll keep my captive safe ;
and I will promise by my faith to give you a sight of her face
before the moon sets."
Chris felt shy and awkward when Otho led the way into the
cabinet, and she hesitated; and lingered, uncertain of herself,
and dreading him; he set her the work he needed, and brought
out an apron and bib, which he fastened around her neck, and
her slender waist, and in half an hour she was smiling, bright
and busy. The cloud'had lifted from her eyes, the droop left
her lips, and her interest. and attention were concentrated upon.
her occupation and her co-worker. Mr. Otho was- serene and

f      f ,
=        z
Y  1       "
Y  '      t t
F   Y
i [t Fr,
}           F
1      V
'e
r
1     1 [.
s   =  ' d
f       V   k
f'  t   r
t
ff     y

w
I' ,
1I  1

i
;{
IY


418 MR. OTIZO GROENVELDT BIDES IRlS TIME.
joyous. He had carried his point with a high hand, and had
gotten Chris all to himself for a whole morning, and he
plunged heartily into the enjoyment he meant to have, both
for her and himself. His deep-toned voice was musical, and
he knew from the face he loved' to study that Chris was
pleased with his gathering of many themes, bringing odd con-
ceits and quaint quotations to bear upon their occupation, and
he was as fond as De Quincy himself of hunting his topics to
earth. He always set Chris's brain working, and afforded her
double pleasure, because her absolutely perfect memory ena-
bled her to reproduce any conversation in completeness; and
she took up her studies with vital energy after one of their
communings, quickened and revivified by agreeable converse
with his intellect; she knew the color of the familiar delight;
she had pined for it in secret, mourned over it as lost ; and now
this morning, among the-shining beetles and bugs, and the gay-
colored moths, she appetized it with the same keen relish as
if the old Christmas had never been. As in water face answer-
eth to face, so her soul responded to his. - Even in his love-
making there 'had been no small nonsense, few caresses, less
of sense and matter than of mind and soul; and, sitting op-
posite the only woman he had ever desired to have for his'wife,
he was an interesting companion, listening as well as talking,
bringing out her best points by his natural comprehension and
appreciation of them.
"Lift that wing a trifle, Sapho ! 'tis a noble creature, is it
not?  Did-you ever hear of the Aurelian,-who fell in love with
this Camilla's graceful elegance ; and long after he was too in-
firm to follow her airy flights, he used to haunt the woods and
sit and watch, and feast his eyes upon her inimitable evolu-
tions."
"It seems a pity that these gorgeous beauties have no voice;

MR. OTHO GROENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME. 419-
the sweet dew of the honey-suckles they sip should make them
sing."
"It may be that the lack is not in the Papilio, but for want
of Fine ears' power to hear ;' the fairies go often to butterfly
concerts, where the cicada beats the drum, the bumble bee
takes the horn, and the firefly furnishes the illumination. Ah!
Sapho, I dare say you would like 'the trees to grow by music
and the brooks to murmur articulate.' There is water runneth
by the mill that the miller wots'not of. You must also feed on.
honey-dew before you get Fine ears' gift. Tlhat is a marvel-
lously pretty tale of the 'singing flower,' a Christian knight
tells us, and approves the truth, of what he says by his sacred
word, and that he himself heard the song 'in calm summer
evenings and the stillness of nature.' A pure melodious voice,
whose notes went up toward heaven, would suddenly vibrate
on the ear. It was the mandragora which thus chanted its
nocturnal strains ; those who heard it felt emotions they could
not express. Their hearts beat with pleasing violence, and
tears of tenderness suffused their eyes. Sometimes the night-
ingale endeavored to vie with the mandragora. But soon
the charm would act upon herself; her trills would gradually
become tamer, her voice would grow weak ; till. at length she
would cease, and only listen to her triumphant rival.".
The voice of the mandragora brought good fortune to those
whose ears it had once entered; ever after they heard it resound-
ing from the depths .of their souls. It was poetry that had
spoken to -them. " Now I think. I'll have .Belisama next this
Marsyas, though they've no business to be nearer neighbors
than Brazil and Java. Yet the gorgeous scarlet, perfect cerise
color (who was it called a cherry "fragrance and flavor done
up in a red' wrapper"), looks vell beside the- ciel azure; 'tis as
deep and intense as Sonsie's eyes, is it not ? Did youi know

;L          1 f
t  t
1    ,
j
t
n
f   f
4
1   k
f   i
44 !
t   t   t
Y((
}   a    f
d   .
BEd
L   i
'  r   ttt
}   i   5
1
1
t   C
9   jl p
A
i       !      Sk
S
i
H
k ff                .
I'          3
4


420 MR. OTHO GROEN VELDT YZIDES HIS .TIME.
the curious fact that most of the mountain peoples of the world
are blue-eyed?"
After a little silence, Chris uttered a thought she had been
turning over.- "Is it not passing strange-that the great natural-
ists and the . lords of science are so. many of them infidels.
Nature- shows them her choicest mysteries, and yet they live
and die with no divine Creator in their creed, but refer all'
things to second causes. One would think a study of this yellow
moth, for instance,. its pretty phimes, nicely balanced wings, and
delicate coloring, would force them to own it must have a Crea-
tor.. I had a Luna come out last week, and I lay awake all
night to see it grow. At first the wings were mere specks, and
interfolded, and the body was immense,; and I watched it inject
the juices through their clear cells till they spread and spread,
and grew green and lengthened, and the body shrank and les-
sened; and at two o'clock I had a marvellous specimen, a great
beautiful gossamer Luna, , flapping. its wings against its old
prisonrhouse. Only a Deitycould produce a butterfly, and yet
these great men, who know all about it, are content with second
causes. ' Prepare to meet thy God ' has no significance to
them."
"Ah, Sapho.! God is love."
Chris liked up. Though the speaker's face was pleasantly
grave, his voice had a ring in it, and his eyes smiled into hers
with their old kinlding sweetness. " The world has many fear-i
less thinkers, and of course some of them get dreadfully mud-
4e4 - our theology is not standing still. There is.no harm in
stirring it up and sifting it ; and though there are some points
beyond our reasoning, we have a right to study, to search.
I don't know how a thinking soul can fail to find its God, and
I cannot understandl how a loving one can bear to live without
its Christ, and everybody as hoping for a heaven. What that

MR. OTHO GROEkVELDT BIDES HIS TIME. 421
shall be we know not yet. 'Gates Ajar' is a bold book ; but
Coleridge out-said it years ago, when he told Charley Lamb
that there be persons who place the whole angelical beatitude
in the possession of a pair of -wings, to flap about with, like a
sort of celestial poultry. Apropos to angels,Sapho, do you know
what designs Zoe has upon us two? She wishes to drag us in
triumph at her chariot-wheels. She will have us for bridesmaid
and man."
Chris started and blushed. Like the ancient mariner, he
had a spell in his full, flowing voice, which would hold her fast.
It was glorious music, the echoes of its olden tones were still
sounding in the chambers of her soul. She looked at him and
wondered what it was about this grave, imperious, proud man-
hood, which so charmed and delighted and satisfied her ; but as
he was waiting a reply, she stammered,
"Yes sir ! Zoe asked me to be one of her train of maidens,
but she did not name my companion."
" Of course you understood that I must be the man."',
Here it came again! The feeling of irritation at his masterful
appropriation of her, to mar her pleasure in him; and she replied,
quietly, -
" I did not indeed ! nor do I even now see the sequence ;
in truth,'when she pressed me to come she did not know what
spot on the footstool you were pleased to glorify with your
sublime presence."
"Indeed !" (provokingly). " There's a destiny which shapes
our ends, rough-hew them as we may. Bill Shakes, the inspired
friend of your handsome brother, never spoke truer words than
those ! You see the mine could not'swallow me up, nor the
lovely land retain me when I was needed-here, and I am the
man. I do not love weddings. I can never laugh nor jest,
when I see two young people join hands and take a leap in the
~36

I
t
r
Y        {
r
C   t    r
i
5
i   {    Y
'r       q   t
Z   f
{       t   ;
4   }
L   L.
y   7
t,       t   6   Q
f       ,k
'f           {
i
r
H
f   !L
1
Ii
t


422   MR. OTHO GROENVELDT BZDES IZS -TIME.
dark, not knowing whether they shall alight amid flowery
meads, or make dismal wreck among bristling rocks. But since
Sapho approves, I shall don bridal favors, and walk proudly with
her on my right arm, clothed in white, the cynosure of all eyes,
the observed of all observers."
Christabel did not know how to answer when Mr. Groen
veldt chose to talk in such bantering strain, and she went on
dipping her brush, and fastening beetle's wings in rosy silence.
" Do you find my friend Max a sprightly correspondent,
Sapho?" asked he, quietly, dusting a fresh case.
"No, sir," she replied, looking quickly up, and unconsciously
fingering the sapphires which spanned her wrist.-
"A most naive confession, and not flattering to the yellow.
haired count. And, by the way, is that a talisman, that your
fingers fly to it so often ?"
He waited for an answer, but nothing except panting breath
came through her partedlips.
" Thus 'I commence my new labor, I pray you commend
my skill; the soft leafy-green dodo for my centre ; that is
comely. It may be that your bracelet is fellow to the wondrous
jewel the Koran tells us Abraham wore around his neck, the
light of which raised up the bowed down and healed the sick,
and after his death was placed among the stars. Yon royal
yellow fellow next, yellow in color, is bitter in taste; so
botanists tell us, but it sets off the violet of our purple Midam-
iras, as the two contrast in the petals of your favorite flower.
Do you remember the odd brooch we saw at Ball &amp; Black's,'
Sapho?"
" Yes, sir," replied Chris, absently, "I think I do." She had
laid down her brush, and was dreaming, with her fingers on the
table, and studying carefully their evolutions.  "Yes, indeed,
that is it, key of F. I will call it the butterfly chase, part

MR. OTIO GRQENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME. 423
first ; the children, say Gracie and Dick, start out to hunt their
prey, a magnificent Papilio Asteria , who flies just before theinm;
they rush on, artd he settles on a low bush, and Dick seizes
him and tears his plumy wings, and Gracie is sorely grieved,
and weeps-- I'll write it out this evening, and I'll have for my
motto 'Wordsworth's sonnet to his sister.' My sister Emme-
line and I," etc.                            -
" What are you planning, most versatile Sapho ?- do you ned-
itate a sonata to add to your Lesbian productions?",
He stopped his work to watch her, and through the half-
teazing, half-inquiring tone of his question there ran a 'sub-cur-
rent of eager pleasure, which seemed like pride in the young
creature he was studying so closely.
"No, sir," she replied, quietly, resuming her work, "only a
fantasia. You managed somehow to bring to my mind that but-
terfly chase of Wordsworth, and I intend to try to write a
piece of music to it. I believe I can do it."
"I have not a doubt of it, Sapho, and when you have it com-
plete, I'll take it to Huntington, and have it gotten out in good
shape, and we will play it together."
"Thank you, sir," Chris answered; but all the while she felt
the same unrestful trouble to mar her enjoyment.
"Revenons a moutons, Miss Chris. I spoke of a certain
pansy brooch, which Miss Brandon desired Uncle Alec to pur-
chase for you; very thoughtful, was she not, and exceeding
kind?"
"Thoughtful! the fewer thoughts she bestows upon me the
better I shall - be suited, and as, for her desires! they are of
less account to me than the spider's most attenuated web," re-
plied Chris, with curling lip.
"You do not love the blonde beauty, Sapho; though you
must admi~t that she is strikingly handsome."

it   Q
74
j
"t
Vtr


424 MR. OTHO GROENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME.
"I am told that men believe all women are spiteful toward
each other, and I dare say it will sound like it when I tell you
that Belle Brandon is not pretty to me, because I cannot look
in her face without being unpleasantly reminded of dangerous,
or creeping things, and her floating, gliding motions are a pres-
ence wonderfully graceful, but somehow they always suggest
Geraldine, and Lamia. I am   afraid I must confess to a
thorough dislike to her, a dislike grounded upon excellent
reasons."
"That is no news to me, you transparent pensee. I must
read you a lecture upon the charity that believeth all things,
suffereth long and is kind, doth not behave itself unseemly.
What chance, think you, a young or an old fellow would have
of domestic bliss, or of ruling himself, mated with her. The
gray-mare the better horse, hey, Sapho !"
Chris looked at him, and at the golden lizard he was holding
up in its tiny phial, between his eyes and the sunshine, and she
felt sure his thoughts pointed in the same direction with those
of faithful Deborah ; and now came out one of the oddities in
her which Otho especially liked : she left the subject for a side
issue, and avoided giving an opinion.
"That current saying, sir, refers. to the fact that in old times
the gray mares of Flanders were preferred to the finest coach-
horses of England, even as those of the Kocklamii are reckoned
priceless.by their Arab masters, after a successful endurance of
their one terrible trial, - a race of forty or sixty miles, without
respite, and a deep-water swim afterwards; then, if the 'animal
comes Qut strong, and takes her food with healthy appetite,
she is counted worthy of all tenderness, and absolute worship."
Otho smiled while she proceeded to relate the horse-anec-
dotes she had picked up, no one knew where, -the docility,
sagacity, faithfulness of the race, and the wonderful feats of

MR. OTIZO GROENVELD      BIDES HIS TIME.     425
remarkable steeds, and he thought how, sometimes, one terrible
ordeal in a human life proves the value of it, and develops hid-
den powers in the soul, and rounds and establishes the charac-
ter. And who can tell whether the proud man felt any sorrow
for the bitter suffering his love had endured, when he found
her so pgarly perfect in all she aforetime lacked. One thing
certain, he counted her worthy of all tenderness,.if not absolute
worship.
"Thanks, Sapho! Learned also in horse-flesh, as-well as
poetry. But now, if you have sufficiently exhausted your sub-
ject, you shall tell me why                 iend Max's
letters."
Chris flamed up under his provoking side-ht, and wished
shy had held her tongue, and she replied, quietly,-- -
" I can form no opinion whatever of his -epistolary powers,
because I have never read any letters of his."
"Nor written any either for his perusal ?" asked Otho,
looking in her face.
"No, sir; though I can imagine no.reason for your inquiry,
and do not recognize your right to make it, still I don't mind
telling you Dr. Max is no. correspondent of mine, nor ever
was."
"That is strange, now; because I saw an epistle in Miss
Brandon's hand this morning; which I could have sworn was of
your graphy, and it was directed to Count Max. She stood by
the hall table, turning over the letters, and she picked it up,
and remarked upon the beauty of 'our Chris's penmanship.'
There, my good helper! many thanks; the last of Lepidoptera
is placed, and our task is finished."
Chris felt a sense of danger, as if there shad been a deadly
reptile -in her neighborhood, and she thought, "What can
the plot bet? What does she know of Max or his bracelet,

f      '7      y 7 "   
+
r     f    6   L;.
(( Y
t ^
tl   r     ;   t'
t S
[          4
k    s          :
3              Lr
y    S
S
i
e
y         6
Y
{+             '    t(Rt
1     ,   3    1    4   r
i
F
h
'              j
t       ,#k     i
I          t   ii        +
i
f               f
F I, .


426   MR. 1OTO GROENVELDT BIDES IlS TIME.
seeing that I never mentioned him to her, or indeed to
anybody."
Otho went on,
"Max is a noble fellow. I am told that you sent him home
happy, and that you await his return; that you prepare your.
self in dainty needle-work, music, study, household Igge, to be
a countess."  He smiled. "I know you are often with Debo.
rah, and that your pretty fingers are never idle, and I learn
that you are promised to my best friend. Is it true?"
He was standing before her now, his hands free and quiet,
his whole . trude superbly proud and confident.
Chris      d. She saw that he was playing with her emo-
tions, studying her, and enjoying the amusement and, though
she resented the position, she could not help the conscious
blood that surged through her cheeks, nor the "no" in her
eyes. One swift glance conveyed it to him, and with a smile
he captured it.
"Ah ! that bracelet again, Sapho. You have worn it long
enough,. in my judgment. You do not care for gauds; you
told me so on the wall, and again in yonder little summer.
house, St. Christabel's arbor. You shall come up thither with
me this evening, after Zoe's frolic. Your eyes sought the lily-
pads that day. I saw your- eyelids flicker as they do now.
Come, change with me! Here are brooch and ear-rings of the
same pattern. They were sent from beyond the sea, by a dear
motherly friend, who used to call me her 'boy,'--sent for my
wife. I have-sworn no other woman shall wear them. / I will
not break my oath; but I will sell them to 'you for that spark-
ling. circlet you are so fond of caressing with your pretty fingers.
I know where you got the bauble, and why. I pity good,
nobleMax. He did not understand your soul's history, or he
would never have dreamed that you could transfer the love you

MR. OTHO GROENVELDT BIDES HIS TIME.         427
gave me to him. Such as you, recognize but one master. I
had all your heart ; I have got it all now-! I'll be generous;
keep your bracelet, and take also. my gems; his for friendship,
mine for my wife."
In spite" of his autocratical-bearing, his towering pride, his
self-assumption, Christabel loved him. He spoke wisely.. Such
as she love but once, and she owned it to herself while he
talked. It grated upon her to have to own it, and it irritated
her to feel how quietly he ignored all she had said to him; how
he trampled over' her coldness: and reserve, and took her love
fpr granted, and coolly appropriated her, as a master com-
mands a slave. She rose in. anger, and pushed away t* gems
he proffered, with such a provokingly serene air.
"If I had forgotten -how you made me suffer, how. you
looked at me, how you let others torture me, I might perhaps
be foolish enough to listen to the promptings of the love you
count on to subdue me to your yoke. I did love you. I do
love you still; but I will not help myself to a tyrant, nor-you
to the unquestioning machine you expect. The dogmatic dic-
tum of the Church of Rome is not more cruel to her poor
votaries than the speechless obedience you demand. I have
too much common sense to be a good Catholic, and too much
will, too much memory, to be Otho Groenveldt's wife.. No,
sir ! every moment of that hateful time is ever present with me.
You were hard and cruel then ; you re hard and cruel now."
Bitter resentment clouded the tremulous light in her sweet
eyes, and she hasted from his presence, uncertain of herself,
and shut the door of her tower, and tried to ~collect her
thoughts, and to comprehend the tumult of her soul.
After the last fold-of her rosy-gray robe had trailed out of
his sight, and her lst foot-fall had dropped into silence, Doctor
Groenveldt restored the gems to his pocket. His face was

I,

s ,,;
(       i,
' Y f '
;   ,
,
3 ;a
F  ;
f
i
i        t  f
T
1   M    F
t           !'
t   j   }
f        r  F
t   t    F
{        i
r           1
r           c
r
r
c   s   4
j        i
t        ;
7'       t  1
s'
4
f
!
'
.F.
:,
-   E
,_  _
b   !
L   F      -j
f  .!
L   N
;  '
,,
f       t
.       1
1       3
z
.          .
.   '
F
;
,  '      ,      ,
,
.
'. E
'
.
(
'     i   (
,.-1 -
,     '    f
1
,  f
,      i
f
4
t
. ' ,   i
e',     i
{ R
i',        C
f;
,,
r  ,j
i f j,
,  ' ,  -
'
as!
t'
I  i  _'
i " '
,, ,  ,

'.    k
i       ,


BELLE STUDIES FLOWERS,

BELLE STUDIES FLOWERS.

clear, his manner absolute ; and he marched up and down,
in his usual quiet, sedate fashion; and, though he did not put
it into words, his thought, as he lighted his cigar, took the form
of the ancient motto on the Boar's crest: "I bide my time."
CHAPTER XXXIX.
BELLE STUDIES THE LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS.
HE four dined together. Otho sat opposite Chris,
and addressed much of his conversation to her, trying
to engage her in a discussion of some Barcarollos he
proposed to sing with her; but though she replied, and even
smiled, sometimes, her eyes looked pitiful, her lips drooped,
and weary manner denoted suffering.
Belle. Brandon was as soft and sweet as cream, coming
home from her chateau en Esagne. She spoke little to her
host, but she sat at the head of his table, and looked ra-
diant. He often fixed his gaze upon her, and lost himself in
thou}ht "  nd  t-  .           ....
thought; and Belle ate as delicately as Aminie picked up her
grains of rice at her husband's table, - the beautiful Aminie,
vho was accustomed to go out at midnight to feast among her
friends the ghouls, beside the opened grave.
While the dessert was coming on, Chris bent her head over
her lower-vase, inhaling its perfume, and she forgot to lift it
even after Thomas was gone, and the door was shut.
Belle watched her a moment.
" Her lare blue eyes 'gan glitter bright,
And the lady, whose voice was faint and sweet,"
reached out her. plump little hand, and laughed.

. "How oddly fate, or somebody, has dealt with us to-day'!
Look ! I've got our Chris's pansies, instead of my lilacs [a
lovely, shy glance at her host, which met its reward; for the
dear old-fellow had yet youth enough to remember the lan-
guage of the sweet, purple, old-fashioned blossom] ; and you,
Chris, have gotten cinque-foil and lindens. Mr. Groenveldt is
justly dealt with. See the narcissus, the white roses, sweet
william, and wood-sorrel, twined about with bindweed, which
salute him, and speak for him; and, oh, Mr.^Craigenfels, posi-
tively Thomas is inspired; he has given: you ash-leaves= and
oak, and fennel, to surround your one lily. Poetry, romance,
autobiography, every thing! What is that Latin saying, Chtis-?
Multa -multu, - come, be kind, and help me out."
"Multurn in parvo, I suppose you want," replied Chris,-with-
out looking at her.
"Yes, dear learned child, I am sorry, but those dead.tongues
never would slip readily off my lively one; and now, cherie,
you shall play Mr. Interpreter to us good Christians, and read
our posies for us.
She folded her hands in gushing expectancy, while Uncle
Alec complacently beamed from  one beautiful face to the
other.
"Yes, pet," said he; "Thomas has certainly, for 'some
unfathomable reason, crucified his affections to-day, in that he
has plucked the leaves from 'his most cherished delights, the
lindens and - oaks he is dwarfing; Japanese fashion, and the
longi forum he'has cut for me. Now you shall translate. them
to us."
Chris felt in no humor to comply, but as her kind old friend
looked so pleased and expectant, she commenced.
"You have oak-leaves, Uncle Alec; those mean hospitality;

x

III
i
I Y  i
4    r
t
e   G
i   '
'
.   r
r
i        7
i
i   3    ¢
rE
(   t    K
c
E
i
1
t
x
{{ ;
f   F
,I
t  3         r
rig ,

A28

429


BELLE STUDIES FLOWERS.

ash: those are greatness; fennel, strength; and lily, majesty-
of a truth, a most delicate compliment."
"And now for me," said - Otho, pushing his flower-vase
toward her.
"You are not flattered, sir. Narcissus, selfishness ; white
rose, silence; sweet williams, scorn ; wood-sorrel, joy."
Mr. Craigenfels and Belle clapped their hands and laughed.
" Thank you, Miss Brandon," said Otho, with a queer look
at-the blonde. " Did not the absent Chandy commend your in-
dustry at one time?  If he were here, he might repeat the
merited praise."
" Oh dear," exclaimed Belle, suddenly, pushing up her loose
sleeve, and pretending to search for a fly, or nothing at all,
but bringing her creamy arm before Uncle Alec's gaze, set
off by its simple band of black velvet, and she hoped he had
made no note of the half-sneer beneath Otho's speech.
" My simple posy needs no reader. We all know the lan-
guage of pansies, and Chris better than any; and as for my
fragrant hawthorn, I'll enjoy my hopes in secret, and mymusk-
pinks -well, I don't mind, being childish so. long as I get
loved-; but yours, -cherie; a curious mingling, truly ! First,~
you've got lindens, conjugal affection-a little premature,
perhaps, and to be taken in a i prospective sense -and
lilacs, earliest love, is it not? ?.-Nay, mignone, do not blush so
deep ; cinque-foil. Thomas has 'ranged the deep forest-dells,
and brought back a. treasure of buds and bells,' and that
means -you must help me, Flora, I'm all abroad."
"Beloved daughter!" said Chris, speaking in a vibrating
voice, and looking full in the blonde's face.
There was an instant's painful silence, one of those pauses
which startle like a sudden drum-beat, and then Otho took
from his pocket a letter, and handed it across the table,-.

« Is that yours, Miss Goldsmith?"
Belle playfully snatched at the missive, and her eyes looked
like Geraldine's, when she these words did, say,-
"Thou knowest to-night, and wilt know to-morrow,
This mark of my shame, this seal of my sorrow."
"Let discretion pronounce, before giving it into the hands
of innocence," said she.
"Thank you; 'tis a foolish sheep that makes the wolf its
confessor," answered Chris, quietly. She perceived at a glance
that it was her writing, and knew from Otho's significant man-
ner that this must be the letter he had spoken of in the cab-
inet, and she greatly wondered what it would contain.
"Me a naughty wolf! oh dear, Mr. Craigenfels ! Is- not
cherie cruel ?"
"If you intended this as a joke, Belle, I must request you to
desist from all such pleasantries in the future," said Chris, fold-
ing, and putting it into her pocket.. The blonde was a little
nervous. She had no idea Otho would think, of detaining a
letter from the post, and it looked dangerous. Still, he had no
evidence of any sort, and she turned her swimming eyes be-
seechinglyupon her host, who was quite troubled in his mind
by this unmerited persecution and most unfeeling conduct on
the part of his other guests,,to whom he resolved to speak pri-
vately ; and the four sipped their coffee in silence.
As soon as they rose from the table, Miss Brandon went up
and slid her arm within Uncle Alec's, and said to the others,--
"Come,-now, and I will give you some music."  She laid
her hand upon Chris's, who twitched brusquely away.
"I am going to the conservatory, thank you. I wish to
compliment Thomas upon his dinner-posies."
"I will accompany you, if I get permission," said Otho,

F
' k
E
f
i     3
"

C
!   I   4  ;
r
"              f  {
t
t
1
e       to
i   t
r s
i
33{
I  j     t   ,u
6   K
l      F     " f
t
i
13    i .,I .:
:     1.

480

431

BELLE STUDIES FLOWERS.


BELLE STUDIES FLOWERS.

walking off by her side. Belle heard and understood, but she
did not even wink. ,.She conducted Uncle Alec to his easy-
chair, brought his pipe of golden burnish, which it, had taken
years of assiduous puffing to culotter into those glorious brown
and yellow tints, which John Nicot did not live to see, that
pioneer in the use of Buglos and Nicotiana. She struck a
match, and stopped a moment, kneeling on the footstool at his
feet, while she inhaled the divine perfume, and then she tripped
merrily to the piano, and sang ; and what should. he do but
listen, and look at her, and appetite beforehand a life with
this wonderful creature, so richly gifted, so absolutely charm-
ing. She knew how to give variety to her entertainment, also,
for she .told him school-frolics, and how naughty Chandy
made a sketch of his sister one day, and left it on her pi-
ano, which, though kindly meant, of him, was almost cruel in
its faithfulness ; and she floated up the staircase, and pretty
soon. she floated down again, a little, out of breah, but very
rosy, bearing the bit of card-board in her fingers, apd so pleas-
antly did she tell the' tale, that Uncle Alec laughed a little
before: he shook his head and said, " How cruel it was, and
how wicked," adding that he could not have believed his hand-
some boy would have been guilty of such a .deed ; and she
was 'spitefully vexed that no undervaluing thought of "little-
pet " had. been insinuated into his loyal mind; still, she did
not despair.

A32

DEBORAHf '!AAES zIE R MOVE ANbFPAILS.      4
CHAPTER XL.
DEBORAH MAKES HER MOVE AND FAILS.
HOMAS'S face was a little sour, but he was glad to see
his favorites, and he invitedthen. to cut some blooms,
proffering his own, shears-; which was the most positWe
mark of confidence and liking he knew.
"What funny flowers you gave us, dear Thornas; to-day"
said Chris. -"What ever possessed you F'
" Possessed .me, Miss Chris I" V  the' gardener made a horrible
face -" that blueteyed girl possessed me; she tormented worsen
nor the legion of devils did them swine; she clipped all ny
best things, knocked over my new Adonis-leaved Seneclo, and
snapped up my fullest 'double Sedum with her long, tfrainiu'
gown; a meddlesome, troubling' imp of Satan, as ever  plagued
an old man. If she comes again, I'll hordes her -hout-quit
as a cat can lick her ear."
" So it was Miss Brandon who filled the vases, Thomas?"
"Yes, it were," replied Thomas, throwing away a handful of
cuttings, disgustedly, and spitting after them. ."I wouldn't a'
let 'em stay a',table, only I had all my fuschias to pot, and=that
nasty young nayger 'dd agot into thie place, and waited'oniny bee.
pie, ef I'd a' stopped; he done it once, and I'll never bear it fromf
him again. I'm sorry they want no prettier,dear Miss Chrissie.
I'11'look out herearter, and you and Mr. Otho shall have-what'll
please you."
This little episode somehow harmonized the odd relations
between the two young people, who -looked at each other and
smiled, and the doctor -said, as they left the conservator y
flower-laden,-.
37

E     3
r
i            j
j     A      .
t     {
t     R     j
f     ,
f     "      j
r
I     f     I
1      ,
1
t
,
{
E     1
l
i     d
ff    i
i
,          o     I
}
4
i
t 1
(1    }
r {
r {     !           I
{           t
+f
1
t
i t((
f
"jr E(
!     f
1     A
(     1     7
I
4}t, t


44    DZR   4H MAK S.hER MO'k      AND FAZLS.
"Now, at what hour shall we ride, Sapho ? Make it as early
as possible, because the day is charming -just perfection for
a horseback excursion - and it swill be.:a sweet preparation for
the gorgeous sights Miss Zoe promises you afterward."
Chris looked up in surprise. She had forgotten all about
the eveng..and her-engagement. and she dwelt  at instant:on
the:.ich friendliness af Otho'svoice aidananner, and the smie
she loyed to see playing over his dark face, and she knew well
that in such a mood he would give her an enjoyable treat ; yet
she, ed't tede
"Must I go ? " said sher half entreatingly.
thitik.soindeed"he; replied, smiling. "You promised,
you know,and Ifeel, like insisting; because I am certain you
are zboit to :be friendly and pleasant, and I cannot be de-
frauded of my pleasure. Sapho in good humor is Sapho de-
lightfut"
F o ?r Sapho readOtho/'said Chris, quickly. She knew,
wiblst topping to think al the: strangeness of her position
toward this domineering, self-confident man, and the inconsis-
tentcies of : ,erconduct; bat she'went, notwithstanding, drawn
by bi .pressed wishes, and herown secret desire.
Ik:watched thenmutide awayand after gaing at Zephyr till
hecund outs of sight under the rees she -eached out her
hand istlessly, and tookup  little cigarchoder-of Campeachy-
woodi!eaVdwithaDhole' head and read on its stem,'
"Yuar trulyGeorge    lair," in uprght characters, made. bril-
liantseth cariee. She daspeditightlin herfingers the'rich
blood suffused her creamy face, and her ripe lips closed upon
her sarp little teeth just:one- instant; then "she threw it from
her arith- a quick gestureand turnederwolutelys to the work
sh hbad.in hand ," nd she accomplished durdig the afternoon
all she hoped. She was to be mistress of Craigenfels!' Short

DEBORAH MAKES HER MOVE AND FAILS.

time, indeed, to. the first of April : but she would be firmly
fixed before that day, -if nobody meddled. She 'overruled all
Uncle Alec's suggestions :for a grand trousseau and splendid
wedding, such as. befitted 1hersuperb lo eliness. 'She was mod-
est, simple, childish, clinging to his strength. resting on his vast
experience-; of ,course -he: was pleased:to please her, and he
loved her better for her choice of quiet nuptials, and put away
every intrusive 'doubt, every fear, and: held her to his grand,.
expansive heart; and promised himself to make the darling's
life one 'long dream of delight.
It must- have made your 'heart ache, to. hear his. talk to her
- all the good, beautiful;sinple things he said; how humble he
was toward. her ; -how.heblamned himself for taking her pure
innocent youth to be his,:as if he were doing her a wrong. The
old  fellow's truth and honesty were so apparent in :every
word and-look, that'. miss Brandon, knew While she listened
'that lying and. trickery andAecelt would awaken his wrath,
and she fervently hoped:.that, every :body would mind their
own affairs, -keep theirown counsel, andi not go babbling
and prating every thing they unfortunately knew of, her-to hirm.
The pretty tears: andsniles which:trembled on her lips and
eyes; like sunbeamsono,)the water,'they would have madegyour
heart ache too, knowing her; and knowing him;but:it was. all
arranged now ; a de et engagement, imd a. private marriage.
Before Zoe shod.d become. Mrs.'Bradshaw - oh=yes, Mrs.
Craigenfels'_would wearher diamonds-to the April wedding..
She understo d perf ely all :the.difficulties anddangers whieh
encompassed her about withacMloud of. witnesses; she knew
the mines which might be sprung at any moment ; but she was
watchful and as ubiquitous as she was iniquitous, and she put
all her faculties into her, work. *
Mr. Craigerifels was 'still seated in the library ,where his af-

t            t r
t         i     t
5        1Fr
i
t
{
,1    f        4  "
z
III
{  'r
{ r
,a

t
e
9
n I
c

d36


486

DEBORAH MAKES HER MOVE AND FAILS.

fianced wife had left him. His cigar had gone out between
his fingers; he was gazing at the carpet; brooding would be
almost a proper word to describe his look and attitude, when
Deb came in, somewhat fearfully, but still with the determina.
tion of a strong purpose.
"4Mr. Craigenfels, will you permit me to -tell you a short
story?" said she.
"Certainly, my good Deborah," replied he, rather astonished
at the remarkable visit.  "Certainly. I am very glad, to see
you. I have to make the calls mostly ; pray sit down."'
She refused to sit in his honored presence, but she proceeded
to -tell thetale Chris had told, eating tartlets among her friends,
. ..
sitting on Deb's knee. He heard her to the end, and took a
long look at the sketch, which he had inspected once before
that afternoon.
"Deborah," said he, with dignity, "you are altogether mis-
taken. Miss Chris also is mistaken. I shall take an early op-e
portunity of speaking with her. on this subject. You are do-
ing rank injustice to an innocent, artless girl; who is all warm-
heartedness, and as transparent as crystal. I am astonished to
perceive how everybody desires to malign and illtreat her. I
am fully informed of the true history of this sketch. I know
its thoughtlestauthor."
"Who told you, sir, if it be not too bold ?"
"Vamiss Brandon herself," answered he, politely dismissing
hs old servant, who put up her apron to her eyes, as she
walked slowly back to her kitchen.  "Qr Lord 1" ejaculated
she, "there's no fool like an. old fool:'
'4t

BELLE BRANDON'S LAST CARD.

437

CHAPTER XLI.
BELLE BRANDON'S LAST CARD.
N unexpected visitor had arrived at Craigenfels, and
was in close conversation with its master in the li-
brary. Madame, having received a letter on the sub
ject of the approaching marriage, and an invitation to assist at
the celebration of the same, had hasted .to speak her mind,
and so preceded her invitation a couple of days.
Belle would gladly have prevented this bidding of an un-
welcome guest, and she wasted. many gushing looks and
flavored speeches to that end; but when she found it impossi-
ble, she begged permission to write the letter, thinking it might
get lost, perchance, in the trant, if carefully handled. This
went for nothing, because U'ncl Alec sat by her, and waited
till she had finished, and kissed he plump writer, and carried
the missive himself to the post- so there was no help for it.
Madame had got to come, and Belle must manage her. She
had done it before, often and often, and did not despair of do.
ing it this last time effectually. She had got a promise that no
other guests should be invited till Thursday morning; and
Thursday evening her position would be established, her wor-
nes over.
Uncle' Alec was horrified, as well he might be. -Incredulous
as he seemed determined to be, some of the most despicable
sins catalogue' upon the Saphire tablets ascribed to .-his be-
trothed, and he expected to believe, such vile accusations ! 'im-
possible ! Otho being desired by his mother to remain, stood
with his back to them, looking down between the elms. M a
dame' sent for Chris, who came full of, surprise,-and refused to
37*

s
1  I
!LI
- i r  t


BELLE i BR4 AND NS AT TARO.

speak or meddle in any wiser and Uncle Alec, knowing her
truth, looked eagerly in her face, hoping to read something
agreeable to his wishes. Then riadanie sent for Bertha, and
ordered her to tell what she knew. Very unwillingly she un-
ravelled the tissue of falsehoods the blonde had wound about
h er pr foil,'Mary.Ann and theiartle stricken   shad
been found guiltyof;' but she spoke under protest, S doily
when questioned.' mentioned th  ketch. Uncle Alectftised
to mear anything more, onthatt.opk.
I haivealready sifted at,' said he, " and aswthoroughly
satisfied as to the author."':  t,
Then. madains went over-:RutWs -story.=t "She 'confessed
that she'wrotet thecruel'letter,'saide she. = " You t#ust'believe
ButUcAleAlec Jwas posted'there also, and ;knew more than
,; eby all d ktel him-a good dealhmore in fact, it, had been
the lee of a loving. confidence betowed upot hirn by Belle,
the blonde.  .
"Have you any' proofs of this acctsatio ?" 'he asked.
Mada  -era  forced to own she had'. Kobe,'.arid the'story of
the pm :ined papdrs was so incredible; that she-hardly believed
3Yes,.poor cild!' ,I kno  huw you ightened her. 'She
"oitfessed an der; torture i-.tYouware  sternand she 'so soft
and yielding. You wickedly compelled' her, and she bitterly
repented afteradrds. hrerybody is'htshand'tkind to her."
;Madrerlooked tutterlyc astonishedythat her clear-sighted
-brother= cotd'be sO bind.  ut'thes fact wasfhe had 'before
im       g a vision of to iustro(us efesldking;lov' into his, two
eherry'ips''pressing his,  seet Voice .yilabli  his name.
He hahnatle    p:his rhtin&amp;toyhav'   &amp;   . his Wifea rd he.
} wished'to.kave-hers "He Manted hamtom. , t indtilge, to

caress; nay, he was ready to worshipithis:beatitifuhcreaA-etof
God's carnig handiwork,; and :they Were frying:to defraud
him of his happinessw.
" But she is engaged to Zambrano, you silly brother!, . She
only throws him over for yor rhoey
-" Be. careful how you -make such. assertions. You cannot
know that !"
" Anybody but a fool, rho wishes to be duped, would know
that Belle Brandon-could not ma'ry a man old enough 4&amp;be
her, father, except for money :-and"as to the engagement, Do-
lores corresponds constantly .with iHetty Peebles. Hand she
mentioned it:forta. fined fact thr ee months-¢ ago."
Uncle Alec wiped, hia&amp;forehead .' That is. false ; sh as-
sured mre this:very morning that she had-never been engaged
to any man ! nay more,'that she had .never loved. any d''n,'
he straightenedinelf defalnatly, "till Iwas so fortunate as to
meet her. I Lwill 'not believe such calumny. = cannot lYou
are all, leagued against the ' unfortnaats;child.' "-
Meantime; Belle was =fitiag on he, new dress, ofecostly sati,
orderedEbytelegraph for: .Zoe's wedding.-But she meano 'be
a bride herself first, before she displayed it;tothengall,-rdber
handsome person --Belle 'Brandon no more, but Mr.- Cren-
fels' wife- . independent, rich secure.
By some ,versight the .body. anid sleeves were left=-tmi t4
med, andshe was rather cross about the Omission;h a close
inspection :of:the .phintflounce consoled-her,'-andhtl tiely
reflection, that she could order a beithaat her 4eisur eo she
bethought herof. some rare olds lace she hladsafe in&amp;cinna-
mon-wood box, and-she br nght:it, ye owwith ger-fineasgos=
samer, and such a patternI and she complimented ,=
uponathe excelent  re asi adtaken.fit, idlese*d it
in with heE ninibledinge  All idsedsho iweke4 b#id

e
f
1    M         ;
t    'a    1   F
F     1        E
R
t r
t   y
i    1         "
(    f     '   r
i
r      ,1   I i        I
{    C  I          j
R 1 "r;
{
E Y
- s
i    #    F    s
4    3
t
1    r
f  1 {    '
R ,r F
}
i    ttY
t   S
1 }
C I
1:
j            s

38


.L4E BRANDON'S LAST CAR.
AAAo  r then  stopped  nd  caressed  her  creamy  arms, :and  smiled
t urphantly. ,Sh had a brooch in the secret drawer of her
writing-desk, and some whim impelled her to bring it out and
try it one
"Yes," said she, "with ferns in myhair," She heard footsteps
in. dhe passage, and though her - door was bolted, and no one
could enter without her leave, she hurriedly displaced it, and
thrust it into her,-pocket, with ,her point handkerchief, while
she listened intently. . Then she .settled a loose bud of her
delicate wreath more to her liking, tossed off her blonde hair,
and stepped out into tie hall. Deborah was passing, her arms
"-piled with Chris's washing. She observed the fluting and the
cleargtarching of the. pretty aprons and things. Deb wouldn't
iron  er clothes,-but left them to the laundress ; and Deb
scoledaon her, glidingalong.
"Where is your master?" said she, haughtily.
A darker frown and angry grunt were all she got for answer.
"Your time is short,, my .dear I" said. Belle, between her
teeth asshe followed the retreating form of the faithful old
serent, with her Geraldine eyes; "We'll soon make an end of
your a.''s and nonsense."
Shegave her dress a finishing pat, and adjusted her face to
dimpled joy, before she turned the knob of the library door,
andwith her handsome 'head daintily poised, and her glorious
chains displayed, she entered.. She was so wondrously, mag-
niicently beautiful, that all eyes rested on her, and all tongues
kept silence, as she floated gracefully on.
"I knew I should find you here,-sir;" she-said. "ve come
t. dhow you my wedding-dress. lhow do you like your little
bode^.l"..
$.,S 9ommenced her sentence before she saw the other oc-
cupyntg of the roorm, with their sober faces, and she finished it

DELLE RANDON'S LAST CARD.

4d'

with a determined shutting . of her plump hand, and quick
steps, which brought her between them and him, so that she
stood directly before him, and his eyes drank in her loveliness.
He rose, took -both her hands in his, and drew her to the win-
dow, she stepping proudly by his side.
"Mi a Tortolita treciosa," said he, in a- low voice, while he
questioned the eyes lifted trustingly to his, "they have been
speaking- evil words of you,' which' I do not wish 5t bdeE;
and now that I look at you, I feel more than 'ever certain that
they are wrong, and you shall tell them so."
"Oh, thank you, sir," she answered, clinging to him; "that
dread woman makes me tremble. I suffered so much'while I
was in her power ; but you are near me now. You love me.
You will not let her hurt me, or-be cross, will you?"
"Cross I oh no, mia' Bella:; butl hate to repeat what they
sa. Do you know they would fain persuade ne that you are
promised to. that young Spaniard. If it is true, 'it is not yet too
late. I'll release, and forgive you; and, darling, even if they
speak falsely,711 make you rich, and I will be your friend,
your papa."- He smiled,  he was so sure of her truth. How
could he doubt, with those creamy hands in his, those 'lovely
lips, and dimples, and 'curls, and those shoulders, beneath his
gaze ?
Belle for one instant thought, "Rich and free I but no; the
whole is better than 'a part. I'll have it all!'' and her' eyes
swam in tears; one great pearl 'dropped upon his hand.
"You torture me, sir ! you are cruel, even to speak of such
a thing. I have put to the blush my maiden modesty, 'to tell
you how entirely I ni yours; how- you captured my poor little
heart. A simple heart it is  no image in it but yours -h
room for any other'love." (Alittle 6ift- qtieeze of' the fingei s
4

I'

t     y
f' y3
a       h ,a
h    i
r 'I       a
II~y
r  h
+ f
F    {
f     Y


442

B14LU4 RANDON S LAST CA.

she clung-to) "'Zam.b rano'soh no, heis nothingto me. Thank
=Heaven, the never was or could be."
A dark-browed youth has just stepped from the platform of
the Millville station into a hack, and given the' order, "To
Craigenfels !"  He is eager and 'joyous, and ean hardly tolerate
the s e moving horsess. He longs -to hold 'his ftahre in his
arrms: Where is-Rella Brandon's guardian angelfthat she is so
fegrfully leftto 'her -own devices ? Meanwhile, the youth de.
votrw*her last letter, full of tenderness and devotion, and presses
it rapturously to his.lips.
Uncle Alec turned triumphantly. "You waste your breath,
my good sister," $aid he. "C6*e, be good-natured, :and con-
graturate your old brother upon: the prize' he has drawn, the
very precious jeweL"  .
Iejrought her graidly forward,' and his face looked so noble
and so good- that Chris felt ~ready to dry,°and{Belle looked
madame rnodestly but fully in the face. That determined lady
returned=her ci-devant; pupil's gaze. 
"Stop ,a little," said she.  Let 'me hear 'this ,young lady
speak for herself Sit dlown, Miss Brandon, and attend to my
questions. JfIf:In ary to have you' for a sister " (a little sneering
emphsinon the:word), "21,willat least take the right to be set
straight upon some rather important points."
"Thanks, madame, I'll stand. I'ean'tquite forget the old
culpritttitude I was-wont to-assume, while I listenedto those
interminable lectureswhich used to: cu dle my. very blood,
when Iwas your victimized, pupil. I know you always disliked
me, ad took plasure in punishingi me.Ihave; told Mr.'
Cr igenfes alittlabout ny trials in'your 4 e  thinkik old
ladiessarlyrdw4 gys dislike young girls,-bit dhey' ma'am.
t A. o&amp;wefeeldlike     aughty cl±el  at i tdi ig here?
You must make up your mind to be dreadfullytired before we

BELLE BRAND&amp;N'S :LAST CARD.            443
get off. . Madame is such a; long talker. Now, the;, we are
ready; please to begin.. Get your handkerchief out siryou
must help.me cry."
Madame commenced under; rather discouraging circumstan-
ces, and her important queries lost something of their dignified
effect, from the.fact that she was obliged to look the
smiling culprit, whoe was occupied in beaming h  eliest
upon the gentleman upon whom she leaned. With steadf4oice
and undisturbed mnien, she denied' the whole. " As: to the
sketch, you know, I have already given you its history, and
Christabel herself will say she needed and profited "by the sal.
utary lesson so-kindly givenher."
Uncle Alec believed every word she uttered, and seeing Deb
at the door with a couple of letters, he walked pleasantly to
meet her. He was habitually polite to old Deborah, as well as
all his servants, who aadored' him, and he felt especially 'benev-
olent just now.
"Two, Debby," said he, "and in an unknown hand. I did
not know I had a correspondent who dealt so largely in quirks
and flourishes.", While -he a spoke; and very leisurely sundered
the envelope, he watched the blonde, -oticed her little white
teeth, listened toher Voice, observed her pech-blotn, her
grace, her affluent loveliness, and so'deeply was he interested
in her, and so absently did his fingers mnoves that he 'did not see
the tiny '" For Miss Brandon," in theconer of the topmost one.
He ran his eyes down the page.' A little surprise'-then an' in-
tense look of deep trouble. :Hestopped' readuig, and ired
hastily the sheet to the-nameappended at theclose  -
riquez Zambaano " -matid hehanded it qttiedly to- 1elle.
- " I am afraid I have bethguilty of the itii etioi
ing your letter."
His yoic was 4eo ihangedy thst Delle kinewits wdteg~ even

s     E
J f
ill

;;°
if ! i
iE    ,I
+     !
,
, '1
+ !'i
{  '
.;k;;  .
'; ;
! C
,ili;
ilil .
1 :


BELLE BRANDON'S LAST CARD.
before, she convulsively grasped it, and. her cheek got a shade
paler, but she stood quite still, not turning aside ; she kept her
face in good order, till she had perused it to the end.
"Poor, silly fellow; he is quite beside- himself. I should
have been afraid once to get such a letter, but I know I have
ki         onc---
a kind protector :now even from lunatics like this boy. Do
not ledimscome, Mre Craigenfels, I beseech you. He is not
saf'e, poor fellow ."
She had quite overdone her last epistle, and her lover was
speed g on the wings of love: to clasp his impassioned mistress
i1 his arms. But a little time ! only a little more time! that
was what she needed now. 'Uncle Alec was perusing his con-
nication, and she waited till he should finish it, and look at
hertg.begin anew. She threw a sharp glance at the paper.
If she could but know the tenor of his letter, she would be able
to proceed more safely; but she must:trust to chance for find.
ing out.
As soon, ashe had read the last -word, he handed it to her.
" You had:better read this also, perhaps."  He heaved a deep
sigh, and the one reproachful ook he cast upon the- blonde
wa fil, of bitter sorrow.
Jtw wawilsl, wicked thought which flitted through Belle's
min4 ,she crush dthe sheet, in her plmp fingers. If a fatal
acgident could so grusli the youg fellow she had smiled upon,
and fliTitese bye, a huncdtimead dispose of him-for-
evgr.  ambrano.desired-permission to visit "my betrothed"
beggk ythhospitablerggof of her veryMKnd host, lauding her.
degte modestywhh    fse4 hinleve fearful of intruding
her affairggon.strper s,t et dso tre of a welcome was
h'I...s girg t9 vgntpeand woul4'be with them as
soon as he had fixed up some Cuban matters intrasted . t-hirn
"Surely, I a  io to 1m4 on~ ~r4  rgving folly of a szy

BELLE ,RANDON'S LAST CARD.

youngidiot. No ! nor for his perverse antics, either.. Let him
come, and he shall tell you that he has no right to assume
such a position toward me, and shall be scorned, as he deserves."
Simple truth ! bewitching -innocence l She, looked the im-
personation of modest virtue, and while Uncle Alec began too
clearly to see that he could not have her for his treasure, he
longed to take her in' his arms, and shield her fromthegaze of
those who were looking disgust, anger, horror, at her..
We are told that. the angels were hurled out of heaven.. They
had been well-beloved up to that time. Is not love eternal?
The library door opened wide, and Sonsie Eagan announced
visitors. "1Mr..Blair and his wife, Mr.Craigenfels," said she, all.
gladness.
"Yes, here we are, sir, duck and I," spoke up the giant, in
his rich, cherry voice. "We know who we are now. We know
all about every thing., She's sweeter than- ever, isn't she, my
dear, good Ruthie?"
Sonsie went up to Chris, her face glowing. "Is it not beau-
tiful to see the bonnie pair of them together once mmore ?"
Belle could not help dropping into a chair behind, the great
embroidered fire-screen, and a. pang shot through her heart
This was the only man who had ever had power to quicken her
pulses, or make her dream. She fully believed that he did love
her, and her Geraldine eyes deepened to, glitteringsteel while
she resolved to -sway him once more, at least, so ,mmh as to cut
Ruth to the heart before them all. u" She .shall see himchange
'color, and feelhim treble beneath the power of my presencea-
While they were:all gathered apouad the pairwith.words of
gladness, and Otho held George by therhandi-she darted Swift
look at the great mirror.qntiuingthe powerothenhbgaty,
and came eagerly on,both hands erewded,Ysure ofher su es ;
exulting o'rpit evea id all hererple cities, ande swift

U i

r
+       e     4
i
j
P      Sg
F
,'
1
c
F ,
f
i
l     1
i
oaf;
,,',f r 1
I! I l
1!14.31 i  i

4,5

r '
t + {
r  .
{
f
f
i     }   f;
t
,l '
,} t     ,
f     r
',


BELLE BRANDON'S LAST CARD.

.4417 H

BELLE BRANDON'S LAST CARD.

thought, she had time, in-three or four steps she ma4e, to think
how she ,could rejoice to belong to the handsome athlete, and
to feel bitter spite at the fate which had withheld from her
wealth, with such a demigod:
"Ah, 'dear Mr. Blair'! old friend! please keep one a little
sm ie  oie Jhand-shlake for me. is not this the crowning of
all pleasures, to meet you?? I assure you, Roaring River was
very insigificant-without your magnificent presence."
'eorgestepped back, and drew Ruth closer to him. "Do
not look at' her, Ruth; do' not 'touch her.! Mr. Craigenfels, you
have oft awalking falsehood here. - Be careful I entreat~you-
Come away, deatest; you shall not' breathe the same'air with
her ! no, not for one moment. I'l visit you afterwards sir!
When you've your house purfied and exorcised."
How 'do you suppose Ruth felt--her secret carefully guarded,
no seret at tall fto'her grand; 'noble husband, -who had refrained
from touching what he saw she wished to hide? -I'l .tell you
what shedid. 'She rade. a clean breast of the whole before
she entetedthe Horseshoe; and that was the end of Ruthie's
role of Jesuit,,and she wondered when George declared that he
dise6vered ii the very first time she uttered Belle Brandon's
namerdown on the 'shore; and that 'it comforted hinr a little to
finrduckahnost assillyas e was.
Bele'ad.been spurned td -despised-bythem all, but this
na shehadalmost loved.: ':She had allowed her thoughts to
dwell upon him insecret, to con over hisdlooks.and' gestures,
his dd qu e} of4houghto and'expressionpand apt application
of hipfla oo   a y presentatiosmto 'oinmon-place =things.
Belle likd tyantraits,4which specialties 'fthe humorous
but4 bith, betide  ndrairizigthe gogeousnesofobislsplendid
manh d;but itwaa likig areftllyhidde a stoiepleas~
ureenjgled in :seret   $heoonly .permitted "herse fpiwhen

everybody else cloyed and fatigued her. She glanced at the
door through which he had departed, and made a i'step as
though she would fly and hide -herself. The light around her
became throbbing darkness. She: threw up her beautiful arms,
and gasped, 'and fell. 'For the first time in her miserale life,
she lost control of her body in the presence-of others, 'andshe
lay prone upon the floor before them all. Her long lashes
dropped upon: her cheek, herblonde: curls swept back frorn her
fair face, and her lips parted so as to show her shdp little teeth.
Never had the absolute' perfection of her maidenhood :beensso
apparent, as when the lovely casket' lay forsaken by its schem.
ing soul. If she had planned it beforehand7 she could not 'have
chosen a more graceful pose. Like a tired child-one round
arm beneath her head -the other hand grasping the letter, and
the rich folds' of the 'costly' satin, whose sheen enveloped-her.
It was not till she opened her 'eyes that zyou saw the lurking
devil, shameless, determined=; and the sleeping angelfwastrans-
formed into a watchful demon.- So sudden was the change,
that those about her drew quick breaths, and started back; and
questioned each others faces.
Deb went up andleaned her hands upon.her krees and
peered into' the bhiodless=face' of her enemy as soon as' he
fell.           ':r: '
-  "Well, Otis true and .teaideed  Shes gone dead of  I
didn't believe it," said she.
Sonsie came running with camphor and salts. "ThereI
think that'll bring her to."  She "thrtstthe opefrbottlerder
her nose. .7"I  just dipther handkerchief tothe camphire;
it's sticking' out of her pocket." Ae d  it f h, aud enton
gledif iMtsAp ~e6 &amp;'brb&amp;c! which caused herto dropathe
bottle, handkerchief, and all?
" c'Me ren-glas brbast pin !'',dsaid'she.

f 55
d
1           i
i     3
'               ;;    S     e
t           F
c

f(         '

4d6


448        BELLE BRAADON'S LAST CARD.
Deb picked it up, holding it near and far, looking by turns,
at it and Sonsie.
"'Tis Gospel truth, Mr. Craigenfels! The thief of the world!
She'd got the girl's fairing in her pocket"
Whether Belle had borrowed the pin, intending to replace
it, or not, I cannot tell; but there it was, to witness against
her.
"And, goodness gracious, Miss Chris! come and look,
please. Either my old eyes deceive me, or here's Miss Alec's
lace that I gave to you when you goed to school. Oh, law !
what'll happen next ? Well, well!"t
Belle, coming to herself, fixed her eyes upon Uncle Alec,
who stood a little way off, gazing sorrowfully at her. After a
hasty survey of those around her, she rose a little dizzily, and
fought for possession of herself; shook her robes slightly into
place, and went straight up to him with beseeching gesture.
"Do not cast me off,sir. It was, at the most, but a flirta..
tion.  I've done flirting .now I  Your wife will, be always
discreet."
He looked sorrowfully at her, and covered his face with his
hand,. while a little shudder crept over him.-
Take-her- away," said he, very gently. "Poor child!
Such loveliness and such depravity ! Unfortunate girl !"
Belle saw.here hopes in that quarter dashed to the ground,
and she wheeled royally about, and' faced them' all, and
laughed.
"'Well; good tpeople,,though it is no particular business of
yours, I'l tell you:what I shall do. .I'll go marry my Cuban I
He adores iel   True,-he-has not;so much money as yon
dating vod grandpa,-but he has'youth and fire andpssion, and
he will make a dashing husband."
It appeared that Uncle 'Alec was holding a reception, for

BEZLE BRANDON'S LAST CARD,   449

other visitors were announced. Zambrano ! who entered joy.
ously, his dark face lighted and his eyes all ecstacy.
"Mia Bella1 in. gorgeous array ! And is it in my honor
that my queen attires herself like a bride ?"
"She put on that frock to see how she would look - as my
master's wife, - Mr. Craigenfels, who is sitting over there,"
said Deb, plainly.
Zambrano dropped the hand he had taken and his fiery eyes
kindled.
"Is this true ?" said he, in a fierce whisper; and the trou-
bled, anxious -eyes resting sorrowfully upon her answered, even
before Madame spoke -
"Yes, my poor Henriquez, it is shamefully true, and you
must rejoice that you did not sacrifice your brilliant life to that
wretched girl, who has been busily plotting to marry my brother
while she was betrothed to you ; and she had the-audacity to
say not five minutes ago that she would take you as-a last re-
sort, though you were not so rich as the man who has just cast
her off."
"What does this mean, sir?"
Zambrano spoke through his clinched teeth, madly wishing
to pick a quarrel with somebody upon whom. 'he could wreak
his anger. Poor boy!. It was a sad trial, and his hot temper
had not learned how to bear crosses in quiet.
Uncle Alec got up and went over and took the youth's hand
in his, and-shook it softly.
" It means, my dear fellow, that you and I have both been
fooled to the top of our bent by a heartless flirt, that's all !"
Zambrano couldt not bear the tone sof the speech,' half-ban-
tering, half  , and appealed to his treacherous adored.
"Speak; (lle l" exclaimed he, passionately. "Say they are
all liars!"
88*

s (
r
r      ,
p
;!!              '
t             t
!
r t
z           p
;.
S      j      .
i      ti.
r
i     e    '
f
i            {    '
i
i      t          '
t      }i          .
r1           6
I            4
'      "y     .
{}
f
1                 i
,                  i
s    .            {
k          1
i
{
f                 i
,,  ,                  ,
1 '
Y
f                 1
j     s
S      }
i      "          i
!      }          1
,       t
Y
?       ,.I
.  ,
,;
;        t
t
'  'k
'
'f
+   °,'.
;f'             s
°
.4
f
ij      ' (
,I    1 1
_   U          ,


TME. CHRISTENING O7 T 02 FT+ EV.

She. looked into his .eyes, which were full of tears, and softly
touched his hand*
"I'l explain hereafter; dearest," she whispered. "These
people are in league. against a poor girl.  Come ! take me
away from their persecutions."
"Henriquez 1" said Madame, who thought he was about to
yield to her glamour, "you shall not be fooled. I will not
suffer-you. to go without hearing: the truth. ,Belle Brandon had
made her plans to be married here to-morrow night. Ask
her ! -Force her to speak! ,She dare not deny it!
Belle saw that'she .had failed again, and she gathered up her
forces for a courageous retreat..
"The world is full of men," said she. "I'll have a rich
husband yet  Ce monde est fleia de focus , A  revoir, good
people. -, I'll leave you to, settle your affairs at your' leisure. It
gets something tedious, jpense.; permit me to withdraw, wish-
ingyou a very good evening."
She  rushedpast Zambrano, who stayed for no other words,
but jumped into the carriage and disappeared.
"I shall take you in charge, Miss, Brandon. This very
evening you will set out to.joinyour aunt, to whom I shall. fully
1expIan your conduct; and I hope she will feel. the necessity of
keepingayou.:under her own eye for the future."
"Ah, Tante Isadore . " . She laughed, merrily. "A most
safe and watchful;guardian for. giddy'childreh, truly I I have
not the least objection in life to being;taken care 'of;._and you
may pay. al my. expenses also. . Luggagechecks,,=tickets, and
such small. deer,' are always a nuisance Lam glad to be rid of."
* With.. sweeping; courtesy and a gay hand'kissshe,passed
out of sightb;ndher ..icereachedthemwhileg  expedited
her preparations, humming in musical snatches, t ist Ileave

thee, Paradise," though what her feelings were- no one could
guess.
Certainly, Craigenfels. was not the same place any more to
Uncle Alec after she was gone.
CHAPTER XLII.
THE CHRISTENING OF THE SEVEN.
HE new church was completed.     It eas ,beautiful
within and:without, and very ptoid wertthe coimit-
t-ee'of their iiislkd laboar.-TheyAidnot naker Up
their hnds till' some tiie=  fte  Ards that there was an echo
in the nceitre, whlh' madrad d souidirg-board necessary =but that
was a slight'flaw:: They sent 'for their;architect and hadvone
made, in fnrm like a sea-hell;and ratlher plumed themselves
than otherwise upoh the possession of the sculptured beauty.
Dedication day arrived, and Mr.Growing sat i :the pulpit,
with a very happy face, and listened tohe great DIr.:perfect's
delivery of his celebrated dedaetion -sermon. I twa&amp; a.mas-
terly effort, - speCulative, - iinagiative  ,,far-reaching into
the era when church architecture, nowbut in its infancy, should
be immeasufably sublime,and congregations; too-vast for com-
putation,"sh- ilworship togetherr ; when 'the great,:throbbing
Christian heart shouldlift' itself in simultaneotssorison"; when
continents, electricallyunited,'should chant the same psalms,
and millions of pealihg-organs ha rmoniously blend ,their triumns
phant chous. The text chosenby the learned divine was a
poem in itie.f "The wilder ess ad  phe solitary place shall
be glad for' them, and the desert shall rejoice andblossom as

b
t1
a     f ,-
1    '
f   f
I            tf
!         3
i
1     4   ei     
I II ,
+         6  i
:s
i
r
t      ;
i
1   . P
y' ,

4o

451

%
B-- BELLE : 4NDON'SLAST, 'RD.


THE CHRISTENING OF THE SE VEN.

THE CHRISTENING OF THE SE VE.

the rose.  And the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and
come up to Zion, with songs and everlasting joy upon their
heads. They shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and
sighing shall flee away."
Mr. Growing smiled to himself at his thoughts, as the Doctor
progressed, and was a little vexed too, he having to preach the
following Sunday, and, of course, intending to give a sermon
bearing on the new church, had inquired of the reverend gen-
tleman, -
" What text have you chosen for your dedication discourse,
sir !"
"You will-know when you hear it," was the concise reply.
Mr. Growing was very nearly as absent-minded as Ao to,
who, we are told, once walked in slippers all the way fron Ca.
pri to Ferrara because he happened to stroll out of doors in
that direction ; and, he perpetrated querities enough, while
thinking Up-his sermon, to keep his chubby sister, who was
called Kate in the family, laughing from morning till night ; and
her usual occupation of following after her brother, picking up
his belongings, freshening his toilet, and searching missing arti-
cles, which, as he said, "were forever falling down behind,"
was extremely engrossing. One ,.morning, having taken off his
beardie calmly dropped his best razor into the slop-jar, and
turned the contents of his shaving cup into the drawer, left
conveniently open, among his wife's best laces; ,and so, having
completed that occupation decently andin order, he took his
coalkhod-out to the pump in the yard, filled it laboriously with
cold water, intending to replenish his study-fire,,and would in-'
evitably have treated himself -to a small.flood, had not his
laughing sister, who was- tripping after-him, stayed his hand in
season.'hHe might have eaten paper and drank ink, for all the
sense he had of the food he swallowed. He rose in the small

hours, and in simple attire he paraded the floor, stopping occa-
sionally to jot down a striking thought, which he afterwards
dried carefully, squatting for the purpose beside a round object
he conceived to be a register, but which -he afterwards identi-
fied as an American article of plenishing called a spittoon.
And now, the sermon, which was being so magnificently elabo-
rated in his hearing, had the same text, and, of course, many
similar thoughts. He well knew that he had ill-natured critics
in his parish, who would gladly accuse him of plagiarism; but
it could not be helped, and he decided, while he sat with folded
arms and intent face, to preach his sermon precisely as he
wrote. it. - He had put much labor upon it, - considered it a
good discourse. He thought well of the child of his:brain, and
he delivered it verbatim.
Sabrina and Zoe worked faithfully.at the decorations, and their
green-houses gave generously of .their treasures. Their zeal,
was not without knowledge, for Zoe was to be married to red-
cheeked Peter, dedication evening. The pulpit bouquets- were
beautiful. The carved font Jan and young Bradshaw had in-'
tended to present to the-society, but Captain Slocum took it
out of their hands.
"No, no, boys," said he, "that fountain business has recently
come within my legitimate spear. I am going to bring forted
my seven golden candlesticks, seven rams, seven lambs=there
I go again ! I vum1I Inever open my clam-sheBl to say any
thing about them youngones, butI train off-into Scriptur. Well,
as I was sayin', Dulcet, she's going to have them seven-~rrit-
ters / christened afore any'ether fOlks' babies are brought up;
and so you may hold your horses,.for I shall just ;put my hand
into my trousers-pocket, and pay the bill."'
And he did -and thea purpleporphyry was of the richest,

40

463

f
r   a
t      a
k
i
1   x     !     i
R
t' +
i
'   t     A    t
+ x
i i
-1
s"
E
1   f     t    {
i      (
t   c      i
2
5
f         (     ,
i   j     Y     I
1
1   d       j[
{   f      E
t ( 4
I
f
f x
I IN
1
5 F
t
4 1
{
. 4
t
t
1 ;
tF!   t
1 S
Y
j    f(       x
rt   1       i
t,
e '
t
1        -
t
4
,f
4        4
' r 5
1


THE, CZRZSTENING OF THE SEVEN'                                                  45*

THE 'CHRFSTENING OF THE SEVEN

andthe roses and-lilies: carved =around the cherubs' heads were
perfect, through every veined petal.
The church was -crowded, 'and brilliantly lighted ; double
rows of seats, six deep, being' reserved in the centre aisle, as
Mr .Hauxhurst said,, "for the mourners" --or wedding guests,
he being one'of the{ chief.'L
Mrs. Goldsmith went;'and sat in the corner. Her dress was
stiff and black, and tshe huggedakgubrious. shawl around her
lean arms  She looked hideous, and felt perfectly satisfied with
herself, being a- long, way 6n the road ,to perfection since we
first made her agreeable acquaintance. She 'said she had com-
mitted 'no sin for months:.f1suppose she, considered her wel-
ca- oe 'fher innocent daughter one of ,her:'shining graces. Her
sole object in attending upon the marriage service, she clearly
stated to~ bee to-see'heib'igfools folks could make of themn-
selvesuuing 'after the beggarly elements of the world."  Hav-
ing had no 'comuinication with Fred'schild..sinoe" her loving
dieissia that moving, when= shehad insisted upon all work and
no4plays she.did=uot know that =she was to be 'amng the brides-
maids: In. fact, : e. money matters, which engrossed and
worried her, had hindered the close attention:to ithe prepara-
tien for the grandfestivity she iight otherwise have bestowed;
and-eceniag an:;cca ional glowe ing anticipation of the ap-
praching humiliationatshehadgot to coe to," poor Fred's
brownhaired darlingoa not 'in: allher thoughts. I mistake:
.ision f herupturned'face woidhauntber sometimeswhen
the parting drds lhe4badnteedpersisted.inbi once and
againhSeard, "If yo  shokldbesiok,.edt when, sheespied
her  ain gdn betyttike:aroseshe aetueltygrated her teeth,
"or something to that' cffet,thsaporelainbau_ tiers-being
!A    @   a ls elpret nees4 and g  had twoiaindtodrt-oiut
and drag her away. If looks could kill, poor Chris's'trials had

been soon ended, so malignant, nay; deadly, was-the gaze which
followed her to the altar.
Mary Ann Nickson was there, ir costly bridal robes, looking
pale and sad; and her husband,' though he diffused an atr os-
phere of gin around' him, probably knew quite wellwhat he was
doing, for he laid profane' hands on the necks and 'arms of all
the girls he could cone at.
Eye hath not seen, Ithink, a lovelier sight: thanthe proces-
sion which swept up the aisle. Sabrina, a breathing violet, with
Jan Vedder at her side-; then Christabel, in trailing:robes of rosy
pearl, her curls-'of ,sun-touched chesnut - tucked behind her
small ears, a bunch of deeph-hued pansies in her' simple snood,
and on her' breast a 'like odorous -cluster fastened, with the
curious brooch she just saw, and never forgot, when Uncle'
Alec'bought the 'gifts for his nieces.
Up at Craigenfels, when she had gor dressed, and kissed by
faithful Debby, and was waiting in the deep windowlooking out
toward the summer house, her brides man-had come to her,
while she wasdreading the trial beforeher,-'and-training hers
thoughts and blushes to orderly, hiding, and he had hisjhands ful
of flowers.
"Permit me I Sapha must, not lack her insignia,'' said he;
and without waiting her :permis ion, or-for a word of reply,'he
fastened some velvet 'blooms in theirplaces }amn= g 'her curls
and with a:smile he placed others-iiihern hand.r
"Come this wa-y,"'he continuedleadig her -to themirror;
"I must leave the- breast-knot t nire desterousefngers,,and
here is what will app opriatly fastenit," Joldingip' the ios
cluster of a  rethysts and opalbs  Despatch, I pra:)nyou,-teath
muse, -and let nie ,hold youcomple '
Chris wanted refuse pshemnean to; -but she did not, with

W         E     i
' Ei  _
a       2{.
,
;
J ~{3
.
'               "'  :
t ,
j~      1' {.
@        .
r
t    F     1
}
3
c

{
a           I
k
1
4f     s-
t
-      i
{
f
t
t
1 '
P
t
E   3

45

A55


THE CHRISTENING OF THE SEVEM

THE CHRISTENING OF THE SE VEN.

t
i
h
;.r
t  f
a     +
45'T .

him standing courteously waiting, expectant, certain, absolute,
and talking pleasantly.S
"#Thereis a neWstatue of you just discovered --a portrait,
wrought out of marb  by an unknowns artist. I should like to
take you to it, and ascertain fdr myself how much you -are to.
day like, your old Lesbian self. Let me see!l those features are
perfect Grecian, and the pos6 of the head and handling of lyre
are wonderful for grace. She wears ear-rings, a necklace, ahd
bracelet, and they are all exquisitely'chiselled."
Her fingers trembled; she feared he was about to mention
the gems "for Otho's wife," and she dropped her flowers. He
picked them up, and restored them, and she made -haste to
place them as she was desired, and to clasp above them the
precious spray of glittering pansies,
"Thanks, Sapho !" said he. " Quickly and prettily done !"
And{then he threw in a little of the spice he was fond of using.
in his talk with her, both to please some humors of his own, and
for its visible effect upon-her. "It is said that the true name
of your.flower comes from 'paonsee,' because of its resemblance
to a peacock in shape and color, and that it is the vegiss mein
nicht alone which has the power to give us thoughts ; but you
and I, sweet Sapho, kno'W better than that; and may we never
be so poor as to lack- our precious pansies, either here or in
those celetia gardenswhere angels are the wardens.,
The tremble andfiutter'of emotion his words awake ed still
shineuered over her, while;she moved softly upthiroad aisle
upon the_ arm of this "dominarit"oung man, whd walked
proudlyadwas followed by Zoe and Peter.
Thepeople, who know 1*it one way of doing things "the
stereotyped folks - drew longbreats;androlled i ateir eyes,
whe i they espied ponegran tes=anionghbride'sig bos-

soms. Mrs. Walsingham herself had remonstrated, and laid the
subject before Peter.
" It is not seemly ! Nobody ever heard of such a proceed-
ing ! and, besides, the language of that scarlet thing is foppery !
That is what the pomegranate means !"
"It means Zoe to me," said sturdy Peter, "and its language
is perfection. Leave them alone;" and he got what he deserved,
a good hearty kiss from  his glowing bride, for his decision.
After the pair came Dick and Pauline. Here again the fault-
finders had material for their vocation. This little couple were
in the full dress of Washington's time -court-train, lace ruffles,
powder, shoe-buckles, and all -and extremely handsome they
looked, and eminently well pleased with each other. Pauline
had insisted that Gracie should also have a dress, and walk in
the party.
"Why not?" asked she; "Dick's got two arms, and I can't
use but one of them."  She was, after a long persuasion, ever-
ruled by her little mother, and comforted with the promise of a
fancy masquerade, where Gracie should shine resplendent.
As soon as the marriage service was ended, the bridal party
stepped back in a group around the flower-crowned font, and
Mr. Growing placed himself beside it. Dulcet, who was to
have the new organ till her place could be more artistically
filled, and who had rendered the wedding march in remarkable
style, came hastily down from the. choir, and soon reappeared
from the minister's room, leaning*upon the captain's arm, and
heading the procession of innocents,,or, as the captain kept
whispering under his breath, "Seven golden candlesticks, seven
lambs," etc.. The pale cripple held the hand of the oldest girl,
and the others toddled after themiwthe fresh nurse bringing up
the rear with the mite of humanity in her arms which Sonsie
and Jan had picked out of the rubbish; or,. at least, a good

456

f
'.

Y
'
t   i
1
y
S
1     t   f
V
i
'     h
t
-     i
s    ,
L   f
r
Y-
r
7     S   jt
P
f         i
Y     f   i
!         6
,
i         ;
1          1
t
I      i
,f          Y
f
I
S
t
a
i
i
i  , 1


459

458

THE CHRISTENING OF THE SEVEN.

deal of christening robe and very much cap left it to be in.
ferred that a baby was hidden somewhere among their recesses.
Dulcet had taken good care to have printed in clear type the
names of rthe children, fearing that -the captain's truant tongue
might run its favorite trip among the sevens. They were chris.
tened in couples. The pale cripple had already sought and
found:his patron saint, in her ,corner, and his soft, meditative
eyes rested upon. her while Mr. Growing sealed him with her
name. And then the little girl-"Virginia Marguerita Eglan.
tina." Mr. Growing pronounced the words quite distinctly, and
the assembled listeners looked at each other. Old Miss Petingill
croaked under her breath like a. discontented frog: "Pecu-
liar, how folks' can !"  When the next pair approached, and the
sweet "Morris" -had been bestowed upon the pretty boy, and
the pastor read from his list " Florabella Cassandrina Fenes-
trella," he could not help the twinkle in his eyes; but when the
third girl left the font, christened "Ludovica Clotildetta Jasa.
minta," everybody laughed, and the young minister fixed his
eyes upon the ground, and caressed his beard a moment, before
he offered the concluding prayer. 'Dulcet had been too much
engrossed in her anxieties, lest the seven should disgrace her
by crying, to notice the grinning assembly, and though the cap.
tain turned rather red,' he' stuck out'his foot, fifth position, and
thus consoled himself.'
"So long as my 'wife is suited I don't care a darn! Let 'erm
laff"    '
:And so the wedding and" the christening were over. Now
occurred a curious phenomenon. Sonsie Eagan, who, though
much urged, hid declined being among the guests - Sonsie
watched; them with her brigptpblie eyesIas they passed out,
and said' eyes filled with eat;,=all the while being fixed upon
Sabrina Bradshaw-and Jan Vedder. A handsome couple they

THE: CHRISTENING OF THE SEVEN.

were, she thought, and very likely to stand before that altar
some day, as centre figures, in just such a ceremony, they being
the same in station, of 'the one kind, well-matched, and where
would she -Sonsie Eagan --be then? And she experienced
an angry pang as Jan stepped proudly along with Miss Brid-
shaw on his arm. He had not once looked in her direction;
did not even know she was there ! He was in gay holiday-face
and exquisite dress, and carried himself handsomely. Sabrina
looked well-pleased and very beautiful; and then Mrs. Vedder,
who only a couple of days ago had called her "daughter,"
flitted past in rustling silken robes, gleaming in jewels, quite
different to the pleasant everyday lady she knew-her. Even
her dear " white angel" was unconscious of her neighborhood,-
"so near, and yet so far"-and she,,the Irish lassie, separated
from them all, " across a gulf"-- coarse, rough, unskilled in the
graceful acquirements which made them  so self-poised, so
quietly, elegant. She had asserted the fact before ; it was no
news to her. There was surely no call for the amazing discom-
posure, or keen sense of outsideness, which pierced her through,
as she walked slowly home, alone, her head bent.;. She fought
it out, though, and entered the Horseshoe as bright and cheery
as ever. While her brisk feet. patted over the floor she revolved
her plans, andfixedly settled her energies among them.
Mrs. Goldsmith stalked out of church, stiff and .grim, resolv-
ing to put an .end tp all such wicked foolingg ad ifolderols
--fetch home her girl, and put -her'through a course of sprouts,
and take the kink out ofher"' Her eyes, as sharp as those-of
which Proctor said "they looked as if they could pick up pins
and needles" -(though, by the way, who could ever fancy d ar
Elia with sharpeyes) --Coverd  , uncoscious child .spite.'
fully, as she glided on ; and Mi  E rngill told Mrs. Hitchcock

c
r
{
s
1
f
4
1     6
LI
i
S
1    @ i
1     t
I
't
f    fi^
,i
(
1
{
t.
i
.  I
i1
t
i       '
t
r
(

l    C   I''
t
Y'        '
i    f
f
s'
i
t
3
s I
i


THE CHRISTENZAG OF TFE SEVEN.

that " the widder didn't look a mite speakful, but she was going
to make her talkf anyhow."-
"Well, what d'ye think ont, Miss Goldsmith ?"
"I don't think nothing' on't ! Why gaddest thou about so
much to change thy way? 'For this, gird thyself with sackcloth,
lament and howl. - Jeremiah ii. z6.'"
Before she had completed her cheerful utterance she felt a
nudge at her elbow, and a voice whispered, "Widder, widder,"
and she turned a stony visage upon Esquire Hitchcock, who
was winking at her.
"You've got a lot of shares in the 'Sprightly,' I believe;
haint you?"
"What dye ask that question for?" snapped back the widow,
setting her gums together for the ill news she saw in his fallen
face.
" Cause it's gone up ! busted ! that's all. Misery kinder loves
company."
"Then rny ten thousand dollars is lost!" muttered the old
woman through her livid lips; "but it shan't come out of
Qhandy's part. I'll fix it yet I Yonder thankless girl shall
pinch and worry for it. See her flaunting and lippin, in her
finery! I'll never pay a cent for themgewgaws ! never ! The
fools that got 'em may look out for their money where they can,
and she shan't go, off in that are kerrege, when her poor old
mother, trudges afoot, no I" . The widow's eyes glared and
rolled, and her face worked hideously, and one corner of her
mouth twitched around towards her left ear and stopped there.
I'll drag her out! I'll shame the godless creatur before them
tall' slap herface! Here,  u good-for-nothing Christabel"
She started to run after Fparty. "Cursed be ye all!
for behold I will send e   scockatrices among you, that

will not be charmed, and they shall bite you.' Stop that girl !
Pull her out of them clothes, I tell you !"
The crowd parted right and left, and gazed in silence after
the black figure, with the working face and wild-glaring eyes,
stumbling on into the darkness while the carriage rolled swiftly
away.

CHAPTER XLIII
" IF YOU SHOULD BE SICK."
HE subdued noise and flutter of Zoe's reception were
at their height. Uncle. Alec, with his Coleridge face,
"round, ruddy, and unfurrowed as a holy friar's, and
his flowing, silky beard - what a benign, smiling face we all
knew it!" though something saddened to-day. -"What a com-
fortable, respectable figure."
Mr. Lankman, in swallow-tails and white kids; Mrs. Lank-
man, in airy costume of sea-green, were the centre of a circle
who discussed Christabel's new book. It had appeared a
couple of days before in the book-stores, in plain brown bind-
ing, and bearing the monogram of the Royal George upon its
back, and as it was only a. booklet-three hundred pages or
so - it had already been devoured by half the Roaring River-
ites, who were ready to pronounce judgment upon it.. Mrs.
Lankman sometimes did little. critiques when her worthy hus-
band's duties crowded him. She never saw much good in any
thing. The lily itself was scarcely white enough to please her,
and somehow in perusing her       usions you had a vision
of a pug nose turned up in as for her English, she
had so strained it through th   of hypercriticisn that it
39*

f
F 1
r
. 3       r  p
e
f  '
a
t
t    3
k
1
i
I
i   k  1  s
i    _  t..
1        .
S'
ii
Ft
i
A4
i7
f
. 1
f     -
i     )  f
y       ;k
f .  1
1
' k1

461

e                           6
e
Sy
Vt
7
y
C
^      4.
r
i

46

IF YOU SHOULD BE SICK,


462 -     " IF YOU SHOULD BE SICK."

ran as heavy as whale oil in winter, and the- edges and salient
points of her conversation were polished into such glassy prim-
ness, that' there wasn't left a peg to hang a thought uon.
"It deals with no, great problems. The characters are pro.
jected with no force: it is a breezy book' said Mrx Lankman,
oracularly.
"What do you mean by a breezy book?" asked Miss Brad-
shaw.
"He means, my charming young lady," said the sub-editor's
wife (she had great respect forSabrina, as eldest daughter of a
wealthy gentleman, whodroye fine horses, dressed elegantly,
and spent money), "he means that this poor authoress has
conmfitted the Very lantentabie error of putting improper lanJ
guage i to then youths of her characters. Theirconversati6n is
flaVored with slang--- the kind of slang whichis the ineffaceable
stanip' of vulgar society."
" Yes,-indeed, that's so,'' said Mrs. Pedlow. "Gentlemen
do not talk that way in the presence of ladies."
At this juncture Mr. Pedlow approached.,
"God-evening, ladies. Quite-ashebang this, isn't it?' The
bride coneth -up like a' flower,:doesn't she ? By -   I must
get some of- these-peaches to take me up for a second smile.
You and I had 'no !such"splendiferous fanfdango when we stood
before the altar, Mrs. P. Oh, yes, the world is turning round."
"I am inclined to think. that my estimable partner has taken
a smile or so already," remarked Mr. Starbird, laughing.
"I, for one, am quite surprised. I- knew Mrs. Goldsmith
was vulgarly illiterate and mean, but still yI supposed her daugh-
ter was to a degree educ   .Her book of course demon-
strates that her habits o     nd expression are common
and rudeor how cou           put such language into the
mouths aFier-characters ?"

Mr. Starbird studied the sea-green lady, and :looked amused.
" What a shocking vulgar fellow Dicken must be, upon your
hypothesis. The language of some of his,. people is extremely
unchoice; and Scott, he should be a swearing, roystering rol-
licker ; and Mrs. Stowe, a down-east Yankee. .But we suppose
Dickens to be a gentleman, Scott was :among England's peers,
and we.know that the, dear womanly author of 'Pearl of Orr's
Island' is a high-bred lady."
Sabrinad:fixed smiling eyes upon Mr. Hauxhurst, who ques-
tioned her for .her thoughts.
"I was revolving a day spent'in Toptown lastweek, and
wondering if .Kall the-people I met were vulgar, illiterate,
slangy people.  They certainly looked like gentlefolks, and
some of .them filledresponsible positions. For instance, .papa
took me to a bank, where the grave, potent,, reverend seigniors
communed together.
"' Stocks have gone up higher than a kite."
"' Yes, gold took a tumble yesterday.- The Pandam is dead
lock, though.'
"' I don't see that, You can't safely take stock in-Spriggins s
stories. If you do, you will be up in a balloon before yoi
know it.'
"' Heigho ! I'm afraid we shan't any of us strike ile this year.'
 " Two ladies were talking over a. pile of silks 'in the store.
'I've been working at a thirty-horse power rate all the month,'
said One. I looked in her face, and recognized a witty, distin-
guished author, and I went and stood on a corner to wait for
the street-car. ,A group of well-dressed, handsome American
youth were in conversation..
"'Going to the concert, Fr e ..Little Carlotta beats the
field.'--

c1er
R   }
t   {
i
1
,   f
f
1   r
C
I
f
z   '
r!'
_       y   tt,
f z
ar"
r,
" P
I
r
i-
i
k   f'

  YOU SHOULD BE SICK."      4


464

" IF YOU SHOULD BE SICK':"

. "'Well, no, I can't. I'm played out; unless the governor
will come down wit the stamps, I shall have to shut up shop.'
"'By Jove, I'm in the-same boat. Jordan is a hard road to
travel. Who shall find us a remedy for this consumption of the
purse ?'
"Is that the sort of talk which bears the ineffaceable stamp
of vulgar society, Mr. Lankman.? because, if it is, I know a
good many magnates who are fearfully vulgar!4"
"But, Miss-Bradshaw, waiving that objection, there is noth-
ing new about this book --no startling thoughts, no deep-lying,
far-reaching truths."
Mr. 'Growing had been .listening, and spoke now for the
first time.
"Boileau tells us, sir, that wit and fine writing doth not con-
sist so much in advancing things that are new, as in giving to
things already known an agreeable turn, and, in my judgment,
our dear young friend has admirably succeeded in precisely
that. I, for one, sat up till three o'clock this morning to finish
her charming story, and I feel better for its perusal. I hate
wickedness, and desire purity and truth more- earnestly, and
am altogether refreshed."
"Give me force, strength, power," said Mr Lankman;
"though, of course, it were .idle to expect all that from a
woman. The female mind is not constituted to grasp great
subjects, nor is it able to labor continuously."
"You would 'heave up truth in spondees, and trundle it
down in dactyls,'" said Mr. Growing, smiling.
Captain Slocum being appealed.to, said characteristically, -
"Well, friends, it is a darned sight easier to pick a volum
to bits than to scratch one-together, and if any on you think
you could do a story better th an this girl did hem, I advise you
to set down and try it; and when you have turned out a sup.e-

"RIF YOU SHOULD. BE SICK."           465
rior article, we'll acknowledge the corn. Won't we, Grow-
ing ?"

p

Their critical interview was rather ludicrously interrupted by
Mr. Nickson, who came tugging up his unwilling papa-in-law,
whom he held in durance vile, encircling his weazened little
neck with both arms, while he plaintively and with tears pro-
posed his favorite query again and again, desiring to inform
himself why the deacon was the handsome lover of the capulet,
to the intense amusement of the bystanders.
"Nickson has been drinkin' ! " said Mrs. Esq. Hitchcock in
the ear of her wedded lord.
"What makes you think so?"
"I know so. Why, what do you suppose the creatur up
and done? I declare if he didn't take holt and kiss me.'
" He must have been drunk, my dear-as drunk as a fool.
No outsider, in his sane mind, would be guilty of that !" replied
the Esq., in grim enjoyment of his own drollery.
" He shall be dealt with for light conduct -cut off for guz-
zling !" Mrs. Hitchcock asserted, very red in the face. "I'll
bring him up."
"We may not fellowship such a man, my dear; that's so, but
we will keep quiet till we've settled Growing's hash. Mum's
the word now."
"Just hear that Nickson gabble-- do !" ejaculated old Miss
Petingill. "I swon, he won't never fall down stairs for want
bf a tongue; and there's Adelizy Euphemy! Her ma thinks
she's the squinchescence ; but if you'll believe me, I see her
tother day puzzlin' over a gridiron down to Larky's, and. the
impudent clerk told her 'twps a -curry-comb, and she b'leeved
him. How de do, Dulcet? Law sakes ! if you" don't look as
trim as an old bumble-bee ! I wouldn't have believed you
could been so soft as to have took in all them yung ones

G

I


466        "IF YOU SHOULD DE SICK.,"

to fetch -up; and I must say I think better 'on you'for doin' on't,
and it was a sweet pretty sight to see 'em walkin' up, two and
two, and I told Marsha you'd :hef 'to feed :em on- beef's mar..
rer to get 'em strong enough to.: tug' around all them awful
names you stuck onto 'em. Massey me ! I hope your health
will hold out, and yer money 'too. 'I had to laff to see the
little dog-skins -squirm when, he dabbed the cold water onto
their foreheads.  I wonder how they'd a stood the dose of salt
I see the Catholic priest tuck into,a baby's rmuth once, when
he was fisheratin' to a baptism.- Peculiar ! how folks can ;and
I say, Dulcet, if you want any tailorin' done for that hump-
back, I guess I can fit him for you.".
Jan Vedder stood before the open window, thinking of a pair
of damask "cheeks, and liups to match, and two eyes of Irish
blue, which 'had looked merrily into his, while 'their owner par-
ried with jokes arid-fun all his arguments to induce 'her to join
the wedding party, and show herself 'at Zoe's reception; ard
the difficulties in his hedged-up way seemed insurmountable.
A quick, firm clasp of four supple fingers' upon his hand sent the
blood galloping, and painted his cheeks with celestial rosy red.
" Ah, Ollam  Folda the stubborn! 'Your 'Ere's curiosity
made you to come and tike a peep after all, then V though your
perverse wilfulness kept you from complying with "the' wishes
of your best friends to appear here as guest, and you stupidly
hid yourself up, like a- perverse little teaze, as you are, and
thought I would not see you," began Jan.
"Hush, Mr. Veddler, sir! Whisper," interrupted Sonsie,
"till I tell you. The wider --she's down of a ethroke and
Miss Chris '11 soon be an orphan. Motherless she's always
been, poor dear. You must get speech wid Mr. Otho, and bid
him bring out my' white angel' to me poor arms, which has got
no power to shelter her from sorrow, till we breik it gently to

her, and take her to the bed-side that'll soon be empty. Ah,
purty darlin'! how sweet she looks, standin' so gentle and mod-
est, and 'Mr. Otho's eyes upon her. 'Tis easy seeing that he
just worships her, for all his high ways. .Well, my dream is
coming true - deep water, and trouble, and the: pale woman
who beckoned me to take the plunge."
Jan's horses were at the door, and not much time had
passed before they stood by the paralyzed woman, stricken
down in the heat of her anger and remorseless purpose. Her
black eyes glittered, as they lighted upon the pale face of her
white-robed daughter, with a hateful look, from which the poor
girl shrank away shuddering, and hid her face in her hands.

CHAPTER XLIV.
SON SIE GOES TO SCHOOL
HE fifteenth of April was the commencement of the
Rosenblom term, and Sabrina had got to leaveher
friend Chris with her young heart full of trouble.
Sonsie also, ruch as she desired to stop and 'help, was ordered
to go. Fred's child was quiet and strong, and though she loved
to feel the warm arms of the brave maiden around' her,, and to
rest on her'courageous heart, she dismissed her to the work
which she was panting to commence. The sympathetic Mile-
sian's face was overclouded, and her eyes were wet, and so were
her crimson cheeks, when she bade. her "white angel" "good-
by," and her fervid speeches were as Irish as possible, and full
of poetic imagery, and her heart throbbed with true love wd
the tenderest pity. Her kind offices, however, had _heen out-

SON.S'IE GOES TO SCHOQL.     467

f   !       Y
}    t _
F  1


SONSIE GOES TO SCHOOL.

side the sick-room. Once she had walked up to the bed, and
Rainbow, following, her, had leaped to her shoulder, and looked
down upon his prostrate foe. The paralytic's soul was alive
and watchful, as her snapping eyes showed, and though her
tongue was half dead, she managed it enough to - order them
out, and she looked the broomsticks and pokers she could
no longer wield; and Captain Slocum, who had been paying a
visit of neighborly condolence, walked out with Sonsie.
"Good day, my dear," said he, grinning. "You see the
widder don't seem to hanker arter. your company. I'd. kinder
save up my pearls, if I was you. Dulcet  she was hopin'
you'd make time to look in on our seven golden -critters-
[the captain pounced upon his word and clinched it with vig
orous purpose] - before you go. Your namesake grows heav-
enly every day. It would fetch tears out of a stun wall to see
him fold his little thin hands and pray for us all by name. He
never leaves out one. Papy, many, Sonsey, Jan, and 'tother
six, and I yum ! he's took to drawin'. His slate is all the while
full of roosters and popple-trees, and all sorts of things. Yes,
we'll make an architect or an artist out of that young one won't
we ?  I take solid comfort with the rascal, and I owe i all to
you and Jan. Lord ! what a spry fellar that Dutchman is !
Why, there's enough stuff in him to furnish fifty of them chaps
we see potterin' up and down Broadway, switchin' their leetle
canes and trottin' on their leetle legs, about as big, as pipe-
stems ; the vim and pluck all-used out of their spidery bodies,
and the brains all cooked in their silly noddles, with late sup-
pers and carouses they'd be ashamed to tell their sisters and
mothers on, and Natur' - she's sure to revenge herself .too,
epilepsy, gout, water round the heart, and such.  Them's
the pleasures she's savin' up for the gay-sports who despise her
laws. I've heard that Jan used to drink once in a while, but

" SONSIE GOES TO SCHOOL.'

469

he's as straight as a string now. He told me he might have died
in the gutter, if it hadn't been for a friend who took him by the
hand just in the nick of time. [Sonsie's eyes deepened to rich-
est violet, and her breast heaved]. He's as straight as a string
now, though, and as healthy as a two-year-old colt, and as full
of fun, and a regular team for business. Why, what do you
s'pose I catched him and that bridegroom, Peter, adoin' last
night? -takin' the road in a-'hop, skip,"and, jump.' -Jan said
he could'do it all but a foot, and. heused tot clear the-whole
on't, and, I swon, if that are Zoe wasn't -settin' on the gras, like
a cactustblow, in herred frock, looking' on and clappin'her
hands, and enjoyin' it as much as the boys the selves. Yes,
Jan Vedder is a glorious fellow, and the girl he takes a fancy
to may say her prayers, and: thank God fir setting her inside
the pure heart of a whole-souled man. Well, good-by, Sonsie.
I declare, I love to talk with you. I hope you'll Settle down
amongst us, when you've got your learning, and don't forget
your namesake."
Our upright, brisk young Celt did not look quite her confi-
dent self while she was taking leave of the old familiar places.
She possessed to intensity the Irish love for -all pleasant spots,
which were woveninto her memory-chain with links of pleas.
ure; and she was astonished to fitd so much of jaa Vedder
everywhere. -rIn fact, Roaring River and its surrdundings of
hill and valley were full of, the gay fellow, echboedWith his
laughter, treasured his jokes and- quidities,- so that she found
them everywhere, and his longpsensible talks,-his Iish tales,
his histories, travels, adventures, and his kind instructions,
were tucked away into. the pleasant spots, so that she could
pause and gather them up at her wilh  The grassy glen ! be-
yond the forges-where the river foams over therocks,,and the
lofty Turk's head watchesits leaping race -  hyes, there he sat,
40

k
;
k
r

468 -


470

SONSZE GOES TO SCHOOL.

on that very log, and-redited the '.'Song of the hirt,"-and " One
more Unfortunate," and she had cried -bitterly} over the picture
of human -misery his words conjured up. { Down on the flats
ah ! there they two had: found the Proddy twins, and his rifle
had; sent swift death: to the laboring breast of poor mad Plug ;
and what a host of kind, generous acts had followed in natural
sequel ce upon ' Baxter's 'illness-and her needs. Captain Slo.
cum's, eadow--there the rising walls :of the new chapel spoke
of hing and she recalledtfreetalks she had truly enjoyed, wherein
she had uttred and heard plain' truths.'. She: went .to the up-
pasture, ad bugged the sorrel colt, f:whQhad learned to love
her, and she kissed his- sleek face.. {
"I'll never have ary ride upon yer back, pretty creature;
'tisn't nowayslikelyi butt was :a kind thought ofyer good was-
ter, .sed plegaantly spoken, wid his merry mouth, wasn't it,
OllanFold?    lie's braye, -finegentleman. He wears like
iron. Captain Slocum  ays.there isn't flaw in the casting
nor a rust-spot on the polish. I hope he'll get him a wife
. that'll Jove him as he deserves,-'a real, true-born lady.".
She sat down in the flat rock,'and the=old;thought obtruded
itseltfwher#ll;'; Sonsie Eagan, be then?  Oh,:aye; I know
what; isgopd: forhin :end-for myself too;'and ill niver cease
. to offer up prayers-for his happiness, nor for his bonnie mother,
even whilst the ,salt sea-rolsatwi t us, and me a teaching' of the
poorchild en in the little-mud healings to home. Ah, Sonsie,
girl t ydondt a:bit deserve al1 the blessing yer gittin', and yer
whitenn geV'lso heavy hearted. Ye ain't half so grateful and
cheersome as'yeoughttfie."    _
She dropped herFace into her' hands, and took a good hearty
cry. ;She.did not stop to analyze the mixed feelings which set
the tears flowing; and Ollam Folda was sorely troubled with her-
grief,-and stuck his cold nose into her neck, 'and gave her such

471

SONSIE GOES TO SCHOOL.

a4 start that she -jumped up and laughed, and then looking
around her into the bright sunshine and the agreeable colors
of hill and dale, she took hart, and wiped her face and kissed
his.
"' Tis God's. world, coltie, and you. and I belong to him, and
we'll-do his bidding."
Now, this evening before starting, she w seat Craigenfels; by
especial invitation, of=Unde -Alec, who had sent for her to -take
tea with hirnalone  { He had.sonething to say to 'her. The
noble old fellowhad never iade any referetie 'eohis redeit
experience; and nobody would hive gdessed.from his-manner
how deep a holdthe wicked beauty, BelleBrandon; dad taken
of his affectiotinor the battle-royal 'he wvs faiced'daily to
have, trying to drie'here out oft his'thoughts. Sonsie 'pured
the tea, and they ate their rice-makes 'ad Sallr n and
Deb's Tiger4oaf,-and,- 'cream-cheese, and + tte slraon;and
the luscious strawberries Thomas plucked froufi his  Brooklyn
Blushes, and 'after it was over they wetnt'into the.libaxy, and
Uncle Alec lighted his4cigar.
";Well, Roukie, you are about to become a school girl. I
am very glad. You will be certain to get on famofisiy- make
a scholar, and a usefulwoman. Jshan't beimere *her you'e
finished.  I may never see you after this evening, but be
assured I shall never forget you:'
He crossed his hands over}'his capacipus waistcoat, and
looked thoughtfully down upon them, and did forget her, then
and there.' After a while- a roundige o hot  s   droped
upon his finger, and effectually roused 'hinm; and he raised his
eyes, and met bier violet soft ones fixed upon leirn'with an odd
mixture of resentment and sorrow in their'steadfast glance.
" Ah, Rokie" said he, sighingmit"was rather tougaon an
old fellow, wasn't it? 'I can hardlyilake niselfbeliee it'isn't

'*

t
r
fi
t'
r


SONSIE GOES TO SCHOOL.
two months yet since I saw thatFbeautiful face of hers in the
theatre.  What a face it was, SonsieI what a voice! what
witty, brilliant things that brain of hers conceived, and how
skilfully and entertainingly she brought them forth. Oh, yes,
full of grace and richness everyday.".
"I wish I could give you a dose of that water that Mr. Jan
told me of, that makes us forget. Just consider what a cruel,
false heart' there was inside of her.; then all herbeauty turns to
ashes, aid the rre being gets the more hateful for it. Don't
ye be fretting after her ! don't,, sir, I beg of ye."
"mpt, houkie," he reached out and patted her shoulder with
his large, fair hand, "but, I really loved the child."  He leaned
backhand clasped his fingers behind his white head, and the
smpke-wreaths curled up. toward the ceiling, while he puffed in
silence, " There was an old Moor once," he began after a
little, a, like me, declined into the vale of years, who had a wife,
a young andrs flipped cherubim.  Fair Desdemona, herself,
that cunningest pattern of excelling nature, couldn't have been a
match for yon radiant, gifted child. But he killed his darling,
Roukie, smothered, her, sleeping, though his very soul was
bound up in her love. He killed her in her beauty, but he
{    made bitter moan over her loss.  Had she been true ! said
he, --u
. "'If Heaven could make me such another world
Of one entire and perfect chrysolite,
I'd not have sold her fort t."'
{ ±  " I know how that old heathen felt. 'Tis ,a pity, Roukie, a
snare, to meet such cruel souls, shut up in such perfect girl-
hood, isn't it?  But never mind ; we won't think any more
about her. I didn't mean to speak of her. -I ought to, have
known better, I suppose; and it doesn't sweeten the dose any,
to be sure, hat everybody will be sure to say so - not that

SONSIE GOES TO SChOOL.

4183

I care in the least about that. I. wonder what will become of
the girl, so poor, so wicked, and so very -fascinating?  Why,
Roukie, she walked out of this room that dreadful' day, friend-
less, with her handsome head up, and her face, beaming with
defiant smiles. Oh Lord ! Oh Lord! Well, well, 'tis a pity-
a fearful pity."
" Mr. Craigenfels, sir 11 exclaimed Sonsieboldly, "sure, yer
letting down yeranoblene _t be dwefliig sof 'o yon servant
of the divil I ye should hate anddispise .the thing she is, and 'be
angry for her conduct to ye-instead of speak in-for her."
"I can't hate' her; koukie.- I wish{she wa. good;:and I
can't help thinking what a good time I could have had in see=
ing her possess and dispense the ;full life i had it ii ny heart
to offer her, and of which her gorgeous, affluent nature 'made
her capable. A good many years ago, I turned mny back upon
Craigenfels, because I could not endure the familiar' sights, all
mixed up with heart-aches. I loved a good young girl; she
didn't love me ; I love her  yet -; and though I was very
wretched for a long while, I was young and it wore off; and
my heart got light again,' but I am 'old now. I can't dream
again of any home-joys or' home ties; but there was none of
the terrible bitterness about that time which I have learned to
feel through this girl. My first love is a true, pure woman.
Do you know, child f - of course it is terrible nonsense  but
I hate the smell of those heliotropes. She never shook her
robes, nor tossed back her curls,' but there came a waft of that
odor. Thomas remembers how I 'always used to -like the
flower from a boy, and he. thinks to doa'ne a pleasure by
thrusting it at ny elbow. I can't make up my mind to tell
him not to 'doit. He'd look in my eyes and see"just what an
old fool I am. I shan't stop here'long: I-am only waiting to
see what is in store for Freds child; and then Il return=to 'ny
40*

V
f ,
d
d
t
i
F
a
r
i~
f'
s'

k


A          t SONSIB ES TO COOL.GO

mines}and staythere.  Set thosetell-tale things on:. that
bracket,, up there ins the cabinet, out of sighteand shut the door,
do!-Now come here and weYwill talk about you and your
school,. and. yOur hopes and ,plans. That is a very tidy dress
you eaensRotkied Black iaie    olor for your fresh skin
of lilies and roses.  Now, what if I 'were to choose some"--
'  git esWfor:Elthesgair all . ne ed, assureyou,"
intewpted Sonsie' : 'lee, excuse any uttin'in ne word,
e'er ya'd diishd speikin'sanid: kair you for the kind.
intent.   g 1 ldelittle :black pig,{ sand I've laid out me
wages that Miss. Zoe give me, andMi s Mary Ann,,she brought
me ariedfrock; and Pnnie, he 'would make:me take a pair
of shoes from' him, and Tm going to .school decent and trim.
Me hea.W$is light about Miss. Ruthie.. She's got her brave,
handsome husband back again, and the dear Horseshoe is gay
wid the perfectjoy, and I'd be glad to;go to me work, if only
'me whiteangel ,was comforted, and I'could ,see you, Mr.
Craigenfelk, ia bit more cheersome?
"Oh, never mind me, Roukie. Its deuced unpleasant, but
I'm not going to die of loye :t my age. 'Tis too late for the
'worm i' the:bud;' and as for little pet, poor child, she'll soon
be an orphan, and I shall not leave this till it is. over, and I
suppose, she -will come to you at, Rosenbloom, as soon as her
duty is finished. I wrote to Chandos directly after the seizure,
but the doctor says the chances are that the widow can't last
for him to get home. . I wish she could. Her' soul, such as it
is, dotes on that boy, and I believe she'll fight death as long as
there's the' least hope of looking into his eyes again."
. And so the east :farewell -was said. Mrs. Vedder was at the
cars,;and whispered that she should expect her daughter in the
long vacation, and Sonsie's heartiwas too full for a single word
of answer, as she kissed- the jewelled hand she held ; but she

shookher head, and the fairy lady felt that she "disavotd-the
"daughter," and that her soul said .'1no"
Jan accompanied the young.ladies to Roge1bloomn *He
explained to them, at some length, that his5Vobject was to- con
tract with:J att rsonofor, syente, and p bphyry; ridgi y'gran.
ite for the chapelbecause, as the rstructurejrose, hedloved it,
and was det rmirtedjte build hiss affection into i tith.preciatl.
stones and cuuninghandicraft; and; of course liosen lom
lying only aew paltry hmadredml s ou of iiswayphefeltit
a bounden, duty to . e.the unprotectedfeneales safey houkad
before he, left them. a','ui
Susie Jenkins, who had been in-New Oleans allwinteriwas
about to enter as a pupil, and Peace Pelican, a tall, dshiig
girl from Toptown, daughter of .a wholesa liquordederw-,ho
was pilingrup money, and manufacturing all sorts of1fine 'Vines
brandies, and, So: on- by the_, aid, of drugs, Iog-woodcock
roaches, and- burnt leather, which brought very ighpries, and
set on fire the blood and souls aofthedrinkers, being4itself;set
on fire of hell. But tkat of course wdsen, fant of hissHe
made an honest living, and disbursed Jarge sums in charities,
and kept his family in splendor. The wives and children of
those who bought his made liquors, some of them, went in rags,
were beaten, starved, and died amnid sorrow'nd shanie ; but
the good manufacturer held his head high amongChristian
gentlemen. Peace was avgreat -friend and frequent visitor to
Deacon McCross's Marywho loved' her showy, pleasing, flirt-
ing, witty companionship, she herself being'a 'very woodlark
for modest; quiet behavior. 'She-had often seen  Sonsie at'the
Mission school. She had spasmodically assisted there herself;
but without markedsuccess. 'The walks to and fro .ere 4tite
to her liking with Mr Haushuist, Or Jan, or another
sprightly ,agreeable' comn ion; and shegpiked norend _ f'

.0

ffi
f
i'
1
s
::
r
'k

0.- X, R'- GOES -:TO t   OL.


SONSiE GOES TO ScHOOL.

amusement out of the oddities and sharpness of the young Celts
who scampered into"her class, and clapper-clawed arid buffeted
each other during the exercises., and incidentally treated the
teacher to queer bits of information, between the command.
ments, about their puppies or kittens, and deeply deplored in
her hearing the sufferings of the poor pigs, who went up garret
last flood; and she' returned the loud-voiced "How 'd'ye do,
teacher," which she was apt to get fromr one or the other of the
young vagabonds in. public  places,.concert-halls, and the like,
with vivacious politeness, never:turning the cold shoulder to
their rags, insomuch that they declared, one and all, that Miss
Pelican was' a " bully teacher," and a "brick of a young lady
intirely."t
The faculty of Rosenbloom greeted Sonsie very cordially,
and set her to work at once. Her strong individuality and
fearless; straightforward way of putting things, was very fascina-
ting to them, and she grew in 'favor day by day.' She had a
little surprise when she entered her room the first evening. A
great trunk, marked in bold, white letters,-..
SONSIE EAGAN,
RoaringRiver,
stood .at the bed-foot, and Miss Filer placed in her hand the
key, stating that she had got it in a letter a couple of days be-
fore,:when the trunk had come up by express ; and showed her
the four lines it contained, directing her to give it to Missy
Eagan, and signed "Flossy Vedder."
As soon as she was alone (which was not, until she had
given the little teacher full particulars of Zoe's wedding, and
every incident she could recall concerning9hristabel, about
whom it was exceeding difficult, to satisfy her, and an oft-re-
peated assurance that she certain wou4return to schoo), she

opened the great box, and looked in. It contained a perfect
school-girl's wardrobe, choice, substantial, and admirably se-
lected. She hid away a good nany .tears:into it, and some
prayers mounted from her fervent heart before she cor4ed it-up
again, leaving every thingsjust as she.found it, and hung up her
few dresses, and laid .away:her ueat garments into her bureau,
steady and firm in her determination to keep as much of her
independence as was left her, ,and to put her soul-into' the work
which was to get it back eventually entire.
CHAPTER XLV.
"MY SON CANDOS HAS COME."
IDOW GOLDSMITH was laid low ; her evil days
'were come ; her dust was about to return to the earth
as it was, and the spirit,-well, God created it. 'He
knows all about it. We won't venture an opinion.
Dr. Groenveldt tried the new remedies after despairing of the
old, and all were equally powerless. The hideous contraction
of her wrinkled face remained, and she lay at the mercy of her
watchers, who fortunately were kind. Old Miss Petingili being
summoned, came willingly, yand did her best. At fist, the half-
palsied tongue of the prostrate womantried hard to order her
off, and it was real torture to'the stricken creature to have to
see them all moving about her room at, their pleasure, and she
unable. to hinder.them looking into" her presses,' putting her
things into new places; where she didn't want them, tearing up
her sheets, and using her china, and she lying there, bound,
hand and foot, her nimblest and 'most effective servant obeying
her no longer, the 'hard words and :bitter which it refused to

;,
}  -
i 1,
{
c
2     .

.,4ONSZ.. GOES , TO SCHOOL.


"THY PEOPLE SHALL BE MY PEOPLE."

utter corroding  er; fretted' soul. When.she could -not move
her head any more, the turned her eyes asfr away frori every
approach of her daughter as she was- able; or snapped them
tight together. She. would take -nothing front her hand, or
show the least consciousness of' herski°d speeches, heridutiful
attempts'to be loving, even when she spoke of Chandy. '"If
you should be sick.'", Well, she was sick, but not softened.
The -sudden stroke had come before she had had time to ar-
range that loss, and secure her son, and the thought rankled.
None of her many plans for keeping~ Christabel out of her
equal share of the estate could now be matured. Her rule
was ended, her kingdom about to be divided.
It was a- dreary sick,-roonm, the hideous paralytic, with her
distorted, loveless face, her snapping eyes, watchful, vigilant,
her parchment skin tightening over her projecting bones, wait-
ing the grim approach of her last enemy n-no unekrewhit
were her thoughts. While Mr Growingprayed, she itned
with shut-eyes, and let him depart without a look.  Ren the
one name which had power over her would not melt her, though
the 'anxious gaze she fixed upon the door,'smetinmes, when they
tried: to cheer her silent soul with hope; of the absent boy's re-
turn, showed that :she was .waiting for' a sight of him One
evening they were.'alb in her room. ' Chris was dyingg 'in the
window. "She shad just failed in an autijto get' a look from
the ahfaul 'ayes, :...onlystony hadiess' er bitter tralignity.
She could iet bear to:haveit so;' hr n  }heart.was en sdft.
ened andtender and-she lolngedt "get a ittle'assranee 'that
her penitencewas accepted  'rvilfdinessforgiven :
Therewas. noise of -feet. uponthe walk,nd 'thewidow's
gaze.'fastened 'uponthe!°dor witha longing concentration;
whichpemed 'like pewer to pierce the dull niateriafband see
her desias beyond  Ahdad lifted t-e latch  Ten came a

f
f
5
r1
t
4
Y
{
k
=    F
F
i

flash of red blood over the parchmeat skin and the power of
mother-love unlocked the poor-tbng:e -whose last words had
been cruel to her only daughter, 5andthey' were statled by a'
iving voice out from that dead body-- a strg triumphant.
crying, which pierced their hearts s
"My son Chandos,'has 'come "
Their eyes followed the glittering glance' which :clove the
trembling air, and Mr. JohnmNickson' entered, with a roll of
"Sprightly" bonds in his hand. He :also brought :death with
him, for the hope-gleam faded out of the expectant face,. be-
neath the filmy shadow of everlasting silence, and' Chandos, the
beloved, and Christabel, the neglected, were orphans.
CHAPTER XLVI.
"THY PEOPLE SHALL BE MY' PEOPLE."
HE twentieth of May, three hundred, and' sixty-five
days agone; Fred's -datghter met with Otho. at the
old wall, and as sheleft .her homesteadin her black
dress she unconsciouslyturniedher stepsfin that dire-tion.
The day was a faithful copyof that pne s, well-remembered,
and every thing 'looked' so tnuch the same, ;eyen to iRaibog
who trotted at her side, that she had:need toetnrn her .eyed in-
ward, to find the great changes.which had co e to pass. She
was bidding adieu to al, the fauliar'objects, begase she i,
tended to go back to Roseltoo  in' a coupleftd ys d  She
had been since the funeralalone in the- grea1Shouse.' Miss
Petingill had 'gone homels-oor s her work was ended,
cause Chris onld not bearleryigays, an  hnuberless

t-

« M ,SOH CMAND 05 "HAS' COME."


49G     "Ti7Y PE OPLE SHALL BE MY PEOPLE."
questions she asked.  She wanted time to think her old
thoughts, and steadily refused all invitations to leave her home.
She had lived much in:her father's studio,, which she had not
for so nany years been permitted to eater, and was able to re-
call vividly her pleasant childhood among the well-remembered
objects,- the  pictures, easels, the studies, and thousand cher-
ished belongings which poor Fred had gathered together, and
made vehicles of instruction to his darling. She assured her-
self that .she had the right to carry out her father's plans, and
she arranged her life as nearly as possible to his model.
Nothing had been heard from Chandy, and Uncle Alec consti-
tuted himself her guardian till the proper period should arrive
for the settlement of the estate. Otho Groenveldt was gone
also. He had been all kindness in the trying days, and Chris
did not know herself' how much he had comforted and sus-
tained her; but his work was done, as it appeared, for he had
left suddenly, without farewell, and nothing was since heard
from him, and though his ipse dixit was the sub-tone in the.
young orphan's meditations, her old hopes belonged to the
past ; and as she walked along, she- told herself how  her future
must be an isolated one, and how the promise she bad wade
Chandy, to be his old-maid, home-missionary, seemed likely
to be accomplished. An independent life, without hero-worship
without the 'beloved to whor she must say, "may I ?" is not
the natural one for a young maid todream ofwhateverthe strong-
minded may tell-us to the contrary;and although many of our
noblest and best liveit usefullyand happily, still, Chris, who had
known what rest and abounding joy a true love for a true man
brings to a woman's heart, Chris, felt a little dreary in looking
adown the vaW of time and seeing no husbandashadow beside
her own in the moonlight, and no guiding manhood to establish
her home; and the cer-tainty 'that slie must finish her journey,

"TilY PEOPLE SHALL BE MY PEOPLE."~

481

an unclaimed waif, whom nobody owns, was not inspiriting
but she had long before resolved to get all the flavor and relish
out of her existence she could, coax or force it to yield, and she
still meant to have it.  The crevices of the rocks were full of
reindeer moss, and at her feet, behind the asclepias spikes' and
last year's mullein stalks, were springing the tiny fronds of the
sensitive fern, which she remembered shrinking from her touch
that day; and she plucked some of the pale-green lichens,
crimson-tipped cetaria, and fragile maiden's-hair and' bound
them thoughtfully together.
"Sapho !" said a well-known voice at her elbow, "I felt
sure of finding you here, because I know you have never forgot-
ten the day nor the place.  No other day in any of our years
(Heaven grant that they may be many) can ever have precisely
the color and flavor of'that 2oth of May. Those vivid fuchsias
are gorgeous; Mr. Bradshaw's lawit is emerald velvet ; the
sweet scent of the rosy-tinted apyle-blossoms is marvellous ; but
that afternoon, when the crescent moon hung pale and clear
right over there, and the crimson hammock swung from yonder
tree, and Chris wore her sun-bonnet on her shoulders, and
Pauline and Gracie danced' and laughed before her, was won-
drous in its completeness. Do you suppose that little Alder-.
ney has been croping the grass ever since ?  It seems that
she dipped her creamy head in that very spot three hundred
and sixty-five days ago. Here comes some fluttering petals
from yon topmost'bough, falling like voiceless snow-flakes at
her feet. The tree was covered with blooms that day. Nr-
member, Captain Slocum told me, as I came up, that t
had been a terrible blowth on the orchards, and the spring,
which lingered then, and produced her treasures slowly, is
speeding past us now with flying footeps. All the buds and
bells of May/are 6tut rejoicing iiithe ishinie apd Sabrina'
41

F..

41 y,
c
4
Y

f
N
f  t
-j
1      }
I
i      i
f
f      7
J
I
i
f
f


 " THY PEOPLE SHALL BE MY PEOPLE."

fallow deer lift their stately crests, and calmly "eye us over."
I suppose they studied and admired us then. Ah, Sapho!I
could look around, and imagine that I had but just listened to
a sweet voice, which flows in musical cadence, reciting the
'Cateral.' 'Tis only when I gaze in the Lesbian's face that
I find change ; that shy child-life has blossomed into orbed
maidenhood. Last year she was afraid to show me her eyes;
to-day she is unwilling. Those mosses -please leave them in
peace, and look at me. Come, dear, dearest Sapho ! You
know me quite well now. You have seen me at my worst and
best, and you love me just as I am -Ican make you happy.
There walks not another man on the footstool who can ever
be Otho Groenveldt to you. I believe, nay, I know, that God
made this great self-willed fellow -:full of terrible faults, and
also full of love and tenderness- to be the husband of Chris-
tabel Goldsmith.
He smiled joyously, and reached out his Mand. Chris had
been looking at him as he desired, and her eyes filled with tears
before he finished.
"I hope so, indeed, Otho," she said, as she softly laid her
little yielding fingers upon the strong, nervous ones, which
clasped them instantly in spirit of ownership, and he noted and
understood-her gentle sigh, half wearinesshalf content.
" Bertha says I am a terrible tyrant.  You do not be-
lieve it."
"I kinow it thoroughly, Otho -nobody so well as I; but I
am not afraid ; at least, not much. You must be as merciful
a j~our haughty, imperious temper will let you, and I shall
sometimes rebel - oftener submit."
Nay, my darling, sweet Sapho, you shame me. If ever I
feelminded to play' the tyrant, I'll remember the rare glimmer
of your pretty eyes, their wistfulness, and their ,timid faith at

this moment ; that will surely keep me in order, or I must be a
monster indeed. I am sure'that love. is a vital principle, and I
know it. is immortal, else mine for you must have died long
ago. But fighting could not -subdue it, starving could not, kill
it.' It conquers courage, defies manhood, and I am willing
to be its obedient slave."
"You set me a terrible lesson, Otho. I think I learned it so
faithfully, that it will serve me for a lifetime."
"I also got a lesson, I believe," he replied grimly, "which
sent me adrift, cut loose from all I desired, a lonely man, trying
to leave myself behind me and to forget my love. But I could
not lay violent hands upon Sapho's image, nor-so shut the door
upon it that it was not ever present with me. I don't think I.
shall make the worse husband though, for my lesson."
" Truth is serious, and has few friends, but I have accepted
it even when it cut 'deepest, and I'll- try my best to make a
more perfect wife for mine," replied Chris, simply.
After a long pause, during which both were thoughtful, Otho
said in his peculiar, quick, sedate fashion, " When will you go
in at the door of the little church on my arm, and come- forth
my very own ?"
"When, Otho I I cannot answer that. I must go to school
Thursday, and there are three busy years before ne, you know,
of hard study."
"Now I am going to begin to play tyrant, Sapho, and say
you shall-not return to Rosenbloom."
Chris raised her -eyes - a 'little shade of disappointment
dropped over them, which cleared off into smiling radiance in
an instant, drawing light from his true, earnest, steady ones,
and she replied quietly,
" As you please, Otho.
"Perhaps you do not know that your betrothed is an indigo

t     f'  '
C ,}}.
P
i      t' ii
'       n
ty;,
ii    }
F  _(
'   p
7
..
r

it
i t"
483
r ,

,
,

« THY PEOPLE SHALL-BE MY PEOPLE."

482


484   "THY PEOPLE SHALL BE MY PEOPLE."
planter. I must shortly visit my farm, and -I cannot bear again
to put the deep sea between me and my" treasure. It is good
of you to' give up your promised joy of graduation at' Rosen.
bloom. I thank you truly. I will never forget it, nor your'
fashion, passing sweet, of relinquishment. You shall not give-
over study, though ; and we will begin to. live outour dreams,
and see the world together."
Chris glanced down at her black robes. Otho's eyes followed
hers-
"'Take them off, Sapho ! I do not like them. They are part
and parcel of some old-time customs I count folly, and I cannot
bear- to see you' in their sombre shadow. Your brother is in
Egypt, and very likely will go to Hindostan before he comes
home again. The say-so of the world is of no moment to us.
Yoei best friends would sanction your immediate marriage,
though it would not matter jn the-'east if they didn't." Chris
smiled. He saw it, and 'the grave, pleasant, answering sourire
played abouthis masterful mouth, which Chris loved to see,
aid he continued, "You have a dear friend at Brookside, ar-
rived in the absente of its mistress, who is all ardor to fall upon
your neck and give you her blessing."
Chris colored; her thoughts flew to Madame.
"It if your-faithful old teacher, Miss Filer. I brought her
away with me, because" I seemed to know you desired to have
her. I Uder-stodd that you would not turn your back upon
your fathers house till you, are mine, and I could not permit
you to stay alone. You should have seen her when I. proposed
the arrangement: Nothing except my height, saved me from
a kiss."      '
"Dearest Filey !" exclaimed Chris.  "I must hasten to
her."'
."9Yes, Sapho, -- and my father and mother are shorty com-

"THY PEOPLE SHALL BE MY PEOPLE."            85
ing to bless their daughter. If any thing in the wide world could
heap my joy, it would be my dear, good father's pleasure in
you. He loves his pupil very dearly. And my mother -nay,
do not hide your face-my mother also loves you. She told
lie so, with some words of confession I hated, to hear her speak
- and I entreat you to meet her half-way, as you can grace-
fully afford to do - you, who have youth, beauty, and every
good and precious gift to bestow upon her only and well-beloved
son.  And now tell me, darling, when will you begin to be
my slave? That' was your own word, remember ; you gave me
the right to use it."
"'Thy people shall be my people,' "said Chris, firmly, putting
away some uinwelcome intruding memories. "Arrange my life
as you like ; it is all yours."
"Thanks, sweet, noble Sapho ! I am glad you hagT *s-
posed of that cloud. Don't let it come again. You arMve
both bought our experience, and paid for it. If we had the
nine hundred and ninety-nine years of the Patriarchs before us
we might reasonably expect to live the last one in tolerable
perfection, but as we have somehow got cut down to a brief
span, we must even act our parts as -well as we can, and waste
no time in idle regrets. Now, my bride, I want my way en-
tirely about otir wedding.. Please me, and wear the habit you
wore when you threw away my pansies, and afterward took
my Provence buds. Dress your hair in that wondrously lovely
fashion, and let me come down with Tramp and Zephyr, and
carry you off secretly."
Chris laughed.
"Well, Otho, for a grave, silent man, I must say you hide
away a good deal ,   _of very nice, enjoyable romance. I shall
like that sort of bridal of all things."
" Thank you, dearest. Oh, how rich your. sweet face is in
s41*

G
, tt;
j-[ -
.  : 'i
{J.

ii
i
,,
'
.
;
is


J

488

"BLESSED IS THE BRIDE.''

changing lights; how fresh and balmy your breath comes to me,
caressing my cheek; and how tender and true is. each arrowy
eye-beam freighted with a sigh.' I thank my God ,for his boun
teous great goodness, and I mean to be worthy of you. My
Pansy, my Sapho ! now indeed you are mine. Only death shall
part me from my wife."
CHAPTER XLVII.
"BLESSED IS THE BRIDE THAT THE SUN SHINES ON."
HE few guests were assembled=- the Walsinghams,
Bradshaws,Vedders, Slocums, and Groenveldts. Mary
Ann Nickson could not come, to her great.grief. She
was too poorly --fainting and dizzy, and keeping her bed,
half the time. Ruth Blair, clinging to her grand giant; and
Uncle Alec, courteous, and rather silent. Mr. Growing walked
about under the pines, and talked with his dear friends. The
day-was a solemn and touching one, because it was the last
couple he expected to join in holy matrimony, of his first flock.
Though he confided his intentions to no one except his old
friend George,- with whom he had enjoyed many restful,
strengthening talks, --and was quietly awaiting the developments
of ripening time, he felt pretty well convinced that his course
struck off from Roaring River. 'Miss Filer, red-nosed and tear-
ful, but very happy, sat on a rustic bench, and looked expect-
antly down the winding path. Sonsie, with Rginbow in her
arms and Flirt at her feet, was beside her, and of course Jan
Vedder leaned against a tree-trunk close by-Sonsie, who
hadset her face as'a rosy flint to oppose his entreaties for her

"BLESSED IS THE BRIDE."

487

presence at this very festivity, and who gladly yielded to Chris's
imperative commands, and grasped eagerly the proffered plea-
sure made rightfully hers.. The sky was adorned with light
masses of cumulus clouds;. softer than carded wool, and the
sapphire beyond them was as deep as Sonsie's eyes at the zenith,
and melted away down by the horizon into palest azure.. If
they had prayed for the day (they did, for aught I know), it
couldn't have been more perfect.
"'Blessed is the bride that the sun shines on ! " said Sonsie.
" I could fancy that other white angels are watching behind
yon fleecy veil, to get a look at mine. Ah! I wonder if poor
Bax can see her. He's up there somewhere's, and my little
sister Malley, and my handsome father, - they're -all there,
sure and certain, though no masses were iver said for their
souls, and their poor bodies went to rest in unconsecrated
ground."
"Sonsie !" exclaimed Filer, "are you a Catholic ? "
" The O'Rourkes is, ma'am, and the Eagans. I can't justly
be said to be, because there was no money for me confirmation
frock, and we bein' too poor to pay church dues after we come
to Roaring River, Father O'Gorman didn't take the' trouble to
hunt us up, and saving the time he interfered to prevent little
Briefne from gettin' the good home wid Mrs. Blair, -bad luck
to him, -he just left us alone entirely ; and so I am .a kind of
outsider. He says I'll go straight to hell, if I don't come to
confession, and take Holy Communion, and die at the end in the
bosom of the Church ; but Christ is merciful, and -if I'm likely
to get left out of heaven on account of not tellin' him what I
know, why, the blessed Mary, she'll intercede, I'm sure."
" Do 'you pray to the Virgin?" inquired Filer, severely.
"Sometimes, ma'am. The ayes slip' easily off. my tongue,.
because it is hard to forget what' the good mammy teaches

'I-,

t+F7) t
ti ty
L
,t  5
r.
11x.
i


"BLESSED IS THE BRIDE."

"BLESSED IS THE BRIDE."

at her knee. 'Twill not harm me if I do ; will it, M
Growing?
The pastor smiled.
" Wasted breath, Sonsie," said he. " Christ bids us come to
him; he nowhere directs us to pray to his mother. If it had
been wise or expedient for us to do so, he would surely have
told us. He neglected several excellent opportunities: for in-
stance, when they came and said to him, 'Behold, thy mother
standeth without, desiring to speak to thee,' he replied 'Who
is my mother ?' and stretching. forth -his hand to his disciples,
exclaimed, 'Behold my mother and my brethren.' If he had
intended that Mary should be. exalted or adored, surly he
would' have made them understand his wishes then ; but oh the
-.a                --                          h
contrary, we are not informed that he complied with her request
to see him. And again, at the marriage in Cana, when his
mother told him they had no wine, he replied, ' Woman, what
have I to do with thee ?' And the idea of Mary's intercession
is unprofitable, because it removes our dear, tender, loving
Christ afar from us ; makes him seem a hard master, unwilling
to listen to our cries for the help and mercy he died to give us.
He who is all sweetness and compassion, he says, 'Come
unto me, Iwill give you rest' ; and he always means what he
says.'"
"I do pray to him!" exclaimed Sonsie, with glistening eyes;
"I love him !"
Pretty soon the pair came slowly riding up the hill, holding
sweet converse. Otho took care to keep his bride's attention
with pleasant topics, so that the %trangeness of her .position
should not press upon her heat ; and her face was smiling, nay,.
radiant, when they drew rein among their friends, and Thomas
came and, led away the horses after she had been qietl lifted
into her bridegroom's arms. Sonsie observed the sparkling

gems she wore, but she did not know that they had beensent
from beyond the sea "for Otho's wife."  She observed, also,
the loveliness of her "white angel," in her quaint attire,. and the
pansy-wreath which bound her shining hair, and the cluster at
her throat, and the blossoms, rare, velvet, odorous, which she
carried in her hand, as she knelt before the altar. Mr. Grow-
ing's earnest prayer and tender benediction were passing sweet.
Chris had got Otho's ring upon her finger, his husbandekiss
upon her lips, and they walked down toward the great .mansion.
The pair paused by common impulse.when they reached the
little summer-house, and proud Otho took his wife in his ars,.
and promised to himself to be good to her ; and ,hisidea of
goodness was exceedingly comprehensive.,  He thorugily
knew the ins and outs of the sort of man he had got ,to fight;
and if we live, dear reader, we will follow out his married ac-
tions, and be our own judges as to how far he kept his word.
The dear old Professor came softly to his new daughter, and
she threw herself upon his breast. She remembered how she
had nestled to his heart in her deep sorrow, and found comfort
in his fatherly kindness.
" Papa! papa!" said she.
His ears drank in the musical accents. They came from
her inmost soul, and when she slid down upon her knees at his
feet, her husband knelt also and received a share in the pater-
nal blessing. Deb was watching for her beloved child when
she came down and hoveredaround, longing to take her to her.
fond old heart, and have a.little cry over her; and pretty soon
she got her desire, for Chris turned and saw her eyes, s wist-
ful, and she put her two arms around her neck, and got a
good mother's prayer, in which the living Chris and the dead
Bessie were all commingled.
Sonsie's face was a study; such deep, lustrous eyes ! such

A88

489

}t
i    . 4
1    'ry
i    ''
F
(
4'
i  : .
t
1,
i
)   "6 i
5
t
% j
h #
{{
S t.


490           "BLESSED IS THE BRIDE."
smiles!  I almost think that if Jan had asked her then and
there to be his wife, he might have surprised her into an an-
swer which would have satisfied him, but he did not know it,
though he watched and wished for her all the while ; and as for
her, he was not in all her thoughts, which were fluttering about
her "white angel," caressing her, wondering at her, rejoicing in
her, and so expansive was her rich delight, that Mr. Otho also
grew glorious in its radiance, and she began to see him worthy
of his bride.
They were quite a party at the. cars. Uncle Alec, George
Blair and his duck, and the pair, all going to Mexico together.
And Sonsie saw Christabel's happy face smiling at her, and got
the kiss she threw back as the train puffed slowly round the
bend, and they caught the shout of " adieu," George sent to them,
and Pigeon's little piping echo.; and then Sabrina Bradshaw,
the well-bred, delicate, dainty lady, who was chary of forming
friendships, who had said that Sonsie Eagan was but a servant
in the serving-class, who' could not possibly be her equal or
companion, -Sabrina, the queenly, who had been standing
with her arm around this girl's waist, and had been sobbing on
her shoulder, put up her mouth and kissed the burning, damask
cheek, and sought sympathy for their common loss in the great
violet eyes, whose lustre was 'veiled beneath their unshed tears.
"Cone, now, friend," said she, "let you and I go home."
And the Irish lassie knew all the deep value of the earnest
words, and was exceeding grateful aid well-pleased " across
her gulf."
"Yes, Miss Bradshaw, it is indeed time ; we've naught more
to keep us here, and I must say you good-by."
She picked up Rainbow, whomr his departing mistress had
consigned to her new housekeeper, and derfriendiFe'with
many fond kisses, and buried her wet face in his soft fur-.

"BLESSED IS THE BRIDE."

491

" My 'white angel' is married, for sure, but she is an angel
still," said she.
Mrs. Vedder's creams were waiting, as well as Sabrina's
ponies.
"Come, my daughter," said the fairy lady, patting the
cushions by her side, " come home now. I have much need of
you !
"Oli, no," interfered Sabrina, " she is my guest to-night, be-
cause I need her, and also because we must rise and journey
betimes on the morrow."
" It seems expedient that Sonsie should sleep to-night be-
neath my roof," said the new housekeeper, with fussy, laughing
dignity.
Captain Slocum had his cow-ponies ready for Dulcet, and he
remarked,
"Now, my wife and me, we kinder reckon she ought to tale
a look at our seven golden -"
"Yes, certainly," put in. Dulcet, laying an impressive hand
upon her husband's arm; "our seven beautiful,- precious
children."
" Massy me," grumbled old Miss Petingill, who had somehow
got wind of the private wedding, and had posted down to the
cars to examine the party, " what a fuss them people air a
akin' over that poor Irish critter ; enough to turn her silly
head ! Law ! how folks can !"
Sonsie, who had been turning from one to another, much
amused and also a little softened, said, with fervid feeling,-
" How good you all are tome ! I'll try to be worthy of
the kind, respecting feelin's you show me. Oh, yes, I will, in-
deed.- Ye make n str11g. But there's A  ick  dy beyn4
who needs comfort, and I' be after gohr' totMs. Nkson  
ye please, and e glad if I am able = pheer up her sinking


492       «"BLESSED IS THE BRIDE."

. heart a bit, with some lively, pleasant tales about the pretty
marriage, -- like a book-story, - of the precious lady she loves
and could$not see. Ah, wisha, I'll never forget this bonnie
day ! "
" But, Sonsie," said Jan, after the Slocams, Bradshaws,-and
the rest had left her to him and his mother, "I think a dutiful
daughter's first thought should be for her parents, and I know
for sure that you have not beep home yet. Of course you are
my mother's by adoption ; she insists upon that ; but there's
the Eagan family who have claims upon your attention."
"You speak truly,'sir," answered Sonsie, trying to fathom
his excessive anxiety for performance of her duties. "You say
the echo of my very purpose. I'm goin' to kiss me mammy,
when fust I've put this bokay, that has the pressure of Miss
Chris's putty lips upon it, above me poor father's heart,
because he loves her, I'm sure, in the heaven, where he's
dwelli'."
 "Very well, my dear child, quite right; akid as full of poetry
as you always are. Jump up, and I'll drive you," said Mrs.
Vedder, well pleased.
Again Jan interfered.
"No,dearest mamma; you shall not spoil Ollam Folda;
she needs a good walk. There is no horse-flesh for her use at
present. I am about to conduct her to the up-pasture farm,
and ehibitnour Irish stock, which,
,wihyou know, mamma, is of the
choicest."
The fairy lady laughed, and clapped her jewelled hands.
"Oh, my Jan is a rare boy!" said she.
ks moter mine! and so we will bid you a good-by,
because our 'hour are  unted, and we have much to accom-
pliish ry  ust drive thecregms yourself, and I shall deposit
this grl safely in the maternal arms."

" Come, sir," said Sonsie, briskly ; "-as you say I need a
little step ; and I'll try if ye're able to hold the old pace still."
As they turned down the pleasant road, which was nearly
a lane, walled in by mossy rocks, they met Mrs. Hitchcock,
and the charniing Adeliza Euphemia.
"Law, ma !" said the young lady, with the spite engendered
by seeing Sonsie among the gentlefolks at the station, and the
friendly terms they put her, on. " Law ! if there isn't that
gutter-snipe again, and dressed up to fits, I do declare 1"
For a moment Sonsie had a mind to turn back and leave
Jan; and she felt as if she must be out of place, since he was
subjected to such insults in her company ; and, if ever she had
wavered in her fixed purpose, this would'have made 'her firm
as iron; but Jan took the affair easily out of her hands.
"You are unlearned in ornithology, I perceive, ladies, else
you would know that this is a rare specimen of paradise bird.
Permit me to present you to my mother's adopted daughter !"
"Why, Mr. Vedder ! you don't say so !" exclaimed the
maternal Hitchcock, who had long and ardently desired to put
the dweller at Brookedge on her visiting list. . "Do come.,
right along and see us, and bring yourparent."
"Yes ! pretty creatur, ain't she ! Mrs. Vedder's adopted!
Well, I declare !  Adeliza Euphemy, you must. be intimate
with her."
As soon as the ladies had sailed out of hearing, Sonsie
flamed up.
"Mr. Jan, you'd no right to say that,". said she; "and it is
false, sir !"
"Yes, I had. a perfect right; you know my mother always
calls you daughter.. I heard her, to-day, and you. can't help
yourself. She can adopt you if she pleases, and make you her
heir, also, if'it comes to that."

" BLESSED IS THE BRIDE."        493


"BLESSED IS THE BRIDE."       49,

Sonsie was absolutely breathless, very nearly frightened, he
put it so much as a finished thing,--a matter of course,.-
and she made haste to assert herself.
"You'll have to drop that kind of 'talk, Mr. Vedder, or you
will force me to take leave of you once for all. I am Sonsie
Eagan, and you know it; and I count it real unkind of you too,
when I can't go back on my word to Miss Chris, and am forced
to be a debtor to your mother for a season. But I'll get me
independence again, sooner nor ye think; and, as for that
young woman, with her tallow face and her corkscrew curls,
she is far wiser nor you are ; and she speaks but as the world
speaks."
Jan saw that he was on dangerous ground, and made haste
to change the subject, and talk about the up-pastre farm, and
to enlarge upon the manifold virtues of his new tenant.
"Oh, dear, how purty 1" exclaimed Sonsie, who gladly fol-'
lowed his lead, and gave herself up to hearty enjoyment of her
walk. They paused in sight of the old stone house, railed in
with its trim garden; its great hop-yards, vast barns, and
latticed corn-cribs, and the green croft, where turkeys, ducks,
Spanish fowls, and quacking geese were enjoying themselves
in luxurious plenty, and ever so many motherly hens were
calling their broods together, and handsome, sleek cows were
waiting to" be milked, and a couple of heavy farm horses were
drinking at the great trough, through which flowed a running
spring, limpid, and clear and some half-grown colts rubbed
about the hay-ricks, and the tall well-sweep poised in full view
the dripping, mossy old bucket. "How purty! purty!".
"Couldn't you as easily 'say pretty ?" asked- Jan, soberly,
who -cunning fellow   sometimes used his superior English
as. a power to help keep the wilful lassie in order, especially
after he had made a, mis-step, as to-day, and knew thiat he had

lost groutr d and saw and felt that she was thinking over her
position and his, and weighing every thing, "across her gulf."
" Pretty,-sir," said she, easily. " Thanks ! and all the asturs
and hollyhorks, and stercions, and those ; they're pretty, too."
A tall, well-knit, active boy came through thegate with a
hoe on his shoulder, followed by a stout laborer, to whom he
was giving directions for clearing the green corn. His hair
was red as hair could be, and his eyes as blue as Sonsie's, and
his face clean and fresh and wholesome, and though his teeth
still projected, they were white and clean.
"0 Mr. Vedder, sir !". he exclaimed, in glad tones. "Come
and see me colts !" Then, observing the young lady in black,
who was transfixed with astonishment, he pulled off his straw
hat, and grinned; and Sonsie Eagan dashed through the gate,
and hugged her beloved brother, the partner of her early trials,
the idol of her inmost soul.
"Dennie, my blessed, darlin' ! you are workin' on the up-
-pasture farm for Mr. Vedder, and you never told me a word.
Dear, dear Dennie ! and you're so grown !"
"No, .faith, mavourneen ; 'ti meself that I'm workin' for,
sure," replied he; "I'm  me own man. And look, Sister
Sonsie, at the height I've got! as gret as his own; and he's me
model of a man intirely."
"Yes, Ollam Folda," answered Jan, observing the pair with
pleasure. "This young Irishman is his own master ; and it is
a widow's home that I have made of the place. You know it
was yourself who proposed the enterprise to me; and I hope
you will approve of my first widow. There she. stands! She
employs this mirthful youngster.- who, I must say, develops
remarkable capacities for. work, as well .as blarney - as
steward."
Sonsie's violet eyes caught a glimpse of her mother, hasten-

4  (r'
t' I
it
i
t
k' a
r
a i' _
c
li a
f
,P
at  1
eta
It:

A9A4

"BLE,    IS THE BRIDE."


FRIPON THE JOC4{EY.        497

"BLESSED IS THE BRIDE."

ing to meet her. The quick sight of mother-love had espied'
her much wishedifor child, whose helpfulness and bravery had
kept her alive in her deep troubles, and she yearned to get a
good kiss from her ripe lips; and as Jan stood back and
watched- the meeting, he was reminded of the Celt's descrip-
tion, " Eyes as blue as the flax-flower, and smile like a gleam
of God's blessing;" and he thought it still 'applied to the
comely woman, to whom comfort was ;bringing back the bloom
of her youth. She was very nicely dressed. in dark stuff, and
had on a silk apron, and her fair hair, still abundant, was
smooth and glossy. The gentle blood of the O'Rouke's was
very imanifest m her quiet bearing; an; Sonsie's face was glad
and happy.
"Is not this farm, yours, Mrs. Eagan ?" asked Jan. "Your
daughter is an infidel !
"Yes, indeed, my darling, The holy saints have raised us,
up kind friends, and this young gentleman is-the best of them
all.. , The lease of this beautiful home is ours; and I am more
thankful nor I can tell."
"Ah, Sonsie! 'tis jolly to be  farmer. I mean to be a rich
one. Mr.. Bradshaw says I may, and I'll work for it. Yes,
indeed, I mean to be somebody. This is better than boot-
black -'Shine your boots, sir ? union shine1' _-no more of
that, dear, and no more street-sweeping, nor starvin' either.
You, who are a real lady already,. shall not blush for your
kindred. We'll school the. little ones, and we'll keep the
mother nice. (Isn't she fresh as a rose, mavourneen?  I've
the chance now that you and me- used to talk of in the long
nights when we couldn't sleep for starving wid the cold; and
you may just stand by till I show you what a brave boy can
make of hisself."
Sonsie -gave, him another bug. She was crying, and her

cheeks were wet, and red as the crimson carnation; but she
didn't care. She flew to the children, and caught them up and
ueezed them; and how her blithe tongue did run ! and how
ichl she twirled her "r's!" and what a queer mingling of
ssia and Burns there was in the whole family, - Mickie,
and Mistie, and Kate, and Briefne, the wonderful baby.
Jan' enjoyed himself hugely, and they had a famous supper
to ether, and he talked up the Irish stock with Dennis i and
then they all went and examined the Kerry cows, and the
Kyloes, and the Ayrshires; and Sonsie found. her little, blayk
pig in a nice tidy pen of his own, munching yellow corn ; and
he knew her, and came to have his back scratched with a stick,
and grunted out his satisfaction.
Poor Jan tried half a dozen times to make an opportunity
to get the honest girl he loved to himself, and ask her the
momentous question, but couldn't see it just come right; and
so he left her, as he ,had promised, in the maternal arms, and
returned to think about her, at Brookedge.
CHAPTER XLVIII.
FRIPON THE JOCKEY.
HE Rev. Fred Growing was quite aware of the move-
ment which was crawling toward his removal from his
field of labor, but he would not help it with a finger,
or notice it in any way. The paper being tolerably covered with
names, and much drumming not adding more to their number,
the committee waited upon the pastor, to call his attention to
it, expecting to overwhelm him with consternation. They

+

t
d
#;
f
,

49d6


FRIPON THE JOCKEY.

found him in the clerical apartment -of the new church, where
he was fond of sitting, perfect quiet being insured to him in
this his sanctum, no wife nor babies having the entree, to up.
set his meditations. Opposite the arm-chair he occupied in
the great window, sat, in a duplicate chaise-de-ehne, a gentle.
man, whom he introduced as " My friend Laprise." The two
were talking earnestly, and as it seemed enjoyingly, for both
were smiling, and looked alive.
The ease, cordiality, nay, absolute friendliness, of his recep.
tion, made it difficult for the visitors to open their rather un-
pleasant business, and Deacon Proddy nudged Deacon Wil-
liams, and Deacon Williams made faces at Esq. Hitchcock,
who stroked his Saturday-night beard, and tilted his chair onto
its hind legs, and kept silence. Mr. Nickson took the mat-
ter into his own hands, as he was very fond of doing, and
tramped straight down to the point, regardless- of polite forms
or amiable conventionalities. He had been drinking, and his
tongue was limber, and his eyes rather bloodshot ; but he was
still far from the state of mind which frequently impelled him
to press the inquiry concerning'the identity of his papa-in-law
with the love-sick Montague. -
"Got a little business with you, friend Growing. Perhaps
we had better see you alone."
"No occasion for that, I igiagine, sir. My friend Laprise
is a very old friend, tried and weighed, and knows my affairs
quite well."-
Mr. Nickson treated Mr. Laprise to a stare. He had no
idea of such friendship, and there was something in the gentle-
man's face which affected him unpleasantly, and he experien-
ced a sort of resentment at his interfering presence.
"Don't go, Ernest, I insist. We won't be long. -These
gentlemen are all men of renowned capacity for dispatch of

affairs, and understand the value of time. I cannot permit
you to leave me till we have settled our 'planes of being' argu-
ment. It has got to be comprehensively talked up before I
can rest -ins quiet, and I have you so nearly cornered that I
long to"go in andfnish you. Now, then, i am quite at your
service, gentlemen."
" Oh, well, if you don't care, Idon't know why we should.
We have been appointed to wait on you, and inform yon that
the people are of opinion that your usefulness is about used
up here. ,Preaching don't suit. You don't study enough. I
mysef am obliged to-read up a couple of sermons a week; for
fodder, from Sunday to Sunday. You don't visit enough.
They say they don't see nothing of you. You haven't got- any
tact -don't notice the children, and such things, and-you don't
live within your salary."
'That is certainly true," remarked Mr. Growing, pleasantly,
"inasmuch as I have been living without it for the past six
months, thanks to the dilatoriness of my financial committee,
of whom Mr. Nickson-is one."
"Well, you can't form any idea' how difficult it is to raise
money for you. You see you are so confounded unpopular,
the folks get baulky right off. We got the sense of the con-
gregation before we came, as this document will show," unfold-
ing a long paper, as he spoke. e -know just what- horses
'll run."
The young pastor took it, ran his eye down the page, and
smiled, though there were some names there he had not expected
to see - Dr. Jenkins's, for instance. He observed -that it was a
MilIville document. No Roaring River people, except a few
of Jan Vedder's tenants, and a new man who had set up a
fulling mill down below, almost over the border into Pleasant
Valley, andmany of the signers were perfect strangers=to him.

A98!

499

FRIPQN THE 7OCZ(E Y.


500            FRIPON THE OCArE ."

FRIPON THE JDCKE Y.         5071

It looked as though they had been out into the highways and
hedges, and compelled them to come in.
"Gentlemen," said Mr. Growing, placing very quie'q y the
listn the table, and laying his hand over it, "if I cse to
remain, I cpuld do it, in spite of you... This paper i purely
sectional. Not only could I stay, but I could force you to ac-
cept me as your pastor, or, secede altogether, divide the con.
gegation, take .the IRoaring River side for rny own, and this
begtiful church, which I have livedto;see completed, I
know precisely where I stand. -I am. not taken by surprise.
I have been aware from the first of this movement, and could
tell you who have egged it on. Don't be uneasy, gentlemen; I
am no promoter of schism. You, Deacon, Williams, and Esq.
Hitchcock, have stood shoulder to shoulder with me on the
building committee, and I owe you thanks. You have
contributed generously, and worked bravely and well. But
the field is the world.. I shall never forget my first parish. I
have gained a large experience among you; have been taught
many useful things. If God spares my life, I can work better
for my stay here. You. took me, a boy, and you have borne
all my blunders and mistakes, and. I go, out a man, and I thank
you."
Deacon Williams got up,and took hold of the young minis-
ter's hand. He had come    e meeting, wife-driven, most un-
willingly. The memory o   is dead 'boy was clinging about
him. The sick-room days, so rich in blessing to.them all,
binding their souls with the three-fold cord which cannot be
broken, were full of the prayers and holy ministry of this slight
dreaming, hard-working enthusiast, whom they were forcing
him to conspire gainss, and weak and faint-spirited as he was,
the poor, weazened, Deaconfelt, c9nstrained to lift his voi e in
feeble protestation.

" We love you, Mr. Growing. For my part, I want you to
stay, though my name is down on that pap,0  As you may
s, in a manner, I didn't ought to put it there, and e'na
ho ed I could scratch it off afore you seenit. You=seem as
to meas if you was my own boy. You do, really. I do
know of no mistakes. I never see you make noblunders. I
believe the speerit of the Lord is upon you, as much as ever
it was on young Sam'el in the temple. I shan't get no minis-
ter that will ever be the same to me as you are. My dear,
dear boy. I somehow feel as if I wasn't going, to stop long,
and I wlod like to hey you by my.bedside when the dread
summons comes. I don't care so much about preaching , but 1
do think your is drefful siritooal, and your prayers air worth
all the sermons in the world."
The Deacon shook Fred's hand up and down, while 'his
watery eyes were fixed'upon the young man's working face,
and his voice trembled, broke down in fact, before he pulled
out his handkerchief, and mopped his cheeks, and went and
sat down in a corner, comforting himself with the couplet"
which seemed to be an unfailing bah in the most distressful
circumstances.
"Yesyes"-
We are a pil    We're a stranger-
.We ec an  b      '
"Mebby, after all," began T eacon Proddy, who was much
affected, and blew his nose like the blowing up of the trumpet
in the new moon.
"Jes so. I think so myself," said Deacon McCrbss. "In
'afeard we've been drefful hasty."
Mr. :Nickson and Esq. Hitchcock, being entirely Co,  ed
to (  Rev. Dr. Perfect, and determined to get i     r.
Gro          alarmed at the turn affairs weretaking.


502     FRIPON7CEY.PON THE CKEY.

Soft as squash,", said the banker, aside tohis coadjutor, "to
e bamboozled,. te that I I wonder how tha preacher feller
could not in the least understand the magnetism of per.
sincerity, honest singleness of heart, and absolute. sympa-
which the pastor carried about with him like an atnos-
phere, which took him out of himself into the inmost souls of
his hearers. So great was his power, joined to a peculiar voice
of marvellous depth and sweetness, speaking irresistibly to the
emotional nature, that Iremember, on one occasion, a brother
minister of his' told me he was affected to tears by hearing him
offer a prayer at a funeral, though he was too far off to catch
the words of the petition. Of a truth,.a coarse-fibred person
like the jockey banker could not be touched by any such in-
fluences; and he uttered some angry, abusive, personal words
in enforcing the necessity of a change in, the pastorate, which
no gentleman could have spoken, which were a trifle horsey
and underbred, if not actually profane for a Christian hero.
Mr. Growing's eye kindled, but he kept his temper, and
calmly waited for the supply of billingsgate to exhaust itself, or
for the speaker's breath to give out. Not so his friend Laprise.
He took up the conversation, nd addressed Mr. Nickson in a
cutting, sarcastic tone, wa g_ the "mebbys" and "Jes
so's " of the uneasy Deaco     he fixed his piercing eyes
upon the banker'slumpy    .
"Did it ever strike you, sir, howeoddly things come about?
My chum Fred, here, floored you once, and now, at this junc-
ture, you are doing your best to unseat him. Now,! Jackey
FL  nwe are all friends here and it is. a good while ago.
did my Polly lose the three-niile race fairly?"
do you mean, sir," said the banker, rising h  ly.
" the -ahem! doyouimean.by such=tal  '

"Ernest, I wouldn't, if I were you. Let the dead past bury
its deacd' But while he patted his friend's hand, Fred smiled
into his eyes with the same genial, fond look he had used to
wear when the two were boys together.
" You need not interfere, Fred, my lad," returned Laprise,
" Just you keep quiet.' I'm going to do a little talking now.
Sit down, gentlemen. Let us consider this minister-business
settled. It was as good as arranged, I think, before you came
in. Frederick Rutter Growing won't have to hunt for work to
do. Rest is what he needs just. now.. You have nearly used
him up here ; worked him like a cart-horse. He has been
spinning along, steam up, top speed, no brakes on, and I'll en-
gage none of you have ever said 'rest' to him. He's got to
take care of that fine-strung body of his, or he won't stay to
enjoy many more such pleasant committee interviews. Cali-
fornia will about fit his case for a summer trip. Come, Dea-
con Proddy, don't let brother Nickson hurry you off. I'm go
ing to tell a story. You- love good stories, -I know by your
double chin. You see this minister, who has been dispensing
the word to you, was a college chum of mine. We hung to-
gether upon the breast of our Alma Mater. I am afraid- we
were rather wild fellows. Fred thinks so now. We found
plenty of scrapes and larks and fun, upon which to expend
our surplus vitality. The vineyard was not open to us then,
or, if it was, we did not know it. My dear .Fred's pastorate
among you has not improved his muscle, but in- those jolly
days he could pull stroke-oar, and make the best time in the
class ; and as for base-ball, quoits, billiards, tenpins nothing
could touch him, an when he put on the gloves, it waytime
for his man to     his elbows." 'Mr. Laprise threw up his.
fist in a sci utic way, which showed off his massive agate
sleeve-buttrnsand-also fully demonstrated that ke hadnotfor-

FRIPON THE HOCKEY.         503


,504         FRIPON THE 7OCKE Y.

gotten his youthful lessons in the manly art of self-defence,
whatever his reverend friend might have done. " Our class
got perfectly mad on the subject of horses ; and those of us
who could afford it kept our fast trotters. Nay, Jackey Fripon,
I insist. Positively, I shall take it ill of you to leave me in
the lurch, before I have spun out my tale. Well, gentlemen,
we got up a race -the best three in five, under the saddle
over at Dodd's Four Corners. We had to do it all on the sly,
and you may be sure we did not call each other any long
names in our meetings. -But though we wickedly disobeyed
college rules, we made it up in -royal lessons - did we not,
Fred ? and in all the tight places we stood by each. other in
those days, and we do still. By Jupiter, don't we, old boy?"
To the intense astonishment of the Deacons, the chums
reached over and grasped each other's hands, with glistening
eyes.
"I got hold of a fellow for my trainer and, jockey, and I
thought myself lucky. I believe he' hailed from Canada -
half French - I know he was half horse, a capital rider,
faithful to my mare Polly. I tell you, she shone like a piece
of satin, and I made sure of winning. Jackey Fripon said it
was a done thing, though I must say Jackey 'promised like a
hogmy, and performed like a pigmy.' The bets were heavy,
much heavier than we would have liked to tell our governors,
or write home about. I had spent no end of money that term,
and I looked to pay up out of 'my winnings, but when it came
to the last heat, golly broke d, ran mad, went lame, dashed
over the rail amongst the people, and kicked up a shocking
mess; and I lost, and my father was a kind old trump, I
made a clean breast of my follies, and he paid' my debts, and
that ended my betting forever. but, as I was sang, Fred,
here, who' had been watchingthe horses, eager for me to win,

shouted in everybodys ears that the jockey did it by a trick
and blazed up, and told him he was a ''scoundrelly, cheatin
puppy,' and deserved 'hose-whipping, and was all ready to
kick him out neck and heels, in 'his 'hot indignatioini  Fred
Rutter never could beiarny trickery. Jockey Fripon was in-
solent; showed his fists, talked filth, knockedoff Fred's new
beaver, and this pastor of yours 'went in and olished off
Jackey handsomely. You 'ought to have seen the battle, Dea-
con Proddy! how he yunished'him'! It was the neatest thing
you ever witnessed ! and:I see poor Fripon sports a couple of
false teeth, to supply a vacancy which occurred that evening
after the race at Dodd's Four Corners:"
His explaining finger pointed'the moral, and of course all
eyes rested upon the banker. The good deacons were quite
excited with the racy story, which had about it a strong, smack-
ing relish, and flavor of plucky- youth; and their tongues got
extremely limber over their own exploits, and the fights and
frolics they 'had known in their "juicy period," and they
laughed, one and all, when they contemplated the unfortunate
jockey, overthrown and discomfited.
SI'm 'a selfmade niah," he'growled.  'I never said but
what I was. What do you want to come and tell on me here for,
where I'm leading  r respectable life, trying to be useful? I
call it dog-gone n an, mself! "'aifft no harm to ride a horse,
I 'spose, is it?"
"No, good Srigon, nor to be a jockey, provided you are
an honest one.  t n6Won e forlt, tll ne, as anan of
honor and a Christin banker .and I pledge you my word,
that if you will speak the truth I'll drop the subject forever
did my PollYlase h t th eie r race fairlyE" _
t"oei; yoh Big   Erise,"   whateveryour nare is,
don't you"ba blasted foW' You stood    y 'and seen the
43A

FIIPON TIl  .7OCK Y.          05


r

506

FRIPON TIE yOCXE Y.

whole on't. I want to blame for your mare breaking up, no
more than I am for your reeling off such a lot of d--d
nonsense just now in our business meeting.".
" Look here, Fripon ; you are are rightly named. Look
here !"  He-took a darning-needle from his pocket-book, and
held it up before the' banker. " Tom Knox gave me that ! I
saw him pull it out of Polly's shoulder, and I've kept it ever
since, and - hold on, Fripon !-- I've a couple of witnesses I
can produce any time, besides your particular friend Tom
(whose oath might not be good for much), who will swear how
it got there."
Mr. Nickson looked like a whipped dog. He caught up his
hat and slunk away, and none of them moved a finger to stay
him.
Deacon Williams, as may be supposed, was not especially
delighted with the relation of these jockey experiences of, his
son-in-law, and he went over the affair in .his wife's hearing,
when he reached home, with a most disgusted countenance,
which changed into pitiful sorrow when he thought of his'
dear daughter.
"Well, what of it ?" was the reply his spouse gave him,
when he had finished. "Nickson has got apast all that are
now; he's made his money. -I ain't .goin' to trouble myself to
go pryin' and peekin' round, to nose out what he used to was.
I don't make no account of the thimble-rig you played along
with the. drivers, when you was a young feller, though'they do
say you got your start, out o'that and old sledge, two cents a
game, when you kep' the. toll-gate down to ' The Devil's Half
Acre."'        '
" I have repented of those deeds long since, Miss Williams,
in dust and ashes, as you .may say, in-a manner, and I've done
my best to make it up too," replied the Deacon, with some

FRIPON THE 7OCKE Y.

507

dignity ; "and I'll right other wrongs before it is too late, if
God spares my miserable life. . Of course, 'tisn't any use say-
ing anything about this man. You've gone and married my
poor girl to him. I hope he treats her well. She seems to be
ruther 'fraid of' him a'ready."
"Nonsense, Deacon ! don't you be gettin' up bugbears, and
fightin' of 'em.., Mary Ann has got a rich husband, a hand-
some house, and the best horses in Millville, and I should-
really admire to know what she could ask for more ! Don't
be a fool, I beg on ye, no more than ye can help. Why can't
ye keep yer boots still on the rug there, and not be all the
while prancin' round, wearin' out the carpet ?"  The kind,
weak, anxious. father was silenced, but not satisfied, and he
put on his.hat, and went up to visit his daughter, and he looked
at her, trying to believe she was not unhappy. She had Nancy
and Tip with her, and was teaching them the game of authors,
and the Deacon was coaxed to join them, half-afraid, half-
ashamed of the novel ide of contributing to the pleasures ,of
his children, by assisting at a forbidden game ; and then he
wound up with a quiet, comfortable talk with this growing
young Christian, who demonstrated every day the power of
Jesus' love to strengthen, refine, and round the character; and
he went home revolving in his mind certain obligations which
he had lately become convinced devolved upon him, and with
which his grasping love of money was constantly interfering.
He was about to make restitution where he had -il
frauded, and was thinking up the cases he could remnem
noting them carefally:down.
The very first thing he did in- the Gonecusset=office, on the
Monday following, was to take his will from the safe; button it
into his pocket, looking through the glass door as he turned
the key, and making quite.sure nobody saw}him. But he did


FRED, GROWINQS FAkE WELL.       509

not consult Esquire Hitchcock this time. He went over to
'Itoptown, to Judge Sistaire, that lawyer of large reputation for
honesty and firm will-making, no loop-holes ever being found
in his legal decuments!"no flaws in his leases.
"She shall have it jest to suit her,'rpoor dear. I hope she
wil lit-fa e"a  at'niif years, after lrn dead and gone, to enjoy
it, and I kiio*she'll 'dd a heap=of  good with it too ; and to
think that Bax should have begged her to speak tome -my
son, who didn't dare to ask his own father for what he wanted.
Well, well, we' ae a pilgrim and a stranger,'all of us, as you
may say. I shallgo to' him. He car' come back to me. I
e'enanost wish I could live it' over, so'st to try and fix 'up the
rotten spots, and wipe" out 'the stains' but blessed be God!
there's a fountain 'filled'with 'blood. Let us be up and doing,
and work while the day lasts, for the night cometh, when no
man can work, and 'there is no speechnor device in the grave,
to which we are' all hasteniig."
CHAPTER XLIX.
FRED GROWING'S FAREWELL.
RE new' church was full the next morning after the
dointitte mraeeting and Mr. Growing preached a
splendid discourse. His friend Ernest Laprise, and a
br tler woker'frofrk Canadasse who had-slipped quietly in to
listen, exch- ged entqptlatory g1anes, and a perfect hush of
attentioan ptvadd theassenily  The choir then'sang one
fthe young patosfaorite' hynlins-

"Whatare the in bright array,
This innumerable throng,
Roind the altar night nd day
Hying Ooe sriumphant4ozg?"
His selections were always from the devotional poetryning.
ling pathos and piety, lifting the.soul  wings ofgi ly- w rship;
and he intuitively passed .y such as thisonefor instancewhich
Dr. Perfect gave out whe he Yohanged 9ceato the, pulpit
of the old stone church, " Melchisedek, theg  hgHpri4st,"
which they sung to "Mear," and cut into- riru: fragments,
But then the soul of the reverend. divine was not attuned.te
minstrelsy. He preached sermons an hour, ad a -quarter
long, all about "wrath,", and considered _the services o.the
sanctuary. in which he had no voice -as de tra.nd waste of
time.         '..
I am clearly getting, old ! I must, 1eto pratw.and xamble
thus in my talk. Where was I - oh,, I remember,' Afte the
singing, Mr. Growing shut the hymn-bookh and, lad fitatop: of
the Bible, and leaned ope.rar 3n nit, anlo ofing pleasantly
down upon the upturned faceshe,, said very quietly-
"Will you permit me, dearhearers,, to speaka few words
from this sacred place, as ode friend :talWs Witb:another?.".
A little uneasiness squined in ;asng the paper-signers, and'
a look of expectancy lighted the, faces of the.other listeners.
"It has been told.me that my services are no longer accept.
able amongrny.. people,and. thereasons why,  fullyand distindy
stated. I do not preach wellYenougsh  I dnot !isitsxnneh
as I ought, I haye no tact; and ;more to the.same  Pose
Now, we are all of the onefamily-botnd to9thetsame mansions,
brothers and sisters, and we must waive delicacy ; anid behonest
and true to one another. I, like alolalte expressionsa in such
cases as these -. somethingtangible-- thgtrmaykanow pre
Ago*

FRED-69- Or ' IAIVAG' FA E W .9L-L,


6

510

FRED GROWING'S FAREWELL.

cisely where I stand; therefore, my friends, please do me a per-
sonal favor. All among you who think we have worshipped,
and prayed, and labored together long -enough, and that a
change would be desirable, oblige me by standing up for one
moment."        -
Mrs Williams, exceeding -red in the face, nodded to Mrs.
Esq ."Hitchcotkwho chewed her dried fennel, and shook her
head about, and- sat still. -John Nickson got half-way u , but
as he saw nobody else was, going to rise, he slouched down
again, and fumbled about, pretending to hunt for something he
had not lost. Deacon Proddy pulled his hair up over the bald
place, and 'Deacon McCross murmured "jes so, jes so,"-.-
with his eyes fixed upon the minister, and his underlip hanging,
and Deacon Williams sobbed in his handkerchief. The Roar-
ing Riverites looked indignant and surprised, the paper having
been' sedulously kept from their knowledge; and while the
young'pastor's eagle glance swept the congregation, a dead
stillness fell upon them all.
"What, nmy friends' are there none who will stand up to
their opinions?' That 'is : strange, since so many of you have
been willing to put-your names here.
He lifted the paper in full view of the audience.
"Just give me youi attention one moment,-
He read the-preamble 'and "resolutions, which were personal
and very ,nearly abusive in their tenor,/and the list 'of names
which endorsed 'them.' Some of the men picked up their hats
from under theseats, and threw their bandanas into them;
Mrs. Williams fanned herself'°violently, and looked very hot;
old Miss- Petingill audibly whispered to-Marsha, 'Peculiar!
how folks can,"and some of 'the other sisters wriggled about
and made faces, and sniffed;and wished they were beyond the
reacof the young pastor's eyes, and didn't dare to go Such

FRED GROWING'S FAREWELL.

511

a strange, out-of-the-way method of transacting business sur-
prised and affronted them. They had not expected to be
dragged before the public so ruthlessly.
 "I will detain you but one minute. Please to wait, all of
you, my friends, and hear me out. As this 'is the last time I
shall speak to you, I think, with the worthy people whose names
I have just now read in our hearing, that the time has arrived
when it is expedient for us to part. I have my own opinion
of your mode of procedure in the matter, but I hold no malice.
I am quite ready to go. The noble church I was determined
to see erected is finished, and I congratulate you, my friends,
upon its completion. I congratulate myself every time
it. You and your, children are henceforth permitted to, , Y
the God of your fathers in a commodious, beautiful- sanriua.
I am also ready to resign in favor of the Rev. Dr. Perfect, whom
I know you have engaged to fill this pulpit, even while it is still
mine / I am charged with over-going my salary. If-you wish
your next servant to be useful among you, feed him! pay his
wages as punctually as you pay your other employs ; give
him beef-steak to live on, and he will be able to put heart and
brains and muscle and soul into your work! I love you all,
every one. Many with the love of benevolence a goodly
number with the love of complacency. The children. whom I
have baptized, I: carry in my bosom; they are 'the dear lambs
of my first flock.y I hope the Good Shepherd will call them all
by name, andthey will hear his voice. The t young men and
maidens whom I have joined in matrimony, I keep in .m-nd;
the disciples whom I have welcomed'-to our sweet and holy
communion, I rejoice in. I pray for you all, with all prayer
and supplication, and.I shall not cease to do so when ;I.' have
crossed this consecrated threshold for the last time ; and I ask
you to unite with me in requesting the consQCiatiofl to dissolve


THE .PE4CON'S .WIFE HAS A SURPRISE.

our relations of pastor- and people,:4hat I may be Sat liberty to
consider a unanimous call I have received from the First Con.
gregational Church in Canadasset.  And - Now may the
grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be and abide with you always.
Amen and amen "
CHAPTER. L.
'TiIJDEACON'S WIFE HAS A LITTLE SURPRISE.
HE passing bell -,toll ! toll . toll! -how solemnly it
sounded out upon the quiet air., The echoes in the
hillsides could notcatch the sobbing note ; the grassy
slopes and wooded knolls, where the =white shafts shot straight
up toward heaven, and the paler wild-flowers growing in their
shadow might have felt the tremble. of the vibrating air, for a
grave was' opening among thecoffined dead. The measure of
it was as the stature of a man, and beside it, a rounded mound,
with smooth-cut turf, and fresh blossoms at its. head and foot,
and a little. .pathway,'daily trodden by loving feet, led up to it
from the:dark pond below. Just three hundred and, sixty-five
days :ago, Chrisi and Otho were married-in the little church at
Qraigenfels; .and Ruth:and her giantlocked up the Horseshoe,
and with Pigeon in brave attire; and ;gleeful .humor, bade adieu
to their firsthome; and. Uncle Alec. gladly turned his back
upon Cr'enfels, and the places which had knownhens knew
the     more. The Widow Goldsmith's. grave was geen.
She lay beside poor Fred, but she had no longer any power to
rack, his ears with scolding, or weary hiim with complaints. She
was quiet at last, and little Miss Filer reigned at Brookside in
her stead.  ' ,  '            5 .
Rainbow ranged the woods and the forest-dells at his own

sweet will,:and the fact that a, new.colonyofthis racefrorn Malta
were especial pets with the sma l housekeepertdid not present
his purring by the fireside,or sleeping Pothe,cushions when-
ever he felt _like, it; and 'she alwaysread to him his mistress's
epistles, and she declared that, the old tomratdlistened as
sensibly as folks."
Miss Filer and MrsSlocurnwere choice. friends, and held
long consultations: upo the. judicious training of the 'seven,
who grew daily in stmte andiin race.
The year just gone :had left few fooa-prints; upon Roaring
River, and all,ithings rexnained. pretty much..as.we left them.
Fred Growing  plae was .not filed, though, owingty sdiae
hitch in the arrangements of the Rev. DrPerfect. Setf
were so uncharitableas.to .say, he ;was holding off i.,order-to
get more slary, but:his adrirers:didnot despair; and the co -
gregation held reading eetingandnkeptpthe place open for
his acceptance:
The newnchapel. had .become a church, and.:vwas nrithed
with many beautie which-Jan had pleased himself in collects
ing. The stained window behind the plpit was a:perfect gem;
and the choice , ood .sent fromUncle Alec's forests were mar-
vellous for richness, People sneered t the buisy directoffor
putting so much money into the structureand  called=it .d'
der's Folly; " but Jan. dived according to his own ideas. 'He
wasted not a thought: upon his critics. A' beautiful school-
house was also in proeessj of erectindia the grounds ith a
reading-room attached, and .:prospective coffee-honseatid'Jan
took solid comfort. out of-the happy boys, who felt the ; iOst ju-
bilant pride in their possession; and. the most ecstticgratitud&amp;
to their munificent donor.
.Toll! .toll ! tof itMrs._Deacon Proddy was 'sweeping her
doorstep, and she stopped and leaned on her bro ntocournt
the strokes. '30Oe,.two, three -aJane Blossoi's baby. 'Well,

THE V D "" CQ1 'S--Tfl I R.114S'.44 -S- PRISE.


514    THE DEACON'S WIFE HAS A SURPRISE.
poor little-innocent creatur', better dead than alive, with nothing
but shame and ,sorrow before it. Scarlet fever carries off a
power of younguns; and Jane, she won't stop long behind-.
six, Seven. It can't be her-fifteen!1 likely it's Bessie Make.
peace. I heard she was failing last night. Dr. Jenkins gave'
her up. Consumption is an ugly word, but broken heart is a
worser, and her stepmother may feel it yet, strong as she is.
She's got to: take her turn. Oh, if mothers could only see what
their children has got to-go through, and they a-dying. . I seem
as if they'd fight off death and stop till they'd growed a spell.
To think of the times that poor Bessie's been through. Well,
well,--she'll forget 'em all when she gets up to her dear, sweet
ma -_seventeen, eighteen. Why, it must be Mary Ann NicX.
son: I saw her look like a ghost to ineetin' last night. I told
the. Deacon when we was coming home, that girl wasn't long
for this world.. I declare, if it isn't tolling yet.- Massey me!
got up to sixty, sixty-one, sixty-two. It must be old Miss
Petingill. I haven't heard she was down with any thing, but that
must be about her age. She don't let on, but I know she was
born -same year as Jedidiah,' and he's going on sixty-three.
Green corn, or cucunibers, niebby, or veal. Well, poor soul,
weve all got to go. Bless me, if that don't beat the Dutch.
There's the creatur' comin down the road, as chirk as a gimlet,
when I was just thinkin' probably she was dead. How de do,
Miss Petingill, ain't it desput queer ? I 'heard the bell when it
went sixty-two, and I thought it was tolling for you, but you are.
worth twenty dead cats, ain't you ?"
"Pretty peculiar, I should say. What had sixty-two to do
with me, pray ? you must be sick, to be~ layin' the passin' bell
to me! How folks can!"
Mrs. Proddy was going on to explain that old folks must
look to be dropping off along, as their turns came, when her'-
attention was diverted to John Nickson, who came- down the

THE DEACON'S WIFE HAS A SURPRISE., 515
street with Mr. Plantum, both looking weighed down under a
load of woe.
"Who is dead, Mr. Plantum?" asked she,.
"Deacon WilliamsN ma'am.; services to-morrow. at three ;
best hearse ; black plumes; first-class funeral."
"Deacon Williams ! Why, du tell. What did they think
ailed him?"
" You'd best ask me, if you want to find out, Miss Proddy.
I just come from there," said Miss Petingill sharply, still turn-
ing over the sixty-strokes in her mind. " I've got life enough
left to answer questions yet a while, if you did think I was
dead."
" Law, Miss Petingill, don't be offended. It might have
been you well enough, and 'twill before long, likely. * Come,*
what was it?"
" Ship fever ! I watched last night. He dropped off as
slick as a mitten."
" Well, I - declare, and I never knew he was sick! 'How
drefful sudding !"
- "No more didn't anybody. He only got up from New York in
the four o'clock train yesterday. Of course it was sudden ; it
allus is. He's a beautiful corpse, the wrinkles all smoothed
out, and as peaceful as-a baby. We've just done layin' him
out. Mary Ann, she would stand over- her poor pa every
durin' minute, and she got the last look he give to anybody.
She was his darlin', that's -plain to Asee with half an eye, and
then, she went home sick, and I'm hurryin' down to bring up a
few notions and a bottle of Mother Bailey. I'm going to nuss
her. Good-by."
"Nuss her, Miss Petingill? Why, you don't mean-"
" Yes, I do. Of course you haven't heard how he'd got a
little girl baby, born this morning. I worgler you didn't ask
Mr. Plantum about thrt !"


THE DE4 CON'S -WIFE CHAS A SURPRISE.
Mrs.-De con Williams got over her second funeral occasion
creditably, and as soon as the house was set to rights, she
and Mr. Nickson had the will opened. It was a trial to wait
that long, but they did.. When Esq. Hitchcock got as far as
"I give and bequeath to my wife Silence," she put up her grief.
bordered handkerchief, and heaved a deep sigh; but when she
became aware that she got only the interest of ten thousand dol-
lars, to be forfeited: upon. a second marriage, she vehemently.
stormed.  MrNickson considered it, a. capital joke, and
"gunned, consmedly," but he left off in a hurry when they
reached the codicil. Baxter's portion added to Mary Ann's,
and, in event of her death without heirs, both to go to her kind-
$onfr Ssie Eagand ithherdearlove;
"I Won't have it I I'll break the will," roared the banker.
"Yes, indeed, we'll break the will," said the 'widow; "a
nasty, sneaking, cheating, stingy critter! and this is the end of
all my pinchin' and savin' !"
r. Nickson went home to his elegant mansion, where the
poor, pale, patient young wife lay in a quiet slumber, with her
baby on herarm. Hi   _stvisit was to a brandy-bottle on the
side-board, and his second to the bed-side. He did.not stop
for a glance. at the fallen face, nor fora look at the child, for
which the mother had offered up fervent ha ks before she
slepp Thiswas a crisis for the banker, Racing, dicing, and
Sdrinkinghad "cleaned hiun out,"and he c unted upon ;his wife's
property to-start afresh.5He didhis best to induce the widow
to lan bimthe few hundred. dollars of Frediy.money she had
got, after.                   15 found tt Mary Ann's portion was closely tied
up, and had utterly failed; and as he tipsily contemplated the-
sleepershelt as if he.could murderthem both, such burning
ragepap' disappoignatnt'possessed hi ,
1kkMss Petingifrwas off ggark- having grne down to the
market to select herself the chicken fod)p~er saks "taste of

TIE DEACON'S WIFE HAS A SURPRISE. '        i51
broth," and Mary Ann Was awakened by a rude shake,' and
opened her eyes to see lier husband half-reeling, half-standing
beside her, a cruel devil in his;sensual face, his fists doubled,
and to hear him pour out   t rrent of horrid curses. Shed shrank
away in terrible fright ; she had long ago learned the sequence
of such a beginning; learned it with heavy cause ; and, as she in-
voluntarily clasped closer her helpless baby, he dragged it from
her arms and threw it upon the floor, and beat back the poor
mother when she attempted trise, with hellish laughter and foul
language ; and she soon mercifully lost consciousness of its feeble
wail, and with a brutal finishing blow upon her senseless face, he
staggered across therrooriwand took another heavy Ei
when the nurse returned, she found hjmon the sofadea
with his purple, bloated face hanging over the rail,
mother and child were g ne..
Nothing:more. way heard or seen=of the bankerFin Roaring
River after that night, and the-bank vault was rabbed of all its
deposits, andhe;was:lucy to get off with a whole skin, because
the indignationtof thetown's people rose to such a 'pitch that
his life wouldn't have been worth a rush if they had caught
him.
Untiring searchwas made forMary Ann,and all unavailing
and a month had passed, whenone day, Payson and Tip,:who
were as usual playing hookeyclimbedan cwdapple4ree, close by
the deserted school-house, the firsthome of the Eagans, and
looking down'Tthrough the shattered window they espied some-
thing on the floor, and also a drip, drip,oa f blood under the&amp;atd
tered vld door, ,They ran ofhalf tightened to deathand
stumbled over theitsmether,iwho was hunting her absentdadings'
with a raw hide. They withdrew her attention from their sin
by a fearsome tale of a sight theyhadaseenandidn afeain-
utes, the dlor being burst open, the remainsgfher dat@ter
whom she had taken suchqi ains -ato"mayuichn were lbf.


"
518      PRIDE AND PtyVERTY, AND SONSIE.
her, blackened, decomposed; and ,the little baby, the unfortu.
nate child she had brought into the world, giving it a brief life,
to take it "again, for she, the woful mother, had gone mad, and
laid it down, regardless of its fate and of her own."
CHAPTER LI
PRIDE AND POVERTY, AND SONSIE.
OR a year and moreSonsie Eagan had been a diligent
student at Rosenbloom. The little disagreeables of
her position.soon wore off. She kept firmly to her res-
olution to attend to her business and ignore all taunts and jeers,
and as she had assured Ruth, " Sorra ailing thepupils ever got at
her, it :being impossible to.neglect a girl. who kept.sedulously
apart, wasting no minutes.": Sabrina Bradshaw was kind, con-
siderate, and helpful before Chris's wedding, and after that she
was loving. Peace Pelican was a host in herself,- and she,
espoused Sonsie's interests, at first "out of contrariness" and
love of mischief, slyly contriving to get amusement out of the
Celtic lassie's quaint English and frononcs character, but very
soon from warn liking for the comely, blooming maid, who, as
Professor Noble said, " worked like a cart-horse"
Jan Vedder was seeking a match span of roans for the up-
pasture farm, and announced as much in a brief note to the
Ulsterlassie,-andalse his intentin tQ pay b  little
.ay.her a lite visit.
Sabnna was in Sonsie's room when Sarah came up to an
nounce -his arrival.
'% 'd put on a fresh dress and some new ribbons, if I were
you, Sonsie," said she, suddenly, as she left her. "Mr. Vedder
les his friends to appear w~ell. Peace will wear her new bufT

PRIDE AND POVERTY, AND SONSIE.

519

cambric, I know, and I shall come down in my purple percale ;
and Susie Jenkins has just got a new nansook, with fifteen ruf-
fles on the skirt, beautifully fluted."
Sonsie flushed up, and sat awhile with her eyes fixed on the
great trunk, marked
SONSIE EAGAN,
Roaring River,
which was locked and corded in the corner, and then she got
up, and brushed her merino, and rubbed away at some spots on
the front breadth, and put a few fresh stitches into a darn in the
sleeve, and lamented a little over its general faded appearance,
and wished Jan Vedder would stay away and leaveher;.in
peace.
She passed a delightful evening notwithstanding, and enjoyed
his home news, all particulars of the lives of the inmates of the
up-pasture farm, and about the mission boys, and the letters
he read from Mr. Craigenfels ; and then she brought forth hers
from Ruth and Chris, and talked up their absent friends :to
minute particulars, :and the New York trip, and the. seven
children ; and really she discovered that she had many subjects
in common with the young Dutchman. She was unconsciously
proud of his dashing ways and manly carriage. He sat down
at the study table, and divided his attentions between her and
Sabrina, and -his whimsical applications of the lessons, which
he enriched with many items not laid down in the text.. He
attended her at table, while conversing with Herr Groenveldt
and Professor Noble on church architecture and farming, and
she listened eagerly. When he sang duets, with Sabrina she
came and sat down by the piano, and somehow the .same sense
of outsideness possessed her afresh which she had felt in
watching them up the aisle at Zoe's wedding.
" I've heard you sing, Sonsie, in Mission. School. Suppose


{      PRIDE AND POVERTY AND SONSiE.
you join us now in some of our old hymns. YOu ought to have
heard Dennie come out on 'Marching on,' last Sunday. He
leads the boys now. He has a wonderful. voice."
" Deax Denaie I he's. a brave, good lad," said Sonsie, with
deepening eyes.
"He is indeed a noble, honest fellow, and is making a capi-
tal farmer,'" replied Jan quietly, "and he is fully determined to
be a rich man. The proud young O'Rouke begins to talk
about founding a family. -There is no limit to his ambition;
and with hishealth and vigor he can do anything he likes."
Sabrina could not help curiously regarding this couple, so
oddly drifting towards each other out of thedifferent grades,
and felt"that Seusie looked -as worthy to fill the place as any
lady of them all. Pace Pelican said as much, and added,
A Nature makes-. gentlefolks once in a while, and out brave
Sonsie is one of hers. She can'thelp rising, anymore than the
cream can help coming to the top of the milk "_
Sabrina nodded and smiled.
"Sonsie, dear," said she with a little authority, "come and
sing 'Shamus O'Brien' for Mr. Vedder, and I will company
you.'
The maid rose instantly, and if you wished to get an opinion
upon her singing, Jan was the.man for you. Words certainly
failed to express his delight, and then she played some marches
and quicksteps, agd" some of the prettyareels his ,mother had
playedouposw the occasion of the first tea-drinking, and Jan
could hardly believe hig ears.
" Itseems like magic, Ollam Folda; " how did you manage
to doait so~quickly ?".
Hard work did it, Jan," said Sabrina, "aided by a quick ear
andigodtaste4 Wea think her progress is rather creditable."
"You'll see meo- ggin.this day three months ' saidiMr. Ved-
derwhen hedookleavyey    :Sq

PRIDE AND POVERTY AND SONSI.              521
"I hope madame will make you pay well for yer keeping, if'
you come so often," said Sonsie saucily. "You've a brave ap-
petite of your own,"
" I am a farmer, Sonsie, cultivating muscle by hard labor. A
useful member of society, thanks to you. No whiskey in my
breath to-day, is there?"
"I didn't notice it yet, sir ; and 'tis true for you, the manly
strength is written all over your face, though 'tis rather red or
so still."
"Sun and wind, Ollam Folda. You did not believe me that
day on the hill, when.I told you so."
"I was very rude that time, sir," she replied,laughing'; " but
I'd not me fine school.manners then. I know better now than
to say such truths, Mr. Vedder ; and, -sir, I do so want to
graduate with these young ladies, Miss Bradshaw and' Miss
Pelican -- I like her. She's as frank and outspoken as an
O'Rouke, and 'tis my white angel's class ; I am sure she'd say
I could do it."
"Impossible, Sonsie ! smuggle four years into three, and you
such a novice.
" Yes, sir, I know that quite well, but I can work. Look at
me face ; isn't 'it healthy. See, 1im as straight as an arrow. I
never neglect me exercise. I take good care of me body, and
I do wish it with all me soul."
"Buts I cannot 'consent that you should kill yourself, and
proud as you are of your=abundant vitality and perfect health,
you will find that you can use them up. I'm your guardlan now,
you know. 'My mother has appointed me to lodkafter you; as
long as you  re her ward, and I shall be held responsible if
any thing bef ls you."
" Nothing 'ill, Mr. Vedder.  I'mabundantly ableindeed."'
Jan opposed her wishes till her2 blue 'eyesnegan tos deepen
and fill, and then he agreed to take the subject to Professor


522 -    PRIDE AND POVERTY, AND SON:SIE.
Noble, and they set off in search of him. They had along talk,
the upshot of which was, -
" She's a rare scholar, Mr. Vedder ; for besides being quick
and ready, she's a digger, and if she has constitution enough to
stand the hard work, she'll do it, and with credit :too."
Jan hardly knew what to think of his visit. Sonsie had come
much nearer to him in these six months, and yet she was
farther off than ever; and when she got out her map of Ireland,
and made him study up Ulster county, and dilated enthusiastic.
ally upon the school she would have, there in the old place,
and the music she would teach, and the needle-work, and the
housekeeping, he felt almost sure that the only way to get her
for his wife would be to go out a missionary, in which case he
might be useful in furtherance of her plans. After he was gone,
Sonsie missed him, and she paused in her tasks to think about
him, and she put carefully away a little pen-knife he had left
upon her desk, after pointing a lead-pencil for her, and also
a handkerchief, marked ".Jan Vedder." She did not give it
out to the wash, but folded it carefully, and patted it, and it
needed washing too, for there was a crimson stain on it, of his
blood, from a cut he had made in his thumb while working for
her, and she pondered Christabel Groenveldt's estimate of a lady,
-- "truth, purity, culture "-and =so on, and compared herself
with others, and measured, herself by the standard which had
always been peerless with her -- "the white Angel"--and she
watched carefully, and tirelessly fought the treacherous idioms,
which were her rock ahead on her road to perfection. -
Six monthsmore filtered away, and Jan. was coming again.
Sabrina went into Sonsie's room, and found her sitting on the
floor, with her apron over her head. She pulled :it down, and
got a view of a hot, disturbed face..
"'~ What's the matter, Sonsie ?" iL

PRDE AND POVERTY, AND SONSIE.           523
"It's a struggle between me pride and me poverty," ex-
claimed the maid.
" How is that, dear. I don't understand."
" Oh, Miss Sabrina, I'm afraid I shall have to put on one of
Mrs. Vedder's dresses in spite of meself; look at the darns of
we !"
" Certainly, my dear girl; of course you will. I have been
waiting for you to see it so, and I felt sure you would work out
clearly the proprieties of the case in your own time. You cer-
tainly owe it to Jan Vedder, the best-friend you have in the
world, to appear your nicest when he comes to visit you."
"But, oh dear, Miss Sabrina."
"Well, what now ? You sit in dust and ashes, but you
lament, like Ezekiel, on the hill-top."
" Don't you see, dear young lady, that I'd be putting meself
under such fresh obligations if I-did; and don't think ill of me
-please don't -but I'm awful proud.'
"It would be a terrible blow if Mr. Vedder should ask you
to marry him, I suppose, some fine day."
"They are gentlefolks, and I am Sonsie Eagan !"  She was
standing in her old attitude, and. looking at Sabrina over her
shoulder, and her blue eyes deepened to rikhest violet. " And
I've made all me plans to go-to Ireland and be a teacher."
" That's nonsense, Sonsie l headstrong nonsense ! There is
plenty of work for you to do here, among your own people,
too, Don't you love Jan Vedder ?"
"He's a handsome, well-contrived gentleman, and almost a
Providence to me, and - but I don't love him for a husband ;
at least, I don't inean .to, and I don't believe I. do. I never
think of him and me in the one breath. I've always kept me
independence good and clear, as far as I was able."
"You are quite worthy to be Mr. Vedder'stwife, 'Sonsie. I
hope you will be. I could look forward to long years of de-


524- PRIDE AND POVERTY, AND SONSIE.
lightful intercourse with you as a neighbor. I am sure you will
be a useful woman anywhere, and where so useful as wife to a
splendid fellow, who has loved you so long and so faithfully."
" Miss ,Bradshaw, I-thought you and Mr. Jan a fine couple,
the day ye walked up the broad aisle at Miss Zoe's wedding,"
said Sonsie, who was more deeply moved than she desired to
appear.
"Did you? Well, I believe we were a presentable party,
Chris never looked so handsome but once, and that was when
she came riding up to the little chapel, in her suit of ancient
cut, and her bidegroom by her side. Oh yes, Jan and I looked
nicely that day  i remember thinking so myself."
"I didn't know but ye might stand by that altar, wid yer two
hands joined."
"Me, Sonsie! and Jan Vedder! Oh no. I shall be a free.
woman all my life, I think, Sonsie  but come, let us unlock
the trunk and see what you will wear."'
Very reluctantly Sonsie -complied, and, Sabrina selected a
black silk, and when the Celtic maiden was robed therein, the
young lady took good care not to show the admiration she felt,
lest she should alarm Sonsie's pride, and o  her labor; but
really her comeliness was perfect, and she looked the lady'too,
with her magnificent hair, her shapely hands andfeet; and her
motions, though.brisk and positive, were supple and.harmoni-
ouslygraceful.
" Come- down now, directly, dear," said Sabrina, hasting
away to dress.
They waited a little while in the library, and, began to won-
der that Sonsie did not appear, when they heard her quick foot.-
steps, and she entered with her head'up, her cheeks flaming,
and clothed in her faded gingham.
Sabrina was terribly yezed; but Jan rose eagerly and cour.
teously to greet her,.

PRIDE AND POVERTY, AND SONSIE.           525
.I am the bearer of a message and a commission to. you,
Sonsie. I begged the pleasure of coming, from Judge Sistaire,
who has irtuted mewith acopy of Deacon Williams's will, and
he desires me to-infotmyou, that you are inheriter of Mary,.
Ann's portion of his estate, and also of the share which should
have belonged to poor Bax, by. special request of the brother
and sister, whose joint wishes he took the utmost pleasure in
carrying out; so that I congratulate you upon being absolute
mistress of fifty thousand dollars."
Sonsie sat down breathless, "'Tis the merciful goodness of
the dear Christ, who puts it into the hearts of me two friends
to give me back nme independence," said she presently. " Now
I can repay all the money I've cost your mother, and be me
own free girl once more. .Oh, you don't know how good it
feels! Dear' Miss Mary and Bat! 'Ah, ye truly loved me,
then ! did ye not?"
Sonsie slipped out after a little, and in an incredible space of
time she returned, and Jan, highly as he thought of her beauty,
was astonished 'at it, in his mother's black;silk and lace collar.
The girl was all fervor and fire.- " I am glad it was you- who
brought me the gift, Mr. Vedder," said she, with both hands out.
" I could not have liked it from the 'lips of another body half so
well. Youhave always beensuch a friend to me."
"Thanks, Sonsie; and also for this," touching lightly her robe.
" My dear mother's kindness is' too true and real to be de.
spised. Yoi are a good girl, an I feel sure you *ill ake vise
use of your. fortune ; and now,in this attire, I dare prefer a re-
quest from the:little lady'wh loves to  li you daughter. She
sends her kind dishes, and desires you toy spend the 1g=vaca-
tion at Brookedge, and she says you know quitewell how muth
she needs you."
" Oh, mf dear Miss SabrinaI shell never ege Ireland," whise.
pered Sonsie.  "Tis all over with met" aid he gave in


PRIDE AND POVERTY, AND SONSIE.

grandly, gloriously accepted her position, and nobly-filled it, and
when, after a day at Brookedge, Mrs. Vedder said,-
" Now, Sonsie, you are a rich heiress, and have paid me all
off-.every dime, with compound interest--now, will you
come and be my daughter'?"
The heart-full lassie took the jewelled hand extended to her,
and kissed it. "My lovely little mother, teach me my duties,
till I begin directly."
Jan came in and surprised this tableau. "Congratulate me,
my son," said the fairy matron slyly. "I've got a daughter.,
Come and kiss her, and promise to be a good brother to her."
"Not any sister for me, thank you, mother; but I'll tell you
what I will do, -I'll' be the best husband that ever the sun
shone on, if Sonsie Eagan will take me."
"And is that the way ye Dutch-Yankees make love," replied
Sonsie, glowing. "I never thought I would let you ask me,
sir, but since you've spoken the pretty words, and me mother
wishes it, I'll. do me best  I always do. I'm getting a little
out of that, you know- thank God and this sweet lady  and I,
can bring ye truth and purity, and I'm striving for the culture,
arid the purple blood. There's a dash of it in me veins. 'Twas
NMiss Chris who taught me the makings of a real lady, and
I love and prize you, Mr. Jan, beyond the whole world.
There, how."
Mrs. Vedder took her new daughter in her arms with a
thankful heart,. and.Sorisie, all miles and tears, said, crisply,
"And there goes me new independence, that:I butjust got
the taste of, and I belong to the pair of ye intirely " .
"Mamma, mamma, why don't the men propose," inquired.
the green parrot. - "They do, you silly Polly,"-replied Mrs.
Vedder, picking up the bird, who was doing her, best to be of
the party, climbing her :iitress's;dress with beak andchlaws.
"WPolly put -the kettle on, and we will all have tea," said

Polly, ' in an ecstatic state of spread wings and orange-fiery
eyes.
"Yes, Polly, so we will;, and you and I will go and order it,"
said Mrs. Vedder here walking off and leaving her, son and
daughter together.
CHAPTER LII.
THE MEETING ON THE ALPS.
YOUNG couple, in Tyrolean costume, sat on a rude
li bench before a Swiss chalet, to all appearance well-
pleased with the delightful sunset and with each other.
The lady had long brown curls, and great wistful eyes, and her
companion, who smoked a pipe, was dark and grave. She
was putting the last touches to a picture, which she held up
for his inspection.
" I can scarcely believe that we have been four years married,
Otho," said she.
"Thanks, Sapho. That compliments me, and yet they have
been busy years, and full of variety. Your picture is admir-
able. It surpasses the high expectation I had on that 2oth of
May, when you told me you must see foreign lands. You are
fully entitled to the trifles I have faithfully kept for you; and
now for the song. You have added to your instruments, even
more than you looked to do that day. I think piano, violin,
harp, and guitar will do for a lady. You are a rare woman-
darling. I thought I knew all your graces and possibilities,
but I had not dreamed the halfI find you ever fresh and ever
new ; and, Chris, tell me truly, if you were back under the sun-
shine' of that four-years-old day, d knew me as thoroughly
as you do this evening, would ou say 'yes' ?"

0

521r,

71 MEETING ON THE ALPS.


THE MEETING ON THE ALPS.

Otho was an exacting man, but he was fully .satisfied with
his wife's answer, and was still enjoying its flavor, when a little
toddling beauty came up and rested her small hand on his knee
-a brown-eyed, lovely creature, as like as possible to Chris
in her childhood.
"IPapa, see !" said she, pointing down the mountain with her
baby finger.
"iThey are here, darling," exclaimed he, rising ; " but we will
have our song after the moon comes up. I will not be de-
frauded of the pleasure I have patiently waited these four years
for, even by these our dearest friends;"
Ruth, and George, and Pigeon, and Uncle Alec, and Jan
Vedder. A stately girl was leaning upon his arm, straight as
an arrow, with a complexion of lilies and roses, whom the young
fellow very proudly presented to ,octor and Mrs. Groenveldt
as "my wife."  There was a rich twirl still to her tongue, but
her English was of the choicest, and she had gotten all Chris's
requisites now - " truth, .purity, culture, delicacy" -leaving
nothing to be desired. She had seen Ireland - its palaces and
shealings - and had a good deal to say about them. She had
richly endowed a school in the old place, and waited long
enough to see it prosperously working, and was satisfied to
leave it, having found and taken her proper lace in the station
she was formed to adorn. "Her price is far above rubies; the
heart of her husband doth safely trust in her; she will do him
good, and not evil, all the days of her life."
THE END.

528


  
             
         
       
   
