
    ----CITATION----
        McLeod, Georgie A. Hulse, (1835-1890). Sea Drifts .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7178
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, By ROBERT CARTER & BROTHERS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
            
               EDWARD O. JENKINS, Printer and Stereotyper, 
               20 NORTH WILLIAM STREET.
             
          
          
             
            TO 
                
                  "LADY-BIRD," 
                  MAGGIE RATHBUN, 
                  BESSIE AUSTEN, 
                  MAGGIE MCLEOD, 
                  IDA JOHNSTON, 
                AND To all my Pupils of the Past and Present, THIS BOOK IS LOVINGLY INSCRIBED. 
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               I.-SEA DRIFTS. 9
                
               II.-UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE. 17
                
               III.-EDGECLIFF. 29
                
               IV.-BREAKERS AHEAD. 47
                
               V.-THE HOWARD INSTITUTE. 63
                
               VI.-THE SOIREE. 83
                
               VII.-WISE AND OTHERWISE. 99
                
               VIII.-PRIZE ESSAYS. 119
                
               IX.-SUB ROSA. 137
                
               X.-LETTERS FROM ABROAD. 157
                
               XI.-SUMMER HOLIDAYS. 169
                
               XII.-GONE OUT WITH THE TIDE. 183
                
               XIII.-AT SCHOOL AGAIN. 199
                
               XIV.-NEW FRIENDS. 217
                
               XV.-THE LOST VIKING. 231
                
               XVI.-THE OLD WORLD. 249
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Sea drifts 
             
                
                
               I. Sea Drifts. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Break, break, break, 
                        At the foot of thy crags, O sea! 
                        But the tender grace of a day that is dead, 
                        Will never come back to me." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               "STIR the coals a little, John; it is a fearful night, and I pity the poor souls who are abroad." 
               "Aye," murmured the old man, as he obeyed his wife's behest. 
               Silently, for a time, they sat, looking into the ruddy blaze, but their thoughts evidently wandered-for ever and anon they seemed to listen intently as for a coming step; but though the wind wailed and moaned without, all was still within. 
               There was a kindly look upon each face-the man's was rough and weather-beaten, but his voice was gentle, and his speech scarce such as one might think to hear that humble dwelling. 
               "Does the child sleep, Hetty?" he asked after a time. 
               "No, poor, dear; it is pitiful to see her. I tried to coax her from her mother's bedside, but she looked so sad, and whispered, "Dear Mrs. Brown, please let me stay. I will come when she wakes." 
               "God pity her-God help her; poor little shorn lamb, as she is! The waking will not be for long, I'm thinking; the dear lady is very near her last sleep, but I'll not forget my promise, and I know, Hetty, you'll bear me out in it. While we have a roof over us, little Maude shall never want a home, or some one to say, 'You're welcome.'" 
               "We are poor, John, and she, poor soul, perhaps has nothing; it is but little we can do." 
               "But that little we will never leave undone. Shall we refuse to be about our Master's work, because we can do but a little? Not thus, Hetty, must those, who are called to the Lord's vineyard, neglect to scatter precious seed." 
               "You are right, John; your words and actions ever shame me." 
               "Nay, Hetty, we are both His servants, walking together in the path He marks out for our feet. He will give us strength to do His work." 
               Hours passed on; the flames flickered, then rekindled, shot up crimson spires, wreathing and intertwining in fantastic forms, shedding a ruddy glow upon the two who sat there. The wind swept by, with moaning sound, as though voices were filling the night-air with tones of mortal sorrow; upon the shore the breakers dashed, and the hoarse murmur of the sea, mingled with the voices of the storm, told of danger, wreck and death. 
               Daylight broke, and the early dawn aroused the watchers. Softly they went into the chamber near, and with aching hearts stood by the bed of one of whom they had been speaking, and where, almost as pale and still, a little child was sitting, her head resting on her hand, and her eyes fixed lovingly upon her mother. She raised her hand in warning as they entered, and whispered cautiously, "She is asleep still." 
               So she was, poor little one but never more will the vailed eyes look back with love to thine; never will the sweet voice answer to thy earnest questioning, Never more! In the deep night came a summons from the other shore, and, guided by unseen hands, her life's boat had drifted out over the shoreless sea. The spirit had passed silently from its clay casket, the mortal had put on immortality, and all unconsciously thy watch was kept with angels-she, whom thou did'st so love, was sleeping! 
               The old people were troubled for the child. They dreaded to hear her shrieks and cries when she learned the truth. But they had no need. There was a wild look of agony in her eyes, a clasping of the little hands tightly together, and a quivering of the lips. Large tears rolled down the white cheeks, as though wrung from the spirit's agony; but, save these tokens of grief, she was quiet. 
               They could not persuade her to leave her post, although she knew the pale sleeper needed no watcher now. All through the day she lingered there, often pressing her lips to the waxen hands, and laying her wet cheek against the one so cold and colorless; and through the night she was there still, for no one could resist her pleading. 
               The storm was over. To-night the moonlight came in through the little window, and fell coldly on the two-on the fair face of the dead, whence all trace of suffering had fled, and in its place was set the holy seal of peace and rest. 
               The child, exhausted by her long watch, had nestled to her mother's side, and for a little while she rested; but, even in her sleep, the great trouble that had come upon her seemed present, for she moaned in a broken tone, "Mother, oh, mother!" Her head was pillowed on that dead mother's breast, her troubled face half shaded by the soft curls that had been a mother's pride-and so through the night they were together. The moonbeams looked in upon them, and the Eye that never sleeps, but marks the steps of earth's children, watched over all. 
               In the morning, rough but not ungentle hands made ready the stranger's grave, and left her there to sleep, with the murmur of the waves for a requiem, that found an echo in her child's sad heart. 
               She stood there until the last clod was pressed down upon her mother's narrow home; gazed out despairingly over the vast expanse of ocean, with its white-crested waves dancing in the sunlight; turned to the little group around her, when the sense of her desolation seemed to overwhelm her, and falling senseless into the tans outstretched to take her, she was tenderly carried back to the fisherman's home. 
             
             
                
               II. Unconscious Influence. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Sunny present! thus I read it, 
                        By remembrance of my past: 
                        Its to-day and its to-morrow 
                        Are as lifetimes vague and vast; 
                        And each face in that green valley 
                        Takes for you an aspect mild, 
                        And each voice grows soft in saying, 
                        'Kiss me, little child!'" 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               THE storm that spent its wrath that wild. November night was long remembered in the annals of the tillage. The booming signal-gun had waked the villagers from sleep, and sent them forth into the night, striving to rescue. Vain were their efforts. The brave ship was a total wreck. There drifted to the shore day after day lifeless, disfigured bodies, but the mother and the child alone survived to tell of the many who had gone to a watery grave. 
               Mrs. Allison had lingered but a few hours, after she was taken to the home of the aged couple, who left no means untried to win her back to life. She had spoken but a few low words of entreaty: "My child! do not forsake her!" Then, save a yearning wistful look that followed the child's movements, she seemed unconscious of what was passing. 
               They could not tell what caused her death, whether it was the shock and terror of that fearful night, or whether her head had struck against a floating spar as it drifted shoreward, She and Maude had been lashed to a plank by an old sailor, who himself went down beneath the waters. 
               For a long time the child shivered and turned pale at the sight of the sea, or the sound of wind and waves, when the nights were stormy. 
               After a time, however, she learned to love the sea-shore, and when the Summer came, would linger for hours, gathering shells and bright pieces of sea-weed, that sometimes were thrown high up upon the shore. 
               She was looked on very kindly, this little fair child, with her shy, gentle ways, and her dark blue eyes that looked into your face as though they said, "Love me, for I am all alone." 
               The village children looked up to her as among them, though not of them; they referred to her in their childish disputes, and many a sweet flower and bright colored shell were pressed upon her by the sun-burned, bare-footed little ones whom she had befriended. 
               But strange to all seemed the reverence with which she was regarded by Will Cameron, one of the oldest fishermen among them. 
               "To see that old reprobate," said a talkative woman to her neighbor; "to see how he quiets down as the little one comes in sight, dear little motherless lamb, that she is-and Fm sure no one ever heard Will use so many civil words, since in this place he's lived." 
               "Indeed, no," replied the other; "and I'm told he's trying to break himself of swearing to please her, and they do say he was seen hanging about outside the church last Sunday. Sure, the child's a better preacher than the parson, if it be so!" 
               There was some truth in their words. An influence was working that they knew not of. A strain of sweet music had slumbered long in the old man's heart, and a chord, lightly touched by childish fingers, had awakened the old melody, and its happy echoes were with him now always. 
               Finding him one morning at work upon his boat, she stopped to answer his friendly greeting: then lingered to watch his movements. He arranged for her a rude seat of board, throwing a piece of sail over it for a cushion, as he said, "And if little 'Lady-bird' could stop awhile, she was welcome as a blossom in the side of a rock." She was glad to stay, taking possession of her throne, as she called it. For awhile she sat quietly looking out on the water, where the boats were moving, like sea-gulls, with a swift dancing motion, the sails looking white in the sunlight as the driven snow. 
               "I have been thinking of what you telled me, and if I've broke my promise, it's owing to my natural forgetfulness. The parson give me up long ago, and I don't know as it would have done any good if he hadn't; but since that day, when you read to me out of the Book about swearing, I try to remember it. Sometimes 
                   
                     WILL CAMERON. Sea Drifts. p. 20. 
                  
                  
                   times they're half said-some of those words you know: but a look of your blue eyes, and the smile on my Bessie's face, comes to hold back the rest." 
               "Was Bessie your wife? "asked the child, softly. 
               "No, she was my one little child, that her mother left me in my lonely home. You have a look of her on your bonny face, and the music of every word you say is like the sweet tunes she was aye singing. The gentle-folk that came about here in the Summer, used to talk to her, and one of them made a picture of her, that they say brought a deal of money." 
               "How old was she?" asked Maude. 
               "Eight summers she had seen the fishing-boats go out to sea-the ninth I was alone." 
               "I was ten in May. It seems so long since last birth-day-so long." said the child, sadly. 
               "But the time goes on-it goes on all the same, though sometimes it seems standing still. My little lassie will seem always a child to me, but many a year has gone since she played here on this same shore. She would have been a woman now, but it may be that where she's gone they do always keep their youth." 
               Maude's eye's glistened, her voice quivered, as she said in a low tone, "Mamma is there; Bessie's home is hers; we shall go to see them one day." 
               "Mayhap the likes of you will, Miss, but for me, I'm thinking I saw the last of little Bessie when her white arms were thrown up out of the water for help, and her curls floating golden as the very sunbeams out there on the crests. And they as had lured her out in their cockleshell of a boat for their pleasure, never one of them was man enough to risk his worthless life to save my darling. May the curse--" 
               "Oh Will, dear Will, don't say it-pray don't! God could have saved her. He could have saved mamma; but He wanted them, so He took them. It's hard, oh, so hard for us; but they are very happy!" 
               Her little hand was laid in the sailor's rough palm; for she had left her seat, and, standing by him, her head leaned against his breast. He stroked her hair fondly, and a softer expression stole into his face. 
               "I won't say the words, for her sake and yours, 'Lady-bird;' but if I could only have had her in my arms once more; if I could have laid her by her mother, and had the flowers growing about her, I shouldn't have felt so lonely." 
               They parted oh the sandy shore that Summer morning, but the sunlight went not all with her. His life had seemed hard and rough, since its brightness went out-went down with the bright-haired child beneath the water; but he was more hopeful now, and turned again unto the light. 
               To strangers Maude spoke but little of herself, seeming to shrink from idle questioning; but with Mr. Brown and his wife, to whose care she was so strangly left, she talked of her mother's home across the Atlantic. It was a bright English home, and the child thought of those whose presence had, made it glad with a sad yearning to be there again, though they, were missing. They were coming to visit her father's brother, who was living in America in the West; but where, she could not remember, every thing seemed so confused since that night. Her papa had died when she was very young, she could not remember him. 
               Mr. Brown took counsel with the Minister, and every step was taken that might lead to the discovery of her friends, but it seemed of no avail. Month after month passed, but brought no tidings. 
               They took her to their hearts as they had taken her to their home, as one of the lambs of the flock, to whom the storm-wind had been tempered. 
               Many a sweet memory of home she would recall in the Winter evening, as the old man mended his nets, and the good wife's busy needles kept time to the tick of the old clock. 
               Or the fisherman would talk of Jesus, who had loved the fisher-folk and taught them by the sea, who loved the little ones on earth, who loved them still in heaven. 
               And she, with her blue eyes fixed earnestly on the sun-browned, honest face, would drink in, as it were, the simple teachings of the aged disciple who loved the Master, and walked not afar off but very near to the Good Shepherd. 
               Thus passed the Winter, and like a bright flower, springing in the cleft of some stern rock, grew the fair delicate child, making bright with her presence the fisherman's humble home. 
             
             
                
                
               III. Edgecliff. 
                
                  
                      
                        "These children danced together in the shade, 
                        Or stretch'd their hands to see the rainbow fade; 
                        And thought the light of parting day too short, 
                        That called them, ling'ring from their daily sport. 
                        His eye like the eaglet's met the ray 
                        Of noon unblenching, as the earlier day; 
                        A brede of sea-shells on his bosom strung, 
                        A quiver lightly, o'er his shoulder slung. 
                        Buoyant with hope, and airiness, and joy, 
                        All turned to look again upon the boy." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               FOR two years Maude attended the village-school, learning what little the old schoolmaster could teach her from books. An only child, she had been carefully trained under her mother's eye, and with a natural fondness for study, had made rapid advancement. And while her mind was thus richly stored, her heart-culture had been equally cared for. Very early, "the sweet story of old," told in simple phrase, had awakened her best and purest feelings. She had been taught by one whose daily life enforced precept by example-by the fair young mother, who had left the little one so lonely. But He who said, "Leave thy fatherless children with me," had tempered the wind to the shorn lamb, and raised up for the orphan-child friends true and loving. 
               "Mamma has a teacher for me from the city, Mrs. Brown, and she wants you to let Maude come and take lessons with me; otherwise, she is in despair of my ever learning any thing beyond the multiplication-table and distraction, as little Jim Green calls it. Miss James says it is just as easy to teach two as one, and I can tell her, in my case, she'll find it twice as pleasant, for I am morally certain I can't study alone. So you'll let Maude come, won't you, you dear, darling old lady? Say 'Yes,' do!" and the energetic visitor treated Mrs. Brown to a hug that threatened suffocation. 
               "There, Miss Isabel, my dear little girl, pray, have pity on my old neck. You must have a temptation to put me out of the way altogether." 
               "Not if I know myself, ma'am; but you haven't said Maude may come yet. It is almost school-time now, and if I am late, perhaps I shall have to write the copy I hate above all others, 'Procrastination is the thief of time;' if it is, I wonder Old Time wasn't a ruined merchant long ago! But do tell Maude to get ready, for I'm in a dreadful hurry." 
                
               Fearing that another hug was impending, Mrs. Brown did say "Yes," adding, "tell your mamma that I will try to see her after midday." 
               "She'll be glad to see you, bless your heart; she always is. Come, Maude Allison, be in a hurry, like common mortals, for once in your life. I'll take good care of her, Mrs. Brown;" and dancing around her friend, she scarcely served to expedite her movements as she wished. Graceful as a bird on a bending bough, wild as a fawn, Isabel Lee formed a striking contrast to the gentle little girl, for whom she had formed so warm a friendship in the brown school-house just outside the village. 
               She was an only daughter-this dark-haired, bright-eyed, impulsive Isabel. 
               Dr. Lee had been residing but a few years in Edgecliff, tempted thither by the healthy situation and invigorating sea breezes, hoping to win back health for his invalid wife, who had lately been much benefited by the change. 
               Blessed with abundant means, kind and courteous to all, they lived for their children; and never were two more tenderly cherished, surrounded by happier influences, than were Isabel and Harry Lee. 
               "Here we are, Miss James, all in good time. This is my friend, Maude Allison," and for a moment a shade of dignity hovered about Miss Isabel Lee, as she arranged the books and placed a chair for Maude near her own. 
               "I am happy to make your acquaintance, Miss Allison, and it will give me great pleasure, young ladies, to cross with you the threshold of the Temple of Science, and unfold to your view the treasures therein contained. To what branches of study has your attention been particularly directed, Miss Allison?" 
               "Oh, to every branch you could imagine," interposed Isabel; "branches, limbs, trees, roots and all! Maude is not such a dunce as I, although she is a year younger. She'll comfort you for my deficiencies. I'll contemplate the covers of the books, but she'll devour the contents, fly-leaves and all." 
                
               "My dear Miss Isabel, if you will allow me, we will now draw up a plan of study for future reference, and I hope you will soon become as much interested in the pursuit of knowledge as is your friend." 
               Isabel gave a comical look, then seated herself, book in hand, apparently intent on the lesson that had been assigned her. The tasks for the day were light, and the young students were soon released by their kind and eccentric teacher, with a parting injuction to "bask in the sunshine, for the night soon came on." 
               Away they went through the open door, down the garden path, and out of the little gate that opened toward the shore. "Isn't she what Harry would call 'jolly?'" said thoughtless Isabel; then, never waiting for a reply, continued, "I do believe I never told you that Harry came home last night for a month. Isn't it grand? We won't stay out long, for he'll soon be back. Papa wanted him to ride this morning, and he couldn't refuse, of course." 
               "Of course, Miss Chatterbox; a true prophetess this time, for he did not stay long, though he did ride with papa. And pray, has your ladyship any more information respecting my movements for the public good?" 
               A turn in the path had discovered the speaker to the startled girls, who for a moment had no words of answer, although the young head was uncovered, and the bright, joyous face of Harry Lee bent before them in mock reverence. 
               "Well met" he continued. "I did not think that you would be free so soon. I see that Miss Jim doesn't intend to keep you tied to her apron-string, and I honor her accordingly." 
               "Harry, you shocking boy, you must not speak so disrespectfully of Miss James-what will people think of you? But you must speak to Maude; you have heard of her, I know, and Maude, this is my madcap brother." 
               "Happy to make your acquaintance, Miss Maude, and 'hope you are the same,' as the Academy boys say when they write home." 
               Maude smiled and blushed, but walked quietly on by Isabel's side, rather puzzled at the style of Harry's conversation. 
               "Suppose we go down to the Cove. I saw a little boat rocking idly out by the posts. I think I can scare up the owner, if you would like a sail." 
               "Oh, how pleasant; just the very thing I have been longing for; the very day for it, too-just bright enough and not too warm; I do so love to be on the water. 
                      
                        'Over the rail 
                        My hand I trail 
                        Within the shadow of the sail.' 
                     
                   There, Mr. Lee, don't you think I shall distinguish myself yet?" 
               "I'm afraid not, Isa, if you try it by wearing borrowed plumage. You couldn't make verses like that, if you were to sit with a pen in your hand from now till-never." 
               "A pen! Make verses! Did ever a poet hear such insults? Can't you see that it's inspiration?" and pointing to the sea, she continued: 
                      
                        "'I heed not if 
                        My rippling skiff 
                        Float swift or slow, from cliff to cliff- 
                         
                        With dreamful eyes, 
                        My spirit lies 
                        Under the walls of Paradise.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "And under the walls, you'll be likely to stay, for without some special aid, you'll never get over them. But here we are, and I suppose this ancient mariner is owner, for I see he is dragging in the boat which took my fancy." 
               "It is Will Cameron," said Maude, going on before them, to be gladly welcomed by her humble friend. 
               "It is so long since I had a sight of you, 'Lady-bird,' I was thinking, maybe, it was not fair weather up at the cottage." 
               Maude explained-that she was told he had gone out to the fishing grounds; she had not been to the shore lately, and she was to study up at Edgecliff with Miss Lee, who had a teacher from the city, and was now coming with her brother who was at home for the holidays. 
               "That is just it," said Harry, "and you know, Captain, the holidays are made for fun. As a first step to pleasure, I should like to hire this craft of yours for a sail, if you are agreeable." 
                
               "I'm afraid you'll have to take some other step, young master. It's no day to go out-there's a cloud coming up that betokens no good to the lads that are afloat, and as to them that's on shore they're best just there." 
               "Come Captain, don't croak, the girls are keen for a sail; you'll go with us, I'm sure, rather than disappoint them, and if you're along, there can be no danger." 
               "I cannot-I must not; do not ask me-it is not safe." 
               "Why, man alive, there's no cloud, only in your thoughts. Look up-did ever the sun shine brighter? And the sea looks calm enough to be asleep. Come, girls, I must go without him, I suppose." 
               "Come, Maude," said Isabel, "it's useless to waste time; it is getting near to sunset," and she resumed her song in a sweet voice that left its echo with you- 
                      
                        "'My winged boat, 
                        A bird afloat, 
                        Sails round the purple peaks remote.' 
                     
                  
                   Come, Maude, or we shall see no peaks today, if we idle here." 
               "Isabel, I cannot! Pray, let us go back! Will knows best; do persuade your brother to give it up for to-day." 
               "Any thing more, your ladyship-any other grandmotherly advice to give free gratis for nothing? Pray, let it be short, for Master Harry Lee is not a model of patience." 
               Maude could not help laughing at her comical expression, but resolutely refused to go into the boat, and urged her return. 
               "I suppose I must, since you will have it so; but I must say, Maude, you could have been a little less selfish, if you tried." 
               "I am not selfish, I hope," said poor Maude; "I am sorry to spoil your pleasure, but I think it right to stay." 
               They went back, not so merry a party as they had left the house, but more thoughtful. Harry Lee was pondering on the firm but gentle face beside him, the sweet low-spoken words which carried with them untold influence. 
               Maude herself felt uncomfortable at interfering fering with: the enjoyment of others, and was glad when she found Mrs. Brown ready to go back to the cottage, having acquiesced in the arrangement Mrs. Lee had made for her to be a pupil of Miss James. 
               "It is right," had long been Maude's watch-word; and though, as to-day, it had often cost her much to adhere to it, she had never yet had cause to regret it. 
               Will Cameron was not mistaken. The cloud which the children could not discern had spread rapidly, the storm came nearer and broke in fury, bringing death and disaster in its train. 
               "Pray God that the boats may not be near to-night," was the prayer of earnest hearts. But they, alas! were nearing the port-nearing it for the last time. The women and children crowded to the shore, unmindful of the driving rain, listening amid the roar of the "breakers for the signal-watching for those who would not come back. 
               Days after, the beach was strewn with driftwood, that but yesterday had been staunch barks-barks that had weathered many a storm, and now these rifted masts and floating planks were all-no more came to comfort them in their deep agony. The sleepers, ah! the sleepers-where were they? When the sea gives up its treasures they will awaken, but not now. 
               Among the missing was Maude's kind protector, Mr. Brown. He had gone at the earnest solicitation of his neighbors, for their expedition was an unusual one, in which they sought for his experience and wiser judgment. 
               Well had it been for the rude men, had they learned the lessons of true wisdom he had often sought to share with them! His trust was in One who rules the storm; and the voice of Him who walked upon the waters was known to this humble but devout follower. At his Saviour's word he passed, unfearing, the swellings of Jordan and anchored safe close by the shining shore. 
               The Summer passed. The old wife drooped sadly, missing from her side the companion of fifty changeful years. She had complained of weariness and went to bed much earlier than 
                   
                     THE STORM. Sea Drifts. p. 40 
                  
                  
                   had been her wont. She made them draw aside the curtain, that she might look out toward the sea; it had been her custom to turn thus her nightly gaze upon her husband's watery grave. It was the last time. She was very weary, she said-weary of waiting; soon she should go to meet him. They found her thus in the morning, with a peaceful smile upon the face that would wear it there for evermore. "They rested from their labors." 
               Alone, again, little motherless child in the empty nest-lonely, but not forgotten by Him "who doeth all things well!" 
               "You will come with me, Maude; this is no place for you now, my child," said good Dr. Lee, who lingered in the stricken home, where a few of the neighboring women tried, in their way, to comfort the little girl, so touching in her quiet sorrow. 
               Will Cameron had never left her since he knew that Death had again been busy with her treasures. 
               "I told her but now, sir," he said, "that a welcome was waiting for her in my cabin, and a place that's been empty long; and very proud I'd be to have her, for sunshine would come with her to any man's hearth; but I'm a rough old weather-beaten hulk, and your home is more like what she's been used to." Then turning to Maude, "Keep up a brave heart, little one! After the storm comes a calm. I remember you told me how, even when the life-boat is like to sink, the Great Captain takes the helm and brings it safe to port. I'm yours to serve you always, and when you want the old man, never be afraid to call on him. And I'm grateful to you, Dr. Lee, to you and to your's, for your goodness. She's none of mine, but there's a look of my Bessie about her that holds me to life." 
               So it was that Maude Allison went to another more luxurious home, and straightway took her place as a daughter of the house. 
               Fresh advertisements were inserted in the leading city journals, but if they met the eye of any with whom she could claim kindred, none came to claim her; and they, to whom she was growing daily dearer, rejoiced to have it so. 
               Fondly cherished by Dr. and Mrs. Lee, carefully trained by Miss James, petted and caressed by wayward, warm-hearted Isabel, life was full of brightness, not dimmed but softened by a memory of the hidden treasures. beneath the waves and the lonely graves in the churchyard by the sea. 
             
             
                
                
               IV. Breakers Ahead. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Heighho! daisies and buttercups, 
                        Fair yellow daffodils, stately and tall; 
                        A sunshiny world full of laughter and leisure, 
                        And fresh hearts unconscious of sorrow and thrall, 
                        Send down on their pleasure smiles passing its measure- 
                        God that is over us all." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               "THERE'S a pleasant prospect for two re young ladies!" said Isabel Lee, coming rather abruptly into the study-room, where Maude was sitting in the waning light of a December afternoon, still engaged books. "A very Pleasant prospect; I'm enraptured!" 
               "I should not think so to look at you, Isa; your face tells another story." 
               "Don't look at my face then, Miss Allison; but gaze far down in the depths of my great heart and you'll find there an earthquake of joy." 
               "What is the matter now?" 
               "What is the matter now?" mimicked Isabel; "you meek little darling! Why, I've found-a silver quarter! I haven't torn my dress for a week! I've only been out of temper once a day, instead of once an hour! I've carried the conjugation of the verbs about in my head, until I'm threatened with a brain fever! I've distracted myself over the four fundamental rules of arithmetic, and now, I'm going to have my reward!" 
               "I hope it will be something very pleasant." 
               "You do? I'm glad to hear it, for the only pleasant thing about it (as misery loves company) is, that you will be an equal sufferer; it's an affliction to be made over to us jointly." 
               "I suppose when you get through with the embellishing I shall be allowed to hear the facts of the case," said Maude, amused and puzzled. 
               "Don't be provoking, Maude, for I'm not in a state of mind to be trifled with. I'm 'very much flustrated,' as Bridget says, when she lets the cake burn." 
               Maude laid aside her book, and drew the lounge near the cheerful fire. "Now, Miss Lee, let me prevail on you to make yourself comfortable," She needed no second bidding, but threw herself wearily upon it, while Maude took possession of a cushion close by. 
               "Now, Isa, what is it? I'm ready to pity, laugh or scold, as the occasion may require." 
               A very pretty picture it was: the cozy room with its appliances for study, brightened, as now, with the glow of fire-light, and the young faces that were both so fair, yet so unlike. Time had written no changes on their fair smooth brows; Isabel at fifteen was very much the same gay, thoughtless Isabel of two years ago; and Maude, a year her junior, seemed from her staid womanly ways the elder of the two. 
               Hers was the leading spirit. Naturally timid are yielding, but firm in adhering to the right, she wielded the same unconscious influence that had won Will Cameron to better thoughts and better deeds. 
               Early grief had matured her character. Though sorely bereaved, her lot had been a happy one. Very gently was she dealt with, thought of now as a daughter of the house, and as such enjoying all the privileges of a cherished child. 
                
               But her position was not forgotten; sadly: and often she thought of it, and her purpose to become independent, through her own exertions became day by day more fixed. She was improving to the utmost the educational advantages shared with Isabel. She was gentle, affectionate and self-sacrificing; watchful to promote the happiness and comfort of those around, striving by every means in her power to show her appreciation of the kindness lavished upon her. 
               Isabel was truly what her mother called her, "a Summer child." Reared in luxury, indulged in every caprice, accustomed from her very babyhood to be the first object of consideration to those around her, how would she ever bear the rough winds of adversity? 
               Such were the dreamers by the fire, when the daylight had faded and the shadows fallen darkly about the room. They drew nearer to each other, and for a time were strangely quiet; but not long could Isabel remain thus. 
               "Heigho! old lady, don't you think we've been solemn long enough? I believe I have had an attack of the blues," and she stirred the fire energetically, until the blaze brightened every nook and corner, chasing the shadows all away. 
               "I do not feel particularly solemn, Isa but you have had a wondrous spell of silence. I'm prepared for a burst of eloquence after such profound meditation." 
               "Sorry to disappoint your ladyship, but you shouldn't raise your expectations so high; they are sure to come to grief, like the tune they pitched in church the other day, in a key that no mortal voice could hope to reach. But 'murder will out'-so here is the long and short of the matter: Miss James is going away." 
               "Going away! Miss James! Surely you jest." 
               "A sorry jest you'll find it." 
               "But why? What is the matter? What has gone wrong?" 
               Maude's distress, so vividly pictured on her face, seemed to rouse the old spirit of mischief which Isabel did not care to resist. 
                
               "Every thing has gone wrong, it seems. Miss James is in despair at the idea of ever making scholars of such hopeless dunces as Miss Allison and Miss Lee, particularly the former; so she is going to look up more congenial spirits, more fertile soil, wherein she may plant seeds of knowledge, with hope of a more abundant harvest. Not having been so fortunate as to meet with a vender of mental capacities, she has become disgusted, and leaves you to your fate-from which, may the good fairies deliver you!" 
               "Pray, do not take that for a fixed fact, Miss. Allison. Miss Isabel is pleased to be merry at our expense," and Miss James, whose entrance they had not noticed, sat down by the laughing Isabel, who rose to make room for her. 
               The lady looked very fondly on the young faces raised to meet her glance; Isabel's dimpled with mirth, Maude's grave and gentle. She had grown to love her young charges, to whom she had been friend as well as teacher-earnestly interested for their welfare. That she was leaving them, was no less a source of regret to herself than to them. Her younger sister was about to marry, and one daughter must be at home to care for the infirm, afflicted mother, dependent on their exertions. Her duty was plain and could not be set aside. She told them this, warming at their interest in her friends and at their girlish speculations as to her sister's future, invested, in their eyes, with that peculiar interest which always surrounds a bride. Then their thoughts went back to their own position, and Isabel murmured at the consequence of this parting. 
               "Just to think of leaving this dear, dear old place, to be shut up in some old den of a boarding-school! I can't think of it without a sense of suffocation! I shall pine away and die, or come home a living skeleton to reproach my father for his cruelty!" 
               "I think you will like school after the first feeling of home-sickness wears off. Mrs. Howard is a very estimable lady. I'm sure you cannot fail to love her." 
               "No, Miss, I shall never, never like it. Maude may, she can live by rule; but I shall be in disgrace from the first of the session till the end." 
               "Am I to go, too?" said Maude; "I did not think of that!" 
               "You will please think of it, then, from, this time forth, with all due solemnity; for not a step do I stir without you. I shall need some one to keep me from going straight into destruction, or battering out my small portion of brains against the black-boards that line the walls! Let us go to mamma and see whether this decision is unchangeable." 
               The room which they entered, softly, was an inviting retreat. Pictured faces were upon the walls, and sunny landscapes of other lands, lowers shed their sweetness there, although it was midwinter; the soft light from a shaded lamp revealed books in rich binding, and portfolios of engravings evinced refined and cultivated taste. 
               Upon a low couch was the fragile form of Mrs. Lee, who seemed rather the sister than the mother of Isabel. She was glad to have them there, she said, and her child nestled to her side. The white hand was laid fondly on her head, then toyed with the girl's dark hair, as if it loved to linger amid its raven wealth. 
               "Must we go, mother? Can you do without us? Is there no other way? We will study no end of lessons, only do not send us from you," and Isabel looked beseechingly into her mother's eyes. 
               "It is for your good, my darling; your father thinks it to be the best. You know that it will not seem home without you; you must improve every moment, that you may the sooner return. I shall miss you sadly-you will have Maude, but I-" 
               "I cannot go, mamma; you must not be left alone;" and Isabel's face flushed with excitement. 
               "I shall not be alone, my love; your cousin Mattie is coming to us; so, you see, I shall be cared for. I shall have your letters to watch for; you and Maude must write more at length and more frequently than Harry does. I shall want to hear all about your, school life, your studies, your companions-indeed, all that interests you. Ah! here is your father; how we shall miss these evening talks!" 
               Dr. Lee bent tenderly over his wife-hoped she was better; she surely looked so. 
               "Mamma is excited, and so am I," said Isabel, pouting the rosy lips that her father was coaxing for a kiss. 
               "What is it now, madcap? any more broken flower-vases, or has your bird gone again?" 
               "It is this going to school; it is the most hateful thing I ever heard of; I do not see the least necessity for it! I'm sure I do not want to be crammed with perpendicular lines, 'ologies,' and dead languages-not I! I admire Miss Isabel Lee much more as she is!" 
               "What a sad case of satisfied ignorance! laughed the Doctor; "but what does 'Ladybird' think of it?" 
               "I think I shall like it on some accounts very much," said Maude. 
               "There's an example for you, Miss Lee!" 
               "I didn't expect any thing better. I am sure that, in the other state of existence Mr. Hawkins was talking of the other clay, Maude must have been a paper-worm-she takes to books so naturally." 
               "And pray, with what species would you class yourself?" and he turned her bright face fondly toward him. 
               "I haven't considered the subject sufficiently to tell you-among the ornamental, I suppose. I am fully aware of my good-for-nothing propensities, and I know somebody not far off, that hasn't discouraged me much." 
               "Perhaps somebody has found that out, and this school is the first step toward retrieving past omissions and commissions." 
               "So it is really to be, papa? 'No hope?' as your patients say." 
               "It is really to be, Isabel, and there is great hope that my little girl will come home wiser, if not better." 
               "I shall have to take Snowball's text as a motto after this: 'Bressed am dey dat 'spects nuffin, case dey am not gwine to be disappinted.'" 
                
               Preparations for departure were speedily made, and when Harry came home, just before Christmas, his recitals of the brighter side of school life somewhat reconciled Isabel to the inevitable necessity. 
               Harry's home-coming was a bright episode. Sleigh-riding expeditions to Newport, invitations to social gatherings in the neighborhood, filled up days that passed, they thought, more rapidly than ever days had passed before. 
               "To-morrow-alas, to-morrow!" sighed Isabel. They were in the study-room for a goodbye talk. Miss James had been away some weeks. They had received letters, telling of her sister's marriage-of her own loneliness. There were words of counsel to her former charges, in whose welfare, she said, she must always feel interested. 
               "I should be glad to have her back, dear old soul-shouldn't you, Maude?" 
               "Indeed I should. I think she is so good." 
               "I don't like these terribly good people; they are generally great bores," was Harry's comment. 
                
               "I suppose they bring your own shortcomings too forcibly to mind, brother mine! But that is a very impolite remark in the presence of: ladies. You should make an apology to Maude; perhaps, as she is one of the terribly good ones, she may excuse you." 
               "I! oh, no; I am very, very far from, it. I wish I were-I wish I were!" 
               "What has come over your quiet little lady-ship? Why so doleful, and-let me see-tears in her eyes, I verily believe!" 
               "That will do, Harry. I allow no one but myself to lecture Maude. Come and see that my boxes are properly corded. Leave a good impression as a parting legacy to your mourning friends." 
               Maude was sad. She had been looking at the past-taking a farewell glance at the old life upon the threshold of the new. She had been to say "good bye" to Will Cameron; and the old man's sorrow at par ting, his tearful blessing, had touched her heart. 
               She had stood beside the three graves on the hillside; the cold Winter wind swept over them, all unheeded by the peaceful sleepers. She was leaving there her buried treasures. 
               On the living she had no claim of kindred ties. Far across the waters, a dim picture of the past, she seemed to see her only home; but they who were its binding links-where had they now their dwelling? Of one, though long and earnestly sought, no tidings came. She was in a country not her own, dependent upon strangers, and one-the dearest and the best-beneath that lowly mound her earthly part was lying; and even, as in those early days of childish grief, there came from the girl's lips a moan, a half stifled cry of "Mother! oh, my mother!" 
             
             
                
               V. The Howard Institute. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Why, ah! why, my heart, this sadness; 
                        Why, 'mid scenes like these decline? 
                        Where all though strange is joy and gladness, 
                        Say what wish can yet be thine?" 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               THEY were ushered into the study-room of Mrs. Howard's Institute, with the forlorn sensation of strangers in a strange place; left among fifty merry girls, not one of whom they had ever seen before. 
               "You will soon be at home among your companions. Young ladies, you, I am sure, will extend a welcome to Miss Isabel Lee and Miss Maude Allison," were the parting words of the lady Principal, as she closed the door and left them to their fate. 
               A moment's pause-then chairs were placed for them by one or two who drew near, and began, in school-girl fashion, to question them of home and friends. With the pain of parting still fresh at their hearts, even Isabel felt little inclined for conversation; so the girls went back to the group they had left and were soon chatting gayly. 
               "I say, Maggie, what will you wear to-morrow night? I am dying to know before I decide." 
               "My best behavior, at your service, Miss Kate Contee;" and a tall, graceful girl came forward, bending in mock courtesy before the bright-eyed maiden, whose life-like appearance gave no token of the dying condition in which she proclaimed herself to be. 
               "Deeply indebted, Miss Ruthven, for the information, and if it's perfectly convenient I should like to borrow the pattern." 
               "With all my heart, if you think you could make it a fit; so don't forget to send for it early in the morning! At present, I vote that we rehearse our parts before we are called to Mrs. Howard;" then, approaching the sad newcomers, she said, in a lower tone, "You have joined us at a busy time-on the eve of our annual soire, and, I fear, too much absorbed by preparation for the great event to welcome you as cordially as we should." 
                
               Margaret Ruthven was a leader in the school, looked up to and loved by the younger, admired and respected by the elder pupils; and once taken under her special protection, the strangers did not want for overtures of friendship and kindly proffered attentions. She went with them to their room, which she was glad happened to be next her own, and left them, promising to call and go down with them to tea. 
               A very despairing glance Isabel cast around the room, forming so strange, a contrast to her own luxuriant apartment and yet it was far superior to the accommodations usually found in similar institutions. The low French bed and toilet were not homely with their snowy covers; there were two or three fancy chairs, a round table with its study-lamp, hanging-shelves for books, and a closet with ample requisites for bathing purposes. One window only there was, but it looked out on a spacious ground, which in Summer was pleasant to the eye, with its shade-trees and bright flower-borders. 
               They sat down feeling very desolate, however, thinking of the home-faces and the loving hearts so filled with thoughts of them. Very quietly they sat there, with not even words of comfort for each other. 
               "May I come in?" said a glad voice, and not awaiting permission, Maggie Ruthven's bright face looked in, seeming to take away something of the gloom and chill. 
               "Oh, this will never do; you must not give way at the very first. Why, the fire is almost out! Do you know we look after our own comfort in this establishment? See! this covered box will be kept filled with wood for you; here, are matches quite handy, and I think we will soon change the aspect of affairs. There is an hour yet before the bell rings, and that will give us time to put the house in order and make ourselves at home. You have no idea how soon we can become accustomed to the change. I was a very helpless, useless sort of a somebody when I first came, but I assure you I quite enjoy my independence." 
               She had been busily engaged for their comfort while she talked, and soon a bright fire was burning in the little stove; the lamp lit, giving, as she had said, a much brighter aspect to the room and its belongings. Maude and Isabel roused themselves and gladly seconded her kind efforts. Trunks were opened; books brought out and arranged upon the shelves; one or two little ornamental nick-nacks placed on the table and toilet; a pictured group of home-faces in its rich frame hung upon the wall; dresses were arranged in the wardrobe, and clothing laid away in the drawers. A servant was summoned to remove the, trunks to the room appropriated to such belongings, and they looked at each other with their faces glowing with exercise and brightened with happier thoughts. 
               "'Many hands make light work;' behold! Miss Lee and Miss Allison 'at home,' ready to be called upon, invited out, admiring and admired." 
               "We are very, very grateful for your kindness," said Isabel. "I am afraid we were two very forlorn damsels, when you took pity on us." 
                
               "Of course-I know all about it; but you may give thanks that you are of a different order from the last arrival. A young lady was entered after you came up, and if you are charitably inclined, you can come to the rescue in the evening; for, if I am not mistaken, she will need the intervention of all good powers." 
               "Do you know who she is?" 
               "I do not. She rejoices in the euphonious appellation of Maddalina Glorivina Smithee. I think it is a case of nouveau riche. I understand she is a parlor boarder, and evidently considers her wealth as entitling her to tread a royal path to learning." 
               "Does she seem sad?" inquired Maude. 
               "Not at all. I left her giving the girls an account of her birthday party; of what she had on, of what her 'mar' had on, and how some Lucy Jane nearly died of spite, because she wasn't invited. But I hear our summons; I will pilot you safely down. Mrs. Howard has kindly allowed me to sit with you at the table, in consideration of our being next door neighbors." 
                
               She led the way through the. long hall, and from rooms on either side came their light-hearted occupants, down the winding stairs to the dining-saloon, where they took their places at one of the long tables over which Mrs. Howard presided; the other being appropriated to the younger girls under the charge of Miss Wilson, the first assistant, and Mdlle. Euliac, the resident French governess. 
               Very little appetite had Maude and Isabel, though the table was well and amply spread. None at all, it seemed, had Miss Maddalina; for she had asked to be excused, declaring, so said the knowing ones, "That she had been stuffing all day, and couldn't eat a mite." 
               Isabel and Maude were detained a moment by Mrs. Howard, who kindly inquired if they had recovered from the fatigue of their journey; then recommended them to the attention of Miss Ruthven, who would give them the benefit of her three years' experience as a pupil, until they should become accustomed to the school routine. 
               When they reached the study-room, they found Miss Maddalina the centre of attraction to those who, having completed their preparation for the morrow, were passing the time by amusing themselves at that young lady's expense. The little ones were in another part of the room, Mdlle. Euliac in their midst, busy with books, dolls and games, for this was a recreation evening. 
               "I have some lace to quill," said Margaret, "and if you will come and sit with me, I can give you the names of your future class-mates; with the others you need have no intercourse, unless you like, or take to patronizing the young fry, as some of our set do; but I never was particularly fond of children." 
               It was an animated scene, and its entire novelty was somewhat fascinating to those who had been unaccustomed to any other than quiet home-life. 
               "Maggie, we have brought Miss Maddalina Glorivina Smith, that you may initiate her into the mysteries of boarding-school life, this being her first appearance behind the scenes." 
               "Highly honored, Miss Contee; but, feeling incompetent to do the subject justice, I beg leave to decline in your favor." 
               "I suppose, then, I must do my best. Your friends will please pay attention; I have not the pleasure of knowing their names." 
               Maggie went through the ceremony of introduction-"Miss Isabel Lee, Miss Maude Allison." 
               "And I," bowing low, "am Kate Contee; your friend and well-wisher, if it so please you. These young ladies belong to my staff, my very good colleagues-Blanche Carroll, the belle of the school; May Kennedy, our good girl; Sadie Saville, the genius par excellence; and last, not least, Eliza Everton- 
                      
                        'Who never was known to sigh, 
                        Has never learned how to cry, 
                        And couldn't keep out of a scrape if she'd try.' 
                     
                   I hope you are fully sensible of the privilege you enjoy, by being thrown into such illustrious society!" 
               "I am so overwhelmed that words cannot express my gratitude," said the amused Isabel. 
                
               "Why, that's as it should be. I see I shall not want for aid in cases of emergency. I thought your eyes were too bright to be blind-, to our manifold perfections. Now for my newest pupil! In the first placer Miss Smith, your name must be somewhat shorn of its fair proportions; Maddalina Glorivina may do for Sundays, but we could not take time for it on week-days; so, in the presence of these witnesses, I pronounce you Mad, or Glory, whichever you prefer." 
               "Indeed, then, I'm no more mad than the rest of you, and if you can't call me by my right name, you needn't call me at all;" and the young lady drew herself up with an air of insulted dignity. 
               "We will waive the subject for the present," said the undaunted Kate; "we have graver matters to discuss. Let me inform you, as a preliminary, that you have commenced your career by seriously offending our Principal. Were you not aware that extra preparations had been made in honor of your arrival? And to think you refused to come and partake of the feast!" 
                
               "Had you anything extra because I come, sure enough?" and looking around with a patronizing air, "What had you?" 
               "Butter on our bread." 
               "Butter! Law-sakes, you don't call butter a rarity, do you?" 
               "Of course," replied Kate, seriously. 
               "For-ever! What would pap say to that?" 
               "I am very benevolently inclined, otherwise I shouldn't undertake to enlighten you. Not one of these young ladies dare attempt it," and Kate waved her hand toward the laughing group around her. "I must premise, secondly, Miss Mad-hem! Miss Smith, that you will be awakened before you can see, by the loud ringing of a bell." 
               "What for? I can wake, myself, when I git ready, and I shan't budge until I do-that's so!" 
               "In that case you would be locked in your room, and fed on bread and water for a week; I shouldn't advise you to try it." 
               Miss Smith's mouth, by this time, was almost as wide open as her eyes. 
                
               "You will dress with all speed, descend to this room for study until eight o'clock, when, upon, the ringing of a second bell, you will proceed to the 'salle  manger.'" 
               "Sallie who? Is she one of the scholars?" 
               "To the dining-room-excuse me for thinking you spoke French. You will eat your French roll-do not ask to be helped twice, it is not genteel; sip your coffee-never take a second cup; and when Mrs. Howard rises, you, having finished, will rise also." 
               "But suppose I haven't had enough to eat?" 
               "Such a supposition among young ladies of refinement is not to be entertained for a moment." 
               "You'd better believe I didn't come here to be starved; and what's more, I ain't going to be-aristocracy or not; I'll go home first!" 
               "After that," continued Kate, in undisturbed serenity, "you can amuse yourself as you wish until recitation-hour, when you will probably be sent to Mrs. Howard, who will ascertain your proficiency and assign you to your classes." 
                
               Maddalina looked perplexed, then ventured to ask, "How will she do it?" 
               "Ask you a few questions merely." 
               "Oh!" in a relieved tone, "she can ask as many as she likes; I'm no ways disobliging." 
               "Do you think you will be prepared with answers?" 
               "Certainly; why shouldn't I?" 
               Only because the subjects will probably be somewhat abstruse; referring to 'Conic Sections,' 'Entomology,' 'Topography,' 'Zography,' winding up with 'Ethics' and 'Newton's Principia!' After which-" 
               "There, that'll do-that's enough, without putting any witches to it. If Mrs. What-d'ye-call-'em thinks I come here to talk about such outlandish nonsense, she is mistaken-that's all." 
               "Kate, you carry a joke too far; I don't see what pleasure you can take in being such a tease; do let the poor girl alone," said Margaret. 
               "Who are you calling poor?" said Maddalina, greatly excited. "I'll let you know my pap's got as much money as any body in this place;" and if looks of superb disdain could have annihilated Miss Ruthven, she would have shrunk into nothingness straightway. 
               "I beg your pardon, Miss Smith, for supposing that you needed my sympathy; I will interfere no further." 
               "That is what you have to expect from Mrs. Howard," said Kate, more merciless than before. "But if you do not call for pity when Professor Ernest Sutherland comes on the stage, then I am much deceived. Why, we girls are afraid to look to the right on to the left, and never think of breathing without permission when he is about, so much do we stand in awe of his highness." 
               "Is he a giant?" inquired Maddalina, somewhat intimidated. 
               What a burst of laughter there was! The little ones paused in the midst of their play; and one, more venturesome than the rest, came to see what was so amusing to the seniors. 
               "I don't see any thing to laugh at," said the aggrieved Maddalina; "but I suppose it's manners here." 
                
               "We stand reproved," said Kate; "excuse us, and we will endeavor to maintain our gravity in future." Then, spying the little intruder, who looked on with wondering eyes, "Pray, what are you doing here, Ida Rivers? I shall report you to Mrs. Howard for being out of bounds without leave. You had better go back to your own dominions, if you know when you are well off." 
               Quickly the little girl glided in among the group, until safely ensconced between Margaret and Maude. 
               "I'm in my own dominions now, Miss Kate I belong to Miss Maggie, so you can't catch me this time." 
               "Wait until to-morrow, you little monkey! Maggie spoils you, until you begin to fancy yourself equal to Mrs. Howard." 
               "I wish I was Mrs. Howard; I know what I'd do for Miss Kate Contee." 
               A warning hand was laid on the rebellious lips, and Maggie whispered, "Take care, darling, do not say any thing that we should both be sorry for." 
                
               The children's bell sounded, and somewhat diminished the number of Miss Contee's auditors. Maude and Isabel, weary and sad, were glad to avail themselves of permission to retire early; and Margaret Ruthven took away little Ida, who shared her room, and had been placed under her especial care at the request of her mother, who was seeking health in a sunnier clime. 
               Ida was a joyous spirit. Her ten years of life had been all brightness; all thoughts of her home, where no shadow yet had fallen, were associated with the beautiful; for Ida was an artist's child. A little graceful figure, ever in motion; a face brightened by rare intellect; eyes, of soft, dark blue; hair of raven blackness, and a voice like a wood-bird's, clear and joyous-songs were often upon her lips, keeping time to the heart's glad music. She paused with Margaret at Isabel's door; but when "good night" had been said, she went back and whispered to Maude, "May I kiss you? You put me in mind of papa; he is away over the sea, with my dear mother who has been sick so long." 
                
               Maude kissed more than once the little upturned face. "Good night, little Ida-it was my mother's name. I must love you, because of this; may the Good Father watch over yours and bring her to you, safe and well!" 
               "Where is your mamma?" she whispered. 
               "With the angels," said Maude, with a quivering voice. 
               The child looked wonderingly upon the earnest speaker, as though she but half comprehended her meaning; then, obeying Margaret's summons, went away. 
               She was very quiet, but her last waking thoughts were of those parting words, and in her dreams, the faces and voices that she loved were strangely blended. 
               An hour passed; light after light was extinguished, until darkness reigned, and sleep, like a blessing, came alike to the gay and sad-hearted in the old house, where, beneath the watchful care of Mrs. Howard, so many mothers' idols were nestling. Alas! light-hearted dreamers, that the world's lessons should be conned, and the world's vanities allure you! Strange to mark your varied paths in life-sad that some should bear so heavily the cross, ere they could hope to win the crown! 
             
             
                
               VI. The Soire. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Rows of liquid eyes in laughter, 
                        How they glimmer, how they quiver! 
                        Sparkling one another after, 
                        Like bright ripples on a river." 
                     
                      
                        "Yet oft in his marble hearth's bright glow, 
                        He watched a picture come and go; 
                        And sweet Maud Mller's hazel eyes 
                        Looked out in their innocent surprise." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               IT was the evening of the annual soire. Lights flashed throughout the entire building, and from room to room flitted girlish figures; some with hair unbound, floating about them; others with elaborate braids or flowing curls, pronounced by their particular admirers to be perfect. 
               Among those who were to take no active part in the evening's entertainment, Isabel and Maude had no share in the animated discussions over ribbons, flowers, laces and jewelry. Ida Rivers, who was to sing a ballad, went restlessly from her own room to theirs, singing over in a low tone sweet snatches of song. 
               "I do wish Miss Maggie would come up; it is getting so late, and my hair is not touched yet." 
                
               "Where is she?" inquired Isabel. 
               "Reading her essay to the Professor; she wanted to be sure of it, she said. But I do wish she would come." 
               "Suppose you let me dress you," said Maude. "Do you think Miss Ruthven would object?" 
               "No, indeed; she would be very glad, and so should I. But are you sure you have time?" 
               "Quite sure. I hare only my dress to put on; it is too soon for that yet." 
               "How nice! I am all ready but my hair and dress. See! I tied on my shoes just now," and she put out a little white-slippered foot for inspection. 
               "You'll have trouble with my hair, though; it always curls wrong when I want it to be right. Sometimes I have a great mind to ask Mrs. Howard if I may have my curls cut off, but I am afraid mamma would be sorry. She used to like my curls." 
               "You must not think of it; I think I can manage them very well. There is nothing like trying, you know." 
                
               It was not long before the simple toilet was completed; the short curls, in the right place this time, silken and soft; the white dress fell about the little figure like a fleecy cloud, the sleeves were knotted with rose-colored ribbons, and a broad sash of the same about her waist. 
               "Oh, how kind you are! I wish mamma could see how nice you have made me look! I shall tell her all about it when I write! Ah, there is Maggie, at last!" and she opened the door. "Look! I am all ready; isn't it good you haven't to be bothered with me?" 
               "Why, so you are! What good fairy found you out, Cinderella?" 
               "Miss Maude. She was afraid you might not like it-do you?" 
               "Indeed, I do. I am deeply indebted. I haven't seen you look so trim this many a day." 
               "If Miss Maude still feels charitably inclined, she may try her fairy wand On my pate. I have a wonderful crop," letting her hair fall from the comb; "a wonderful crop, but it needs a master-hand to work it!" 
                
               "Come in, then," said Maude, laughing. 
               "I'll give you a famous recommendation, if you ever want to go to service," said merry Kate Contee; for it was she who had come in search of Margaret. 
               "Hand me a chair, girls, and let me give vent to my overwrought feelings. I'm not equal to another effort else. I've been assisting in the beautifying of the Maddalina-and oh, to think of the vision that will greet Mrs. Howard's astonished optics! I never came so near dying, as when she asked if any body in this establishment could beat that? I could truly answer, Never! She is gorgeous to behold!" 
               "How is she dressed, Miss Kate?" 
               "You here? "Little pitchers ought to be dismissed the service; I am morally opposed to them." 
               "It's not your room," began Ida. 
               "There, child, don't answer back, or I shall be tinder the painful necessity of having you put to bed. But mind, if ever I hear of your repeating any thing I say, I'll-serve you as the wolf did Red Riding Hood; so take care of yourself!" 
               "Can't you give us an idea of Miss Smith's appearance?" interrupted Isabel. 
               "'Oh, would some power the giftie gie us!'" said Kate, with upturned eyes and lifted hands. "Miss Smith is at present brilliant in a flame-colored silk, embroidered richly in all the colors of the rainbow, forming all the flowers of the garden, to say nothing of numerous butterflies and humming-birds disposed at intervals!" 
               "For shame, Kate! What an example you do set Ida!" 
               "Facts, Maggie, arc stranger than fiction. This wonderful dress, she informs me, was 'exported to order,' as were its accompaniments. Lace is quilled around neck and sleeve; a blue sash with edge of gold fringe; gold watch and chain; rings to the first joint on every other finger; several bracelets on each arm; diamond ear-rings and necklace; hair more deeply, brightly red, curled  la corkscrew, surmounted by a wreath of huge red roses; white kid gloves, with gold fringe at the top; slippers with buckles, bows and fringe to match, and you have the tout ensemble of Miss Smith in all her brilliancy. Mrs. Howard has forbidden jewelry, as I told her, but she put no faith in my declaration." 
               "You need not wonder at that, after last night's quizzing." 
               "'Where ignorance is bliss!' Miss Lee," laughed Kate. "But I am not wicked enough to wish her to be made ridiculous this evening. Somebody ought to interfere." 
               "I will go and speak to Miss Wilson," said Margaret. 
               The grand saloon was filled to its utmost capacity by the friends and patrons of the Institute. A fair sight were the young unclouded faces, and the graceful forms in their sunny robes. The memory of the scene and the sweet echo-tones of song were with them when that night was with the long past. 
               Maddalina, much to her own dissatisfaction, was obliged to change her attire; but she, always affirmed that it was owing to the
                   
                   
                     LETTER WRITING. Sea Drifts. p. 89. 
                  
                   jealous misrepresentations of those who feared that she would quite eclipse them by her splendor. 
               "Will you have these violets?" whispered Ida Rivers, parting them, as she spoke, from the bouquet of exotics some one in the audience had sent as a token of approval to the little singer. 
               "Do not spoil your bouquet, dear; I shall enjoy looking at them quite, as much there." 
               But she would not be refused, and pleased herself by fastening them among the folds of lace on Maude's dress-fitting emblems of the quiet spirit, already winning love from those around, and seeking to use aright the influence acquired over the little girl in whom she was strangely interested. 
               The day succeeding the soire was appropriated by most of the pupils to letter-writing. A long missive was penned by Maude and Isabel. "We will make it a joint affair," said the latter; you dictate and I'll scribble." So it was arranged, and submitted, as required, to Mrs. Howard for supervision, together with that of Miss Maddalina Glorivina Smith. 
                
               A striking contrast they formed, and so thought the Principal, as with the letters open before her, she turned for a second perusal to that of Maude and Isabel: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MOTHER DEAR-We have not forgotten our promise; in token whereof please receive No. 1, being the first of a series entitled 'Boarding-School Experience.' 
                           "We felt much like some other bodies instead of ourselves, after we dropped Harry at his Alma Mater, and came on our way with papa only. He has told you all about it, I am sure. But that was a pleasant sensation compared to our feelings when left in a large room, in the midst of a moving hive of girls, of all sorts and sizes, pretty, ugly, and good-looking. Mrs. Howard is very kind, gentle and lady-like; the teachers seem inclined to follow her example, and some of the girls, I think, we shall like very much. A new pupil, with a very formidable name, came just after we did. I scarcely know what to think of Miss Maddalina Glorivina Smith. Maude, who has a mantle of charity for every one, has discovered that she possesses a kind heart. So may it be! 
                           "Miss Margaret Ruthven, who has the room next to ours, we love very much; and Maude has taken to petting her room-mate, a bright, loveable, little creature-Ida Rivers. 
                           "Kate Contee, the leading spirit of mirth, is a general favorite, I am told. I can't help liking her, though Maude sometimes looks grave, and will not laugh at some of her mischievous pranks. Miss Carroll, a beauty; Miss Kennedy, Miss Saville, Miss Egerton, seem to be our principal class-mates. There are crowds of younger ones, good, bad and indifferent, and. our two precious selves. 
                           "The soire, a very brilliant affair, came off last night. Miss. Ruthven, distinguished for dignity and grace, read an original essay, which was like herself; Sadie Saville, a poem, likewise original. 
                           "There were many very creditable vocalists, but none to equal our little neighbor. The child has a glorious voice, and sings with heart and soul. 
                            
                           "We shall not commence our studies until Monday, so I can say nothing in reference to them at present. We are very comfortable and begin to feel more at home. Tell Bridget we found her jumbles very acceptable at lunch-time. 
                           "Maude sends her kind remembrances to Will Cameron; she will write to him soon. Tell the old chap to have the boats in prime order against the Summer-time, for I shall come with the June roses. Oh, how I long to be on the water again! Say to papa, that we are trying to forgive him for sending us from him; but, as it was necessary, I am glad the lines have fallen to us in such pleasant places. 
                           "Maggie Ruthven desires to be kindly remembered. Kate Contee wishes you to Bend an official dispatch, consigning us to her especial guidance. Little Ida says, 'Miss Isabel, please send my love,' and so say 
                           
                              "Your absent children, 
                              "MAUDE AND ISABEL."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Quite a pen-picture," was Mrs. Howard's comment; "no fear of being deceived in them, I think; but this specimen! I am really at a loss what use to make of it." It was addressed to the young lady's father, and was, to say the least of it, a curious orthographical, etymological and syntactical specimen: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR PAP-I don't think this going to skule is all it's cracked up to be. The guls is sassy, always pokin', fun at you, and think they no more'n everybuddy els. The teachers is mity hi, an' wun on' em they call the Proffessur has a long barde, an is more stuck up then enny ov 'em. The guls is all afrade of him, but I ges I ain't skared at no mortil creetur. I don't git half enuff to eat. Tell Mariar Ann to make a lot ov gingur snaps an send 'em along with plentee ov nuts an appels. She kin put sum rasbery tarts in tu if she's a mine ter. I ain't got no lessuns yit, an I ges I ain't a goin to spile my eyes a studdin. I want to pla the pianner an sing thoe. Sum ov 'em here is prime wuns at musick. 
                           "Don't furgit to send me sum more munney. I can't git a long with out a plentty. I wuddent keer if I had a nuther silk dres an' them korrul eer rings you prommussed me. 
                           "I don't no as I want enny thing els yit-so no more at pressent from yure dauter, 
                           
                              "MADDALINA G. SMITHEE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The writers of the foregoing epistles were summoned to Mrs. Howard's study. The letter of Maude and Isabel was returned, marked "Approved." 
               "Miss Smith, you will request Miss Wilson to furnish you with a dictionary; then re-write this effusion, which I should blush to have sent from this institution." 
               "I don't see nuthin' to blush about," said the self-satisfied young lady. "If I wuz to 'rite a weak I couldn't do no better." 
               You will nevertheless retire and follow my directions," said Mrs. Howard, in a tone which Maddalina dared not disobey. 
               Another-a child's letter-went in the next mail, across the ocean, and found upon Italia's shores those who eagerly watched its coming. 
                
               "I am glad our darling has found such a friend," the mother said, kissing the sheet where a little hand had rested whilst tracing those loving words. 
               "Strange, Gertrude, that Ida has not mentioned her name. I suppose we are to know her only as 'Miss Maude' for the present," and following his thoughts, almost unconsciously, a face soon looked forth from the canvass-a memory of one not seen since her bright girlhood, taking the expression of an ideal Maude-the Maude that Ida loved. 
             
             
                
                
               VII. Wise and Otherwise. 
                
                  
                      
                        I wish, and I wish the Spring would go faster, 
                        Nor long Summer 'bide so late; 
                        And I could grow on, like the foxglove and aster, 
                        For some things are ill to wait. 
                        I wait for my story-the birds cannot sing it, 
                        Not one, as he sits on the tree! 
                        The bells cannot ring it, but long years, O bring it! 
                        Such as I wish it to be." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               SEVERAL weeks passed, on, unmarked by any event to disturb the tenor of their lives by interrupting the routine of study. It was some time before Isabel became accustomed to the regular recitations. She had always found it easy to obtain a holiday when so inclined. By degrees, however, subduing what she called "natural laziness," she bade fair to attain the standard of excellence which her father so ardently desired. 
               The talents of Maude, not altogether unnoticed in their island home, were being rapidly developed. Her poetical fancies, rarely indulged in then, were now more frequently encouraged, but not allowed to come under notice of those around her. 
               She had been confined to her room for some days by a severe cold; and sitting alone in the evening, while the others were at tea, she had almost unconsciously written down the thoughts which had wandered to the sea-girt shore-to the sea which moaned ever in the winter nights-and to the treasures which it wrested from affection's keeping. 
               Memory's touch was on her heart, which thrilled sadly to the music of other days. She had ceased to write, and was dreaming waking dreams when Isabel entered. 
               "We are just going down to study. I wish I might stay with you. instead. What have you been doing-scribbling? I should think you had enough of that, with Miss Wilson's never ending 'Do not fail to hand in your theses, young ladies.'" 
               "'Under the Sea!' How you do hanker after old Ocean, Maude! If we should ever be so unfortunate as to lose you, I shall immediately employ a diver, expecting, to find you somewhere under the deep, perched on a coral bank. I'll just take 'this 'ere poetry,' as Miss Smith would say, and give you the benefit of my friendly criticism." 
                
               Away she went in merry mood, before Maude could offer any opposition, taking the poem with her. At night, when they were about retiring, Maude remembered her loss. 
               "Where is my brilliant effusion, Miss Lee? I want to put it in a place of safety; not that I think it of so much consequence, but I should not like it to fall into other hands." 
               "It has then, and very safe ones, according to my notions." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "Mr. Sutherland has it." 
               "Oh, Isabel, Isabel, how could you give it to him! Nothing would have induced me to treat you thus;" and the tears, which she tried in vain to repress, came in such a wild convulsive burst, that Isabel was almost frightened. 
               "Why, Maude, you little water-baby, what is there to make you cry like that? Any one would think you were rehearsing for twenty funerals! You'd be invaluable at an Irish wake!" Maude had no word of answer, but still sobbed on. 
               "I wish the Professor could take an observation vation now; he would think the salt, salt sea was moving hither sure enough. Maude, I can't stand it. If you don't stop, I shall take to crying myself, and you know that would be the death of me." 
               After a time, when composure was somewhat restored, Isabel explained that she had been reading "Under the Sea" to Margaret Ruthven, for the benefit of Sadie Saville, when the Professor came in quietly, and had heard nearly the whole, before she was aware of his presence. He asked the name of the authoress, a piece of information which was volunteered by Kate Contee. He then requested to look at the poem; and you know, Maude, I should as soon think of taking round-trip tickets to the moon as to refuse his lordly behests. I handed it over very meekly, and after a glance at the writing, he bowed in his stately way, and with a 'by your leave, Miss Lee,' cooly pocketed and walked off with it. I wonder who is the keeper of his conscience!" 
               "What shall I do?" said Maude in deep distress. 
                
               "Go to sleep for the present, and to-morrow I will call a council for consultation, as to whether we shall mutiny, or nab the Professor in the class-room and demand a surrender of stolen property. So go to sleep, like a good child." 
               Isabel found no difficulty in following her own advice. She was soon in the land of dreams, undisturbed by visions of the Professor or lost manuscripts. 
               Maude could not sleep, but tossed restlessly from side to side, until morning dawned, bringing no relief to her aching head. 
               "I cannot go down to-day. Please say so to Mrs. Howard, and ask permission for Ida Rivers to sit here this, morning; and Isabel, you must get that nonsensical writing back for me." 
               "Ho warn I to do it, pray? Point out the method, and I will serve you to the death!" 
               "I think Mr. Sutherland will give it to you, if you only ask him." 
               "Dear little innocent! Of course, I'll ask him. I'll make my lowest courtesy and say, 'If you please, Professor Sutherland, Miss Allison is dying for want of a short sojourn in the realms of Neptune. I am greatly at a loss how to meet the emergency of the case?' 
               "He, being extremely compassionate, will take the matter at once into consideration, and, drawing from the inside pocket of his coat (the side next his heart) that precious manuscript, will address me thus: 'I entreat you, Miss Lee, leave no effort untried to win her back to earth, and offer as a substitute for a sub-marine expedition, this, the purest pearl that ever saw the light!' I shall then fall on my knees, perhaps kiss his hand, and bless his kind heart, until he bids me rise, and, and-attend to my lessons!" 
               "Oh, Isabel, how ridiculous! How can you think of so much nonsense!" 
               "That is adding insult to injury. "What an ungrateful world! I have been putting myself out of breath and out of countenance for your benefit, and behold my reward! I depart in despair of ever being appreciated! Here is Ida. I resign you to her care." 
               "I said my lessons to Miss Wilson early, and Mrs. Howard said I might stay, if you wished, until my hour for practice-shall I?" 
               "I was just telling Isabel to ask for you. My head aches sadly, Ida!" 
               "I can take care of you; I know just what to do. Mamma used to have such terrible pains in her head-poor mamma, she has no Ida now!" She went out, but soon returned with a little vinaigrette filled with a strong aromatic essence, with which she bathed Maude's forehead; then smoothed the cover, shook up her pillows, put down the curtain, and whispered, "Now, try to sleep; I will take my book, and sit by you until you wake." 
               The quiet of the room, the subdued light, and the peculiar property of the essence seemed to have a soothing effect. Maude slept for several hours and awoke quite refreshed. She sat up in bed, bathed her face and hands in the cold water Ida brought, and declared that she was almost well. 
               "I wish papa could see you, Miss Maude; he could make such a beautiful picture of you. Your face is so white, except little pale roseleaves leaves just on your cheeks from sleeping; your eyes look so dark, they are more like purple than blue; and your hair is like gold threads, when the sun glances on it, falling all in waves. I wish you would always wear it in this way." Her little hands passed over the glossy tresses with lingering fondness. "I'll be so glad when you come down again, Miss Maude. When you are there, I remember what you say; but the girls tease me so sometimes that I get angry before I know. I wish I could be good all the time! You never forget-do you?" 
               "Oh, often, very often! We cannot remember without help." 
               "Who helps you? Mr. Ernest?" 
               "No, darling. None but our Heavenly Father can help us to do His will." 
               "I don't know what you mean! How can He think of little children? There are so many, and heaven is so far away!" 
               Then Maude told her of the Saviour's own words, "Suffer little children to come unto me;" of His love for the children, His great goodness and compassion for every creature. In simple words that the child well understood she told of the Babe of Bethlehem, born in the stable of an inn. She recalled for her the teaching's heard at her mother's side; and spoke of the child Jesus found in the temple, of His spotless life-His shameful death! Ida's eyes were fixed upon her; she listened almost breathlessly. She had heard of the story of the Cross, but never had it touched her heart till now. Maude saw that she was deeply moved, and hastened to tell her of the Resurrection, of the Ascension into Heaven, of the bright home prepared for all who loved this Saviour of the World. 
               "Oh, Miss Maude! I love Him! I can't help it; I am going to try to belong to Him, and please Him always!" 
               She put her arms around Maude and kissed her repeatedly, smiles playing about her lips, tears glistening in her dark eyes. Maude held her close, and placed her cheek fondly against the fair face, murmuring softly, "Of such is the kingdom of heaven." 
               A few days after, when she had resumed her place in school, she was startled by a summons to Mrs. Howard's sitting-room. She was surprised to find Mr. Sutherland there also. 
               "What has happened, I wonder?" and she tried to think of any omission of tasks or infringement of rules that could be traced to her. 
               Mr. Sutherland rose, handed her a chair, with as much respect as if she had been an honored guest. Such was his manner. Dignified, reserved yet affable, courteous to all, he, in turn, exacted and secured from his pupils unwavering attention and universal respect. 
               "Sit down, my dear," said Mrs. Howard, kindly. "You are still pale; I hope you have entirely recovered." 
               "Quite, I thank you," said Maude, mentally debating whether she had been summoned for the purpose of ascertaining the exact state of her health! She was not kept long in suspense. Mrs. Howard took from her desk a manuscript, which she handed to Maude. The poor child recognized it; her heart throbbed painfully, and her face could no longer lay claim to paleness. 
                
               "Mr. Sutherland informs me that this poem is said to have been written by you-is this true?" 
               A painful silence ensued; Maude wished that some benevolent agency would be employed in her behalf. 
               "I wait an answer, Miss Allison. I asked a simple question, merely requiring a truthful answer." 
               "Truthful!" A chord in the sensitive heart was touched. The clear eyes met fearlessly the inquiring gaze of Mrs. Howard, and she replied without hesitation: 
               "Yes, madam, I wrote it; but," she continued, her face flushing painfully, "I never intended it to be seen. Isabel took it when I was sick, and-" she paused again. 
               "And I took the liberty of reading and retaining it, to be placed before Mrs. Howard. Is not that the correct statement?" 
               Maude said nothing, but ventured a; timid glance at the Professor. She met in return a gentle look, and the grave lips actually relaxed into a smile. 
                
               "You did perfectly right, sir; I thank you for it. Were you aware" turning again to Maude, "that a prize has been offered for the best original essay, to be awarded at the coming anniversary of our Literary Society?" 
               Maude had heard, but entertained no idea of competing for it. 
               "I wish you to do so. Revise and make a fair copy of your poem, that it may be handed in to the committee to-morrow afternoon." 
               Maude was, for a time, surprised beyond expression; then ventured a timid remonstrance, murmuring something. of having written only for pastime, and its not being worthy of attention. 
               "Allow me to be the judge, if you please. Have sufficient confidence in me, to believe that in every requirement I have at heart the best interests of my pupils. You are at liberty to retire." 
               Poor Maude gladly obeyed, and sought her chamber, looking more like a condemned culprit than one elected to honor. 
               Ernest Sutherland, Professor of Mathematics and Ancient Languages in the Howard Institute, enjoyed deservedly the entire confidence and respect of its Principal. He had been for years the sole dependence of others. There had been, as it were, no step from boyhood to manhood. Life's stern realities and conflicting interests were early pressed upon him. 
               Highly educated, possessing talents that fitted him for a high position, yet making sub-servient to a stern sense of duty and the necessities of others his own wishes, he gave up the scarcely entered career, which would have brought renown, and applied himself with energy to the new path, opened for him; and if there were hours when visions of what might Lave, been came sadly before him, the even calm demeanor of his every-day life gave no token thereof. No secret longings or unavailing regrets, were allowed to interfere with present duties, however homely they might seem. In the little world, of which he formed so important a part, he was counted grave and cold, almost to sternness; fixing a high standard, yet scarcely awarding a word of praise or encouragement, as he marked the struggles to attain it, A murmur of surprise, therefore, passed through the group near Maude that afternoon, when, at an exclamation of perplexity, he came to her side, and said gently: 
               "I appear to have brought about this trouble on you; can I be of any assistance, Miss Allison?" 
               "Thank you. I think I shall be able to do without," said Maude, in great confusion. "It is only that I am too impatient." 
               "Mr. Ernest, do help her, please," said Ida, who had kept close to her friend, instead of joining the little ones at play. "Some of the girls say it is to be copied so, and some say not; and among them, Maude can't tell what Mrs. Howard wants." 
               "I can assist you, then;" and he gave a few simple directions, which would enable her to complete her task without difficulty. Her face brightened perceptibly. She looked up to thank him, but he was leaving the room. 
               The buzz of voices grew louder: "He shows partiality;" "he has favorites;" "unfair-" and the first seeds of ill-will toward the unconscious girl were sown that day. The first suggestion, came from Miss Smith, who had felt uncomfortable for some time, knowing that Maude was cognizant of her attempts to deceive, not scrupling to copy sums, exercises, and compositions whenever opportunity offered. 
               Maude had need, then, and for weeks after, of her dauntless champion, Ida Rivers, who had much trouble, as she said, "not to forget to remember to keep her temper." Isabel had no such scruples, when the matter came to her knowledge one afternoon in Maude's absence; but sent cutting speeches right and left, throwing the rebellious party into consternation by threatening to acquaint the Professor himself with their conduct. 
               "I wouldn't be a tattler for no buddy, let alone a charity girl," said Maddalina, tossing her head disdainfully. 
               Isabel's eyes flashed; her checks were glowing with anger. "What do you mean by that?" she asked, rising and looking haughtily on Miss Smith. The young lady was silent; the girls, becoming greatly excited, anxiously awaited the issue. 
               "Will you explain yourself, Miss Smith, or shall I call Mrs. Howard to my assistance?" 
               "You may, if you like. I mean just what I said. Ain't she a charity scholar? Don't your father send her here to school? I heard her say myself she was going to be a teacher. Who is she, any how, I should like to know?" 
               "Who is she?" retorted Isabel. "Would you like to know? But, first, tell me, who Zeke Smith, tin-peddler, soap-boiler, and tallow-chandler, is? Tell me that, if you please?" 
               The girl's fed face blanched; she, bit her quivering lips; shook her head more violently than ever, and shrunk away, humbled and subdued. Isabel looked around defiantly upon the astonished group. 
               "If there are any more of you, who would like to know who and what Maude Allison is, I will, tell you. If there is a lady in the land, in whom all the noble virtues and graces of heart and mind are met; whose pure life, is a type of the purer soul-Maude Allison is her equal; we are her inferiors!" 
               "Isabel Lee, you are a queen; I respect you," said Kate Contee. "Let us shake hands. If we were boys, we would give three cheers for Isabel Lee and Maude Allison." 
               Isabel waited to hear no more; she hurried away, and shut herself in her own room, until she was calm enough to appear among them again. The subject was not alluded to in her hearing again; neither by look nor tone was the least disrespect ever again offered to Maude. Miss Contee gave it as her private opinion, publicly expressed, that the Maddalina was "squenched," and if she caught her playing off airs and graces with Professor Skeezics again, she would put him on the track of Ezekiel Smith, Esq., banker-alias Zeke. 
               A D. Skeesiszki, or, as he was familiarly known among the girls, "Anno Domini Skeezics," was Professor of Music; and it was equally well known that Miss Maddalina G. Smith was his especial dread and torment. The kind-hearted old man, not wishing to bring her into disgrace by complaining to Mrs. Howard, bore her impertinence in silence, until Kate Contee, armed with the memory of the man of "tin, soap, and candles," came to the rescue. 
             
             
                
               VIII. Prize Essays. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Mid thy surges cold, a ring of gold 
                        I have lost, with an amethyst bright; 
                        Thou hast locked it so long, in thy casket strong, 
                        That the rust must have quenched its light." 
                     
                      
                        "Then the sea answered: 'Spoils are mine' 
                        From many an argosy! 
                        And pearl-drops sleep in my bosom deep, 
                        But naught have I there for thee!" 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               THE meeting of the Pantologian Society of the Howard Institute was scarcely second in interest to the soire. The pupils were all allowed to be present, though a small proportion of them only were members. Among others Maude Allison was notified to be prepared to read her poem. 
               "I cannot; indeed, I cannot! I know I should fail! Oh, if I only could be excused! I wish some one would read it for me!" 
               "I would offer my services," said Isabel; "but if I attempt it, no one will be able to discern any poetry in it. Suppose you take pity on her, Maggie?" 
               "I would, gladly; but there is my own essay to be attended to, more is the pity." 
               "I wish I could do it, Miss Maude; but I'm so little!" 
                
               They were in Miss Ruthven's room. Ida had crept from her perch at the window, where Maggie had left her to prepare a lesson that had been a failure. The elder girls laughed merrily, much to her confusion; but Maude caught at the suggestion. Ida had a clear, musical voice, and, for one of her age, was a remarkable reader. Her love for Maude would enable her to accomplish much, that, under ordinary circumstances, she would not have attempted. She went back to her book somewhat abashed by the amusement she had afforded some of the party, little dreaming of the comfort stealing into the heart of the one she loved best. 
               That evening, after tea, Maude summoned courage to ask for an interview with Mrs. Howard. 
               "Certainly, my dear, you may come with me now; I shall be alone for half an hour." 
               Seated in the quiet sitting-room, made cheerful by a glowing fire, the curtains drawn, and the lamp burning brightly, Maude's courage nearly failed her. 
                
               "What can I do for you, my child? Has any thing gone wrong?" 
               "Nothing very wrong, ma'am, only I cannot read at the meeting, as you wish. I desire to please you, always; but I have never read in the presence of strangers, and I am sure I should fail to do you credit. I am sorry to be so foolish but I do not believe I should "be able to articulate." 
               Mrs. Howard looked at the downcast, blushing face, and knew that this was no affectation of timidity, but the humility of true genius. 
               "Do you think your friend, Miss Lee, would take your place?" 
               "Not Isabel, though she would gladly oblige, me; but I think, madam, if you would be so kind as to permit it, Ida Rivers would read much better than I." 
               "That baby! Miss Allison, you surprise me! You surely do not wish to bring ridicule upon the Society!" 
               "She is young, I know," said Maude, respectfully; "but we have read a great deal together, and I think, if you will allow the attempt, she will more than do the piece justice." 
               "I will agree to your request conditionally," said Mrs. Howard, after a few moments' consideration. "If, upon the eve of the meeting, she cannot give me satisfaction, you must read the poem yourself." 
               "In case that Ida fails, I will do my best. Oh, I do not know how to thank you for your kindness. I shall try more than ever to deserve it." 
               Mrs. Howard drew the fair girl nearer, looked wistfully into the wondering eyes, kissed the white forehead, then motioned her to go. But the memories called up from their hiding-place went not with her. On the glowing coals her eyes were fixed, but her thoughts were of another Maude, her own gentle child, who had early gone 
                      
                        "Unto that school, 
                        Where she no longer needed earth's protection, 
                        And Christ himself doth rule." 
                     
                   With a light heart Maude went to the studyroom room, and after the lessons were ended sought the little ones, Ida springing to meet her. 
               "That child is much to you, Mademoiselle; she is strange, don't you think?" said the French teacher. 
               "I think she is very affectionate, Mademoiselle; indeed, I expect all the little ones are," and she smiled on the joyous band, some of whom came near to hear what Ida's Miss Maude had to say. Miss Euliac shrugged her shoulders, spoke sharply to a restless little creature beside her, then, laying aside her work, commanded every thing to be put in order, as it was time to be in bed. 
               "I'm so glad I'm in Miss Maggie's room. I'm sorry for those girls, nobody ever kisses them good-night! Some of them, Bessie Hall and Lillie, lay awake and cry, thinking of their mother. They told me so." 
               "Mademoiselle takes care of them; she treats them kindly, Ida." 
               "Yes, I know; but it's not like having some one kind because they love you!" 
               "So you think somebody does love you, little birdie?" 
                
               "I think Miss Maggie does, a little; I hope you do, Miss Maude." 
               "I certainly do. But, Ida, I wish to know if you were in earnest this afternoon. Would you really like to read for me?" 
               "Would I? I would do any thing in the world for you." 
               "I shall try to thank you one of these days, my pet. If you really mean it, get up very early to-morrow, come and dress in my room, and we can have an hour down here before the others are up. Good-night-pleasant dreams!" 
               It was scarcely light, when a little white-robed figure tapped at the door. Maude was up, making a fire; they dressed without disturbing Isabel, and went quietly down to the study-room, already warm and pleasant. There, with Ida nestled close beside her, Maude for the first time spoke to her of herself-of the storm, the wreck; of her mother, and the kind friends she in her grief and loneliness had won. She told of the happy hours spent on the sea shore with Will Cameron; of the old man's lost darling, the bright-haired Bessie. Ida listened until her eyes were heavy with tears. 
               "And now, darling, you know why it is, that I think so often of the sea; but you will not speak of this to the girls; I could not bear it talked of idly. I want you to feel an interest in the piece you are going to read for love of me." 
               She was not mistaken in her pupil. Morning after morning found them there, reading together, until every word was as familiar to the child as the sound of her own name. She was, at last, allowed to read to Mrs. Howard, who was equally surprised and gratified. "I congratulate you, Miss Allison, and you, Ida, have accomplished a great deal for your friend; you must love her very dearly." 
               "Oh, I do; so very dearly, ma'am!" and the bright smile and trusting glance were all for Maude. 
               It is strange!" mused the lady. "What an influence this young girl seems to have acquired in a few short months! Margaret Ruthven, who rarely forms a friendship; Miss Wilson, who never before has spoken in such unqualified terms of praise of a pupil; Ernest Sutherland, grave and reserved; and now this little, wild, wayward Ida-alike own her sway. Her rule of action is evidently induced by the purest principles. I believe she is, as Miss Wilson says, that rare object-a truly consistent young Christian." 
               The all-important evening arrived. The audience was limited, consisting of the honorary members of the Society, a few prominent persons from the vicinity, and some transient visitors, among whom happened to be Dr. Lee and his son Harry. 
               Appropriate remarks in reference to the origin and progress of the Society were made by a distinguished stranger; the minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary; then followed the reading of original essays, with vocal and instrumental music in the intervals. Last upon the programme was Maude's poem. The President of the Society came forward and explained that, at the earnest request of the young authoress, one of her little school-mates was permitted to be her substitute. He begged leave to ask their indulgent hearing for Miss Ida Rivers. 
               A murmur of surprise passed through the assembly as the slight figure came timidly forward. The quivering lips and changing hue on her cheeks betokened her excitement. It is for Maude, she thought; and with one pleading glance at those before her, and a graceful inclination, she unfolded the paper, and fixed her thoughts upon her theme. Her voice gained strength, and after the first words were spoken, forgetting those around and thinking only of Maude, she seemed to embody the very spirit of the piece. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           Under the Sea. 
                            
                              Out on the deep the moonlight fell 
                              In soft and silvery sheen, 
                              And lines of light on the billows made, 
                              With drifting clouds between. 
                              A low, soft murmur seemed to greet 
                              The midnight watcher lone, 
                              Who paused on the stately vessel's deck 
                              To hear the strange, sweet tone. 
                            
                            
                            
                              It ceased. He longed once more to hear 
                              The voice ere he should sleep, 
                              And strove with questionings to wake 
                              The spirits of the deep. 
                              "What have ye hidden from mortal eyes, 
                              In ocean's dark, deep caves? 
                              Tell me what treasures, once of earth, 
                              Ye hold beneath the waves? 
                            
                            
                              "We know that the coral is bright and red, 
                              And pearls, by the divers brought, 
                              Gleam in the caskets of those we love- 
                              A strange spell-have they wrought. 
                              We know that many a vessel brave 
                              Has been seen in the homeward track; 
                              And we know how many have watched and prayed, 
                              Yet vainly, to welcome her back! 
                            
                            
                              "We know that the idols of many a home- 
                              The young, the brave, the fair- 
                              Have left us with naught of their beauty now, 
                              Save a tress of their sunny hair!" 
                              Then a voice made answer, low and soft 
                              As the music we hear in dreams; 
                              And a light on the waters softly shone, 
                              Yet dimmed the moon's pale beams. 
                            
                            
                            
                              "Would'st thou know, O mortal! (it said,) of me 
                              The wonders of the deep? 
                              Such treasures may ne'er be seen, I trow, 
                              By eyes that have learned to weep! 
                              Fair cities are ours, but fathoms below 
                              Thy floating home do they rise; 
                              With gates as fair as the pearls that gleam 
                              In the gates of Paradise! 
                            
                            
                              "The sailor who dreams of his native land, 
                              As the sail to the soft breeze swells, 
                              Thinks 'tis his mother's lullaby- 
                              The chime of our silvery bells. 
                              We roof with coral our beautiful homes, 
                              And spoils, from the upper world 
                              Deck our walls, where a banner of peace 
                              Unstained is ever unfurled. 
                            
                            
                              "And gems that have starlight hidden within 
                              We "bring for the crown of our queen; 
                              Her robes are glistening with tiny, pearls 
                              That broider her mantle of green. 
                              Yet sometimes a shadow falls e'en here 
                              When the distant thunder breaks, 
                              And down, floating down to our threshold, comes 
                              A sleeper whomever awakes. 
                            
                            
                            
                              "We know by the folded hands of prayer 
                              That they come from an earthly shore; 
                              And we softly kiss the pure white brows 
                              For those who may see them no more! 
                              There came, not many moons ago, 
                              One of these sleepers to me; 
                              It was a tiny form, whose face 
                              Speaks yet to my ear of thee. 
                            
                            
                              "A smile still parts the coral lips, 
                              The hair is like sunshine bright;- 
                              Knowest thou, mortal, whose is the home 
                              That has lost so pure a light? 
                              Tell, them, if thou may'st, we've laid it down 
                              In one of our fairest bowers; 
                              And tell them we've crowned the baby's brow 
                              With garlands of fadeless flowers." 
                            
                            
                              "Give back! give back! O treacherous sea! 
                              That treasure lost is mine!" 
                              But a mocking echo made reply, 
                              "Is mine, is mine, is mine!" 
                              The moon went down, but the stars still shone, 
                              And the sleeper awoke to know: 
                              He had only dreamed of her who slept 
                              In her ocean bed below! 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The last words died away, and the little reader sped back to her place, before the audience were aroused from the spell that seemed upon them. That expressive silence spoke more than any common token of applause-the homage of the heart. 
               They needed not to hear that the prize for the best original essay had been unanimously awarded by the committee to Miss Maude Allison. 
               She could scarcely credit it; and not until she met a glance from Mrs. Howard did., she go forward, as one in a dream. Bowing her thanks for the books her trembling hands could scarcely hold, she was turning away, when a word from the President detained her-"Miss Ida Rivers!" The little girl came, half surprised, half pleased to be standing there by Maude, smiling up into her face as a token thereof. 
               "I am commissioned," said the good old man, "by the Committee of Awards, to present this book to Miss Ida Rivers, as a token of their approbation. I hope, my little girl," laying his hand upon her head, "that you may live to be a good and useful woman. In all that you do, my dear child, seek not your own honor, but the approval of the Great Being, who will require an account of the use you may make of the talents He, has given." 
               Ida thought she must be dreaming; she scarcely knew whether to laugh or cry. Taking the book so unexpectedly presented to her, she looked around as if bewildered; then, upon the impulse of the moment, bent and pressed her lips to the hand that had seemed to invoke a blessing on her head, and flattered back in confusion to Maude. 
               A burst of applause echoed through the room, and friends crowded around to congratulate Maude and fondle Ida, who was half inclined to think, this one of the evenings of the fairy tales. 
               "When will you write a poem, Isabel?" said Dr. Lee, the next day, when he came to say good-bye. 
               "Just as if I were not a living poem! You will never be able to appreciate me, papa, nor Harry either! I see he is worshipping the bright, particular star that looks down upon the sea!" 
               "You see visions, Isabel," said that young gentleman, who had been asking vainly for an introduction to Miss Smith. "I shall have my revenge, though, and write; so look out, young ladies! I quite pity the victim of your prejudices." Then, in more serious mood, he talked to Maude of Will Cameron, whom he had seen at home a few weeks before. "He told me to say, that he felt sometimes as if all the waves had gone over him, but remembered your counsel, and tried to keep his eye of faith on Bethlehem's star. I suppose you understand, but it is worse than Greek to me. I shall tell him of your success. Had he been present, he would have fancied that you had talked of little Bessie, with a garland of fadeless flowers. Good-bye, Maude! May the Good Being, in whom you believe, keep you safe and happy." 
             
             
                
                
               IX. Sub Rosa. 
                
                  
                      
                        A dreary night! 
                        There is no stir, nor walking in the streets; 
                        And the complexion of the element 
                        Is proved like the work we have on hand." 
                     
                      
                        "Sin is like a shower which, ere we can get in, 
                        Into our conscience, wets us to the skin!" 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               SOME jealousy was aroused by Maude's success, and the public tribute which Ida had won. The little girl was subjected to numerous trials of her temper; addressed as "Naiad Queen," "Water Baby," and "Oceana." At first, she was tempted to retort angrily, but Maude's silence, when the tide turned upon her, was more effectual than a dozen lectures from Mdlle. Euliac, beginning and ending with "ces enfants terribles." "I can bear it," thought she, and finding after a few days that their sallies did not disturb her, the tormentors left her at peace. 
               Maddalina Smith, who extended her dislike of Maude to Maude's pet, contrived by many petty acts of tyranny to make the child as uncomfortable as she desired. Ida would not complain, but it was difficult to remain patient under such repeated annoyances. 
               "You will remain in this afternoon, Miss Ida Rivers; you have a mark for disorder!" 
               It was a half holiday, when the pupils were allowed to make purchases in the city, under the charge of a teacher. It was a great disappointment-Maude and Isabel had planned with her a surprise for Maggie Ruthven's birth-day. They were to take advantage of this afternoon to obtain their little gifts, intended as offerings on that day. 
               "I am sure I left my desk all right," thought Ida, as she lifted the cover;-an inkstand was overturned, and its contents trickling over books, papers and work. The poor little girl burst into tears. 
               "Send for its nurse!" said Maddalina, with a sneer. "Where's, its dear Maude?" 
               "Perhaps I shall answer as well," said Margaret Ruthven. "Now, Ida, what is all this about? Let me hear how you happen to be in disgrace?" 
               Ida explained as well as she was able. 
                
               Upon closer examination Maggie seemed to have new light upon the subject. "When did you write?" she inquired. 
               "I have not written to-day. I cut my finger, you know, and could not use my pen." 
               "Why is your inkstand out of its place, then?" 
               "I can't tell, I am sure. Why, it is not out of place! Look, Miss Maggie; here it is, with the top screwed on! Whose is this, I wonder?" 
               "Miss Smith, I believe this is your property. I heard you say, a few days ago, that it was the only one of the kind in school." 
               Miss Wilson was listening attentively. 
               "Somebuddy tuk it out of my desk, then," said the girl. "They had better, not let me ketch 'em at it, that's all." 
               "Ida Rivers, let me examine your hands!" said Miss Wilson. Ida obeyed, somewhat surprised. "Miss Smith, I will look at your's, if you please." 
               Miss Smith was about to make a hurried exit, but was ordered to remain. Ink stains were upon her fingers, dress, and even her handkerchief, proving her guilty. 
               Ida was released and Maddalina detained, falling thus into the trap so unkindly set for another. 
               "I'll have my revenge," she muttered. "I'll make you howl louder'. than you've ever done. yet, over your precious Miss Maude." 
               Ida ran away, terrified at the threats she could not understand. A few days after she was commissioned by Maddalina to borrow Maude's blotting-book. Miss Smith appeared to be in consultation with some of the more thoughtless and daring of the girls, a proceeding which boded no good. They were making rough copies of something that appeared to amuse them excessively, to judge from their half-suppressed laughter. Ida Rivers, moving restlessly from group to group, attracted thereby, was immediately pressed into service. 
               "Miss Maude is writing, and will want to use it herself; I don't like to ask her," said the child. 
                
               "Well, don't do it, if you want something dreadful to happen to Miss Maude," and Maddalina frowned threateningly. 
               Ida went reluctantly, asked for the book, obtained and brought it to the girls, then waited to see what was to be enacted. 
               "You may go now," said one; "when we want you again we will send for you." 
               Ida remained stationary. 
               "I wonder where Miss Euliac is," said the amiable Miss Smith. "I'll see if there is nothing better for Ida Rivers to do than to be here bothering us." 
               This had the desired effect. Ida left them, without further invitation. The little girl felt rather forlorn. It was a dismal rainy afternoon, forbidding all thought of out-door exercise. Maggie Ruthven and Isabel were engaged over their French translations; Maude was working out a problem-they could not be disturbed. She sat down in the broad window-seat of the school-room, pressed her cheek to the glass, and watched the rain-drops patter against the pane. Watching and thinking there alone, insensibly her thoughts wandered to the world of dreams. When she awoke, it was almost dark. She started up, frightened and bewildered. "Hush!" said some one. "What noise was that?" 
               "Only the rain and wind," returned another. 
               There was a moment's pause. Ida was about to speak, when she recognized a familiar voice. Terror kept her quiet! 
               "Be sure you come to-night, and if we don't have a jolly time, never trust me again." 
               "But suppose we are found out! Mrs. Howard would expel us!" 
               Ida was becoming excited. Maddalina and Blanche Carroll are up to mischief, thought she. 
               "Don't be skeered before you're hurt! If you want a good feast, come; if you don't, stay away." 
               But it seemed that the beauty was not proof against such temptation; for she said, at last, "I'll come." 
               "Bring Sadie Saville and May Kennedy along." 
                
               "May won't come, it's no use to ask her; she's one of the good ones, believes in keeping the rules and all that. There'll be enough of us without her." 
               "May-be so; only be sure you don't disappint me," and the elegant Maddalina went out with her friend, leaving Ida sorely perplexed. 
               "If I tell, it will get me into trouble; for that Smith girl will nearly kill me, or she will take her spite out on Miss Maude. I'll tell Miss Maggie as much as I heard, and she'll know what to do." 
               Maggie did not feel competent to decide; but, on reflection, thought it was better not to disturb Mrs. Howard, (who had been ill,) particularly as she could bring no proof of intended wrong-doing. 
               "I'll go to the Professor; he'll know what to do." Acting at once on the resolve, and taking Ida with her, she knocked at the door of his class-room. He looked surprised, rose, and waited to hear the cause of their coming. 
               "You will excuse me, Mr. Sutherland. I do not wish to inform against my school-mates; but I am afraid that something wrong is going on. I do not wish to annoy Mrs. Howard unnecessarily, but-feel it my. duty to bring the matter before some one in authority. Ida, tell Mr. Sutherland what passed this evening." Reluctantly she repeated the conversation, adding, apologetically, that she did not mean to listen, but was afraid to make a noise-the girls would have been so angry had they found her there. 
               "You have done quite right, Miss Ruthven. I shall consult Miss Wilson as to the best course to pursue. You need give yourselves no further, uneasiness." 
               At his suggestion, Miss Wilson went through the dormitories a second time, after lights were out. All was quiet; every thing seemed as usual. After watching until midnight, and thinking that Ida had perhaps been dreaming or mistaken, he threw himself upon a sofa iii the library and fell asleep. 
               He was awakened by piercing shrieks, as of some one in mortal terror. He rushed out, and following the sound, reached the upper hall. What a scene of confusion! White-robed forms flying as in fright! The little ones, suddenly awakened, joining the mele; and above all, the cry of "fire!" rang through the building. He reached the door, of Miss Smith's room, from which the smoke poured in volumes. 
               "Be composed, young ladies; there is no serious cause for alarm. Bring your water-pitchers quickly and quietly." 
               Cool and self-possessed, the very tone of his voice seemed to reassure the trembling girls. The curtains were in a blaze, and the flames had extended to a portion of the wood-work. Fortunately the fire had been discovered before any serious consequences ensued, and it was soon extinguished. Turning to make inquiries as to its origin, he found Mrs. Howard looking in amazement on the scene. 
               On the floor, and partly under the overturned table, were the remains of a midnight-feast-meats, tarts, jellies, and confectionery, in strange proximity; broken plates, glasses, and even the fragments of a wine-bottle, scattered upon the carpet! 
                
               "Can any one tell me the meaning of this? Who occupies this room?" 
               There was no answer. The terrified girls pressed nearer to each other, as if to borrow courage. 
               "Miss Smith, Miss Egerton, Miss Carroll, Miss Contee, and, is it possible, Miss Saville! I see you are in your usual dresses. I presume, therefore, you are the only ones concerned in this disgraceful proceeding!" 
               "The rest of 'em run," said Maddalina. 
               "Whom do you mean by the rest?" 
               "I mean a half dozen; some of the precious good ones. Ask Maude Allison." 
               "Shame! Shame!" murmured some of the less hardened. 
               "Let Miss Wilson be summoned!" 
               "I am here, Madam." 
               "Miss Wilson, I am, as you are aware, utterly unfit to bear such excitement. You will be so good as to take these young ladies under your charge, allowing them no communication with their companions. Mr. Sutherland, your presence of mind has probably saved us from a terrible fate. I trust I shall ere long be better able to thank you. We will turn the key, for the present, on this scene of disorder. To-morrow I will investigate the matter." 
               There was little sleep after that; the culprits were too much in awe of the sentence that might be passed on them; and the innocent could not throw off the effect of sudden fright and excitement. Maddalina Smith alone braved it out. "I don't see no use in crying over spilt milk. I never cross a bridge till I git to it. If you'll all stand by me, you'll find there's no great harm done. I haven't never heered it was a crime to have a little something good to eat." So saying, she stretched herself on Miss Wilson's bed, and was soon snoring energetically. 
               The morning meal was taken in silence, and with but little appetite; the party in Miss Wilson's room not making their appearance. 
               The bell for the opening of school had an ominous sound. The girls filed in quietly with serious faces. There was no laugh or jest to call forth rebuke. 
                
               Mrs. Howard was on the platform, with the teachers upon either side. The roll was called as usual, but all thought of the absent ones with anxious hearts. 
               "You will remain in your places, young ladies, and for the present lay aside your books. There will be no recitations to-day." 
               A pause-of breathless silence; then anxious glances turned toward the open door. A group of girls entered with Miss Wilson, and took their stand in front of Mrs. Howard. 
               "I wish, young ladies, to have an explanation of the occurrences of last night. Never has my long experience as a teacher furnished a similar disregard of propriety, and of the respect due from you to one who has not played the tyrant, but has striven ever to be to you a friend as well as a teacher. I find, that the scene of your revelry was Miss Smith's apartment, from which I infer that she was your leader-which, if it be true, is flattering neither to your minds nor hearts.. If any others are implicated, I hope they will be honorable enough to avow it. I do not wish the innocent to suffer; neither do I intend the guilty to escape." 
               Not a word, not a movement, in response. Maddalina looked around boldly and defiantly. "Plenty of 'em wanted to come, but they were afeared to try it. Most all of 'em was invited. You can ask Maude Allison if they wasn't." 
               All eyes turned on Maude, whose face flushed with surprise at this unlocked for appeal. 
               "Miss Allison will take her place upon the stand." 
               Margaret Ruthven rose, but, at a sign from Mrs. Howard, resumed her seat. Maude went up and stood as requested, facing her accuser. 
               "What have you to say, Miss Allison, in answer to this charge? Is it true or false?" 
               An expression of pain passed over her face; for a moment she hesitated, then, raising her clear truthful eyes, replied: "It is partly true. I knew that something of the kind was intended, but-" 
               "Of course she knew-didn't she help with the invites?" interrupted Maddalina. 
                
               Mrs. Howard looked from one to the other; then turned to Mr. Sutherland: 
               "This matter is more serious than I supposed. Will you oblige me by examining the papers in each young lady's desk?" 
               It was not a very pleasant task, although a necessary one. 
               He came from the search, with one or two torn notes, several sheets of paper with invitations partly written, and a blotting book. Upon the leaves of the latter, was legible the following impression: 
               "Maddalina Smith's room to night at 11 o'clock, Do not fail to come. You will meet M. Ruthven, Kate Contee, Isabel Lee, and Maude Allison. 'Be secret and sure' is the pass word." 
               "Who owns this book?" and Mrs. Howard held it up for inspection. There was no need, for at the moment she saw the name full and clear upon the cover-" Maude Allison." It dropped from her hand! There was a troubled look in her eyes! 
               "Miss Allison," she said, "I would have trusted you among a thousand. In whom can I believe?" 
               Maude, was overcome with surprise and grief. She hid her face in her hands and wept. 
               "I can't stand this," whispered Isabel to Margaret. I shall choke-either myself or somebody else." 
               But another champion came forward. 
               "Miss Maude didn't write that. It's her book, but they borrowed it. I got it for them, Miss Maggie knows;" and Ida Rivers, emboldened by loving sympathy for the wronged and innocent, stood looking eagerly at Mrs. Howard. 
               Miss Ruthven was called up, gave in her testimony, which was corroborated by Mr. Sutherland and Miss Wilson. The examination went on. Maude was honorably acquitted; together with Miss Saville, who was found among them, having just reached the room in search of Miss Contee, whom, on waking, she missed from her side. Miss Contee explained, that she herself had been with them but a few moments, attracted by curiosity to see the fun! She had no part in the plot. She acknowledged having done wrong in encouraging them by her presence; and regretted not having attended to Maude, Allison's warning, who knew of the intended party, and threatened to report the girls, when they promised to give it up. The spirit of revenge, and jealousy of Maude's influence, prompted Miss Smith to involve her, if possible. Miss Contee farther attested, that Maddalina had mounted a chair to reach something from a shelf, just as Miss Saville opened the door; the sudden draft moved the thin curtain, which, coming in contact with the flame of the candle held by Miss Smith, was instantly in a blaze, Terror had paralyzed them, and until Mr. Sutherland came no effort had been made to extinguish it. 
               After a few words of admonition to the school, and a kind and affectionate appeal to them all to be more than ever careful in their friendships; in their thoughts and actions, which were ever open to the All-seeing-eye, Mrs. Howard gave orders to have Miss Smith locked in her own room, until the arrival of her father. The other girls were to remain with Miss Wilson, until further notice. 
               "I guess pap ain't going to stand this. I'll make him take me hum, and glad enough I'll be to git rid of the hull consarn." 
               "Silence, Miss Smith!" Mrs. Howard's, sternly uttered command was not to be trifled with, and Maddalina went away without further parley. 
               For several days, while the fate of their companions was uncertain, the girls moved quietly about, or clustered in groups, talking in saddened tones. 
               At the end of a week the banished ones, with the exception of Miss Smith, resumed their places, subdued and penitent; and it was gladly understood that they were once more received into favor. 
               Mr. Smith had been requested to remove his daughter. He came-a plain, honest man, having her welfare at heart, and with great faith in Mrs. Howard's power to work an improvement Yielding at last to his earnest entreaty for one more trial, it was announced by Mrs. Howard that Miss Smith would remain, at the same time adding: "In token of my utter disapprobation of her late conduct, and her utter indifference to the grief of a fond, indulgent parent, she will be put upon strict limits for three weeks. She is not to be spoken to by a member of the Institute during that time, either in school or out of it. She is not to be admitted to the play-ground, or to take part in any manner in your recreations. Her desk will be placed apart, and any young lady known to have held communication, with her in any way whatever, shall herself come into like condemnation." 
               A deep concern was manifested by all, save the one most deeply interested. She tossed her head scornfully, with a low muttered "Who keers!" 
               "I am disgusted with wickedness for the rest of my natural life," said Kate Contee, after dismissal. "I intend to turn over a new leaf, and what is more, I'll try to keep it turned." 
             
             
                
               X. Letters from Abroad. 
                
                  
                      
                        "From the land of Summer and song-birds, 
                        Where storms do not darken the sky, 
                        But gladness and beauty, twin-sisters, 
                        By sunbeams, count hours as they fly- 
                        I remembered how fondly I watched, 
                        In hours too soon vanished from me, 
                        For a letter I knew must be coming, 
                        A letter from over the sea!" 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               "'APRIL showers bring May flowers mamma used to tell me, and true enough, here is one I found close by the fence, in my own little border. Miss Maggie, you must draw lots with Miss Maude for it." 
               "Not I, little chatterbox. I'm not over and above fond of flowers. Maude may have it." 
               "I'll put it in water; then we can all look at it. I wonder what you do like, Miss Maggie-if it's not flowers, nor birds, nor sweet things, nor children?" 
               "She likes-parrots!" answered Kate Contee. 
               "Why, they are noisy, Miss Kate." 
               "So they are! especially when people are trying to read, write, or meditate." 
               Ida smiled and blushed-she understood, and contented herself with the arrangement and admiration of her flower, until some one should be sufficiently at leisure to listen to her. 
               A glad voice was heard in the hall. "Letters! Letters! Miss Wilson is distributing the mail!" 
               Books and pens were hastily dropped. Isabel, Margaret and Ida quickly obeyed the summons, hopeful and happy. 
               How many fond associations cluster about a letter! The messenger of the loved and absent; the page where the hand that has clasped our own in love; the fond words traced thereby, bringing their weight of affection, over leagues of land and sea; the name, which looks up at us from the last, least space in the corner; how much joy have these simple tokens power to awake-joy, and yet, sometimes, it may be sorrow! It is often with trembling, doubtful fingers we break the seal, that shuts, in, perhaps, a tale of sadness, change or death. Missives of gladness, or messengers of sorrow, they are alike held sacred, laid aside with reverent touch among our treasures; yet doomed, perhaps, to be idly scanned in coming days by eyes that never met our own, closed then in dreamless sleep. Thoughts like these were Maude's, as she sat alone, waiting the return of the girls. They were not long away, but came back radiant with happiness. 
               "Letters for all! Here is yours, Maude," and Isabel tossed a package to her. 
               Maggie had one from her mother, and Ida waited, with what patience she could command, to have hers opened. "It's a foreign one," she said, turning it over and over, ending by kissing it, as if the covering were a part of those from whom it came. 
               Maggie took pity on her and broke the seal. "Two!" cried Ida, dancing first on one foot and then on the other. 
               "Not yours, though," young lady. "See! one is addressed to Miss Maude." 
               "Why! isn't it funny?" laughed Ida, after the letters had been read and re-read. "Isn't it funny? I never told papa Miss Maude's other name! Is your letter from him?" 
               It was-a kind, friendly note, thanking the young lady, in his own and his wife's name, for her kindness to their little daughter. It was dated at "Rome." How the word thrilled upon Maude's ear-the name of that proud city of the past! Her waking dreams were often of those Old World cities, which she so longed to visit; yet which, perhaps, she must die without seeing. 
               "I must tell them all about you next time I write," prattled Ida; "and oh! Isn't' it nice? I am to go home with you. Miss Isabel made me write to ask if I might. Won't it be grand?" 
               "I hope it will be very pleasant, darling." 
               Letters from two gentlemen in one day! That's pretty well, Miss Allison. I've a suspicion that it's my duty to inform Mrs. Howard of your goings on." 
               "Do," said Maude, smiling. "Suppose read her the letters, Isabel." 
               "Hem! I haven't the time to spare just at Present. Here's my document. Mamma is so much better. She has been driving out every pleasant day. That's the best news yet." 
                
               "How glad I am! I always felt as if she would be well again." 
               "Great is your faith! I should like to beg, borrow or steal a portion. How slowly the days pass! I'm weary for a look at my mother's face." 
               "I don't wonder-it would be a glad sight to me. I forgot to show you my letter; it is from Will Cameron." 
               "I'll read it with the greatest pleasure, but I won't promise to do so understandingly. Will is rather a curious correspondent." 
               "I'm but a poor scholard, Lady-bird," it said, "and it may be I can't clearly speak my meaning. I'm not the man I was, and I felt a hankering after some words from your lips as the sailor for the beacon light in a stormy night. I'm getting all together unseaworthy, and no patching will make me the craft I can remember. I want to thank you for your teaching-for the door your little weak hand opened, that I might see heaven shining through. 
                
               The Bessie' is hauled up, the nets are idle, and I do little most days but look Out toward the sea, watching and waiting. Thanks to you, Miss Maude, it's well with me in the first watch or the last, in the storm and in the calm. I put my trust in the Great Captain. 
               "Dr. Lee conies to see me; sometimes he reads a chapter, which I take kind of him. He tells me you are coming soon, you and Miss Isabel. Like the face of rae from our own country, when we are in a strange land, will your two bonny faces be to me. 
               "I pray now every night, but before I sleep I look out the last thing on the sea, and up to the stars which hide my Bessie's home from mine, and whisper softly, 'God keep and love my Lady-bird!'" 
               "Maude! what spell have you, what talisman, to charm even that rough old chap to gentleness? What is there to make people love you so?" 
               "Only a few people do love me, Isabel!" 
               "Every body I know does, Miss Maude; except cept Maddalina Smith, and you needn't care for her-she's hateful." 
               "Don't say that, Ida. I'm very sorry for her." 
               "And I," said Margaret. "I never had a more difficult task than to obey Mrs. Howard's injunctions. How much longer is she to be banished?" 
               "Until to-morrow only," said Isabel. "She has twenty-one marks on a sheet of paper; every day she cancels one. I heard her mutter yesterday, 'Only one more.' I expect her tongue will do double duty when it, lias permission to wag again." 
               Very little gratitude for their sympathy did she show; and very coldly were their kind overtures received, when, the allotted time having expired, Maddalina was allowed to come among them again. 
               She consoled herself for her humiliation by ordering from the city a most expensive dress, to be worn at the public exercises at the close of the year. In these, however, she took only an ornamental part, "shining out," said Master Harry Lee, "like a sun-flower in its noon-tide glory." 
               There were mingled smiles and tears when the parting came. Some were leaving to return no more. It was no light thing to part the links that had formed so bright a chain. 
               "How strange it will seem next year without you, Maggie!" said one of the group, who had come to her room, professedly to help to pack, but in reality for a good-bye talk. 
               "It will be very lonely for me," she replied. "You know I am one by myself; not a brother nor a sister to make it pleasant. I shall watch for your letters, and look forward to those promised visits in the holidays." 
               "You may count on me, dead or alive," said merry Kate Contee. 
               "I'll excuse you in the former case. I've no particular fancy for a spiritual visitation." 
               "What am I to do, Miss Maggie?" 
               "I take great comfort, Ida, in knowing that you will be cared for. Mrs. Howard will change Maude's room, and you will be with, her and Isabel." 
                
               "I'm so glad I'm not to be sent back to Mlle. Euliac; we don't get on very well together." 
               "I dare say mademoiselle will be quite as well pleased to be rid of you. But you must keep in mind that I shall have an eye on you, young lady; and if I catch you idling, teasing, and prying, I'll not let you off as easy as Miss Maude would. I'll attend to your morals!" 
               "You must teach by example, as well as by precept, then, Kate," Margaret said. 
               "I shall be a model of decorum!" returned the laughing girl. 
               The examination was over. Anxious hopes and fears no longer disturbed the light-hearted maidens. The ordeal was triumphantly passed by some, who were, in consequence, publicly distinguished. Conspicuous among these was Margaret Ruthven. She went forth into a new world, with her honors thick upon her; leaving the bright scenes of happy childhood, with its careless freedom, to learn of life other lessons; to find that deepest shadows fall oft upon brightest waters, chasing the sunshine with the storm. 
               One after another they left the deserted school-room; group after group passed through the portal homeward bound. The teachers followed. They, too, were watched for; eyes brightened and hearts beat more joyously for their coming. 
               Mrs. Howard was alone-alone with memory! Vacant places-lonely rooms-silent halls, which no longer echoed to light steps! A hush was upon the house, as if Death's angel had hovered over the threshold! 
             
             
                
               XI. Summer Holidays. 
                
                  
                      
                        "And after, when our footsteps were returning 
                        With unfelt weariness o'er hill and plain; 
                        How our young hearts kept boiling and burning 
                        To think how soon we'd be at home again." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               A SIGH of regret for those they were leaving, but more of joyous anticipation of the meeting in store, was in Isabel's heart, as their faces were turned toward home. Dr. Lee had extended a cordial invitation to Mr. Sutherland to visit them during the Summer. Harry promised him some fine fishing sport, boating, etc. The girls said nothing, but wondered if he would see fit to keep up his character of preceptor, in case he should come. Ida Rivers was a happy child; with her hand in Maude's, her eye reveling" on the beauty of the scenery through which they were passing, and her brightest smiles awakened by Harry's merry jests. Dr. Lee was deeply interested in the little girl, on whom he lavished caresses, until Isabel declared she was dying with jealousy. 
                
               On a bright June evening they reached Edgecliff. Every thing was in holiday trim, Isabel said, and she could not cease to marvel at the change in-her mother. 
               "To think of your being among us again, mamma, looking so well, is enough to make one wild with joy! It will be some time before I am quieted down, or realize that I am at home again, free from the dominion of bells, rules and rulers." 
               "It is well that I am at home," said Harry. "I shall keep you within bounds." 
               What a pleasant talk they had that evening! They talked of their school-mates, particularly of Miss Maddalina, to whom Harry said he had lost his heart; amusing his mother with a description of that young lady. 
               Then Ida was called to sing. "I want mamma to hear you" said Isabel. "She loves music, but I never was a singing bird." 
               The little girl sang, with unaffected grace, a touching ballad, that found its way to the hearts of her hearers. So ended the first happy evening-the evening to which they had looked forward ward, counting the days, the hours, and moments that lay between them and the holy shrine of home. 
               In the morning, Maude, taking Ida with her, went to see Will Cameron, as she had promised. The old man was growing feeble, "unseaworthy," as he said. His hollow cough fell painfully on the ear, and, in answer to an expression of sympathy from Maude, he said he was "drifting nearer to Bessie every day." He thought there were only "a few knots an hour" between them. 
               As the days grew warmer he rallied again, and would go down to the beach, while Ida played about him, filling her basket with shells, to be rejected as others were found that she thought more beautiful. 
               He even went with them to Newport, and, as the boat floated idly, told them legends he had heard from the old settlers, of those who hundreds of years ago had come from foreign parts and were wrecked off shore; and who, it was said, had built a fort or tower, no one knew for what purpose. It was moreover affirmed, that a skeleton in armor was dug up at its base, which the book-learned said was that of a Norseman. 
               A Summer long to be recalled was spent by the happy trio. Harry, Isabel's aid and abettor in every plan of amusement, seemed the embodied spirit of fun. Miss James, taking advantage of her sister's being at home, was making them a brief visit. It was Harry's special delight to recount in her hearing the sayings and doings of Howard Institute; embellishing the same, until Isabel herself failed to recognize scenes, in which she had taken, a prominent part. He particularly affected to admire the character of Miss Maddalina Smith, and shocked good Miss James by protesting that he had become enamored of the red-haired damsel. With grave face and tone he informed the governess that he had a confidential communication to make on the subject, trusting to her high sense of honor not to betray him. 
               "But, my dear Mr. Harry, you are so young; just think, only eighteen!" 
               "Nineteen, if you please, Miss James! I shall be nineteen next month. We are both young and can afford to wait; but, you see, I should like to secure her young affections before others can compete with me. I am about to submit to you a letter, which has cost me some thought and trouble." With a countenance of unmoved gravity, he read to the astonished lady an effusion, such as she had never heard. 
               "Most excellent, most fair, most accomplished Maddalina Glorivina! May an humble admirer of your sterling charms and brilliant talents dare to address you in sincere respect? May he venture to hope, that as a pure star sheds its impartial beams even upon the smallest stream, even so you will shine upon him? Life is for both still in its spring time, and for the present I but ask to be written with' your friends. I ask only to be allowed to read the pages of your fresh and unsophisticated heart; to share with you the same pleasures derived from the pursuit of knowledge. Let me be but assured that I hold communion with a kindred spirit, one that can soar with mine above the dull realities of earth, and, as the poet has it, 'stand upon the Alps, stand on the Apennines, and with the thunder talk as friend to friend.' 
               "Allow me to hope that a correspondence may not be disagreeable to you, as in that event it shall be my pleasure, as my duty, to obtain for this the consent of your honored parents." 
               "I will leave it with you, Miss James, for consideration; and if you do not disapprove, you will perhaps be so good, as to inform me, that I may forward it without delay." 
               He joined his sister and Maude, and read to them a copy of the letter, which afforded Isabel great amusement. 
               "Imagine Maddalina spelling out such a letter, and more ridiculous still, attempting to answer it! Miss James would only serve-you right to send it to the young lady's papa." 
               "I do not think you have placed Miss James in a very pleasant position," said Maude. "She is strictly conscientious, and will, I doubt not, be much troubled between her wish to gratify you and her nice sense of right." 
               "It is only a jest!" 
                
               "What was fun to "the boys was death to the frogs." 
               "We are highly flattered by the comparison, Miss James and myself; but I did not expect to escape your censure, Miss Allison!" 
               Maude was silent, and went to the garden in search of Ida. They were soon busily engaged threading fairy garlands of blue larkspur. 
               "We will press them in our books, and take them back to school to remember these days by," said the child. 
               Harry came and sat down beside them. "I have come to be forgiven." 
               Maude looked up surprised. 
               "I found poor Miss James really puzzled over my nonsense; so I lightened her heart by telling her I had changed my mind, and that I withdrew the letter. I therefore begged her to forget all about it. Can I take an upward step in your good graces now?" 
               She smiled, and for answer gave him one of their wreaths, telling him of Ida's proposition. "This, then, shall grace my good friend 'Tacitus,' and tell me sweet stories to smooth the rough places, and brighten up the cloudy days for me at the Academy. You can't think, Maude, how tiresome it is sometimes to those of us who have such happy homes as mine; who have been accustomed to the gentle companionship of mother and sisters. It is such a contrast, living, day after day, among such a rough harum-scarum set of fellows as most of, ours are!" 
               "There is Dr. Milton's wife," suggested Maude. 
               "Very true, there she is I But a look at her long face and pursed up lips is enough for us! We don't venture to cultivate an acquaintance. I am not exaggerating, so you need not look so reproachfully at me. They do say that when the Doctor caught her, he caught a Tartar!" 
               "I should think he could, easily tame her, having had such valuable experience and practice among you boys." 
               "Don't think it! She is very hard on the young ones. There's a little fellow, Frank Travers, who doesn't seem to have any friends his guardian pays his bills, but who loves him is more than I can say. He is not strong, and sits about with a book when the boys are at their games. He is a quiet little fellow, but he contrives to get into more scrapes and a greater number of callings, than the worst among them." 
               "Why don't you take care of him, you big boys?" asked Ida, indignantly. "I wouldn't allow it, if I was there." 
               Harry laughed at her eager, excited manner. 
               "We did interfere at last," he said, "and one of the seniors took, him home with him for the holidays. By the way, I shouldn't wonder if he was related to your Professor. His name is Sutherland; he hasn't been there long, so I know very little about him." 
               "I'm so glad! I'll ask Mr. Ernest about it, when he comes," said Ida. 
               She did not forget it when Mr. Sutherland really came, a week or two before the holidays ended. She was gratified by the information that little Frank Travers was his brother's guest; had grown stronger and better, and seemed to be very happy among the young people at home. 
                
               A new zest was now given to enjoyment. Maude and Isabel at first felt a restraint in the presence of their late preceptor, but the feeling gradually wore off, and they acknowledged it was very pleasant to have him there. 
               They had fishing parties, boating excursions, long rambles on the sea shore; they clambered up the cliffs and gave themselves up fully to enjoyment. In the evening there was pleasant converse, in which Ernest, throwing aside his gravity and reserve, took a prominent part. 
               He was a fine reader, and sometimes, at Mrs. Lee's request, would swiftly while away the time By reading selections from popular authors. These "Evenings with the Poets" as Isabel called them, were a never tiring source of pleasure. 
               "Won't it be funny, when we go back to school, to be afraid of Mr. Ernest again?" said Ida. "I shall have to pinch myself to know whether Tin awake, when I see him so grand' and solemn in the class-room." 
               "I think that will be pretty much my case," chimed in Isabel." I can hardly realize that he 
                   
                     THE BOATING EXCURSION. Sea Drifts. p. 178. 
                  
                  
                   is the same Mr. Sutherland who gave you such a fright over your poetry, Maude. I smiled to myself to-day, when I heard him ask you if he was forgiven yet." 
               Thus they chatted as they were preparing to go to rest. Isabel's reminiscence woke no answering mile from Maude. Long after the others slept she laid awake, watching the moonbeams quivering upon the dreaming faces near. She could hear the soft murmur of the waves that washed the shore and the wind rustling gently among the leaves of the old elm tree outside. It was a soothing lullaby, and kept time to her thoughts of that walk at sunset-of the look upon Ernest Sutherland's face, when he stood with her beside the grassy mounds that covered those peaceful sleepers by the sea. 
             
             
                
                
               XII. Gone Out with the Tide. 
                
                  
                      
                        "When the neighbors came the morrow morn, 
                        What time the wind had 'bated, and the sun 
                        Shone on the old man's floor, they saw the smile 
                        He passed away in, and they said: 'He looks 
                        As he had woke and seen the face of Christ, 
                        And with that rapturous smile held out his arms 
                        To come to Him!'" 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               THEIR wanderings were ended soon after, by one of those unforeseen events which seem, as it were, to bring us so near eternity that, by taking one step, we see shine through the open portals a sudden splendor that is not of earth. 
               They had been up the cliff, and after lingering longer than was their wont, turned toward home, not missing Ida who had left them to search for some flowers, such as she had once before found there. Carefully they passed down the steep path, beguiling the way with laugh and jest, unheeding danger near. 
               Far above them, higher than the wild sea-foam could leap, was Ida. Like a far off echo her voice came to them, singing as if her very soul would pass up and pierce the clouds to overtake the bird which seemed to mock her song far beyond them. 
               For a time she followed the well-worn path that other feet had so often trodden, as well as some that never more would leave an imprint there. 
               Above her was the clear sky, with wafts of light, fleecy clouds, golden in the sunshine. Below, far as eye could reach, the billows were rolling in, throwing their foamy treasures of sparkling spray upon the shore. And sailing lightly, as a leaf floats on the wave, went a white sail out to sea. 
               She shaded her eyes and looked around, above, below-paused a moment in her song to pluck a flower from the perilous edge of the cliff. But the moist earth about it treacherously gave way, and a shriek that waked the echoes far and near reached the loitering group below. 
               At a glance, Ernest Sutherland saw the peril. Isabel looked up toward the giddy height, saw the little falling form, and swooned away. Harry searched eagerly about, then catching
                   
                   
                     IDA SUSPENDED. Sea Drifts. p. 185. 
                  
                   up a coil of rope and a boat-hook, followed Ernest's flying steps. 
               Maude, the very beating, of whose heart seemed stilled, with tightly-clasped hands and marble face, unheeding the unconscious Isabel, sent up a wordless prayer of agony. And the God of prayer heard and answered. 
               Catching at a bush that jutted out from a ledge of rock, Ida hung suspended, as it were, in mid air. When her deliverer reached her, strength was well nigh exhausted. With a glad cry she loosened her hold folded her arms around his neck, her eyes closed-and he bore back to the living, one who seemed as of the dead. 
               It was some time before they could bear to speak of that fearful day, which so effectually ended their rambles; for the cliff was thenceforth a forbidden path. A quiet, thoughtful group, with hearts full of thankfulness, lips upon which' sweet words of praise trembled, they joined the worshipers upon the Sabbath morning, and felt, as never before, how sweet it was 
                  
                      
                        "To walk together to the kirk, 
                        And all together pray, 
                        While each to his great Father bends, 
                        Old men, and babes, and loving friends, 
                        And youths and maidens gay." 
                     
                  
                
               The pastor had grown old among his people; he had known their grandsires in their youth; known the toil, and struggles, and the hardships of the life they led. Well could he teach of One who, by the Sea of Gallilee, had sat and talked with fishermen. To-day his words were of the widow's son raised from death, given back to his mother. All had heard of the peril which had threatened the little stranger, who sat among them with such a serious look on her sweet face and unshed tears glistening in her eyes. Mothers drew closer to their own darlings, and rough men bent a softened glance on the little one who had well-nigh perished on the cliff. 
               The sermon ended; a hymn of thanksgiving rose soft and clear, at first from a few voices, then another and another joined, and, at last, the child herself, until, like a triumphant strain, it floated up toward heaven. The listening shadows in the gallery seemed to take up the strain, echoing back the chorus; and along the roof, in whispered tones, it was prolonged and the burden of the melody, the beginning and the ending, was, "Saved! saved! saved!" 
               They went from the gray old church into the world without; and the sunshine never seemed so bright, nor the Sabbath so holy, as that day appeared to them upon whose hearts seemed resting 
                     "The benediction after prayer."
                  
                
               The shadow of the death-angel's wing had passed from one dwelling to fall upon another. Childhood had been spared to gather what store of sunshine and joy it might from life's checkered paths; but the summons came to one whose feet had long since grown weary in its dusty ways, whose heart had been torn and bleeding from its piercing thorns. 
               "I should like to be buried in the sea,' Ladybird bird,'" said Will Cameron. "Bessie sleeps there, and I should like the roll of the waters above me-to go down as she did, far, far below them." 
               "Don't talk so, dear Will, it troubles me. When the Good Being gives your spirit a bright home among His many mansions, it would comfort me to stand by the spot where the earthly part must lie. Jesus laid in the grave-the Jesus whom you love-don't you remember?" 
               He did remember-this rugged man, to whose blighted life she had brought joy again; by her simple teachings years ago his heart had been turned to God. The mists of earth were fast passing away, and he looked beyond with wistful eyes to the city of rest, with its great white throne, its river of life. The things of earth, were of little value to him now. 
               "Let it be as you will! There will be no other left to care for the old man's going. Like a grain of sand taken from the shore down' yonder, he will be gone, and none will know or think that there's one less for the waves to wash away." 
               Dr. Lee, Isabel, and Ida came during the day, and to each he spoke some last words of thanks for past kindness. Maude would not leave him. "In the afternoon, one of the-neighboring women, whom he had endeared by many acts of kindness, came to share the watch. 
               "I had a cur'us dream last night, between, sleeping and waking. I must try and tell it to you, 'Lady-bird;' mayhaps 'twill be some comfort to your tender heart. I could hardly have been sleeping, for I mind me how the wind moaned through the trees as in Autumn weather; the moon went under a cloud and I could only see the glint of the beacon-light yonder through, the window. I seemed to be going over my life again; things I forgot years gone, came back. The breezy waft that used to come over the Scottish heather was on my face once more. It is e'en-a'most the only remembrance I have of the mother's home, but it was a pleasant one! After that came a sweet, soft chiming; I could hardly tell the sound at first, but it swelled loud and louder, a glad music, like as of wedding-bells. A mist seemed all about the room, and through it I saw faces-yours, 'Ladybird and one like yours, but not so bonny; then, voices came mingling with the sound of bells, like the voice of wind to wave; and I heard one clear and glad, 'Found at last! Maude is found!' While I was thinking what it meant, all was gone. I could not sleep till day-break, but took great comfort in the thoughts that came to keep me company, for who knows but it may be a token that some time you may find your own people from the country over the sea?" 
               She did take comfort in the thought, and told him so. He had a great hold upon her, and she grieved to part with one who had known her from the stormy night when she was thrown up from the wreck upon the shore. 
               "I'd take it kind if you'd read me a word or two from the Good Book," he said, after a time. "Read of the storm, the rocking boat-the poor, trembling souls who thought it was a spirit walking on the sea." 
                
               "Ah!" he said, after she closed the book, "What good cheer that is-'Fear not, it is I!'" 
               The rays of the setting sun came slanting in through the window, touching with a golden gleam Maude's hair, falling like a blessing on the worn but peaceful face of the dying, making it almost beautiful. The fisherman's widow sat near, in white cap and apron, her hands folded idly on her lap, thinking, perchance, of a Summer-day, when a boat went down in sight of land, and with it her own brave boy-thinking, of Will Cameron and the words of comfort he had given; and when the body drifted to the shore, of the almost womanly tenderness with which he helped to bear it home. 
               It was a solemn, peaceful scene; and so thought Ernest Sutherland, as he quietly closed the door and- took his station opposite to Maude. 
               There was a gleam of welcome on Will's face, telling he looked upon him as a friend. He seemed to sleep for a few moments, then roused again and searched with dying vision for Maude's hand. She laid it in the clasp of his, now growing cold, and bent forward to hear his words. 
               "I've not lived as I might, and now I'm a useless hull. Soon I shall sink. Well! well! it's best so! Give 'The Bessie' to young Master Harry; and, in my chest, you'll find some bits of coral and some shells, that Bessie's fingers loved to handle. You'll keep them, 'Lady-bird' for the sake of the old man who loved you." 
               He wandered a little and spoke more dreamily: "Ay! ay! the storm's coming up; it grows dark; but the sail's furled, and the hatch is fast. Don't be afraid, Bessie! Hold me fast,' Lady-bird!' Look aloft, young ones! Yon's the star! We're coming safe to shore; and we'll weather the storm, without a dash of spray on your snow-white wings! We came out of the sunlight into the dark, but we'll find the light again, with the sky over us bright as a dream! Do you know what the stars are, 'Lady-bird?' I'll tell you. Every soul that's saved is made a new star in heaven; that's why there's so many-so many. You can look up there and watch for me soon; a new star in the sky!" 
               Maude's tears were, falling, and she laid her cheek upon the hand that would not loosen its clasp. He lifted the other feebly, and it dropped on her head. "God of the, sea and land! Ruler of the storm! bless my 'Ladybird!'" 
               He was silent, and they thought, for ever. The lingering sunbeam faded from the room; there was no brightness now, only a softened light reflected from the crimson clouds in the west. 
               "It is dark!" said the tremulous, broken tones. "Are you here, little Maude? I am off shore-my feet are in the waters-cold! cold! and dark!" 
               "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I will fear no evil: for Thou art with me; Thy rod and Thy staff, they comfort me," said the calm, clear tones of Ernest Sutherland. It was music that thrilled upon the dying ear. "Ay! Ay!" he murmured. "He walked upon the sea; I see Him with the glory-light about Him! See, 'Lady-bird,' the shining shore; the city of the Great King! I'll drop anchor now-safe, safe in port!" 
               There was a tremulous sigh, like the sweeping wing of a bird; there was a peaceful smile upon the lips 
                     "Now sealed with the Death King's kiss,"
                   and the spirit winged its way to the light of the unseen world. 
               Shadows were creeping about the room; the boat rocked idly on the billows, but the hand that had so often steered its course was motionless; the earthly work was done; the life-bark was stranded; the soul of the fisherman went out with the tide! 
               Humble friends came to do the last kindly offices for the dead. Maude must leave him now to others. In the past she had done what she could, and her efforts were not vain. His last words and thoughts were of her. She bent over him, and her tears fell upon the unconscious scious face that had so often brightened at her coming. She touched with her lips the hand that had been laid in blessing on her head, and, with a look, as if pleading excuse to Mr. Sutherland, she said, "I had not many friends; he was one of the first." 
               There was a quiver about the grave lips, and an unwonted moisture in his eyes. He took her hand reverently, drawing her gently away; but neither by word nor by look did he intrude upon the grief, which he respected, even though he scarcely understood the tie which had linked the young girl to the rough old man. 
               On a peaceful Sabbath afternoon they bore him to his rest, within sound of the sea waves. They laid him where the first and the last sunbeams might fall upon the sod above him. There, years after, a white stone gleamed, on which was carved beneath his name: 
                     "Sailed for the heavenly shore."
                   "Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 
             
             
                
                
               XIII. At School Again 
                
                  
                      
                        "As then I see her slender size, 
                        Her flowing locks upon her shoulder; 
                        A ten year's loss to Paradise, 
                        For ne'er on earth the child grew older." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               "AT school again! But how changed since last year!" wrote Isabel to Margaret Ruthven. "We miss you every day and hour. We pass the old rooms where we once were neighbors. Maude and I, with Ida Rivers, occupy that at the end of the corridor, in which we are trying our best to feel at home. It is hard work to quiet down to study after so long a rest. 
               "We had a very happy Summer: all that marred our pleasure being the fright about Ida, and the death of poor Will Cameron. Maude doubtless told you of these. She grieved for the old man, and we could not help feeling badly ourselves. 
               "Imagine our having had Professor Sutherland as a guest! You wouldn't believe how entertaining he can be; but if the schoolmaster master was abroad then, he is safe home again; and I stand at as respectful a distance as if I had not torn my dresses, clambering up the cliff in company with his highness! Ida says there are two Mr. Ernests, one in school and one out of school, and I think she is about right. 
               "The Maddalina is with us again! She and Kate Contee are just now having a war of words over a book which Miss Smith has smuggled in, contrary to orders. Blanche Carroll is married! What do you think of that? Sadie Saville is working hard for the medal. She is a talented girl, but I think I know one who surpasses her. 
               "There is the bell! the same old bell you used to love. I must obey the summons, so, 
               "Au revoir." 
               Several new pupils, filling up the last year's vacancies, made their appearance. Among these, was a West Indian girl, whose dark proud beauty elicited much admiration. She was extremely reserved, repelling every advance toward friendship. After a time, however, much to the surprise of the seniors, an intimacy sprung up between Maddalina and Zaidee Costello. In a few days the wonder ceased, and she was allowed to follow the bent of her inclination without remark. 
               It was Mrs. Howard's custom to assemble the elder pupils on Sabbath afternoons for an hour's instruction and Bible reading, while the younger were under the charge of Miss Wilson. On the first and second Sabbaths Miss Costello excused herself, first on one pretense, then on another. On the third, she was persuading Miss Smith to keep her company. 
               "There'll be such an everlasting fuss" said the girl; "it wouldn't pay to raise a storm. I guess I can grin and bear it for an hour. We can finish the book to-night. I've some candles left, and I'm half dead to find out if Fitz Edward gits married to Agnes Amanda! Hush! Here comes Mrs. Howard's saint; but she is what I call a sneak." 
               "I heard your remarks, Miss Smith, as you probably intended I should. Your opinion of me grieves me very little, as I do not feel conscious of deserving it. I am no saint, neither does Mrs. Howard consider me as such. I wish to do right, so far as I can, and I wish you had the same desire." She laid her hand gently on Maddalina's shoulder, and looked earnestly into her expressionless face. "Do not stay from the Bible class. Do not refuse an opportunity of obtaining knowledge, that will be of more value to you than riches. Come, for your father's sake, if not for your own!" 
               Maddalina shook off the little hand, but deigned, no reply. 
               "you have never been present yet, I believe," said Maude, turning to Miss Costello. 
               "I have not. I wanted inclination," she replied. 
               "I do not think you would have that; excuse, if you but ventured once. Mrs. Howard has great descriptive talent, and you know the incidents in the New Testament connected with our Saviour's ministry on earth are thrillingly beautiful." 
                
               "I have very little knowledge of the Bible, Miss Allison." 
               "How much pleasure there is in store for you then. You will come this afternoon-will you not?" and the soft blue eyes, beaming with love, were very winning in their beauty. 
               "I will come," said Zaidee. 
               "What a sweet face it is!" she continued, as Maude left them. "Strange, I never noticed her! So that is the girl you call a sneak! I can't say much for your powers of discrimination." 
               "What a bamboozled set they all are!" muttered Maddalina. "I do wish I could find out what there is in that pale-faced Maude Allison, to make sich an ado over; for the life of me, I can't see nothing uncommon, about her." 
               The interest with which Maude had so unconsciously inspired Zaidee Costello did not decrease. The word spoken in season on that Sabbath afternoon was the means, under the blessing of God of eventually leading the young girl to seek "the pearl of great price;" of winning for her a light from above to shine upon the way when, in after years, life's tempests swept over her. 
               With the falling leaves and stormy winds of November came an unexpected guest. The scarlet fever, that terrible scourge which has blighted so many human blossoms, made its appearance in the Institute. Every precaution was taken to prevent it becoming epidemic, but for several weeks danger and death hovered over the treasures of many homes. 
               The regular exercises of the school were suspended, and the girls gathered in groups with pale, anxious faces, watching for the daily Bulletin, telling of the welfare of their companions. 
               In the gray dusk of evening it was whispered from one to another that "Death had crossed the threshold;" and the undefined, inexpressible awe that such tidings bring, fell on the young hearts wishing, and yet fearing, to know which of their number had fallen beneath "the pale horse and its rider." 
               It was one of the younger children, Alice Grey-motherless and fatherless, without sister or brother, to grieve for her going. Her aunt, a gay, worldly woman, furnished ample means for every expense, and sent directions for her burial, excusing her own absence on the plea of fearing to carry the contagion to her own cherished household. 
               A fair and gentle child was Alice, the very dear friend of Ida Rivers, who for a time refused to be comforted. 
               There were sad faces and tearful eyes looked out from the school-room windows the next morning, when the little coffin was carried out. 
               They had not seen the little girl since her illness, and for those who had never looked on death, it was hard to imagine the beauty that rested on the waxen face and clasped hands in that narrow casket. But sadly they thought of 
                      
                        "The little pale blossom 
                        With leaves that were folded in solemn repose; 
                        Some there were weeping 
                        For her visionless sleeping, 
                        As the long heavy night-watches drew to a close 
                        And left her with death in lonely repose. 
                         
                        "She had caught the far splendor, 
                        She had heard the low, tender, 
                        Melodious warble at Heaven's high gate; 
                        And she said, 'I am weary, 
                        The night-time is dreary- 
                        Dear Saviour, that lovest me, I know thou dost wait 
                        By the river of life at the Beautiful Gate!'" 
                     
                  
                
               For a time they thought and spoke tenderly of the little one so early gone to dwell among the angels. There would come a shade of sadness over some bright face at sight of the vacant place, the unused desk, or some memento unexpectedly brought to view. But her books, work, and childish games were put away put of sight, and the impression caused by her death gradually wore away. The buoyant heart of youth is not to be chilled by sorrow; there is too much joy and sunlight abroad, for them to linger long in shadow. 
               With restored health and the fear of danger removed, the old routine was resumed; and seemed a dark dream-those weeks of watching, and anxiety, and fear. Mrs. Howard had not failed to remind them of the love and mercy, which, while one had been removed, had spared so many. She poured out in prayer a heartfelt thanksgiving for their safety, and asked that they might learn so to live, that when the summons came to them, each and all might be numbered among the Saviour's jewels. 
               Christmas, with its thousand thrilling associations of joy and peace its reunions of friends, its social and home gatherings, was at hand. It was to be celebrated very quietly among Mrs. Howard's pupils this year; and except that for most of them came boxes full of tokens of affection and remembrance from the absent, there was little to mark the season. 
               There was some talk of tableaux, but for want of a leader, the plan fell through, and they contented themselves on Christmas eve with decorating the rooms, making them almost a bower of evergreens. It was at this time that Zaidee Costello asked for admission to Maude Allison's room, and made a confession rather startling in its nature. 
               She blamed herself, she said, for having aided and abetted Maddalina Smith in obtaining from a circulating library three, volumed novels, having a tendency to fill her mind with false notions of society, and fostering her, natural taste for the marvellous. She herself had given up such reading since she had known Maude, and had tried to repair the wrong she had done Maddalina, by prevailing upon her to do the same. The books, she believed, were abandoned, but she very much feared there was a clandestine correspondence carried on, which might result sadly to the foolish girl. 
               This fear was verified a few days after by Kate Contee, who had found a letter, which she handed about for the amusement of the seniors. 
               "To think of her falling in love with that sheepish-looking, freckle-faced fellow, who brings our packages from the city! She calls him a nobleman's son in disguise, her adored Adolphus Fitz-Eustace, and winds up by styling herself, 'his'n in life-his'n in death!' How I should like Mrs. Howard," exclaimed Kate, "to see this precious effusion; except that I despise an informer, I would take it to her post haste!" 
                
               "But, perhaps that is just what we ought to do," said Isabel, who, having enjoyed a laugh over it, began to consider the matter more seriously. 
               "Perhaps we can manage without. Let us call up the young lady herself," suggested Kate. 
               Ida Rivers summoned her, then went back to the school-room with some of the little ones. 
               Maddalina entered Isabel's room, evidently surprised at being sent for. 
               "Well! What's up now?" she asked. "What am I wanted for? You're not generally so anxious for my company." 
               "Is this remarkable composition yours?" said Kate, holding it tip between finger and thumb, "We were just consulting as to whether or not, we should send it to Mrs. Howard." 
               Maddalina sprang forward; it was the work of a second to seize and dash it into the flames. 
               "I'd like to know what business it is of yours, any how? You're never satisfied unless you've got something to harp on. You're always trying to git me into trouble. You're a mean-spirited spirited set, the whole of you; and, it's nothing but spite, because you haven't got as much money and costly dresses as me!" 
               "That is it, exactly," said Kate, coolly. "I admire your discrimination! Suppose you practise a little generosity, and make us a present of some of your cast-off finery!" 
               Miss Smith looked perplexed, but Kate and Isabel appeared very grave. 
               "I'll tell you what I'll do," she said brightening. "I'll give you both a splendid breast pin, real gold, if you don't say nothing about that letter. It won't do a mite of good, and besides I don't write to him no more: I--" 
               "That letter was dated; you wrote it yesterday," interrupted Isabel. 
               "Well! yes, I know; but you see I didn't bear he was gone away till this morning." 
               The offer of the breast-pins being indignantly rejected, and Miss Smith duly warned that a repetition of the act would surely lead to her exposure, she was permitted to depart. 
               On the stairs she met Ida Rivers, singing gaily. Maddalina stopped her. 
                
               "Your impertinent little wretch! I'll teach you another time! What business had you to take my letter to those girls up stairs!" 
               "I didn't, Miss Smith. Let me go, please; I have a message for Miss Maude." 
               "Miss Maude can wait, then! You know you promised to put that letter under the stone in the garden. I intended to buy a large paper of candy; but I'll give you something better, something that will do you good." 
               Suiting the action to the word, she shook her angrily, until the little girl was almost breathless. Then, suddenly relaxing her hold, with a parting push, Ida reeled, lost her balance, and was precipitated to the hall below. There Mr. Sutherland found her, surrounded by a panic-stricken group, motionless and unconscious. He took her up tenderly, and carried her to her room, followed by Maddalina, wringing her hands, shrieking: 
               "I've killed her! I've killed her!" 
               For days, Ida's life seemed to hang by a thread, and Maude Allison watched unweariedly day and night beside her. 
                
               Slowly she came back to life and strength, but her constitution was strong, and triumphed over the fever which had threatened her brain. She took her place in school once more, a trifle paler, but "not a whit-less noisy," said Kate Contee. 
               This accident was one of the connecting links, which led to the discovery of Miss Smith's conduct. Mrs. Howard, hopeless of her improvement, and fearful of her influence on the younger pupils, sent her to her sorrowing father; and the name of Maddalina Glorivina Smith, was erased from the fair cluster gracing the roll of Howard Institute. 
               Her after life should prove a warning to those parents who, blind to the faults of their children, weakly foster the germs of evil, until their growth defies all restraint. 
               The foolish daughter of a weak, vain mother, aspiring after fashion and wealth, fell a prey, at last, to a fortune-hunter met at a gay watering place, where Miss Smith became Mrs. Julius Biggs. 
               Disappointed in his expectation of obtaining possession of her fortune, he left her without warning, taking passage to Australia under a false name. Losing all clue to his whereabouts, she was thrown upon the care of her parents-a fretful disappointed woman, with no mental resources, no love for domestic duties, no care for the happiness of others. Thus wrapped up in the selfish contemplation of her own trouble, winning no friend, she drifted aimlessly down life's current. Whither? 
             
             
                
                
               XIV. New Friends. 
                
                  
                      
                        "See where they go! A very cloud 
                        With rosy pleasure overladen! 
                        Sure Flora hath to-day endowed 
                        With her own form each little maiden." 
                     
                      
                        "Years have brought us some new friends, 
                        And made the old more dear; 
                        And shown how love may constant prove 
                        And friendship be sincere." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               THE Spring, with its wealth of blossoms, its singing "birds, came brightly once again; and. Mrs. Howard's young charges, rejoicing in the light, went gladly out to meet it. 
               There had been no soire this year, so they petitioned for a May festival. Busy hands and tongues were engaged in the long school-room. Very useful Professor Sutherland made himself in directing carpenters assisting with the decorations, suggesting alterations and improvements, for which beaming faces and bright eyes thanked him. 
               "Who shall be Queen?" was a query that perplexed them not a little. "Maude Allison," was the unanimous cry; but the young lady declined in such a manner, that it was useless to urge it, even while she expressed herself as grateful for the kind feelings which prompted the wish. They must decide between Isabel Lee and Zaidee Costello. 
               "If Maddalina Glorivina were only here, what a famous Queen of Sheba she would make! Poor girl! I was the only one, who ever appreciated her brilliant attire. It's a painful fact!" said Kate, adding leaf after leaf to her garland. "It's rather singular, and I confess, rather aggravating, that you should be at such a loss for a Queen, where I am!" 
               "Ah! Miss Katie, you're blithe, but you're na bonnie," said Agnes McMurray, a little niece of Mrs. Howard's who had recently come from Scotland. 
               "Worse and worse!" returned Kate. "Don't say that again!" and she turned a comical look of pretended indignation on the offender, making her laugh more merrily than ever. "'Na bonnie!' Why, I'm the best and bonniest child my mother has!" 
               "Aweel, Miss Katie, she may nae hae anither!" 
               "True, little lassie, too true to be denied; but you need not fret I've not dignity enough to support the honor. I should find myself making face at the Crown-bearer, pinching my maids of honor, or doing something else equally distressing! Isabel is beautiful, assail may see, but I hardly think she would meet the emergency any better than your humble servant;' while Zaidee Costello is every inch a queen." 
               And so it was finally settled to the satisfaction of all concerned. Maude gave her aid willingly, and proved invaluable, writing speeches for Queen, Crown-bearer and Floras. 
               A night long to be remembered by the happy girls was the first of May; and never amid gayer scenes, flushed with beauty, did the admiration Zaidee won excite so pure a pleasure as the homage of the joyous band who crowned her Queen of May. 
               Maude had been unusally thoughtful for many days, and seemed struggling for courage to accomplish something that she had much at heart. 
               "She has examination-fever!" said Kate, laughing at Isabel's concern. "Let Dr. Contee feel your pulse, Maude! Hem-hem-a little feverish, eyes dreamy, lips quivering;-a bad sign-hem-hem. I must write a prescription; great danger of skience on the brain or pedagogues on the heart-hem-hem!" 
               "Oh, Kate! how can you mimic good old Dr. Jones?" Still Maude could not laugh. 
               "Very good! Hem-slight improvement. I think she'll do now marm," turning to Isabel, "hem-hem!" 
               Maude had an interview that evening with Mrs. Howard, resolving to know either of her success or defeat. She explained much that was already known by the good lady-of her many obligations to Dr. Lee; of her unwillingness to continue a dependent on his bounty, and her desire to become a teacher. Did Mrs. Howard think she was competent to take charge of the younger pupils? She heard that Mrs. Howard wished to engage another assistant for the coming year; might she hope that her application would be considered? 
                
               "Was Dr. Lee aware of her intentions? Did he approve?" asked the lady. 
               He had long known of her wish. It was with this understanding she had accepted his offer for her to share Isabel's advantages. Maude had that day received a letter from him, yielding a reluctant consent, provided she could remain with Mrs. Howard. If she could be employed, she would be very grateful, and try so earnestly to do her duty. 
               Mrs. Howard looked at the, slight, girlish, figure; the fair child-like face brightened with hope, and marvelled, even while she respected, the motives of the young enthusiast. Mrs. Howard bade her ponder the matter well. On; the one hand, a home shared with Isabel, where she was fondly loved and tenderly cared for; on the other, the wearing life of a conscientious teacher; its many trials and perplexities; the efforts to do good that seemed so often barren of results. 
               There was a trusting light in Maude's eyes that spoke of the leading principle of her young life. Her words seemed to follow out a train of thought. 
               "But some good comes of it, dear Mrs. Howard. You work for God, and even one soul won for Him is worth a life of toil." Then, as if abashed at her own boldness, she flushed, faltered, thanked Mrs. Howard for her kind consent, and left the room. 
               Isabel was yet to be informed of what, to her, would seem a sudden resolve, a whim of the moment, yet which, nevertheless, had been present with the young girl since she was old enough to know and feel how great the debt she owed to strangers. 
               As Maude had anticipated, to quote Miss Contee, "Isabel took it very hard, as hard as I took the whooping-cough. The doctors thought it would be the death Pd die, but I pulled through, and so will she; don't fret." 
               Isabel declared they were all crazy together. A pretty teacher Maude would make! She'd like to see her at it! If she was so anxious, why couldn't she try her hand on her? She wasn't half educated, and never intended to be fully so, if Maude left her. But you shall not," she said, in an excited tone; "not if I have to put you in a strait jacket and keep you by main force. I'm not a bit too good to do it. Maude Allison a teacher! Not while Isabel Lee keeps her senses. So let there be an end of it!" 
               It was ended, however, in a very different unexpected manner. Ida river came in search of the girls one afternoon in an unusual state of excitement. 
               "Oh Miss Isabel! Miss Maude! I'm so happy! I'm so happy! I'm afraid I shall go crazy!" 
               "It's my opinion you won't have very far to go," was Kate Contee's reply. "What ails you, child?" 
               "Papa's coming! Coming in the next steamer! He may be here any day now; and oh, Miss Maude! you're not Miss Maude any longer, but my own dear, sweet cousin-Cousin Mae!" and she threw her arms about the astonished girl, kissing her again and again. 
               "That child's head ought to be shaved and a blister applied immediately! She must be delirious." 
               "Indeed, then, I'm not, Miss Kate! It's true, every word of it. Read the letter! It's all there. Mrs. Howard has one, too. As soon as papa heard that Maude's other name was Allison, he knew she was his Maude-his sister's child, that everybody thought was dead. Papa sent to England for the name of the ship my aunt sailed in-that was when I was almost a baby, but I've heard them tell about it; how, after a while, news came that the ship was lost and every body who was in it. And now he's so happy because Maude was saved! He loved her mother so much; she was all the sister he had. He is going to leave mamma in Italy with some friends for a little while, until he comes, to find out all about it and be very sure Maude belongs to us. I'm sure already. 
               The strange intelligence was almost too startling for reality. Maude was bewildered. It was sweet to know that she had kindred ties; she had so often felt her utter isolation. But, looking at Isabel, her usually bright face almost sad, she felt reproached that, even for a moment, she had forgotten the claim of the kind friends of her need. She sat down by her mute companion, and put her arm lovingly around her. "Isabel! dear Isabel! I shall always love you just the same; you, all who, were so kind and good, when I had no one else." 
               "You are Miss Allison, the heiress, now! Every thing will be changed. But do not think me selfish, Maude. I am glad enough for your happiness, but I cannot help grieving to lose you!" 
               "Maude Allison, the heiress!" She had not given a moment's thought to the information, received from Colonel Rivers, through Mrs. Howard. Mount Allison, her father's home, was her's now! A distant relative, a lonely bachelor, had recently died there, and Colonel Rivers announced his intention of taking immediate steps for Maude's restoration to her rights. 
               Many were the congratulations Maude received, for very dearly was she loved. Among them all, the one to which her heart responded, was Mr. Sutherland. "I rejoice with and for you, Miss Allison! It is a wide, wide world in which to be alone." 
               She had long felt it to be so; had felt the need of near relatives, the finding of whom called forth deep gratitude and thanksgiving. With a new and tender emotion she performed the usual offices for Ida, and responded warmly to her good-night words: "I must give you two kisses now; one for Ida, and one for papa." 
               "The only gleam of comfort I see in the whole affair," said Isabel, "is, that it knocks the teaching project out of the way. I must confess that was too great a stumbling block for me to surmount." 
               Kate Contee announced it as her intention to continue her missionary efforts in behalf of Miss Smith, and proposed writing her a letter to enlighten Maddalina Glorivina (for she was morally certain that the young lady still lingered in Doubting Castle), as to "who Maude Allison was." 
               This intention, with numerous others of a similar nature, was quietly laid on the shelf and no more heard of. 
               Letters came from Dr. Lee and Harry, full of loving sympathy, but refusing to yield Maude entirely to the keeping of others. She must still allow their claim, and none must rob them of the old place in her heart. 
               "Poor Will Cameron! How glad he would have been for you, Maude," said Isabel one night as they lay awake talking it over. "I believe the old man almost worshiped you, 'Lady-bird!' I have seen him kiss the most trifling objects that had been in your hands." 
               "It was more the thought of 'Bessie,' with whom he had somehow associated me, Isabel." 
               "It may be so," she replied, dreamily. 
               Maude's thoughts went back to that Summer evening, the last Will had seen on earth. It came so vividly to her remembrance-that thrilling scene! The lowly room; the quivering sunlight, brightening and refining all; the homely figure of the woman who had shared her watch; Ernest Sutherland's, serious look fixed upon the dying face! She remembered the old man's dream and that other face he spoke of-the face that was like, yet unlike, hers. She could almost imagine she heard, as he had said, the joyous chime of bells, mingling with the glad, triumphant strains, "Maude is found!" 
               Even then, as she was musing, dreaming waking dreams, a ship had come to port; and from across the sea came one to seek and cheer with love and blessing the long-lost, the treasure found at last! 
             
             
                
               XV. The Lost Viking. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Oft in my waking dreams do I 
                        Live o'er again that happy hour, 
                        When midway on the mount I lay 
                        Beside the ruined tower. 
                     
                      
                        I played a soft and doleful air, 
                        I sang an old and moving story- 
                        An old rude song that suited well 
                        That ruin wild and hoary." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               SWIFT as the iron-horse could bear him onward came Colonel Rivers to his own little Ida, and to the new-found treasure-his long lost sister's only child, mourned for as one dead. 
               On a fine, bright morning in June, he was welcomed as fondly as heart could wish. The first glad greetings over, with Ida still clinging about him, he drew Maude to him, and, with a voice tremulous with emotion, said, "You are mother's child. I could almost think all the by-gone years a dream, and that I hold my fair young sister once more to my heart. You have her face, and my little wild bird here her name." 
               "I'm not so very little, papa," and Ida stood on tip-toe. "I've grown too tall for my last year's dresses. It will cost you something if I take to growing." 
               "I shall have to paint ruffles to your dresses; how will that do, little one?" 
               "'Ruffles!' Oh, papa! You're just as fanny as ever! They call them flounces, not ruffles, and your painted ones would not bear washing either." 
               He lent himself to the child's humor, and mingled with his tenderness so much of merriment, that the children thought it almost equal to a holiday, the coming of Ida's father-the tall dark man, to whom they were at first almost afraid to look up; but when by chance they met the sparkle of his eye, and the smile that went with it, they were disarmed of their fears and claimed him as "hail-fellow well met!" 
               He gave the crowning grace to their admiration, when he prevailed upon Mrs. Howard to allow him to celebrate his arrival, and the finding of Maude, by a festival. What knowing glances, mysterious conversations, and confidential whispers among them! "It was sure to be a grand affair!" they said; not that the note of preparation had been loud or long. Colonel Rivers had simply come into their midst, one afternoon, at recreation-hour, and, with a low bow, said that "Miss Allison, Miss Rivers and himself, would be happy to see them "on a certain evening," in the grand saloon of the Institute, with their brightest smiles and whitest aprons." 
               What surprised glances of pleasure were exchanged, followed by smiles that broke into laughter! 
               "Fancy Miss Maude and Miss Costello in white aprons like ours," said one of the little ones; and there upon ensued sundry offers to those young ladies of aprons of motley size and shape. 
               Dresses of spotless white did duty, however, for the aprons, with flowing sashes of white or rose color; and a fairer garden of living blossoms were never smiled upon. 
               The merriment was at its height, when a tall, graceful figure came in with Mrs. Howard. A look of bewilderment and half recognition, was turned upon it for a moment; then, with a glad cry, they clustered about their old favorite and school-mate, Maggie Ruthven. 
               This was a pleasant surprise for all. Colonel Rivers had brought her that very afternoon, smuggled her in to Mrs. Howard, and here she was, rested after traveling, in gala dress, ready to enjoy to the uttermost the glad meeting. 
               The hours sped by all too swiftly for the gay revelers; but as all things bright must fade, so faded the garlands that a little while ago were fresh and pure, scarcely more so than the brows they had crowned. The sound of music was hushed, the festal lights extinguished, and one group after another passed out, leaving desolate the room that had echoed to so much joyous life. 
               The happy evening passed, but not its memory. Long years after, it was associated with pleasant reminiscences of Colonel Rivers, Maude Allison, and Maggie Ruthven. 
               Colonel Rivers was impatient to join his wife, to take with him Maude and Ida; but yielded to Mrs. Howard's wish, that he should remain until the closing exercises of the school, in which Maude, for the last time, was to take a part. The busy scenes of last year were enacted over. Maude, Isabel, and Kate Contee would go away, to return no more as pupils. Maggie Ruthven had remained deeply interested in the success of those for whom she had formed so true a friendship. Upon the eventful evening, that wondrous last time, they were assembled in Maude's room, and Maggie, presiding over the mysteries of the toilet, passed from one to another with kindly offices, giving finishing touches that add so much of grace from loving fingers. 
               Maude's dress had been the choice of her uncle, his first gift. Of some gossamer material, it floated about her like a fleecy cloud, with soft falls of lace about the neck, and from the short full sleeves over the white molded arm. A package was sent in while they were dressing, containing cases for Maude, Isabel, and Ida. 
               "I knew papa was up to something; he looked so funny out of his eyes," said the little lady. 
                
               "Pray, what else was he to look out of, young frisk-about?" inquired Kate Contee, as Maggie Ruthven opened the boxes. A gold bracelet there was for Isabel, with enameled forget-me-nots; and touching a spring under the clasp, the loving face of Maude looked tip from its hiding place. 
               "You knew of this, and never told me! Well! when I've a secret, I will bring it to you for safe-keeping." 
               "No! I am quite as much surprised as yourself," Maude replied. "Colonel Rivers must have taxed his memory for this painting; but see what has fallen to my share!" It was a set of pearls, gleaming pure and white from their velvet bed; and on a folded sheet was written, "For my pearl, that the waves mercifully sent to shore, I bring these offerings that were once 'Under the Sea.'" 
               He had seen that poem, then. Mrs. Howard must have given it to him, for they remembered that she alone had a copy. So much absorbed were they in admiration of their own gifts, that Ida was in some danger of being forgotten; but it was no part of her intention to be so easily put aside. 
               "Gay as a butterfly!" said Isabel, when the dainty necklace and bracelet of coral were clasped. "You'll be able to sing, 'By the sad sea waves,' without help to-night." 
               Many a proud loving glance met them, as they took their places on the broad, elevated platform, gliding in to soft music, like spirits in a dream. 
               The audience-room had never held such a throng, densely crowded as it was with friends and relatives; and even strangers were attracted from a distance, by the reputation of the brilliant exercises, which had taken place at similar seasons. 
               The star of the evening, paler and less brilliant than some, was the one so soon to be missing from the bright constellation. Her singular history had been noised abroad; the strange coincidences, the last bright link in the scattered chain, riveted by new ties of kindred love, made her to-night the observed of all observers. 
                
               Colonel Rivers, Dr. Lee, with even his wife, were there to share her triumph. Harry, with the young brother of Ernest Sutherland, and the little boy who had so deeply excited Ida's sympathy, were with the throng. 
               Some who had heard and not forgotten "Under the Sea," awaited eagerly some new token of her gifted pen. There was to be no substitute to-night, and with courage kindled from happiness, she came forward, as the last strain of Ida's song died away. 
               A fair, sweet picture was Maude Allison, in the light of her sixteen summers-not beautiful, as beauty is told by regularity of features, or mold of form-fair she was, with a face that won its way to your heart, and not easy to be put away. A profusion of soft brown hair, that rippled into waves, when free from comb and band-waves that caught the gold of the sunbeams in their light. Eyes darkly blue, that straightway awakened memories-memories of eyes seen in your dreams, perhaps; eyes that smiled now for ever, because the tears are all wiped away. A dimpled cheek, with but the faintest tinge of rose; a mouth that seemed more formed for smiling than for grief, yet one knew not in which mood 'twere sweeter. Such was our Maude! 
               A burst of applause, that had nearly banished her hardly won composure, greeted her coming. 
               She rather looked than bowed her thanks, then bent her glance upon the unfolded manuscript. Like the murmur of sea waves to shells were the first faintly-spoken words; then, as if by strong effort o'ermastering the weakness, she read in a sweet, clear voice, which let no word be lost: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           The Lost Viking. 
                            
                              A beautiful picture from mem'ry's wall 
                              Is looking down upon me- 
                              Of a sunny morn and a cloudless sky, 
                              A boat in an open sea. 
                            
                            
                              As idly the light craft rocked on the tide, 
                              The boatman, old and gray, 
                              Was watching the child who sat by his side, 
                              Fair as the Summer's day. 
                            
                            
                            
                              She dipped in the water her dainty hands, 
                              Laughing as children can, 
                              The puzzled look on the face to see- 
                              The face of the old man. 
                            
                            
                              Then, she caroled a song, so sweet and clear 
                              It stayed the sea-bird's flight; 
                              While sunbeams were playing upon her face, 
                              Making it strangely bright 
                            
                            
                              Then softly shading her eyes with her hand, 
                              After the song was sung: 
                              "Oh, tell me, I pray, of that fair green shore, 
                              The cliffs and crests among." 
                            
                            
                              He bent him again to his trailing oars, 
                              The boat sped faster on; 
                              "We are nearing the Isle of Peace," said he; 
                              "Yonder is Newport town. 
                            
                            
                              "A tower built in the olden time, 
                              My bird, I'll show to thee; 
                              I'll tell again the legend old, 
                              As once 'twas told to me. 
                            
                            
                              "Far off, where towering icebergs frown, 
                              Toward the northern seas, 
                              A Viking bold in his vessel brave 
                              Sailed for the Hebrides. 
                            
                            
                            
                              "A Berserker stern and grave was he- 
                              His men were true and tried; 
                              Descended they from old Arngrim, 
                              Who fighting lived and died. 
                            
                            
                              "In search of prey, still on they sailed, 
                              And westward did they steer; 
                              But in a stormy wintry night, 
                              The ship was wrecked off here. 
                            
                            
                              "And some went down beneath the sea, 
                              Helpless as childhood then; 
                              The parted waves a moment yawned, 
                              Then closed o'er armd men. 
                            
                            
                              "Some floated, drifting in to shore, 
                              And here they made their home; 
                              Watching, perchance, a sail to see- 
                              Some sail they hoped might come. 
                            
                            
                              "'Twas then they built the olden tower, 
                              So it was told to me; 
                              Round upon round, higher it grew, 
                              That watch-tower by the sea. 
                            
                            
                              "Then round on round, as days went by, 
                              Their vigil well was kept; 
                              Like stars at night, a light gleamed out- 
                              Some watched while others slept. 
                            
                            
                            
                              "Days grew to months, and months to years, 
                              Some wearied unto death, 
                              Asking if aught the watchman saw, 
                              E'en with their latest breath. 
                            
                            
                              "One after one, as lessening waves 
                              Fade in day's dying light, 
                              There, far from kindred and from home, 
                              The Norsemen passed from sight. 
                            
                            
                              "Until, alas for him! but one 
                              Of all the hand was left; 
                              Despairing, as the days went by, 
                              His lonely watch he kept. 
                            
                            
                              "He looked with eager, gleaming eyes 
                              Out toward the treacherous sea; 
                              'Alas! no hope, no light he cried, 
                              'No help is there for me! 
                            
                            
                              "'The hand that kept sad time with mine 
                              Stopped working yestere'en, 
                              And but a new mound, near the rest, 
                              Tells that he once has been. 
                            
                            
                              "'The last of all, in silence I 
                              Must dwell for ever more; 
                              With bitter mem'ries of the past, 
                              Of my own native shore. 
                            
                            
                            
                              "'Eyes watch still for my coming sail, 
                              Sweet voices call in vain; 
                              Those voices like the Summer wind, 
                              I may not hear again! 
                            
                            
                              "'Ha! Is't a sail! At last, at last!' 
                              His eyes were strained once more. 
                              Alas! 'twas but a snow-capped wave 
                              That mocked him, far from shore. 
                            
                            
                              "Fainter his heart grew, day by day, 
                              And hope died out at last; 
                              He clad himself in armor then, 
                              In mem'ry of the past. 
                            
                            
                              "He waited calmly for the call, 
                              With none to make his grave; 
                              His unsealed eyes, in death as life, 
                              Turned ever on the wave. 
                            
                            
                              "He died-and none knew how or when, 
                              But years, long years ago, 
                              A skeleton in armor here 
                              Was found-'tis all I know." 
                            
                            
                              The childish face was grave and sad, 
                              The eyes were wet with tears; 
                              "How sad, to die there all alone, 
                              Alone so many years! 
                            
                            
                            
                              "Watching for some one who might bring 
                              Tiding of friends, and home; 
                              Could he not pray to God in heaven, 
                              That some one might have come?" 
                            
                            
                              "I know not, child," the old man said, 
                              "If he had heard of heaven- 
                              If in those long gone years to all 
                              This knowledge sweet was given." 
                            
                            
                              "'Tis sad, and passing strange," she said, 
                              "Poor spirit tempest-tost! 
                              I would I had not heard the tale 
                              Of how those souls were lost!" 
                            
                            
                              There, drifting shoreward, still I see 
                              The old man and the child; 
                              She, trembling at the tales he told- 
                              Tales of the Viking wild. 
                            
                            
                              And yet another picture comes 
                              In sombre frame beside 
                              This brighter one. Long since went out 
                              That old man with the tide! 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The deepest praise is not the loudest spoken. A breathless silence-a pause! broken after a few moments by the distinguished stranger who had consented to award the prizes long contested and dearly won. 
               One and another received at his hands the rewards of earnest, persevering labor-of merit as students and pupils. The last, glittering in golden sheen, the cross of honor-eagerly desired as those won by the old soldiers of the Legion. Before he could have spoken it, one name trembled upon many lips, joined to a sweet hope in the heart-the name of Maude Allison; and when at his bidding she came again before them, her cheeks flushing deeply now, there was a universal murmur of applause, and softer tones mingled with the words, "God bless her!" Fragrant tokens of sympathy, flowers rare and beautiful, were lavished upon her-upon this one fair girl, whose greatest charm, winning all hearts to love her, was, that she walked "in the light, even as He is in the light." 
               No jealousy lingered with those who had shared her studies, and now joyed to share her triumph-a reflected lustre from this life, their dearest and their best. 
             
             
                
                
               XVI. The Old World. 
                
                  
                      
                        The world's old, 
                        But the old world waits the hour to he renewed, 
                        Toward which new hearts in undivided growth 
                        Must quicken, and increase to multitude 
                        In new dynasties of the race of men,- 
                        Excluding falsehood: He shall make all new." 
                     
                      
                        She waits for the day when dear hearts shall discover, 
                        While dear hands are laid on her head, 
                        The child is a woman,-the book may close over, 
                        For all the lessons are said." 
                     
                   
                
                
                
               THE last links in the chain of school life were parted, but not so their friendships, which remained to brighten life in after years. 
               Mrs. Howard sat in her lonely home, when the echoes of young voices had died out, and no child's face was left to gladden her. It seemed to bring back that day, dark and sad, that day when Maude, her Maude, was laid away out of her loving sight. One, and now another, whom she had learned to love, about whom sweet hopes were clustering, had passed away. And now gone from her was this Maude, who, such a little while ago was alone in the wide world, but was now proudly claimed and loved! 
               So it is in life's changeful journeying; the sweet hopes which we had kept for lonely communing, buried out of sight, fade at last from our own minds, and we are left with but life's scattered joys and saddened memories-its solitary fireside! 
               Yet Mrs. Howard was no idle dreamer. Long had she been about her Master's work, scattering here and there seed, which, in the light of eternity, might reveal immortal fruit that sprung up from earthly soil. Her days were not yet numbered, nor her missions ended. What her hand found to do, she did with her mighty and when, after a life of honor and usefulness, she went at last to rest, there were many to sorrow for her loss-many whose characters she had molded, who se lives her loving care and counsel had made beautiful. "They rest from their labors, and their works do follow them," was a fitting epitaph for one gone to her reward. 
               A brief time, in the home of the last happy years, Maude lingered. She visited, with Colonel Rivers, all the old childish haunts. He stood with her upon the giddy height, from which little Ida had fallen. He thought of Ernest Sutherland, who had rescued his darling from so great a peril, and hoped that he would come, as he had promised, to their Italian home. 
               They stood by the graves upon the hillside. A marble shaft had been reared since last Maude came there; and on it were the names of those who slept so peacefully. The graves seemed not as such; for they lost their gloom when the violets sprung up there in the Springtime, and now Summer flowers were blooming as fair and bright as their sister blossoms in earth's sheltered garden. 
               How strangely the past came back to Maude-the dark hours, when one after another some prop had been taken from her, something on which she leaned had been removed; when, in the bitterness of grief, all seemed" dark and lonely, as when, on stormy wintry nights, we look wistfully to ward heaven and miss the glory of the stars. Then, the darkness and the shadow-now, the brightness and the sunshine. She had trusted in her Father's love; she had followed, as best she might, the Saviour's teachings; nor had her love and trust been vain. 
               They went away on a Summer morning from the shores of the New World, seeking with expectant hearts and joyous hopes the treasures of the Old. 
               Yielding to the earnest solicitations of Maude and Colonel Rivers, Isabel had been allowed to accompany them; Dr. Lee and her mother would join them before the Winter, hoping all things for the invalid, from the sunny climate of Italy. 
               Harry was to enter one of the Universities abroad. And only as pilgrims to some loved shrine, would they turn their steps in coining years, to the shores of their island home, the land of the setting sun. 
               The voyage was not long. Beguiled by the cheerful companionship of Colonel Rivers, and a few choice friends met unexpectedly, the, merry words of Isabel and the songs of Ida, time fled swiftly to Maude, who loved the sea. 
                
               Land! The green fields of England! Its cliffs looked almost coldly down upon them; but they left the coldness far behind, as the train swept them on, through sunny dells and hawthorn hedges; past smiling beauty, and here and there some lordly mansion. 
               They reached at last their journey's end. Fair, in the setting sun, seemed that glimpse through the elm trees of Mount Allison, her mother's home, but wanting that mother's presence. A country house it was, with many comforts, yet until now a lonely one, for want of human associations to brighten it. 
               The old housekeeper stood upon the broad steps, to give them welcome. She had grown up there; was a child long before this child's mother played upon the lawn; and now, she looked eagerly to see what soon she found, something of Maude's mother in her face. 
               They did not linger here long, for wearily Mrs. Rivers watched and waited. They were all to return in the Spring, and Maude would make her home here. 
               Southward they turned, ready to rejoice in the sunshine and loveliness around; gathering by the way-side every flower of beauty; joining bright threads of thought, to be woven into shape for others' scanning, for those whom they had left far over the sea. 
               Southward still they took their way, with little more than a glance at some fair cities; on, by the winding Rhone, which held mirrored in its blue depths, castle, town and tower nestling upon its banks. 
               Out once more into the open country, coming out of the mist into the beauty of the dawn, the sea shore was won again. Marseilles they left behind them in the purple light of evening, and pressed onward to a fairer land. 
               Italy, with its Summer skies; its wondrous spells of beauty; its tales of old romance! Florence, the far-famed city, was gained at last! Florence, with its valleys; its old trees; its old cathedral, and its palaces; its sunny vines; its hills and vales; its stores of paintings, and its wealth of art! But, better far than these, they found there the greeting that welcomed the wanderers home; the clasp of warm arms about them; the mother, who eagerly lavished caresses on the long-parted child-then, with wondering eyes, held her off to mark her growth. 
               The days went by as hours-there was so much to see, so much to learn; and many a kind look followed them, as the happy girls went here and there, in quest of some new beauty, some new pleasure. 
               Long letters were sent over the sea, and a marked day at Edgecliff was that which brought one of "Isabel's talks"-so she called them-to her home. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Tell Harry," she said, in one of these, "to hunt up his Italian dictionary, if he still wishes me to knowledge him. But for your sake and mamma's, I should make it my first care to forget English; so much am I in love with this musical tongue-this pure, sweet Tuscan. I have dreamed of Italy-I thought I had imagined it; but never so fair a picture blessed my mental vision as the land where the nights are as fair as day. We have a villa-just make a note of that-a villa near Valdarno; a garden with a fountain, and flowers that spring up almost untended, almost fit to make our hothouse blossoms die of envy. 
                           "Ida sings like a wild bird through the long groves, and when tired out she goes to see her mother. Sometimes she falls asleep upon the marble floor, her flowers scattered about her-a very sleeping, beauty. Her father found her thus one day, and made a picture as beautiful as any that we. saw in the galleries of the Pitti Palace. Mrs. Rivers is a gentle lady, and very kind to your Isabel, as is also her husband. Maude-we claim her still, do we" not?-is just our Maude. She has already found out the sick and suffering, and goes every day with Ida to the cottage of a Tuscan peasant, whose daughter, with her black hair braided and a scarlet handkerchief, would surely please your taste for beauty. Maude has found her way to the old man's heart and patronizes him, I suppose, in memory of Will Cameron. He understands English, something very rare here, and seems glad to hear Maude read from her little, well-worn Bible, 'her talisman as Colonel Rivers calls it. 
                            
                           "Like a good child, I feel in duty bound to inform you that I have lost my heart-to a grand old Roman, with a sweeping beard, snow white. He talks poetry for prose, and I have great hopes, that, under his tuition, with Maude's example, I may yet distinguish myself. Unfortunately he is a cripple, so that there is no possibility of his running off with me. 
                           "We are not idle, I assure you, but have masters for Italian and music, and it would do Mrs. Howard's heart good to see how diligent we are. I wish Maggie Ruthven would make you a visit now; she half promised me to do so. I should enjoy a look at her dear face, and the sound of Kate Contee's merry voice. You see my heart goes back to its early loves, and cherishes its early dreams. 
                           "We thought we caught a glimpse last week of his Serene Highness Professor Ernest Sutherland, but found that we were grasping at a shadow! 
                           "Ida desires me to say that she is watching for you, and counts the weeks over, and so, I am sure, does your 
                           
                              ISABEL."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               Those Summer days beneath Italian skies, how bright they were! In the studio of Colonel Rivers the girls loved to linger. Pictures glowed upon the canvas that almost vied in beauty with the unframed scenes without. And when weary with Ms work, they went, all together, to the bright haunts around; sketchbooks and selections from the poets were fitting companions of their rambles. Sometimes their boat would glide over the river in the moonlight or the starlight; and echoes of their songs floated afar over the waters and died away on the green banks beyond. 
               When the Autumn came, robed in soft beauty-Autumn here, without its falling leaves and moaning winds-Isabel was once more folded to her mother's heart. Harry was left in England, at college, and wrote that he was a martyr to his sense of filial duty, which excuse, he hoped, would prove satisfactory to his former mentor-Miss Allison. 
               "I rub my eyes, sometimes, to be sure I'm awake," said Ida, after a long day of pleasure. "I feel as if I should wake up some morning and find myself back at school; and; maybe, Miss Smith there, too. She was the worst of all." 
               "Poor Miss Smith! I fear she had a sad time among you," Dr. Lee said, pityingly. "I don't think you understood her case." 
               "I'm afraid not, papa. I think it would have puzzled a college of physicians, and put to rout the whole Materia Medica!" 
               "Very formidable, indeed.!" said the Doctor, laughing. 
               When the Spring came they ventured north-ward with the birds-and Maude was once more in her ancestral home, where she announced herself as a fixture. She could not remain there alone, and since his wife's health and the pursuit of his art would require Colonel Rivers to visit Italy, Dr. and Mrs. Lee had no alternative; they must remain to guard the child of their adoption. 
               "You, Maude and Mrs. Benson, are too wild and trifling to be left to yourselves!" said Isabel. "It is just as well for us to stay, and see that your spirits don't run away with you, or that you do not run away with some one else!" 
               At which the old housekeeper smiled grimly, and expressed herself as "greatly beholden to Miss Isabel for her kind intentions." 
               Dr. Lee, as his daughter had foretold, found ample field for the practice of the healing art; and his wife was happy in restored health, and in the love of her children, who vied, each with the other, to make this new home glad. 
               A pleasant English home it was, away from the din and bustle of the city, out of sight of its scenes of misery, out of hearing of its sounds of sorrow. 
               On a low hillside stood the house. Green valleys sloped below with a wealth of orchis, daisies white, and some with the rose-blush on them-English daisies, fairer than the prouder garden flowers. Broad fields of waving wheat spread out before the eye; and the long lane, leading to the house, was thickly shaded with gnarled oaks and stately elms. 
               In the May-time of the year, when the hedge-rows were alive with birds and butterflies, and the air was musical with the songs of the thrush, Ernest Sutherland came, a welcome guest. 
               Colonel Rivers, as days passed, learned to know the worth of one, to whom he owed a deeper debt of gratitude than words could pay. He became to Ernest a true, staunch friend; and that, in after years, the bright hopes and aspirations of his youth, were realized, was owing to the deep interest he had awakened in the artist's kindly heart. 
               In these pleasant May-days, Ernest was alike the friend and companion of all. In grave or 'social converse with Dr. Lee and Colonel Rivers, in gay parley with Isabel, giving jest for jest, he was equally at home. Or, at Ida's merry challenge, "Mr. Ernest, guess what I have found!" he would follow her, ankle-deep, through the long grass; to find, perhaps, the most golden of yellow primroses, or a door in the tangled hedge-rows, through which she was sure he could pass, but which failing to do, both would retrace their steps homeward, contenting themselves with bringing, a wealth of sweets-with coming laden with hawthorn blossoms, fair acacias, and orchis flowers. 
               From one of these rambles, he brought to Maude a simple violet; and well she knew the thought that was in his heart. She remembered how the violets looked up at her from the graves so far away; and wondered when again, if ever, she should stand there and listen to the murmur of the waves! 
               She missed their music now, and often thought that sleep would come earlier and seem sweet had she but the lullaby which from childhood she had loved. 
               Life had now for her new duties, in this her native land; duties which must not be put aside-Day after day she took them up, homely or pleasant, whatever they might be; and with a prayer for guidance from above, well did she perform them all. 
               In the sunlight of her home, loved, cherished, and revered; in the perfection of Christian loveliness, womanly tenderness, and girlish grace; with the beacon-light of her early years ever shining down upon her pathway; "for the right' her watchword and her guide-Maude Allison's life was beautiful! 
               If shadows fell, as fall they must on every path; if here and there new graves were made, blending with the holy memories of the old-strong in her childhood's simple faith, trusting a Father's love, leaning upon His promises, she ceased to look so far below for what was only to be found above the stars! 
               Out upon life's sea are many voyagers. Frail barks have some that the wind and storm make sport of, tossing their fragments far and wide. The path they cleft through the waves, is swept away by the next breaker, and there is no memory of them on sea or shore! 
               Stately ships, too, are launched and go out to sea in sunshine. The night and storm sweep also over them; but the pilot at the helm, and they who watch the winds, look ever with an eye of faith upon a guiding star-"The Star of Bethlehem." An unseen hand is pointing thither. The presence of One strong to save is around about them; and when, of all the stately vessel's pride, there is but a saddened wreck, those mortals put on immortality! the "Sea Drifts" of time float softly shoreward to the light of the beautiful land-the City of Rest-the New Jerusalem! 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
