
    ----CITATION----
        Barrington, F. Clinton. The Arrest .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7454
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The arrest 
            
               A^ ,

THE     ARREST:
A
TALE OF THE REVOLUTION;

FOUNDED ON FACTS
BY F. CLINTON BARRINGTONQ

LITTLE FALLS, N. Y.
PRINTED AT THE OFFICE OF THE HE KIMER JOURNAL.
1852.


a

THE ARREST:
OR,
THE DARING OF A PATRIOT LOVEII.
WHEM the English General Howe found himself master of
Bosto , he began to revolve in his mind how he should best punish
certai i listinguished families, who ,had been mostactive inoppo-
sition to the royal authority. His chief source of information was
a young tory, who, by means of his wealth and birth, had gained
the confidence of the British chief, and was now an inmate of
his military household, The name of this traitorous person was
Jenkins Wosley, who had no other recommendations theni id efli
person, his money and his high family ; for one of hiauncles had
been lieutenant governor of the Coimmonwealth.
The general was pacing up and down his library.ixt deep 'refleo-
tion, his lips compressed and his brows bent. The young tory was
standing in a recess of the 'window, seemingly engaged in watch-
ing the measured movements of the sentry in front, but in reality
furtivelyscanning the face of the English general. Suddenly the
ofcerturaed and said, with some excitement :
" Are you prepared to prove this, Mr. Wosley r"
" Heie are letters, sir. It is well known that she has been
more active than her father, if that were possible, in inspiring the
colony with-the 6positioi to the crown. It was she, sir, who
copied, and it is rumored, half.dietated the resolutips wheih
ipasse&amp;in may lst'at Fantteil Hall. v If 'she remains'in the ety,
general; she, will plot   o fourimiechief."
"She must be secured ! You think this plea of illness is but
an excuse to be suffered.to remain to act as a spy upon us ?"
' Without' doubt, sir, I bave no question but that she is in secret
correspondence wth Samnel Adams, John Adans, Handdck 'and
other rebel clilefs;,ol' whom her uncle is not the least."
" To be of his blood is enough to lead me to fear 'hei and to see
that she is not 4used toydo us injury.  Here is her, artfilMetier
to me.".
And General;Howe;took from a file before him on the table, a
paperwhich lie read aloud, as follows :
"aik Ad ydii do' not-watr upon women, I trust you will per-
mit me to remain in the city with an aged-relative, who  dec-ipit
and long ainvalid, whom it would be fatal to.attempt, to  move
froi her house. 'As, therefore, she cannot ivai  l erself of your
permission to leave with others, and as, I cannot, in 'dty;desert
hurii 'her'infirmrities;I respectfully ask' of' our eileleiy per.
mission to remain quitly in our hose under the. piectib of a
es     sinmilar to tiat You have granted to'someothier fame

;=  . d
__
;?
'
M
,
,
-
.
°    ''
.-;
;
.
.1
,tip
%s
a
a.
,
Eat
','t
a,
ir
;
t"
a
t
~.
ja.
I                             :t
¢
1                  bt
/ _i

i

L
r                        ,                                           _                       i       '       " i            t


4
.This is her letter,'' remarked the general, with some sharp-
" It is to deceive you, sir. I know her well, your excellency.
She is as talented as she is beautiful, and proud as she is patri-
otic."
Boks &amp; Stationery,
Teas, SarS, Coffees,
Stuart's Syrup,
Drugs and Medicines,
Pure Wies 'Liquors,
[For Medical P rposeay:]
Wooden Ware and
Fancy Goods.
Comprising eve     quality and description .f the
bove Goods.  tat received, and for sale a t  %,
at Wholesale CASH PRICES.
Pesorks wishing    to safe:25 per cent. ii t htpur-
chaseof the a ove-zamed Goo  ill no ffil ex-.
amine my     before urohaig elsewhere.
A ftill 'and dompTht Stock     f BOKS, at geal
reduced prices. W'-Call and See, at the Sign of
THE LARGE RED MORTAR.
LiOll sla, N. Y. Agust.1, '1852, k  F{    JV4J,
Bey nu, and..also n    o  br ed the gd i a l   A '
hin  ing  i   g  .                             - ,.  :J3
"Ye s :Qtr excellen y  he ist Wenty #erh p,
reg    ' " ie.s of Odoatie.".
Sd-o0 ntwish tst snuh a pe00 d    1o$4 1       -
ing'his head.

5

0. P. HUNT,
AT GRAY'S OLD STAND,
Loban's Block, Little Falls, N. F.,
Is now receiving, and keeps constantly onhand, a large and splen-
did assortment of best quality of
Medicines, Chemicals, Paints, Oils,
Dye-Stufl, Turpentine, Copal &amp; Japan
Varnishes, Camnphene,
PURE WINES&amp;rLIQUORS FOR MEDICAL PURPOSES.
PATENT MEDICINES,.
Supporters, Trusses, Shoulder Braces,
FANCY GOODS, CONFECTIONARY, &amp;O.
Buffalo  Qombs,-Back,  Hat, Nail and Paint Stationery Articles, Pa-
'I3ressing and Pocket,  Brushes,             pers, Envelopes, Wa-
Toilet Articles, Pocket Corn Starch,,         fers, Gum Labels,Seals
Books and Wallets, Roots, Herbs, Extracts; et cetera,
Cords, Twines, Wicks, &amp;c Tooth Powder,      Perforated Board,
Baskets, 1ats, Matches, Cutlery, English &amp; Ger- Lead Pencils,
(id  Vinegar,GlassPut-  man, fine &amp; common, Needles, Pins, flmery
ty, Glue, Sand Paper, Perfpmery . and Soaps, Cushions,
Wooden Ware,            English, French and Steel Pens, Pen Holders,
tooth Brushes, English  German,             Rushton, Olark &amp; Co's.
and French, best qua)- Cologne Water,       Cod Liver Oil,
ity in the U. States. aLubins Extracts,     Fire and Weather Proof
Hair i~s ~Extracts of Vanilla and       Paint,
Shaving   ateilale,    Lemon,              Barrs Tricopherous,
. acker's Farina,  .   Bird Seed and Cuttle Dried Fruits, of various
Hair Brushes, English &amp;  Fishbone,            kinds,
F  Ch; also, Cloth, Stone Ware,            luid Lamps, &amp;c. &amp;c.
A vey full Stock, bought at bargains, and offered on very reasonable terms'
Fresh Teas-Youn Hyson and Hyson Skin, Imperial, Gunpowder,
Bak, Pouchong and Canton.
COFFEE.
Ja Lag ua, Rio, St. flomingo, and Roasted. Spices-Cardamons, ase-
'sin fds!Mace, Nutmegs, Cloves, Cassia, Pimento, Ginger, Pepper,
Mustard.
Loaf, Crashed, Pulverized, Clarified, Porto Rico, New Orleans, St. Corix.
Molasses.-Stewart's Refined, Porto Rico and New Orleans.
)ute;Raiuins in box, and i and 4 boxes, Sultana or Seedless Raisins, Or-
anges and Lemons, Figs, English Currants, Citron, Prunes,
Almondo, Madeira, Brazil and Pekin Nuts.

I


7

I I have placed the proofs of her capability to do you mischief
in your excellency's hands," responded the young man, biting his
lips and looking vexed, as if fearing that the object at which he
aimed might be defeated, after all his efforts to effect it. -1
"Yes; the proofs are clear enough. She has done enough for
- her rebellious uncle, and for Hancock and Adams;, to, forfeit, her
head as well as they," he responded, with angry decision. "Bk
having her in my power I may not only obtain papers of impor-N
tance iui her hands, but have a hold upon her disloyal uncle, and
bring him to terms.  The arrest shall be made !"
MORSE'S MARBLE WORKS,
lfohawli, N. Y.
MONUMENTS, HEADSTONES, &amp;c.,
O THE LATEST AND MOST APPROVED STYLE OF FINISH,
kept constantly on- hand at reduced prices. ,
TABLE TOPS and PIER TABLES furnished to order.
e All orders by letter' promptly attended to; and work deliv-
ered free of charge.
H. DUFFIN, M. D.
Resident Physician and Surgeon.
Office, a few doors East of the Benton House, Main Street,
LITTLE FALLS, N. Y.
KALISKI'S
CVIIAP CLOTHING STORE,
Corner of Main and Ann Sts., Little Falls, N. Y.
READY MADE CLOTHING of every Grade and Style Kept
Constantly on hand at prices lower than they can be obtained else-
wDhere.                                            f      l
Thus resolving, the British general seated himself at his table,
and wrote hastily a few lines, which he read over to himself, and
then placed in the hands of an orderly,-whom he called from. the
hall.. The man, receiving the note, touched the front of his cap,
and departed to place it in the hands of the officer to-whom it was
addressed. As the door closed upon him, the face of Jenkins
Wolsey, the rich tory colonist, lighted up with malicious signifi-
catibn.
"aYou seem 'to be pleased, Wolsey !" said the general, who
could not but remark the expressionof elation on his face.
Yes, your excellency ; I am always pleased to: see the ene"-
mies of thecrown secured from doing mischief."-:

Where shall.I imprison her ?" asked the general, as if per-
plexed to know what he should do with his fair prisoner after ar-
resting her.  This inquiry was not addressed to any one, but was
rather thinking aloud.  "For my life I don't know what to do.
with her."
- Place-her on board of one' of the ships of war, sir," suggested
Wolsey; "it will be difficult to effect her escape from one ; while
in the -oity she may elude the vigilance of guards."
" That is the suggestion.  I will send her on board the George,
and entrust her safe keeping to her old gray-headed captain, Grif-
fith.  1ewill be an honorable and safe jailor for her, and can
give her one of'his cabins. That affair is settled !"
At that moment two or three gentlemen of his staff were
announced, and Jenkins Wosley glided out of the apartment with
the step andlook of a ma' who has been doinga disgraceful thing,
and fears to meet the full gaze of honorable men.
WHOLESALE' &amp; R ETAIL
GROVERT STORE!
At the Brick Store, on Main St. Little Falls, N. Y., have on hand a large,
entirely new and carefully selected SToCK OF GooDs, consisting of
GROCERIES, PROVISIONS, HARDWARE, PAIN r'&amp;                OILS
which they offer as low as can be purchased in this market for cash or credit.
Their Stock is composed in part of, the following articles, viz.
'TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS AND MOLASSES,
of every grade and quality.
FRUITS, SPICES AND LIQtORS OF ALL KINDS.
'PROVISIONS OF THE CHOICEST K NINDS,
(AND MOST DESIRABLE .FOR FAMILY USE)
Consisting of PORK by the barrel or smaller quantity ; FIOUR of Su-
perfine Brands;- FISH of all kinds, dried, and pickled ; SALT, fine- and
coarse, bbls. and half bbls., together with a large assortment of miscellane-
ous articles, .enibracing Cordage, Twine and Wicking of all description.'
In addition to which they keep on hand almost all kinds'-of LIMBER
consisting of Spruce Shingles, Sawed Lath, Dressed Floor Plank, Boards,
Joist and Scantling, all of which they offer at the lowest market price for
ready cash or. approved credit.
'her, stands at this day a venerable house in the centre' of
(the city, which still bears an air of aristocratic respettibility in
its elaborate front and massive style of architecture within.-
owards, this house, about nine o'clock in the evening, and abQut
two hours after the issue of the order of arrest of the 'young
rebel lady, a file of eight soldiers advanced, led by a British cap-
tai .  There was a yard in front, in which ' stood two large eyes
more.trees, through the inopending" branches of which s light
shone out from.the parlor windows on the .east wing of, the man..
.,o

:  ,,
;
;
rt
s
:*
'c
.
F" £
r
's
Tai
'i
LL


f
i
i
A
QF1
E
f
5
R
I
9
S

" Halt !" commanded the officer in an under tone, The fle of
soldiers halted in front of the gate, which the officer softly opened
and passed through alone. The lower shutters of the wi dow
were drawn, and he could not look into the room ; but listening,
he could hear the sound of a female voice.   He returned to his.
BOOKS, STATIONERY,
MONTHLY PERIODICALS &amp; CHEAP PUBLICATIONS,
Having made arrangements to receive Packages by Express
weekly, we shall add to our already large Stock of Books, allnew and Popu-
lar Works as soon as they are published. All Monthly Periodicals received
as soon as issued.,
Our Stock of Literary, Miscellaneous, School and Blank Books, is the
largest between Albany and Utica, and being the only dealer in Books in
Little Falls, a FULL STOCK will always be kept on hand, to supply the
wholesale and retail trade. Also, STATIONERY, in large quantities and
of every description, at lower rates than small dealers can buy for.
REDUCTION OF PRICES ON
AT THE
VARIETY STORJ
An increasing business warrants us in still reducing p ices. on
Drugs and Medicines, Dye Stuffs, Perfumery, &amp;c., on which we have al.
ready saved to the consumer over 20 per cent. As a guara tee fonq}tr
ask your Physician.
3A&amp;TEXT saEDWIaMEs
reduce from 1-8 to 1-4 from usual rates.
Jayns'a 8s. Medicines for 7s. Moffat's 8s. for Os. 6d. 'onsend4'Se: for
Bs. 6d.,and so on through the whole catalouge.
T R USSE S
of all patterns; anew one just received, the best thing ever invente$
PANTS,
Oils, Glass and Dye Woods, in large or small quantities, at pricsL to be
undersold, every article warranted-[Receipts gi'atis for Dyeing.D
We can ell the above goods cheaper than any other oonpeu t tl
o                 eaaavinthefacilities for and Extensive Grocery Trade, we shallhereate
Hairge Stock of every variety of GROCERIES,htoerei ale
p  etail, at our usual low rates. Also, Fresh Ground  tern'flour,
rk; 'ish, Salt, &amp;cU  Our prices are uniform, and our-terms CA"
The best Stock and qualities for the prices, (varying from is. to 6s.,) evrv
ogered in little jF    sampl-OTSles.
TANREENOTIONS.
In endless variety, Steel Goods, Clocks, Melodeons, from $6= tq  4  Flug,
Viclns,.Feuit, Guns, Window Shades, Wooden Ware, Bird C   and an
en es Variety of Goods for allof whichyou canhave our prices, heu yu
will be prepared to make your purohasee safely. TERM  C .S1
A. ZOLLER.

rq"h{
"Il
IYf
r  yyF
j lf7
.F3
it
f
ai
* rp
. 1
4        i
FiJ
1..
,5;

Little  alls, 1662.

small escritoire in the room:from which the light came, raised her
head quickly, and placing a sealed letter in the (hand .of a tall,
h andsome  ung man in ahalf-military costume, she said eatnest-
hy:
A 

(I

9
mei, and having ordered two to the rear of the house, he lifted
the brazen lion's head and knocked at the front door, and at
the same time trying to open the door, which he found strongly
secured.
At the sound of the knock, a young lady, wiod was writing at a
LITTLE FALLS CASH STORE?
10 TO 15 PER CENT SAVED!
GOODS BOUlGHT FOR CASH AND SOLD FOR CASH 1I
Keeps the largest stock and best. assortment of
Goods in Herkimer County-.
DRESS GOODS,
Black and Colored Silks, Poplins, Merinos, Par-
amettos, Delaines, Cashmeres, Ginghams, Merrimack Prints, &amp;c., &amp;c.
MEN'S WEAR,
French, English and Domestic Cloths, Cassi-
meres, Vestings, Kentucky Jeans, Sheep's Grays, Sattinets &amp; Tweeds &amp;c. &amp;c.
DOMESTICS,
Bleached and , Brown Sheetings-all widths,
also Tieking, Striped Sheeting, Cotton Yarn, Carpet Warp, &amp; Batting,
ALSO
Carpeting; Floor Oil Cloth, Mahogany Cloth,
1OOTS, SHOES &amp; RIJBBERS &amp;0,
Every article is warranted . as represented, and
as low as can be bought elsewhere, if not it can be returned and money 're=
funded-TERtMS CASH.

S. N. FOOTE.


s

"Go ! do not delay a moment? Colonel Warren must have
this before day."
The young man hastily threw    over his dress a countryman's
coarse, blue frock, placed upon his head a slouched farmer's hat,
and taking the letter, placed it in the bottom of one of his etarse
brogans.  Again the knock was repeated, heavier than before.
"This looIs no good, Lawrence," said the young girl. " Do
not linger !  Everything depends on your quitting the town in
safety."
J. W. HELMER'S OLD CROCKERY STORE.
The Subscribers having taken the Store two
doors west of T. Burch &amp; Co., in the Village of Little Falls, familiarly
known as the " Crockery Store," take this method of informing their friends
and the public generally, that they are-now opening and offer for sale the
MOST EXTENSIVE and EtL1GANT STOCK of
DIY GOODS
hat can be founj in the County.            Also, a     choice
and general assortment of Flour, Pork, Fish, Sugars and Molasses of supe-
rior grades with nearly every description and quality of
FAMILY GROCERIES.
Also, a- prime, full assortment of English,
French and American
BROADCLOTHS AND CASSIMERESI
Also, rich figured and plain SILKS, Ginghamsp
De Laines, Lawns, Shawls, Bonnets, Scarfs, Gloves,.Hosiery, Flowers, and
Mournin Goods of all descriptions.-
SHE ETINGS and SHIRT NG,S all kinds ;
Linens, Umbrellas, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Batting, Carpet Warp, &amp;c.
Also, Nails, Oils, Paints, Dye-woods, Glass,
Sash, Putty, Hardware, Cutlery &amp;c. Country Produce takenin exchange
for Goods.

Little Falls, 1852.'

GREEN, R EA LS &amp;O.

"If danger menaces, I cannot leave you, Miss Elizabeth, said
the youth, respectfully and earnestly.
"t You, will show but the sincerity of your friendship for me, by
obeying," she answered, with an air of resolution.
"I know I am presumptuous to hope, where I am so lowly and
you so far above me, but--"
Mere the speech of the young colonist was interrupted bya
third knock, louder and more imperative than the last; kissing
her hand respectfully, he obeyed the entreating command of her
eyes, and instantly left the apartment.

He did not, however, on reaching the hall, go out by the door
by which he had an hour before entered, bearing a letter to the
lady from the camp of the army outside, but alarmed for her safety
by the loud knocking, he hurried to the upper entry, and went
out upon a balcony, from which he could look down into the front
yard and see who was at the front door. Upon discovering the
English officer, who at that moment had called his men to break
in the door, he flew to warn the young lady of the character of
her visiters. But in descending the stairs he came upon the
bayonets of the two soldiers who had come around by the rear.
Stand ! you are our prisoner !" they cried, presenting their
weapons close to his breast.

I
The largest assortment of Stoves ever offered
for sale in.erkimer County, and at prices that defy competition. Also,
M'GREGOR'S PATENT CAULDRON FURNACES
with all the fixtures for Dairying purposes; :Cistern
Pumps, Chain Pumps for Wells. Lead Pipe, Sheet Lead and Zinc. Togeth-
er with the most extensive assortment of
to be found west of Albany.          All of which will b
sold at a reduced pricefor cash. At the shop of the subscriber, corner of t
Main ahd Anu sts. Little ails, Nov, 1, 18692..
W.-T. WHEELER.,
"Quick as lightning, with a countryman's staff which .he held
in his hands, he knocked{their glittering bayoaees down,-and dish=
ing :the men outside, .in a moment stood in the presence of the
young lady.
:4It is you they have come to arrest ! Fly with me, dearest
Elizabeth !"
"And leave my dying aunt?      Escape with the dangerous
papers you have on your person ! Do not 'fear for me !  They
are all that can convict nie or harm me ! In your instant escape
lies my fety !"

I

11

10

}


"-True ! I will hope the best ! They dare not harm you !'
4 You have not a moment to spare !" she cried. "The door is
broken open, and the hall is filling with soldiers ! Escape by that
way!"
The young man hesitated, as if balancing duty againstiduty,
and'the next moment opened a door on the south side of the
room, and 'passed through it. It was occupied by an invalid
female, who asked what was the cause of the uproar. He, how.
ever, did not reply. 'He felt that he had about his person evi-
dence that would imprison the young lady whom, though ;in hum-
J.A.PE RKINS DEN'lIST.
* Office in Fox's new     block directly over A. Zol-
ler's Variaty Store, Rom No. 1, where a better character of Dentist work
can be procured, at lower prices than at any other office in this country.
REv. Ma. MonRIs,                  HON. THOMAS BURCH,
- B. I. DIEFENDORF,             F LJAs.FEETER,
JOHN BROWN, M. D.,"F.,LANSING,
JAMES WHEELER M.-D.,             WM. BROOKS, Esq.,
JOHN F. SHARER,'.                ELI.AH REED.
DR. J. A. PERKINS.
Little Falls, N. Y.
DR. J. DIFFIN,
RESIDENT PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON:
OFFICE: OVER BENNET'S DRUG STORE
Main St. Little Falls N. Y.
N. B. The Doctor's card as printed on page 6, is erroneous, It is there-
fore re-inserted here.
bIe life himself, he loved -and trusting to the honor of British
soldiers to respect a lady, he hast'yned to secure the letter which
he -had no time to remove from his person and destroy.
bHe sprang through a window to the ground, and through the
gardens finally succeeded in reaching a boat in Back Bay, in which
he embarked-for the opposite shore, where the patriot army lay.
His distress and anxiety, as he rowed across the silent waters, ,can
only be imagined.  He at one moment ;condemned himself for
leaving her ; but the next, he :excused himself as he reflected that-
his own arrest would confirm the suspicions which had probably
led to:the visit of--the soldiers. - Having- reached the camp and
presented the letter to its address, a letter which detailed A plan
"bow-General H [lowe- might be surprised aheadd quarters, ' he
returned immediately to the- beseiged city, indiferent to his=own:
safety so long as be was left in suspense of that of the maiden.
Upon reaching the mansion about four o'clock in there morning

"
e
: _
:h}  .
N
1
t   t}
4
1      y
i   j
:
i
-r
:; .
'P
ri
Y
a;
I ?
o
1
i
t
. S
i-
_ A
5,
# .
F
2
C
i

18

he found a British sentinel on duty before it. The house itself
was still, and he resolved to gain access to it that he might learn
whether his fears were realized. To have questioned the sentry
would have been to expose himself to suspicion. He, therefore,
by a way well known to him as the bearer of letters to and from
the maiden, gained a poplar tree that stood near the west end of
the house. and by climbing it he reached the roof, through which,
by a trap door, he descended softly into the apartments of the
house. Upon reaching the parlor he found a light burning ; but
as he was about to enter, he started back with a cry of horror..--
Upon a table lay the corpse -of the invalid, just being laid out by
two old women. The'escritoire was broken oen, and books. ,pa-
pers and furniture strewn about in disorder.
He was about to enter, forgetting the risk he would run, for he
recognized. one of the old women as a bitter tory, when he heard
one say to the other :
CLOTHING EMPO IUM
Manufacturer of Ready Made Clothing, Main
St. Little Falls, would inform his patrons and public generally, that he has
just returned f om New York, where he has with great care selected the
largest and best assortment of Goods ever before offered in this market,
among which may be found Broadcloths, Cassimesps, Vestings, Tweeds and
Jeans, &amp;c.,'&amp;c.
Gentlemen's Garments and Boys Clothing made
in the most fashionableand neatest style.
N. B. Some of the best workmen are constantly
employed under the immediate superintendence of Mr. Jones; all work
warranted to fit the most fastidious taste, with regard to style making up
and fitting.
Mr. Jones assures those leaving         materials with
him, that he will warrant complete satisfaction, or himself sustain the loss.
" That is the first corpse I ever dreamed as died o' fright ! No
sooner had they carried off the young rebel miss, than she got
right up :out of bed, run in here, which she haint done for -five
years, screamed after her niece, and fell dead as a stone !"
"It was time she was dead'' said the other oil crone. "I
don't see the use o' folks livin' arter, they get to be bed-rid,
and are worse-than dead. What did the captain say he'd give you
for help layin' out
-" Two dollars !" answered the hag, chuckling as she bound the
jaw of the corpse.
- " That's what he promised me. It'll be a pretty job. I won..
der what they'll do with miss ?"
"I reckon they'll hang her ! They say she's been doin' enough
to hang ten rebels."

11


14

" It would be a mity pity to put a rope around her pretty, white
-neck," answered the other, with a shake of her head.11
" A pretty, white neck'll fit a hangman's rope as well as a dried
and shrivelled one like yours or mine !" responded the taller and
uglier of the two, with a sneer. "If we was found carrying on,
correspondence with the enemy outside, they'd hang us up high
as Haman. . Her beauty, I hope wont save her !"
"It oughtn't to ! A little vitriol sprinkled in her face will soon
spoil that !"
Lawrence heard all this with mingled interest and indignation.
That tha maiden was arrested, was now clear to him. But where
was she ?  In whose power was she ?  By whose order or infor'
mation ?

LAST

VILLAGE NEWS.

The Subscriber has removed to his NE W
BRICK STORE, on Main street opposite the Rockton House, where he is
now receiving, and will keep on hand a large assoi tent of
GROCERIES &amp; FAVIILY STORES,
which, in regard to quality and price, will not be
found surpassed by any of his neighbors.
HIS STOCK CONSISTS IN PART OF THE FOLLOWING:
Sugars, of every grade and quality ; Molasses,
Teas, Coffees, Lamp Oil and Candles.
FOREIGN &amp; DOMESTIC LIQUORS,
Pork, Flour, Salt, Tobacco Snuff and Cigars.
Farmers desiring CASH or TRA DE for their; produce are respectfully
invited to call and see. Little Falls, Nov. 15, 1852.
M. S VAN SLYKE,,
These were questions which he could not answer. He was'
about to enter the room'and ask them if they could tell him where
she had been taken ; but an instant's reflection showed him the
weakness of thus exposing himself; for he knew that he was sus-
pected of being a spy, and that men were on the watch to detect
him; and therefore did he:change his disguise every time he came
into town. His uncertainty was, however, relieved in an unlooked-
for manner.  The front door vras abruptly opened, and 'he only.
had time to wthdraw into a shaded niche, when the captain and
two soldiers came in, and crossing the hall, entered the parlor
where the corpse lay. Upcn seeing it he uttered an oath express-
ive of angry surprise.
"What ! not in her coffin yet ?"
" The man han't brought it yet, yer honor," answered one. 'of'

(

-
4   ..
' n3.

the women. "It aint our fault. We've yearned our four dol-
lars."
"Confound your dollars! This body must be carried out and
buried before day. It is the order from the General.  The sight
of it by day will raise a riot in the town, for they will say we
killed her. It is an ugly affair, and must be hushed up."'
" When is the young lady to be hanged, captain ?" asked the
short est of the'women. " I'd give a dollar to see it !"
" you'll not have that pleasure, old woman. She is to be kept
a prisoner,
" In the jail ?" asked the other.
" Not exactly. If you don't behave, you may get there !--
This young lady will probably be honored with a ship-of war for
her prison. And the G Ineral, by-the-way, desires meto find some
female who will be her attendant."
NEW HAT STORE
IN FULL BLAST !
20 PER CENT SAVED.
every description of Hats, Caps and Fancy
u,    eap for Cash. Also agent for the sale of Crane &amp; Co's. Cordage,
Shoe Thread &amp;c.
The Marston ' Manufacturing Co's., Patent
Breach Loading Rifles, Pistols, &amp;c.
Pistols, and    Guns    of every   kind   on   hand    as
cheap as the cheapest and as good as the best.
HOTCHKISS's PREMIUM CIIENILLE.MATS
AND RJGGS,
--:&amp;LS O-
MANUFACTURER OF FLAX &amp; FURNITURE STUFFING
Highest Price paid for Flax in the Bundle.
OPPOSITE BENNETT'S DRUG STORE.
° ~E. F HOVEY1.
"'Be locked up with her ?"
" Not exactly locked up. She will have a cabin to herself.--.
You will do to wait on her. Will you take the' office i"
"For gold !" answered the crone, extending her thin bony
hands.
" You shall have a guinea a week."
"Done," answered the woman. "I am ready."
"Be at the end of Long wharf at eight o'clock, where you will
find a boat going off to the George frigate. I shall be there to
take you on board with me," answered the officer.

(

15

j
I
S
s
,T,
'
J
J
s'^jr
1}
_
i.
J    _
i
t;
4
..b
: 1
," S
f
iy
'J
i
f
w
i
S
e'
t


16

At this moment a soldier came in, followed by the undertaker,
carrying upon his back a rough, pine coffin, in which to place there
body of this delicately nurtured and well-born lady. ;t yvp, rudely
nailed up, and on the shoulders of four men was carried forth and
buried by torch light in an obscure corner of the Granary burying-
ground--buried as murderers bury their victims. - Lawrence had
followed it a distance unseen, and beheld where they laid her, that
he might be able to inform the young lady, her niece, should he-
ever behold her again.
He knew where she was to be held a prisoner ; and he took his
way from the grave towards the water-side. It was just break of
Fralilk's Cash Store!'
THE GREATEST PLACE IN LITTLE FATJLS TO MAIZE
SPLENDID                   BARGAINS!
A. FRALI        K   'would   respectfully    notify   the
public in general a  his friends in particular, that he has just returned
from New York with the most extensive and varied assortment of
DRY GOODS, FANCY DRESS GOODS, &amp;c.,
ever shown, in       this  market,      He    has   also  the
further pleasure of announcing that having been fortunate in making" his
purchases, his sales will be equally fortunate tothose who favor him with
their trade.
To enumerate the endless variety of which his
stock is composed would tire the reader. Suffice it to say, that from the
richest of
BROADCLOTHS AND SILKS,
down to    jtck-knives and wooden combs, he               has
every thing which is desirable, useful, fanciful or pleasing. His,
*ILUnEBY DEPART KNT ,
is richly and elegantly supplied. Bonnets &amp; Bonnet Trimmings for winter
wear, Laces, Ribbons, Hosiery, Gloves, &amp;c,, &amp;c., in any quantity and of all
descriptions, and every article in his store, offered at the most astonishingly
tow cash prices. Nov. 15, 1852.
ADAM FRALICK.
day when he found himself on the pier-head from, which the
British boats embarked to the fleet at anchor in the harbor. He
was still dressed as a farmer, with his goad-stick in his hand.  As
the red, morning sky deepened into the glory of sunlight, he
searched with his eye among the ships for the George frigate) as
if he would know it instinctively.  But he at length resolved to
wait until eight o'clock.
" Perhaps," said he, as he sat down upon the end of a spar, and
gazed wistfully over the water, "perhaps she is not yet taken on
board. Perhaps they will bring her down at eight o'clock."..

17
Xt seemed to him as if the time would never arrive. iiis s
pense was exquisitely painful  She whom he loved above all
earthly objects, was in the hands of her enemies, either in, the
tows or on board one of the ships. In either case, she -was help.
les and in their 'power. Resolutions to effect her rescue filled his
mind. But how to effect it, or What he should do, he could hot
conclude upon. le tried to wait patiently until eight o'clock
cae, hoping then something definite would be re Baled. Seated
is his coarse frock and brogans and slouc'ied har s' hat, leaning-
ing upon his goad-stick, he saw the se idels pac  up and down
till relieved by the relief-guard ; he saw boats passing and.repass-
Ing from the fleet to the town ; he saw gay officers land and walk
up into th city, and others embark, le beheldboats,crowded
LITTLE 1AL1S JEWELRY STORE.
At the sign of the IG WATCH.
W. GENNET still continues at his store on
Mtain St.' AU kids of
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES, JEWELRY, AO.
always on hand and for sale as low         as can   bebo't
elsewhere. All kinds of
CLOCKS FOR SALE AS CHEAP AS THE CHEAPEST.
Particular attention will be paid to Watch and
jewelry repairing and all work warranted, as faras the artiole repaired will
admit of:
PIease cal 'and     examine iny goods and         prices
as there is no charge for looking. Little Falls; Nov. 15, 1852.
W. GENNET.
WIj troops,'rowed froin point to point. People came in numbers
on thp pier to gaze at the scene. 'But his attention was drawn
-o the prepence of Jen is  osley, who came lounging alone
.er piin, playing with a superb watch-seal,' and wearing richly
liaed clothes, with a-silver tilted sword at his side, and diamond
-lunkles in hjs polished shoes.
upon ,soeng this tna,,Lawrence's heart beat quicer, and a
jpi it 9f resentmient rose in his heart. He observed all 'his'move-
o        se.  a ismpdiately impressed with the suspicion that
Soft je arrest of the fpaiden.      These suspicions' were
ed ~ us.d, for ,he ws aware that J nkins Wo ley lsed been
nppqegsM su tr for the hand of lisabeth Hancock, and


I

18
that he held towards her, like all low-minded men, a feeling of
resentment !  Unfortunate is the intelligent lady who is addressed
by an inferior man, who may have only money to countenance his
presumption. Her refusal is the signal for his vengeance, as her
acceptance of him would be the seal of her degradation. Jenkins
Woesley had not the generosity to treat with civility the maiden
who hadwounded his vanity by rejecting his offer of marriage.
Lawrence, though of humbler birth, without fortune, and hav-
ing a good education, a fine intellect, courage, and his devotion to
her, found more favor in her eyes. Yet she loved him not well
enough to consent to become his wife. Moreover she said:-
"This is no time to think of ourselves. Let us give our hearts,
Lawrecee, to our bleeding country." Yet Lawrence did not hate
6AtSH 5!@Si'
The undersigned are daily receiving, ad have con--
stantly on hand, a large and desirable
Consisting in part of French, German and American CLOTHS, Cossimeres;
Fancy Cassimeres, Satinette and Sheeps' Greys, .Black Italian, Bro-
cade and Fancy Silks, French Merinos, Bombazines, Par-
amettoes, Coburgs and Alpacas, Delaines, Ging-
hams, Prints, Hosiery &amp;c. &amp;c. &amp;c.
Also, a large and most desirable Stock of
Shelf Hardware,
Nails, Russia, Swedes and English Irons ; English Cast and Blister Steel
'German, American and Spring Steel; Also, Climax, Eagle, Peeks.
kill, Premium and Side-Hill Plows ; Plow Castings,
Wheelbarrows, Shovels, &amp;c. &amp;c." &amp;c..
All of which we will sell at prices that def, competition. Call and examine
for yourselves at our Store, Main St. Little Falls, 1853.
P. &amp; E. REED.
ter. He devoted himself more assiduously to her wishes and her
happiness. "Though she loves me not," said he, I will be  near
her, and try to be happy in her siles, and- in listening to her
voice. I know I am too humble for her to look upon me ;  et, if
I may not be her lover, I will be her servant."  At the r  o  is
life he 'become the bearer of her lett ers to the patriot -hiefs.
For her sake he exposed himself to a dozen deaths. Without
bops of her love, he devoted his very life to ler interests. .
He knew that she had rejected Jenkins Wosley, with all his
wealth. He had, accidentally, overheard part of their interview.
He beard her say that :he would not and could not be tempted by
wealth without worth; and that "a luke-warm    colonist .should
never have her hand, though he were possessor of the Indies, and,

19
.had the manly beauty' of App~lo. "---Lawrence heard the bitter
anathemas with which the defeated suitor left her presence ; and
from that moment he looked on him as both his own enemy and
that of Elizabeth H incock.
When, therefore, he now saw him a few minutes before eight
o'clock, idling about on the pier fromi which the captain wes to
embark for the frigate, the idea flashed upon his mind that he was
aware of the arrest, and he added, half aloud, " perhaps he has
been an agent in it !"
No sooner did this suspicion enter the. mind of the brave young
colonist, than he resolved to watch him narrowly. In a few min-
utes the captain who had made the arrest,, appeared at the end of
the pier, and saluted Wosley, cordially.
Has for sale as low as at any other Store of like
quality, a large Stock of
eui~wii~&amp; LaQUf310:                     3
PATENT     MEDICINES, PERFUMERY, PAINTS OILS,
t  illiSI)JCOE      10,  ues Q  05, SiJ   tty,$      .
Dye Stuffs    with-printed .directions; Teas, Coffee
Sugar, Rice, Spices, Dried Fruit, Bird Seed,&amp;c.
He also Manufactures and keeps constantly on hand fresh
Camphene &amp; Burning Fluid.
-Old Camphene received in exchange on reasonable terms.
U                                    euAWAMLAIN3383,o
3OHAWK, N. Y., 1853.
" That was an unfortunate arrest, last night, captain, eh is he
said, in Lawrence's hearing.
" Yes. It would seem so: I regretted it. She is a splendid
girl! Her beauty and dignity overawed me ! I treated her as
if she had been-a queen."
" She can be haughty enough," answ ered Wosley.    The gen-
eral did right in arresting her. She is the most dangerous person
in Boston.
"And most captivating.   By the girdle of Hebe! she -.fairly
took my heart., She is not so much a prisoner as I agi!   Btu
here is the old woman whom Howe sends on board to wait on
her."


20

As he spoke the woman appeared. The officer called to a sear
man, who was waiting by a boat at the foot of the pier stairs, who
conducted the old crone on board.
" I am going to the frigate, Percival," said Wosley. " Here is
the generals permission,"
"I should like your company."
" Did you take her on board without trouble, last night ?'
"Yes she went with us like a lady, I felt my conscience smi-
ting me. Old Griffith, when I presented her to him, seemed all.
taken aback! lBe raised his little blue cap from his grey head
and bowed to the deck. When I told him she was his prisoner,
and that le must be respo-isible for her safekeeping, he looked
GRdCEO T, PROVISION STORE,
MEAT DIARKET, &amp;c, &amp;c.
WET &amp; DRY U OCERIES; RESH, SALT, DRIED
AND SiVOKEP MEATS:
Also, Flour, Fish, Salt, &amp;c. &amp;c., constantly on
hand and for sale at the lowest
cash &amp; market prices.
' CALL AND SEE, 4T THEIR STORE, BETWEEN           THE
RAIL ROAD AND RIVER.]
Little Falls, January 1853.
JRasE&amp;BaMOy                                         i
J. G. IIOUGH1TON, &amp; 00a
Little Falls, N. Y.
blank and uneasy, ButI saw him lock her up safely in the cabin,
before I took my leave."
Lawrence waited till he saw them embark, He then went to a
boatman and said, in the country dialect:
" Friend, I would much lice to have a nearer sight o' tiem  g
war-craft. with their black guns poking out o' them wind'e in th
sides. What do you ax for a bit of a row that *Wy ?"'
"Two-shillings, bumpkin !"
" Wall, there they be ; but its a mighty big pii&amp; to pafl
little paddlin' about."
Lawrence having entered the hired boat, directM th &amp;h
pull after the other boat.  He followed it until they 4a*t o
along side of one the frigates, aid tie party got 6a boMd.  'ir
the boatnian he leaitod that i 1ab "the George,' th'e  e  -I
caughtt;

,7.}:,
i,;
4i .
="..:
Y' 1:.
-'7t'' !+
i.
}
i :f
.  ,..
.  ;
''  i

,,;

-J.}
!'
.f
:
Y  .
.; tt
. *
{
r
,'
,r _
:
i'-y
",
,'1
_ r  .
A"
,t
7
' .
(?
_ _a
.fii
Yr
S
a'        _
'
t
.',
elf
!S
i
t
N'
f

i
T
!
l

.,

,az
lik,
:ms
},
Q'

21
"Sposen you row mo round it, and let me see it all over, a bit,"
be asked of the man, while with a keen eye he was scrutinizing
every part of the ship which contained the maiden for whose safe-
LITTLE FALLS,
AVE FOR SALE AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, alarge and
desirable Stock of Goods, consisting of Dry Goods, Groce"
ries, Hardware, Iron &amp; Nails. Our Goods are expressly
adapted to this market, and will be sold as low as.at any other establishment
in the county of Herkimer. Our arrangements are such that we are cont-
stantly receiving the latest and most desirable styles, direct from Ihpbk-
ters and Manufacturers. We invite particular attention to our ex-
tensive assortment of Dry Goods, embracing every kind of Woolen
and Cotton     Manufacture required  for this section of country, viz.
French, German, English &amp; American Broadclothsy
Cassiueres, Sattinetts, Fulled Cloth, Vestings, Kentucky Jeans and Summer
Stuffs, Brown and Bleached Sheetings, Ticking and Batting, Cotton Yarn'
Twine &amp;c., and a beautiful selection of
LADIES DRESS GOODS,
Shawls of all varieties and the largest assortment of
kept in thie Country, comprising the following, viz.: 8 Ply Superfin d, Fine,
Double and Single Chain Ingrain, of the most improved quality and designs,
Hall and Stair Carpets, Rugs, Matts, Woolen &amp; Cotton
Druggets, Mattings, Oil Cloths, Window             Shades, Cur-
tain Materials, Paper Hangings, Fireboard Prints,&amp;c;
Looking Glasses, a good assortment of Boots &amp; Shoes, large
Stock of Superfine Flour and Salt, at wholesale and retail, Pork by
the Barrel and at retail. A large assortment of the most improved kinds
of Plows, Cultivators, Wheel-Barrows, Horse Powers and
Threshing Machines, all kinds of Dairy Utensils, suc as Kendallis
Patent Cheese Press, the best and' most convenien       one in use,
Dairy Steamers, Mott's Furnaces, Curd Cutters,
Cheese Tubs, Hoops, Pais, Thermometer and.Dash
Churns, Bandage, Strainer and              Pressing Cloths and
Anuatto, Novo Scotia &amp; Ohio Grind Stones, Florse
Raks, Grain and Cradle Scythes, two and three tine Forks, ee.
dte. ' We are enabled to supply Country Merchants with any of the
above articles, at prices which eantot fail to be satisfactory. With the assu-
rance that wedshall spare no effort,to render our stock attractive, cheap and
suf'ciently large-to induce customers from this and the adjoining counties.
We would respectfully solicit the favor of an early calc       t
-                BURCH&amp; CO.
Q. 1, Main Street, Litle Falls.    "


22         ..
ty, though she returned not his love with one ray of hope, he would
have laid down his life.
As they rowed under the lofty stern, he saw through the cbin,
windowss a female figure. A closer glinee enabled him to reodg-
nize the face of the'maiden. Bit scarcely had he discovered be
beforeshe disappeared.  He was no longer now in doubt.    He
knew where she was imprisoned. * But one thought took possession
of his bosom; this-was her rescue! But how should he attempt
the possibility ?  As he rowed round the ship he inspected every
part of it, observed the means of ascending and descendingits sides,
marked the position of evedy rope that hung over the sides.
But as he gazed upon the formidable battle-ship, bristling with
qE1ORE EASHI                                           'Yi
IMPORTER OF ENGLISH AND GERMAN
ZARDWABE, RAB R-aXNDBSWZEA
DEALER IN PAINTS, OILS AND OIL CLOTHS,
.'ERENCH WINDOW GLASS,
ShE ET LEAD    AND LEAD PIPE.
Sole agent for the celebrated French Zinc Pjint or Snow White;
also sole Agent for the sale of American Lo's Blasting &amp; Sporting Powder.
At the Sign of the GoldenKey Main street, Little Falls, N. Y.
January, 1853.
DEALER    IN
FLOUR, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL ;
HATS,    CAPS, FURS, 'BUFFALO           ROBES, TRUNKS,.
VALISES, CARPET BAGS, &amp;e. &amp;c.
IOne Door East of ASHLEY'S Hardware Store, Main St. Little Falls.
cannon, crowned with hostile men, and full three quarters of a
mile from the shore, his heart sank within him ; and he felt a sensa-
tion of despair creeping coldly about it.
"Will, bumpkin, how d'ye like the looks o' the kritter ?  Aint
she a tall one hey !" asked the boatman, patronizingly.
- His voice recalled Lawrence to himself; for he had forgotten for
the moment his assumed character. It was difficult for him to as-
sume it and its dialect in the present aspect of his feeling.
" Yes, it is a large ship," he answered as the boat once more
ame under the stern. '-Row in closer."                      -
The man obeyed until they were nearly under the taffrail, when
the-sentry ordered them to keep away.-  But Lawrence had io-
ticed all the particulars relating to the stern and treasured them in

I

1       I
T

his memory ; and now fearing detectiQn, he returned to the town,
resolving that he would rescue the maiden  or die with her.
Elizabeth Hancock, our patriotic heroine,was standing in the cabin
window looking afterthe boat as it receded, for spe thought she
recognized the disguise, of Lawrence there, when she heard her
name pronounced behind her.   Upon turning round, she .beheld
Jenkins Wosley, who had passed the sentry at her door by means
of a permit from Captain G iffith, mho jhad received orders from
General Powe 'to that effect.  The British keheral had been led
to believe by him that he could obtain from hcr facts of import-
ance to be made use of in the campaign. Iii a word he had per-
mitted Wosley to bribe or menace her into giving information.I
"Sir, whet brings thee here : she demanded haughtily. "Have
they made thee my jailer. 'IF   ty know well tl capelt.yV'and
h ow  o Aturoy mel 1"  ' J
A. R4ATH BUN &amp; CO'S.
LOURINGG AND CUSTOM M ILLS,
AT LITTLE FALLS, N. Y.
Where Flouring and Custom Work will be done on short notice and in the
most workmanlike manner. They keep constantly on hand and for sale,
Superfine and Extra Family Flour, from
by the load, barrel or smaller quantity. Corn meal bolted and unbolted ;
Coarse and-Fine Shorts ; Ship Stuffs, Middlings and 'Feed of all kinds.
CORN IN THE EAR CRASHID
and Corn Meal bolted for Customers without extra charge.
Merchants and Grocers furnished with Flour and Meal by the
load on reasonable terms. Twenty-five cents discount to those
who furnish their own Sacks or Barrels.
A.. Rathbun &amp; oo.
Little Falls, January, 1853.
"Miss Hancock, I am sorry for your misfortune and -.-"
" Sir, I do not deem any sufferring for my country a misfortune ;
and did I regard it so, I should feel it tenfold misfortune with
your sympathies added. Leave me, your presence here only insults
me and dishonors you."
" I have come to tell you I have your fate in my hands !" he an-
swered fiercely.
" So I have guessed., In reflecting by what malice or treach-
ery I have fallen into his snare, my mind fastened upon thyself as
prime mover."
" You have well guessed it. I did it !"
"Go and boast among thy fellows bow you have avenged your-
self on a woman !" she said, with a curling lip and flashing eye,
that cast upon him withering lghtnings of contempt.

28


24

Jenkins was awed, and felt his own insignificance; yet he thought.
he never -saw her look so splendidly beautiful. He stood gazing
upon her in a sort of stupid wonder.
"Are yon not going to leave me she demanded. "Ho, sir setitry,
without ! Remove this annoyance !"
"You shall suffer for this'!" he cried, black in the face.
" Not so much as now by thy very presence.  Two nights ago
you came to see me at my house, professing to be. a true patriot,
and sought my hand. 0, that I should have been so degraded as
to be the object of thy notice! When I refused the honor, you
swore vengeance. This captivity is your revenge ! Think you l
will hold words with thee ! I would die first ! Go, and leave- me
alone !"
Wosley left her presence, shaking his fngei at her menacingly,
and swearing in his heart vengeance,
The New World Cook Stove, and a great va-
riety of other patterns, including
BOX AND PARLOR STOVES,
FITTED FOR BURNING EITIIE WOOD OR COAL,
kept' constantly on hand at CRfESSY'S, at the
Sign of the Dust Pan,
directly opposite the Benton House, "where all
kinds of work in
SE'T IRON, COPPER AND TIV'
will be done in a workmanlike manner, upon reasonable terms. Call
and see.
Little Falls, Jan. 1853.            Wilt. H. CRESSYi
"What motive could have brought him hither ?" she murmured.
"Did he not know that I knew that this was his work ?  What
did he hope for ?  Did he know woman so little as to believe she
would give her hand from fear, where she could not give it from
love ?" . And she walke I up and down her gorgeously furxiiabe4
prison-house like a chained lioness. In beauty, courage and port
she looked a very Joan of Arc.
The third night after this scene, a boat stole out from. g little
cove under the Dorchester heights, and noiselessly pulled i the
direction of the British fleet, a mile off. It cofttained'twp persons,
oe of whom sat in the stern, while the other pulled the oars. ., The
boat was small, and very low in the water, so' that its guawale rose

=  r
t
F
t
4

Y
.
T,_: : j{ y
t   :
"  r
^lj
'p ,
W
,S
4Y
:
k
Yi
}
Ef
A'i$
i
.
:i',
^:
:
7 r.y
_
,S

scarcely two inches above it.  Both of the men were clad in gray-
. sh jackets, so that they could scarcely be distinguished from the
obscuiity a few yards off.
The [oat shot onward rapidly and steadily, a if directed by a
steady hand, to some definite accomplishment. In a short time it
came within the sphere of the outer vessels of the fleet.
" Row lightly now, Casar," said the voice of Lawrence, who was
in the stern. "Do not let a dip of your oar reach my own ear."
HE.RKIMlERPtJOURNAL
In third Story of Usher's Block, Main St., Little Falls.
Where all kinds of Plain and Fancy Job.Printing will
be executed in the best style known to the Art, on shorteOt.notice,
and moderate terms. ,AMONG WHICH MAY BE ENUMERATED,

PAMPHLETS,
VISITING 'CARDS,
'BUSYNEmSCARDS,
BALL TICKETs,
CHECKS,
RECEIPT BooKs,
BILL HEADS.

POSTERS,
PROD RAMMEj
HANDBILLS,
SHOWBILLS,r
CIRCULARS,
LAW BLANKS,
LABELS, &amp;C. &amp;C.

EVERY VARIETY AND STYLE Or
LRTTR I 9PRESPRITINS
(PLAIN OR IN CCLCRS)
EXECUTED TO ORDER' WITH NEATNESS AND DISPATCH,- AT 'fHE
. LOWEST CASH RATES.
A large and extensive assortment of Justice's, Attorneys and other Lew
Blanks, including Deeds, Mortgages, Road Warrants &amp;c., constantly on.
hand and for sale.
TERMS.-CAsH ON DELIVERY.
Little Falls, Jan. 1853.             0. SQUIRES, Proprietor.
" Nebber you fear, massa.  Dis nigger know wi at danger he be
in. l He don't want to be. hanged no more den white folk.  Nig-
ger neck break just as easy as white geurmens."
The boat continued on its noiseless and almost invisible course
until Lawrence saw the "George" looning up large and glooniily
before him, . Three battle-lantei ns, banging in the.rigging,-threw
long, red pencils of light across the water, aid in the stern window
of the cabit burned a star-lik blaze, like Pharos giding the 1oer
to bisistress.

25


4' That light is in the cabin where your young mistress is held
prisoner, Caesar,' said Lawrence.
4iAh, -massa Lawrence, I'm 'fraid we'll both be taken prisoners
wid her, before we its her out of dat drefful black war-ship."
"nothing is impossible with courage and devotion," answered
Lawrence, resolutely.  "Row on a little farther."
q' Not too near, mass. Dey sure see us, and fire de big ean-
di Royw on until I can just distinguish the sentry, and then we
EN      WrA                           ..          - w
Gga. Cd1is Pmilt. T.O. Gwimis, Treas. J. wi4Aers tjiTE Ct:gs .
D. C. G#6*sV. Pr's. W. H.DfRnax, Secy. J,. MeL_. etu4
Gao. CUOrTus          4. W. Cvwress,    PETER _*a rC ,
T. 0. GRANNIs,         . hJ M. WItLARD,  w;  .           -
Wg. H. DUDRICK,       "BRIDEN ECKER,    Ii5irIt .
Wu. GATES, Ja',     J, RANCIS ATES,     DANIEi, NMASo)
ANASA MANN.         JO)5N MORRIS.    .SAMiuE, J I COo
Wx. H. .aRi t, Cincinnati.  JOHN N. VRooII*, jgh . ady
SYLVANUS WaurT,   "        PETER B. NoxoN, Watervliet.
GEo, 4. ParrIUARD, "      T t). -A. WA;e s*, Peoria, Ill.
DAN't, EAl(i tRbT, ' "         - - MEb'DGS'   "    "u
Josskr W. Bbncl Nw-Yrk.
JoHN WARD &amp; Ce., 54 Wall Street, New-York; Jt S. T. STRANAEAN,
President Atlantc Do. Cot, 7A Broadway, New-York ; Wa gg  &amp; VED.
nsa, 78 Cortlandt s, aew-York; EVERTS &amp; OURTIS,248 'ufton St., New.
York; BEALS, -" rtLIbaK&amp; tbE WrIT, 5 Bridge at,, -eawYork ; Dowsn&amp;
0cntn, tI9 Uroad st., piqwYork; IpApo lyn-ra, 11$ Wetst,.-
o .;                                 IT    1,TIO SEY OUR, Governor of NIew-orkJ; S. B. GARTI , At
Attorn6f Oneidi County-.
WAftrpaying the Btockholders a fai tintet, o  the weaterW4U
awedS. F. ENNETT, Ag
~pe -1, ~g. If we cannot see him- he cannot tee us."
About fifty yards on they stopped, and Lawrence putn- 6 .
cook-jaeget,which h bhd tmade ofrthe p re, and nl
q4re abJttbit nets hotook a&amp;03 0Il f I ~trope "
a "  etr&amp;ed" a tna l lader of comd, w;eti ,n  e      ,
-"Remain stationary, Caesar. Be ready to give  1*     44

eed it !  Remember it is for your mistreat's liberty sad life we
incur this peril to-night.
"I be sure not run away, massa. I stay here if dey shoop #b.
bery big gun at me dey got."
"They cannot see you here in the darkness if you are quist,
aid don't go nearer.
"Nebber you fear massa Lawrence ; dia child be sure not go
nearer, dat certain.  I keep still as de tombstone !"
With a word or twomore of caution to his assistant, Lawrence
struck out from the boat, and swam in the direction of the ae y
I U      T           MM0ZNQ4N
MUSTANG LINIElt,
That has been creating so much eteitemenut in the
West and South, by during all the old, as well as nfl   re o  on man and
beast, has at length got among us. It is said to have no equal in
it will create great excitement among the Dectot,
as it is said to b e a perfect zemedy, and will cure a their 1thega1 i i
Scrofulous, ad     Leprous patients.       LiYer     Mt   4:
Keepers as weil as teamsters, farers and
will use it, as it is represented as being, a sure cure
for sparins, ring bones, splints, swellings, spwang,
poll-etils, fistulas, scratches, saddle or collar galls,
&amp;c.. We are told that a man in Illinois is going about tlee.country buying
up all the crippled horses he can, and healing their sores, and curing them
~ith the
adr4 then .seUjg them       ain ;a d    sle _     s mouey
by it., We.advise all those suffering from soRES or PAINS of any kind, to
$rW .                          SbF.         *
titte Fall, New.Vork-
of the f'te    The ehb tide carried him towardsit \ra '  , and
he non   and himsdf edd the otlrd pody-laiten      Te tide
nearly carrii  ntuader the conr ter,j;ut thertunely overcae
its 4roudeuIt bthe rudder with               ,.~4~*~~b  Arxe
for.ie purpose. there he held until-he' h ad rested,;i tienpro-
Q to scale the stern. This-was aifed that would have seem-
ei ip os ie; but nothing is inaurruountabeato love. WiRi1 al-
9                     h e  his , dedii realbin e o~f

27


28
now climbed this ten feet further, until he was opposite the cabin.
window, out of which the light had shone.
The real danger of his enterprise was now before him  Over
his head he could hear the tramp of the sentiy, and the steady
AND
maR UAKZU6,.0
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESS MAKERS,
still-continues at her old stand in Second St.,
a few doors South of Main, Little Falls)
where she keeps constantly on hand
a large and elegant variety of
BONNETS AND BONNET T IKIMINGS,
adapted to all Seasons of the year, together with a splendid assortment of
Caps, Laces, Ribbons, Artificial Flowers, and every'
other article usually found in a Millinery Establishment.
Thankful for past favors, She solicits a continuance of the public patron.
age.-                             M. 3. FRiALICK.
Little Falls, Jan. 1853.
. B. YOUNG &amp;GB@.
MANUFACTURE ERIS AND DEALtERS IN
FU RNITU RTE CH AIRS
AND CABINET WARE OF ALL KINDS,
METALLIC BURIAL CASES,
ALBANYST REET,
GEORGE B. YOUNG,             GLOVER S. YOUNG.
LITTLE FALLS, N. Y.
pace .of thie lieutenant of the deck. The least noise would have
betrayed him. With great caution he threw his coil of cord into
the window which wae -eight feet from himson a level. It caught
by the hook on the third trial. He then dropped the other enof

s
F
k^
r SAC

29
the ladder of cord he had brought with him, so that-from the win-
dow to the water there hung a safe and easy descent.
le now prepared to enter the cabin window, to inform the
maiden what means he had provi led for her escape. It was easy,
by means of rope which hung from the taffrail, to swing himself a-
cross the 8 feet space into the window. Bat would he find no sentry
there ? would he be sure that the window he should enter was that
which led into her state-cabin?  Bat hesitation Would not resolve
the doubt.  Action was demanded. He therefore swung himself
into the window and landed lightly upon the cabin floor.
31&amp;BKBEIIHINS,
In. all its va ions branches, is still continued at
their Old     tand, on Second St., in the,'Vil-
lage o Uttle Falls, a few rods North-west
of he Railroad Depot, by
-who are prepared to execute to order, all kinds of work in their line, in the
most substantial and workmanlike manner.
HORSE SHOEING AND CUSTOM WORKS
of every description, promptly and faithfully performed,, at fair and rea
sonable prices. They are also enabled through the aid of an
BXCELLUIT yATm                               OWR
to 'do the heavier kinds of Iron Work, used in
MIZLLS, MACHINERY &amp; &amp;RIGES.
They also continue the manufacture of '
OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY ; IN ADDITION TO wHIcH THEY ALSO MANUFACTUaD
STONE CUTTER'S TOOLS OF ALL KINDS,
made upon scientific principles and of the very best material; inshort,.eve.
Ty article in the Blacksmith Line found at any shop west of Albany.
Little Falls, Jan. 1853.   McCHESNEY &amp; FURNAM.
As he did so, he was startled by a loud outcry upon the deck,
followed by several strokes upon a bell. His heart leaped to his
throat? He naturally believed that he had been discovered, and
that the next moment would find him a prisoner. But the words
were distinguishable which he heard.  It was the sentry's cry :-
, "All's well !" and the eight strokes upon the beet tolled the hour
of midnight. The bustle that followed he found was caused by
changing the watches. Ha took advantage' of it 'by. withdr-awing
the curtains of a couch that stood on one side of the cabin.' The
light fell upon the calm and beautiful face-of the maiden sleeping.
it was pale and traces of tears were there. There was not a mo-


0

0

nebt to hoe! He whispet'ed her name. She started and stard
wildly upon him.
"Is it Lawrence ! Awake fully and do not hesitate to fly with
me. I have the means at hand if you have courage !"
" I have courage for anything, dear Lawrence," she answered
at once, fully aroused, and understanding his purpose. "But
how come you here?   How can-we escape ?"
Daguerreotypist
In   oxIs New Block, in the rear of the MOHAwK COURIER Offce
Little Falls. 1'J. Y.
G -L. 3OENSON,
MANUFACTURER OF
ininberaPltes for Streets, Iotels, Church Pew
Doorsy b&amp;c. b&amp;c.
ALL KINDS OF LETTERING ON                           LASS,
With Fancy, Ornamental, and Plain Lettering,.in   old, ilver,
BL-ooze and Fancy Colors.
11. .J... ... ............. N....... ........  ...  f..y...... . . ..1.  .  . 9. ......... ...  .  . . . '...................... ...H.... .. . .....
Orders, by mail or otherwise, will receive immediate attention. Ah1ss
C. L. JOHNSON, Fox's Block. Room No. 5,Second
-  leor, Y  ttle FalFg.N. Y.
BAKERY AND CO4CTIDARY ESTAWSJnEYI
°!sf  e4ICU'S STORES
We dings, Balls, Partiespand Private Families furnished w'th
a4 e .Cr     e  t. eve  e  ' riio
Cae c  rein , &amp;.&amp;  vry aetription of ilai
utzentai  fake said Cbo  oy n IhAxo ti~
to dedr.   ader  aituxl t te 4owest prices.
,I am*-adderdeading   roni thew-itdow 4  ;the water. A
asdj nebr. Wil you tenat our liyiand isafey to mr?)"
;esi"wsheesweed, seig his h     .
.  tiis  raaeketn.     m nade * expesyafrt           I
-bow    wiflt you. .Ad  lt .oeas s  .i e:u  dee  :     r.
0t8aVV'0(10a68uf,

Si
" Then descend and I will follow you.  When yon got to   1
water wait for me."
A fe moments afterwards both were safely in, the water, and
buoyed p by their cork floats, they were not long in gaining th
bt where Casar waited for them.
SADDLE, HARNESS. AND TRUNK

- CreMnn-
Corr             nd Ann St., opposite the Benton
House, ov .Wbeeler, :Ti, Slip,      oQfltaretly
Me nuflcturing
of different.styles, Plain and-Fancy ; also fine
DOUBLE CARRIAGE, AND DRF' HARNS,
Together with all such Articles as are usually founding a Sadder'mSpnu  far-
ticular pains taken ha the manufacture of
Name-Collars, Water-Hose, Fie-Buckets, &amp;c. &amp;c.
All artic~es m nufactured at bia shop will be ski .es chewa* he same
quantity of work can bebought in the SMte.
OPA:1 orders fo......~qp            y~*.~p
LiTmK FALLSJ, N. Y., 1853.
via
F&amp;$MR#     .4.   AT TT~                     m
HAVING AND SJHAMPOOI SALOON
Three oors East of the ThENTON HoEg Mai.St Little Falls,1.. Y
The success of, the young patriot. was cowpleto. In an hour
more helandedin the creek from whieb be  metde
lae     oeets as the firing4 -seannon frost the -P
board    ht     :darig escape had been.
doo la t a      o
We need "not add the lovers were marriedin., 4 q4o

I


\ 82
after tawrence had won a captaincy by his courage in battle. At
the end of the war he had risen to be a lieutena t colonel.   As
fot Jenkins Wosley his property was confiscated as that of a tory,
and he was subsequently taken prisoner by General Knox, and
would have been shot as a spy, if our heroine had not successfully
CHAR L E S                . B YA NT, M. D.
O  ee in Main St., over L. F. PEPPER'S Shoe Store.
In addition to
the usual course of
study, Dr. BRYANT hav-
ing qualified himself for the
practice of Homoeopathy, respect-
fully offers his professional services to
those who desire to avail themselves of the
advantages of that system of treatment. He re-
fers to the Profs. of the Albany Medical College, and
also to the following  Homoopathic Physicians: Henry D.
Caine, M. D., Dr. D. Springsteed, Albany, N. Y., and Dr. C. Sumner,
Otsego county N.4 Y.
Little Falls, February 1853.
afttotitCh        am       1ounc      Lor     dat  Clat.
ce over G. AhIcy' Elardware Store,
Main St., Little Falls, Herkimer County, N Y,
OrICE IN UsHER's BLOCK, Directly urder the Office of the Herkimer
County Journal, Main St., Little Falls, N. Y.
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW:
Omee in PETRIE'S BLOCK, opposite Zoller's
Variety Store.
Corner of Main and Ann Streets, Little Falls, N. Y.
pleaded for his life. What became of him afterwards is not .cer-
tainly'known.   Thus end we one of the stirring romances of our
revolutionary history, which is more rife with heroism than the
. history of 'heme or Greece.

f


  
             
         
       
   
