
    ----CITATION----
        Robertson, J. R.. The Brinkley Female College Ghost Story .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7604
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Brinkley Female College ghost story 
            
               THE, ,,
1"     F I  i ,r     .'   s ;* .r     ,   ,    ,  }   r.  .        l~: g  /;
,.                   I D N FIT S  O P E N IN G  A N D  C O NE N T ,
A Thrllig b   Nrrative, Based upon Facts,
t      ,BY  . U.ROBERTSON.

r   itt el= ccor~in  t At Or !  w   j l PTi~t~tr  o it  rt pf Unitcd S 'Lt  ,ar o :i  }
F _  ,      ';"  +f !"!'  (^ ' ,   , by   J". O *LO  .
-  1  ; .  o ,  ,  .  'lir ,  'l  y,    r + u t   - + u n  .   . '4 1r  . °MRO  i 5      '},Q I,,    y
.  l J  4   F  1    { jr,, '  r''  +  1 a  .. af.  Y _ 8'i tf

It A

ii

a
,;
*

J
i

""    .t
^ trtf            i  1JN ' -

,,rl   ,
,
:  '
.1      _           y,
l        '.


Vr

AN MITiNgSTORT.
Brinkley Female College Haunted and in an Uproar of Terror and Con-
fusion---A Speculative Apparition on the Ownership of the
Property---Singular and Startling Revelations,
Do disembodied spirits haunt the scenes which-they frequent-
ed while in the-flesh ? It is a mixed. question ; the theory' that
they do having as firm believers as it has disbelievers. Much has
been written on the subject pro and con, and much has been said,
but still mankind are disagreed, and can only unite in a partial
indorsement of the words which the immortal hard of Avon put
into the mouth of the melancholy Prince of Denmark, that lea-
ven and earth contain more things than are conceived or dreamt
of in our philosophy. Everybody has heard and read of ghosts,
but we know of no one who has seen an article of that descrip-
tion--at least we never knew of one till now. But to our story,
which is full of strange and startling incidents---incidents so
strange that they will scarcely be credited by the most cred-
ulous.
dSouth Memphis was in a furore of excitement over occurrences
of, a supernatural nature recently made puplic, and which eon.
ceened the Brinkley Female College, and its inmates._
.fhe college is a spacious frame structure, with rather a
sornbre and dreary aspect; situated at or near the inter-
section of Georgia and ieSoto streets. It was once a palatial
residence, or intended as such. but for several years past has been
used as a school for young ladies. under the direction of Mr. Me'r-
ideth, the'building having been devoted to that purpose by Mr.
R. C. Brinkley, its reputed owner,  It is said to have ruined its
builder and original owner, and the place has borne the reputa-
tion of being haunted for some time, but as this, was never in any
way.satisfactorily accounted for, the suggeston of its. being the
habitation of things unearthly was dismissed as growing simply
out of the isolated situation and weird aspect of the structure, to
which may be added surroundings, which strike the visitor as
decidedly unattractive. If there be ghosts of the departed
on earth, it isiust such a place as such things would select for a
trysting or abiding place, or rather it is just such a looking place
as one would be inclined to associate with spirits and things su-
pernatural.
The school numbered beteveen forty and fifty pupils of various'
ages, and of teachers, including the principle and his wife, there
were some six or seven. The system of education was about as
usually found in institutions oi4its class and the full course in-
clude music and the classics. Many of the pupils came from afar
anl were boardors.at the institute, but not a few who reside in

S
the &amp;tv, and near the college, were but day attendants. Among
the latter was a Miss Clara Robertson, daughter of Mr. Robert-
son, ai attorney, residing on )eSoto street, between Vance and
Elliot streets, Her age is about thirteen years, and her temper!-
ment is of the nervous kind, while her health is rather whrt might
be called delicate. Some eight months ago she experienceI r'lig-
ion, and has ever since been a model of strict religious propriety,
She has never been in any way connected with things supernat-
ural or put trust in spiritualists. Her experience with affairs
claimed to be supernatural within the last two weeks, however,
are more wonderful and startling than the Mysteries of Jdolpho
or the horrors of Kenilworth Castle,
One evening, Miss Clara was alone in one of the upper rooms
of the institution practicing her music lesson ; an apparition
suddenly appeared before her in the shape of a girl about eight
years of age, with sunken, lustreless eyes and strkingly emacia-
ted form and features. The object was virtually a skeleton in
appearance, clad in a. dingy and tattered dress of faded pink,
which was partly covered with a greenish and slimy mould.  It
seemed also to be transparent. A sad e pression re ted on the
features of the strange visitor. Natural y frightened,  ran
into an adjacent room and sprang into bed with a sick girl, at the
same time motioning with her hand to the unsightly object to be-
gone. The apparition advanded, however, with slow and noise-
loss steps to the bedside, and laid an emaciated hand on the pil-
low, while Clara, aghast and speechless with terror, was nearly
thrown into spasms, but all the time motioned away the object,
which finally disappeared through aside door, as noiselessly as it
had entered. The affrighted girl told her adventure, and it at
once became the all-absorbing topic of conversation, throughout
the school meeting with belief, disbelief and ridicule,- The ma-
jority were more or less frightened over the strange tale unfolded.
but songe few made so much fun of it as to mortify Clara to tears.
She told her teacher and parents, but not only failed in obtain-
ing their belief but was reprimanded, her father telling her it
was only a trick put upon her by some of the girls, and ordering
her to return to school the-next day, which order she obeyed
with reluctance and trembling.
The apparition did not appear next day, and Clara's tranquil-
ity of mind was about restored. Perhaps, after all, it was only a
trick.. On Thursday, however, while pracicing upon the pianp in
the same room, two other young ladies being present, she was
startled by an unusual noise as if by some water being dashed
over the floor, and on turning her head ip the direction of- the
sound, was dismayed by the appearance of the same spectral
looking visitor of two days before. . It was seen by all three,
more distinctly by Clara than the others, and the trio fled in ter-
ror from the presence of the fearful apparition, ghost, goblin or
whatever it might be. The story was again told, and was, ridi-

L

a


4

culed as nonsensical, as in the first instance, notwithstanding the
testimony of the young ladies who were in the room with Miss
Clara, to whom, however, the figure appeared rather shadowy,
though to their friend it was well defined and distinct.
On Tuesday the ghost appeared at the same place, and un-
der like circumstances.. Miss Clara ran down:jhe steps in great af-
fright and trepibling like an aspen, related the occurrence to Miss
Jackey Boone, one of the teachers, who induced the girl to return
with her to the music room. As they opened the door, the figure
stood plainly to view to Clara, but only imperfectly in the ' eyes
of Miss Boone. Induced to! address her strange visitor, Clara
asked what it was doing there, and what it wanted.  Pointing a'
thin ghastly looking finger in a southerly direction, the ghost
replied that under a stump, some fifty yards from the house.
were secreted some valuables which she would have Miss Clara
take possession of, and use to her advantage. Miss Boone heard
a rumbling noise, but could not distinguish any words, but a
pupil,present at the time relates that words similar to those heard
by Miss Clara, were distinct to her ears also.
Having spoke as above, the object vanished through the garret
door as on each former occasion. i Dismay now prevailed thropgh-
out the institute, and there were none to ridicule or question.
Clara Robertson related the full particulars to her father
when she went hoie on Tuesday night, wh( next day visited the
college and had a consultation with Mr. and Mrs. Meredeth about.
the-matter. It was agreeed that the affair should undergo a
rigid investigation, as it was doing no good to the reputation of
the college, while little ClaY-a was much troubled and disturbed
in mind.
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith believing they were being duped by
some practical joker, undertook to invistigate the matter.  With
this object inview, they on Thursday had every pupil of the col-
lege assembled in one of the halls. Miss Clara was sent into thi',
yard while the remaining scholars were being questioned and
ex: miied. She walked quietly around the house, and, while
engaged in pointing a pencil some fifty yards from the building,
the apparition suddenly appeared before het, not rore than half a
dozen feet away. She'attemptedto scream, but the visitor spoke
quickly, in a mild, pleasant tone, and said. " Don't be alarmed.
Clara, my name is Lizzie.  I 'gill not hurt you."  Clara stood
transfixed with terror. The vision spoke again and in a distinct
tone related that theBrinkley college property was hers byoright,
title, and, that its present pretended owners held it illegally,
having no shadow of a claim whatever.  That there was no one
else to claim it, as he' people were all deed, and she herself was
the last one that had died; She desired Clara to obtain the papers
which she had previously mentioned to her, and with then in her
possession, claim and yiet tin -the property-in her own name and .
right. Unless she did Eo, it never would do any-good to or for any

one. Of course this soon spread among the usually quiet people
of South Memphis. Several young ladies went home frightened
out of their wits and several were affected with illness. ,Some,
it was feared, seriously. Clara was naturally more excited over
the singular event than others, remained athome last Friday to
compose her mind, but she was told by her father that on Mon-
day she must be prepared ito return tol school She replied that
she would rather die than to go there again. Of course her father
was interested in thesesitrange, and to him unaccountable fancies
of his daughter. Having some legal business at his office with
an. old lady who was reported to be a spiritual medium, he related
the story to her. She replied that she would, if permitted to
visit the child, and see .if anything could be made out of it,
Monday evening, when Mr. Robertson went home from    his
business office, the spiritual medium accompanied him. Shortly
after she entered the'room where Clara, was, and a table was set
before her. Several neighbors dropped in to witness the expected
developments. All seated themselves around the table, placing
their hands on the surface.. Mr. Robertson, always skeptical and
doubting the truth of the r tory, watched with the eyes of a hawk
to detect fraud or collusion. His doubting mind, with that of
several others, who had during their natural existence ridiculed
ghosts and spirits, was soon awe and wojider struck at the strange
actions that followed. The little girl, to all appearances, swooned,
falling back into her chair apparently lifeless, and certainly in-
sensible.  Her eyes   stood  wide open, fixed on vacanOy.
Her hands began to' move, Sqon they moved faster, and in a
short time their violent action frightened the parent, who caught
hold of his child's arm to prevent doing herself harm,  Those
bresent (some dozen or more) were amazed at the child's behav-
ior and ap peatrance. In due time they became tranquil, as did
the hand of Miss Clara, though not in the latter case until all the
skin had been barke(d fronmthe knuckles of her hands, She never
spoke a word, but when the medium placed a pencil in her hands
and paper on the table beneath it, she began to write with aston-
ishing velocity, At first the characters were-strange, indistinct,
and unreadable.   Gradually .the scratches assumed shape and
form, and finally became readable.  Sentences were read, from
the several sheets the girl wrote upon which corroborated all she
had previously related. Questions were asked by persons present
and replies were instantly written on the paper, the writer never
uttering a word, and all-the time totally insenseible.  The same
as has:been told was all written in words clear and distinct. The
question was asked under what stump the valuabks were buried.
The reply was, five feet under the one upon which the vision had
stood. - The question Was asked, why it was desired that Clara
should become the possessor ofthe property?  The reply was:
'Because by recognizing the vision she had become relieved of a
trouble that had long weighed upon her.. Her spirit was now

14

5


6

free and as other parties were then searching diligently for the
secreted papers, unless they were ressurrected without delay they
would fall into improper hands, and become worthless to all ex-
eept the illegal holders of the place. The question was asked,
"suppose those now in possession refuse to release their hold ?"
The answer was writtenp;I will see that it shall do them no good
if you only. recover the papers.''  Other sentences were written
which, we think it imprudent to publish, but having the paper
upon which the girl wrote in our possession, in the editorial rooms
of the Avalanche, they can be produced as occular proof of the
correctness of that part of the story to whichthey relate,  The
medium wrote that the name of the spirit was Lizzie Davidson
and closed by inditing the sentence,"good night, kiss Clara, for
I love her."  Thereupon the female medium bestowed the kiss as
reqnested. Miss Clara immediately raised up, rubbed her eyes,
said she-had been asleep and- dreaming, and was utterly uncon-
scious of the strange proceedings that had been .enacted or that
she had done things that had so completely dumbfounded, bewil-
dered and astonished the persons present. The result of the af-
fair was that at about 9 o'clock at night a pa ty of, four or five
gentlemen repaired to the college grounds, where they found ev-
ery inmate a firm believer in the story of the vision.  The gen-
tlemen after consultation, detirmined to exctvate the stump. to see
if the promised secret valuables could be utnd.
CHAPTER IfL
The scenes narrated in previous chapter caused hundreds to
visit the grounds and gratify their curiosity as far as practicable,
in peering into the excavation and watching the diggers as they
toiled patiently in search 6f the supposed hidden treasures, which,
as revealed through spiritual agencies at the residence of Mr.
lobertson, on DeSoto Street, Saturday night, consisted of several
thousand dollars in coin, a quantity of jewelry, including valuable
diamonds, and the title papers of the estate. Oonspicuous among
the visitors were groups of fishionably-dressed ladies,wyho seemed
to take an acute interest-in all that was said and done in connec-
tion with the marvelous occurrences, and even more adventurous
than t/he male sex in pressing. forward and endeavoring to un-
tathom the mystery, prompted, no doubt by a kindred spirit to
that which prompts them to be the most active and officious alike
at funerals and weddings. The edloired population, among whom
the story had spread in all sorts of ways, was largely represented
and stood by with blank faces, on which were to be read unmis
takeably the deepest superstition and concern.
An Avalanche reporter interviewed Mr.' Meredeth on Sunday,'
relative to the case of Miss Robertson, and learned from that gen-
tleman that, while he had no doubt that she was-honest in her state-
ments, it was his firm belief that the alleged visitations were sim-

ply mental hallucinations arising from abberration of the mind.
In conclusion, Mr. Meredeth, who is principal of the college, in-
timated that the girl had no doubt gone crazy, and expressed his
regret that his school 'was likely to suffer in consequence-would
be broken up perhaps-so great was the. excitement among the
students and in the neighborhood. -He did not question that
Clara saw strange visions, but said they were certainly in her mind's
eye, and insisted, statementsfrom other sources to the contrary,
that the unearthly visions had been seen by no one else on the
premises. Once, when Clara was' in, the music room  with two
other pupils of the institute, she called their attention to the appa-
rition. which had suddenly appeared before her, and in their
fright they thought they saw it also, and ran away, but after col-
lecting their sens=,s they became doubtful and finally concluded
that they saw nothing but a .creation in their own  fancy.  Of'
Clara's character, general dportment and truthfulness, he spoke
in the highest terms ; there was not a better girl in the school, he
said, and the trouble which had take possession of her within
the past two weekswas as unaccountable as it was to be regretted.
So far as ghosts or hobgoblins are concerned, he looked upon talk
of that kiridas mere bosh. and the same. he asserted, was the pre-
vailing sentiment among the teachers and pupils of the in-
stittute over which he presided. and which of late had, in connec-
tion with the affair under consideration, become so unpleasantly
notorious. le was informed on taking possession of the place
that it had the reputation of being haunted, atid duri ig the first
several months of'his residence had heard strange noises of nights,
which caused much alarm among his family, and were finally
traced to an object in the shape of a~ raccoon, which one night
walked slowly around the dining room and disappearing through
the door in the darkness. was not seen again for sonme time, when
it was chased into the kitchen, and there enned while he (M r. M,)
went around to a side eutrance with a view of capturing the in-
truder. On entering the kitchen by the side entrance spoken of,
Mr. M. found that'the animal had disappeared under the hearth
and made its escape. it was not seen again until one night the
faniily were sitting up with the corpse of an infant son of M. Mere-
deth, when it suddenly appeared in the room, a reception room,
and after looking at the corpse of the child a moment, as suddenly
disappeared through an open doorway. It was never seen again,
and since that night the:tinware and crockery of the establish-
ment have rattled -and ,lattered only when in use.
Same reporter interviewed Mr Robertson, the father of Clara,
'at his residence on DeSoto;street-, between Vance and Elliot streets,
and was pleasantly received by that gentleman. Mr. R. is an hon-
est looking gentleman of forty years or thereabouts, is possessed of
a good share of intelligence, is well known as a practicing lawyer,
and, as far we have been able to learn, bears an irreproachable char-
acter.. On being asked for his theory of the alleged sugu ar occut-

r
d

1
Z

ry
l


8.

rencessat Brinkley Collage, Mr. Robertson said he 'had no theory
whatever ; that there was no doubt of the truthflulness.of his child;
and that, skeptic as he had always been as to things supernatural,
and disinclned to believe Clara's statement at forest, he had finally;
come to the conclusion that there was some mystery connected with'
the affair, which, from the alleged repeated visitations, and the cor-
roborative evidence elicit=;d during the seances at his residence the
night before, together with what followed at the college grounds,
as stated in thi Avalanche of Sunday, he felt it to be his duty to
investigate. - The' following conversation ensued :
Reporter.--Mr. Robertson, where is Clara ? Mr. R.-She has
gone to Sunday school..
Reporter.-Is she in good health?  Mr. R -Yes sir; in excel-
lent health for one of her delicate organization. She is 'of a rather
a nervous temperament, and is somewhat acute in her .sensibilities
but her health nas.always been good.                     .
Reporter. Is she subject to religious excitement or sensation-
alism ? Mr. R.No sir. She joined the church some months ago,
but has never displayed more than ordinary interest in religious
matters. -
Rep -Does she believe in Spiritnalis n, or has she ever been pres-
ent at, or in any way conn 'cted with spiritual manifestations?
Mr, R.-No, sir ; she does 'not, and never had anythingto do with
spiritual manifestations until last night.
Reporter -Was Clara ever frightened by ghost stories, or is she
in the habit of reading them ? M-. R.--N), :r. .
'Reporter.-You hlieve all she has state conaerning these al-
leg~d visitations? Mr. R.-I have implicit confidence in her truth-
In iness.
Reporter.-Is there  any litigation concerning the Brinkley
College property ? Mr. R.-No, sir ; none that I have ever heard
of.
Reporter.-Has Clara ever heard stories of concealed treasure,
or that there is any dispute as to the ownership of the property?
Mr. R.-Never except what was- revealed to her by the apparition.
Reporter.-Do you or any of your family-believe in spiritual-
ism ? Mr. R.-No, sir. On the contrary, we have always been
skeptics on that subject.               . .--
Reporter.-Have you any legal or other 'relations with Mr.
Brinkley, or any one laying claim to the Brinkley College property ?
Mr. R.-No, sir.
Reporter.-Do you consider your daughter sane ? Mr. R -
Perfectly so; she has never exhibited the slightest symptoms of in-
sanity, and seems to be affected only on the subject of these visi-
tations. In all respects she is as mentally sound as any child of her
age.
Reporter.-Is she frightened about this thing? Mr. R.-Only
when she sees the apparition, which she says is most unsightly,
Reporter.-Han she ever seen appar tions before this one?  Mr.
R.-N ever, sir.

9
Reporter.-Is she inclined to return to the school ?  Mr. R.-
No, sir; she declares she would rather die.
Rleporter.-Do you intend to compel her to return ? Mr. R.-
No, sir. At first I'made her go, bat I have come to the conclu-
sion to let her return of her own free will, or in ferreting out the
mystery.
Reporter.-Well sir,what do you think of those alleged jvisita-
tations ? Mr.R.-I don't know what to think; 'I am  bewildered
and mystified.
Hereupon the reporter of the Avalanche withdrew, with an in-
vitation to fall again, and the assurance of Mr. R. that he would
give him all the information in his possession from time to time
concerning the singular occurrences under consideration.
Under the pale ghostly light of the moon Sunday night, the
work of digging for the secret was resumed and carried on ji
the presence of a motley and constantly changing group, some
jeering and others encourageing the work.  Tom.Burns, clerk
-in the office of R. W. Li htburne on Front street, sat on the
,dge of the excavation directinfi'proceedings. Nothing was de-
veloped beyond the existence of some masonry work in the shape
of an arch, which extended under the stump, and which was partly
demolished by the spades and picks of the workmen, and during
the small hours was abandoned. It was resumed yesterday,
when the stump was finally removed, displaying-more brick work,
but not the hidden treasure.
During Sunday Clara remained undisturbed by ghostly visi-
visitants, and, although extenseively interviewed, managed to at-
tend Sunday school in the morning and-church in the evening,
attended to the latter place by Mr. Franklin, a neighbor.  Of
course she was -the observed of all observers, and expressed some
annoyance thereat. She passed 'a quiet night and was quite
cheerful next day, though thinking frequently of the occurrences
of the past few days. While in the back yard of her residence,
No. 261 DeSoto street, however, in company with a young friend,
about 9 o'clock, she was'startled by the sudden appearance of
the spectre of Brinkley College, and, screaming, directed to it
the attention of her companion, who ran away in affright, though
she saw nothing. The spectre, like the ghost of Hamlet, chided
Clara for her tardiness in unearthing the secret, and answered
that it could not be found, when it rejoined that Clara must go
and seek it herself, or the others would get it. The spectre then
disappeared, and Clara ran in trepidation into the house, w here
narrated her adventure, It was resolved by the inmates to pro-
eed at once to the excavation, which they did, Clara going with
Miss Franklsn, a neighbor.  The diggers were still at. work.
Clara was urged to call uponl the spirit again, which, after much
hesitation, she did. it appeared to her eyes alone, and indicated
with its finger more exactly the direction in which' the excava-
tion should be made, saying at the same time that Clara herself

L

A


110

must dig. .In great affright, Clar~a finally stepped tnto the exca-
vation and proceeded with herslittle 'hands to ply the spade. She
turned one -spade full of dirt, stepped forward aaif to pick some-
thing up and fell insensible. :Carried into the house she was
restored, when she declared shehad sepn the jar, and was about
to pick it up when she fell. Excitement ran higher than pver.
Consequent upop this occurrence, another seance was held by
Mrs. Nourse, tpe; medium, at Ar. Robertson's house, when th."
spectre % as invoked to communicate through Clara. -A spirit
calling herself Gora angversed, saying she was a cousin of Lizzie
Davie,.who --as not then. present. But at last the spirit of Lizzie
Davie was raised, and .upo being questioned, said that Clara
must dig for the treasure. The spirit was told that. Clara was in
too nervousand;excited a condition,,and asked if M.' R., could
not seek a  obtrin ii, to which it answered, after some hesita-
tion, in the affirmative, saying, lxon ever, that in that event, the
jar 8s1ould not be opened for sixty days. It also indicated the ex-
act spot n the excavation, and spid the jar would be found under
the arch. Mr. Robertson, accompanied' by the ,n ediun and two
diggers, and following the direction of the spirit, to,mal, e a long
stiQry short, after digging an :hour or more into the brick work,
found a glass jar, which h}e, quietly passed up to the medium,
whereupon they proceeded to Mr. B's. residence followed by an
excited crowd, The jar was at pnce delivered to Clara, who, re-
garding its possession as an end to her unearthly visitations,
received it with transports ofi delight, and up to a late hour was
in the happiest mode imaginable.
The jar bore evidence of lung concealment, being covered
with mould. -True to their instrutions from the spirit, it was
not opened, but through its sides could be seen several bags and
packages, together with what appeared to be a large yellow en-
velope.
CHAPTER III.
SPECTRE OP BaINKLEY COLLEGE.
How about that ghost? was the question which the man about
town encountered. now at every turn ; and that jar, did you see it?
What was it like?. Was it a family jar? Was there any whisky
init ? All day long, and all through the night "the ghost" "was
talked of wherever one chanced to go, and "ghost" with a spoon in
it was the favorite beverage in every bar room. steamboats went
out of port' with spectral shadows about -ahem, and men as they
walked through the streets last night, dodged at every alley or open
doorway, while children cried in terror if left for a moment alone.
Groups discussed the marvelous occurrences at almost every corner

11
of the street, and various Nhreetbe theories suigested, and wonder-
fll the experiences related:. On theory concerning the alleged find-
ing of"the glass jar, was that Mi'. Robertson was simply playing a
cute little game on his daughter Clara, with the hope that the pre-
tended finding of sdmethiti of the kind indicated would have the
effet of restoring her to hirfenses, aridin this connection the mat-
terf f4si ty days " was ehi didt ith the idea that'that Was simply
to give the child time to recover from the depression and nervous-
nesshnperindiced by the bot'ly visRationi 'of the' past two weeks.
But against this'it was t rbd thAt it Nasd  nairnecessary proceeding
on the part' of Mr. R. to '6iin the dead' of night, in company with
the wied woman; and twd dih~4rs as dark'as Erebus, to dig for the
secretin the presence of lar's crowd:6f'"people, when a glass jar,
brought sealed from s,otne corner '\oery would have answered the
purpose as well, so far  s 'anyknowledge Clara could possibly have
is concerned. Mr. Rohertson, howev r,1 regardless of all theories
an(d fancies. avows mdst sacredly that the jar was found by him in
the excavation, and itmay have been there since the' deluge, for all
he knows to theicontrary.' He bad but one 6plnion on the subject,
he said, and.that hodid not'voiunteer to 'express. The possibility
of some "jolly fellows " h avingplaced the jarinthe excavation for
hint to find, he would not entertain for a imorent. He found it, he
said,, under the instructions received at-the seance on Mnday night,
and is satisfied. Besides, if he would deceive his child, where is
the necessity of also deeiving the-publie? The jar found by Mr.
Robertson, was about twelve inches in hight by ten in diameter, and
of thin glass, such as is commonly used by druggists and conec'
tioners. . The top is sealed closely, and the weight of the whole is
about six pounds. It was deposited in a place of safety known only
to Mr. Robertson and his daughter. ~"Its possession. apparently
relieved the child, of all supernatural influences, and she is now as
happy as a clam in high water'; in the belief that her troubles are
ended. The age and evident innocence of the child disarm every-
body of suspicion that she 'is the 'tool of designing persons, -and
nearly everybody inclines to the belief that' she has had visions' of
the mind's eye if not in reality. Her deep earnestne-s, truthful-
ness and piety are spoken of by all to whom she is known, and
With none does she stand in higher esteem than the inmates and hab-
itues of Brinkley College.
The spectre, as described by Clara, was unsightly and terrible
It was in the form of a child of eight or nine years of age, dressed
in faded pink, covered with a slimy greenish mold, which seemed
to speak of the tenements of the dead. It wore also rusty shoes
with mildewed stockings.- The head, neck, arms and such portions
of -the form as were exposed to Clara's view, seemed to be of trans-
parent skin encasing bones and sinews entirely fleshless. In speech
it was always mild and gentle, with at times a touch of earnest per-
suasion. It gave the name of Lizzie Davie, in writing, on two
occasions. It is singular, to say the least, that a child of that name

L


12

was once an inmate of the building, and died there in 1861. So we
are informed by old citizens, one of whom, a prominent cotton
operator, claims to have recollection of much talk some years ago
concerning the title to the estate.
It is impossible to:convey more than a faint idea of the sensa-
tiop created by this singular affair since the first publication, which,
brog ht forth the following letter to the Avaldnche, dated April
EDITOR AVALA;N   :-W your issue of Sunday, the 5th inst., I
noticed an unwvarrented use of ny-name in connection with the Brink -
ey Female College ghost story., I write this to correct the mis-
ake made in the statement:that I have at any time seen even the
shadow of a ghost, or heard any unaccountable sound about our
usually quiet college. Miss 1obertson at one time came into the
music room, apparently very nuch excited, but having never
given credit to the story of tho ghost, I neither went back with her
to her practice room or sent any one else; and-the only wish tnat
I have heard expressed by the pupils of the Brinkley College, is
that the citizens of Memphis would stay at home and allow us to go
on quietly with our owe affairs and not undermine us.
We do not believe in ghosts, and as the statemrrent limited our
number of pupils to fifty,,I think I can safely say that forty nine
out of the fifty are disbelievers,
JACKIE BOONE.
Mr. Meredith's letter which, like Miss Boone'si was written
t before the finding of the glass jar,,is as follows:
BaNKLEY COLLEGE, March 5, 1871.
DEAR AVALANCHE ;---Please let me speak for myself about
" ghosts."  I have lived in this college two and a half years, and
have seen noghosts worse than a " lien " creditor from time to time
--nor is there an "inmate !" of this house who has seen or beard
anything strange-except what-we have learned from persons out-
side of our lot, and from your " visionary'" reporters. Miss Rob-.
ertson, who lives in the city, did see "sights " here, and she can see
them anywhere ; for she takes her ghosts with her, and I leave
medical men to dispose of her ense scientifically. A "spirit " in
the city ordered a stump to be dug up in our garden, which vas
badly " done up " this morning by " enterprising " men.. I do not
believe in ghosts, mediums or anything -the devil can get up-
though getting up stumps is rather uncommon for him. But, gen-
tlemen, this rumor is well calculated to injure a college, which hy
many enemies, simply because it has low prices-because it believes
the Bible should be the first and, last text book in every ,pupil's
hand; and hence we hope that every newspaper in the city, to which
we are indebted, will follow their noble impulses, and send our bills
receiptedd, to indemnify us for this late "unpleasantness."
Your obedient servant.
J D. MEREDITH.

CHAPTER IV.
The above correspondence elicited the following from Mr J. R.
Robertson:
To TUBEnTos or OTE Arrt* :-Aliow me, through the col-
umns of your excellent paper, to reply to tle knowing correspon-
dent who occupies so much of your valuable space in this morning's
paper, over no signaturO, but indorsed by you as a gentleman of
integrity, etc., and state in the outset that- almost every word, at
least every proposition, in said communication, so far as the same
relates to my little daughter, Clara, who, I regret, is unfortunately
prominently connected with the,;" Brinkley College -Ghost " story, it
utterly false and unfounded in trath. I, hpwever, do not say that
your correspondens is the origi ator of those falsehoods, or that he
has wantonly or maliciously, perpetrated them, and before I shall
have done with this articleoI willigiye him a full and fair opportu-
nity to make good the many statertbents made by him.
He starts'out by saying: "II believe there is an abnormal con-
dition of the system at the bottom of it.", In reply to this I would
:Aimply ask Mr. Anonymous, who are you? what are you? (ron
whence came you and whither are you tending ? Are you a disci
ple of Erriascopilus, and hve you gone down into the depths. of
physical science so as to enable you to fotmin, mature and deliver an
opinion as to the physical condition of a patient whom you have
never seen, much less examined? or have you read Dr. Gunn's
work or Thompson's treatiseof Lobelia and Wake Robbin? Who
are yon ? Answer, that the public may know whether or not the
voluntary opinion you so freely offer is worty of reliance.
You also say that this little girl attended Dr. Earle's revival and
got religion, etc. This is not so. Long before Dr. Earle came
here she was a member of the M. E. Church,'at Asbury Chapel, as
is known to that whole congregation, and especially to the excellent
pastor of that church, Rev. L. D. Mullins. and I refer to himuand
to every member. of the church , that.she has at no time since her
connection with it manifested any unusual interest on the subject ;
.simply attendidg the regular meetings of the church in the still,
calm and dignified way characteristic of her deportment in all the
varied walks of life.
You say for one whole month slhe had been seeing ghosts and
refusing to sleep alone, etc.
How in the name of allithat is sacred did you get into the pri-
vate affairs of my family? Have 3 ou secreted yourself in some
private corner and watched, like the ghost of Hamlet, the movements
of my children when they are retiring to their beds'of straw; or have
you, like the Witch of Endpr, sprung up in the midst of the family
circle and taken notes of what you say is true? Surely, this is- news
to us. . We now learn for the first time that Clara had ever seen or
heard anything like a ghost until some three weeks since, which was
the commencement of the wonderful development at Brinkley
College.

4


14
Yon say that she saw the ghbst  6f Peabody, who told her that
be, with his great heart of hearts, was going to endow Brinkley
College with $25,000, visions ofilyde Park and the little florid man,
etc., all of which is, no doubt. the fruitful imaginations of 'the won-
derful productiv'e bt in of ,the Lobelia Doctor. It is utt rly false.
No such'thing has 'ev  occurred; as Clara herself, who never speaks
at random,'will fully' attest'; 'and as tothe 'medical- prescription of
Spanish flies, that  also f61se, no physician. having been calledd to
see Clara or prescribe for her sirce September, 1867, at which tinme
she had'chills and was treated by Dr. W. B. Jones, now of Caniden,
Arkansas., Asato'the afflictiot of r.y little son, whose misfortunes
are t'o be attested by the'teelierof' the 'Linden street school, I have
only to say that-sixee hetiWs six ntouths,-old owing to a hurt receivedin
the hands of 't nurse, of some other;cause, which the very best phy-
sicians have as yet'failed to disc&amp;very be is subjected to spasms at
irregular intervals, 'frorn the effects of'which his mind is to some
extent impaired.  But accdents happedi iu the best regulated fami-
lies, and 'iny anonymous friend is unfortunately the husband'of a wife
tht gets sick from the effects-of hearing ghost stories, 'send for the
dodtor and drink Dover's powders. He also  'has two promising
daughters who look through the damask-clad windows of his stately
mansion in the:'direction of Brinkley college, dream of little'spec-
tres in pinkhabiliinents 'and'beb6ne mournfully inspired with poetic
effusions,and perhaps it is these 'strange hallucinations that have so
assiduously bren' attempted to be kept scored, for I am sure we have
no such secrets in 'our family. 'And''now to the queries which I pro-
pose to abSwer categorically asinear as I am' able
Q. Was not. that peach preserve jar bought at Jack's china
store at 9 o'clock Monday morning.
A. I-I do not know.
Q. Did not the colored woman who was sent'for, the jar 'get -an
old one dollar bill with a rent in it topay fur the jar.
A. I do not know ; but will state that I have no colored woman
at my place or under my control, nor havc I had since last fall.
Q. Was it not fixed up at twelve o'clock onMonday, in a 'er-
tain back parlor, and was not the sealing-wax purchased at Young's
bankrupt sale.
A. We have no back parlor, and neither myself nor any person
for me has bought anything at Young's sale, except some paper and
envelopes presented to me by a friend.
Q. 'Does not the jar as it now is weigh about two pounds avor-
dupois.
A. I have not weighed it.
Q. Is there not a package of No. Z shot in it.
A. I cannot tell, not having seen the contents except through
the jar's coverings.
Q. Are not the papers composed of the following documents :
five, blank forms for attachments, three sheets legal cap, upon which
is written an old, ease in the Chancery Court, etc.

15,

A. No such things are visible .througla the jar. The, papers
appear to be old printed niatter, and a yellow envelope well nigh
decayed,
Q. Did not Mrs. course carry t liat jar down to the hole under
her, cloak.
A. She did not.. She had no cloak,; simply a light shawl over
her head and shoulders,. I was with her from the time she started
until the jar was found, and f she had had the jar, I could and would
have seen it.
Q. Were not the colored excavators instructed to say that, they
saw the jar while they were digging. - lhat it, moved away from them
and then they jumped out of the hole in apparent affright.
A. No.; after the jar was fond one of the negroes said that
while he was digging on Sunday niglt he saw the same jar, but
failed to get it.
Q. Did not the program me, whatever was the object of it,
include the moving the crowd -way from the hole, while the previ-
ously appointed finder should go in and get it.
A. -No; tnor was there any program, of which I have any
. knowledge, nor did I expect to sef any person there. When Mrs.
Nourse saw the crowd, consisting of some ,forty or fifty persons,
crowding close around the' diggers. she was 'frightened, and refused
to goto the place until the c-Rowd was requested to get back, which
was done, and all except thre three diggers withdrew a few steps
from the place,
Q. As soon as the ceremoiies were gone through with accord-
ing to ghostly rite, was not the little visionary sent from home.
A. I am not familiar with the ceremonies of which you ask, if
there he such. I did send Clara away next day to avoid as much of
the excitaent as possible, fearing she might see the pink spectre
again and become poetically Juchined.
Q. Why not before,
A. I saw no necessity for it.
If I am the party alluded to as being behind the scenes, and
whether I am or not, I assume the responsibility to reply, and place
myself prominently at the helm, under my own proper signature,
and defend my child and all others attacked from the scurrillous and
unprovoked abuses contained in said letter ; and inform your corres-
pondent that from the incipiency of this mysterious proceeding I
have stood in the front rank and battled for the quietude of the pub-
lic mind as best I could. But public sentiment was too strong for
me. Excitment seized the reins and drove off the chariot.
And now in conclusion, Mfr..Editor, I propose to ask your cor-
resprad,ent a few questions;: pnd you having :vouched for him as a
gentleman, surely he will not refuse to answer as fully and faithfully
as I have done :
1. Are you a physician ? If so, what is the meaning . of abnor-
mal, when applied to the human system, and.what are its effects ?
2. Have you ever exar :ngud my daughter Clara to see if she was
thus affected?  If so, when, where and at whose request?


16

3. Were you present at Dr. Earle's revival when she got relig-
ion ? If so, where was it ?
4. Has she been strongly affected for two whole months prior
to the present excitment ?  If so, how do you know ?   Give
names, etc.
5.; Did she ever see, or report to have, seen the ghost of Pea-
body ? If so, where, and who is your authority ?
6. Did any physician"recommend a blister of Spanish flies to be
put on the back of her neck ? If 'so, what physician ? 'Was you
present, or how do you know? "
7. Have you ever seen her in your life ?  If so,. when and
where.?
8. Are you not some quack employed to counteract the excite-
ment now prevailing in the city ?
Answer the foregoing questions satisfactorily, or write no more.
Respectfully,    J. R. ROBERTSON.
MEMPHIS, March 8,-1871."
EDIToR AVALANCHE:-I had hoped, and most ardently desired,
that nothing should occur connected with .the Brinkley college
ghost story, now so fully before the public, that would render it,
necessary for me even t' explain, my name being closely con nected
with the affair trom the beginning, most of which has been faith-
fully detailed in the Avalande. But-I see a letter in this morning's
Avalanche from Mr. Meredith, in which he evidently refers to me in
the following language : "A spirit in the city ordered a stump to be
dug up in our garden, which was badly done up this morning by
enterprising men." I wish to state in reference to the digging up
of the stump, that after the excited operations of Saturday night
-in which a few gentlemen participated, and several excited ladies
were looking on-had proved unavuiling; after the excitement of
Sunday, consequent upon the narration in Sunda'y morning's 'Ava-
lanche of.the proceedings of the previous. eight had caused thous-
ands of the citizens to visit the spot, where, doubtless, many of
them expected to see the ghost, loaded down with treasures of gold
and pitchers of silver. After I had been interviewed, examined,
catechised, interrogated and'cross-questioned by at least one thous-
and men-including newspaper reporters, editors, doctors, lawyers,
preachers, merchants, tradesmen, mechanics, laborers, to say noth.-
ing of two thousand women, children, and negroes of all shades, from
the saffron to the darkest"°ebon color, and had endeavored to
answer civilly at least ten thousand questions--I did think, it was
time to dig up the balance of the old stump, and so reported to Mr.
Meredith: I told him I thought public sentiment demanded it, and
while I had no faith in the operation, liat the question would not
be satisfactorily settled until it was done, to which he replied that
he was of the same opinion, and had intended to go and see 'me in
reference'to it, and with thisiutual agreement and understanding
between us in'the presence of Mrs. Meredith ands others, I did send
some negroes to complete the work, with instructions to report to

1.7

me at my' house if they; made any discoveries; but they have not
yet reported. I make this statement to place myself in a proper
light b fore the public, and to show that I was acting in concert
with Mr. M., trying more to satisfy the public mind and if possible
pour oil on the troubled waters rather than gratify a curiosity I
really did not have.
As to his insinuation in the same letter that my little daughter
was influenced by the devil, leave the public to judge as between
her and Mr. Meredith.                J. R. ROBERTSON.
The following is an anonymous letter published in the Appeal
March, 9th, 1871.
EDITOR APPEAL :--I wish to ask your pardon for intruding this
long letter on your valuable space.. I am  the more particularly
induced to do this because:it happens to be upon a subject that you
have very properly and-with becoming dignity and decency passed
silently ov r during the female excitement of the last four or five
(lays. This "communication is about that "ghost."  I bought a
phamphlet"at Mansford's this evening, which gives an account of.
that revelation (?) from begining to end, if the end is yet, . I read
it through carefully and Must cotnfess that the excitement in the
female community had some excuse after pondering on that sort of
a " get up." I was out of town, thank Providence, during those ex-
citing days. but as I was passing Grenada, Miss., coming home, 1
met a friend, and he aske4 me in astonishment : "Why, you are
not going to town, are you? ,The.people are all crazy there,- they
have gone wild about a ghost'; my wife his the doctor attending
her ever since Sunday evening, and she has swallowed about a quart
of.Dover's powders.". I siniled at this, but when I reached the city
I found my own wife sick,. and my two eldest girls writing poetry
about pink ghosts and blotted lightning. I fonnd. It necessary to
look into this business a little, and with all proper deference to every
body's feelings, I must say .the affair is a shame and a disgrace to
those who originated this big bugbear. From the best information
L ran get, and I am in a position to learn something of the inside
history of this event, I believe there is an abnormal condition of the
nervous system at the bottom of it. When Dr. Earle held forth at
the Greenlaw seine time agoj this little girl got religion and since
that time as been .irmagiatively affected to a painfully laughable
extent. Two whole Month8, before anything,publicly was known
about this thing, that, gidl had been:seeing daily and nightly visions
of all sorts at horn:a a vll as' in school. She would not sleep alone
in thenight. At oebestime she saw the ghost of Mr. ,Peabody, the
philanth'opist, who told he that he tended to endow the Brinkly
College with a yearlyreVenue of twenty-flve thousand dollars; and
that.he had made out the papers, but his physiciancgave him a dose
of hydrate of chloral,'took tiho ;ppers out of his hand and--,-and has
themhet. The physics ns Iae.is White, and hoe i rs at-89QHyde
Park, London. Re is' a-little Ilorid man.ith higi pek bones, a
small black.eye and grey bristly hair, and has a family of ten ellil-


19

dren. This was tle first serious vision that I have heard of as
coming to the astonishingly piercing ken of this'child. Aftet that
she lhad/ various :tabulated visions of a religious character, and1
finiall~ycame to 'the pink infant with its marvelous revelations about
docdnents. Tose revelations'came first, fully thirty days ago: ,I
was in town at the time myself and heard about it. Plenty of peo-
ple'ieard of it, but every one of my acquaintances, without any ex-
crptibn ,looked upon this as a, peculiar aberrition of mind.  \.
Spanish  flphblister was prescribed for the back of the child's neck.
combined wieh an internal mercurial treatment. But thiswas con-
sidered too severe and would not be adopted, then, as - a sort of
compromise, the Doctor recommended perfect quiet, with a diet of
mush and mi'k.; but the young lady, continued to.go to school and to
see visions. Now, to s'hoN you that this thing is purely a sort of
physical weakness, it is ouly necessary to say that the teacher of
the girl's brother in the Linden street school will attest the truth
of the fact that he is' subject to a sort of nervons derangement'un-
like anything'that ever came under their observation. The mani-.
festations of this derangement are not unfretent, and often take
the form-,of:"-fits," which was the name his' school-fellows gave his
little physical idiosyncracies, though the doctors say they were
nothing of the sort. Those pink visions concerning the stump, and
the " documents." were' old at the time the midnight excavations
commenced. I told you:,ahotit that strange child in the office of the
Appeal in the-first part; of the week, the night before I went to Mis-
sissippi. I also:'ruentionod to you how . these things, which we all',
consider infirmities, were sought to be kept private until the young
lady should "get over"I her complaint. What it was that induced
the operations of  turday night, I cannot say. Why theyawere
not cmmenced tetn ds before is unaccountable to me, unless this
Mrs. Nourse, the old woman from St Louis, commenced operations
on older heads than the child's, or whether it was a masterly stroke'
to put an end to the whole series of visions in the mind of the child;
but then as long as the ' jar happened to be in the female public
mind, 1 may be pardoned for denlanding answers to the following
queties:e
Was not that peach'preserve jar bought at2Jack's china store at
nine' o'clock on Monday morning-? Didenot the colored woman -ho
was -sent'for that jtr ;get an old one dollar bill 'sith a rent in it, to.
pay for 'her purchase? _aas she not toldwhea he came home,
that sh'e paid fiveeertts too niuch foritr? ' 'Wascit not "fixeb up" at
the hour of twelve :on Monday, in a certain bank parlor ? and was
rot the ceiling-wax purchased at Yoira''s bankrupt sale ? Does not
that jaras it=iC ow, weigh about two pounds avoirdupois? Is there
n'ot isnall packdge'of No. 2 shot injit,? -Are not the papers con-
posed of the following documents: Fiveblank forms of attachment;
three sheets of legal cap, upon which is written an old case in the
Chancery Court; a '"wiSh bone," done up in tissue' paper, over-
lapped with note paper, an old compbsition.,of the -child's, covering

four pages of letter paper. A little box.for holding a gold ring,
covered in white tea paper, and..a sheet'of musie" Lay mo-inmy,
little bed," folded four times?  Did not-Mrs. Nourse carry-that jar
down to-the hole under her cloak ? Were not the colored excavators
instructed to say that they saw the, jar whil4 they were digging 'for
it, and that it moved away from them, and then=they jumped out of
the hole in apparent :affright?  Did not they'programme, whatever:
was tho object of it, include the moving of thescrowd away from the
hole, while the previously appointed finder should go-in and get it?
What was all 4th s done for? As soon as the cerinoniesihad been
properly gone through, according to ghostly rite, was  not;the l'tle
viuonary sert from home? 'Why not before?    I just make bold
enough, to ask these questions because the matter touched upon have
become subject's of public discussion; without a word of protest' or
condemnation from the parties behind the scenes. A number of our
weak-minnded population' have' been imposedupon, and it is the chiv-
alrous, duty of the strong to protect the weak. whether theassault
he aimed at their minds, theit affections or their persons, in their.be-
half I' speak.i A pubic ghost of indignation has been invoked,
which swill not down uh deiP the influence - of 'bottled .or- any other
sort Of spirits.
Perhaps the 'diligent searchers into the "angel world" could tell
what it was that moved the -child's chair in Townsend's house-the:
other nitht. when sbe sat with her little feet upon the cross-bar and
her hands meekly folded on her breast, and the. chairs with its gentle
burden, stepped from the wall over to the able in 'the middle of the
icoin, was the pink ghost under that chair, or did the "-meejumn"
from St. Louis rmanipilate the transaction ?. What was done by the
"'meejum "at Robertnou's last night ? I received a verbal "invite"
to attend that seace-" for the purpose of seeing with your own eyes
what Che can do "- --to receive ocular aid aurieulr and nasal demon
stration, I suppose, that she can do a thing or two in the way of
ailingg up "sperite" from the vasty deep. Was this delving at the
stump, by the pale, silvery light of the moon, a sort-of elever adver-
tising dodge for the regular 'operations of the " meejiu," which are'
now regularly to follow?  The arrangements fior thirteen, meetings;
-to stake place between now and, the appointed time'of the jar partus
rition have been perfected; and the persons to the number of four
lindred who are to be invited are noted down. Some :of those 'thus
fixed upon would be astonished to know that they are the objects of
so much attention and Oonsideration.  They are, not to be-notiiied
until it is thought that the proper impression is inade,
I have merely glanced, at a little part of the insideltmaehitiety of
this thing. I may write{you more of the :"lying wonders "inn day
or two.I'in the, meantime permit me to suggest to'- yourAternale,
readers to  possess their souls in peace, and, whenthey are engad4
i the'woianlyr occupation of cooking, not to'put-too m'chklar4t
the biscuit, for' it=has an astonishingly bad effect on the diabliea'
apparatus, and 'through that upon the brain, and throughthe'brain'
upon the ghost cognizing powers.

18


22
finding some objections thereto, determined to give them the entire
proceeds, and addressed to the Avalanchc the following note:
EniroRs AvALANCHE-Will you be kind enough to announce in
your paper -that Mr. Robertson, father of Miss, Clara, has gener-
ously concluded to devote the whole of the proceeds of admission-
at the opening of the Brinkley College Ghost Jar, on Thursday
night next, at the (reenlaw Opera iouse, to the Churdh Orphan's
home, and that the donation is accented on behalf of the institution.
. Mrs. W. S. PICKETT. President.
Mrs. A. K. TAYLOR, Vice-Presidentr.
ChEAPTER v;
Clara Robertson, being the ceihtral figure in the story of the
" Ghost of Brinkley College,' it' was thought worth while, in
order to satisfy the inquiries of many yho. wish to know  the
character of the person who has seen 1f"traveler from the un-
discovered country,"'I to apply the tcstof what Maybehcalled a
cross examination, and to elicit from the girls own lps
saw, and her own belief and sources of information.  rJ.his ha-
been done, and the examination is published in full below.
An  observer's frst impression after conversing with  her
awhile, is that she is intelligent and bright beyond her years,
and at the same time full of'simplicity, candor and truthfulness.
The reporter looked closely for wildness of expression about the
eyes and apparent'wandering of the mind, and tried to stagger
her with questions, in every possible way during the narrative,
but saw and elicited nothing to cast the shadow of a doubt upon
her belief sof what she stated.. The interview was follows:
Reporter.-Have you any objections to answering some ques-
tions concerning your experience at Brinkley College?  Clara.
-None at all, sir.
Rep.-Have you read the accounts in the AVALANCHE con-
cerning the apparitions which you claim to have'seen there, and
were they corret? Clara.-Yes, sir, I have read them. There are
some mistakes, and the whole has not been told.
Rep.-What is your age? Clara.-I am thirteen years old.
Rep-wbere were you born? Clara:-In Bolivar Tennessee.
Rep.'--How long -hve you resided in this - neighborhood?
(lara.-Between two and three years.
.Rep.-Have you always been in good health?  Clara.-Yes,
sir, most always. -'I've not been sick in three years.'
Rep-How long h Ave you attended Brinkley College-? Clara.
-Since the first of last September.
-Rep.-Where did you attend school prevoiusly?  Clara.-I
went to the public school on Linden street. Miss Gussic To-
veil was my teacher.

23
Rep -Have you been treated kindly at Brinkley College? Clara
-very ; and-I liked all the teachers and scholars.
Rep ---Did any one in tlhe college ever frighten you in any
Way or play tricks on you ? Clara.-Noy sir; never.
Rep. Did you ever hear anything about the -histor  of the
place, or that it was haunted, from any one? Clara-.--o, sir.
Rep.-Did you ever hear of a family named Davie living
here? 'Clara.-No, sir.
Rep-Have.you ever heard of Mr. Brinkley ? Clara.-Never
till Lizzie (the spectre) told me of him. I only knew the school
was called Brinkley College, bat I did'nt know why it was so
called.
Rep.-Had you ever heard of Lizzie Davie ?  Clara.-Never,
sir.
Rep.,"--Iid you ever hear of treasure being concealed about
the college grounds, or other strange things -about the place ?
Clara. -No, sir.
Rep.-Were your schoolmates in the habit of talking about
ghosts and haunted houses ? Clara. No. sir ; and I have, never
read a ghost story or A novel of any kint,
.Rep.-What do you read? Clara.-Beside my school books,
nothing but Sunday school books, and the Bible.
Rep.-Do you believe in the Bible?  Clara.-Yes, sir; I was
converted at a revival in Asbury chapel last summer, and have
since been a member of the Methodist church.
Rep.-Do you know Mrs. Nourse? (larva-Yes, sir.
Rep.-How long have you known her ? Clara.-I never -saw
her until a week ago last Mionday or- Tuesday, when I met her
in Pa's office.
Rep.-Had you seen the apparition at that time, and where?
Clara.-I had seen it three times, and no where but at the col-
lege.
Rep-1Did you have any conversation with Mrs. Nourse?
Clara.-Very little. She and Pa were talking about what I had
seen, and she alvised me to speak to the spectre if I saw it again,
saying it would not hurt me.
Rep.-Are you conscious ofMrs. Nourse having any influence
over you ? Clara.-No; sir; none at all.
Rep.-Do you know any thing about mesmorism ?   Clara.-
I have heard of it, but have never been mesmorized at all, and I
never felt differently in Mrs Nourse's presence from what I
have felt in any other place.
Rep.-Do you like Mrs. Nourse?  Clara.-Very much from
:what I have seen of her. She seems to be a real nice lady.
Rep.-Has she ever talked to you about spirits or apparitions?
Clara,-Never ; except to tell me to speak to Lizzie should she
appear to me again.
Rep - Whgn did fou first see this appartition, and under what
circumstancese ? Clara.--Three weeks ago last Tuesday. I was


24.
practicing at the piano in the upper hail of the college. It has
a door opening out over the porch, hut it was closed with a box
against it to keep it shut. Katy Wright and Bessie Pointer were
in the room on the west side of the hall.  While practicing, I
saw what appeared to be a little girl coming softly up stairs.
When it reached the top it stopped with one foot ion the upper
step. I looked towards it and asked, what it wanted, when it
shook its head, and then in a moment came towards Me, not
walking but gliding. Ai it approached I saw it was a skeleton,
and screaming I ran into the room where were Katy Wright and
Bessie Pointer, the one reading and the other looking out the
window. 'They screamed too, and we all rushed to the bed and
got on to it, myself on the outside. The figure followed, pulled
my dress vi lently and then fingered with my hair, which was
done up in a net. We screamed all the time. The spectre, after
pulling at me for several moments, went hack to the door, stood
there a moment and then crossed the hall to Miss Dora Hill's
room, where it knocked and then tried the door. when I heard it
say, as if in disappointment:  Oh, Lord ." in a pitiful, weak,
hollow voice. It then came back to our door and beckoned to mnc
with its first finger for about two minutes, when recess was an-
nounced, and as some of the scholars came up the stairs the ap-
parition vanished through the garret door.
Rep.-Did not any of the, teachers or scholars hear you and,
your companions screaming? Clara-No, sir, The pianos were
playing down stairs and they could not hear us.
Rep.--Did the spectre beckon to all who were in the room, or
to you alone? Clara-It seemed to beckon to nobody but me.
Rep.-IDid Katie Wright and Bessie Pointer see the appari-
tion ?. Clara-They said the did, and continued to say so up to
last. Monday, but I don't know; they may only have been
frightened because I was. I think both attend the school yet,
though I heard one had been sent into the country.
Rep.-Did you tell the teachers and scholars about this when
they came up stairs? Clara-Yes, aned they laughed and said it
was only my imagination, though Bessie and Katie said. they
saw it, too,, -and were crying.
sRep.-ad you tell yo r Pa on going home, of what had oc-
cured? Clara - I did, and he ridiculed me, saying it was hallu-
cination and that I must think of'it no more, but I knew it was
not. imagination
Rep.-Did Dora Hill hear the figure at the door?  Clara -I
think she did.
Rep.-When you first saw the figure at the top of the stairway,,
what did you do ? Clara-i kept on practicing.
Rep.- -Were. you not frightened? Clara-I was not, because
I thought at first it was little Minnie Meredith..
fep.-Did byou toph playing the piano and why? Clara-I did
after a little, because 'the figurekept motionles at the head of the

stairs, and I thought-it was somebody whh wanted to speak to me,
and was waiting or me to stop. When I stopped and it cameto-
wardsinc I saw it was not a living thing. and -I screamed and ran
Rep,-What was the specire like ? Clara-Like a skeleton, all
bone and sinews, covered with a skin, through which I could see, it
being very transparent. It was a frighttul looking object. fits
teeth protruded from, the fleshless mouth and its eyes deep set, a,
ot i  the back of the head. The hair and eyes were deep black,
the hair loose ard l     i gvr. Tlio face was ugly, but at the same
time it had a lpale and sorroa lul lm~k.
Rep.-Had it any clothing?     Clara--It was dressed in very
light or faded pink, like ir etan, arid the dress was trimmed with
dingy white rouc inm. It wore aoo pink or r6d slippers or shoes,
am    not sure which.   Ihe sockings looked moulded and mil-
dewed, as did also the dress. on which there were heavy spots of
moulde ardgreenish slime. 'The shoes or slippers were also much
oelded.
Rep.-Did your conipanions see it in the same way ?  Clara-
Yes sir, they said they (id, after hearing ay description.
Rep.Did- you return -to school next day? Clara-Yes, sir.
Ro e1-Iidbyou go willingly? ('lark--No, sir ; I didn't want to
o, but pa said I would not see Lizzie agaim.
-enp olion (1you mean   y Lizzie ? Clara--I rmean the spectre.
lp.Isthat its 'ane. ('l1ra-Ytes, si.-
liep.--I owdo y ou know . C lara--She told me when I saw her
in the college yard one dty
Rep--Did     notsa
said Lzid.it not sa yits name was Mary '.Clara--No, si-; it
Rep.-What'was its last name ? Clara--lt did not tell me.
Rep-Did it iot say its name was Lizzie l)avis, Davie or Davison?
iara--No, sit"  it it wroto its full narme lbete oii the house last
Saturday and M~ond~ay- i ihts.
Rep-l  n do nyouknow it dil .? (lara-IHaveit you the papers
in thle Al rland  o fline          ?C!r-t           h  ppr
dae    -Whawasth1ename written .    Clara  At first, on Satur-
day night. Lizzie Davison, which it afterwards corrected to Davie-
It wrote Lizzie Davie araiii on Monday night.
Rep.-W \ho; first told y-ou of' Lizzie Davie?'. Clara--She told me
herself' and wrote it. I never heard it before.
Rep.-What happened at school the day after you saw the spec-
ter,?  Clara-Nothing much. I and the other girls I told you of
were in Iora Iill'a roo , which was also occupied by Emma Butts.
Rep.-What were you all doing there? Clart-Reading and
studying. I sat on Emma Butt's bed, and Bessie Pointer by me at
the foot of it. Katy Wright sat in a chair.
*   sir  ep.-Were you or they talking of the apparition ?  Clara-No,
nRep-Did you think of it?      Clara-Yes, I thought of it many
times, and felt af raid.          .togto                tmn


26

Rep.-Did it appear that.day?, Clara-It did not.
Rep.-When did you see' it again?- Clara-The next day,
Thursday.
Rep.-Under What circumstances? Clara-I was in Emma
Butt's room. Emma was there; also Dora Hill, Katy Wright and
Bessie Pointer  The door was closed. I heard a noise in the hall
as if some one was dashing water on the floor, and scrubbing with a
broom. I said, who can that be scrubbing? but did not think of
the spectre. Emma Butts went and opened the door, and the rest
of us followed. As the door opened, I saw Lizzie in the middle of
the hall. The other girls did not seem to see 'her. I screamed and
the spectre vanished, seeming to go through the garret door as b
tire. Emma Butt's and Dora Hill tried to coax me out of the no-
tion that I had seen the spectre, and that it was imagination ; but
I knew it wasn't imagination, and felt frightened.
Rep.--Did the other girls hear the no'ie in the hall? Clara-I
Jon't know, but they seemed alarmed,
Rep - Did you faint?- Clara-No, sir.
Rep.-Did you tell your people on going home? Clara--I did,
and said I would not go to school again ; but they all laughed at me,
and said I was foolish. Pa said some of'the girls were only playing
games with me, and he would see Mr. Meredith about it.
Rep.-Did he go to see Mr. Meredith? Cara-X-s, sir; he did.
Rep.-Are you a spiritualist ?  Clara-I don't know.
Rep.-Have you ever considered yourself a spiritualist? Clara
-No, sir.
Rep.-Did you ever hear any one talk of spiritualism ? Clara-
Never, until the jar was dug for.
Rep.-Have you ever attended spiritual meetings or spiritual
manifestations? Clara-I have not.
Rep.-Do you believe in spiritualism?  Clara-I don't know ;
I never though anything about it ; [ don't understand it.
Rep.-Do you believe there are such things as spirits? Clara-
Yes, sir; for I have seen one.
Rep.-Whose ? Clara-Lizzie is a spirit.
Rep.--Hlow do you know ? .Clara-She told  me, and I have
seen her.
-Rep.-Have you ever seen other spirits? Clara-I have not.
Rep.-You never believed in spirits before. Clara-No, sir ;
but I am sure I do now.
Rep.-Now, Clara, don't you know you see the apparition only
with your mind's eye? Clara-Oh, no, sir'; [ saw it with my real
eye, as I see you now, and it has talked to me as I now talk to you.
I am sure of that.
Rep.-Who first told you about Jennie ? Clara-Who is Jen-
nie ?.
Rep.--The spectre. Clara-Her name is Lizzie.
Rep.--Dindn't you tell me awhile ago her name was Jennie7
Clara--No, sir ; I know her name too well.

27

Rep.-Well, who first told]you of Lizzie ?  Clara--Slie told me
herself.
Rep.-When and where did you first see Mrs. Nourse? Clara
--A week ag Tuesday at pay's office.
Rep.-You had heard of her before that time ? Clara-No, '1
never did; I told you so before.
Rep.-What did she say ? Clara-She told me to speak to Liz-
zie it she appeared again.
Rep.--When did your pa first tell youthat there was something
buried in the College garden ? Clara'-HIe never told me.
Rep-Who did tell youC? Clra--Nobody      told me but the
spectre.
Rep.--When did you see the spectre again, and what occurred
Clara-The next Monday. Feeling afraid of the spectre, I would
not go up stairs, but went into room No. 5 on the first floor to prac-
tide. Miss Jackey Boone, the teacher, wouldn't let any one go in
with me, so I went in alone and fastened the door with the knob-
catch. After I had played about five minutes. the door suddenly
flew open, and looking around I saw the spectre standing in the
hall. It looked as it did before, but had in one of its hands a little
hag and a stick with.a sharp point. The bag looked as if made of
bed-ticking, and the stick looked old and rusty ; it might have been
iron. The spectre glided toward me and stood in the doorway.  I
ran to the windows'and tried-to .get out, but could not open them.
1 then tried to get throult the door, and was caught by the dress
by Lizzie, who held mae with one hand, while with the other she
shook the little bag up near its ear. Something sounded like brass
or tin. I screamed and broke away, rushing into Miss Boon's
room, on the opposite side of the hall. She was giving music les-
sons to some of the girls. The spectre first tried to keep me from
fretting out of the room in which I was in. When I got to Miss
Boon's room I told her the little iod girl was in No. 2. She took me
by the hand and we went back andl hantedall around the room, and
in the hall, but saw nothing. Miss Boone would not believe re.
and laughed at me real hard.
Rep.-Was Mr. Meredith there ?  Clara-Yes, sir. He laughed-
too, and said he would set a trap for the ghost. After which he
scolded me for frightening the girls.
Rep.-What occurred next"! Clara-Next day I went up to pa's
office before going to school, and saVv Mrs. Nourse there, She was
talking to him about some business. - Pa told her about Lizzie, and
she told me I must speak to it,, that it would do me no harm. F
then went to. school, In the afternoon, myself and some other girls
were in the hall watching for the ghost, when it came up suddenly.
I don't know where it came from. It seemed to rise out of the floor.
I screamed and some of thesother girls screamed too. Bessie Point-
er says she saw a shadow. Frida Stewart swung her arms all about
her as if to keep the spirit away, and seemed to be unable to control
them, -as they kept swinging some time. Sonic of the girls urged

A


28
me to speak to the spirit, but I declined through fear. Etich ono
spoke to it, but seemed to get no answer, and then I was urged again
to speak to it, I'then said  In the name of the Lord,"-that's the
way Iwas told to address it- what do you 1w a it.,' It pointed to-
wards some stumps on the west side of the houe, and told me to go
and dig five Feet under a stump, and I would find a jar that would
be of value to me. I ran to the window and looked out at the stump,
and way turning to ask which stump, when it vanished. I was much
excited, but not as much afraid as I had been before. The spectre
had the stick and little bag again, and looked very sad and pitiful,
but seemed to cheer up aidd get less ug ly when I spoke.
Rep.-Did any of thel othes girls see it? Clara-Bessie Pointer
said she saw a shadow, and also heard a sort of mumbling, and
thought she heard the word stump.
Rep.-When did you see this thing ag-in ? Clara-On Wednes-
day. I went to the garden to sharpen my slate pencil, and while so
engaged I saw the figure appear on a stump and try to call my nt-
tice. I pretended not to see it, and went on sharpening my pencil,
when it started towards toe with its arms stretched out. I was not
rruch atraid at first, and thought if I appeared not to notice it it
would go away; but when it came towards me I got very much
frightened, screamed loudly and attempted to run away. It stepped
on another stump, looked very pitiful and' said, pAeal ingly :  Don't
be afraid of me ; I will not hurt you ; my name is Lizzie. What I
an about to say you must not tell anybody but your father."  I
stood as if fastaned to the spot. The figure then went on to say that
she was the last of her people, and that the property belonged to her
-I mean the college property. She said she wanted me to have it,
because I had set her free by speaking to her. That Mr. Brinkley
claimed the property, but it'did not belong to him, and that he should
not have it-she would take it away from him. It I didn t get the
property no one could ever live in the house in peace. Sne had
haunted the place for a long time but could never, get anybody she
wanted to speak to her,'but now she felt free because I had spoken
to her, and for that reason she wanted me to have the place-Mr.
Brinkley had no right to it. She then told me again there was
something under that stump that would be of value to me-the
stump on which she stood. It then vanished, and I ran into the
house.C
Rep.-Did the spectre say all her people were dead ? Clara-No;.
she said she was the last one who had any right to that property-.
Rep.-Did you feel glad at the prospect of getting the property ?
Clara-I did not think anything about it.
Rep.-Did you believe there was anything under t e stump?
(lara-I was sure of it after she told me.
Rep.-Did you ever think so before?   Clara-I neve did, and
never knew until Lizzie told me about anything being buried there.
Rep.-Do you believe a jar was dug up there?  Clara.-I know
there was.

29

Rep.-Ts it the jar the apparition spoke of? Clara-I know it ir.
Rep.-Didr't somebody put it there after the digging was done?
(Clara-I don't think so.
Rep.-Is there anything else there? Clara- I don't know.
Rep-Have you the jar now ? Clara-I have not.
Hop.-Is it in a safe place ?  Clara-Yes, sir.
'Rep.-How do you know?    Clara-My pai told me so.
Rep-Why is it not to be opened in sixty days? Clara-Be-
cause the spirit wrote that it must pot'be opened in sixty days; or
untilI got well.
R- p.--When ?  Clara-On Monday night.
Rep.-Do you know    what it contains ? Clara-I think I do.
Rep.-Did not Lizzie tell you what was in it ? Clara-No. She
wrote on Saturday night that it had money, jewelry and valuable
papers.
Rep.-flow did it come to write ? Clara-Mrs. Nourse was here.
Rep.-Was that the first time you saw Mrs. Nourse ? Clara--
Eo sir. I saw her once before at pa's office.
Rp-Did you go hack to school after Wednesday ? Clara--
No; I didn't want to go and then it rained Thursday and Friday.
Rep.-When did you next have comm wunication with this spectre?
Clara-On Saturday night.
R ep.-What did it say ? Clara-It said nothing, but wrote
many things, which were given to a reporter who came here.
Rep. -Vas that here, in your house ? Clara-Yes sir ; I was in
a trance or asleep, and don't know much of what was written, ex-
(ept that it was the same Lizzie had told me before.
Rep.-How did you feel ? Clara-I didn't feel anything, but
afterwards felt like I had been asleep.
Rep.-Vaat occurred next? Clara-We all went town to the
college to find the stump.
Rep.-Did you point out the stump?   Clara-Not at first, be-
cause.I wasn't sure which was the stump, but my friends told me
to call upon Lizzie, and I did so. She appeared anu showed me
the stump and said to dig on one.side of it.
Rep.-Hadn't Lizzie pointed it out to you before?  Clara-She
(lid, but she ran from one stump to another to get near me, and I
was uncertain which of the stumps was the right one.
Rep -Did you believe there was anything under the stump ?
Clara-I was sure there was, because Lizzie told me.
Rep.-Did'nt your pa and Mrs. Nourse tell you so too ? Clara-
They never said anything about it.
Rep. What took place at the college ? Clara  Do you mean on
Saturday night ?
Rey. , Yes. Clara  After the spirit pointed out the place, the
men commenced digging, and I went home.
Rep. Did the spectre look as before? Clara   Just the same,
and very sad and earnest.
Rep. Why did you call on it? Clara       Because the crowd
asked me to so as to be sure of the place.

A


30
Rep.   When did you see Bessie again ? Clara  Do you mean
Bessie Pointer ?
Bep       ?he apparition. Clara  On Monday morning, in the
yard back of the house.
yre. IDid you go to school that day ?  Clara  No, sir.
Hep. How did you come to see it? Clara    I called on it to
appeas' My sister told me to do so. tit  'Chara           Be-
[Rep. Why did your sister ask you to sunon i      a
cause she wanted me te ask it the  en were di    handrygt.
e     What did Lizzie say  Cara    called her hardly thinly
ing she would come ; but ,she did come and seemed very mournful.
I was frightened, but did not run away' I asked my sister'if she
did not see it., and she sahV no.  I then spoke to Lizzie and asked
her if the iern were digging in the right )lacC. She said no j they were
shunning the right place, and wanted to get the secret themselves.
and that I must go and dig. She then left noe. ,w- he vanished
Rep. Where did she go.? Clara   I dont knt,  zzie aayfroni
Rep. Was this the first time you had se'on Lizzie away
the college? Clara  It was, but she wrote Saturday night-
Rep-LW hat did you do after Lizzie di-eppeared   Claa-M
ndulsM rs. Wasson had gone to the college and they sent for me. I
wat with  Mias Franklin. When I got there, the ladies g t all
aind      id I omust call Lizzie to tell the .men where to di.
I refused at first, but afterwards did call, and just as I said  izzie,
I saw her rise up behind one of the men, who wai d      g a
point to one side of the hole.
1- ep.-Hadl they not dug in the Tight place?  Clara  They
started right, bultt sladnted oil' in diggin, and got away tom the ja'.
Rep. What kind of a Jar was it ? Clara   I don't k     tow  , it
looked lilee an earthen jar, but I could only see the top of in'
rim, over which there seemed to be something lie   - i. twa
little to one side of where the men were (ligging-
Rep. Did you tell the negro to change?  Clara  Yes  but he
seemed to be afraid, or didn't want to change.
Rep. What then? (hara    Lizzie said I must dig, f   t
Rep. Were you frightened ? Clara   Very munch   I felt trea-,
hirng all over.
Rep. What did you do?     Clara  I told my ma and others
w   ie said, and they advised me to get into the hole and dig-
I hesitted, but finally did get into the hole and commenced to diy.
1 turned one spade full and was about to turn another, when I saw
the jar ; I stooped to take hold of it, and fainted.h came to I
Rep. What next?     Clara  I lon't know, when I cae t
was on the porch of the college and'the men were digging.
then went home.
Rep. Did you go back again?    Clara  I did not.
Rep. How came the brickwork under the stump .Clara
do not know.               1-u       lr     ooytl       eay
Rep. Did'nt some one tell 3 -?  Clara  Nobody told me any
thing about 't.

I

31
Rep. Did you ever dream anything about it? Clara   I did
not.
Rep. When was the jar found ? Clara    On Monday night.
Pa found i t
ia ud How came he to find it ? Clara Lizzie wrote that he
must go, becaus:E, I was too 'weak and nervous
Rep. Who went with him ? Clara    Mrs.'Nourse.
Rep. Did he bring the jar ? Clara. He did, and gave it to me.
Ilel. Did you believe it was the jar that they found in the
hole? Clara   I was sure of it
ie1). Don't yon think he played a trick on you ? Clara
am sure he (lid not.
Rep. You believe it to be the jar ? Clara. ,I say I'm sure of it.
Rep. fow did you feel after your pa gave you the jar ? Clara.
I felt real glad.
Rep. Because you felt so rich ? Clara. Because [ felt- that
Lizzie and 1 were out of trouble.
Rep. Were not you and Lizzie very fond of each other when
he child ren ? (lara. I never knew her.
ilep. Why, then, has she haunted you? Clara. I'm sure I
ca'lit tell.-
Rl). Has she appeared to you since the jar was found ? Clara.
Yesir ; .1 saw her Wednesday night ; that is, I saw her face,
Rlep. Where ? There, over the parlor door, right under that
nail.
Rep. What was she doing there? Clara   I dou.'know.-
Rep. What did she say ? Clara   She only smiled.
Rep. How long did stay ? Clara about two minutes.
Rep. Were you not frightened ? Clara Oh, no ; I am  not
afraid of her ; she looks better every time ; she has less of a grave
1ok about ho' now.
Rep. Why have you seen her more than once since the jar
was found, ? Clari I sawher again Thursday morning.
Rep. Where? Clara    In Ma's room, I was writing a letter
to my sister, and she camne up between the table and the wall,
looking much better than before, and smiling at me.  She wore
the same clothes; but they looked cleaner, an dshe more heavenly
han earthly. - I asked her what she wanted, and she said she had
come to see me, and told me I must give her love to my sister to
whom I was writing.
Rep. Where is Lizzie now? Clara I don't think I do-
Rep, Who put the jar in 'that hole ? Clara  I don't know
Lizzie never told me. She would'nt tell me.
 Rep.-Why? Clara    i don't know.
Rep. Why does Lizzie loo k better now than before the jar
was found? Clara I don't k iow, except that it is because she
feels free and is passing away.
Rep. Are you afraid to go in dark places alone ? Clara  Oh
yes; I would't go out in that hall or any oiher dark -place for
anything.

a


32
Rep. Do you expect to see Lizzie again ? Clara I'um sure I
don't kn ow-
Rep. How old is Lizzie ? Clara   I don't know; she looks as
if-she might be six or eight years old.
.Rep. Well, Clara, have'nt I worn you with questions ? Clara
Oh, io4; I'll answer all you want- I have been asked many more
questions than you have asked me.
Rep   Do you know why I ask you these question ? Clara
I suppose you want to put it all in the newspaper.
Rep. Have you answered all my questions truthfully ?lCla-
ra Yes, sir.
Rep. Would you swear it ? Clara   Yes. sir.
Rep. Did the girls in the school believe in your  viiongs
Clara They did at first, but Mr. .\Ieredeth and the teachers made
tun of them and laghed them out of it;
So ended the interview, which the strange child bore with
singular patience and good nature, never faltering or stammer-
ing under the most rigid examination. See ' as cross-examined
many times, and gave the direct answer.'
Leveral curious facts are worthy of mention ;in connection
with the narrative of this girl, and are topics of excitsd and earn-
est discussion in all circles. Briefly they are as follows:
There was a a Lizzie Davie, and she died at Brinkley College
some time in 1860.
She is described by persons who remembered her well as a
child of remarkable intelli rence, beauty precociasnIess, and sne
had black flowing hair and black eyes.
Persons who Were at her funeral says she was laid out and
buried in a dress of pink; with white trimming, and pink slippers.
They remember this from the singularity of the dress, it being the
custom almost universally to shroud children in wliite.- She was
about six or eight years of' agze, and is well remembered for her
beauty, brightness and goodness. It is remembered by old and
reliable citizens that there was a chancery suit about the ground on
which 'Brinkley College stands, and that there was much scandal at
the time. Thie college was built by Mr. Davie for a residence about
1855. The chancery suit, as can be remembered, concerned the
ground only. It matters not about the jar alleged to have been
found under the stump at Brinkley college. Clara Robertson in
the object of interest. Who will undertake to explain her case,
theoretically or practically.
CHAPTER VI.
Last evening a number of persons, friends of the family, were
sitting in the parlors, when a noise was heard in the back yard, as
of some persons talking. Mr. Robertson remarked that some per-
son was evidently in the yard and went out to see what was the

t

0  3
matter', Nothing was seen or, heard of him for about five minutes,
when a, servantnn kytwn as Joe, came running into the-parlor
and said-that Mr.,o 'ertson waslying dead in the back part of the
yard. Several of the gentlereri, accompanied by Joe, immedhstely
proceeded to where M r. Robertson was, and found hia lying insen-
sible in a ppol. of, blopd near a small stable in the rear of his lot, He "'-
was carried into t't l ousre, a physician was sent -for, and'in a few.
minutes Dr. H.     W h arrived and at once admtiistered restora-
tives and proceeded to examine the wounds upon M. Robertson's
head. Ho found a, Ianrg ugly-looking wound, that appeared as'Wif
made with a knife orsome sharp instrument, extending four inches
over the forehead, from" the left eye back toward the crown of: his
head, and aldo the marks eo fa person's fingers'upon his throat, as if.
he had been cho'ld,  It was about a half an hour before Mr. Rob-
ertson was fully restored to eonn ;o _ ness and in a condition'to state
how he..had received his wounds.'. Some one rearked that they
thought they her, 'a noise in the back yard, and Mr. R; telling
them that he would beback in 'a few minutes,started out, and when
he got out of the house he could see no one, and walking back, en-
tered an outhouse attached to the premises. Just as he stepped in
the :outhouse, he noticed a couple of inen standingunder a low wood
shed about ten feet from where he was. He had but just noticed
them, and ha not hacd timo to give any alarm, when the men rushed
out from under the shed and caught hold of him, one of them at the
same instant shoving a pistol in front of his face, and telling him to
give no alarm or they would kill him. . Mr. Robertson states ti'ft
he asked thetit not to shoot him, when they ordered him out of the
house, in the door of which he was standing, and then with a pis-
tol in his face marched him about twenty-five yards, back to the ex-
treme rear of the lot, to where a small stable is situated. When
they got in there they were met by two other men, who were evi-
dently waiting for them. As soon as they were in the stables one
of the men said to him nWe have come after that jar, and you have
got to tell us where it is or we'll kill you."  Mr. Robertson, fearing
for his life, told them that the, jar was underneath the seat in the
outhouse attached to a rope. and' told them how to get it. Two-of
the men at.oace started to 'the outhouse, while the other two.,re-
nmained with him,guarding him, with thnir pistols pointed at his
head and threatening to kill him if he attempted to escape or made
any noise. In about two minutes the men returned with the jar in
their possession, when one of the men who had been guarding the
prisoner, suddenly grasped him by the throat and applying a vile epi-
thet to him, commenced choking him severely. Mr R. begged the
man for God's sake not to kill him, as they now had what they
wanted; and while he was 'still speaking, another of the ruffians
struck him a violent blow over the'head with what 'he supposed was a
pistol and rendered 'him unconcious. Just before he was struck he
-cried oue : "Oh,' Joe, come to me quick;" and it was this cry evident-
ly that caused him to be struck, It is supposed that the, men fled
immediately after hitting him, as when his servant, Joe, arrived' a few

c,


84
minutes later no traee of them was to be seen. When Mr. R.'s ser-
vant did reach the scene, which wai as soon as he could get there
after hearing the cry for help, he found that gentleman, as we have
stated, lying. in an insensible condition in a poolof blood just outside
ofthe stable door, and upon making the discovery at once gave the
alarm. Mr. Robertson says he had a good look at the two assailants
who were under - the wood shed and made the first attack upon him.
He described one of the them as being a man of 'meditam size, light
hair, light coipplexion, dressed in a suit of dark clothes. He did
not notice any distinguishing marks, beyond those above give upon
the men, but thinks he could recognize them if he were to see them
again. Dr. Shaw had carefully dressed his wounds and he felt very
well, beyond a sharp pain in his head, caused by the wound. Mr.
Robertson states that.he received on Monday morning a letter telling
him that violence was intended him, but thought nothing of it until
this attack ; and yesterday evening when he came home from his of-
tee he brought a letter directed to Mrs. Nurse, who was stopping at
his house, telling her that violence was intended him for his connec-
tObn with the jar. The question now is, who. attacked Mr. Roberts'
son ? and at whose instigation was the attack made?  Are there any
persons who feared the results of tde jar opening ?  Were the ruffians
actuated by a desire to plunder, believing the jars' contents to be
valuables'?  This seems to be the most probable theory , as Mr. R..
during the entire excitement growing out of the Brinkley College
fair, has only, like hundreds of others, sought to unravel the mys-
tery ; is a man, whose life is blameless, and we doubt it he has a per-
sonal enemyin6 the world.,
The arrangements being perfected, it only remained to secure the
Opera Wouse, procure tickets and proceed at the appointed time to
operythe mysterious jar. But, alas ! our troubles are not yet ended,
although we had passed through the fiery ordeal of the most fierce °
and unrelenting persecution, while the voice of the vilest slanderer
had ceased not to echo from the sea hound shores of the East to the
golden valle s of the West. Although we Ihad perfected our plans
thus far, and the hope of speedy deliverance from our troubles was
inspiring us to still persevere. Yet we were doomed to learn that
behind the throne was a power that even woman, with all her love-
liness and virtue ministering, as only woman can, to the wants of
the living, cooling the fevered parched lips of the dyeing, and fol-
lowing to their last resting place the remain of the dead, dare not
come' in contact. The Bishop disapproves the entire programme
and with one fell swoop of his mortal pen disorganizes the whole
ghost fraternity, and does not so much as ca I at our sanctum and
pass hi.j hands over us, or direct us to wash ur hands in the river
Jordan, or send his man Friday to apprise us of our horrible fate,
but notifies the'world in general, and mankind in particular, through
the Appeal, that the contribution proposed would not be accepted":'
Editors Appeal-Will you kindly inform the public that the ex-
hibition announced for Thursday night n xt, at the Greenlaw

Opera House, not being approved, no part of the proceeds will be
accepted by the Church Home.                C. T. QUINTA1tD,
Episcopal Residence, March 27:.    President Board Manigers.
To relirve us. however, from this dilemma that great and noble
physician, that true patriotic spirit that bows only to the God t4t
gave it, Dr. A. K. Taylor, assumed the responsibility on behalf '1f
his excellent wife, and undertook to distribute the funds for the
benefit of the suffering &amp;f the city. From the time the communi..
cation requesting the opening of the jar in public feared, he was
in daily receipt of letters warning him not to at mpt such a pro-
ceedir.e, least his life and the life of Clara should pay the forfeit.
In addition to this he was repeatedly admonished-by friends that a
deeply concerted plan had been concocted which was to result it,
the capture of the jar before it reached the Greenlaw Opera House,
to all of which, however, he gave but little credence, and still per-
sisted in eatrying out his published programme. -And now without
stopping to notice the many vauge undefined theories that have
been advanced relative to the ghost, the jar, the Brinkley property,
etc., etc., we must close this little narrative after adducing our proof
as to one or two points. And, first, as to the finding the jar, that
it was found as heretofore published in the Avalanche. We assert,
without the shadow of a fear of successful contradiction, but for the
benefit of skeptics and unbelievers, insert the following.affidavits :
STATE OF TENNEssEI, SHELBY COUNTY.
Personally appeared before me, John E. Burke, J. P. for said
county, William Taylor, Joseph L. Pierson and Ransom Christopher,
who, being duly sworn, deposes as follows, to-wit: States, that on
the 5th of March, inst., that they were employed by J. R. Robert-
son toassist in digging up a stump near Brinkley Female College,
in the city of Memphis, that they did so assist and finished the
work as directed, but failed to find the treasure supposed to be there.
That on] the evening of ths 6th, which was the ensuing evening,
they were again employed by said Robertsonto dig again at the
same place, but was instructed to dig over a certain brick work
that had been discovered while making the excavation the pre-
vious evening, that they  went to the   place and  commenced
to dig as instructed, that when they had gone down about two and
a half feet, said Ro ertso, accompanied by Mrs. Nourse, came to
them ; that Mrs. Nohrse remarked that the instructions were for Mr.
Robertson to dig himself. Whereupon said Robertson tobk off his
coat, got into the place already dug out, and commenced to dig,
and after he had descended about one foot found a glass jar under a
portion of said brick work, and dug it out. It was picked up by
M rs. Nourse, and the whole crowd, consisting of some fifty persons,
proceeded to Robertsons house, where quite a number, including
ourselves, examined said jar. Affiant states that from the time said
Robertson took the spade out of Taylor's hand until the jar was
dug up,-they were within four or five feet of him, watching every spade
full of dirt that was taken up, and knows that there was no deception,
on the part of Robertson as to the fin ding of the same. Affiants

A


34)
fourth e .ttw that they were as owitfiin a fe  feet of Mrs. Nonrse
duriggthedinp that RQbertson  was diggi, an.' knows that she hfd
Sod  iekvakcorp other garrment wits which  she concealed 'said jar
rUbat she wore a light shawl ofe  r hi dk  a  d could not possibly
h 6ieonealed the jar under"  ;gd beside that she h d ho pos-
n sae chance do have depoited s:pdja riietide he brick?fiir  whore
it wastta4enafter she care. Aflfapts fiithers ats that they have no
interest in the jar or its contents.  JI. L. # IERSO,
-..                                       WYrIAX  T'AYLOR,
.Akoy CIrarstoPHER.
"dorn   -and subscribed- befo  me this 2th'day of March, 1871.
~orn~ and ubscibed.IbefoO        E. Bunis v, I. IP.
-     This'is t certify that I was _called to s eeir. ". PF. Robertson on
the night of ,the 28th ofMarch, ajgy found that he- had' a'wound, I
hlii'ak an - incision, on .the forehead also saw bruises on the ahblo-
mrn: from which he seemed to uffer very much ;: also was called
ogneasysafterward, aid fotiuid that he ivas suffering froma.tic
troubles., -                               H. 5. SHAW, M.D.
I ama Po 'eem  - went to the house :of J.R. Robortson, at No.
261-DeSoto .street, o  the night of the 68th of March, some
titneafter' he was hurt, found him  on the bed with a cat, on 'his
head;fWent into his back yard, in company with Mr. McAliff, an-
other Policeman, examined the prrnises ; foundin the back lot,
near a stable, the tracks of thrl men,who had come in at the back
end pf the: lot and passed out the sam'e lway. One of the t racks
was that of a large boot.or oure thoe, very 'broad ; another looked
like common boot trek /and the other aitfine boot. We got a light
and examined the tracks carefatlly. Saw no persons and made no
arrests.              *                      PAT. McEItaOY.
I was present at the house of J. .R, Roberts6n on .the night of
the 28th of, March, seated i  the parlor; heard an excitement
in his back yard,; went out yi company with several others; met
several parties conveying.hi m ; into the house ; he was in   a'state of
entire insensibility. I examiner fgr pulse, found none a minister-
ed restoratives ; examined p cut on- his head that was then bleed-
Jog; after .some time he wavsputially restored. I helped him up
:tnd  e vomited blood. Dr. Shaw  was--sent for and came before be
was ully restored to conciousoipss.             5. B. hAYs.
4 nd now, reader, it only remains for us to give the contents of
the mysterious jar, and there is , prospect of securing its captors, as
revealed to Miss Clara whilh in an entranced state with a view solely
to that object. The jar containedtwo'thousand dolla-s in gold, one
set of gold jewelry and diamond necklace. The paper envelope
contained valuable papers, the contents'of which we deem unim-
portant to publish at present. . The portraits of the four'captors
were portrayed to her mind with such vivid, life-like accur iey' as to
enable her at a glance to recognize one of them, and write his name
with unmistakeable certainty. The name of one other has since
been obtained, and every possible means are being employed to
ft        bring the thieves to justice.


ERATTA.
On page five beginning second paragraph read Saturday instead of Monday
The communication on page seventeen should precede communication on
page sixteen.
On page twenty-one, ninth line from bottom, read divide proceeds.
On page twenty-two second line from top read they addressed.


  
             
         
       
   
