
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, Charles Hatch.. George Melville .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7805
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            George Melville 
            
               GEORG'E -'MELVILLE
4                          t
AN AMERICAN NOVEL.
"The true and only friend is he,
Who, like the arbor vite tree,
Will bear our image on his heart."
NEW     YORK:"
W. R C. CLARK &amp; CO.,
Appleton's Building, 346 &amp;348 Broadway.
MDCCCLVIII,


C ON TENT S.
I.
George Melville and Thomas F. Griswold determine that "Old Sassy"
had better look out.  .

t3

Entered according to Act of Congress, 'n ,he year 1858, by
W. R. C. CLARK          &amp;  CO.,
In the Clerk's Office of the United States District Court, for the Southern District of New York.

II.
Horses versus Thorn-Apple Tree Limbs,

III.

"Wait for the Wagon,"

IV.
The Boyhood Days of George Melville,

.                  27t

V.
The Excursion Party for Niagara--Astor House-James Mordaunt--
ThePlot,   .    .    .   .    .    .   .    .    .   .   80

VI.
Aurora--Cayuga Lake-The Pie-nic.

.       a        0       *      ~e

40

VII.

Clara Edgemonte's Mistake.

.           ,"    ,     ,     ."   51

W. H. TcisoN, Stereotyper ani Printer,
Ur aof 4s &amp;5 Centre St., N.Y.

VIII.
Melville's and Griswold's Tour-A true Hand and firm Seat always
come in Play.    .                                         5 3-

] o 2x .

S

.                14

. 22


CONTENTS. V

CONTE NTS.
IX.

Sunset at Niagara-James Mordaunt's Declaration, .   .   .   62
X.
The Morning Walk-An Old Friend in Duplicate,   .   .    .   68
Hon. B. F. Mortimer-H. B. Edgemonte, Esq.-James Mordaunt,
Esq.-Frederick Mortimer-Thomas F. Griswold-George Melville
-Mrs. Mortimer-Mrs. Edgemonte-Bell Mortimer-Clara Edge-
monte-The Breakfast-Party,     .   .    .    .    .   .   72
XII.
Bob Shank-The Fire-The Cave,     .    .   .    .   .    .e 77
XIII.
,Bell hates the Rain, but finally has no Objection to it-Miss Black-
wood's Party,      .    .      .   .    .    .   .    -   81
XIV.
Various Things material both to the Story and the Reader-The Cat-
fish Railroad Scheme,     .    .   .    .    .   .    .   89
XV.

Ahead-Back again,

.".                .  07

XVI.
Who is Uncle Sam-Syracuse--Camillus-Junction-Auburn-A New
York Lawyer obtains a Case (a hard one),  .   .    .   . 100
XVII.-
The   Dinner  Party   at Aurora-The     Telegram-Mrs.    Tryon's
Glance,       .       .   .    .    .    .    .    .   . 112
XVIII.
Broadway; New York-James Mordaunt, Esq., at his Office in Wall
street-Is he a Married Man?    .    .    .    .    .   . 116'

XIX.
Rev. John Furnace-The Funeral-The Lawsuit-The Catfish Rail-
road Stock at a Premium,   .   .    .      .   .    .  122
XX.
Arrival of the Liverpool Steamer-New York Firemen-Griswold's
Heroism-The Catfish Railroad Stock falling-Trouble,  . 128
XX'.

Short but Interesting,

*    *.   *                184

XXII.
A Sail on Cayuga Lake before Breakfast-Thermometer thirty Degrees
below Zero-Two Miles a Minute under a fair Wind-Bell Mortimer
takes an Observation-The Surprise not a Surprise-The Race
Home-The Ice-boat too much for the Horses-The Runaway-The
Rescue-Love told without Words-Death e1 heated of his Prey, 136
XXIII.

Plans for the Future,

.              .      .      .     -               .   154

XXIV.
Commencement Day at Hamilton College-William Hastings-How a
Clerk in New York City fnay obtain a Partnership,  .  . 159
XXV-

A Friend in Need, .

166

XXVI.
New York City Corporation tbounsel-All Marriage Notices not
agreeable,  -   -    .    .   .    -                 . 175

XXVII.

4

Sarah E. Graham's call at Mordaunt's Law Office-A cool Scene-
Jes J Mordaunt In trouble,.    .    .   .. 179

George Melville under a Cloud,

.     .  .     .0 18

1r


Vi                       CONTENTS.
XXIX,
The Metropolis of America never sleeps-Scene in Twenty-third
street late at Night,. .             .         .            195

xxx.
An Arrest--A Promise made, and a Promise given,:.

CONTENT-S.

vii

XXXIX.
Fort-Hill Cemetery-" Who is there to Mourn for Logan ?"-How to
carry on a Correspondence with a Convict-Distant View of the Au-
burn State Prison-=Bell Mortimer in her Sanctum,     . 265
XL.
A Change in the progress of Events foreshadowed-Exercise of Wits
-The Statesman proves too much for the-Lawyer,   .    .'275
XLI.
An Alumnus of Hamilton College, nolens volens, becomes a Skillful
Mechanic,   ...      .-.      .    .    .   .    .    .286

.     .  203

XXXI.
A Station on the N. Y. Central Railroad-Car Manufactory-Recep-
tion of a Convict at the Auburn State Prison-.The Model Prison
of the United States,  .  .  .    .   .    .   .    . 212

XXXII.

More about the Prison,

.      .      .     .      .      .

XLII

. 230

A Ray of Hope,     .    .

.       .      .       0      .   290

XXXIIL
James Mordaunt, Esq., triumphs,  .    .  .,    .    .   . 234
XXXIV.
Mr. M---l, Chief of the New York Police, puts his Private Seal upon
a Coffin in Greenwood Cemetery, .  .    .    .   .    . 238
XXXV.

A Council of War,

.s                .           .        247

XXXVL
A Smash-up in Broadway, N. Y.-The New York
York Press-Sarah E. Graham a Lunatic,

XLIII.
Woman's Rights-The State Lunatic Asylum       at Utica, Oneida
County, N.Y.,    .   .    .    .   .    .    .      . - 800
XLIV.
The Arrest-Interview with the Governor of the Empire State, 315
XLV.
A Mountain in Massachusetts-The Home of an ex-President of the
United States,   .    .   .    .   .    .    .   .    . 323
XLVI.
Another Telegram-Early rising sometimes proves very agree-
able,  .    .    .   .    -    -   -    -   .     -   . 329
XLVII.
Bell Mortimer makes the Acquaintance of Sarah E. Graham,   338
XLVIIL
The Homestead of, an American Mechanic-A Proposition    . 343

Hospital-The New
.  250

XXXVIL.

Bell and Charger,

- .2571

XXXVIII.
An Ante-Breakfast Ride-The Homestead of an American States-
ma,              .    .    .                               262


...  ~CONT1E-NTs.
ViiiC2{ElT5
XLIX.
Trial of the Action " Wilcox against Mordaunt"-Thomas F. Griswold,
Squire, addresses the Jury-The Utica Asylum again-One of th
Biters bitten,".  -       -   -    -   -
L.
Death of   Newew York City Policeman-A Trial, Sentence, and Exe-
cution-Ought Governors to hold the Pardoning Power?  . 3855
LI.
'''  -363
The Island Martha's Vineyard,   .        -   -        -
LII.
Sunday-school in Prison-The Chaplain and his Convict Congregation
-A   Convict who had well earned his position reflects-Two
Deaths,6.   .   .    -   -    -   -  . '        '   '   9

LIII.
A Wedding -Weddintg Tour--ConclUsion,

-  -  39

GEORGE MELVILLE.

George Melville and Thomas F. Griswold determine that "Old Sassy"
had better look out.
"CoME in !" said George Melville, in reply to'a
triple knocking upon his study' room doorV at the
same instant rising to'greet his visitor.
" Ah, Tam !" continued Melville, "is that really
you at last? I had settled it for a finality that you
were growing sickly."
"I kave grown 8iclo of lying to that impudent
candy peddler. He has dunned me three times to
day; and you know our necessary expenses do not
admit of any liquidation at present. The ball at
Bridgewater severely punished an X and V; the two
rides to Utica whipped $11 75; the Christy iMinstrels
and. two suppers at Baggs's made away.with $10
and then the general effort to satisfy the inner  i
at Austin's.  However, the score for that is charged.
in account. Austin is the only sensible man in this
community. There is but one course left.  George,
you must help me pay off 'Old Sassy.' The bar
.. _ ,          "_x              "      , .l1 *   0 t_ t3 ' 'vF


GEORGE MELVILLE.    11

idea that that candy peddler should have detained me
this evening makes my nerves quiver."
"Just in time ! Just in time !" said George, seat-
ing himself and assuming a very thoughtful expres-
sion of countenance,
"What's up, George ?" said Tam.
"Got a remittance from my governor this A.M.,
at ten o'clock and fifteen minutes," replied George.
" No ! How was that? I thought .your trials and
tribulations with the august Faculty had proved an,
effectual wind-up of all further donations," said Tom.
Nota bit ! not a bit !  The note about the three
warnings, it would appear, did not arrive," gravely
answered George.
"Ah ! I see ! I perceive! I apprehend !" said
Tam; "the letter was stopped in transit 7"
"Just so," replied George.
"Capital ! capital !" said Tam. "One more tri-
unph of mind over matter:  But, I don't fancy let-
ting ' Old Sassy' have his w y without instilling into
his mind a due sense of  y importance. He sells
sarsaparilla candy;. and, for ,that reason, has been
duly honored with the proud title of ' Sassy.' Now,
in my case, he imagines that sassy in name and sassy
in game are to be coexistent facts. Come, George,
ever since I left the active scenes of old Gotham for
this collegiate habitation, you have been my only
solace in affliction. What do you propose ?"
"Can't propose! can't propose! -There are four
points in the case which require profound reflection,"
replied George, assuming a solemnly benevolent, pa-
tronizing air.
"Of;course ! Of course !" said Tam. You mean,
flrt, the proprieties ?"

" Yes," said George.
"Second, the necessities ?"
"Yes," said George.
" Third, the difficulties ?"
"Yes," said George, without changing the expres-
sion of his countenance.
"Fourth, and lastly, the prudential calculations ?"
To this George answered by a profound inclination-
of the head and shoulders.
"Very well, George !" continued Tam; "I'm dry as
an Arab on the great Sahara. Let us hunt up an
oasis where they sell snifters."
"All right !" replied George. So, putting on a
thick overcoat, for the air was chilling, the two
'friends started for Clinton Village.
Clinton Village, in the county of Oneida; and
State of New York, is classic ground. The states-
man, lawyer, physician, divine, author, mechanic,
agriculturist, each and all, look back to her with
pride and affection. That time will never come
when the attachments of youth for person and
place fail to become the pride of manhood. When
nature has almost exhausted her skill in modelling
and framing the scene ; and, when man has used his
best endeavor to improve upon nature, the reasons
are clearly apparent why Clinton and its surroundin
scenery is truly beautiful. Is it very wonderful,
that, to the student, so much beauty of nature an
art should become classic ground?
*      *       * .,          *
"Yes, Tam," said George Melville, as he lightly
tipped his glass to his friend, while seated in a
private room .of the Clinton .Hotel, "I've thought
of all that."

10     GEORGE MELVILLE.


12    G-EaoGE MELVILLE.

"The prudential calculations "-interrupted Tam.
"Come out exactly right-every figure is correct,"
said George.
"How with the 'proprieties,' George ?"
"Sublime ! In the first place, 'Old Sassy' will
have duty to perform," answered George.
"That will be proper," gravely remarked Tam.
"This duty will be accompanied with considerable
labor," continued George.-
"Proper again !" echoed Tam.    "Good for his
physical health."
"He will have excitement," continued George.
"Necessary !  absolutely  necessary !  It  will
straighten up his stooping frame. Excitement,
Mr. Melville, I consider to be eminently proper-
eminently! Landlord, replenish the glasses. Less
lemon this time. Only a small bit of the peel, if you
please."
I imagine Mr. Sassy will be obliged to think
somewhat," resumed George.
"Of course, proper. Habits of fixed attention in
business matters are highly important," said Tam.
".He will talk," said George.
"Proper !" echoed Tam.
"Possibly, as Mr. Slick, of Weathersfield, would
express it, he may 'holler' considerably," continued
George.
"Proper, again !" echoed Tam. "Cultivates his
voice free gratis. My Governor pays a couple of
hundred yearly to cultivate sister Molly's. Mr. Mel-
ville, the 'propriaties' are evidently based in wis-
dom."
"But the necessities, Tam, must rule. 'Old Sassy'
has proved that he can be unusually, unnecessarily,

GEORGE      MELVILLE.                 13
unmercifully, intentionally, and most inconsistently
sassy.  He had no business to dun you; therefore,
as necessity knows no law, he must take his lesson,"
said George, finishing his glass.
"The 'd/flculties' I believe, are all that nod
remain to consider," said Tam.
"Difficulties ! Ah, my dear friend, Tam, what
would mankind become by eschewing labor? 'Labor
conquers all things,' is a grand principle which
neither you nor I, in this crisis, dare disregard. Time
was when I, even I, would have paused before these
difficulties ; but now, with the noble Catiline, I ex-
claim:
'My sword's my own! Smile on, my lords,
I scorn to.count what feelings, withered hopes,
Bitter, burning wrongs, I have within my
Heart's hot cells shut up, to leave you
In your lazy dignities.'
Good night landlord."
With this the friends returned to the college.

" 'Alt
.' Y


Y4      GEORGE MELV ILLE,.G

Horses versus Thorn-Apple Tree Limbs.
Tam duties of a college life followed, as usual, after
the conversation detailed in the last chapter, until
Tuesday morning of the subsequent week. Bell at
three, A.M. Studious young gentlemen at that hour
arose. Here and there, from the windows of the va-
rious colleges, might be seen faint lights glimmering
through the unwashed windows. College students are
not all over sensitive about dirt. Especially the real
students. It would have been, however, almost a di-
rect violatioi of natural law, or, as the idea would be
scripturally and concisely expressed, almost "a mira-
cle," to discover a morning light in the room of Mr.
George Melville, or that of his boon companion and
chosen friend, Tam.
It is time for the reader to know more of Tam. Mr.
James H. Griswold was a retired merchant, residing
in the city of New York. His only son, Thomas F.
Griswold, had received the advantages of a three
years' preparatory course in that old and time-hon-
ored "Boarding School for Boys," which for many
years was known in New York City as "Tm Wxsu-
GToN IsTITUTE." At this institution, the highest
grades of scientific, intellectual, and scholastic train-
ing could be attained. It combined the advantages

of a first class boarding school with the healthy re-
straints which are so difficult of application in a col-
lege government. In a word, it was a model school
of the kind. Mr. Griswold had used every means
which lay in his power to give to his son Thomas, the
highest benefits of this institution. The teachers had
been diligent and faithful in the performance of their
duties, and his fond parent looked forward with an
earnest and trustful hope tliat his boy would be the
joy of his declining years ; that he would fill with
competence and intelligence some of the high offices
of trust and.power usually consequent upon a profes-
sional career.
Thomas, as the reader has already learned, was
now pursuing his collegiate course. George Melville
has found in him a congenial spirit. The characters
of the two, formed by the-early home and school asso-
ciation and employment ; or rather, want of employ-
ment; want of active labor; want of that hard work;
want of that knowledge of obedience and just appreci-
ation of cause and effect which labor, under a healthy
and proper control, seldom or never fails to bestow-
thus their thoughts, feelings, impulses, and general
characters had been moulded, in some respects, alike.
On the Tuesday morning referred to, the two
friends were quietly seated upon the front steps of
the "South College." Hamilton College is built
upon a very high hill, about three-quarters of a mile
from Clinton Village.. The distance up the hill, from
the valley below, to the College grounds, is about the
same. The College precincts inclose nearly twenty
acres of land. Three four-story stone buildings, each
containing two separate halls, and thirtyitwo suites
of rooms, form the College proper. Besides this a

GEORGE  MELVILLL+ . ,f:  15


16    GEORGE MELVILLE.

fine stone church edifice, used as' a chapel, labora-
tory, etc. The buildings stand in a row, from south
to north, in the following order : South College, Cha-
pel, Middle College, North College. Since the time
of this history, a convenient Observatory has been
erected. One of the most powerful telescopes in the
United States is to be placed in it. This description,
the reader will please bear closely in mind, as it will
be necessary to a full understanding of some inci-
dents which occupied the attention of Mr. George
Melville and his friend Thomas F. Griswold.
"Well, Tam, my cigar is about finished. Old
Sassy is decidedly behind time; it is now five minutes
to eight by my watch. There goes the bell for morn-
ing prayers, by Jove !"
"Yes, George; and, hurrah ! there comes" Sassy,'
as sure as sprinkles before a thunderstorm."
True-sighted this time, Tam, and no discount,, as
you say your governor expresses himself when !he
means to be distinctly intelligible. The thunderstorm
will come, but we must be sure and set the sprinkles
dropping, that the lightning may have a fair chance
to play. Wait a moment, until 'Sassy' makes for
the South College: He is now, I perceive, hitching
up his quadrupedem, like a faithful and. careful
jehu. Time will soon work changes with that ani-
mal."
"1We must not be seen here, George."
"Faithful monitor ! Thou art right. In the house
there is safety."
Quickly the two friends ran into the South Hall of
the South College. The candy peddler entered the
college yard and came trudging;up the avenue to the
South College, bearing two large tin cans hanging

GEORGE MELVILLE.               1 I7
from a neck-yoke, in the true style of a yankee-notion
foot peddler.
"Ah! Sassy," said Melville, stepping from his hid-
ing-place, "just arrived ?"
"Yes. Will you have some candy to-day, Mr.
Melville?  Got some very nice. The old woman
beat herself this time."
"Well; give us half-a-dozen sticks. By the way,
what's the trouble between you and Mr. Griswold?
He says you have treated him very ungentle-
manly."
"Mr. Melville, all I did was to ask him for -ten
dollars and twenty-two cents, which he owes me for
candy."
"Why do you not wait for your money until the
usual time ?"
"The reason is, they say Griswold is getting to be
wild, and that he don't pay. I used to think he was
a smart fellow, but sence I axed him for the bill I've
changed 'pinion."
" Well, Sassy, you must look out for him ; per-
haps he may play some of his smartness on
you."
"Let him try it once. I'm enoughh for him."
" Well, Sassy, keep an eye on him."
With this, the peddler entered the North fall of
the South College, and commenced'his usual round
of visits to the rooms. Finding, however, that all
were empty, he took. a seat in room number three;
and waited quietly for the release of "his customers."
"His customers " is an appellation quite appropriate,
for he had sold candy to the fathers 'of some of the
students then in the college.
" Come forth, Old Tam!    Sassy has departed.


18

GEORGE MELVILLE.

Thine hour of vengeance draweth nigh. Seest thou
yonder quadyupedern? Let us try his speed.
Mayhap his legs may show some wit,
Of flesh, 'tis clear, they've not a bit."
To gain the road consumed only a moment. Look-
ing carefully to see that they were unobserved, the
horse was quickly untied and headed for the South.
Applying the whip, Melville found he was an active
animal, although evidently half starved. He drove
the horse behind the rear of the Middle. College,
where they unhitched and unharnessed him. Tying
him carefully in a corner of a large wood-shed, our
two friends proceeded very quietly to place the buggy
in the same condition it enjoyed before it was origi-
nally put together.
"Tam, you've got the wrench, I hope. By Jove!
I've got iny hand all tar. Here, give us a lift-on this
nut. It starts hard. Won't it try the old sinner's
mechanical talents somewhat to put this go-cart
together again. Tam, this is my first lesson in real
labor. Don't the sweat pour, though!F There! now
for the rope. Two wheels at. a time. Tie it on tight.
Now, go up on the chapel roof, and let down the
string."-
Griswold did as requested. in a few moments
he appeared on the top of the building, and lowered
a light but strong cord. This, Melville tied to the
rope, by means of which, the whole buggy was drawn
p on to the chapel roof, and safely deposited in
the belfry.
"Ten minutes to nine, hey! Time enough left.
There go the juniors, though. Keep shady, Tam."
After waiting the ten minutes, all the classes had

/

GEORGE MELVILLE.

19

been dismissed, and most of the students had entered
their rooms for study.
"Now's our time, Tam. Here is the thorn-apple tree
limb, and a beauty it is./ Every point on it is sharper
than a needle-! What a splendid tail, though. Give
us the cord, Tam. There! I rather guess that horse's
tail, and that thorn-apple tree limb are united nolens
volens. Now give him his head, Tam."
"Hold ! George, let me take an observation, and
see if the coast is clear: George, Old Prex is coming
over to his room."
"Good, Tam! Let us see how much practical
piety he will exhibit towards a poor dumb beast."
Wjth the word, the horse was allowed his free-
dom. Our readers must imagine the effect of a
thorn-apple tree limb tied to the tail of a wide-awake
horse. At every jump he made, his tail whipped
the sharp thorns into his flesh, breaking many of them
off, and giving the poor animal terrible torment.
He was soon flying within precincts forbidden to all
of his kind, at the top of his speed. The students of
ancient lore, realized, if they never did until then,
the beauty of that celebrated line which occurs in
one of the books of the .nead, descriptive of the
galloping of horses over the plain:
Quadrupe |Idante pu J trem-soni I tu quatit ungula 1 campum." *
A hundred and fifty wild young men were soon
eagerly chasing after the maddened horse. The old
college walls echoed to such shouts of laughter as
had not been heard since th'eir"corner-stone was
laid.
"Run, Jim! run!"-c''Walker, head hitn! ha! ha!
* Read by the scanning.


20      GEORGE MELVILLE.

wasn't that a jump !"-"By Jove! he'll certainly
break his neck !"-" Get out of the way, Melville I"-
"President N       take care ! he must be wild !"-
"What a bound that was !"
Such were the shouts which were heard from, a
hundred voices, until the two friends spied Old Sassy
with his cans, quietly looking on, shouting, laughing;
and encouraging the wild students in their exciting
chase.
"KHa! ha !" said Old Sassy, "don't he jump!
Don't he go it strong !  hat's that on his tail?
Whose horse is he ?"
"Sassy, you appear to enjoy the tormenting of
that poor dumb beast amazingly," said Melville.
"I should laugh out of the other side of my cheek,
if I were in your situation."
"Why, Mr. Melville? ha! ha ! See him shake
his head. How he froths at the ziouth! Why so,
Mr. Melville ?"
"Simply, Sassy, because in my opinion that horse
belongs to you."
"No! does it ?" said he, looking very intensely at
the infuriated animal, and turning pale. "Yes! it
is my jack! Whoa! whoa! Catch him! catch him!"
he now shouted  ih9top of his voice. "Catch my
jackt"
Then dropping both of the candy cans, yoke and
a~Iupon the groutid, he was soon the most eager
engaged in the chase.
vik quiet picked up the cans; and, every-
body bengso'imnsely occupied with the horse,
he succeeded in conveyig them into the South Hall
ofothe Middle College, when  the fourth story, his
;room was situated. He then'went down among the

.students, and picking out about 'twenty of ,his par-
ticular friends, sent them one by one to his cham-
bers. In ten minutes the cans were emptied of their
luscious contents, and the facts about the horse were
duly promulgated. Melville's friends immediately
voted the whole affair to be a consistent and emi-
nently proper; judgment upon the audacious Sassy.
(Not one among them, by the way, who did not fear
the presentation of an act daily.) In the meantime,
the candy peddler had caught his horse, and brought
him exactly beneath Melville's window, where he
commenced shaking his fist at, the whole body of
students, and vociferating terrible vengeance upon
the perpetrators of the dastardly act.
" Griswold," said Melville,  I am astonished to
hear such foul language uttered right in the pre-
sence of our well-beloved, the faithful President of
this time-honored institution of learning. Desend,
most worthy friend, and clear the stone steps below my
hall window of all that wear the shape of manhood!"
Griswold, comprehending Melville's object, ran
down stairs, and soon had the steps clear. One of
the stIdents, at Melville's request, then dropped the
cans from the window on to the steps. Such a pro-
cecure would frighten a sane horse.   It is not
strange, considering the wild condition which Sassy's
animal ad involuntarily assumed, that he imme-
diately concluded the noise was a signal for him to
run again. Such, indeed, I am sorry the reader must
learn, was the result ; and, it was are than an hour
before he could again be secured. But the poor
peddler had not learned the half of his woes. His
wagon-but we must commence a new chapter for
the wagon.

GEORGE MELVILLE.


GEORGE MELVILLE.    23

29      GEORGE TMiVILLE.

"Wait for the wagon."
WHERE'S my' wagon? Has any one seen my har-
ness?" What have they done with the buggy ?"
"Come, Tam, I perceive the quadrupedem is pro-
perly subdied. It is time for the second step in our
arduous undertaking."
It was now nearly twelve o'clock, meridian. The
two friends, having carefully examined the course
and finding everything clear, went to the Chapel.
In a few minutes the bell-ringer sounded the bell, an-
nouncing to the hungry students that the sun had
arrived at the zenith. As soon as this duty was per-
formed, the faithful monitor of the hour started to
appease his hunger.
"Well, George, F-x has locked his door what
shall be done now?"
"F -x has dared to mar our plan, and so we, of
necessity, must mar his door. This is the only ac-
cess to our wagon."
In a few moments the door was broken in. The
two went up to the belfry, and with a rope fastened
the bell-clapper~o a part of the wagon. Of course,
when the bell-ringer should strike the hour for the
afternoon recitation, which was four o'clock, the bell
would not sound, and the wagon would be disco-
vered. .But long ere that, Melville well knew, the

whole energies of the College Faculty would be
aroused in search after the wagon; for, at least, they
would fear they might become liable for its loss. The
announcement, therefore, of its discovery would bring
all who were engaged in the search to the Chapel.
This would be likely to 'get up considerable excite-
ment. There would occur, necessarily, some delay in
ringing the bell; all of which led the two friends to
the conclusion that perhaps the students, with a very
little help from them, might be collected in front of
the chapel; in which case, the whole would result in
the different professors dismissing their classes for the
day.
Such a consummation would make the whole affair
popular, even with the more sober-minded students,
and tend to allay any serious consequences to them-
selves in case of exposure. The finale was even bet-
ter than they had planned. The peddler cried so
piteously about the loss of his wagon, harness, and
candy ; the bruising of his cans and injury to his
horse, that the Faculty held a special meeting, and
sent a committee to have the students requested to
find the wagon. Of course, Griswold and Melville
were very ardent in their efforts to discover it.
When the hour of four arrived, no one thought -of
recitation. The wagon was yet undiscovered. A few
minutes after the hour for recitation had passed, Mel-
ille, now all heated with his earnest endeavors, to
discover the hidden property, suggested to the Presi-
dent that every nook and corner of the- college had
been visited by him except the belfry; atthe same.
time handing him a small piece of.the harness, which
he discovered had been dropped by himself when the
wagon was pulled up upon the roof.

r    ,       _ "4


24~~  GEO~t~GR MELVI L, E                            EOG     EVIL.2

"h a  ," sid  e  tthe President, I found
cose bhe side of thohapelpintheigrassand he
caa dy pederays it belongs this harness.
" ill  lease to ask  .Fextoallow yu to
othroughhshoom" said thePresident.
o-J}trtM r F  w as  not to  be  foun4
I Wht !"said th8e  ent "is 'nt ,F-  to
bnd "
o}sir," echoed half-a-dozenho, by ths time,
h   visitedhe belfry   " the do&amp; of his room is
broken in."
The wagonnow, had aso been discovered. But
the'Faculty and students.ere illedith aniety at
themost unaccountable disappearance thehell-
ringer. He had been appointed to theposition,
therebeing a small sinecure connected with iton
aount offhis-acknowledged worth.and correct mo-
rals. Therhesident expressedgeaears lest some
violeiie had been done him, when, suddenly, fifty
oices cried out:
There he comes! Here comes F--x !Here
comes the bell-ringer!"
And sure enough, Mr. F-x now appeared upon
the scene.ie couldgive no explanation about the
door or the wagon    To exonerate himself from
bameYor his absence, he produced the following
u"[AMoLTQ O rQLL
,:Deer ar-I am greatly in need of certain papers in the hands of'
n-rt he Ct cf Utica.i al you pleae favor
me yoingnto Cinton, hiring a=horse  g4d bgyand:p rceedng
forth a't MUica. Youhav0apgentimeto return 1fortafter
,noreit ti.r Inelose please find a three dollar (3)hill foryour
expeses . ', _''Yours very truly~

The President read the note, and immediately said
to Mr. F-x:
" It is all satisfactorily explained; but you should
have made more haste."
"I found Mr. S     r without the papers, and at
his suggestion made several calls to find them, inas-
much   as Professor M       was so anxious for
them," said Mr. F-x.
"Me !" said the professor in question. "Papers!
I anxious ! What do you mean, Mr. F-x ?"
The stare which the learned professor gave on
reading the note, was.worth an evening at Burton's
to have witnessed.
"That note, Mr. F-x, is a forgery ! a forgery!
Have you-no, I cannot believe you have been
guilty of such subterfuge. It is evidently a part of
this day's extraordinary proceedings."
We may as well -here give the explanation of the
note.
Melville had foreseen the necessity of sending
Mr. F-x away for the afternoon, as the broken
door would be liable to bring on the finale too soon.
He had, therefore, forged the'note in the handwriting
of the professor, inclosing therein the three dollars.
Of course Mr. F-x, who was half a mile from,
college at the time he received the note, did not
return to his room, and the fact that the note con-
tained a three dollar bill, satisfied him the request
was bonaftde.
About a week after the occurrence, Melville got
the candy peddler into his room, and having nego-
tiated for his silence, paid him his full bill for dam-
ages, also informing him that the next time he
cautioned him to beware of Mr. Griswold's smartness,
2

t  ,
_     t   t ~
'   J  .
' "  .

GEORGE MELVILLE.-

25


6         O      M  VILLE.      GEORGE MEL

better to heed his advice; The result of the whole
was, that Griswold and Sassy became excellent
friends--at least Sassy never asked Griswold for
another bill.
This is but a sample of the occupation in which
te two friends were continually employed. During
e first few terms of their collegiate course, their
boarding-school fitting enabled them to keep up a
fair character as students; but, with the second year,
their standing gradugllflowered. As juniors, they
were hardly able to maintain a position in their class.
They were simply tolerated for their money.

TVb
The Boyhood  Days of George Melville.
GEORGE MELVILLE, in the fall of 18--., commenced
his undergraduate course at Hamilton College. He
was received by the Board of Examiners with a
well disguised pride. They confidently predicted for
the young student a successful career, which would
do honor, to themselves, their institution of lear ing,
as well to his parents an4 large circle of friends.
Master George, as the schoolboy, was about equal
to boys in general. He seemed to love his books;
so his instructors, during his preparatory course, had
confidently insisted. His share of the "rewards of
merit," certificates of "good behavior " and sundry
little bound volumes, with "Presented to George
Melville, as a ,reward of industry," written on the fly.
leaf in a most careful and scholastically precise chi-
rography, had been quite extensive.
George must not go at a discount, if, at this period
of his life, he imagined himself to be indoctrinated
with the love of books and a high sense of his own
importance. The praises of unwise teachers had
been so freely lavished, that hyper-self-confidence
had come to him legitimately, ,being the result of
folly's culture, not a natural or indigenous plant.
He had become ambitious for praise' and maste d

iFEORG}N MTLVILLE.        27


28     GEORGE MELVILLE,

all of his tasks at school for the sake of triumph.
The idea of approaching study for the sake of honor-
ing the science or art, as a child of science or art,
had never been the groundwork upon which the
teachers, in his preparatory course, had built his
a1,its of thought.
If he mastered a page. of the Anabasis, Iliad or
Prometheus, of Sallust, Cicero, Livy or Virgil, if he
solved a mathematical problem, or toiled over chemi-
cal analysis, it was done solely for the purpose of
carrying away the prizes from his schoolmates.
Parents'teachers and friends had alike mistaken the
natural desires of his mind. He was a practical boy.
Labor-hard work in some of the honorable trades,
was the ship which would have borne him'safely and
proudly over the sea of life; but he was not to be
allowed to tread her deck'
"Oh ! indeed no ! my boy," said his fond mother,
"must never' soil his hands with menial employment,
or associate with the vulgar, toil-worn mechanic."
And the kind, but mistaken woman wiped h~r deli-
cate forehead with a finely-wrought cambric hand-
kerchief.
"Not he 1" echoed the wealthy father. "He shall
write his name a statesman. No pent-up workshop,
with its hours of sweat-producing toil, shall become
to him a care ; no grim-visaged, hard-fisted, work-
soiled artisan shall ever claim  my George as a
fellow-craftsman. My boy a mechanic ! the boy
who has carried off all the prizes at every school
he has attended from infancy ! And now a matricu-
latgd student in one of the highest institutions of
learning in the land."
The excited old gentleman had no idea how often

GEORGE MELVILLE..
these prizes had been skillfully-prepared instruments
of flattery gotten up by wide-awake (we should say
depraved) teachers, to whom his name,;influence,
patronage and good will were vital.
"Please. the child for ' the parent's. friendship."
Such is the motto which underlies the success of
thousands who become teachers of youth under
American institutions.
Show- the pupil the importance and value of the
knowledge to be taught, and then please him by the
reward of conscious success.
Such is the motto we present as an amendment.
The teacher who succeeds in gaining the friendship
of a pupil under it, will find he possesses a friend for
life.
May the time come when, at least in our public
schools, teachers can hold the tenure of their salaries
subject to anything, any power and anybody but-the
wealthy nabob of the ward, village, precinct, town or
other school district!


80      GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE.    31

The Excursion Party for Niagara-Aster House-James Mordaunt-
The Plot:
OrE year, subsequent to the events already- de-
tailed, passed rapidly away. George Melville, who
was now approaching the close of his junior colle-
giate yearfound that health began to give way
before the serious attacks of dissipation. He had
gradually yielded to the luring pleasures which are
freely spread before young men of his class, until
the naturally strong constitution, with which he had
been blessed, 'was broken. His parents attributed
his pale countenance and lifeless eye to a severe
application to study. As vacation was near at hand,
Mr   elville counselled a long journey, by easy dis-
tances, on horseback. To this end, he purchased for
his son a fine saddle horse, and sent it to Clinton.
George, however, could not think of the proposal
unless his boon companion and friend, Thomas Gras-
woW, accompanied him. This difficulty was finally
overcome, and the two friends, on the 29th of July,
left Clinton, most splendidly mounted, determined to
see as much of the great State of New York as could
be travelled over, in this knight-errant style,'during a
three months' vacation. Their route nearly enclosed
the western part of the Empire State. We will leave

the two friends to pursue their way in search of stir-
ring events and the bloom of health to introduce the
reader to other scenes.
*    *    *   -*    *   -*    *
"Ring the bell, Clara! I shall never succeed in
getting Carlo to obey orders. Carlo, lie down! lie
down ! down, Carlo! that's a good fellow !"
It was of no avail. Carlo insisted upon having his
curiosity gratified in the examination of several new
dresses which had just been sent from Stewart's.
He already had torn a piece out of one, and just as
he caught a second in his teeth, Bell Mortimer
requested her cousin Clara Edgemonte to ring for the
servant.
Carlo seemed to understand the meaning of the
bell-ringing, for he immediately desisted, and very
respectfully approached his beautiful mistress, from
whose face all frowns on account of her pet Carlo
immediately disappeared.; and, while she kindly
turned to acknowledge the instinctive contrition of
Carlo, gracefully reaching forward her ha  aress
him, and casting her eyes                    c-
tion of a guileless hea                     in
truth not only lovely,       tiful. Ka  ae had
lavished rich endowments upon her person. Her form
was the perfection of womanly grace and elegance.
The snowy garniture of her arm, tinctured here and
there with the rosy blushes of youth and health, was,
if we may be allowed the appellation, "eerless. Her
dark, full eye, crested with exquisitely delicate brows,
fell upon the beholder instantly to stir the soul and
awaken thoughts of that wisdom which had deigned
to create for this earth so much loveliness. Bell Mor-
timer was truly too beautiful for aerth. lihe seemed

+


GE.ORGE MELVILLE.   3

32     GEORGE- MELVILLE.

not one who could stem the torrents of  trial and
affliction; who. could proudly rise superior to taunt
and bitter woe, and illustrate the undying, unyield-
ing, persevering courage of a true woman. She
seemed rather made for Heaven, to add a joy among
the angels. Oh! well for Bell Mortimer was it, that
Heaven has enclosed the future within an impenetra-
ble tomb-has placed before its entrance a veil
which no mortal may remove, which time only is
permitted to lift. But we must not anticipate.
The dresses were duly examined; the pros and
cons duly weighed; the necessities for their advan-
tageous application duly illustrated.
" I must say, Clara, that ' tissue' is perfectly
lovely. It will become. you even better than the
India silk' you wore at Mrs. Glover's. What do
you think of this 'peach-blossom silk' for me ?"
Let me examine it. 'Hold it up more to the
light. There-so ! It is really just the thing for
your complexion, Bell. Dark hair and dark eyes,
.:e, will grow irresistible under the influ-
e1yally think the manufacturer
in his mind when he
design Yt
"Well, Clara, if  u ik so, I vote at once in
favor of adding it to my wardrobe. But I have got
two dressesthe start of you'on the catalogue. I am
determined one of those ',organdies' shall become
your 'personal property,' as that young sprig of the
bar expressed it last night.".
y the way, Bell, now that you have referred to
James Mordaunt, did you notice how skillfully he
wins one over t] his way of thinking, how  ready
he is.with hisflftery, and how easily he assumes

phases of character. I prophesy he will become
either a great man or a great rogue. I don't like his
eye ; but suppose I am doing violence to your feel-
ings, .as your father has introduced him into our
circle, and regards him, evidently, with great friend-
ship and esteem."
" Oh, Clara, do not mind Mr. Mordaunt; -'he will
never be anything to me, so please, ma chiere amie,
attend to this important business. You know we
start for Niagara next week, and all these dresses
must be fitted and finished."
Thus the young ladies ran on until the loud-peal-
ing gong of that time-honored hotel, the Astor, an-
nounced their dining hour.
One week from that day a party of eight ladies
and gentlemen occupied four seats in the Hudson
River morning train for Albany. It consisted of
Hon. 13. F. Mortimer, Mr. H. B. Edgemonte, Madams
Mortimer and Edgemonte, Bell 'Mortimer Clara
Edgemonte, James Mordaunt, Esq,. and Frederiek
Mortimer, Bell's brother.
"Bell," said Mr. Edgemonte, "this early rising
seems to paint your face upbly"
" Thank you, Uncle Harwfor the compliment ;
but I know very well allab o titthe partiality 'of your
eyesight. I am disposed to credit you for sincerity,
but if nothing else betrayed my ever kind uncle's
partiality, those beautiful bouquets which, so very
mysteriously, were spirited into Clara's and my cham
ber last night, would become sad tell-tales against
yQ i. There now, Clara, see Uncles Harry's confnsion;
I tol:dyou where the bouquets came from,. You
would have it that either Fred or Mr. Mirdaiint was
the  pirit."            2*
2*  M0 NP


GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE.    35

There is generally but little pleasure to be derived
from a ride in the swift-winged steam car. Modes
of travelling, so far as viewing scenery is in question,
obey that general law of mechanics, "what is gained
in speed is lost in power," and vice versa.   There is
nothing which will take the place of a private car-
riage, if the traveller desires to look upon the face
of the .country. But the expansion of empire has
brought into active usefulness so many new princi-
ples, the genius of man has laid open so many hidden
paths of invention and discovery, that beauties of
scenery are now left for the poet, the painter, the
scholar, the recluse.  He who would grasp the~ieins
of power; who would be great in theforum; who
would spread the seas with hir merchant fleet; or,
who would control the little cotrie around him, of
iechanical, professional, or mercantile mind ; or of
okeor all, must be great in practical wisdom.; ready,
with practical illustration.   Like a Napoleon, he
must grasp the detail, ever remembering that "drops
make an ocean."    This is an age when man
" Ina moment speaks to man, though empires intervene,-
And makes tie sun portray himself, engraves with morning sheen;
Constructs the giant eye, whiph glares on suns before unknown ;
The glass which scans the atom systems, living in his own-
*   *           *       *       *       *
Through rocks, o'er hills and plains, he goes, upon the car enshrined,
Which mocks the fleetness of the deer and leaves the wind be-
hind."
We shall not attempt to describe the beauties of
the lovely Hudson. The little party of friends, for
whom we desire to bespeak an interest from our
readers, were familiar with all the magnificent views
which a day-boat trip from    New York to Albany

never fails to present. Our readers will, therefore,
please go contrary to the advice contained in Mr.
Mordaunt's suggestion, delivered the evening previous
at one .of ,the private parlors of the Astor, if they
would behold the most lovely river views in the State
of New York.
"Miss Mortimer," said Mr. Mordaunt, "our party
are all well posted in Hudson River scenery; I vote,
therefore, for a quick trip and plenty of leisure at the
Delevan. Cars for me!
" Agreed-! agreed !" said one and all.
While the party pursue their journey, will the
reader bear with us a moment, as we introduce to his
more intimate acquaintance James Mordaunt, Esq.,
who, performs a most important part in this
history.
James Mordaunt was now twenty-five years of age.
His parents separated from each other when he swa
but an infant. Soon after the separation, causegwny
a want of kindness to Mrs. Mordaiint on his fatiers
part, James's mother was carried to her grave  She
was a woman of the highest culture, the keenest
sense of motherly affection, a consistent Christian,
and generally,' wise in her plans and judgments.
Had she been spared to rear her son under her own
light and example, the talents with which nature had
most lavishly endowed him, would scarcely have
failed to present society with an upright, useful, and
safe counsel for the widow and fatherless, .fhe orphan
and unfortunate, in the noble profession which now
he was destined to dishonor.- His mother's death
seemed to be one of those provideuces which lnatt's
judgment would have pronounced unnatura and
unwise, were it not that the ways ofthat Providence,


GEORGE MELVILLE.

though "past finding out," are the direction of inft-
nite wisdom.
James was reared by an aunt, the wife of his
mother's brother. She was a brilliant, energetic,
self-denying, ambitious, but unscrupulous woman.
Under the semblance of Christian graces and virtues,
she possessed some dangerous characteristics of tem-
per and \ thought.  "Means to the end, right or
wrong !" "Success covers all the sin !" These old
sayings express her character better than any. ex-
tended description. Added to this, she was quick to
perceive, prompt in her plans, and swift to execute.
Her nephew learned but too well the lessons which
the example of his aunt constantly presented. He
learned also to worship her as a being placed far
above the ordinary of her race. Her will, to him,
was law; the gratification of her slightest wish, his
delight.
James had received a liberal education. He gra-
duated at Columbia College, New York, with the
highest honors in the gift of his classmates and
instructors.  His legal studies had been .mastered
with equal success, and he was now a junior part-
ner in one of -the most reliable law-firms in the
metropoliA of Amerida. Already his name began to
be sounded upon the lips of the great merchants,
brokers, ship-masters, and bankers, who rule the
winds; and waves of the commerce, progress, and
-renown of the American name.
Mrs. Tryon, James's aunt and second mother, was
awidow. She maintained a princely establishment
inFifth Avenue. Her patronage was certain success
to any ambitious and fairly skilled youth. She could
open the gates to the magic circle, of High Life in

New York. "He visits at Mrs. Tryon's," settled the
question, "'Shall Mr.  be invited $" in the affirm-
ative for many a youthful aspirant after the pleasures
and influence of fashionable life. A short conver-
sation held between Mrs. Tryon and her nephew will
possess the reader of some facts which are necessary
links in this story.
" James, do you know how Hon. B. F. Mortimer
stands in regard to property ?"
"Oh, yes! His fortune is ample. Our firm hold
some of his assets here in New York, as agents,
which yield him a clear rental of $5,000 per annum.
Besides this, he owns. a country residence on the
banks of the Cayuga Lake, in the western part of the
State, attached to whih are three hundred acres of
splendid farming lands."
"Well, do you know, I have found out that he has
an only daughter, and but one son. The daughter is
eighteen years of age; pretty, dark hair, dark eyes,
unexceptionable complexion, form, etc., and withal I
am informed she has some knowledge of the world;
graceful, easy, witty.., A gentleman friend tells me
she is really brilliant. Now, James, I want to see
her, and if--well, you know it is about time
you began to. think of a wife. I have nearly con-
cluded that she will do. But I must see her first."
"Then you shall have your wish. The whole fam
.ily, I learned from my senior partner yesterday, will
be in town next week, en route for Washington. - r.
Mortimer is member for his congressional district.
An invitation from you through my partner will be
just d propose, for Mr. MortiLner must spend a few,
days here on business matters. Wait until they are
quietly domesticated at the Astor, and with your-head

31

26 ,

GEORGE M-ELVILLE.


38          G EO RG-E ME L VI'L LE .
and my hand, .the desired object can be accom-
plished."
This conversation occurred about six months prior .
to the time which saw the party already described as
on their way for Niagara. Of course Mrs. Tryon ac-
complished her design. Bell Mortimer proved to be
even more satisfactory to the ambitious aunt than
imagination, upon chance description, had painted.
She was perfectly captivated by the gentle girl.
*      *      *      *      *      ,
" Yes, James," said she to her nephew, " now is
your time or never. Go with the party to Niagara.;
make a visit at her father's home ; and, before you
return, have matters all arranged if possible. With
the good will of the father, the love of the mother,
and your own talents, of which I must be allowed the
expression, I am more than. proud--there, there !
don't be frightened ; you have heard nothing but
truth : you must be a weak one if you fail with the
daughter."
" True, but I do not love her. She is attractive
and "
" Pshaw ! My wise sir, marriage is a game-love
is but an empty title. I married for place, money,
and power. You had better marry for love, and live
on it. Don't you think it would be better for us both
had I, a little sentimental in my youth, taken up with
some poor love of a mania What a nice time it would
be were I now living with 'you in a quiet hovel-my
poor husband gone-and you teaching, school, and
hoarding round, or selling lace, bodkins, hair-pins,
and calicoes, or patiently adding mortar and a brick,
mortar and a brick, mortar and a brick, until the sum
total of mortar and bricks gave you fourteen York

GE O RGE M E LVILLE. .9
shillings per diem, as you lawyers say, upon Which to
support your lone aunt. How the neighbors in the
parish would laud the dutiful nephew who devoted
all his earnings to support his poor, heart-broken
widowed mother's sister."
The expression of face sand action, gesture, etc.,
with which Mrs. Tryon accompanied this argument,
caused her nephew to burst into an almost uncontroll-
able fit of laughter.
"Good, good! What an advocate of woman's
rights you would make ! My dearest mother, I am
convinced. Your words shallbe commands. illade-
moiselle Bell Mortimer shall be my aunt's niece if the
battle is to the 'vigilant, the active, tlie brave,' ha,.
ha, ha!1 Mrs. James Mordaunt ! Capital!I"
" Your trunks will be ready in time for the morn-
ing train. I shall scarcely see you off ; the hour is too
early for me ; so be a good boy, and write how.
events progress."


f   '    L\
..t
'  "  f  .jt  " a . ,Y Yr
l              ,
.

GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE.

-
Aurora--Cayuga Lake--The Pic-nic.

"BAGGAGE for the steamboat, Mr. Mortimer."
"Yes,-captain. Mere are my checks. How are
they all at Aurora ?"                         -
"Well, sir. Your place is looking fmely. Jim-
my is a faithful and active hand.  Everything is
trim. Won't the people be glad to see you! I did
not expect you until next week; but last evening's pa-
pers said you were to leave the Astor en route for
Niagara, with a large party of friends. I knew you
would not pass Aurora. But are. you really going.
West "
"Yes, captain. Believe the girls have planned a
trip to the Falls."
The party we left en route up the noble Hudson,
were now passengers on board a little steamer which
plies on that beautiful inland sheet of water known, in
song and descriptive writings of travellers, as Cayuga
Lake. Aurora is about twenty miles up the lake,
and is justly called the paradise of New York. For
beauty of scenery no place in the State, we venture
to assert, can surpass it. The residences of the in-
habitants are mostly built on a scale of princely mag-
nificence, blended with true taste and refinement.

A couple of hours afterwards, Mrs. Mortimer was
acting the part of hostess to her friends, while her
daughter Bell, with the eager longing.. and ardent
temperament of a youthful heart, went bounding from
room to room, giving vent to the pent'up love for her
beautiful home, which had been accumulating during
a six months' absence. This was her cousin Clara's
first visit to Aurora. Of course there was enough to
occupy their attention. With two young gentlemen,
one to be introduced to her circle of acquaintances
and also one beautiful cousin such as Clara Edge-
monte really was, for, though of a different style,
Clara's beauty almost rivalled that of her cousin
Bell. Bell, however, was not the one to rise upon
the misfortunes of others. Jealousy was a stranger
to her heart;- consequently, she could and did love her
cousin Clara with the true and earnest affection of
her nature. But, added to all this, Mr. and Mrs. Edge-
- monte were not least thought of in Bell's plans and
projects for the week.
"To-morrow, at five o'clock precisely, wind and
weather permitting, Messrs. Fred. Mortimer and
James Mordaunt are politely requested to prepare
for a cruise 'on the bosom of the Cayuga," said Bell,
-  putting on the look and action of a queen.
" We are her majesty's most humble servants," re-
sponded Fred. "The winds and waves of old Cayu-
ga will indeed be honored by so much loveliness re-
clining upon her breast. The hour will be propitious,
if the officers and crew of our Fairy Queen's yacht
are allowed the privilege of obeying the song in the
old primer-

' Early to bed and early to rise;'

41

,
"
_;
,,


4  0kR LEGEOIE lELVILLE.  43

to that end, Mr. Mordaunt, shall we bid the ladies
good night ?"
"Not until I have obtained from them," replied
Mr. Mordaunt, "that promised duet. I call for the
music first."
'I suppose it is my duty to set an example of obe-
dience if I expect obedience' in return," said Bell.
"Come, fair coz--ah ! thank you, Fred--that piano
as gracefully-opened. Clara, dear, you must preside
at the instrument. We will give you, Mr. Mordaunt,
but one piece, and that shall send you to the arms of
gentle slumber."
The two cousins then sang together that exquisite-
ly beautiful duet commencing.--
"Gently, gently, sighs the breeze,
Like a whisper through the trees--
Like a voice of seraph bright,
Singing to the world, 'Good night."
Bell, having prepared everything for the morning's
pleasure, retired to ier room, in company with her-
cousin Clara. She was yet entirely unsuspicious of'
the sentiments which were moulding the conduct of
Mr. Mordaunt. Her thoughts of him and acts for his
pleasure.flowed wholly from a desire to please her
father'&amp;friend and guest. Clara, however, was not
so blinded. She, more alive to the workings of Mor-
daunt's countenance, had read his inmost thoughts, and
correctly. She was well acquainted with Mrs. Tryon.,
S   knew also how devotedly attached Mordaunt was
to his aunt. She had witnessed Mrs. Tryon's efforts
to win the favor and friendship of the Mortimers dur-
ing their visit at New York, six months before. She
knew also Mordaunt's base"heart ; but we anticipate.

Oh, how the poor girl longed to pour forth her inmost
soul into the ear of her loved cousin; but she dare
not! She was restrained by the thought, perhaps
Bell will regard my tale as a base fabrication; per
haps she will think I love Mordaunt. No, I had bet-
ter not. Oh, if I were only certain! How little was
she aware how much this erroneous judgment was to
cost her cousin .Bell! Had she but spoken that
night, Bell would have postponed indefinitely all sails,
rides, visits, etc., and allowed Mr. Mordaunt to find
his pleasure in the society of the gentlemen and elder
ladies.
"GTo-morrow," thought Clara, " I will tell her all.
Good night ! dear Bell, good night !" and gently kiss-
ing each other, they were soon wandering in the pleat
sant grottoes and fairy scenes of happy dream-land.
" Girls ahoy ! arouse thee from  thy slumbers,
gentle fairies,! The day is just beginning. My fair-
haired cousin Clara will, I fear, disavow all connec-
tion with the times and customs of this country life-
five strokes the faithful clock has sounded, and still
she dreams. Bell, arouse thee I AhI what's that
' Gently, gently tapping fronw a chamber door,' and
a soft, sweet accent says, ' rWe're coming soon, dear
Fred.' Well, all is right ! Fair ladies, when-fairly
awake, unfairly take our senses captive; but all those
who are worth a white moss-rose bud, know how
to give a hungry man his daily fare, and thus balance
the account, making it unfair to complain ofthem."
Thus soliloquized Fred, as he returned to his room
"Yes, yes, boy! that's fair in the main.Mn
pays the fare and the women prepare the fare. But
what has roused you at this hour ?"
"Bell's orders, Uncle Harry. The Ensenore' is

G:OI M1LVILL1J.


- GEORGE MELVILLE.

to skim the waves this morning. We, that is the young
people, are to breakfast ab ut six'miles up the lake."
"Well, well, man! takegood care of the freight.
I feel considerable interest in two consignments you
will have on board. The breeze is somewhat fresh,
but I believe it is safe;" and Uncle Harry shuffled
back into his room with his boots in hand.
The party, consisting ofBell, Clara, Mr. Mordaunt,
and Frederick, were.soon collected on the beach
where Frederick had already prepared the graceful
little yacht, Ensenore, belonging to his father. The
seats' had been duly dried of the night dew; the
mast had been stepped, and the sails were all in trim
order, ready to be set. ..Bell's .baskets and bundles,
of course, were not forgotten. In a few moments the
party were gliding swiftly up the lake, under the im-
pulse of a strong and steady northwest breeze.
"We shall, have to beat back if this wind con-
tinues," said Fred, who held the tiller.
" No croaking, sir," said Bell. "This is the hour
for fancy, eloquence, wit, sentiment "
'5 And song-if you will allow me to ask the favor,
Miss Mortimer," .said Mordaunt.  " We separated
amid strains sweetly sounding ; what so dpropos as
their echo this morning g":
"well, Fred, thou manly Palinurus," replied Bell,
" begin the strain?' -
Fred obeyed, giving the following song of old
ocean,:

Hot THE DEEP!1

"no! the deep ! the deep ! with its waves to leap,
As they haste for the land afar ;
would rather sail to-the notes of the gale,.
Than gather the spoils of war.

44

.,
a           a
f
:r
, -
z
,
1             ! w
i
At
t
3
4
r p,
i
}
F
_
.
1
IIYY ''aF'Q a
'
t
ski
r;
t

The storm from the clouds seems to kiss the shrouds,
Or rests, when the winds court sleep;
As- a man that dies, but lies down to rise,
Let my home be the heaving deep !
Ho!.the "deep! the deep! with its waves to leap,
As the king of.the gale draws nigh;
For I love to play with the storms, as they pay
Their tribute to Him on high.
Oh ! give me a grave 'neath the dark blue.wave,
Where winds; with their wail, e'er sweep,
And loudly say, as they shout for aye,
"Here he lies 'neath the heaving deep!'"
Ho! the deepY! the deep ! with its waves to leap,
As they dash near the home of yore ;
For a father's care and a fond mother's prayer.
Come forth from the distant shore.
The storm and its strife, like the toils of life,
Make hearts, that are hold, Oft weep;
Yet give me the wave, and its King to save
The redeemed of the heaving deep."*
." Capital," said Mordaunt, "and well executed.
The sentiment chimes with the hour and the occasion.
Is not the wind freshening somewhat ?"
"Yes, and I am     of the opinion it is going to blow
a  gale,"   replied   Frederick.    "I   have    anxiously
watched the north for some time. -Already Ihave
had to bring her head into the wind several times, to
let the squalls pass by, so as not to disturb you by
careening the boat.      Alone, I should not mind         a
blow; but, with my present freight I would rather
avoid it."
So saying, he turned the yacht's head towards the
eastern shore.'~ The whole party landed saf y about
* A. N. L., Jr.

45

GEORGE MELVILLE.

1         '


46     GEORGE' MELVILLE.

two miles short of their intended triy, and just in
time ; for the breeze freshened so rapidly, a circum-
stance which often happens upon the inland lakes of
central and western New York, that there was now
considerable danger in remaining on the water.
"-Here is the breakfast-room," said Bell. "Gentle-
men, you can build a fire as soon as your unaccus-
tomed hands can accomplish it. There is a good
place by.that heap of stones."
In a short time, Bell, with Clara's assistance,
showing that their home education had not been
neglected, had an inviting breakfast prepared, with
all the appurtenances of hot coffee, and a broiled
beefsteak.
"Really, young ladies, your culinary ability is
profound," said Mr. Mordaunt. "This is enjoying
what our, ancestors, Adam  and Eve, might have
envied.
"You are complimentary, certainly," said Clara;
"but the praise belongs exclusively to my cousin
Bell. Hers is the magic touch which has so quickly
spread this table for you."
Table, Clara !" said Fred, "I'd like to see even
a mouse creep under it. There is just room for a
well-bred grasshopper to crawl between the table-
cloth and that part of his natural domain which the
spread now usurps; and, when under it, I am sure
he would be in danger of a crushing, the way these
plates seem  to fly. Here, Mordaunt, take some
more of this steak. One more -cup of that spicy
aroma for me, Miss Bell, if you please."
How you do eat, Fred!1 It is well I have a sup-
ply for six," said Bell.
"I require extra for being pilot. -Glad to hear of

the extra supply, too ! Keep on talking ; if you have
anything 'as. agreeable as your last remark. Here,
Clara !. Mr. Mordaunt, will you please pass Miss
Clara's plate, I see she has emptied it. There is
more than one hungry, I perceive."
"No, no! replied his cousin, I've breakfasted.
No more for me."
"So say I," said Mordaint.
"And I," chimed in Fred, dwelling upon the
pronoun, and looking around upon the viands as if
to be certain he had really finished.
The things were soon removed, and repacked ;
dishes duly cleaned, etc., when, as the wind had not
abated, Motldamt, approaching Miss Mortimer, of-
fered his arm, proposing a stroll.
She quietly accepted it, and looking upon Clara
with an affectionate smile, threw her a bow, as much
as to say, "take care of Fred"
Clara had determined to prevent any private inter-
view between Mordaunt and her cousin, at all
hazards. But, again her courage failed her. True,
she might tell Fred! but then, he too, perhaps,
would think her selfish. Again, she failed of her
duty. 'Fred, .naturally desirous not to interfere
with his sister, resisted all of Clara's hints to follow
in her footsteps, and took an opposite direction.
When Mordaunt _had wandered from the scene
of their breakfasting about half a mile; he came:to a
beautiful ravine, through which a wild and: sparkling
brooklet went leaping from rock to rock, and forming
a thousand tiny falls. Here, under the deep shade
of a forest tree, he prepared a seat for his companion.
After remarking upon the wild beauty of their
retreat, he gradually, but most skillfully, turned the

/

GEORGE MEL4ILLE.     47


GEORGE MELVILLE,

conversation, from-the subjects which thetime and
place naturally suggested to mere acquaintances, and
spoke of friendship. Bell, ere she was aware,uncon-
8ciOusly listened, her whole soul enchained, by his
eloquence.   I
Mss ortimer, have you ever considered why
so much truly romantic beauty should have been
collected in one spot, and then placed so, far out
of reach by.the millions belonging to the human
race?"
"Indeed, I have not, sir; the thought is too com-
prehensive for me; but I readily admit Athe beauty
you speak 0f "
La.m amply repaid for undergoing the perils of
travel," replied Mordaunt, "by the pleasure here
&amp;fe de   This i r  doubtless one of your favorite
reteats."
"It is, sir, when time permits me to come so far
from home. You know, Mr. Mordaunt, my parents
are eminentl practical in their views, and counsel
niyelf and Frederick not, to despise labor. This
curtails my rambling."
"Labor ! Miss Mortimer. I thank your parents
for that noble. sentiment which has thus reached me.
Labor, bodily toil, is the companion of health; the
essence of'happiness;and the Ikey to undying friend:.
1hi. He who has=not learned the art and habit of
steady physical endurance, knows not the highest
joystof life.: Friendship,where it exists in purity,
mustha.ve labor to make thesoil healthy. In this
lovely rayine,, ten thousand. lives are kept animate ;
trees, shrubs, mosses, ferns, wild-flowers, countless
as the ands:of the sea, for ages have lived and died,
ithout a thought of discod: Will the idea be

48


G BO1Z G L ,M ELVYI LR1,149

deemed by you to be extravagantif I add, that this
is because each little plant, or wild and hardy shrub,
each graceful beech, each haughty, maple, or each
noble pine.  a ts=ever been found patiently, steadily;
earnestly at work. Yes! and I think,_you    uust agree
with me, that the inhabitants of the natural world,
pervaded by quiet, modest, earnest industry, allow
no time for strife ; no champions for jarring prin-
ciples; no fields upon which haughty passion and
grasping ambition may spread the war-clad host, or
marchthe serried column.     The, law  of love reigns
supreme over their world. Friendship e"dsts there in
purity. One general language pervadesthe whole=-
here, in this lovely spot; or, at its antipodes; and
that, Miss Mortimer, is the language of friendship,
love and truth.
Mordaunt, watching the effect of his words upon
the lovely being at his side, thought that such a prize
was, indeed, worthy an earnest struggle.
The morning after the pic-nic party, he sat in his
room, from the windows of which, he obtained a fine
view of "  ayuga's lovely waters."
"Ah 1" said he, in soliloquy, "my dear aunt and
mother must not be       forgotten."   Preparing   his
writing materials, he penned the. following letter.
The reader. will learn from    its contents his plans,
motives, and the secret springs from whence they
flowed.
AURORA, Augu8t 7, 18-.
MY DEARsT AUNT:
aYour commands are ever the goveiming rules of my acts.
This letter, therefore, mtist tellmy whole soul  Bell Mortimer, I
think, will satisfy even niy fastidious taste. But I find the .coast is
not clear. Clara Edgemonte looks upon my humble self with suspi-
cion. As yet, I do not lk *why, but evidently she knows more
3

A9


about me than she has revealed. Something prevents her from cau-
tioning the lovely Bell against me. Bell is, therefore, thus far, unsus-
pecting.
Yesterday I threw out a little policy which perhaps will lead pretty
Clara off of her beat. She has steadily persevered in preventing any
private talk between Bell and myself, from the moment we left New
York.  By a coup d'etat, yesterday, I oitgeneralled her.  But for
this Clara, I should have told my tale of love yesterday. For the
purpose of quieting Miss Clara's mind, I merely talked nonsense. We
shall soon see what effect this will produce. I am enjoying myself
superbly.  Frederick_Mortimer is companionable, and change of
scene you know to be'my delight. I send to-day, per -express, a
white French rose, to add to your collection. If my memory serves
me, it is not 'on your list. I got it at Auburn, while on a drive there
yesterday P.M., with Fred. Until more happens, adieu.
Your affectionate nephew,
JAs. MoRnAUT.

x50

GEORGE MELVILLE.

i
i
t
O
i.
e
1
E
1
1         k
x
T
'              \         L
a
t
f
"t
fi
S
T
,
_
i
f
w
i
i

vi.
Clara Edgemonte's Mistake.
As the last was a lengthy chapter, this, for con-
trast, shall be short.
"Bell," said Clara Edgemonte, "you have not told
me a word about your walk this morning, with
Mr. Mordaunt. I have been making all the confes-
sions. Come, fair coz, begin."
"Oh! II had a splendid time ! Be still-don't tell
Charley Dickens what extravagant terms I employ.
He says, in substance, that we Americans either boil
over with ecstasy, or freeze into solid ' chunks of
wisdom.' He is about right; but I don't believe in
telling him I think so."
"Come, come; please let the dickens take Charley
Dickens, and tell me about James Mordaunt, Esq.,
Bell."
In this playful way, Clara carefully drew from
her cousin . a full history of her walk with Mor-
daunt, conversation included. Clara saw that Mor-
daunt had not spoken of love.  Her expectations,
therefore, were not, realized. She was puzzled.
Again' and again she adroitly questioned Bell, but
nothing appeared to' have occupied Mr. Mordaunt's
thoughts beyond a gentlemanly effort to interest and
amuse his companion.
" Well, I am surprised," said Clara tq herself, lean-

51

MGEORGE MELVILLE. 1

4


GEORGE MELVILLE,

ing her head upon her hand, in thought.1 " Mordaunt
is an enigma too deep for me. Bell is, then, safe,
and I have had my anxiety for nothing ;" and Clara's
face began to wear a happier expression than since
the hour she left New York. Mordaunt's skillful
policy had completely succeeded. Clara no longer
felt the necessity of watching over Bell's interviews
with him. She concluded that her interpretation of
his conduct was incorrect.

52,

4
1

53

VII.
Melville's and Griswold's Tour-A true Hand and firm'Seat always
come in Play.
" MELv1LL, I don't fully like going through this
piece of woods to-day."
"Pshaw! Tam, thou art brave; for I have tested
thee under trying circumstances. It is now (looking
at his watch) ten minutes after four. Look here,"
(to the hostler) "how far is it to the next tavern ?"
" It's about tin miles, yer honor," replied a genuine
son of.Erin; "through the wood all ov the way, and
a gude taste ov bad road the fut four miles ov the
tin sure."
Just then; two men, dressedin the garb of wood-
choppers, entered the apology for a tavern, and
going up to the bar, called for drinks. One of them,
having a keen black eye, low forehead, short, coarse,
and black hair, a.-little walnut-shaped head, dark
complexion, rather below the medium height, but
evidently a man of most powerful muscular develop-
ment, after setting down his glass, approached Mel-
ville, and looking at him with a careless glance, and
half respectful, half patronizing air, said-
" Would you like to sell that grey ov your'n?
He's worth a cool hundred and fifty. I'll give 'that,
cash down, and risk his being' sound."

GEORGE MEEVILLE.

y
1
,D
.                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                                           /                                                                          x
i
f
\                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t
I
".                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SP
L7


GEORGE MELVILLE.

" Four hundred would be no temptation, my good
sir,"'politely replied Melville.
"]P'raps you've an idee I can't pay down. There's
the chink, friend " said the apparent horse-dealer, at
the same time holding up a large roll of bank bills.
"It won't do, sir," replied Melville.  "I am  a
traveller, and would be obliged to obtain another
horse."
"Want to trade hosses, then ? I'm your man for
that, too. Jim, go git my bay."
"No, sir, you need not; I cannot trade. Land-
lord, my bill, if you please," said Melville.
Melville and Griswold were soon mounted, and
had entered the road already described, which led
through a piece of woods for over ten miles. hey
were situated , in the southern part of Alleghany
county, and doubtless even at this day are still in
existence,unless so much thereof as would make pine
lumber fit for market.
"Jim, them's gallus lads. They've both got piles
of chink, and we ain't'rum uns of we let 'em pass."
"Bob, Hi sez hamen. You knows Hi'm a man
hof. work, and not hof words."
Git out the nags, then, and we'll head 'em about
'alf and 'alf thro', at the pine stump," said the man
called Bob.
Taking a. cow-path through the woods, the high.
wayrmen, ,for such was the true character of the
peudo wood-choppers, perfectly familiar with the
ground, by urging their horses a short time, came
out upon. the forest road in advance of the two young
men. About half-way through the forest, directly in
hecentre of the road, stood an immense pine stump.
here dismounting, the two worthies led their horses

4

4
r
c
t
E
t
i
t
t
1
I'
7
r              i

sufficiently into the wood to be out of sight,. but
where they could be quickly obtained. They then
quietly awaited the approach of the young men. In
a few moments, Melville and Griswold appeared.
"Jim,'you take the bay horse; I'll head the grey.
Have your shootin' irons had a good supper ?"
"Yes, Bob. Hi'm thinkin' has 'ow hif they git
sick and throw up, one hof thim  chaps will git ha
'ole through 'im."
"Whist ! Jim, lie close !" hissed the ;robber called
Bob. "Now for the grey !"
"STirrm !" said Bob, presenting a pistol at Melville's
breast, and grasping the rein of his horse in the left
hand ; "your money, if you please, sir."
"HOLD !" said Melville; "you can have the money,
but don't fire."
"All right, rum un ; but I guesses you may as
well dismount, as we'll make the hoss trade now, ha,
ha !"
The other robber, with equal boldness, had seized
Griswold's horse, and held him where the slightest
effort at resistance would have been certain death.
Melville eagerly fumbled in his pockets for hisporte-
monnie, which, apparently, he could not find. His
right hand went first into one pocket,. then into
another. The left then was made to perform the same
office. Until suddenly turning towards Griswold,
but really keefjing his eye on the robber who held his
rein, he called out:
" Tam, you must have my pocket-book."
The robber, for the instant, was thrown off his
guard, and turned his eye in the direction of Gris-
wold while -Melville, who had, while apparently
fumbling in his pockets for his 'money, cocked a pis-

55

GEORGE MELVILLL.


tol, with which he was armed, suddenly drew the
weapon, and aiming at the man who held Griswold's
horse, fired. His own horse, unused to fire-arms, in-
stantly bounded away from the grasp.of the robber,
frightened at the report of the pistol. Melville turned
to see what effect his shot had made, when he saw
Griswold following him at the top of his horse's speed.
Almost at the same instant he saw a flash, followed
by a report, and felt that a bullet had struck him
somewhere.   Perceiving no pain, he dashed on.
Griswold soon overtook him.
"By Jove, George, you did for my fellow,!" shout-
ed Griswold. "He's past praying for."
"Hold in ! Tam, this pace is killing. We are
pretty well out of that scrape. It might have been
an ugly affair, if my shot had not been a true one."
An hour hence the two were housed in another
apology for a tavern, having once more reached the
open country.  As Melville entered the bar-room,
taking off his hat, he discovered for the first time that
he had a wound of some kind on his head.
"Tam, I rather think that last shot has made its
mark on my head somewhere. Here are two as pret-
ty holes in my hat as I could make with hammer and
punch."
Well, really," said Griswold, examining his
friend's head, "you have got a scratch which, unless I
am ignorant of cause and effect, will keep you com-
pany until your bones are presented with'six feet of
ground.'"
"Amiss is as good as a mile," carelessly respond-
ed Melville. "Landlord,.give us a basin of water,
and we will soon put the head in order."
The officious tavern-keeperhastened to accommodate

his guests ; but something in his manner, which even
George afterwards could not explain, aroused suspicion.
Taking Griswold by the arm, he strolled from the
house (the only one for two miles around) until out
of ear-shot.
" Griswold !" said Melville.
Griswold started. Melville had not thus addressed
him since the first week of their acquaintance; but
had always used the well-known nick-name "Tom,"
merely changing the " o" into an "a " for the sake
of oddity.
" What troubles you, my friend? Are you in pain
from your wound? Why is it not Tam as usual? Have
I offended you unwittingly in this exciting matter
to-day ?"
" Offended me, my tried and trusty friend! No!
But I will tell you what I suspect. That grey-h ad-
ed landlord is as great a rogue as the especial friends
we met in the wood ; and in all probability they are
intimate associates in villainy, and perhaps murder.
You see, then, I am araxious somewhat for the life of
my friend; a little anxious for my own, besides hav-
ing a care to our noble steeds. In my opinion, unless
we are '.wise as serpents,' we shall not, be treated as
'harmless as doves.'"
" Let us continue our journey, and not abide here
in the enemy's country, then," said Griswold.
"No, that won't work. The old man could easily
shoot us down while we were waiting for our horses.
His plan probably is to murder us in our sleep. list!
We are watched.. There is a boy under that log,
continued Melville, his voice now reduced to a whis-
per. ":Let us return to the house. You shall know
my plan soon after supper."

GEORGE MELVILLE.

fi

56

,GEORGE MELV1LLE.

t
'
"
v
c
t
I
t1
}F
}7
V
3       1


GEORGE ME2vILLE'

The two young men were truly in the #ery jaws of
thewolf. The tavern-keeper was one of a gang of bur-
glare, counterfeiters, robbers, and murderers, having
New York city as its centre of operations, and extend-
ing .through the great West and South., At eleven
o'clock, the robber called Bob was admittedby a
private entrance into the house, bearing his wounded
companion. The admission was not so private, how-
ever, asthe villains congratulated themselves. Mel-
ille, determined on his plan of operations for the
night, had retired to his room at an early hour in
company.with Griswold, haing first provided him-
self with a strong rope. Carefully locking the door,
he explored the. room.. Satisfied that no one could
enter except through the door, he told Griswold
to extinguish the light, and place himself a sen-
tinel in the darkest corner in the room. Then tying
the rope to the bed-post, he lowered it carefully to
the ground through the window.
"Now, Tam, if you hear our old college whistle,
you must join me immediately. If there is any
attempt on the room, give the signal yourself, and
descend the rope at once. I will take our traps,
obtain the horses during the night; and we will
leave before morning."
All right ! I rather like this. It grows exciting,"
repliedGriswold.
Melville now made his descent. As he nearly
reached the ground, his foot struck against an, empty
cask; which, rolling over, made considerable noise.
"cPull up the rope, quick," whispered Melville.
Griswold obeyedlthe order only just in time ; for
the noise attracted the tavern keeper who came fronr
the rear of the house with a lantern.

58

,
i
}    f
_.
1

GEORGE MELVILLE.

"What do you s'pose it was, then?  noises like that
don't come without they's made."
"There, I told you the old barrel had fallen off the
heap o' stones, and there 'tis," replied an old hag, his
wife; who accompanied him.
"That are barrel's had some one to kick it over,
Sally."
"Pshaw ! no, it haint. The dog jumped on it this
mornin', and it rolled over, for I put it back, and
here comes Trip now. Here, Trip! .Trip ! come
here ! You musn't roll the barrel over again-that's
a good dog," said the old hag, addressing the latter
half of her remarks to the dog.
Trip came up, licked the old woman's hand, and
received her caress. He then went to his master,
and, fawning upon him for an instant, ran towards
the fence, and commenced barking.
Melville at this time lay within six feet of the dog.
"What is it, Trip ?"
Again the dog fawned upon him, ran  towards the
fence, and barked.
Melville instantly commenced crawling away from
the house. He was near a small corn patch.
The old man, coming to the fence, held up his
lantern, and recognizing the moving body, in the
uncertain light, took it for a pig.
"There's a pig in the cornfield, Sally. Sick 'urn,
Trip ! sipk 'um!P"
Melville; who heard every word, resolved to act
out the pig. He therefore made for the corn on all
fours as rapidly as possible. Under cover of the
corn he rose to his feet, and ran for the road, the dog
chasing and barking at himr
The old man and woman then returned into the

59

*4


60     GEORGE MELVILLE.

house, followed this time by the dog, who did not
seen to relish the effect of being stoned, a circum-
stance for which Melville most earnestly thanked his
good stars.
Melville now gained a position where he could
command a view of both entrances to the house, being
resolved to wait and watch. By this means he be-
came a spectator of the admission of the two robbers.
As soon as they had entered, he resolved to seek his
horses, rightly judging that it would take some little
time, as well as attention from all up in'the house, to
hear the story of the wounded man and perhaps to
administer to his comfort. He gained the little shell
of a barn, and, striking a light, which he kept ,burn-
ing long enough- to see where the saddles, bridles,
etc., were, soon had both horses in order for mount-
ing. He then returned cautiously towards the house.
Lights were moving about. He concluded, as every-
thing was ready, to give Griswold the concerted
signal. Before he could do so, however, he heard
the whistle from the window.'. Running for the
horses, he seized their halters, backed them  out
quickly, mounted his own, and leading Griswold's,
bode to the window. Griswold has ready for him,
and catching his own horse's bridle, mounted in-
stantly. At this moment a light appeared in the
room just vacated by Griswold.
"There they go, houses and all," said the robber
called Bob. "Hand me a shooting' iron !" added he
with an oath.
But forthis latter sentence no blood would have
been spilled. Melville having heard it, considered
that self-preservation demanded the death, or, at least,.
disabling of the. robber,'whose head and shoulders

-

GEOGE] MELVI'LLE.
were out of the window ; and, upon which the
light shone clearly, making him, to Melville's really
practised hand, a fair mark. Drawing a pistol from
his pocket, he shouted:
"In with your head,,or you are a dead man 1"
The robber having received a pistol, was in the
act of cocking it, when a ball sent by Melville struck
him in the left shoulder. He was so far out of the
window, that, on being struck, he pitched forwards,
and fell headlong to the -ground, where he gave one
heavy groan, and all was still.
"Now, George," said Griswold, "I suppose we
might as well start."
"Yes," replied Melville. "It's too bad I had to
shoot him; with the ball and the fall, he can't have
much chance for life. One consolation I have. His
death makes a rascal less in the world."
"Now, Griswold; for the shire town of this ever-
to- be-remembered. county. We must do our duty
to society as good citizens, as well as fight bravely
in self-defence. The lawyers must have a job.


S1rGEORGE MELVILLE.
Sunset at Niagara-James Mordaunt's Declaration.
IT was the hour for sunset at Niagara. Earth was
Ientwining around the most sublime scene upon her
bosomthe folds of darkness. The busy hum of life
ceased with the day. The voice of Niagara, hoarse
by a practice of ages, was heard alone where silence
may never hold her peaceful sceptre. From time
immemorial, that voice Chas been faithful unto the na-
tions. One truth is all it has been commanded to
eveal, one sentence all it has learned to utter.
Vying with the artillery of Heaven, it has forever
proclaimed throughout the world,
HEEIs .A. GrOD !"
*      *      *      *       *      *
Goat Island, as all the world know, is between the
American and Horse Shoe Falls. It is a lovely spot
of earth. Across the seemingly fragile bridge, which
leads to the island from the American shore, at about
 four o'clock,r. M., James Mordaunt accompanied Miss
Bell Mortimer for a stroll, and to view the Falls at
sunset.
"t each recurring visit to this island, my thoughts
become sad," remarked Mordaunt. " It was in the
year18- that I frst visited this spot. I wasthn

63

.  1
'f
l
f             _
.
k
1
{a
'     f
F
{
4 M
w
{
t
1
t
F

one spectator among a hundred, of that unrelenting
power with which the rapids shows man his weak-
ness, even when excited almost to frenzy, on ac-
count of the peril of his kind."
" What was the circumstance, Mr. Mordaunt ?"
asked Bell.
"A man in a small boat was drawn within their
fascinating but terrible influence."
"I need not ask, I suppose," said Bell, ",whether
he was drowned ?"
"That boiling caldron yonder," said Mordaunt,
pointing to the Horse-shoe Fall, now partly in sight,
".has never revealed the fate it measured out to the
poor fellow."
It does not suit the purpose of this story to describe,
however tempting the subject, Niagara. We are not
bold enough to enter the lists against the mighty
geniuses who have been tilting over the pleasing task.
As an American, we love Niagara; but, as an Ameri-
can, we frankly acknowledge that Niagara belongs
to the world. So, too, thought Mordaunt.
" That is. the English fall, Mr. Mordaunt; it is
more extensive than the American," said Bell. "I
don't like that."
"You will, I trust, Miss Mortimer, allow me to
make a slight criticism upon that remark," said Mor-
daunt.
" Oh-! most willingly," replied Bell.
"With your permission, then, I will state, that in
my judgment, 'American' and 'English' are mere-
ly appellations for a distinction in converse. Both
of the falls bear one general name, 'Niagara.' By
that title they are know tothe world, anduender that
title they belong to the word; I[t igangrely the 'ac-

GEORGE' MELvILLE.


"H :

GEORGE MELYIvLLE.

cident of birth' which has placed them under the
jurisdiction of the American and English govern-
ments."
"I thank you for this chastisement, Mr. Mordaunt,"
replied Bell; " my remark was selfish."
"Please call it by a softer name, my friend,; chas-
tisement is not for gentleness, goodness, and beauty,"
replied Mordaunt.
"That last remark, Mr. Mordaunt, has made the
sugar predominant over the bitter ; therefore, inas-
much as your criticism is just, I am forced to grant
judgment in your favor."
"Thank you, most beautiful jurist. How well you
adorn the bench !  And d prpos to this remark,
here, under this beautiful foliage, is a bench which
you can adorn without fear of a rival," replied Mor
daunt.
"A very safe proposition, Mr. Mordaunt, for the
simple reason that no suitors will bring their cases
here, wherefore I shall not have an opportunity to
display my legal attainments,", playfully responded
Bell.
"Your are mistaken, Miss Mortimer. There is one
suitor who places his life and destiny in your hands.
Yes,;gentle being, one who has learned first to ad-
mire, then to esteem, now loves you-deeply; devot-
"edly he loves you, and offers for your acceptance, his
heart and hand, and is ready to seal the contract with
his life's best energies devoted to your welfare.
Uponyogrdcision, Miss Mortimer, rests the happi-
ness of a suitor who can never love again."
Bell was taken so suddenly and completely by sur
praise at this most unexpected declaration of his senti-
ments.towards .her, that for the moment she Was

I

completely overcome. Her hand, therefore, rested un-
resistingly in his, sheering perfectly unconscious that
he had taken it. She instantly withdrew it as thought
returned.  The color, which had completely left
her, now came back. The thought that she could
never return his offered affection, mingled with some
feelings of anger at his boldness, caused the warm
blood to course more swiftly though her veins, spread-
ing over her brow the marks of distress and _anx-
iety.. Leaving the seat, she exclaimed:
" I will return, Mr. Mordaunt."
"Pardon me, Miss Mortimer, if I have offended
you. The deep "
"I can listen no more in this place, sir," interrupt-
ed Bell.
" May I then hope ?"
" Pardon me, Mr. Mordaunt; but I must command
your silence 'upon this subject. It is my wish that
we immediately return."
" Let me call a-carriage ; I see an empty one," said
Mordaunt.
"Thank you, sir, I will ride."
The sun, for some time had been beneath the
horizon. The gathering darkness, as she stepped
into the carriage, seemed to Bell Mortimer as an
evil omen. She was not one to give vay to such
feelings upon slight cause ; but the darkness which
now filled her soul, awoke an indescribable fear;
and the remembrance that "coming events often cast
their shadows before," mingled with the loud roar
ing of the falls, caused her to tremble.
:" What should I fear " she asked herself. "This
must be woman'sireakness. I must te11 him I can:-
not love him  and that will end it."

GEORGE- MELVILLE.

65

Q-4-


G BEORXG  yME.6EORGMMLLILLE

several times, during the ride to the hotel, she
essayed to speak her decision. A fear, of which she
was herself ashamed, controlled her, and she post-
poned the subject for the morrow. Language almost
refuses terms to describe the anguish of spirit which
accompanied Bell that night to her pillow. She
feared Mordaint. But, whyi This question was' ever
present. About an hour before daybreak, she fell
into a troubled sleep, only to awaken in a short
time, from a horrid dream which pictured her as
praying that she might die. Earth appeared. no
longer to hold any joy for, her--death had become
her only hope for release. On awakening, the poor
girl burst into tears; and for the first time, her
cousin Clara, who occupied the same bed, noticed
her unhappiness.
"Dear, dear Bell, what has caused you to weep ?"
said.Clara.
Gently twining her arms around Bell, Clara pressed
her soft cheek against her cousin's,  endeavoring to
soothe and comfort her.
"Clara,. I am very weak !" said Bell; but the
burning tears fell thicker and faster.
"Do tell me what makes.you weep, dear Bell?
I cannot endure this suspense."
Bell now arose. Hastily putting on a morning
eshe, threw herself again into her cousin's arms,
nnidtold her all the events of the day previous.
Clara listened with a painfully intense interest to
all she had to say.
What shall I' do? I do nqt--I cannot love him;
and yet why this fear? What 'is it, Clara, that
frightens me. so ?"
"IL d6 not know, unless it is a warrtingto you of

. I

the future. Oh," thought Clara, "my dear, dear
cousin, if I dared but to reveal"
She was about to speak, but at this instant there
was a knock upon the door, and Clara's mother
was admitted to the room. Bell turned to her toilet
to hide her feelings from her aunt.
"Come," girls, we are all ready for a walk. Fred-
erick and Mr. Mordaunt are waiting for you. Your
father and mother, Bell, have been up this half hour.
The morning has put on all the glories of an Italian
sky. A walk will soon adorn your faces. Come
down quickly. No loitering."

67
s
' i
4

466

GEORGE ' MEL'VIEEE"


GEORG:E MELVILLE.

X.
The morning walk-An Old Friend in Duplicate.
' Goon morning, Mr. Griswold. You here at the
Falls! This is really a pleasure I had not credited
in your favor, sir!" and "Uncle Harry " continued
for some little time shaking warmly by the hand the
young gentleman, already pretty well known to the
reader, "Thomas Griswold."   "When did you ar-
rivel Are you directly from New York? How is
my old friend who owns you for his boy ?"
These, and numerous other questions of similar
import, were rattled'off in "Uncle Harry's" business-
like way, giving Griswold no opportunity to, answer:
any of them. Griswold was taken by surprise, as
well as filled with real pleasure. He had known
Mr. Edgemonte from   his boyhood as an intimate
friend of his father. They were often connected in
business operations, which frequently brought Mr.
to his father's house of late years, Mr. Gris-
wold having retired from the more active scenes of
trade.
;Mr. Edgemonte," replied Griswold, ''I rejoice
greatly at this opportune meeting. I hail, however
from College; not from New York."
"Rusticating, I hope ; not rusticated," and Uncle
Harry laughed at is own wit.

f1

68

QSEOlGE MELVILLE. (
" The former, I assure you; and, if it needs proof,
here is a college chum of mine, whom I beg leave to
introduce to you. He will testify in my. favor."
"Certainly, Thomas, certainly ! by all means intro-
duce us."
" Mr. Edgemonte, my friend, Mr. Melville. Mr.
Melville, Mr. Edgemonte."
"IHappy to make your acquaintance, sir. We are
very well met. You and Clara, I believe, are old
friends, Mr. Griswold. Mr. Mordaunt is with us:
and I thmk In can introduce you..to somebody who
will set your young blood in a fever. Clara, I know,
has told you often about Cousin Bell."
"Why, really you have got a party with you, Mr.
Edgemonte. George, we may as well put on' our
happiest smiles instead of those blues you talked about
at daybreak. But we are detaining your Mr. Edge-
monte."
Thus Griswold replied, feeling quite proud of the
necessities with which fortune seemed to have pre-
sented him.
"No! no ! no detention," replied Mr. Edgemonte.
"On the contrary, I shall make a contract that both
of you breakfast with me. They are all within trum-
pet-call, taking a morning view of the Falls. 'We
have an exclusive breakfast at the Cataract House at
eight. It is my arrangement, and, therefore, the
pleasure of an old friend's boy cannot but be allow..*
able. Mr. Melville is welcome, too; for, if he is a
chip off the old block, I know more of him than he
thinks."
Melville looked up in surprise, awaiting an expla-
nation of thisasingular remark. He had always been
told from infancy that lhe was the perfect picture of


GEORGE MELVILLE.

his father; but this was the first time the resem.
blance had appeared to be real.
tYour father, unless am wrong in the footing-up,
owns a very pretty piece of land within the precincts
of Edgartown, on the island, set down upon the
map, as Martha's Vineyard. His name is William
Melville, Esq., formerly a merchant of Boston, where,
by the way, he. spends most of his winter months.
.Am I right, sir ?"
" You are, Mr. Edgemonte ; and I am curious to
know more of your acquaintance with my father,"
replied George.
"Very well, George, come to breakfast with
Thomas at sharp eight, and you shall learn the whole
story. .'Hairry' and '.Bill' were titles your father
and I have used in addressing each other, thousands.
of times."
George Melville was indeed surprised.   With
Griswold, he left Mr. Edgemonte to prepare for the
breakfast party.  - _,
*  *e
"Come at last! Here I've been in a terrible gale
this twenty minutes," said Uncle Harry.
"Why, father, what has so sexeited you?" said
Clara.
" Excited! Is it not a quarter past seven? Break-
fast at eight, and you little plagues, mother, sister,
and all, have only three quarters of an hour to get on
your dry-goods, and balance your account with the
looking-glass."
Why, we are all ready now, uncle mine," said
dell."Father and I have had a beautiful stroll;
and there come mother and Mr. Mordaunt."
"Well, if you girls are sure the cases are all right

70

6

' 4

.GEORGE- MfELVIL'LE. 7
you may mail the invoices; but I'm of the opinion
the young collegians will scrutinize all the packages
closely ; therefore, II hope there are no mistakes.
Don't tell me you were not fully warned-that's
all."
Without giving them   time for any questions,
Uncle Harry hastily pulled out his watch, put on one
of his unapproachable, sober faces, turned- nervously
on his heel, and left the party, entirely deaf to the
"Uncle Harrys" which followed him.
"What does Uncle Harry mean, Clara ?"
"That you, Bell, and you, my little  pet, Clara,"
interrupted Mr. Mortimer, "are destined to meet
with some surprise at the breakfast-table ; so run on,
and ' pack the cases all right,' by which Mr. Edge-
monte means, that if your toilets are not right for
strangers, they must be made so."
Bell and Clara, upon hearing this explanation, im-
mediately left Mr. Mortimer, and hastened, unat-
tended, to the hotel. Mordaunt, who was approach-
ing with Mrs. Mortimer, seeing the young ladies -*
leave Mr. Mortimer so unceremoniously, immediately  *
concluded it was a ruse of Bell's to avoid his com-
pany. The iron entered his soul.  His lips were
suddenly and firmly compressed; his brow grew
several shades darker; but quickly mastering him-
self; with the ready ease of a man of the world, he
bestowed the most delicate attentions upon Mrs. Mor-
timer. He succeeded -so completely in 'arresting
both Mrs. and Mr. Mortimer's attention, the'parties
having now met, that tbie departure of. the young
ladies was not again thought of, and consequently
went unexplained.


72      GEORGE n Nt1VILLE.

XI.
Hon. B. F. Mortimer-H. B. Edgemonte, Esq.-James .Mordaunt,
Esq.--Frederick Mortimer-Thomas F. Griswold-George Melville
-Mrs. Mortimer-Mrs. Edgemonte-Bell Mortimer-Clara Edge-
monte-The Breakfast-Party.
IT was now ten minutes before eight. Mr. and
Mrs. Edgemonte were seated in their private parlor,
awaiting the appearance of their company. Mr. and
Mrs. Mortimer were the first to enter.
"Edgemonte, this is a capital hit. I have not k
wanted a breakfast with such promptings of the
innei man for some time," said Mr. Mortimer.
"Ben, do you remember 'iBill Melville?'" said
Mr. Edgemonte, not noticing Mr. Mortimer's remark.
",Bill Melville-Bill Melville I" said Mr. Morti-
mer, drawing down his heavy eyebrows, and half-
closing his eyes, as a man does who is suddenly
carried back thirty or forty years of his life.
"Yes? Well, he is to appear to-day, by as perfect a
representation of himself as a son can be of a father ;
and'a'noble looking fellow he is. If it don't carry
you back to boyhood days, then I am no prophet."
Bill Melville! Yes, I do remember him.      He
was a clerk with 'Sacket &amp; Waddel,' importers and
jobers, when. Fwas an under-graduate at Columbia
College," said Mr. Mortimer.

GEORGEn  MEtaVILLE.            738
"That's right ! that's right ! He is now living
easily at Edgartown, on Martha's Vineyard, spending
his winters at Boston. I met a young gentleman
from New York, son of my- old friend James H.
Griswold, who introduced Melville to me. It seems
they are now at Hamilton College, and are spending
their vacation in travel.
A rap at the door interrupted Mr. Edgemonte.
His wife handed a couple of cards to her husband,
brought by a waiter.
"Show the gentlemen up, if you please, sir," said
Mr. Edgemonte tp the waiter.
In a few moments Mr. Griswold, accompanied by
his friend Melville, entered the room.
They were cordially greeted by their host. Mr.
Mortimer immediately'recalled the features of the
father as reflected in George Melville ; and, after the
necessary formality of an introduction had' been
accomplished, engaged him in conversation.
"Mr. Melville, this is'one- of the most extraordi--
nary fancies which the old lady 'Dame Fortune,'
has ever seen fit to exhibit in my behalf. Your
father, when a-young man, was one of my intimate
friends. It is now, over thirty years since we have
met.. I see in you the friend of my youth."
"Your remarks bespeak a generous heart, sirof
which I shall be proud to know more," said Melville,
respectfully. " My father is one, too, who does not
forget the friends of his youth."
"Not he, not he !-but here are two young gentle-
men with whom you must be made acquaited   Mr.
Griswold, Mr. Mordaunt; my son Frederick. Mr.
lMelville, gentlemen."
The young gentlemen, having est ended to each


4~I~    GEORGE, MEILYILLE.
other the usual courtesies of a Arst iWtro uction were
scarely seated when the young ladies entered the
room.
perceive the cases' were not right," said Mr.
Edgemonte. "Inasmuch as the corrections are all
made;' I have no objection to invoicing the goods
now. Mr. Melville, allow me to present youto my
daughter."
"I am most happy at this introduction, Miss Edge-
Monte,"said Melville, a little embarrassed, taken thus
somewhat unawares at being unexpectedly the first
introduced.
"It gives me equal pleasure, Mr. Melville," grace-
fully replied Clara, for a moment taking his hand
and aceoinpanying the act with a smile of generous
hospitality, which wreathed her face, plaited by na-
te's unrivalled tueh. -"And you, Mr. Griswold!
Fthe this isindeed a surprise."
Clara's ountenance was instantaneously radiant
with the most unaffected enjoyment.  I
"But I must not forget that I l~ve acousi gen-
tlenen"said Clara.  "Mr. Griswold, this is n
cousin Bell. You ought to know her. Mr.Melville
will you allow me to introduce you to Miss Morti-
mer?"
Benllwas not-could not be-herself. She in-
wardlyel that smiles would only prove to be sickly
.flehoeds'. Her soul was sad.  Nordaunt''eyshe
e    was pon;her; for without seeing it, 6he felt:
e ineof his piercing glanee. Clothing her
j      _: e d iet, but subdued reserve she greeted
t gentleman with an easy dignity ofkmanne
S ontrasted most admirably with the graceful
ay      hr.cousin1

GEOIlGE MELVILLE.    75

Melville, at that instant, felt the warm blood course
more quickly through his veins.
A waiter, knocking at the door, announced break-
fast.
"Mr. Melville-Miss Mortimer," said Mr. Edge-
monte, offering his arm at the same instant to Mrs.
Mortimer. "Clara, you must take care of Mr. Gris-
wold. Fred, you and Mr. Mordaunt must bring up
the rear."
With this he led the way, followed by Mr. Morti-
mer and Mrs. Edgemonte; the rest of the party in
the order he had designated.
Once seated at the breakfast-table, Mordaunt, for a
time, became the life and soul of the party. He wished
to win the friendship of the elder portion of the com-
pany. He' well knew that Mr. Mortimer, as an oray
tor, had few equals, in the forum, or before his
constituents. His style was scholastic and practical.
Mordaunt had been a severe student ; and, in letters
carried " an old head upon youthful shoulders." Usu~
his advantages with a skillful touch, he succeeded
in winning first the respect, and then the high esteem
of Bell's 'father. Mr. Edgemonte, who could not ap
preciate the refined, belles-lettres style, looked through
the smile of the man, at his eye; and, through sinister
but instantaneous glances, which Mordaunt almost;
unconsciously allowed to mingle with his assumed
gaiety, he read the blacknessOf the heart within.
He had reason' for this. Bell's unusual lowness of
spirits had been a study with Mr.'Edgemonte during
the morning. He now saw, or thought he saw, the
cause.
"To-night, Mr. Melville, there is to be a soeil
evening party at Miss Blackwood's residence,", said

!g(
FF
Y
k
t
r,
'
3
t,
t
,


GEORGE MELVILLE.
Clara. "I propose to visit your passport to that lady's
domain.   My friend, Miss Mortimer, shall perform
the same duty for Mr. Griswold."
" With pleasure I accept the generous offer, Miss
Edgemonte, and shill be only too happy to become a
humble addition to your party."
"I never dispute my cousin's right tp get me into
trouble," interposed Bell, playfully, "because I find
it does no good. Your passport, Mr. Griswold, shall
be entirely correct. Fred, will you please become
my private secretary, and attend to all the details ?"
" Most certainly, Bell," replied Frederick Morti-
mner.
" We shall expect you, gentlemen, at 8 o'clock
precisely," said Clara.
Mordaunt, the morning previous,when Miss Black-
wood's invitations came, had arranged with Bell to
accompany her, to this very party. It was to be
entirely young company; what is esteemed to be
one of Young America's-follies, had been again com-
mitted. Married ladies, the balance-wheels of youth-.
ful enjoyment ; the happy examples for inexperience
to study ; the splendid brilliants, polished to perfec-
tion, were among those "not included." The am-
bitious young lady who issues as her fiat, that mar-
ried ladies are "not included," before her party is
well over, will be told by experience that her beauti-
gully clustered brow is "not unclouded."
Our gentlemen readers (who do not agree with.
this), willplease excuse the digression.

GEORGE MELVILLE.

TI.
Bob Shank-The Fire-The Cave.
"BOBn! in with your head; these fellows hev shown
you as how they kin shoot. Furies! there he goes
out o' the winder ; that shot's settled him. Run,
Sally, run-quick !" saying these words, the tavern-
keeper, with whom the reader is already somewhat
acquainted, hastened down stairs and ran out beneath
the window, where the robber had fallen. Appa-
rently, he .was dead. Picking up the body, lie
carried it into the house. His wife used what little
effort she could to assist him, and afterwards to bring
him to life. Her efforts in the latter respect, how-
ever, were useless.-
"This is bad bis'niss, Sally; two pals done fur in
one day, and one as good as dead."
"Why don't ye git out the hoss and go for a
doctor ?" said his wife.
"I'se thinkin' as 'ow this 'ere matter won't bear
talking' to a doctor 'bout. You see, old 'oman, as 'ow
thim fellers 'ul go and 'peach, and it ain't safe fur
any on us to stay here over night. The grabs will
be here early to-morrow mornin', ur I'm no proffit.
I'se thinkin' we'd better sot the old crib a-burnin'
and leave.' The house won't bear saichia'"
To pack up all they could conveniently car, was

'A

r
s


18       GEORG-E MELVILLE.

the work of a short time only. Getting out his
houses, the old man lifted the two wounded men into
the wagon. When all was ready for a start, turning
to Sally, he said:.
"Now, you jist drive on through the woods till
you come to the 'big maple:' there wait for me ; I'll
be there in 'bout an hour."
After his wife had been gone about fifteen minutes,
he applied a torch to the building; hastily heaping
on some dry wood, in a few moments the building
was in a blaze.
"Well, you've come at last; I was gittin' a little
feared," said the tavern-keeper's wife. "That blaze
makes a bright light."
"Yes, and I ain't sorry nuther. The place was
gittin' to be suspicioned, anyhow. I've made 'nuff
out ov it, and the land wouldn't sell fur mor'n a
hundred dollars.  Now, we'll make for the big
cave."
Striking into the.wood, by a peculiarly circuitous
winding among the trees, the old man was able to,
drive his horses, although no road had ever been
constructed. About daybreak, he arrived at a deep
ravine. le was now more than ;ten miles from any
dwelling. Near a huge rock there was an entrance
to a large cave. No one unacquainted with the cave
would be at all likely to discover it, as the rock was
so completely surrounded by underbrush that the
entrance was concealed.
"Here is.our home for awhile, Sally; we've been
here afore, and I'se thinking' we kin stay here again "
The horses were unhitched, and one by one led
int the cae. The traps were next carried in.
Several beds were unpacked, and as soon as they

OE}ORG F   tELYILLE.
were ready, the wounded men were placed on them.
The robber known as Bob, had given evidence that
he was yet living. When they had been duly cared
for, the old man took his wagon apart and carried
that into the cave, piece by piece.. lis precautions,
when he left the burning building, were useless
none of his neighbors saw or knew of the fire until
the following day. A few then came and viewed the
ruins, pitied the old man, and wondered what had
become of him.
"Now, Sally, I'll saddle the mare and go fur a
doctur; it must be did, at any cost, fur Bob's my
right-hand man. I'd give a hundred fur one .shot to
revenge Bob."
,Suiting action to words, the tavern-keeper was
soon on his way through the woods.
*    *    *         *.   *     *    *
"Oh !" groaned the miserable man, who now suf-
fered from the .effect of Melville's pistol;  oh:! I
would like to kill the villain who put a hole in my
shoulder. Let it alone !" he shrieked, as the doctor
ran his probe into the wound to find the bullet. His
cries of pain and blasphemy, however, were impotent.
The doctor, who was a most skillful surgeon, ordered
his patient to be firmly held. In a short time he
found and extracted the ball. .But for the very barrel
which had nearly discovered Melville to the tavern-
keeper, the robber would doubtless have been killed
by the fall. The ball had entered near his left shoul-
der. In fall ng, he had put forward his right arm,
- striking his hand upon the barrel in such a way, that
it in all probability was the means of saving his life.
The right arm was broken in two places. Having
dressedthe wound, the surgeon set, the arm. His

e


80     EoRGE MEL'vILL.E.

GEORGE MELVILLE.

patient fainted several times during the operation ;
but when the splints were on, he began to bear the
pain better.
The surgeon immediately turned his attention to
the other robber. His wound was not so severe as
his companion's. When his duty had been fully
performed-if saving a.man who is ripe for the gal-
lows can be called a duty-he said to the tavern-
keeper:
"It will be necessary that I come for some time ;
you must expect me at 4 o'clock each day, until I
give you further notice. If anything happens, you
must leave the signal on the pine stump."
" All right! Doctor, you're a trump, and no mis-
take. Here's a little roll. for you, which, in this
cause, goes as easy and a .little freer than it kum.
No questions answered, doctor ; mum's the word ;
and we shall be mutu'ly profitable."
The doctor counted over the money.
"One hundred," said he; "it's more than I want."
"Keep it ! keep it ! andl there's another ready for
Fyou whin thim pashunts is konvaleesunt."

.
F
y
lz
t
\.
i
y
a
C
.+
ry
t,    '?
'Y

.XIIIX
Bell hates the Rain, but finally has no objections to it-Miss
Blackwood's party.
" IT rains, Bell "
"I wish it poured, Fred."
"Why, Bell? To-night is the party."
"And to-night, I say, may it pour !"
"You would have to send a regret, if that wish is
granted."
" I would do so without a regret."
" Then I say, with regret, send it any way, Bell."
" I can't."
"Can't?2 I would just like to know   who has
driven the smiles from my Bell, that's all !"
"Fred, please sit down here."
"With the greatest pleasure," said he, first im-
printing a kiss upon' his sister's forehead. "What is
it, Bell? II am all attention."
" Mr. Mordaunt wants to take me away from my
brother."
" And what for ?"
"To make me a wife."
"Whew !" said Fred. "Not with my consent!"
"=Good t" said Bell.
"Why good ? Pshaw! that spoils all the romance.
I thought I had got to have a fight, or something of

5


GEOGE MELVILLE.GEORGE MEL

that kind, to keep you single. But seriously, Bell,
you decide correctly'. Mordaunt is a cold schemer.
If you are ever so silly as to commit matrimony, you
must have a heart. He has splendid talents, but
you would fade in a few years as his wife."
"Fred, I fear him."
"Fear- him ! why-?  Send him  about his busi-
ness, and remember you have a brother Frederick.
Bell, I must go and dress up."
"The cold schemer, Fred, may prove a deep vil-
lain !".
"Forewarned, you are forearmed."
"But father likes him, and mother has taken up
his cause ; either having been spoken to by him, or
having divined herself my secret."
"The former, inost likely, Bell. That would never
be like mother. She is not one to look out. in
advance for such nonsense.  Kiss me, Bell; and
then go and send him about his business. He is
now waiting for you in our parlor."
"'I will do so ; but promise, Fred, never to forsake
ee, if that business proves to be my persecution."
"A promise as easily kept as it is solemnly made;,
for I assure you, Bell, my heart is against him."
*    *
"Good afternoon, Mr. Mordaunt," said Bell, en-
tering the parlor.
"Good afternoon, Miss Mortimer," replied Mor-
daunt, with his most winning smile. "This rain-
tom is likely to dampen the ardor of the party-
goers."
"Do you think it will continue,shr '?"
"I cannot say, not being weather-wise.  ityor
wish, Miss Mortimer, that it abate ?"

"If my reply were based upon Bslfisness, it
would be, No, sir !"
"Io you not desire, then, to incur :the Arouble f
this evening's entertainment?  It would ive gre
great pleasure to spend the time in endeavorig to
bring back your smiles. I fear, Miss Mortpe, yiu
have not been happy since our interview spQh
Goat Island. You are not alone in this absece
of peace of mind. The thought tha t I he given
you one moment of pain; and the fear that the
gentle being I have learned to love, imxay banish
forever, from her presence and from happiness, one
whose life's ardent devotion is offered for 'her ac-
ceptance "
" Ahl! Bell, are you here ; And Mr.  or4aug,
too-? Capital.! Now. I will send for Clara, and
music shall teach us the truth, so beautifully em-
bodied in that inimitable line of Lonf4low,
'Behind the cloud:is the sunstillshining.'
I would rather be the author of Longfellow's 'Rainy
Day,' Mr. Mordaunt, than wake up an heir to a for-
tune. I will go for Clara "
"No, aunt," interrupted Bell: "that duty will be
my pleasure. I pronounce you 'Speaker of ~the
House,' and this .arm-chair is appointed for you to
fill."
Gently forcing Mrs. Edgemonte ito t    e seat,
Bell left the room and called Clara. Spig now fol-
lowed song. iBell's spirits seemed suddenly to have
taken a new   en  lMordaunt for once was at fault
1in  i judgment fpoties. lie pictured to himself
Bell won. His -spiritsarose accordingly. ie  ter d

'GEORGE .SCE-LVILLE.


84      GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE. MELVILLE.  85

fully into the pleasures of the hour, and became, as
he could whenever he chose, the life of the party.
Clara was' surprised at Bell's vivacity.  Mordaunt
was happy, because he deemed that his chances for
gaining, Bell's hand had risen fifty per cent. Mrs.
Edgemonte talked of the wonderful influence which
music had in dispelling engi , and remarked, that
she thought herself entitled to a vote of thanks from
the entire company. How was it with Bell? Her
spirits were the result of a final judgment in.regard
to Mr. Mordaunt's proposal. The conversation with
her brother, his prompt advice and coinciding opin-
ion, had relieved her mind of the indefinable fear
which had hitherto controlled her. Mordaunt's sud-
den renewal of the subject had displeased her. She
regarded it in the light of assumption. His very
language betrayed to her nice perception that, under
seeming humility, the roots of bold and haughty
arrogance existed, ready to germinate and choke out
the assumed devotion. The rain now fell in torrents.
Mrs. Edgemonte had warned the young ladies that
it was nearly time for the evening meal. Clara and
Bell had just concluded a beautiful duet. Mr. Mor-
daunt was. lavish in his praises of the sentiment,
music, :and execution, when Frederick 'Mortimer
entered the room.
"Lively again at last, Bell? Come, give us another
song," said Fred.
" Can't possibly. It is time to prepare for the tea-
table;" replied Bell.
"That is such an unpoetical excuse I cannot ac-
cept it ;" and Fred insisted on the song..
The young ladies gratified him, but this time at
the expense of an extra accompaniment ; for, before

K

they had concluded the last verse, the gong sounded
the hour for tea.
"That gong makes the same impression on the
music. as the rain, this afternoon, has made upon my
spirits," said Fred-" a damper in each instance."
"Bell," said Clara, looking out of the window,
"there is no sign of clear weather."
" It pours," remarked Fred, looking significantly
at his sister. "Will you attend the party to-night ?"
Mordaunt almost- held his breath to hear Bell's
answer to this question. Bell, fixing her eye upon
Mordaunt, with a quiet but expressive smile, re-
marked-
"I shall brave the Storm King's power, and do my
best to shine at Miss Blackwood's. Mr. Mordaunt,
if the weather is too severe for you, my father will
attend to all my wants."
" By no means, Miss Mortimer. I cannot resign
the privilege of. accompanying you, as arranged," re-
plied Mordaunt, in an even tone of voice, which be-
trayed nothing of the whirling torrent of passion
which had been set in motion by Bell's remark.
Iordaunt then recalled his words, before Mrs. Edge-
monte had so inopportunely interrupted him. He
saw that Bell had read his thoughts without listening
to his words. He saw, too, that he had committed a
serious error in policy, and awakened in Bell a con-
tempt for himself. To any man not controlled by
the Christian virtues, contempt breeds dislike. To
a man of Mordaunt's pride and self-love, contempt
awakens to life a hatred which knows not fatigue, and
spares not expense ; when foiled, rises stronger from
the unwilling respite to mount the wild war steed
of a more craftypolicy,; again and again to shun the


0 BIG ^ E  L ,vIL'

eneumter, until the victim is within a  ure grasp
Then it gives no quarter, unless it be to sip the
vWeets of revenge in the cup of lingering torment.
Tea over, Fred    sought Bell's apartment.    Re
learned from her all that had passed, and resolved to
become himself his sister's attendant. Clara entered
and asked him about the arrangements.
"Bell, Mr. (Griswold, Mordaunt, and my humble
self," replied Fred, "will make one carriage load.
Clara and Mr. Melville may form the second; though
I don't exactly fancy giving Mr. Melville so much to
be proud of as a ride solus with, so much natural
loveliness. But some men are born lucky; and ti
time the old saw applies to this youth collegiate.
Stop ! stop, Clara! Don't pull my ears, hair, whisk-
ers; no, ned nor       Well, if you' don't like the
arrangement, take that (stealing a kiss from his beau-
tiful cousin) as your only consolation Against being
forced to ride alone with a young man who wears
the impress of true American nobility. Hem! Can't
you give me another kiss, Clara, for my eloquence?
It's due! Well, if you 'won't, you-won't; and there's
the end on't.'    And he left the young ladies to
make their toilet.
Fred's arrangement was fully carried out.    Not-
withstanding the storm, Miss Blackwood's house
as  well filled. Bell Mortimer was 'decidedly the
most beautiful woman in the room (we like that good
old-fashioned title, and respect "Old Bullion's "*
 HON. ThOMS  B'ToN,of Missouri, better -known by the title
eiven him in the text, in a speech, once said,*that the term "lady"
asnot the Bible; giving it as a reason why he preferred the title
woman."  A young lady proved to him that It occuired in the Sible
no less thantwelve times.

GEOIEGZ MELVILLE.
judgment about the term "lady," the yorhg lady,
and the Bible, to the contrary, notwithstanding):
The entree into the parlors being successfully ac-
complished, as the dancing had not commenced, the
hotel party became a little separated. Miss Black-
wood, feeling that Mr. Mordaunt was one who
demanded at her hands especial attention, as the
intinlate friend and travelling companion of a Aistin-
guished statesman, became somewhat excessive m
her attentions to him. Some further trifling circuim-
stances brought Mr. Melville and Miss Mortimer
together. At this instant, the music. began a qua-
drille, Mordaunt being still engaged by aMiss Black-
wood.
"I see Mr. Mordaunt will probably not claim you
for this dance, Miss' Mortimer. Will you accept so
poor a partner as I am able to offer ?" said Melville.
" With pleasure, sir," said Bell, gently lifting the
folds of her dress, and placing her hand upon Mel-
ville's arm.
Melville was at that moment envied by half the
gentlemen in the room.
"Excuse me, if you please, Miss Blackwood, Miss
Mortimer will be waiting for me, to go through this
quadrille," said Mordaunt.
"Certainly, Mr. Mordaunt," replied Miss Black-
wood, her lip curling slightly as, at the same instant,
she recognized Bell's movements with Melville.
Before Mordaunt' could turn and address Bell, the
dance had commenced. Clara was also dancing, with
Mr. Griswold in- another set. Returning, therefore,
to Miss Blackwood, Mordaunt endeavored to engage
her in conversation. She was, in terse phrase, dis-
tantly polite: monosyllabic, with an occasional smile

3r


88          GEORGE MELVILLE.
for him, and full of vivacity and attention for several
Other gentlemen- 'who surrounded hers Her senti-
ments in regard to his position in the Mortimer
family had undergone a sudden revolution, and she
was not sufficiently practised to know that to act
well her part as .hostess, was to make everybody
pleased with themselves. Neither of these results,
at any other time, would have caused a ripple on
Mr. Mordaunt's temper.. Now they produced the
calm before the storm. Where his revenge would
point, he did not yet know.
"She shall learn and feel the power of James
Mordaunt !" hissed between his teeth, as he watched
~Bell gracefully threading her way through the qua-
drille.

GEORG-E MELVILLE.

89

f1

XIV.fn
Various things material both to the Story and the Reader-The Cat-
fish Railroad Scheme.
MORDAUNT, on returning to the hotel, wrote a long
letter to his aunt before he slept.        He gave her, in
detail, all that had occurred.       He added, also, what
the reader has yet to learn, that he had made Mrs.
Mortimer a confidant ; that she furthered h's plan-;
that through her he had learned that Mr. Mortimer
would do     all in his power to make the issue of his
suit successful.    In reply to this letter, three days
after he received the following note :
No. - FIFTH AVENUE, NEw YORK, Augu8t 18th, 18-.-
MY DEAR JAMES:
Your letters of the ---inst., from Aurora, and of the -
inst., from Niagara, are received.  You are in trouble, and not by
any fault of commission on your part that I can now perceive. Bell
has evidently made her brother a confidant. You must get hidp out
of your way. Clara Edgemonte is your bitter enemy, from some pre-
vious knowledge of you. Find out hei- secret if possible. You will
then be able to countermine any efforts she may make to prejudice
Bell against you. 'Melville may be attracted by your fawn. Neglect
no opportunity to find his weak points, and show him up. Tom Gris-
wold may be of use to you. Play the dear friend with him; draw
him into your confidence until you can obtain from him the secret
little misdeeds which bften surround such gay young men as is Mel-
ville. I shall visit Aurora infue time. The real battle, I am satis-
fied, will be against George Melville. All are well at home.
In haste. -Your affectionate aunt,
ARAH E. TRYOIN.

,  .

0

0

/.'


00          GEORGE MELTILLE.
Mordauint read and re-read this note. The idea
that, Bell had conceived an interest for Melville was
the point in it which caused him the severest thought.
His reflections took the following turn:
"'Melville is a mere youy-not much.r senior-
just Qut of his junior year in colle g -evidently no
student. Bell must wait years before he can afford
to marry, if his father designs him foreither of the
professions. But Aunt Sarah's words ar   let me
see," and taking up her note for the twentiethliime,
he repeated the.following sentence:
"The real battle, I am satisfled, will be against
George Melville."  Throwing himself back in his
chair, and covering his face with both hands, Mor-
daunt: sat some time in deep thought. He recalled
every word, look, action, which had passed between
Bell and Melville. The result seemed to end in=
absolute proof that his aunt was wrong. Arising, he
said aloud:
" Aunt Sarah, for once, is wrong. It is the first
time she has erred since I have known her; therefore
I shall watch. Melville appears to be an unoffending
youth. For all I yet know, we may be friends. But
if she scorns my love to bask in his smiles, my re-
venge shalfprove sweeter than lIve's dalliance, even
with Bell Mortimer ;" and he suddenly arose, and
walkedseveral times heavily and proudly across the
rooxi, with head thrown back, and lip firmly com-
pressed.
"Now for a cigar; a stroll, -and-.  thought."
Taking the. path which leads to Goat Island,'he
wandered along, unheeding the various knots of
visitors which he met, representatives of every state
and eline.. A~t this time, Niagara was surfeited with

GEORGE MELVILtE.
travellers. Ilie walked on, unmindful of time or
fatigue, until the gath'eri darkness caused him to
look at his watch ; it was fifteen minutes after eight.
He was now within a short distance of the very
bench where first he had declared his love to Bell.
As. he gradually approached the spot, a voice pro-
nounced the following words:
"My dear-language "
The remainder of the sentence was lost. Stopping,
he listened more attentively, when a voice, which he
instantly recognized- as Bell Mortimer's, spoke, and
evidently with much agitation. The following words
were all he could hear distinctly:
-" to love  Rvilain-precaution1"
The first voice, which Mordaunt now recognized to
be Griswold's, again spoke. Mordaunt heard the
following:
" Oh, Miss Mortimer ! I warmly love--most dearly
love
This was replied to by Bell. Mordant again
heard but part of the sentence:
" work of a higher power. But we had better
return. Suppose you 'dismiss the carriage. I pro-
pose a walk home."
"With pleasure," replied Griswold.
Mordaunt walked noiselessly in a direction to
avoid what he now deemed to be the two lovers.
Bell's pleasure on the rainy afternoon; hert determi-
nation to go through a violent storm .rather than
spend an evening with himself; her conduct at the
party-all was now explained, as he thought.' Aunt
Sarah was wrongI The real battle, I am now sati-
fed, will be with Grirwold," said he.
Eaily the subsequent morning, Frederick Mortiiner


GEORGE MELVILLE.

93

and James Mordaunt met in the shaving-saloon of
the, hotel.
"Good morning, Mordaunt," said Fred.
"Good morning, Mortimer," replied Mordaunt.
a  have beaten you on the .course this morning by
a .kave, you perceive."
" Yes," said Mordaunt, "and I perceive' also that
it has been a close shave."
"Thattis owing to getting wide awake before you,
Mr. Mordaunt-. Always have been an early riser
whenever I failed to sleep late. But what has ar-
roused you thus early ?"
" I am bound for New York," replied Mordaunt.
"It is impossible to believe that," said Fred.
"There are two rides this day, and one pic-nic; to-
morrow a trip! in the 'Maid of the Mist,' and a visit
to 'Table Ro;' evening at Mrs. Jones's---the Mrs.
Jones's. Go, if you dare, sir."
"And 'dare' I must; for I am the forlorn hope;
stormers, reserve column, sappers and miners, etc.,
etc.-in fact, the whole army-and New York is the
breach. Business, Mr. Mortimer, before pleasure "
Yes," interrupted Fred, " as. the old deacon,
hoeing corn while his neighbors were attending his
wife's funeral, once quietly remarked. I wonder if
the deacon, after he had cleared the weeds from the
corn-field, was decent enough to sport one for
m7ourn'ilng."
"Ie ought to have done so," said Mordaunt, "for
a wife who succeeded in making her husband remem-
ber her so affectionately, ought to have been em-
balmed. The example of Socrates, in his treatment
of Xantippe, puts many a man to blush for scolding
the woman he has sworn to cherish."

"

Mordaunt, that !day, took the earliest train en route
for New York. We will follow him.
"Are you certain, James, that Tom Griswold has
proposed for, and been accepted by, Bell Mortimer ?"
"Y es."
"What is the proof, James ?"
"My own ears, and my own eyes-two very trusty
servants. The carriage was dismissed. They walked
to the hotel. When I made my proposal, in the
same place, Bell pretended to be terribly frightened
-rode home-would not speak, and all thatnon-
sense.
"Well, Griswold is not so large game, and, conse-
quently, not as worthy your steel; but, if you don't
get the fair Bell just now, by postponing any con-
summation of Griswold's desires, you will gain time
to fight the battle of Cupid with Miss Bell. Gris-
wold is now in college. He must graduate. You
have thus one year. He must study a profession.
Two more years from   that, at least.  Griswold's
father, you say, is worth about two hundred thou-
sand, or thereabouts. Three years-three years-let
me consider. Yes, that's your only way. When the
three years are up, James, Griswold's father, must be
a bankrupt."
"That will do! By Jove! and a bankrupt he
shall be, in less time than that. Aunt Sarah, here's
the sweetest kiss I ever gave you yet."
"Tell me your plan," replied Mrs. Tryon.
'K It is not matured sufficiently. The outlines are
as follows: he has been a merchant.; thinks 'he
knows Wall street; buys stocky freely; trustiIimpli=
citly in the firm of Wight &amp; Pierce, stock-brokers.

c'' 'S        ai'.f4
k"
is           -
t
-X          ,
.      'Y
i,
" tF
^  )t
If.
1       f .

'.    .

GEORGE MELVILLE.


&amp;GEO'RGE MELVILLE.
Wright &amp; Pierce' are honest and "sharp; not: so
skillful, however, but that, in the state of high'pres-
sure which governs the stock-market from time to
time, a cat-fish railroad security may be exhibited in
the light of a safe investmnn t. 'Power &amp; Loftus'
are also stock-brokers who saumd fair, but have easy
consciences. Through them the proposals shall
reach Griswold. 'Wright &amp; Pierce,' at Griswold's
request, will investigate, of course, and give their
opinion. Being favorable, Griswold will catch at
the bait, and go to smash."
"Yes, but the railroad; where is that ?"
"That is the main spoke in the wheel, good aunt,
and my part, of the work. It will take one or two
years of long and patient head-work for me to bring
that into a fixed fact: I shall endeavor to manage
the whole affair so as to make a profitable result for
myself. In that case, revenge will become durable
as gold."
"Very well," said his aunt. "In the interim, you
must play the mournful, discon8olate, rejected suitor.
Silent. proofs of love's enduring, throbbing, thrilling,
absorbing pathos, must be scattered in Bell's path-
way. Finally, the ring of your, praises as a rising
lawyer, an able speaker, a man of influence, must be
made to sound distinctly in the ears of Hon. B. F.
Mortimer."
Mordant having marked out his course, entered
immediately upon the plans necessary to a successful,
result. He. projected a railroad from the village of
P., for one of the termini, to a beautiful bay on
the southern shore of Lake Ontario, for the other.
ItWas to cross the New York Central Railroad, at
thcity of --. The plan of' this roadwas based in

a ORGE MELVILLE..

95"_

?u=9

is

wisdom. There was sufficient necessity for the road.
Once built, it must pay a good per cent. on the
cost. But Mordaunt well knew that before the road
could be constructed, every dollar invested in the
original securities of the company, would be irre-
trievpbly lost.
HQ now visited nearly every town on the main/
routes in southern and western New York. He
made himself practically familiar with their localities,
wants, and resources. Having matured his project,
he next opened negotiations with the principal
moneyed men, resident in the counties through
which the road was to pass. Gaining their favor in
its behalf, he enlisted the members of the press along
the line to present the subject to the people. In a
short time the bait took ; every man, woman, and
even child old enough to lisp railroad was talking
about the immense value which the railroad would
add to the land; ambitious young ladies asked pa for
a little more expensive dresses on the strength of the
rise; and foolish pas actually extended their family
expenses a couple of hundred or more per annum.
The whole community went railroad mad. Great
railroad mass meetings were held by the people.
Mordaunt was careful, however, never to have his
name appear in any of the public calls. His plea
with the managing gentlemen was, "Oh, I am no
speaker. I promise, gentlemen; to take $300,000
first securitiesupon the road, as soon as you have
a subscription list of an .equal amount. You can
have my bond for the fulfillment of that promise
with any sureties you. may ask."
The bond was duly prepared. Mordaunt was
playing a bold game ; but he had fully calculated

r 1


96        0 oiGa- MELVIL)Ltd..O~EMLIL

his chances. With his aunt's name as security for
his sureties, he had no difficulty in obtaining respon-
sible names. Everything being fully ripe for starting
the project, he applied to the legislature for a charter.
For want of a better alias, for it will not suit our
purpose to give the true name of this railroad com-
pany, as its present interests may be seriously
affected by thus making an expos of its early history,
we shall call it "Tun NEw YoRK CATFISH RAILROAD
Co." Under that name it was duly chartered by the
legislature. The stock list was rapidly filled up.
The city of  -applied to the legislature for an acf
authorizing it to loan its credit to the road. By this
means the company filled up the required $300,000.
Before this was accomplished, however, the work of
surveying, grading, etc., had been commenced, and
steadily prosecuted. At this time, not a voice in
any county, through which the road passed, could.
be found to decry, or even doubt the success of the
road. Land had risen twenty-five per cent. in value,
and some sales had actually been consummated at,
frightfully fabulous prices. Mordaunt carefully used
every influence to obtain the assistance of the New
York city press. Without that potent engine he
well knew he stood little chance of disposing of his
$300,000 worth of the stock.
The time came at last for him to fulfill the condi-
tions of his bond. He nerved himself to the task.
The bonds of the company were made out. He wished
to throw 1tie odium of the final collapse off from his
holders, and accomplish the ruin of James H. Gris-
wold.

xv.
Ahead-Back again.
Two years had passed since Mordaunt first started
upon his scheme of revenge. During that time he
had made frequent visits at Aurora; had twice ven-
tured to press his suit with Bell. Mr. Mortimer had
become interested in the railroad scheme, and had
invested .a small sum in the stock. He used every
argument in his power to. change Bell's decision in
Mordaunt's favor. Mrs. Mortimer was equally his
friend. Bell was inflexibly opposed to him.
Upon two occasions, during the second year, al-
ready mentioned, Mordaunt had met Griswold and
Melville at Mr. Mortimer's residence. Their inter-
course had been characterized by the utmost of seem-
ing friendship. Rides, sailing parties, pic-nics, etc.
etc., well known as among the amusements of the
country, had been enjoyed together in profusion,
without an exhibition .of the slightest trace of that
revenge which prompted James Mordaunt's every
thought. Mr. Edgemonte, with his wife and daugh-
ter Clara, were in Europe. Thomas Griswold was
reading law with a well known firm in New York
city.. George Melville was studying medicine at
Pittsfield, Mass.
Up to this time, Mordaunt had never intimated to

4

VF Q    MELVILLE"

t


98          GORGE MELVILLE.
Bell's parents that Griswold was her accepted lover
In' this he had acted contrary to his aunt's, Mrs.
Tryon's, advice. On several occasions, he had seen
enough to satisfy him, that Griswold was, indeed,
the preferred lover. At all events he could watch..
He could know. By any premature opening- of this
subject to the Mortimers, he would be unable to
bring to bear in his own favor the effect of Mr.: Gris-
wold's bankruptcy  The sowing was nearly ripened
for the harvest. One month was to elapse ere. he
would be called upon to fulfill his contract with the
"New York Catfish Railroad Company."
"Now, aunt, the field is ripened for the sickle; I
start for Aurora to-morrow, in the evening train. You
are to accompany me, according to promise. We shall
stop at the city of Auburn one day. I desire to visit
the 'Auburn State Prisoln.'"
"Very well; that is all satisfactory. I shall be
ready and willing. You well know, my dear James,
I live only for your happiness."
While Mordaunt and his aunt are pursuing their
jaunt to the city of Auburn, we will take the reader
back to Goat Island, at Niagara:
lIt was evening of the day subsequent to Mr. iMor-
daunt's departure for New York, after his interview
with Frederick Mortimer, in the barber's saloon.
A carriage was slowly passing through the various.
winding paths of that island. Within it was seated
a beautiful young lady. Her face, wreathed with
smiles of sunshine, gave token of happy thought; the
rich blood mounted from-her beating heart, causing
the crimson, tell-tale blushes to reveal the proud af-
fection with which she gazes upon him to whom s)1e

}f
4.I
t4

GEORGE 'MELVILLE.                99
has given her maiden heart, accompanying the gift
with its pure and truthful devotion. Her fair white
hand, freed from its tiny silken glove, was gently
held by Thomas Griswold. Around her beautiful
form his arm had gently entwined, and once again
he fondly, ardently pressed the lovely being to his
bosom, sealing anew his plighted vows.
"Dearest, dearest Clara, how sweet this cup of
happiness after so long a separation ! May kind
Heaven grant that nothing shall ever disturb the
quiet joy which now fills our hearts! How strange
our meeting ! I wrote you from Clinton, that duty
called me to accompany my friend Melville.- He has
a noble heart. His health was failing, and go upon
this Quixotic adventure without me, he would not.
I had a sore trial between love and duty. His father
wrote, entreating- me to accompany his son. Duty
won the battle, and I wrote to you that we could not
meet until the holidays."
."I wrote, dear Thomas, asking you to meet me
here. That letter, with four pages of foolish affec-
tion, awaits, your entrance upon senior dignity."
"The dignity has not come yet ; true. I must not
'forget that fact," said Griswold, fondly pressing his
beautiful prize again to his bosom.
This scene is too sacred to be further revealed.
Now that the reader has learned Clara's and Gris-
wold's secret, we ask as an especial favor that it be kept
a secret ; at least please, do not inform any of the per-
sonages who figure in these pages. Such a revelation
might create infinite mischief.


100    GEORGE MELVILLE.E

XVI.
Who is Uncle Sam ?-Syracuse--Camillus-Junction-Auburn-A
New York Lawyer obtains a Case (a hard one).
" Tm old sinner, Jim, has burnt "up his den, and
removed all traces. There's wagon tracks goin' to-
wards the woods. -P'raps he ain't fur off."
"What's best to be done, Bill ?"
Wal, I dunno, Ike, We might sarch the woods
fur the trail, Injun fashion;' but ef we don't find him,
the laugh'll be agin us."
"Ef we do, Bill, the prase won't amount to straws.
Let's kind ar look, then go home. Ef we find any
track, let's see where it'll come to, and then, when
the reward is offered, we'll stand a-pooty fair chance
ov makin' a strike."
The above dishonest determination seemed to suit
two worthies who carried the warrants of arrest
against the bodies of John Halter, and his wife Sally
Halter, the tavern-keeping friends of Melville and
Griswold, Bob Shank, alias William Tibbles, and
James Strigham, the two wounded men, who at this
moment were groaning in the cave. After searching
the woods a short time, the constables came upon the
wagon track, where it had entered the wood. Care-
fullyfollowing it, they traced the route of the robbers,
for sinch we may as well call them, to the cave. After

1a
tI i
.4
A54

being fully satisfied that Halter would not move very
soon, they left the wood without making an arrest.
"We've treed the coons, Ike, and they'll stay
treed for awhile. Now, let's wait 'till a reward's pf-
fered," said the constable called Bill.
Such a specimen of dishonesty on the part of consta-
bles in the United States we say, with pride, is rare.
The instance above recorded has had, however, its
foundation in fact. We believe the remark will be
within bounds, that honesty, efficiency, and prompti-
tude characterize the American police. When it is
remembered that the people rule in America, that
the institutions of the country admit no landed mono-
polies, that the agriculturist who owns ten, twenty, fif-
ty, or a hundred acres, and their name is legion, holds
equal power with him who can count his millions, the
necessity for a police diminishes. Every land-holder is:
in one sense a policeman. He is a law-abiding -citi-
zen. He knows that his individual sovereignty is
contravened whenever a villain escapes punishment.
The great world abroad do not comprehend America.
They cannot yet see the basis upon which her stabi-
lity rests. Uncle Sam is a myth-a sprite-a wraith.
He has placed his sons and daughters in a mighty
caldron, into which a steady stream from the foun-
tain of knowledge continually is running. True,
fiery ambition, the scorching heat of contending pas-
sion, the seething throes of jarring principle, whenever
the quadrennial fires arouse the mass to a boiling tem-
perature, rise upon the surface, simmering, snapping,
spiteful; but where the crisis seems to be fearful,
" Uncle Sam" callsup "Mose," who,. mounting his
"machine," orders the suction to be set in the reser-
voir of coinmon sense, and seizing his trumpet,

GEORGE MELPILLE.    1Q

1


GEORGE MELVILLE-                               E

shouts; "Play away, No. 1!"    By the time the
last departing steamer has borne the news of fearful
commotion to luxurious halls, graced by prince, king,
and emperor, " Mose" has put the fire out, and
stands, with hat awry, half-drawn over his eyes, reu-
shirt, pants rolled up, hands in his pockets, telling
"as how No. 4 never wet her hose."
*      *      *      *       *      *
"Where abouts, doctor, is the place you say them
nabs was ?"
" I met them in the woods, about half a mile from
the road. They were making a mark on a tree as if
to help remember some route, or I should have been
seen. As they passed, I heard them say that they
had 'treed the coons.'"
"That means me, doctor. The cave must be 'vac-
uated. Thy've followed the wagon track."
Halter left the doctor to examine his patients in
the. cave, and went out himself to look for foot-
marks. He soon traced out the trail of the two con-
stables.
" Here 'tis ; and now, ef they catches this chicken
they's welcome to give him a fancy neck-tie," said
the tavern-keeper in soliloquy.
*      *      *      *      *     *       *
"Good bye, doctor. You'll git a signal at your
house where to find me. It's hard to move them
coves; but right's right, and they's got ter stand it.
Doctor, here's that tother hundred, for you've saved
my whole family from capitulatin' to the inemy on
dishonorable terms this day ; and the money's your'n
by right, on the ground ov extra work extra pay."
The doctor, first taking the offered money, an-
swered

VI
Ii  j

"I cannot accept this, Halter. You have already
paid me more than my bill yet amounts to. Here;
take it back."
" No, siree! Every dollar would rise up in judg-
ment agin me, and say, Why didn't you gin us to
the doctor? that money's all extra! The tother hun-
dred's ready whin the pashunts is konvaleesunt."
After the doctor's departure, Halter set about
making arrangements for leaving the cave. It was
a work surrounded with difficulty; but at present we
have other and more important threads to weave
into the web of this history.
Auburn never should have received the title of
"City." It is a misnomer. The word city carries
with it an idea of great business resource, activity,
and influence. Auburn possesses but one of these
attributes. There are few cities in the United States,
of equal size, which possess greater business. influ-
ence; but it is the influence derived from capital.
Auburn is rather the lovely garden, equally adorned
by nature and art. As a country home for the man
of wealth, it is not surpassed in advantages. This
allusion to a city, which is never visited by the
stranger without similar comment, the reader will
doubtless excuse, even though it is not pertinent to
our tale.
New York has three State institutions for the in-
carceration of criminals. One located at Clinton,
one at Sing Sing, and one at Auburn. The Auburn
State Prison is justly called a model. No expense
has been spared by the State government either
upon judgment or experiment, to bring it into a
state of perfection. Not that all judgment has been"
wise, or all experiment successful ; but that the

102

103

GfEORGE MELVILLE.


104         GEORGE MELvI LLE.
policy of the State government has been guided to
meet the wishes of popular sentiment. The people
of New York have so often expressed their will in
favor of conducting the punishment of criminals upon
an enlarged policy, that their public servants have
not been deaf to their commands. This needs no
better or- more convincing proof than the record
afforded by her session laws. But this history has
only to do with the Auburn State Prison.
*      *      *      *     :a     *       -a
"Those vats yonder, aunt, are part of the great
Syracuse salt works. It is said that all that is.neces-
sary to obtain salt water, for miles around, in Salina
and Syracuse, is to bore a hole into the earth some
hundred feet, or more or less, and the briny water
comes out, clear and sparkling."
"That is remarkable. But how far are we from
the city of Auburn, James?"
"About twenty-five miles. Soon passed."
"An hour more of this railroad monotony will use
me up for a week," replied Mrs. Tryon; "but' what
can't bb cured must be endured."'
"'My dearest aunt, you are a philosopher, ipsofac-
to, this time."
"It's necessary to see facts sometimes; and the
'very deed itself' is now crowning me with hyper-
fatigue.- That fact I see clearly."
"Camillus !" shouted the brakeman.'
"A pretty name for a village," added Mrs. Tryon;
but, just now, if it were a paradise, I don't want to
hear the fact. I should be for stopping the train,
considering my mental and physical inquietude."
"HlfWay House !" shouted the brakeman.
"Why, how we fly! At this rate, we shall see

GEO GE M.ELVILLE.

I1

105

Auburn without expending our strength, after all,"
said Mrs. Tryon, looking out of the car window, at a
huge pile of wood, which constituted height, length,
breadth, and depth of the picture before her. "The
monarchs of the forests, James, which once so mag-
nificently adorned the view, now meanly obstruct it.
'The proud must have a fall.'"
It would have been well for this lady had she, at
that instant, listened to the "still small voice" which
caused her for a moment to wander over the past;
but, repressing a rising sigh, she threw off the
Heaven-sent monitor, and once more an evil spirit
wreathed her face with smiles.
"The Junction !" shouted-the brakeman.
"The name of this place is a word of good omen,
James."
"Yes, dearest aunt, I accept it such, but shall,
nevertheless, put my shoulder to the wheel before
framing a prayer for Jupiter."
1" Right," said his aunt, with a complacent smile.
" Auburn !" shouted the brakeman.
"Good !" responded Mrs. Tryon.     "Give 'the
brakeman my thanks ;" and she rose from her seat,
as the motion of the car ceased.
"Now, dear aunt, for some comfort."
In a short time Mrs. Tryon was reclining upon a
sofa in her room at the hotel.
"Send up a little sherry wine, James; this tire-
someness is not natural with me."
"With pleasure, dearest aunt," said Mordaunt,
glad at something to do to bring back his aunt's
spirits; and he left the room.
"Here, mother mine, is a cup which will rival the
Lachryma  Christi that Byron gave to the ; great
5*


GEOR GE MELVLLE.0

O'Doherty, at their chance meeting in Italy. It is
not sherry, but it is excellent madeira, or I am no
judge.  I see Mr. Mortimer's name is on the re-
gister."
" What ! is he in Auburn ?" said Mrs. Tryon. "I
must arouse from this lethargy. Give me another
glass of madeira. There," said she, setting the wine-
glass upon the table, "now unlock my trunks, and
evacuate the premises, sir."
Mordaunt left his aunt to her toilet, and,'retiring
to his room, wrote several letters of a business cha-
racter. He was thus engaged, when a servant
brought word from his aunt that Mr. Mortimer was
with hers
The greeting between Mordaunt and Mr. Morti-
mer was cordial. Mr. Mortimer was already under
many obligations to Mordaunt, in matters pertaining
to both his private and public business. Mordaunt
had improved every opportunity to "act well his
part," in all things relevant to the game he had
started from cover. In a few days the axe would be
laid at the root of the tree. One family would be
ruined.
"Cupid's dart will have sunk deep, if loss of pro-
perty does not tear it from Bell Mortimer's heart,"
thought Mordaunt.
Coexistent with this thought, Mordaunt smiled his,
friendly recognition of Mr. Mortimer's polite atten-
tion to Mrs. Tryon.
"You cannot visit the prison to-morrow, sir."
"(Why not, Mr. Mortimer ?" said Mordaunt.
"Because, as judge at chambers, I shall sign an
order of injunction, pending the decision of which
there must necessarily be a stay of proceedings."

11 ij
Y0
kr
(v vff
T     .Cr
ii.
;33
f      {fir q il.
r    +a.
Ftl
a'!
"r

" Very well, sir. I assure you, frankly, I shall not
advise my fair client to risk a process for 'contempt
of court,'" replied Mordaunt.
" Then I say, very well, sir. We all start for
Aurora at nine o'clock and forty-five minutes to-
morrow. When Mrs. Tryon is duly recruited, we
will make a day of it, and visit the -prison."
" Excellent !" said Mrs. Tryon.
".And what say you, Mr. Mordaunt ?" said Mr.
Mortimer.
"That there will be no necessity for the order of
injunction to issue," replied Mordaunt.
Early the following day, while Mordaunt was
dressing for his breakfast, a servant brought him
word that a man desired to see him.
"Show him up, sir," said Mordaunt.
The door of his room soon received a second
knock.
"Come~ in, sir," said Mordaunt, not going to the
door.
"Good mornin' to ye ! I'se early some, but the
clerk said you was goin' in the nine forty-five train."
"It is true, sir ; but your call is no interruption.
Take a seat, and, if you please, let me know yoqr ,t
object in calling."
" My name, sir, is John Halter.  I've' a leetle
lawin' to do in York, and I didn't know but you'd
do the business up for' me. To do it, though, you'll
hev to let the company go to-day, and stay here till
to-morrow."
" I am afraid, in that case, Iwould not suityoi
sir," replied Mordaunt. " I cannot very well post
pone going to-day."
At this moment, Halter passed :his right aaud

t

106

I07

GEOtGE MELVILLE.


108      GE"ORGE MELVILLE. GL

across his forehead twice, having the thumb thrust
between tyhe .second and third fingers. Mordaunit
started for an instant, but immediately laid his right
hand, with open palm, upon his left breast. Halter
now, with a smile upon his countenance, pronounced
the Latin word, "Experimentum."
Mordaunt, assuming a friendly smile, answered to
this, "Crucis."  Together they mean "a double
test."  He then took Halter by the right hand,
grasping with his own third and fourth fingers the
third and fourth fingers of Halter's hand. Halter
responded by grasping Mordaunt's left hand in a-
similar way, and pointing, with the index finger of
his right hand, towards heaven.
"We may converse freely, Mr. Halter,"- said Mor-
daunt.
"P'raps you'd be kurus to know as how I know'd
you fur one ov the 'Ever Faithful,'." said Halter,
dropping his voice to a whisper scarcely audible, and
gazing cautiously around the room.
"No, sir, not at all. The 'Ever Faithful' have
ears and hands, but they ask no useless questions.
How can an Ever Faithful help his brother? You
know probably my only connection with the Society'
is as its counsellor and legal adviser in the city of
New York."
"Yes. Well, my business is about two young men
iu New York. They shot two ov our best men about
two years ago, and druv me out o' house and home.
Bob Shank is one on 'em. He wants to find the
'haps. As they's big-bugs, he thought you'd know
%."
"What are their names ?" said Mordaunt.
"Thomas Griswold and George Melville."

kp7 y1
k

Mordaunt was startled at' this unexpected answer.
He instantly determined to hear more, before reveal-
ing his acquaintance with-them. Halter detailed all
the facts, which the reader already knows. In con-
clusion, he said-
"9Bob Shank swears them fellers shall pay for the
cold comfort they give him and Stringham."
"And he is right," said Mordaunt. "Such unne-
cessary shooting ought to be avenged."
Mordaunt saw here a scheme of revenge which he
thought he could foster and guide, without making
himself liable in any way, or his hand being seen in it.
The gong sounded for breakfast.
."I can help your friend in this matter, and will
do so. He is in no hurry. Give me a little time,
say a month or two, and I will give him a scheme
worth his steel."
"That's 'nuff sed."
"Request Bob Shank to call upon me at New
York. Give him this card, and tell him to show it
to me when he calls. My address is upon it. I see
no necessity for remaining over to-day."
" Oh, that's jest a quarter ov my business. Iv'e
got a case for you to defend in New York. There's
a feller as has been nabbed. He's in the Tombs.
He isn't a member ov the order. I've had him in
trainin' now three years, and whin he was twenty-
one I was goin' to hey him initiated. . Ef I don't see
to him, he's got no friends."
"He must be attended to, Mr. Halter. I shall
remain in Auburn. Such business is always first
with me."
"Good! your a trump, and no mistake. I'll go
now."

4

m            "
GEORGE MELVILLE.     109


110    GEORGE MELvILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE.  111

"Come to my room after breakfast,"'replied Mor-
dauit, as Halter was retiring.
Mrs: Tryon went to Aurora in company with Mr.
Mortimer. -NMordaunt was .closeted all day with Hal-
ter, getting at and arranging the facts necessary to
defend a young villain incarcerated in the Tombs at
New York, for the criie of arson. It was a difficult
case, but Mordaunt was the man for a difficulty.
With his connections in a society of scoundrels, sub-
ornation of perjury was an easy task.
The following day, as Mordaunt stepped upon the
platform of a car for the purpose of going to Aurora,.
he met Thomas Griswold.
The greetings of old friendship passed between
them.
"Another friend of yours is in the train, Mr. Mor-
daunt," said Griswold.
" AhI1 who is'it ?" asked Mordaunt.
"George Melville," said Griswold.
"Good! I must shake his hand," remarked Mor-
daunt. "I have often recalled the days of Niagara,
and our subsequent meetings have been very agree-
able, at least on my part."
" He is not alone," Mr. Mordaunt!
"No'? Who are his companions ?" asked Mor-
daunt.:
"A sister, and a young lady cousin."
"Where are they going ?"
"To Aurora. They are not expected $"
"What is the cousin's name '" said Mordaunt.
"cFlorence Melwood. She resides on the island,
Martha's Vineyard. She is thought to be a lovely
girl. But where are you bound, Mr. Mordaunt?
"To Aurora."

Griswold did not reply, good! Clara Edgemonte
had shown him Mordaunt's true character, as far as
she knew   it.  Mordaunt 'noticed Griswold's ill-
dissembled coldness, and immediately set down for
the cause that Bell Mortimer had revealed to him
that he was a suitor for her hand.
"When have you seen Mr. M[ortimer ?" inquired
Griswold.
"Met him at Auburn, yesterday."
"Where did he go ?"
" To Aurora. We shall find him there. The
family are all at home, I believe."
Griswold now returned to his friends, accompanied
by Mordaunt.

0

r
3      {.
a
',
     {
7
T
'4
ti
4


112     GEORGE MELVILLE.

XVII.
The Dinner Party at Aurora-The Telegram--Mrs. Tryon's Glance.
"TmE dinner's on the table,'said an old colored
woman, named Bess, to Mrs. Mortimer. Bess had
been so long a servant in the Mortimer family, and
had always directed the' arrangements of the table,
that her presence was now considered indispensable
to insure success in the arduous duties of the dining-
room.
"Ladies and gentlemen, that is all the bell we
ever have rung in our family.; and, as I have learned
by experience to know that Bess's quiet information
is really meant as a peremptory order, I shall have
to request you to immediate obedience."
The dinner party at Mrs. Mortimer's, that day, was
a brilliant affair. The persons interested in it were
(we give their names as the entrie was accomplished)
Mr. Melville and Mrs. Mortimer; Mr. Mortimer and
Mrs. Tryon; Mr. Mordaunt and Bell Mortimer;' Mr.'
Griswold and Miss Melville:; Mr. Fred Mortimer
and Miss Melwood; ten in all.
Dinner parties are the same the world over. Mrs.
Tryon was here inR her element. She determined not
to dufer the opportunity to pass without making an
impression. Nor did she fail. Bell Mortimer was
carried captive by her 'brilliant wit, and quickness at

GEORGE' MELVILLE.113
repartee, polished by an unexpected store of general
information. Bell felt proud of her acquaintance,
and, unconsciously yielded to her a higher respect, if
esteem would not be the more truthful term, than at
any time before. Mordaunt read Bells thoughts,
and exerted himself to eclipse even the brilliancy of.
his .aunt. In this he could and would have suc-
ceeded, but 'for an interruption.
" A gentle'um is in the parlor to see Misser Mor-
daunt," said Bess.
"Excuse me Mrs. Mortimer, if you please," said
Mordaunt.
"C ertainly, sir. Shall not Bess ask for his
name
"No,I thank you. I will not trouble her," re-
plied Mordaunt.
"You wish to see Mr. Mordaunt, sir ?" said Mor-
daunt, addressing a young man, apparently about
nineteen or twenty years of age.
" Yes, sir ! There- is a ' telegraph dispatch re-
ceived at Auburn this morning after you left. As it
was of an important character, the telegraph operator
concluded to send it to Aurora without delay.
- "I am very much obliged, sir," replied Mordaunt,
breaking open the envelope.
He read the following:
"tNo. - WALL STREET, N. Y., 18---.
"To JAMES MORDAUNT, ESQ.
"Lose no time in closing with the company. Be in New York the
15th without fail, and bring the bonds.
"Signed,                    POWER &amp; LoFTUS."
It was the 13th instant. The stock certificates to

4~


114     GEORGE MELVILLE.

115

GEORGE MELVILLE.

the amount of $300,000 were already in Mordaunt's
possession.
"What time does the afternoon train for New York
pass through Auburn ?" asked Mordaunt of the tele-
graph messenger.
" Four o'clock andfiffty minutes," was the reply.
"Is your horse fast ?" said Mordaunt.
"Yes sir," was the reply.
" Can I ride with you to Auburn?" asked Mor-
daunt.
"With pleasure, sir. I can bring you in time for
the train, if we start immediately," said the messen-
ger, looking at his watch.
Mordaunt ran to his room, hastily packed his valise,
and catching up his overcoat, returned to the parlor.
"Put those in the buggy, and I will be with you
in a moment," said he to the messenger.
Going next to the dining-room, he requested his
aunt's presence in the parlor.
"K[ must go immediately to New York, Aunt
Sarah.  This dispatch will explain why. Burn it
after you have read it. You need no instructions.
Good bye. Expect me on Saturday or Monday."
Saying this he departed.
"Does your nephew not return to finish his din-
ner, Mrs. Tryon ?" said Mrs. Mortimer.
"No. He has already left for Auburn, en route
for New York. His presence is demanded there on
the 15th. He will' return to Aurora Saturday or
Monday.
"A sudden departure, truly," said Mr. Mortirner.
"Very sudden," said Mrs. Mortimer.
"Sudden and cool," said Griswold. "Business
might take a ride over Niagara Falls before -

would fee a railroad company at the expense of a
dinner."
Mrs. Tryon cast a quick glance at Griswold to dis-
cover if there was any double meaning in this chance
remark. Griswold noticed the glance.; but it made
no lasting impression upon him. He afterwards
learned how to explain it.

*


116     GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE.    li

Broadway, New York-James Mordaunt, Esq., at his Office in Wall
street-Is he a Married Man?
IT was a warm day in July. Broadway, the street
of New York city, was filled with a swarm of the
wild and sober minded, anxious and sedate, wealthy
and poor, lovely and plain, fashionable and home-
spun, happy and miserable, all classes, climes, and
nations being duly represented. Integrity and vil-
lainy, virtue and vice, momentarily jostled in unknown
contact. At half-past nine, James Mordaunt pulled
the check-string of a Fifth Avenue omnibus, and
alighted from  it opposite .Barclay street, mear the
Astor House. Entering that hotel, he left some let-
ters with the book-keeper, and immediately joined
the throng of business men hurrying to discharge
their various occupations. When opposite. John
street, he was accosted by a man, who- evidently
knew him; but whose face did not seem familiar.
"Mr. Mordaunt,. I believe."
"es, sir, that is my name.".
"I've a little matter of bis'ness with you; and if
you've no objections, I'll go with you to your office."
'My address is No.-- Wall street. You can call
at 11 o'clock. I shall then. be disengaged. for a short
ti:e,'  replied Mordaunt.

"Well, that will do."
At the appointed hour, Mordaunt was greeted. in
his office by the stranger.
Taking him into his private room, he asked his
business.
"I've concluded,-Mr. Mordaunt, that Mary Sanders
has got to have her rights."
"Who are you, sir?" said Mordaunt, quickly, his
face betraying sudden anxiety, becoming flush' and
pale by turns.
"It's of little consequence who I am. All that is
necessary for you to do is to settle twenty thousand
dollars on Mary Mordaunt, alias Mary Sanders, avow
your marriage with her, acknowledge the legitimacy
of your daughter Mary, and you won't be troubled
any more byrme."
"Mary Sanders! avow marriage ! settle twenty
thousand dollars ! acknowledge legitimacy !"  said
Mordaunt, dwelling upon each word, and speaking
in the utmost surprise.
"You can dissemble splendidly, sir ; but I have no
time to waste, as my ship sails on a whaling voyage,
next week," replied his visitor.
"You lie under some strange delusion, sir," replied
Mordaunt, evidently very much agitated.
"Well, if I must I must, that is all. So I will bid
you good morning, and call upon some more honest
counsellor for the necessary redress. Take notice,
young man, justforty-five thousand dollars of as hard
earned money as any master ever lanced out of sperm
whales, in five voyages, will pay lawyers' fees to give
Mary her rights. It isnow four years since Molly
bid her hard-fisted uncle good bye. She was then a
pretty girl, and  jut like bei another. That'smy his=


118    GEORGE MELVILLE.

ter. You've played the game very nice with the girl;
but now you've got her uncle, Joseph Horton, to set-
tle with. For your present comfort in the mutter, I
will add, Rev. John Furnace, who lives at No.-.
Washington street, in the city of Brooklyn, is now
ready to swear to the identity between James Mor-
daunt and a young sailor named Jack Sanders.. Good
morning."
"Good morning, sir," said Nordaunt, with a cool-
ness and suavity which surprised honest Capt.
Joseph Horton. -He had supposed his threats would
frighten Mordaunt ; but he had yet to learn the
character he was dealing with.
About one year before James Mordaunt graduated
from college he made the acquaintance of Mary Wil-
cox. She lived with her mother in a small tenement
in Brooklyn, N.Y. They derived support from their
needle, and the liberality of Joseph Horton, an old
bachelor, Mrs. Wilcox having lost her husband.
Mordaunt first met Miss Wilcox at a small masque-
rade party. He was attracted by her beauty, and
deliberately planned her ruin. In all the visits he
made the poor girl, he went disguised in the charac-
ter of-a common sailor. In the course of a few
months he won Mary's deepest and holiest affection.
Th e mother strenuously opposed Mary's marrying
until, her uncle, Captain Horton, should return; he
being then upon a whaling voyage. Mordaunt
finally persuaded the artless girl to marry him pri-
vately. The marriage was duly performed by Rev.
John Furnace. Mary Wilcox, by this means, became
Mary Sanders, alias Mary Mordaunt. Of course,
Mary's ruin was an easy task. In a few months she
became the deserted wife and young mother. Mor-

daunt bad conducted the marriage so skillfully that
Mary had no trace by which to discover the clergy-
man's residence. The ceremony had been performed
at a small house of ill-repute in New York, hired by
Mordaunt for the purpose. Mordaunt had supposed
the man who performed the ceremony was not a
clergyman. In this he was mistaken, if, indeed, the
laws of New York State required one to make a mar-
riage valid. He had been duly married, and by one
person his villainy was known, and a note made of it.
Two months after the birth of her child, Mary
Sanders, for such we 'shall call her at present, was
walking up Broadway, when, in front of the City
Hospital, she met James Mordaunt, and in the fash-
ionable young mein recognized her husband. Mor-
daunt also recognized her, but coolly walked on.
She ran towards him and caught is arm. He
hastily and roughly shook her off, and mingled in-
stantly with the crowd. Mary, in terrible anguish,
the fot blood coursing through her veins with light-
ning speed, felt her head whirling and her eyes
growing dim. She struggled bravely against this
torrent of bitter woe, but not successfully. She sank
upon the walk unconscious, for the moment, of her
existence. Kind Heaven relieved her soul of all its
sorrows, to prepare it anew to cope with trial. One
eye had seen Mary's grasp upon Mordaunt's arm.
"Jacob, stop the carriage ! I wish that young
woman to ride home with me."
Jacob obeyed the request of Clara Edgemonte.
With some difficulty he penetrated the crowd which
had instantly surrounded the fallen woman. Obtain-
ing the assistance .of some bystanders, using threats
and entreaties, he succeeded in placing her in the

I

G}EORC, E MEL"V:ILLE.             119


1.20 .  GEORGE MELVIL LE.

GE3O2G  MEVL4iE.         1231

carriage. Clara then ordered Jacqb to drive away
from the crowd. When opposite a drug store, she
had some restoratives brought, and Mary soon he-
came conscious.
Jacob now drove rapidly home. Clara used her
kindest efforts to sympathize with the deeply-afflicted
girl; for Mary, although a mother, was yet only
nineteen years of age. By earnest entreaty, Clara
succeeded in winning Mary's confidence. She told
her story, and, in return, learned from  Clara the
name of her destroyer. Clara, at this time, knew
Mordaunt only by sight and 'repute. Mr. and Mrs.
Edgemonte were in Europe. Clara was alone, and
obliged to act for herself in the matter. She ordered
Jacob to, go to Mary's residence and inform her
mother where she was, and that she would not return
until the following day. She also commissioned him
to ask J. S. Taylor, Esq., a lawyer with whom she
knew her father had business connection, to ride up
with him immediately. Clara knew nothing, ofwait-
ing. To will was to do with her. At a late hour in
the afternoon, Mr. Taylor called.  After hearing
Mary's story, he told her the case was almost hope-
less. She might bring an action against Mordaunt
on her own testimony, but it could not be main-
tained without further proof. He advised her to
wait and watch. He took a note of the case, her
address, etc., and gave her his promise that he would
use every exertion to discover the requisite proof.
He sought the students of the college, questioned
them, endeavored to trace Mordaunt on the night of
thy marriage, etc., etc., butall to no purpose.. The
plane of Mordaunt had been so skillfully woven that
they denied unravelling. He finally gave np the

pursuit, and advised Mary to bide her time. In this
condition, the matter had remained up to the hour
when James. Mordaunt so suddenly left Aurora, on
the receipt of Messrs. Power &amp; Loftus' telegraph
dispatch.
4x

22        -        2           .2  --


n2    G RG4E, XLVYXL LE

123

4

XIX.
Rev. John Furnace-The Funeral-The Lawsuit-The Catfish Railroad
Stock at a Premium.
AFTERn Captain Tiorton left James Mordant's
office, he went immediately to J. S. Taylor's law
...
office, and gave Mr. Taylor an account of his inter-
view with Mordaunt.
ie is a cool one," said Mr. Taylor, clipping his
thumb nail with a pen-knife. "We shall have to
bring an aci'on against him. I think, with Rev.
William Furnace's testimony, and the hope kindlel
by this anonymous communication, we shall be able,
with Clara's and Mary's testimony, to make out a
clear case.
Well sir     ahead and draw on my bankers fog
he sinews of war. I will stay home one voyage if it
is necessary," said Captain Horton.
"1That will not be necessary," replied the lawyer.
,*                   *
W6 leave Mr. Taylor making his arrangements to
tinustice for    ary Sanders, aias Mai-y Mor-
da, u ..  and look in to see what Mordaunt hE  been
plotting._==
" ev  oh.Furnace, No.   Washington, street,
Bro"lyn.YThanks,,Captain Horton, you have
i~eieednie ecedingly ,,bythat lastremak"si

Mordaunt, in soliloquy, stepping lightly across the
office, and taking his hat. Going into the main
office, he said to a clerk-
" Mr. Loftus will be here at twelve o'clock. Give
him this bundle, and tell him I shall call at four
o'clock precisely."
"Yes sir," replied the clerk.
Mordant went immediately to his aunt's resi-
dence He there assumed a disguise, and proceeded
to Brooklyn.: He called upon Rev. Mr. Furnace,
and carefully noticed everything about the house and
premises. His business, he said, was to obtain his
services at a funeral, in case he should be disap-
pointed by another clergyman.. Mr. Furnace readily
agreed to the arrangement.   The funeral he in-
formed Mr. Furnace, would be held the next day at
five o'clock, r.m  The burial would take place in"'
Greenwood Cemetery.
"Xow," said Mordaunt to himself, as he walked
down Fulton street to Fulton Ferry, we "will see
about getting a party of the 'Ever Faithful' 'to
attend this funeral. If there is not a coroner's in-
quest on the body of Rev. John Furnace, it will be
because the said body does not show itself."
At twelve o'clock noon the next day, Mr. Taylor
gave the papers requisite for commencing legal pro-
ceedings to his clerk, .to obtain "admission of ser-
vice," at the suit of Mary Mordaunt.
"Take thesepapers, and serve Mr. Mordaunt with
a copy of them to-morrow morning," said Mr. Taylor.
" Yes air"
rAt eleven blockp on the following d aM it
received the papers, and gave "due adinissio i. ao
their r service," w ith a stsidbtironical smile.

GEO O GE ME L V ItL LE.

its


tir1     '    _t,
ih          iS
yF.'    t    'rt _              1
'V _:   j
11            1,
n a   fS't
L'      -'
Y      '
G      1 t  c
-     ,
JJ                 "
i     1.                       _I
,      7
Yj
t       ~     ,         v
.i
- Z ,       _      -
X           a
T3 m

playing around the corners of his finely-shaped mouth.
The clerk, after he had obtained the admissions, left
the room.
"Well, Mr. Shank, it stms there was a funeral
yesterday afternoon at Brooklyn. I see by the pa-
pers that the clergyman who officiated .at that fune-
ral did not return to his home. 'Fears,' say the
papers, Care entertained, that after the procession
returned to the city, Mr. Furnace, who, preferring to
walk home, had dismissed his carriage, was foully
dealt with by parties unknown. As yet, no clue has
been discovered by which to unravel the mys-
tery'"
" That seems to be quite satisfactory, Mr.. Shank,"
continued Mordaunt ; "and now, as one good turn
deserves another, I will give you my  advice about,
one of the young men whom Mr. Halter mentioned
to me. The Griswold you speak of resides at No. --
Fourteenth street, New York. My advice to you is,
make a night visit to the house; effect an entrance;
gather what seems worth carrying away, and set fire
to the remainder."
Good I" said the villain, known as Bob Shank ;
"that will fix one of theau  You don't know the
other?"
"No," replied Mordaunt, "not as yet. I will let
you know what I discover, however. Call on me
Friday, as I leave the city Saturday, or Monday, at
the farthest."
" Mr. Loftus," said a clerk, opening the office

floor.
Show him in, sir, if you please," said Mordaunt,
tthesame time bidding "Shank" good morning.
Good morning,IMfr. Loftus," said Mordauntaris-

ing and greeting one of the firm of "Power &amp;
Loftus," brokers, with his most winning smile.
"You are prompt."
"A very easy task, Mr. Mordaunt. With you for
a general, most any stock might go at a high figure.
We have disposed of seventy-five thousan. at 110 for
first-class paper at thirty days.  That nets you
$7,500. But that is not the best of it. James H.
Griswold has finally offered 109 for $200,000. Wright
&amp; Pierce, by his order, sent an agent to examine the
affairs of the "Catfish Company."  He has returned,
tnd reported it' as a splendid investment. Shall I
close with 1091? The balance of the stock Power &amp;
Loftus will take from you at par, for cash, in place
of charging you commissions."
"Very well," said Mordaunt.  "You may close
the bargain ;" and Loftus retired.
Two hours afterwards, he again entered Mordaunt's
office.
"There, Mr. Mordaunt," said Loftus, "are eight
notes at thirty days for ten thousand dollars each,
and one for $2,500. Total, $82,500 ; and there are
seven checks, amounting in the aggregate to $219;500.
There, sir, is ' Power &amp; Loftus's' check; for $5000.
Grand total, $327,000.' Griswold took our $25,000 at
112."
"Very well, Mr. Loftus; I shall have more work
for you soon," replied Mordaunt.
"We shall be very happy to attend to your orders,
air. Good afternoon."
Mordaunt was now alone. He looked upon the
evidences of capital which lay before him; but, not
eventhe $27,000 profit could divert his mind from
the plans yet.to be laid to acemplish  the ruinf Mr.

G-E O4 EGE M-ELVILLE.                                                    2

144

125

GEOIGB -MELVILLE

i   f   t        .i                                                           r
',                                                                       '
'r


126         GEORGE MELVILLE.
Griswold. If Mr. Griswold should throw his stock
into market immediately, of course he would realize
nearly, or quite the amount of his outlay.
"-Give me one week the start, and if a dollar of the
Catfish Railroad Company's stock or securities sells
iiNew York,:I will buy it at par," said M[ordaunt,
rising and opening the door which led to his princi-
pal office. "Mr. Johnston," said he to a clerk, " go
and ask Mr. Hoskins to call up here."
" Yes, sir."
In ten minutes Mr. Hoskins entered Mordaunt's
office. The secret grips which passed between
John Halter and Mordaunt in Auburn, now passed
between Hoskins and Mordaunt.
".Mr. Hoskins, have you heard of the Catfish
Railroad Company-?" said Mordaunt
Yes, sir; some of your planning, I believe."
"Yes," said Mordaunt. "Well, I want the stock
of that company to find 'buyers scarce."'
"I comprehend. You want to buy low," said
Hoskins.
" Just. so.," said Mordaunt. "Can you do it ?."
"How soon ?"
"One week at the extent."
"That's quick work," said Hoskins.
"Not for a man of your genius," replied Mor-
daunt. "My check for one thousand dollars is ready
for you, if at the end of a week that stock is below
fifty. It stands to-day at one hundred and ten at
private sales."
"The offer is very fair, and without the money
you should have my services; but it will cost more
than that sum. I shall be obliged to employ consi-
derable help "

GcEoI 'E MELVILLE.

Say no more," interrupted Mordaunt. "Name
the amount at once."
"Three thousand may do. If I want more, I will
call and see you."
"Send a telegram to me at Aurora, if you need
more. I leave for that place to-night," said Mor-
daunt.
It was nearly five o'clock. His work wa finished.
As he handed Mr. Hoskins his check for three thou-
sand dollars he said to himself, "That money is well
invested if it brings me Bell Mortiner for a wife,
even in a pecuniary point of view."
In an hour more he was on route for Aurora.

/,


2i        GEORG~E MELVVILL ..

xx.V

Arrival of the Liverpool Steamer-New York Firemen-- Griswold's
Heroism-The Catfish Railroad Stock falling-Trouble.
IT was five o'clock, r.M., as the loud booming
signal gun reverberated over the lew York Bay,
announcing the arrival of an "ocean steamer."  In a
short time the magnificent craft would moor at her
pier, and send forth from her bosom the sons and
daughters of every nation, to tread the soil of free-
dom; to mingle with the sons' and daughters of the-
Republic; to bask in the sunshine of liberty. And
the noble vessel, too, has united loving hearts. See,
careful observer, is not that meeting, friend with
friend, a foretaste of the joys to be felt in a more
enduring world?    Canst thou pen the unwritten
poetry which sounds from among that happy group,
in sweetest numbers
"With a full but soft emotion,
Like the swell of summer's ocean ?"
ry it. 'Twill do thy heart a service, and prepare
hee better to appreciate that meeting on 'the deck.
No yes but thne and Heaven's have looked upon
3o jys-the eager crowd know not the, greetigs
of' thaoe loving hearts.  Some years agone,. that

G0EOGf   MEL VI LLE -9
happy pair were pledged to love. The bright affee-
tions of their youthful hearts then' turned to gaze
upon the rich beds in love's beautiful garden, bear-
ing with healthy growth those rarest plants gathered
from every clime, confidence, self-sacrifice, heroism,
virtue; and giving forth as a rich and swift-pervad-
ing perfume, the faith which fathers holy thought.,
" Your pass, if you please, sir," said a man at the
gangway to Thopnas Griswold, as he went on board
the Liverpool steamer.  "All right I"  In  a few
moments Griswold and Clara Edgemonte had met
after a separation of nearly one year.
We stop the pen while the first few moments of
their happiness pass by.
*      *      *       *      *-*
"Where, dear Clara, are your father and mother?"
" The mother is not far off," said Mrs. Edgemonte,
entering the richly-furnished, so to -speak, drawing-
room of the steamer.  "I have been looking' for
you, Mr. Griswold, but gave up the chase, and deter-
mined to be very dignified and let you find me."
"Here comes father," said Clara.
Griswold turned and met Mr. Edgemonte half
way.
" All well in America, Thomas? You see wife
and Clara show frr themselves ; a voyage does them
good," said Mr. Edgemonte, cordially shaking hands
with Griswold.
The meeting between' Clara and Griswold wasa
happy one. His visit at Mr. Edgemonte's residence
that evening, was prolonged into the hours ofnight.
"Clara, I am going to propose a visit to Aurora,
elvile, his sister and eousinimade a short ist
there last week.  They have goefra week t


30GEORG 'MELVILLE.
Niagara, and will return to Aurora next Thursday.
There goes the City-Hall bell! Somebody's property
is in danger, and perhaps life. Fires are so common
in this great pity that we forget to sympathize with
those who are called upon to face the destroying
"True ! This time, Thomas, the fire seems near
by," said Clara.
Just. then the flames, heretofore pent up by the
walls and metal roof, burst their barriers, and spread
over the night the twilight of a brilliant sunset.
That fire cannot be very distant," said Griswold.
"Clara, I will go and see where it is. Good night!
Expect me at ten o'clock to-morrow.
Griswold hurried up Fifth Avenue to Fourteenth
street, that being the direction of the fire. As he
turned the corner, he saw that it was his own home
which the tortuous, serpent-tongued flames were rap-
idly licking, with unrelenting satisfaction. He saw
too, that all which human effort could accomplish,
would be the preservation of contiguous and sur-
rounding. buildings. Griswold's thoughts, and our
pen recording them, acknowledge a wide difference
in their motive power. His energies were instantly
aroused. To find that-his father was safe, was his
first' object. He was soon gratified in this respect.
lie then thought only of the safety of families living
adjacent, and the preservation of their property. To
this:work he energetically devoted himself. No one,
under such an excitement, can tell what good an
energeticiul may accomplish until he has essayed
the trial  Like a skillfully educated general, Gris-
w soug  opt the heads of the Fire Department, and
itod iced himself tothem. Otaining the counte.

GEOR G E MELVILLE.  131

nance of their orders, he sent parties of men to
every room in the adjoining buildings,leading on the
bold and daring and pressing the idle into the ser-
vice. He also cautioned one and all whom he met,
to be cool and steady. "Broken furniture is as well
burnt," was his motto, wherever he discovered the
least carelessness. He aroused, too, the fast accumu-
lating force of policemen, to a more active sense of
their duty. It was not half an hour before every
fireman, and policeman on the ground, had seen and
approved some act of Griswold's, and become infused
with his determined energy. Nor did he leave the
work half finished.  When the imminent danger:
which had threatened the surrounding property was
past, he turned his attention to the firemen, who,
without hopes or expectancy of reward, at the risk
of life and limb, had bravely and so successfully,
fought their fearful enemy. Going from house to
house, he aroused the inmates to prepare and send
them refreshments, an attention too often forgotten
in times of similar peril.
Mr. Griswold, the third day subsequent to the fire,
entered the office of' "Messrs. Wright &amp; Pierce,
Brokers."
"What success, Mr. Wright, with the 'Catfish
Railroad Stock?"' said Mr. Griswold.
" None at all!"  Some unaccountable cause has
made, everybody afraid to touch it.  We have not
sold a single share. The friends of nearly every rail-
road security in market have become opposed to the
Catfish.Raiioad management, in advance, of any
public sales of its stock."
Mr. t*iswold, although surprised at this' report,
betrayed no uneasiness. H'lie. bought the stock fora


'  pr n  investment originally.  He knew its
u     uld fluctuate. He knew also, that if he
gidd succeed' in carrying it through, eventually he,
would realize handsomely. The stock was paid for.
He had sufficient to ineet all his current expenses,
but for theloss of his house. To build as he desired,
vas now out of the question, unless he could realize
on the Catfish Railroad stock.
se had lost his house and furniture, upon which
there was no insurance. The cause of the fire lie
had not been able to ascertain, but believed it to be
the work of an incendiary, as nearly all the valuable
silver in his house was gone, while some trifling
articles 2i1y were saved. He still had thirty thon-
sand dollars, which he had intended for his son on his
wedding-day. But lie hoped to realize upon his stock.
Day after day passed. The reports from his agents
were unfavorable. The day for his son's wedding
gradually approached..  Unless he could sell hie
stock, the wedding, he determined, should not go on.
Thomas was already admitted to his profession; but,
ets he had no income from its practice. Early
one evening, while he was forming a plan to meet
the difficulty, a little billet was placed in his hands.
It proved to be a notice of protest on a bank note for
a large sum, upon which his name was written as
first indorser.
'Well! Misfortunes never come single," said Mr.
Giswold, calmly, and like a man who has learned
to look upon the world merely as a place for prepa-
rafion to enter a better. Two days after, a fire oc
cured among the shipping on the East River, and a
arese neaby Mr.4dswold wag totaly destroyed.
Theihsirnce cotay Igoved insolvent.  the quas.

I;

tion with Mr. Griswold was, no longer, shall the
marriage be postponed?       It now  became, "shall I
make an assignment for the benefit of my creditors ?"
By this time the Catfish Railroad Company had
expended their resources, and the directors, who had
made extensions beyond their capital, called a meet-
ing of   the stockholders to consult upon the best
method to be pursued.. It was determined to sell the
road to some new company for the amount of the old
company's debt. This of course made every dollar
of the original stock and securities worthless.
An action at law was brought against Mr. Grisn,
wold, by the bank holding his name as an indorser.
Before an issue could be had, however, Mr. Griswold
made, an assignment. On the same day, Thomas
Griswold wrote the following note and sent it to Mr.
Edgemonte by a servant.
NEW YOE, -, 18--.
MY DEAR AND RESPECTED SI:o
You will learn, by the usual channel, that to-day, my father has
been called upon to make an assignment of his property to satisfy his
creditors. This event makes it incumbent upon me to assign to you
the hold I have gained upon your friendship. I rejoice this sad event
has happened in advance of my anticipated union with Clara. While
my heart remains the same, my judgment leads to this missive.
Yours, respectfuly,
TAoMAs F. Giswow.

4 '
J

;,.


GEORE GE MELVILLLAE

XXI.

4

Short but Interesting.

"CLARA, come into my study, if you please," said
Mr. Edgemonte to his daughter, the morning after he
received Thomas Griswold's note.
"Yies, dear father," said Clara, running in advance
of his slower pace, and opening the door for him.
" When have you seen Mary Sanders ?"
"She called to see me three days after we returned
from Europe."
t"iTid she give you any good news for herself?"
"es, sir. Mr. Taylor had found testimony enough
to go to law with."
The" reader will recollect that when Clara first
Made the acquaintance of Mary Sanders, her pa-
rents were in Europe. As soon, as they returned to
the United States, Clara informed her mother of the
cidmstances connected with Mary.     Mr. Edge-
monte was not informed of it until Mordaunt and his-
daughter had become acquaintances. He then inves-
tigated the story, aid came to the conclusion that
Mary might be mistaken. At any rate, he advised
Clara to base no action upon the story except so far
as regarded her own associations with Mordaunt.
'That will do, dear Clara, and now here is your
first realtrial in life. You must bear it like an Edge-

I
i
,
f

1834

i
f
fj

monte. I have just returned from an interview with
Thomas's father. Mr. Griswold has been obliged to
make an assignment.  Thomas yesterday sent this
note to me. There ; you may read it."
When she had finished the reading, looking up
with a smile, she said:
" Is that all, dear father? You have enough for
both."
"No, Clara, not all. Thomas is too proud to ac-
cept Clara Edgemonte's hand for the purpose of liv-
ing upon her bounty."
Clara turned her gaze from her father's face, and a
thoughtful, and gradually-growing sorrowful expres-
sion spread over her face.
"I have already made the offer to Mr. Griswold to
assist him out of his difficulties. The principal cause
of his ruin is the New.York Catfish Railroad Com-
pany. All the old stockholders have been allowed to
come in for double stock, by paying fifty for one hun-
dred of stock. I shall secure Mr. Griswold's venture
by taking $100,000 of the new stock. This he con-
sents to my doing. Eventually it will put him ,on
his feet. I am not so fortunate with Thomas. He
says you must settle the question, ' will you wait his
wish?' What says my Clara?"
" Yes, ten years, and will go write him to that
effect now."
"Go, Clara, go. - I am proud of you."

135

GRORGE MELVIL-LE.

:1


13O6

XXT.
A pail on ayuga'Lake before Breakfast-Thermometer thirty degrees
below Zero-Two Miles a Minute under a fair Wind-Bell Mortimer
takes an observation-The Surprise not a Surprise-The Race
Tome---.The Ice-boat too much for the Horses-The Runaway-The
Rescue--Love told without Words---Death cheated of his Prey.
Tm reader will please retrace his steps in the order
time, to the last week in December, during George
Melville's senior year at college. Hill, mountain
addale of westei'n New York were "clad in robes
of :eec white."  The inventions of Fahrenheit read
went, twenty-five, and even thirty degrees below
zero, from day to day. King .Eolus had opened his
bag, and let loose the howling blasts.. Tree, shrub,
d bush:had .close-reefed all ther sails, mindful of
season.  Nature was not caught unprepared.
e a watchful mariner, she presented bare poles to
the gale.
'This is a biting cold morning, Tam," said Mel-
a  hey issued together, from their room  to ob-
tmamorning repast.
.      indeed," responded Griswold,'buttoning his
shaggy   - ercoat more closely around his chin, and
bmyiig his hea within the soft fur of his coat-col.
Myifnthis, literally speaking a chattering-box,
Ta.s"

_ (!4 E -O B GB _ Mai iiI L V ML E a

i

,.
,,
f
t
t
t

GE LGEORGE MELVILLE. i

157

"Yes; .I hear the teeth rattle. You would do the
old song, 'Shivery, shivery, ho, ho ho ! the man that
couldn't get warm,' to perfection."
Breakfast over, Melville, valise in hand, might
have been seen walking rapidly towards Clinton vil-
lage. H3e obtains a horse and cutter. Crack goes
the whip. "Tam, write to  me from New York.
Good-bye." In. an hour's time, Melville was at the
Utica depot, waiting for the eastern train going West.
The time for its arrival had already passed.
"Two hours behind time, as I'm alive I" said Mel-
ville, looking at his watch.
"Yes, sir ; and it will be two more before the train
comes. . It is snowed in between here and Schenec-
tady," said a railroad official, with whom Melville
was on intimate terms.
At three o'clock, r.u., the train came along. Two
locomotives were attached to it, draggingbut three
cars. The locomotives were covered with icicles, and
hard packed snow, an ocular proof of the struggle
they had gone through with against time. Time, with
his cohorts of ice; snow and frost, had beaten- the
iron horses by four hours, in the race from Schenec-
tady to Utica.
"At last I am aboard," said Melville, getting as
close to the car stove as his fellow-passengers would
allow. At every five or ten miles, sometimes more
frequently, the train was obliged to halt, and all
hands turn to and fight the mountain snow drifts with
shovel and scoop.  Many of the passengers vol n-
tarily assisted in the labor, lthough always against
the vihes of the railroad officials.
"Whoa!    Safe at last Ind Melville drew  a 1ag


138     GEORGE MELVILLE.M

breath, stretching out his almost frozen limbs, and
throwing his hands back and forth rapidly against
his  shoulders.
"Shall I take your horse, sir ?" said. a boy.
"Yes, put him out ; have him well rubbed down
immediately. Put on his blanket, and let him stand
without eating," responded Melvill6.
In a few moments he was warming himself by the
genial fire of mine host of the Aurora House.
"What time do you have tea, sir ?" inquired Mel-
ville.
" In about an hour."
"Very well, sir. Put down a plate for me, and
give me a room, with a good fire." Then, taking his
hat, he went to the barn to see his horse.
"Boy ! how goes the horse ?"
"rine, shure, yer honor."
"Have#you rubbed him down ?"
"Be jabers ! an' Ihev',.sir."
"Well, then, here is a quarter for you."
"Thank;ye. Shure an' I'll rub him agin if ye
spake the word."
"No;. he will do now. Do you know Mr. Frede-
ick IMortimer ?"
Yis; an' he's the finest gentleman in 'Rory, barren'
his father and Misthress Bell."
Taking a card from his pocket, Melville handed it
to the boy, with a smile at his ideas of a fine gentle-
man in he person of the lovely Bell Mortimer.
"Take that card and give it to him. Say the gen-
tleman who sent it is at the Aurora Hoteh"
"Yis,.sirs"
Jst as the supper bell was sounded, Frederick
i4rier entered the hotel-.

" Good ! I waited at Auburn yesterday for you
over five hours," said Fred. "Business called me
home, or I should have remained until to day. Bell
is not at home. She is at her aunt's, about six miles
south from here. We will try and catch her at
Aunt luldah's, taking breakfast. To do it, you must
rise at just a quarter to six. They breakfast at seven.
Aunt Huldah is a well-regulated clock. You can
always tell the time of day by her daily meals."
"Does Bell know anything about my visit," said
Melville.
"Oh, yes ! but she is a queer specimen of woman-
kind; does just as she chooses. When I told her
that you had deigned to accept my invitation and
spend the holidays with me, she gave a regular
round of applause ; clapped her hands magnificently,
and made believe give me a kiss.- I wouldn't put up
with that as a finale, and so placed my arm in posi-
tion and stole the reality.  'There,' said she, '"Mr.
Impudence ! for that error of poor human nature I
shall go and make Aunt Huldah a visit, and spend a
week. You have issued orders without a council of
war, and now, please, attend to the wants of the new
recruit yourself.' True to her word, she had her
little pony put before her cutter, and left an hour
before I awoke yesterday morning."
"Capital!" said Melville. "Let us have the morn-
ing ride by all means. We will make her a call, lut
positively set our faces against her coming to Aurdia
to interfere with our bachelor living."
"We must not allow her to'*mourn for our absence,
though," said Fred. "She has run away, 'tis true;
but she is pretty familiar with her brother's inability
to get along well without her. Now for our quar-

GiEORG}t MEL'VTLLE.               X39


140       GRORGE  IELVILLE.

ters. Boy, carry this valise to Mr. Mortimer's resi-
deuce"
Tis, sir; thank ye,"said the boy, as he caught the
quarter Fred tossed him.
At six .;clock the following morning the two
young gentlemen were ready for their ride.
"Melville," said Fred, "I have made a change in
the programme."
"Tery well; what is it? I shall not object," re-
plied Melville.
"The ice on the lake is smooth as a mirror, and
perfectly safe; the weather looks steady; the wind
blows just right for a sail either north or south. With
the breeze we have this morning, we can fetch Aunt
Huldah's in just about seven or eight minutes."_
"By what magical wand," said Melville, "do you
expect to change winter to summer, that we may sail
on the Oayuga this morning ?"
The question is-easy of solution," replied Fred.
Those-of our readers who have never seen one of
the ice-boats which are common upon the inland
lakes of western New York have yet one thing to
feet wonder at, if they do not express it. Should they
dare the trial, they will conclude that steam does not
yet equal the wind s a propelling power. Two
miles in a minute have been done by a gentleman
who resides not far from  one scene of ,this story.
The managementof an ice-boat is.very simple. It
is so constructed that it obeys most of the laws
.which govern wind navigation. Next to the bal-
on, a sailin an ice-boat is the most exciting experi-
4mentof travel. For the balloon part of this remark,
solely upon descriptive education.
benMelvillehohad accompanied Fred, Mor-

I

timer to the ice-boat, yaw the singular looking craft,
he turned in mute astonishment.
"The manly skippers down on your sea-clad isle,
Melville, have deeds wondrous and daring to relate;
but I can show them all a trick with that craft."
Sayingthis, he put the sail in trim and took the
tiller. Instantly, as the wind filled the canvas, the
boat shot from the land like a ball from a piece of
ordnance. Melville fairly trembled at the frightful
speed to which they attained. In about the time
specified by Frederick Mortimer they had passed the
six miles. As they neared the shore, Fred ordered
the sail to be gradually lowered, thus reducing the
speed of the boat by degrees.
" There, Mr. Melville, can you make your affidavit
that we are over six miles from our bachelor home ?"
asked Fred.
"No, indeed," replied Melville. "This must be the
craft Baron Munchausen mistook for an eagle when
he rode to the north pole, and ran against a frozen
cloud."
"Very likely," replied Fred. "Now for a charge
upon Aunt Huldah's, breakfast. We will take the
back entrance and rouse them in primitive style, as
in days when log walls and a single room on the
ground floor were considered luxurious."
They were approaching the house.
"Ha ! ha !" laughed Fred. "How Bell will pull
my ears! It won't hurt them much, for theyfeel the
effects of that six miles in no time at all. All I
care for, however, is that they shall not be found
frozen."
Let the reader go with us to Bell Mortimer's apart-
ment, in her aunt's hose, on this frosty morning.

GEORGE. 11ZELYILI.E.           1  .


GEORGE ESLVIrLE.

GEOGE MELVILLE.

.42

Lt half-past five o docl , Bell awakened from a.
peacefulslumber.
"No sluggard shall I be this morning !" said
she.
Rising hastily, she threw on a morning dress, and
turned her attention to the stove. In a few moments,
a bright fire rewarded her industry. Practical,.
wasn't she ?
"Now, Master Fred;" said she to herself, "if you
dare come here this week, I will kiss you until you
Will be glad to let me alone for the future. Ha ! ha!
I wonder what Fred said when he found Pony gone.
There is a sail! -Fred ! as true as I live ! Yes, and'
that young whaler from Martha's Vineyard.' I should
think he might stay at Martha's Vineyard, and not.
come here to trouble Aunt Huldah's Vineyard."
She took her aunt's large telescope, and satisfied
herself that the ice-boat was really Fred's. Then,
laying it aside, she ran to the kitchen, and changed
materially her aunt's orders for breakfast.
"Hurry, Jane!' Don't let Aunt Huldah know
anything about my interference, though," said she
to the servant.
Putting her own hands to the work, the table was
re-set in five minutes. Bell then flew to her room,
.nd, in a time 'which, we fear, will appear almost
imcredible to the mass of our lady readers, she was
arrayed in most exquisite morning costume, appro-
prate as it was rich.
She then went to her aunt's room, who was just
about leaving it to proceed to the kitchen; for the
purpose of making the final arrangements fortthe
-breakfast.
"+    dear aunty ; you'mustnot leave your room

in that costume. It does not compare well withr
mine," and Bell kissed her aunt good morning.
" Oh, this will do, child," said her aunt.
"No! it won't do at all. My orders are impera-
tive, and you know, Aunt Huldah, you will have no
peace unless they are obeyed. I promise to tease
you for two days, unless you make an instant change.
I shall see to the breakfast."
"Very well," said her aunt, smiling affectionately
upon her favorite niece. "You shall be gratified."
Her aunt soon arrayed herself to suit Bell's most
fastidious taste. She now descended to the dining-
.room.
"Why, what are you- about, Bell Mortimer? All
my best breakfast-set !"
"Of course, Aunt Huldah !" replied Bell, laugh-
ing, in high spirits. "Don't you think they match
well with our morning costumesI Your dress is
beautiful."
"I am really afraid you are fast becoming a spoiled
child.  I shall talk to Brother Benjamin about
this."
"No! no ! Don't youtell pa!"
Bell and her aunt took their seats, Bell at the end
of the table, as carver; her aunt poured out the
coffee:
"Here, Jane, hand this cup of coffee to Miss Mor-
timer," said her aunt.
At this instant, a noise was heard in the kitchen.
" What is that, Jane?" -said Bell's aunt. "Go and
see who are in the kitchen."
a Yes, ma'am !" and she started to open the kitchen
door.
In this she- was anticipated by. Fred Motier.

:11

143

t
1
; "r
f
{   .
''i
r   :+
t

i,


144

/

GE! RGE MELVILLE.

Goodmorning, Aunt Huldah!" said Fred. "Good
morningrun,=away I"
"Good morning, sir," said Bell, rising from her
seat, and assuming the dignity of a hostess, who is
aboutto do the honors of her house to strangers.
"It is rather cool this morning. You have taken an
early start.. Ah, Mr. Melville," said she, with a
most bewitchingly provocative smile, as much as to
say: Gentlemen, I have outwitted you. "There,
sirs, are seats for you at table ; as soon as you can
appear in a presentable condition, I will introduce
youto the lady of the house.".
Her aunt read the solution of Bell's wishes in
regard to her dress. She also saw that Bell was
acting a part, and determined not to mar it by any
unhappy interference. She remained quiet and
seated.
The gentlemen divested themselves of their heavy
garments.
"Shall I not do the carving, Miss Mortimer $"
asked Fred.
"Indeed, sir, you may, on your own fortune, but
not on this meat. Mr. Melville, allow me to present
you to my aunt, Mrs. Thompson. Aunt Huldah, this
SMr. Melville, of whom you have heard me speak.
Mr. Mortimer, I believe, needs none of my services,
as he is acquainted with Mrs. Thompson. Mr. Mel-
11e allow me to present you with this plate. You
xn:ust have gained an appetite by your morning
t e."
ILcan assure you I have and will accept the plate,
with many thanks, Miss Mortimer," said Melville.
Mortimer, is: not managing ice-boats rather
labtoiuo$ ?There, sis3 is a plate for you, wellfiled

GEORGEl MELVILE.

145

Do you intend to continue your journey to-day $" said
Bell.
"I shal be guided by circumstances; and, in
reply to your first query, it is agreeable rather than
laborious.  The ren'ark intervening between the
questions demands my Very humble thanks. In reply
to the last query, allow m to say, I am obedient to
my companion."
"It was Fred's turn now to enjoy tell's confusion.
She blushed in a very inteesiing, impromptu style ;
but, rallying, she dropped her assumed dignity, and
welcomed the young gentlernenwith a warm heart,
which contrasted well with the cold comfort of their,
ride in the ice-boat.  At four o'clock P.M., Mrs.
Thompson ordered her horses, two spirited animals,
to be harnessed before a new double sleigh.
"Now, gentlemen," said Mrs. Thompson, "you
may go back to Aurora as you came, and get every-
thing in readiness for visitors; myself and Miss Mor-
timer purpose taking tea with you, and spending the
night."
" That's cool !" said Fred, laughingly.
"Very, Mr. Mortimer," replied his aunt.  "It
matches with the weather, sir. Good bye. John,
let go of their heads."
Mrs. Thompson was a lady who, possessing all the
sentiment of woman, gave proof of masculine cou-
rage. Her life in the country had schooled her in
the management of horses. A drive with the beauti
tiful span of shining black five-year-olds, was her
greatest pastime.
"They have left us to work our' passage home,
Mr. Melville," said Fred.
"Yes, sir; and, judging from the merry jingleof

1

:
U

i,          z   S rfR'c ,d   .'


Jk.

146

GEORGE MELVILLE.

their sleigh-bells, we will have to lose no time to be
at Aurora in advance," replied Melville.
"Now for it, then I The wind has freshened since
morning, ppt the direction is all right," said Fred.
In fewer moments than it- takes to record the fact,
Melville and Fred, as if by magic, were safely at
Aurora, awaiting the arrival of the ladies. Melville,
looking at his watch, remarked-
"They must be here now in about twenty minutes.
I will take a walk, and meet them."
"As you please,". said Fred.  "I won't answer
for their condescension in recognizing any way-
farers."
" I would not, if I had a certain friend for a com-
panion,"-replied Melville. " As you are so much en-
gaged, I will risk the condescension, and go."
Suiting the action to the word, Melville started.
He walked briskly through the main street-in fact,
Aurora has but one street worthy the title-until he
had reached the open country. Near this place, the
road descends into a ravine, making, of consequence,.
a hill to. descend and a hill to climb. When he had
walked about half-way down the hill on his side of
the ravine, he heard a cry of terror coming from the
road beyond the opposite hill. Of course, he could
not see from whence the cry proceeded. He deter-
ned; however, to hasten his steps, and to this end,
wasabout pressing his hat more firmly upon his
S d, preparatory to running down into the ravine.
this :instant, a span of horses, which he recognized
as Mrs. Thompson's, came over the brow of the op-
posite hill, wild with fright, and at the top. of their
speed. For an instant, and but for an instant, a film
Massed over his eyes. The next, every energy of his

-,i
Ell
a ,7
ej 1
ti
yr ' f
t et{
1
f S
r iJ _

G EORG E MELVILLE.      ~     47
soul was aroused to a wild but determined resolve.
The pace at which the infuriated animals descended
to the ravine, was indeed frightful. Melville uttered
one prayer that the sleigh might not be dashed in
pieces against the railing of a small bridge.
"Thank God they have passed that bridge !" He
now recognized Mrs. Thompson and Bell. Onward,
and up the hill, the maddened animals came; thQ
ascent, seemingly, had no-effect to abate their pace.
Melville stood exactly in the centre of the road. He
determined to stop the animals, or lose his life in the
attempt.  He saw before him a slight pitch-hole.-
Advancing to it, he stepped a pace out of the path
(in jockey parlance) of the"" of horse." When they
had arrived within ten or fifteen feet of his position,
he turned, and began running up the hill, keeping
his eye upon the horse nearer to him. The animals
were soon abreast of him. By. a quick but sure
and firm grasp with his right hand, he seized one of
the reins about a foot from the'bit; at the same
instant, he threw the whole force of his body against
the side of the horse, and grasped, with the left hand,
his mane. The pace now became tremendous; with
almost superhuman courage and strength, Melville
succeeded in gaining the back of the off horse. The
task before him was one, which, even in this position,
was attended with difficulty. To upset the sleigh
was almost certain death to its occupants. To pull:
upon one rein would certainly do this. After sever
vain attempts, he succeeded in gathering up tie
lines. This accomplished, the rest of his task  was
comparatively easy. Several men had by this time
appeared upon the scene. They grasped the horses
by their heads, and cried to Maelville to dismount.


GEORGE MELVILLE.

Melville; gave no response. One of the increasing
crowd, going up to Melville, attempted to, assist him
to dismount. To his astonishment; Melville was per-
fectly uncoiscious, and, but for this assistance, would
have fallen to the ground.. Both Mrs. Thompson
and Bell, although uninjured, except from a terrible
fright, had been led into the nearest house. As yet,
they knew nothing of the circumstances attending
their safety.  Mrs. Thompson was handing Bell a
glass of water, when the door opened, and several
men bore Melville into the next room.
Bell and Mrs. Thompson were now sufficiently re-
covered from their fright to learn the particulars of
their rescue.
" Who is that ?" said Bell. "What has hurt him ?"
Has that man been injured by the horses ?" said
Mrs. Thompson; is he seriously hurt ?"
These and other questions of like import were
asked in quick succession by each, in short and
nervous accents. No one present could tell the name
of the wounded man. All they could learn was, that
ie was a stranger.; had been seen walking down the
road only a few moments before ; and that, at the
peril of his life, he had stopped the horses and ap-.
parently, at least, saved them from a horrible death.
Both Bell and, her aunt were anxious to enter the
room and render assistance. But they were prevented
by some.gentlemen, who informed them that,, at
present, ladies could be of no service.
"A few moments more, Miss Mortimer, and the
surgeon will have set the bone," said a bystander.
"Has he a broken bone ?" said Mrs. Thompson.
"Yes, ma'm," answered the bystander; Is right
deg  broken below the knee."

48

,,;
.r
s
.4
's
.
i
u
9
Si
'd,
F-
i }
1 t
.
l -      ,
4".
'
?i'
!
Y,
SU;
i fir'
' K
'
t' 'Z''
t   ,    _
-'fir
t L
3      =
h Hs
r}}  yp
vS  t G
,y
r
,
h
N
J 4  '
x
Y
}
4
S
;i^}:
ai  '

GORGE MELVILLE.

"Who is he? Do, do let me go to him!" -said
Bell.
"The horses are all safe, Mrs. Thompson, and so is
the sleigh," said a boy, coming into the room-
"Thank you, sir," said Mrs. Thompson. "Iyam
glad they are safe; but I would rather have lost a
dozen horses and sleighs than that this gentleman
should have been injured."
A groan from the wounded man reached the ears
of the ladies. Bell was in a state of the most acute
trial. Such suffering from one who had risked his
life to save her from a terrible destruction, was indeed
a bitter, bitter trial. Bell at that moment truthfully,
sincerely, from her heart of sympathy, wished that
she had been the one to suffer.
By this time curiosity had been somewhat allayed.
The surgeon ordered the room to be cleared. With
the exception of one or two persons, this was imme-
diately done.
Can Miss Mortimer and Mrs. Thompson see their
deliverer, Dr. Bond ?" said the lady who was the
unasked but willing hostess of this unexpected com-
pany.
"Miss Mortimer! Mrs. Thompson! Why, Mrs.
Jewett, are they the ,ladies whose lives this gentle-
man has-saved ?" said the kind-hearted surgeon.
"Yes, sir; it was Mrs. Thompson's blacks? Some-
thing about the harness gave way, which frightened
the horses."
You may present my compliments, Mrs. Jewett,
and ask them to come in."
"Thank you, doctor" replied Mrs. Jewett
Before Melville, who would have prevented their
entrance, could be heard Dr. Bond's message had

149


150     GEORGE - MELVILLE-'.O                                  M

been delivered, and the door was immediately opened.
Mrs . Thompson was first to enter. Advancing, she
took  Melville's hand, and, without recognizing
hime reyes suffusing with tears, she spoke her
thanks and sympathies in short and broken sen-
tences.
Melville could have endured all but the. tears. A
woman weeping for him, was not what he had been
accustomed to.- The effort to endure them evidently
troubled him.
The doctor saw this effect, and hastily warned the
ladies to be short in their visit.
Bell, advancing as Nirs. Thompson retired, also
failed to recognize her deliverer. She took his hand
and was about speaking, when their eyes met. Mel-
ville's gaze, at first, was lighted- by the keenest rays
of a soul which has learned but too well to love
where he deems another seeker has found the jewel.
As Bell became conscious that George Melville lay
upon that couch of suffering, like lightning came the
thoughts of the past;. the dreamy thoughts ; the un-
bidden presence in hours of reverie ; the flitting pic-
tures of his manly form; his darkly beaming eye ;
his rich-toned voice ; his respectful watchfulness for
her comfort;. his graceful, manly ease; his nobleness
of soul, evinced by his every word and .deed; she
felt at 1aat moment that happiness on earth for her
must come from. George Melville's love. Her eye
was a faithful tell-tale to Melville for what, since he
frst met Bell, he had not dared to hope, even in
secret. A rich blush suffused her temples. As, the
soul-spoken truth that Bell Mortimer loved him struck
the answering chord in-Melville's heart, the indices
of pain and suffering vanished from his face; his eye

/

kindled with a flame of purest joy; an angel's peace
had fallen upon his brow. A smile, which told Bell
Mortimer better than words, that in health or suffer-
ing, wealth or poverty, life or death, henceforth he
lived but for her, flitted over his countenance. Fondly
pressing the soft, white hand which had remained in
his grasp, he carried it respectfully to his lips and
imprinted thereon a kiss of holy love. Bell gently,
but to Melville's keen perception, unmistakably, re-
turned the pressure. Again his eye told her of his
love. Forgetting those around, her soul kindled with
sympathy for his suffering, gratitude for her life, and
the joy of a new and indescribable happiness. She
knelt by his couch of pain and 'imprinted upon his
manly brow the seal of a devotion which from that
instant was never broken. 'George Melville whis-
pered in her ear :
"May God watch over thee, dearest, dearest trea-
sure-!
Bell's eyes were suffused with tears. She 'turned
to Mrs. Jewett, and in a soft, but steady articulation,
said:
"I cannot thank him now ! let us return ! another
time ! he must rest!Y Doctor, you vill remain
here over night with me? Mrs. Jewett, please send
a messenger for my brother, Frederick. I can never
repay your kindness !"
" Don't speak of that," said Mrs. Jewett, herself
wiping the warm tears from her own eyes with her
clean check apron. "I can tell you tales of kindness,
sympathy, aye, and free purse strings, from  your
great grandfather down to the poor woman who
wore the new cloak to church last Sunday morning,
made by Bell Mortimer's own fingers. You didn't

GEORGE MELVILLE.    151

' 4 t
't L  }
=a"
,   , it?


GEORGE MELVIL4   -11 53

159     GEORGE MELVILLE.

do that so still as you thought," said Mrs. Jewett, the
teas flowing afresh iii spite of herself.
Bell turned away to hide her confusion.
Bell Mortjmer had left her aunt's one hour before
with a joyous spirit. Through life she had gambolled
over hill, dale and valley--no crags-no mountain
gorges-no rocky heights, had obstructed her path-
way. Time had gently lifted his sickle above her,
while gathering from around her home, recruits for
the heavenly hosts. Friends and faithful had watched
her from infancy. Hitherto, earth had no joys for
her, except in a "father's smile," a mother's love,
and a brother's confidence. Her father was the sun-
light ; her mother, the moon-light; her brother, the
shield' from every storm and tempest. To father,
mother and brother she was the
"Wabun Annung-the star of morning."
One short hour, and how     changed !  She had
perilled existence. The portals of heaven had been
unlatched, and one bright- ray of glory had flashed
therefrom. The angel harps had ceased; the expec-
tant host in the seraphic choir had watched, with
eager love, the fiery steeds of earth, ready to make
heaven's arches ring anew when her spotless soul
should preach its angel home.. But "Time," with
hoary lock, looked again and again over the instruc-
tions which he dare not contravene. The page was
blurred. Uncertain in his task, he
Turned back, with restless wing,
And gazed on heaven's throne,
From whence he e'er has flown,
Where sat her God and King.

t
r' Y
t q.
aft
3Y,

Not yet! not yet !" the angel trumpet, respon-
sive to that gaze, rang forth.
Turning his eye again upon the fiery steeds, the
Old Man, with the single lock, thus spoke:
"Beautiful daughter of earth, finish thy task !
For a season, I pass thee by."

f


GEORGE MEL MLLE. EL

155

XXII
Plans for the Future.
A LTrrrLE after five o'clock, Frederick Mortimer
entered Mrs. Jewett's house. On his way, he heard
several reports in regard to his sister and aunt.
He was prepared to find them injured; how much,
he dreaded to learn. The transition from' anxiety to
joy at their. safety, caused his heart to leap. He
clasped Bell to his arms kissing her again and
again.
"Bell!" said Fred, "you perceive run-aways do
not prosper. Take warning from this, and never
strike up arun-away match. Always consult your
brother, in future. How is the pony to get home ?"
"Fred, dear Fred !" said Bell, "I cannot bear even
the pleasantry of joy at my preservation. You have
a duty to perform towards my preserver."
".A duty? What is it, Bell? Who is your pre-
server "
"George Melville, Frederick. He has risked his
life to save your sister's. He lies in the front parlor,
suffering terrible pain from a broken leg. Dr. Bond
says his right leg is broken just below the knee. He
also says he has a severe flesh wound."'
;Frederick Mortimer's levity instantly vanished.:
He went to his friend's bedside.,

"George, I can, now, only thank you for the lives
of my sister and aunt," said he, taking Melville's
hand.
Melville smiled upon Frederick-his answer. his
smile seemed to say, "Frederick, even life would
have been well spent if yielded for such a cause."
" We must look this sad event sternly in its face,
George. I am glad this occurred in Aurora, where
our efforts to sympathize with you cannot be refused,
or joined in. Dr. Bond, can Mr. Melville be re-
moved to my father's residence ?"
"Not at present, Frederick."
"I fear we shall have to force upon Mrs. Jewett
what, to her, will be a burden," said Frederick.
"I require no urging," interposed Mrs. Jewett;
"the very necessity would make the duty a pleasure,
if, indeed, I owed nothing of sympathy, who have re-
ceived so many proofs of kindness from your family,
Mr. Mortimer."'
"'What can't be cured must be endured,'" said
Frederick. "One thing is certain, George will be
the gainer, now that he~has lost his locomotion for a
season. A better nurse than is Mrs. Jewett don't live
in Aurora."
"You judge from hearsay, Frederick," said the
lady in question.
"Public opinion, Mrs. Jewett," replied Fred.
" Which often manufactures character to order,"
said Mrs. Jewett.
"This time, if I am a judge, my friend Melville
found it ready made," said Frederick.
"Such as it is, he will have to abide by,"said.Mrs.
Jewett;  "There ! is that more comfortable, Mr.
Melville ? Let me moisten the bandages once more."

1
.x.64

GEORGE MELVILLE.


"Thank you, Mrs. Jewett," replied Melville.
"Now he must have rest. No more talking," said
Dr. Bond, " I prohibit it."
That night, Bell, Mrs. Jewett, Frederick Mortimer,
and Dr. Bond watched over George Melville.
Some days passed before the'surgeon deemed it safe
toremove Melville to Mr. Mortimer's house. It was
done at the earliest moment practicable. Up to this
time, both Bell and her brother had remained con-
stantly at Mrs. Jewett's. If duty demanded this, the
duty was certainly fully performed.J
It was a clear star-light night, about a month sub-
sequent.to Melville's injury, that Bell and her brother
Frederick might have been. seen in the front parlor
of their father's house, sitting upon a sofa drawn
before a graterfull of glowing Scranton.
"How is George, Fred ?" said Bell.
"Quite comfortable ;" replied Fred. "Where did
you obtain that beautiful bouquet, Bell?"-
"From the B-.k Nursery at Auburn," Fred.
"Those flowers are welcomed up stairs. Bell, I
gant to ask you a home question. You need not
answer it unless you choose."
" I have no secrets from my brother," replied
Bell.
"Bell," continued Frederick; "has George Mel-
ville taken advantage of circumstances, to turn your
gratitude into a warmer sentiment ?"
"lHe has. not, Frederick; but, forgive me brother,
in not speaking this from my own impulse, his love
i mine and it is reciprocated."
"When did he speak this Bell ?"
"ihas never spoken- it, Frederick."
"Never?".

. ,.      GEORGE. -, MELV ILLS.

I
xL
t
3
It
i

"lHe is too honorable to ask my heart as a proof
of gratitude."
"Are you engaged to each other ?"
" We love, Frederick. This is mutual; but, no
words have passed between us on the subject. If;
our lives are spared, George will become your brother
Fred. Trust me that he has not transcended the
sphere of friendship in this matter."
"Well, and what of Mordaunt ?" asked Fred.
"Father can never have his wish gratified.in his
behalf," replied Bell.
"Suppose he demands that you marry Mordaunt.,"
" My brother will shield his sister !"
"Suppose, if he dare not make, such a demand, he
does prohibit a union with Melville ?" asked Fred.
" Then he will see his daughter droop and die"-
and Bell nestled her cheek in her brother's bosom.
The throbbing pulse, the contracted brow, the
earnestness of truth, but no gathering tears, told
Frederick Mortimer, that Bell's were not idle words.
His sister's happiness was. really, at stake; perhaps
her life. He knew his father and mother better than
did Bell.. He knew they were determined upon
Bell's union with Mordaunt; and, while he feltthat
his father would never actually force Bell to his
wishes, Bell could not marry another, with his con-
sent. As he informed Bell of this, he advised her
to keep her own secret at present.
"George must graduate and study a profession
before you can be united. There is no necessity of
borrowing trouble in advance. Again, Bell; if father
and another are informed of this, and oppose you for
Mordaunt's advantage they will make Mordaunt
their confidant, and thus set a 'bitter enemy at'work

6GEO RG E M IUV IL L.  157


158         GIE ORGE MELVILLE.
to ruin George Melville. This must be prevented.
If we can keep entirely this visit and accident from
father and mother, it would be better. We will try
to, and if they discover it by accident, they will set
t down to our-own fear of frightening them. They
not return until some time in March. How for-
tuiate, Bell, I have never mentioned the affair in my
Washington letters! But we must not forget our
patient. Good night, Bell. I approve your choice.
If that will bring sleep to your heavy eye-lids, I
shall feel a conscience clear."
(We may as well here inform the reader of Hon. B.
F. Mortimer's reelection to Congress.)
"It will, dear brother! Call me, if necessary."
Kissing her brother, Bell retired to her pillow, but
not to sleep: a presentiment of coning evil "cast its
shadow over her souTl" making thought to glow with
intensity.
The' first week in April, Melville, accompanied by
Frederick Mortimer, although yet unable to use his
right limb; went by easy journeys to his home. His
history, sinceJanuary, detailed to Melville's parents
by Frederick, caused a sensation indeed. But the
battle :had been fought and the wounded .cared for.
Sympathy and sorrow were rendered,, therefore, un-
welcome. The joy of Melville's parents at his preser-
nation mingled with the pride which naturally would
flow:from sith an exhibition of true courage and.
manhood. In reply to repeated queries from his
father, George always insisted that he never knew
when or how he .had broken his leg. The only hy-
pothesis he offered on the subject was, that after he
had caught hold of the horse's mane, his:right leg
miight have struck upon the road.

4
*1

i
i[
i
i
C
i
i
4
l

xxIV.
Commencement Day at Hamilton College-William Hastings-How a
Clerk in New York City may obtain a Partnership.
"WELL, Tom, we are together once more, all safe
within the precincts of 'Almd aMter.' Sincere thanks
are due for all trials endured on my account. And
you say my absence has been voted necessary by the
august Faculty ; so that in the August month I shall
obtain my sheep-skin, in common with the class of
18-."
"Yes, George," replied Griswold, "but I have
been a miserable dolt about everything, else.  I
might have suspected you had broken your head or
understanding, and were too proud to acknowledge
it. A little exercise of mother wit might have ex-
cused me from college duty for the months of Janu-
ary, February and March, ini attendance upon your
broken leg.
" True ; anithen you would not have gained the
honor of having become, late in life, a reading man,"
replied Melville. "There goes the chapel-bellt lEx-
cuse me to the professor, on the plea of indisposition
to all upoi him. I go to dream-land instead of
recitation."
On the 27th of July, subsequent to the above con

GEOROGE MELVILLE-.      15

f"


100        QfEOREGE ' MELVILLE.

versation, the village of Clinton, in Oneida County
N. Y., was thronged with visitors from all parts of
the United States. We do not propose to give the
reader a description of the exercises at a college com-
mencement. However interesting such a theme
would, doubtless, prove, it has no place here. A
little circumstance, however, occurred on the occa-
sion referred to, which, although very trifling, was
important in its results. At 10 o'clock, A.M., a pro-
cession, consisting of the college students, members
of the Faculty, alumni, distinguished strangers, citi-
zens, etc , was formed in front of the Clinton Hotel,
preceded by a band of music.
"Ah, ".Iimball! Here at last !" said Thomas Gris-
wold to one of his classmates, whose arrival he had
been anxiously looking for.
"Yes; I am here physically, but absent mentally,"
returned his classmate.
Mr. Griswold, let me introduce to -you a young
friend who has come on to ridicule college life, -and
exalt the barter- and sale of trade," said Kimball.
"With pleasure," replied Griswold.
"Mr. Griswold-Mr. Hastings."
"I am   happy to make your acquaintance, Mr.
Hastings," said Griswold.
The young man, to whom Griswold was thus intro-
duced, was apparently about eighteen or nineteen
years of age; small in stature, having .lack hair
falling drom  his temples in graceful curls, black
eyes, a regular set of teeth, of exqpisite mould and
whiteness, eye-brows heavy and black, and,; com-
plexion clear and brilliant. Young Hastings acknow-
gedged the attention of Griswold with some constraint,
or;apparent reserve, which proceeded 'from   and

r;
i
s
9
tr
Ff

GEORGE MELVILL.               161
accorded well with his youth. The impression he
made uponpCriswold was favorable. Griswold, how-
ever, at the time thought no more of him. They
did not again meet in Clinton; but his peculiar,
almost feminine beauty, caused Griswold to bear
away Hastings's features upon his memory. Two
months subsequent to this incident, Griswold was a
law  student- in New York city. While passing
through Barclay street, one pleasant morning, whither
he had gone on behalf of-his- employers, to obtain
a clue to some facts- necessary to be proven in an
action at law then pending, he was suddenly accosted
by William Hastings.
"Good morning, Mr. Griswold," said Hastings.
"Ah, my friend Kimball's companion of Com-
mencement Day. I am very happy -to meet you.
When did you arrive in New York, sir?"
"Yesterday. I came by the Albany boat," replied
Hastings.
" Do you remain in town long? Call and see me,
if it shall prove convenient. My address, after 7
o'clock, r.at., is No.  Fourteenth street, or No.-
Wall street, during business hours. Have you decided
between study and work ?"
"Yes, sir. I am looking for a clerkship, in some
importing house. I have two offers already, but
they do dot please me fully. I have a large country
acquaintance, but find that a clerk in an importing
house needs an extended city acquaintance among
the heavy jobbers,; in order to command  a large
salary. That I lark."
"And that, 'my young find, I can give you, and
will do so with the greatest pleasure," interposed,
Grisrwold. "Get a good place to domesticate yone


162         GEORGE MELVILLE.
self, and rely on me, Hastings, for the acquaintance
and situation both. We will seek the situation first,
then attend- to making the acquaintances, and, in
s  inaonths, or a year, you can offer your own terms
as to salary, provided you are a worker. You are
young, but I will hope you will show an old head
upon young shoulders."
The plan here marked, Griswold immediately set
himself to work out. In this he was successful
beyondthe young man's best dream. He obtained for
him a clerkship in one of the oldest and best import-
ing houses in New York, and in six months had
introduced him to many of the best jobbers in the
city. At the end of one year, Hastings, by steady
and earnest application to business, through Gris-
wold's patronage, became an efficient salesman, and
commanded a salary at once of fifteen hundred per
annum.
Business in the larger cities is done on the prin-
ciple which the learned SA, in his political economy,
calls "Division of labor." Importers, jobbers, and
retailers are alike merchants. The importer brings
the foreign merchandise. This he wholeales to the
jobber. The jobber, in turn, wholesales it to the.
retailer,,. through whom the merchandise finally
reaches the consumer. Besides this, there are jobs
bers of exclusively American fabrics and  iainufac-
tures. In this case the home manfacturer holds the
relation of an importer towards the jobber. A very
few houses combine the three phases of the merchant.
To accomplish this position successfully, forms the.
exception to the great laws which govern trade, and
the instances are rare. - As the resources of the
United- States become more fully :developed, such

GEORGE MELVILLE.   163

instances will, doubtless, become unheard of. The
atmospheres wont mingle.
William Hastings, before he came to New York to
seek his fortune, had learned what every merchant
should know, viz., the duties of a clerk in a country
retail house. -"Energy, integrity, perseverance, fru-
gality," had been his motto, when, at sixteen years of
age, he became a clerk. It was instilled into him by
his father-a farmer (in rustic parlance) considered
by his neighbors to be "above board." He had now
been engaged nearly eighteen months in his new
capacity, and had formed a friendship for, Griswold'
which, planted in gratitude, sprouted and grew upon
a soil enriched by the noble motto which guided all
his actions. Early in April, the following year, he
called upon Griswold.
"Good morning, William. I am really happy to
see you at this particular hour, for I have got an
attack of ennui," said Griswold, as Hastings entered,
his office, at No. - Wall street.
" Good morning, Mr. Griswold. I have come in tol
say good@e to you."
"Good le ?---and what for, pray ?" said Griswold.
"I have planned a little trip for my own improve-
ment. Although my employers are men of thrift
and great experience, still they buy a great many
goods which are unsalable. There is some radical
mistake about all this, and I have determined to
attempt a solution of the problem, and, if possible,
get at the true answer. We have between thirty and
forty thousand dollars invested in goods which must
go at fifty per cent. below cost. True, it is a small
item, compared to the sum total of our importations;
.but I believe a loss of twenty thousand "dollars, in


G-EORGE MELVILLEi .    1l5

G]34ORG]B  EL YI.LLB.

this way, is wholly unnecessary. Our profits for the
ye arfoot up about two hundred thousand; but they
might, i4 my judgment, have reached twenty thou-
sand more:  I have about three hundred dollars
extra now, and propose to take a trip South And
West, endeavoring, on the way, to obtain a knob-
ledge of the state of the country ; what sections bid
fairto prosper next fall; what kind of fabrics they
will require; what are the habits of society in the
thrifty-looking counties; what will be the prevailing
fashions there; and, finally, to determine approxi-
mately the amount of, goods which the thrifty sec-
tions will require, and the proportion, according to
taste, fashion, education, and habits, between goods
intrinsically valuable, and goods which show valua-
able, but, intrinsically, are cheap. There is a chart
,of the South and West ready for my figures. What
do you think of the plan ?"
"It is good !-capital! Success to you, and draw
on me if you want more means," said Griswold.
The following day, Hastings left New York, upon
his projected tour, having obtained leave of absence
sufficient for his. purpose. He unfolded his plan to
none but Griswold. The success which rewarded his
efforts transcended his happiest anticipations. He
arrived again in New York, late one stormy night.
Onthefollowing morning, he asked of his employers
a private consultation, laid before them his chart,
gave a history of his trip, and marked, the conclu-
sions he.had arrived at.  Those experienced men,
from their long acquaintance with.travel, felt that if
Castings' judgment had been good, the conclusions
hedrew must be'of practical advantage. After two
days' consultation, they informed him of their resolve

to give his chart a trial. At all events, they argued,
the risk is small, for a loss of twenty or thirty thou-
sand dollars will be but a continuation of past his-
tory.  Their purchases were made as to quantity,
quality, and variety, according to the ratio indicated
by Hastings. This was a new principle, of action in
that house. Hitherto, their stocks had been pur-
chased to suit all parts of the country ; now they had
in store only such goods as Hastings had prophesied
would be wanted. The question to be solved was,
has Hastings judged well of the country?- When the
fall season was over, the following three facts ex-
pressed the result. Their shelves were almost empty;
their losses, by failure of jobbers to meet their pay-
ments, were not worthy an entry on the account of
profit and loss : William Hastings had laid the foun-
dation of his fortune; for, at the end of two years,
when only twenty-one years of age, he became, a
junior partner in the house, and the duty of princi-
pal buyer was assigned to him. He now spent nearly
all his time in travel, visiting. every part of the
United States, and going twice each year to Europe.
The second venture made upon his judgment was
even more successful. As each season was con-
cluded, rival houses envied the bare shelves of Blod-
gett, Johnston, Hastings &amp;' Co., and scolded their own
salesmen for their want of skill in selling goods for
which there was little call.

z
1
s


- GEOGE MELVILLE.    167

166     GEORGE MELVILLE.

Xxv.
A Friend in Need.
WHEN does the next steamer arrive ?" said Thomas
F. Griswold, about an hour after his father had
placed his signature to the instrument assigning all
his property to his creditors.
"I am not 'certain what day she is due, Thomas,"
replied his father, speaking in a half absent-minded
tone, and heaving a deep sigh.
Thomas Griswold leaned his head upon his hands,
and for a long time both son and father were engaged
with their own thoughts. Thomas was first to break
the silence.
"Father," said he, "I am going to be absent an
hour or two.  If Mr. Edgemonte calls, you know
what to say."-
"Yes, Thomas. I would not care for the property,
if it were not on your account. You, Thomas, are
all I have to remind me of the companion of my
youth-the wife and mother in heaven. It'is true,
Thomas, you have not lost a wife; but I know your
heart, and that it is broken."
"Not until my father has reaped some fruit from
his son's energies worthy the reaper's scythe nthen
: then  there will be time to think of Clara Edge.
Monte. She will be true to,. me! and more-hix

4

father will, be true to me. But accept nothing at his
hands. 'There he comes now." And Thomas hastily
left the room, and then the house, by the basement exit.
Taking an omnibus, he went to the counting-house
of "Blodgett, Johnston, Hastings &amp; Co."
" Mr. Blodgett ?" said Griswold.
"That is my name, sir," said the senior partner of
this firm, looking over his spectacles and placing
himself in attitude for listening to Griswold.
"Mr. William Hastings, I believe, sir, is a mem.
ber of your firm."
" He is, sir."
"Will you tell me when you expect him to ar-
rive in New York ?"
"He will be here in the evening train from Al-
bany."
"I thought he was in Europe, sir," said Griswold,
very happy at this information.
"He returned to America three weeks since, but
has been in Canada during that tie."
Griswold sat down and wrote a short note, which
he addressed to Hastings, and took his departure.
At an early hour the following day, Mr. Hastings
entered his counting-room. . All the partners were
to be present, to listen to a report of his trip. One
of the most important ventures ever made by. the
firm  was to be discussed.  Mr. Blodgett was. the
last to arrive. As he entered, he took Griswold's
note -from a letter-rack and handed it to Hastings.
The partners engaged in general conversation while
Hastings read;the following:
uMY DEAR FRIEND:                    "NEW Yoir,18--
"1 must see you the first moment practicable. Call at No.
WTall street.                  THoxIAs F. GRISWOP."

I

t

rf

t
1 .  : yr!
,                    t      *       t
'    
"                        ' S..':  FstM.


i8     GEOIGE MELVILLE.

GEOGE MELVILLE.   169

Hasvrga turned to his partners, and handing then
the notesaid-
"   ewillhate t&amp; postpone our consultation for an
hour., I mst maIe that call."
"Whiy, that is the son of James Griswold, who
madean assignment yesterday," said Mr. Johnston.}
"Has James Griswold assigned ?" said Hastings,
looking' up o the company with an earnest anxiety.
"Yes. Does he owe you anything.
"No,; but I do him, or his son rather." And iHast
ings seized his hat, leaving his partners so suddenly'
that they were lost in bewilderment.
Opening the front door, he hastily called loudly to
one- of the porters-
" John, tell Mr. Blodgett I shall return or send him
a note in an hour.-
*  *      *      *     *      *      *
" Mr. Griswold," said Hastings, as he entered his
office, " what is it about this assignment? *Tell me,
my dear friend. Has your father been ruined ? and
how?"
"Yes;, he has made an assignment. His assets
will not meet his liabilities.  I will give you a
history of the whole affair. He made an invest-
ni- ent-'" ----
"Is the story a long one ?" interrupted Hast-
ings.
" I may detain you an hour," replied Griswold.
"Very well; one, or two, or the day if necessary ;"
and seating himself at a table, he hastily penned a
note to Mr. Blodgett postponing the consultation for
he day, nd requesting him to remain at the store-
ready for service if he should want him.
thing that affects the firm, but somethus

which affects my friend, detains me," was the con-
eluding passage of his note.
It was nearly noon when Mr. Blodgett received a
second note from Hastings, requesting both him and
Mr. Johnston to call at N4. -Wall street. In half
an hour both gentlemen were seated in Griswold's
law office.
"Gentlemen," began Hastings, "my conduct this
morning requires some little explanation. About
three years since, I came to New York to seek my
fortune. Thomas F. Griswold, the gentleman to
whom I have just introduced you, took me by the
hand, and, through Mr. Edgemonte, obtained for me
a situation as clerk with Blodgett, John 1aon &amp; Co.
This same Thomas F. Griswold guided all my efforts
while a clerk in that house. Every day he added
some new and valuable acquaintance to my list. In
fact, he has made me what I am. You will both ac-.
knowledge that the profits of 'Blodgett, Johnston,
Hastings &amp; Co.' have been satisfactory since m, con-.
nection with the firm. Thomas Griswold is nowin
difficulty. His father has made an assignment: For
the want of a temporary loan, Mr. Griswold must go
entirely to the wall. If his son can borrow for that
period, he will save his father's property. Advance
this money, and take my share in the profits of the
firm as your security until the loan is refunded. I
know that either one of you can do it in twenty four
hours, and not feel it."
Hastings went on for some time explaining the
whole failure'
aThis: needs a good deal of money, my boy," said
Mr. Blodgett, who looked upon Hastings as a son
rath than as a partner;  u lnat f we male merchants

4


,Et ,
~7  '     ,K  r5
"
6
r
_       Lit'
s   1      k ,        '
,
i    -
_ s-
a               4
.   , , ,,

GEORGE MELVILLE.

of boys, we must expect boyish tricks sometimes. I
don't see any necessity of your asking Mr. Johnston
to put his foot into the matter. -He is a poor man,
William=-a poor man."
"He could raise that sum though," said Mr. John-
ston; " and to show you that you have none of you
seen all the breakers, there is my check for enough
to rebuild the house. Mr. Thomas F. Griswold can pay
it back to me when he likes; and Mr.. William Hast-
ings may continue to draw his profits as usual from
Blodgett, Johnston, Hastings &amp; Co.'s funds. I must
go, gentlemen. Blodgett, if you can't raise your
part, I'll try and lend it to you. Good afternoon,
for I'm getting hungry." And he left the office.
"ha! tha !" and Mr. Blodgett laughed quite im-
moderately for such an old gentleman. Then, put-
ting on his spectacles, replacing them two or three
times.to get them into proper position, looking over
them as many times at Griswold, scratching his head,
first on one side and then on the other, at last he
took up a pen and made a long calculation. He
then wrote out in full, upon -a piece of law paper, a
cheek. Handing it to Hastings, he said: "There ;
don't present that at the bank for two days. Those
bank men will think I've gone crazy. It is only
yesterday I deposited, and told them I didn't want
to use my funds for a month, unless something
turned up." -
t "IBut this sum is more than is necessary," said
Griswold, who had by this time received the check
from Hastings and read it.
"That's to pay the indorsements of your father.
H&amp; thinks more of them, young man, than he does.
he house, ships, stock, and all. And now, seeing

GEORflE MELVILLE.

171,

I've made such a- fool of myself, I've got a short
story to tell.
"In 18-, just thirty- two years ago, I was cramped
for twenty thousand dollars. I lost nearly forty thou-
sand in one year. Well, Jim Griswold was the man
who indorsed all my paper, and helped me through.
He's forgotten that, for he always was a man to for-
get such an act of kindness. You needn't tell him
anything about having old David Blodgett's check
now. You'd better find out if it goes at the bank.
William, go and call a carriage."
- "No, I will send," interposed Griswold. "James"
said he, calling his errand boy, "go and call a car-
riage immediately."
One week subsequent to this event, Thomas Gris-
wold entered his father's room, at the New York Ho-
tel, where they had'taken temporary quarters.
"There, father, is a little package that may inte-
rest you," said he.
Mr. Griswold laid down an old and well-thumbed
copy of the Holy Scriptures, carefully placing a mark
in the page he was reading.
"What is it, Thomas ?"
"Examine for yourself, sir, if you please."
"Notes ! Gordon's notes ! -IMy name, as indorser,
cancelled. suit discontinued! certificates of New
York Catfish Railroad Company. Contract! know
all men by these presents-between James H. Gris-
wold, of the first part, and John Vanderhuyden, mas-
ter builder, of the second part. - What is all this,
Thomas T"
It means that you are on your feet once more.
That's all. iPretty gogd week's work. Is it not,
.father ?" and Thomas could not restrain a tear:

1.70

S 1
ii
f   ii.
S
Ii
-i
~
3 , ,
1~
1,C
r.
P  I ,
ft c
'
-t
j}
,i
1 f f i
lj
r  .
; ' ,
}
.,
+'
i;    ,  r
's
t

',
;,   _Y ,                     '
:       ; -              , ,
,,     t
-
a,.
} ,
,li       '''  r       _     t'
s,
f                     'j
_               }, _     .
,-' '                    .
' :+      _          '       I
_y
';If    ?  V1               r
t - fS  i
?"          _
. Y. t  3% Y                  }        1
't 'rep      _


.  ;
;         s   "
. ?;'
}
._      ' ^
_      t    ,+
t
f
?      y,
_
1 ,      '  a
/       vt      i
L
1
{        ,
x_
S
t.
r
Y
.      t

"Week's work! what do you mean, my son?"
"Why, once upon a time, I did a little favor for a
friend nineteen years of age.  That. boy is now.
twenty-three years of age, and through his influence,
Mr. David Blodgett, and Mr. Jacob H. Johnston, his
partner, have loaned me, for one year, enough to ac-
complish it all. They will help you further if you need
more. I thought I might as well do up all the busi-
ness, and saVe you the toil," and Thomas's eyes grew
moist again in spite of himself.
"Well, well," said his father, wiping away a tear ;
"and there are four papers for you to copy. I shall
be here at seven o'clock this evening."
Some further explanations took place, when Mr.
Griswold, taking his hat, left the hotel, and proceed-
ed up Broadway.
"'What a boy !-put me on my feet !-what a boy !
He. shall have Clara now. .He has earned her. That
rascal, James Mordaunt, shall be foiled. His plans
are deep; but justice shall reach him.  Messrs.
Wright, and Pierce say they are satisfied Mordaunt
was :at the bottom of the depression. My eyes are
not yet entirely opened, for I cannot fathom the mo-
tive which has prompted Mordaunt to ruin me.
Edgemonte says he is at the bottom of it all. Edge-
monte may be mistaken."
He had arrived at Mr. Edgemonte's residence, and
rang the bell.
"Is Miss Edgemonte at home ?"
"She is, Mr. Griswold," replied the servant.
"Give her my name and compliments, if you
please; I wish to see her."
Clara came running down stairs so rapidly, that.
Mr. Griswold feared she would fall. Upon entering

the parlor, she threw her arms around his neck, and
affectionately kissed him. He fondly gazed at the
lovely girl, proud indeed, that the time was now not
distant when he might call her "Daughter."
"Clara, Thomas would scold me if he knew what
I was about. Go call your father. He must be pre-
sent at our interview."
Clara ran for her father. When Mr. Edgemonte
entered the room, Mr. Griswold was busy untying a
package.of papers.
"There, Mr. Edgemonte, look over that bundle,
and wonder as I did," said Mr. Griswold.
"Mr. Edgemonte did Wonder somewhat; but not
quite equal to Mr. Griswold's expectations. He for-
got entirely that Thomas's part in the drama had yet
to be enacted over by himself.
"That's all good. 'Puts you on your feet again?"
"Certainly."
Clara's eyes grew sparkling.
" How has this been done ?"
"Thomas has borrowed enough to arrange it all,
for one year, on his simple notes, and about one hour
since he handed these papers to me."
".Thomas Griswold borrow on his simple notes?
When did he do it ?" said MrEdgemonte, with un-
feigned astonishment.
"The day after I made my assignment. He did it
all without my knowledge ; and, but half an hour
since, handed me all these papers. Now I go into
business again."
"And I am the silent partner in the new firm,"
said Mr. Edgemonte.
"Then it shall be James H. Griswold &amp; Co.,"'
said Mir. Griswold.

17GOE GE MEL VILLE.1

172

173

GEORGE MELVILLE.


174  '   GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE.   17i

"And I am to have no interest in the new firm, I
suppose," said Clara.
"Certainly not," replied Mr. Edgemonte. "fWe
shall have to establish another concern altogether in
order -to make you a partner. I think now, however,
you might as well go on arranging a certain ward-
robe: I am in no particular haste to get rid of my
daughter; but I am anxious to have Thomas for my
son. His help may be necessary to me some day."
0

r
XXVI.-
New York City Corporation Counsel-All Marriage INotiees not
agreeable.
ABOUT three weeks after the incidents occurred
with which the last chapter concludes, James Mdr-
daunt was spending an evening with his aunt at her
residence. He had returned to New York from a
visit at Aurora.
"Now, James," said his aunt, "sit down and tell
me, the news. You know I am not posted in any-
thing which has happened since I left Aurora."
"Mr. Mortimer has at last drawn from Bell, or
rather from her brother, Frederick Mortimer, the
real motive which causes her to refuse me."
"Go on, James, it grows interesting. George
Melville "
"No, aunt, George Melville has nothing to do
with it. A girl in Brooklyn, whom you will remem-
ber, named Mary Wilcox, having had a daughter by
somebody, has commenced a suit against me, alleging
that I am her husband; that I assumed the name of
Sanders, that one Rev. John Furnace married- us,
that I was disguised as a sailor. Those are the prin-
cipal facts alleged in the complaint. Frederick gave
all the particulars to his father, and asked 1im if he
had not better learn the truth of :this story against


176  OE0 E  MELvLGEORGE                 MEL LE..7

me before he insisted too strongly upon his daugh-
ter's marrying against her will."
"Mr. Mortimer asked you about them. What was
your reply ?" said his aunt.
"I satisfied him that the hole story was got up by
Mary Wilcox's uncle to e tort money from me."
"Did you ask Mr. Mortimer who was Frederick's
informant ?" said Mrs. Tryon.
Yes."
"It was "-
"Thomas Griswold," interrupted Mordaunt. "Fre-
derick had the whole story in a letter written by
Griswold off the second day after his father made an
assignment."
"Griswold, then, suspects your agency in the
stock operation. How much did you make out of
that ?"
" Twenty-seven thousand dollars."
"iVery. good!  I do not see as you have lost
any advantage. You are that handsome sum ahead,
and as fair a field as you had three years since to win
the race- yet. What will you do with Mr. Thomas
F. Griswold, for, his meddling? I understand he is
a newly fledged lawyer."
"Yes, and a growing one, too," replied Mordaunt.
"He was appointed to 'the responsible position of
_Corporation Counsel' last week.  William Hast-
ings, a junior partner of 'Blodgett, Johnston, Hast-
ings &amp; Co.,' was the wire-puller who secured it to
Griswold. Considerable objection was made ,to his
youth; but his abilities as a lawyer are known to be
fair, and almost any amount of sympathy was
aroused among the heavy merchants on account of
his father's failure. There was searcelya merchant

in New Y ork of any respectability who could be got
to oppose the appointment. They said Griswold had
failed as an honest man should fail, and many not
only signed. Hastings's petition to the .Common
Council, but went personally and used their-influence
with members of the board."
" All that is very interesting, but what are you
going to do with young Griswold ?"
" I do not know," said Mordaunt, assuming a
thoughtful mien. "I shall wait and watch."
"Meanwhile the birds will mate vi et armis,,and
without the usual ceremony of a wedding at home.
No! no ! James, you must be up and doing."
" What do you propose, my dear aunt ?" said
Mordaunt.
"If you can do nothing better, try the young
lawyer as a criminal," said Mrs. Tryon.
" As a criminal!?" said Mordaunt, with surprise.
"Yes. Some one disguised to personate Thomas
F. Griswold might present a forged check at one of
the banks in Wall street, for instance."
" Ttat is a difficult game; but it might be done by
careful study. It would be necessary to deceive the
officers of the bank perfectly; and it would require
to be done when Griswold could not prove an alibi.
I'll think it'over."
"You might accomplish this, it seems to me, as
well as you enacted the young sailor."
"Oh! but I was younger then," said Mordaunt.
"Yes, and that is why I overlooked the affair. 1
regarded it, you know, as your wildest bushel of
oats. But I really hope they are not going to sprout
'Iow.e
" I have 'no' fears about- it;" replied Mordaun~t.'

GEORGE ; 31,L LVILL.E.     -17rl


17$     GEORGE  E MELVILLE.

"V ery well, then. Now you may do whatever
you like. I must read the papers"
The aunt and nephew sat a half hour in silence,
when Mrs. -Tryon, imitating a court-crier, 'aroused
Mordant from a deep reverie.
"Hear ye ! hear ye ! hear ye!"
"I am all attention; what is it ?" said Mordaunt.
" GRISwoLD-EDGEMONTE.-At ten1 o'clock this morning, in
church, by the, Rev. Dr.--, Thomas F. Griswold, Esq., only son
of Mr. James H. Griswold, to Clara, only daughter of Mr. H. B. Edge-
monte, all of this city."
"'Sdeath ! what do you mean ?"
"Keep cool, good sir. It is just as I read. And
now, please recall my prediction.  The real battle, I
am satisfied, will be against George felville. You
have been outwitted by Bell Mortimer, Frederick
Mortimer; and George Melville; and I do not pity,
though I won't desert you," said Mrs. Tryon.
"You are right, as usual," said Mordaunt, laying
aside the paper.
" What will you do now ?" said his aunt.
"You had better retire, for I must spend an hour
Ln thought. I will advise with you in the morning."

XXYIL.
Sarah E. Graham's call at Mordaunt's Law Office-A cool Scene-
James Mordaunt in trouble.
ON the day subsequent to his evening's interview
with Mrs. Tryon, Mordaunt went early to his office.
His partners were both absent from the city. He
had been seated but a few moments, when a female,
apparently about twenty-two or three years of
age entered. She removed a thick veil and took
the seat which Mordaunt offered. Her countenance
had not yet lost its traces of beauty.  But suffering,
remorse and despair, were doing their fatal work!
"It is now some weeks since we have met,
James."
"You keep the run of time better than I, Sarah."
" My race is almost run, James. I have-no one to
blame for my sins but myself. It is true you taught
me to love and took advantage of my affections ; but,
had I listened to a mother's voice, I should have
resisted. I have not come, however, to upbraid
you."
"iDo you wish more money ?"
"No! I have done using the wages of sin, and
.have come to perform a duty to another of your
victimS."1
"What mean you, SarahI " said Mordaunt,
quickly.

GEORGE MELVILLE.      I7)


GOREMLLL.GEORGE IELVILLE.  181

"Mary Wilcox, alias Mary Sanders, alias Mary
Mordaunt, is your lawful wife.  You must own
her to the world-    Stop sir ! Don't dare lock
that door! As sure as you are now a living man, you
shall be a dead one the moment you turn the key,"
and Sarah very coolly played with the handle of a
small revolver which she pointed towards Mordaunt,
who had arisen for the purpose of locking 'the. door.
"Sarah! put up that weapon. Who has taught
you the use of such an instrument ?"
"The man who took me from my home, and taught
me to drink the cup of sin. He placed me where
such little friends are necessary. I can hit any but-
ton one your coat. Name one, James. Put up a
penny! come! you shall see I do not boast. You
wont,lock the door, will you? ,You are very kind.
But, as I was saying when you interrupted me-
Mary Sanders is your lawful wife. You must own
her to the world, give her a support, and acknowledge
your beautiful little daughter. Perhaps God will
hear some prayers in my behalf if I make you do
;justice to that one of His little ones."'
"Why! Sarah Grahani! what evil spirit has taken
possession of you ?" asked Mordaunt. "'Why should
you become a demon to annoy and persecute me?"
"Perhaps I am jealous, James. You remember
your last words, when I first yielded to the oily tongue
and skillful actor, were: 'Sarah, it is my love, my'
unchangeable love which impels me to this act.' You
see, have remembered them exactly. Is the 'green-
eyed .e' a demon, James $?"
"Pshaw! Sarah, you are not jealous. Why did'"
1ohelp me get up the plan of a mock marriage
ith Mary Wilcox, if jealousy troubled you ?"

"Mock marriage! Oh,no! Have never arranged
any mock marriages, except in my own case. There
was some mockery, it is true, when I married you.
We then made a mockery of what I once learned to
say over at Sabbath-school, when an innocent little
girl. Perhaps you can repeat the seventh command-
ment, James ?"
"Sarah Graham, what lave you come here for ?"
said Mordaunt, very much alarmed at the cool man-
ner assumed by his strange client.
"You will promise then, James, to acknowledge
your marriage with-Mary Wilcox."
"Woman-you are crazy ! If that "
"Perhaps Iam," interrupted Sarah  "Mary Wil-
cox will be soon, you know-     She has grown
pale and thin. I do not think it would be possible
for you to visit her without having sympathies excit-
ed in her behalf."
"Sympathies ! Sarah. If that is all you have- to
say to me, the sooner you leave, the better."
"Very well! it was a long way down to your.
office, but, I am suffciently rested. I may as well
bid you good morning. You know I live at No. -
Twenty-third street."
"Yes ! I shall have no desire to see you again on
this subject."
Sarah Graham left Mordaunt's office.  As she
descended to the ground floor of the building, she
noticed that one of the lower rooms was' vacant.
The door being open, she entered it for the Purpose
of arranging her dress. Her habits of life for several
years had taught her to know nothing of fear. The
blinds were closed. On the south sideof the rbon
was a large closet. Within it, at the west end, was

. '       'GE-QRG}E MELYILLE.


GEORGE MELVILLE.

a board partition. Sarah heard some-foot-steps, evi-
* dently descending from Mordaunt's office. Noticing
the closet, and not desiring to be seen in the vacant
room,'she entered it and stood eagerly watching for
the person, or persons, to pass out of the hall
door, of which, from her position, she had a full
view.
Instead of seeing any one pass out of the door, as,
she expected, a rough-looking man, with a small
head, black hair, black eye, and short in stature,
entered the hall from the court. At the same moment
Mordaunt's form appeared within Sarah's range of
vision.
" Ah I Good morning, Mr. Shank ;" said Mor-
daunt.
"Good morning, squire !" returned Shank, with,
an-effort to accomplish a polite bow, touching his
hat and calling up, what he determined should prove
to be a smile of respect, but which ended in an
affectionate patronizing leer.
Mordaunt's self-love and prides were ill controlled
to brook the patronizing airs of the man -before him;
but, at that moment, the word "Fear," was impressed
in large characters upon his mind's eye, quickening
both his natural and acquired power of dissimulation
-Bob Shank consequently discovered no traces of
the pride which would have spurned his contact.
Again, Mordaunt knew that he had work for the
villain to execute..
" Iam in some haste, Mr. Shank ; but, if you have
anything of importance, I will try to devote a little
time to you," said Mordaunt..
"I've only few words, to say, as yit. Thim, how-
s'ever; is of some consequince."

tI

182

I

r

"Step into this room, Mr. Shank. We shall be
entirely alone here," said Mordaunt.
Sarah Graham had crouched herself in the darkest
corner of the closet, behind the partition. Thus far
she had heard all of the conversation which had
passed between Mordaunt and Shank. It was not
her desire to play the eaves-dropper; but, she did
not care to be discovered in the room. -
"Now, Mr. Shank, let me hear from you. We are
alone here."
"Let me 'xamine the quarters first. Walls, some-
times hev ears, you know."
Shank made a survey of the room. At last he ap-
proached the closet. Sarah Graham's heart beat a
little faster; but she determined to put a bold face
on the matter, if discovered. It was fortunate, if in-
deed a discovery was of any great consequence to
her, that Shank was not very minute in his examina-
tion of the closet. He opened the door, walked into'
it ; ran his hand to some extent along the wall, and
pronounced all right. His search seemed to be
prompted rather by habits of caution than any real
fear of listeners.
"It's all right; but one had better know about
these matters, squire," said Shank.
"Certainly, certainly" replied Mordaunt.
Oftentimes the most skillful plans for evil are
thwarted by as simple apparent means as the dis-
arrangement of a woman's costume. Who- shall
make the great world of mind believe that He who
lets not  a sparrow fall on the ground without
Him, is not the master builder of' every counterplot
for the right ? But go on, James Mordaunt ! Hope,

183-

GEORGE MELVILLE.


184     GEORGE MELVILLE.

courage, ambition, energy, position, influence, power,
wealth, and a giant intellect; cluster around your
bro.  Hath the "Father of Lies" placed his iron
grasp upon your.soul so firmly that "'Truth" strives
in vain to open his palm?_
"Sarah Graham! What folly has aroused her to
cross my path.?  I have always treated her well.
On my means she has lived in ease and indepen-
dence for eight years. Thus far I have allowed her
to make her own bed, and she has chosen it soft and,
luxurious. Let her beware ! If I must become her
lady's maid, the. counterpane which the 'Iight of the
harem' might have envied, 'shall be changed for a
winding-sheet."'
Such were some of the thoughts which occupied
James Mordaunt, as he rode in an omnibus to his
aunt's residence, that day, at the conclusion of
business hours.  This was not the conclusion of
ki3 business, however. Having finished the usual
evening meal, he retired to his room. The hour was
too early for his purpose.  Lighting a cigar, he
seated himself in a large arm-chair, the soft velvet
cushion of which, so suggestive of quiet and repose,
accorded but ill with the terrible thoughts which
made the red stream of life to course quickly in his
system.
"This condition is not to the purpose," said Mor-
daunt. "Sarah Graham should never have awakened
sndia throbbing in my veins. It is the same blood
hichahas coursed, even more swiftly, under the,
gentle touch of her rosy-Tips. Ha! that mirror
shovs ghat I do ot wear the smile which won her love.
Kn Sarah. it shall not be a smile of hate and re-

Bi

t
J"
r
t
x

venge. But I will see her. She must listen to com-
mon sense. What can have enlisted her in Mary
Wilcox's favor? Nine o'clock I" Mordaunt aroSe.
"Good bye, my dear aunt; I must out tg-night."
" Not to-mrorrow night again, sir. We go to Mrs.
McDonough's party, you will remember."
"Certainly," said Mordaiunt, as he left his aunt's
residence. He took his way to a small but handsome
house in Twenty-third street. Having arrived, he
rang the bell. There was no response. He pulled
again. Still no response.
"The lady who lives there, shure," said a servant
girl, standing at the gate of the next house, "left
this afthernoon, and ain't in at all."
" Why did you notice her so particularly?" asked
Mordaunt.
"Bekase, sure, she tuk away sax thrunks, and a
sight o' boxes and band-boxes. She's gone to some
o' the watherin' places, they said."
" Who said, my good woman ?" asked Mordaunt.
"Biddy Burns, her girl, that wint with her;
shure."
"Did she say when her mistress would return?"
asked Mordaunt.
"Yes, sir. Biddy Burns said they was goin' to be
afther livin' in another place, and wasn't coming' back
at all."
Mordaunt waited to hear no more. He walked
away from the house. In about an hour he retui-ned.
This time his approach was made with care, lest he
should be- observed. Having gained the front en-
trance, he took a key from his pocket, and opened
they door. Striking a light, he looked into the par-

GEORGE MELYIL-LE.      x

f
r
F
1
.


186    GEORGE MELVILLE.

JN

A deep oath was the first effect which the perusal
of Sarah Graham's note produced. The second was
to fill Mordaunt's mind with terrible forebodings, and
his frame with the tremor of ungovernable fear. Be
threw himself upon the bed, and devoted himself
to the solution of that problem ever most difficult to
the villain : How shall Icut the meshe8 of Heaven 9
It has never been solved, "but for a season."

JAMES :

No. -- TWENTY-THIRD STREET, NEW YORK, -----218t 18-.

Doubtless you will seek for me some evening, as usual. You
will find an empty house. Love's dalliance is at an end. When you
have concluded to do justice to Mary Mordaunt and your beautiful
little daughter, write me a note to that effect, and leave it with
J. ;S. Taylor, esg., No. -  Wall street. You shall have ample time
to accomplish this. I shall make no haste. BE WARNED!
SARAHI E. GAHAM.

s:;,

I

lore. Everything was as usual. He then ascended
to the second story. Entering the front apartment,
he lighted a gas-burner. .The room was in perfect
order, and most elegantly furnished. James Mor-
daunt Was troubled. For the first time in his life, he
began to regret. His reflections were not the off-
spring of repentance. As he looked into his soul, he
acknowledged to himself that in Sarah Graham he had
one to deal with who knew him thoroughly; and he knew
she could ruin him. Fear, then, caused his regret.
"Who has prompted Sarah Graham to this
course ?" he said aloud.
The question was answered, but not then ; the rich
furniture and pictured walls which heard it, but a few
Hours before had listened to the bitter anguish of Sarah
Graham, gazing upon the hideous visions-of her wick-
edness, with sight rendered keen by the angel of re-
pentance. As yet that beautiful angel had only ho-
vered in her presence, whispering with the "still small
voice," "Daughter, there is peace even for thee."
As ]ordaunt went towards a dressing-bureau, for
the purpose of examining to see if Sarah had taken
her wardrobe, his eye fell upon a small note, bearing
his name on the outside in her hand-writing.
Hastily breaking the seal, he read the following:

P

GEORGE MELVILLTL.   187


GEORGE MELVILLE..

XXV.HI.
George Melville under a Cloud.
"Goon morning, Squire Brownson. I hope you
are not very busy this morning."
"Good morning, Mr. Fellows," said the police
justice ,of the city of T  ,in the State of New
York, who was thus addressed by the cashier of the
O     Bank, as Squire Brownson.
" I have called to get some of your assistance. A
young man, who has been stopping for a fortnight at
3i   's Hotel, presented a check, day before yes-
terday, which was paid at our bank. It purports to
be drawn by 'Sherman, Hollett &amp; Davis.' They
have pronounced it a forgery. The young man is a
graduate of Hamilton College. He left by the after-
noon run for the West, day before yesterday.
"We .shall have to take your affidavit in the
latter, Mr. Fellows," said the justice..
"Please draw it, sir," replied Mr. Fellows.
In a few moments Justice Brownson prepared the
following affidavit,. which was duly subscribed and
sworn to. We give it verbatim.
STATE OF NEW YORK,
O .FCowounty
Jonathan B. Fellows, of the city of U--, in said County, and

GEORGE MELVILE.

State, being duly sworn, deposes and says that he is a banker, doing
business as a cashier of tb 0- Bank in said city; that on the -
ay of-, 18-, one George Melville, to this deponent personally/
known, between the hours of two and three o'clock, r. ., presented
at the counter of the said.0---Bank, a check, of which the follow-
ing is a true copy : " ---, 18--, $625.; Cashier of the 0- Bank:
Pay George Melville or bearer Six Hundred and Twenty Five Dollars.
SHERMAN, HOLLETT &amp; DAVIs ;" that the said check was duly honored
and paid by one James B. Norris, the paying teller of said 0--
Bank; that the said check is pronounced by each and every of the
partners of the said firm of Sherman, Hollett &amp; Davis to be a forgery;
and this deponent, upon information and belief, pronounces the same
to be a forgery. And further this deponent says not.

Sworn this - day of
-,18-,

(Signed,) JONATHAN B., FELLOWS..

Before me,
J. B. BROWNSON, Justice of the Peace,
in and for the county of O
Upon this affidavit, Justice Brownson issued his
warrant against the body of George Melville. It
was given to an officer, with directions to arrest
Melville wherever he might be found.
"The young rascal has about forty hours the start
of you," said the justice to the constable ; "but with
due diligence you can overtake him. Telegraph dis-
patches have been sent to every city on the line.
Don't show him any favor because he has played up
' big gentleman."'
With these instructions the officer started. At the
village of Cayuga, he obtained the first clue of Mel-
ville. He there learned that a person answering the
officer's description had taken the steamboat the day
before. His informant was so certain in the matter
that the officer determined to follow. On board the
$ti nrboat his information was confirmed, and le

183

199


190     GEORGE MELVILLE.

also learned that Melville had left the boat at Au.
rora. We will leave the officer of justice to make,
his trip to Aurora, while the reader becomes ac-
quainted with some of George Melville's movements.
Two years subsequent to Ms graduation from col-
lege, George Melville received a diploma as Doctor
of Medicine from the Medical College in Berk-
shire County Massachusetts. His father had desired
that he should have the benefit of a year devoted to
study in Europe. For this purpose, George made a
visit to Paris and remained nearly that time. He
had just returned from Europe, at the time James
Mordaunt met him in the cars at Auburn, in com-
pany with his sister, cousin, and Thomas Griswold,
During the visit at Aurora which followed, he had
asked Bell Mortimer's hand of her parents. The re-
quest had been refused.  Mr. Mortimer had informed
Melville that his connection with his family would
not be acceptable. George and Bell had parted with
mutual promises to wait until every difficulty could
be removed. George pledged his heart and hand
to Bell-Bell had accepted the trust and given a
pledge equally sacred.
Melville now made Thomas Griswold his confidant.
Clara Edgemonte had already possessed Belt's secret,
and Bell had learned from Clara the history of Marys
Wilcox. Clara, acting under the former advice of
her father, had counselled Bell to make no mention
of the affair until further developments. Thomas
Griswold's letter to Frederick Mortimer, written sub-
sequent to the failup&amp;f Mr. Griswold, had produced
its effect upon Bell's father. Frederick, under Mr.
Mortimer's directions, had visited New York. His

visit had been entirely unknown to Mordaunt. He
had made his inquiries first of Mr. Taylor, Mary
Wilcox's counsel, and then of Mary wilcox herself.
Clara Edgemonte had given him the history of her
first meeting with Mary Wilcox. Mr. Taylor showed
him a written statement, signed by John Furnace,
clergyman, and verified by his affidavit,. to the effect
that he had performed the marriage ceremony for
a young sailor, calling himself Henry Sanders, and
Mary Wilcox; that in James Mordaunt he had recog-
nized the person who personated the, young sailor;
that he was the more certain in this particular from
the fact that he had noticed two moles on the back
of the young-sailor's neck, which made an impression
upon him at the time of the marriage ; that James
Mordaunt had two moles upon him precisely similar
in size, shape, and position; that, at Mr. Taylor's re-
quest, lie had watched the said Mordaunt in the
street, until he had obtained a fair and full view of
the said moles. In addition to this testimony, Mr.
Taylor handed, for Frederick's perusal, the following
note, traced in a beautiful but peculiar hand-writing,
evidently that of a-female:

NEW YORK, --- 18,'.

SIR:

T. S. Taylor, esq.

I have learned that you are in search of evidence to establish
the claims which Mary Wilcox and her daughter have upon James
Mordaunt, as a husband and father. Pursue your course steadily and
patiently. The claims are valid. She was married to James Mor-
daunt under the assumed name of Henry Sanders. He was disguised
as a sailor. The= ceremony was performed on the --  day of-,
t8-., at 10 o'clock, P.m.  Of that ceremony I was an unbidden
witness. The place where the marriage was celebrated I shall keep
secret, because it is unnecessary as a link in the evidence, and would

GEORGE MELVILLE.   191


2GEOR GE' MELVILE.

193

enable you to discover me-; but, that you may at once place cont.-.
deunce in this note, although it bears only my initials, and is therefore
anonymous, I will give you the name and residence of the clergyman
who officiated. Ifis Rev. John Furnace, now residing at No. ----
Washington street, Brooklyn. There are reasons why I cannot' trust
you with my full confidence. .Again I say, pursue-your course steadily
and patiently. You shallnsucceed, even tough I have to appear as a
witness in the ease. And finally, let these words be ever uppermost
in your mind, cheering you on in the noble effort to give virtue its
just reward, ".M death cannot avail James fordautt in his villainy,"
S.E.G.
That note seems conclusive, but I do not like the
anonymous character which the writer has assumed,"
said'Frederick. '
"That, my young friend," replied         Mr. Taylor,
under ordinary circumstances, would be my judg-
ment; but in this instance, the mystery under which
the author has shrouded herself, for I think the
writer a female, gives to every sentence a double
force."
" How so? I cannot perceive it," said Frederick.
"That note, Mr. Mortimer, I received on the       -
d1ay/of."
"That is the same 'day," interrupted Frederick,
"James Mordauit' arrived with his aunt at Aurora.
He   received a telegraphic dispatch      and left my
father's house immediately, not even waiting to finish
his dinner, although a plate had just been handed
to bixp, filled with all the necessaries for a generous
meal."'
"That may become a significant fact, Mr. Mor-
timer.   I will make a note of it."   Laying aside his
pen, Mr. Taylor continued: "That note, Mr. Mor-
tiiner, I"received on the -        day of  -.     Tp to

that time, every effort to obtain testimony in favor
of Mary Wilcox's story had proved abortive.
That note has unravelled the web. It is true, Mr.
Furnace has most mysteriously and suddenly dis-
appeared, but we have his affidavit, which, in a
reasonable time, will be allowed as testimony,
even though we cannot prove the death of the
deponent."
" His death !" exclaimed Frederick.
"I have some strange suspicions, Mr. Mortimer,
but it is unnecessary to :give them words. If we
could prove that John Furnace was deceased, his
affidavit would at once assume a' grave importance.
I have had some of the most skillful men in the
police force of New York and Brooklyn engaged,
secretly tracing Mr.' Furnace for the last month.
Chief JIM-I seldom fails me, and his whole ener-
gies are aroused in this matter. Nothing pleases
him better than to see a wronged woman hold her
own against a deep'villain."
"May you prosper in this cause, Mr.'Taylor," said
Frederick, shading .his eyes with his hand, and
devoutly, but silently, thanking the Supreme Being
for rescuing his beloved sister from the arms of a
black-hearted scoundrel. , '" It- is such duty, sir,
which elevates your profession far above every
employment known among men. You attack Satan
face to face-steel to steel-blood - for blood. Al1'
heaven and hell witness the conflict ;" and Frederick
Mortimer grasped Mr. Taylor's hand with the nervous
energy of a man who felt what he uttered, and bade
him good bye.
"C ommand my purse, Mr. Taylor, to any extent

4 w

Ii

GEORGE MEELVILLE.

192


194 ,GnORGE MELVILLE.                                                       GEORGE MEVIL
you may require. My father's money, if not his
influence, shall assist you when necessary," were
Frederick's last words as he left Mr. Taylor's
Moffice.
The Metropols of America never sleeps--
street late at Night.
WE now return to James Morda
At two o'clock in the morning
couch, where, for the first time, h
to fear. Sleep had not visited
patient study, he had formed hi
o'clock in the morning he entered b
Calling up a man-servant, he disp
for Bob Shank, giving minute dire
That worthy received the message
sure, and obeyed it promptly, proud
which Mordaunt placed in him.
had formed an exalted opinion,
talent, skill, and plotting, the m
acquaintance. He was ever ready
of Mordaunt/s schemes, for he felt
and he knew practically they pai
of his own enterprises.
The work now before Shank plea
He was to spend a few days at No
street, and watch whether Sarah
one sent by her, should not ret
Mordaunt, and, as the event proved
that Sarah, having left in such

LE.          196
Scene in Twenty-third
ut.
he arose from the
e had lain a prey
As eyelids. After
s plan. At three
is aunt's residence.
)atched a message
ctions to find him.
;e with great plea-
d of the confidence
Of Mordaunt he
regarding him, in
caster-mind of his
to enter into any
they must be safe ;
d better than any
sed him especially.
). -, Twenty-third
Graham, or some
urn to the house.
[wisely, calculated
haste; might have

I


196    GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE.   197

forgotten some little keep-sake,or article of necessity.
In that event,- he argued to himself:
She will return to the house or send."
Bob Shank's instructions were, to allow any one
who might enter, to have free access into every
part of the house. If Sarah herself came, he was to
arrest her. If she sent, he was to follow her messen-
ger. At six o'clock, Shank was at his post. He
watched patiently all that day, but no one came.
At night, 'he occasionally fell into a doze ; but the
least noise would instantly awaken him. At about
eleven o'clock, the noise of a key in the lock aroused
him. He was in the front parlor, and instantly
retired .by the back parlor to the hall, and so into
the basement. The alarm, however, proceeded from
Mordaunt himself. As soon as Mordaunt was inside
the door, he called aloud to Shank.
g "Oh, it's you, squire ! I thought I was about
-to larn something we wanted to know." The two
descended into the kitchen, leaving the doors open,
in order to detect any noise.
"Well, Mr. Shank, I have matured my plan about
that especial friend of yours, who treated you and
your friend to a bullet a-piece about three years
since. It is a long road which has no turning."
Good!, And I haven't done with young Gris-
wold yet," said Shank.
That is as you choose, Mr. Shank," replied Mor-
daunt. "My promise has been redeemed in his case,
and now I have matured the plan for 1Velville. He
is to-day stopping at the Astor House. I overheard
a conversation between him and a friend, in which
he said that he was going to the city of U-----.

I

He has some business to attend to- for his father
at that place, which, he said, would occupy a, fort-
night. To-morrow, he takes the boat -for Albany.
Now, instead of having Ggorge Melville present a
forged check at a bank in this city, as I said yester-
day, my plan is, that he shall do it at the city of
U     . I have this afternoon pointed him out to
Barstow, the tailor, who, you know, is one of the
'Ever FaithfuL' Barstow has picked out Harding,
who is. just Melville's height and size, and has the
same colored hair, eyes, and whiskers, to present the
check. Melville has got one very peculiar coat,
which he wore to-day. Doubtless, he will wear that
coat soon at U   . If he wears it but once, it will
be enough to identify him. But, if the check can
be presented the same day he wears the coat, and, if
possible, when Melville is taking an afternoon nap,
so as to prevent his proving an alibi; he can't escape
a term in State Prison."
"Well, squire, that plan beats any you've made
yet. All I am to do is to aid Harding, and then on
the trial I may swear to enough to fill up any extra
links for the district attorney."
That is a very good suggestion,",said Mordaunt.
"I'll buy a draft just before the check is pre-
sented," said Shank. " How about the check !"
" There it is! 'Sherman, Hollett &amp; Davis,' of
the city of U-  , are our clients, and the signature
to that check would deceive even Mr. Sherman him-
self. No matter who wrote it."
Of course not," said Shank. "What day must
I start e"
"Tuesday of next week."


198     GEORGE MELVILLE.

" Hark 1"' whispered Shaik.
An unmistakable click, as of the insertion of a key
into the lock of the front door, arrested their atten.
tion. Both went instantly into the front basement.
"There's a carriage in the middle of the road,"
whispered Shank.
Light footsteps were now heard ascending the
hall stairs.
"We must pin the girl, and then consult about the
driver," whispered Shank.
They softly ascended towards the front bed-room.
As they reached the second story hail, the glimmer-
ing light of a burning match cast its reflection
through the door. Mordaunt first looked in and,
recognized Sarah.  Shank instantly, but with the
stealthy tread of/ a cat, entered the room. Mor-..
daunt remained in the hall. When Shank entered,
Sarah Graham touched the lighted match to a gas-
burner. The bright light for an instant dazzled her
eyes, and involuntarily she shaded them with her
right hand. At this instant Shank seized her. His
right hand he placed firmly over her mouth ; with,
the left he roughly grasped her form; and the next
moment she was lying with her back on' the floor, his
right knee on her breast, his left knee pinioning her
right arm, his left 'hand holding her left wrist, and
his right hand still upon her mouth. She struggled
but feebly; for had she possessed strength to resist an
expected attack, now it was unavailable from fright.
Mordaunt at this instant entered the room, and in a
few moments Sarah Graham lay helpless upon: the
floor, bound and gagged.
"Lift her on the bed," said Mordaunt.

This being done, the two fiends silently left the
room. Descending .to the front parlor, they held a
short consultation.
" If nothing else will do," said Shank, "1'l make
mince-meat of that driver. Is this a case of enough
importance to run that risk ?"
"Not if anything else can be done," said Mordaunt.
" Then I will take care of him in my own way,"
said Shank.
Going to the street door, Shank accosted the driver
with a rough, but intended-to-be-polite, "good even-
ing, sir..
"Good avening to yourself, sure," said the hack-
man.
Shank noticed that the moon was under a heavy
cloud. Of course'the street lamps were not lighted.
These facts induced him to alter his plan, which had
been to take the life of the driver; then to place his
body on the driver's seat and set the horses to run-
ning. Shank was a desperado who knew no fear,
and who held life cheaply. His hands reeked with
the blood of many victims. He was satisfied that be-
cause of tie darkness of the street, he could talk with
the man and not be discovered. The darkness saved
the man's life.
"What on earth has brought Miss Sarah home at
such an hour, I wonder?" said Shank, as he advanced
into the middle of the street.
" Faith and I couldn't be afther telling that same,"
said the driver. "I met her in front ov the Astor
Iouse, be the Park. Is she going down agin? -She
towld me to wait 'till she cum out. Perhaps, shure,
she's only gone in for the tin shillings."

GEORGE MELVTLLE.    199


'200         GEO'RGE MELVILLE.
"I'll go and see if that's the case," said Shank.
This conversation satisfied Shank that the driver was
entirely ignorant of Sarah, or her purposes. Acting
upon this judgment, he entered the house, and hav-
ing waited a reasonable time, came out with the
money.
"Here's the money. The lady couldn't find her
purse," said he.
The hackman, on receiving his ten shillings, imme-
diately drove off.
"Is the door locked, Mr..Shank ?" said Mordaunt.
"4All's right. You can talk to the girl now."
Mordaunt immediately ascended to the room where
Sarah Graham lay bound hand and foot. He care-
fully examined her dress for any weapons which she
might have about her person. With the exception
of the small revolver which he had seen once before,
she appeared to be unarmed. With his pocket-knife
'e cut the thongs which bound her.
Arising from the couch, at first she rubbed one of
her :wrists; then, placing the folds of her dress again
in order, she approached the'looking-glass. Having
re-arranged her hair, she took up her hat, which bore
the marks of the violence that had been done to her.
Thia she proceeded to place again in shape. Mor
daunt sat quietly upon the bed, uncertain how to
deal yith her. She noticed that her bracelet was
'not upon her arm. Looking around, she discovered
t lying on the floor,",near Mordaunt's feet, and ad-
vanced to pick it'up. Mordar.nt anticipated her
design, and obtaining it, offered it to her. Sarah,
taking it, clasped it upon her arm, and then, holding
itupto 'the light, spoke:

GEORGE MELVILLE.               201
" James, is it not beautiful ?"
"I am glad you think so, Sarah," said Mordaunt.
"Know, then, James, it was the gift of* a villain ;"
and as she fixed her dark, flashing eye upon his
with a gaze as steady as his own, her face exhibited
feelings of the most intense scorn, with an occasional
semblance of pity.
""What mean you, Sarah?9 That was my gift to
you," said Mordaunt, repressing the anger which her
sudden and unexpected words had produced.
"This is a pleasant room, James. Come, as I am
weary, you must let me retire. As you have sent
my carriage away, it is but right tbat I am permitted
to enjoy your hospitality."
"Sarah Graham, I will endure this farce no longer.
Tell me why you have so suddenly become my
enemy."
" I have not become your enemy," replied 'Sarah
" Instead of an enemy, I have become your gooA1
angel. If you will take counsel from me, you will
immediately establish Mary Wilcox and her daughter
in their rights."
"What is MaryWilcox to you, that you have thus
suddenly become her champion ?"
" She and her beautiful little daughter are'- the
incense which I can offer up to expiate the oily
crime I ever participated in, with the exception'of.
prostituting my soul and body for your guilty plea-
sures. When I stand for final judgment, their friend-
ship will, perhaps, become my salvation, and their
woes on earth will become your "
" Damnation," said Mordaunt, supplying the word
which Sarah, now unable to control her feelings, had

9*


2O   G ORnE MEL rLLE.GOGLLL

left unspoken, but which, on Mordaunt's lip became
a deep oath.
lXow lit me tell you; my very kind and self-con-
tituted angel, your fancies are up. You can safely
calcu1xte,;that :until I conclude what had better
family be done with you, you will be placed where
your tongue will injure none of your friends."
"Villain! do your worst! I defy you to do more
than procrastinate the hour of justice. Your deep-
laid plot to murder Sarah Graham cannot now avail
you. The blow which.pierces my heart will be too
late. You should caution Mr. Shank to examine
more thoroughly the closet in the -room under your
law office, if you plot murder and forgery in such
paces."
Mordaunt could not endure this home expose of
his villainy. Forgetting that his victim was a de-
fonceless woman, and completely in his grasp; ;for-
efting that the very woman he attacked, alone had
it in her power to save his reputation; excited to
frenzy by this complete exhibit of his plots, he
prang from the bed, and seizing Sarah by the throat,
even before she had time to utter more than a faint
scream, hurled her, with all his force, against the
rble mantel. A crushing sound, from the head
ofthe once beautiful girl, was the result of this
violation of his nanhood. The next moment, Mor-
daunatod over the senseless form of Sarah Graham,
Wrtain whether, to lis catalogue of sins he might
add the crime of murder.

xxx.
An Arrest-A Promise made, and a Promise given.
WE left an officer of justice pursuing George
Melville to th6 village of Aurora, for the purpose-of
arresting hin upon a warrant issued by a police
justice on an affidavit made by one of the principal
bankers in the city of U-, charging him with
the high crime of forgery.    Upon arriving at
Aurora, the officer proceeded at once to the Aurora
House. He there learned, by casga1 inquiry, that
George Melville was at Hou. 13. F. Mortigner's
residence. Proceeding there at one, he rang the
front doorbell  It was answered by the; colored
woman, Bess.
Is Mr. Mortixner at home ?" said the constable.
"He is, sir ; will you walk in?"
..Taking him into the library, she retired.
Mortimer soon entered, and inquire&amp;his business
" Iam come, sir, upon n unpleasant duty Your
name, sir, is not vnknown to Vie. My busins a
one which, if executed in your house, will connect
with it, if not odium, some unpleasant publicity."
"You are very kind and considerate, sir; but I
know of nothing which will warrant such fears or
remarks," said fir. Mortimer.

GRORGE MELV ILLE.    . 2O3


0GERG                          GEORG MELVILLE.

"I am aware of that,-and will proceed at once to.
state my )Isiness. There is a warrant which directs
me to arrest George Melville upon a charge of
forgery," said he, handing Mr. Mortimer a paper.
Mr. ' xortimer, as he received and perused the
paper, was indeed surprised.
"No," said he, "this must not be executed in my
house, nor in -Aurora, if possible.".
"You may rely, sir, upon my doing everything to
allay the pain of this proceeding, consistent with my
duty. - Ido not see how I can avoid making the
arrest in Aurora."
"I will order my horse and carriage, which. you
can-appear in as driver. I will then request Melville
to go to Auburn immediately for me on business.
When in Auburn you can make the arrest, and keep.
your own counsel in regard to how he got there,"
said Mr. Mortimer.
"Yery well, sir," replied the constable.
Mr. Mortimer immediately ordered the horse and
buggy, and then sat down to write a short note ;
which, being finished, he handed to .the officer, re-
questing him to give it to Melville as soon as the
arrest was made.
Mr. Mortimer's plan was carried out. Melville
raised no objections to complying with Mr. Morti-
mer s request. Upon arriving at Auburn, the officer
'first handed to Melville Mr. Mortimer's note. He
broke the seal, and read as follows:
"7The person who hands you this is an officer from the. city Of
TI'   12-le has just shown me a warrant commanding him to
arrest you as a forger. Have preferred, and doubtless you'll

readily perceive the propriety of my preference, that the service of
this process should not take place in Aurora. If it is any satisfaction
to you,-know that I am filled with the deepest sorrow by the occur-
rence. Myself and Frederick will be in the city of U - to-night.
"Yours very respectfully,
"B. F. Mortimer.
"THIR5DY, PM.
As soon as Melville and the officer left his resi-
dence, Mr. Mortimer sent a servant for his son Fre-
derick.
As Frederick entered his father's study, Mr. Mor-
timer arose, and, placing his hands behind his back,
a habit of long standing whenever he was greatly
. perplexed, he thus addressed his son:
"Well, Frederick, it turns out that James Mor-
daunt, esquire, is not the only vilian who has
sought your sister's hand."
"Pray, father, what do you mean?" said Fre-
derick; his face expressing the greatest astonishment
at the remark.
"You may well look surprised, sir; but I have
performed, within the last fifteen minutes, the most
disagreeable act, of my life."
" Do explain yourself, father."
"Very well!    I will do so by giving you an order
which I wish you to obey to the letter. Pack your
valise, take your horse, and go to Auburn instantly.
Take the evening train for the East.   On board of it
you will find George Melville in the hands of."a con-
stable, arrested for the crime of forgery. Go to the
city of U   -    and do what you can to make the
world believe we did not think him       a villain too
quickly, for the sake of appearances."

GEORGE MELVIL.LE.      205


206'    GE ORO EMELvILLE.'

"And Bell," said Frederick, "this will kill her-+
I must see her."
"N o! leave that business to me. I can humor all
her whims a- well and better than you, now that my
wishesrtare likely to prevail about this ,marriage."
"James Mordaunt is at the bottom of this matter,
sir ;" said Frederick. "George Melville is an inno-
cent man. Money has no attraction for him. His
father is reputed to be wealthy."
"Reputed!"'said Mr. Mortimer. "You had best
spare your judgment from error until the facts are
before you."
"Well, good bye, father. I will bring the facts
from the city of U-   ."  Saying which, Frederick
Mortimer left his home to join ]Welvlle.
After his son had been absent a few moments, Mr.
Mortimer rang his bell, which was always answered
byBess.
I am here, Mr. Mortimer," said Bess, after stand-
ing several moments, holding the library door open.
Mr. Nortimer started suddenly as Bess thus ad-
dressed him.
"I had forgotten ,that 1 rang the bell, Bess. 'Go
and request Miss Mortimer to come to the library."
"Yis sir," said Bess, her face and actions showing
her profound regard for the present head of the Mor-
tiuer family, in which she had been a servant from
childhood.
2aell IN ortinier soon entered the presence of her
father. She was changed in some respects. The
girlshloveliness which characterized Bell, when the
readerfirst knew her, was now perfected by an artist
those skill has no superior. The work was faultless.

I

GEORGE MELVILLE.               2O  
As she entered the room, her father gazed on his
daughter with a pride measured only by ambition
to see her crowned -with the laurels she was so emi-
nently fitted to wear. George Melville he had read
and studied with patience, zeal, and skill. He had
arisen from the task, as does the student from a book
of more pretension than merit. He saw that George
Melville had the name of a scholar, but not the
brain. While his early advantages made him   a
perfect gentleman in the graces of the schools, his
want of application, during a novitiate in the path-
way of learning, had subdued, if indeed it had not
entirely quenched, the fires of his genius. To Mr.
Mortimer's; close perception of character, George
Melville, as a student, was a mere youth, walking
on stilts. He felt that the accidents of birth and
fortune which 'propped him, might one' day be
knocked fromunder his feet. His downfall, in that
case easily predicted, 'would be the more lamentable
in its results ; the higher the winds of good fortune
should carry him, the greater the fall. The favorite
comparison with which he eased his conscience for
thwarting his daughter's love wgs--
" Melville is a clever boy; but he is a balloon, and
will rise as long as the gas lasts."
In this judgment of Mr. Mortimer's we are obliged,
for truth's sake, however painful the confession, to
acknowledge that we coincide. But 'in another
regard, Mr. Mortimr had been blind; he had failed
to perceive the great practical genius of the young
man. Thay principle of character which' has led
thankind out Of the savage wilds, has built the rpyras
imids of Egypt, founded states, explored the urin

I


208      oRG MELVILLE.GEOGEvLVLLE2.

known world, battled forfreedom against the Cosars,
and wept over the dead body of Brutus; placed in
the hands of the astronomer the ladder with which
he has mounted the heavens; given to the mariner
the idnex finger of the deep ; to the mechanic, the
reality of steam power; to the statesman, merchant,
executor of law, soldier, the lightning tongue whose
vibrations are instantaneously significant from State
to State; from  the banks of the Penobscot to the'
Bay of San Francisco, speaking the great truth,
let contending principles cause the -mighty pulse
of American Freedom to quicken, thereby purify-
ing the body of disease; but, remember, ye of
North, South, East, and West, this homely truth:
"Dum igitur ventri cibum subducunt, corpus debilitatur, et
membra ser invidim sum poenituit." *
George Melville, thus far in his life, with this
exception, was all that the distinguished statesman
had read him. He was no more fitted by taste, habit,
or dicipline, to adorn the medical profession, than an
"ass to honor a lion's skin."    This, E-sopic simile
may become a feast for the critics, but if it serves to
urads1 out the ruins of any air-castles which our gene-
rous and lenient readers have built for George Mel-
ville, we shall not regret that it had become our
emplog. Providence, by one of His wonderful and
inscrutable decrees, was yet to prepare Melville for
usefulness and greatness.  College had put:forth her
bes efforts for George Melville, but his Alma Mater,
* "WPhile, therefore, the members withheld food from the belly,
the bds was enfeebled, and the members wien too late; repented of
their hatrd."

notwithstanding her mountain of labor, had brought
forth a-mouse. Again, we must not anticipate.
"Bell, sit by me," said Mr. Mortimer, using his
most affectionate tone ; "I have something to. say
which must give you even more pain than my settled
antipathy to your union with George Melville."
"Pain, father? I can bear it; my heart has
schooled itself to trial for over two years."
"Two years ! what do you mean by such a re-
ference to time ?"
"That I have loved the noble heart you would
drive from my presence, for that period of time."
"Loved George Melville for two years, and kept
your secret from your father. Why has this been
done ?"
"To prevent any unnecessary step which might
arouse the serpent to draw his folds around the
object of my love."
"And who do you mean shall personate the
serpent in your filial simile ?" said Mr. Mortimer,
entirely blinded by his dislike of Melville from
taking Bell's meaning.
"James Mordaunt, sir, the husband of Mary
Wilcox; the viper who has stung Thomas Griswold,
by ruining his father, and the suspected murderer of
Rev. John Furnace."
" And how would my possessing your confidence'
have aroused this serpent ?"
" By informing him of my secret. -I believe it
will yet appear that James Mordaunt ruined James
H. Griswold, to,.win Bell Mortimer's hand, believing
that s hQmas F. Grisw&amp;.d was her accepted lover,"
said Bell.

G}EORGE MEL'PILLE.      209


G EORG- ]XLVILLX E .  211

"You are rather wild, Bell, in your suspicions."
said Mr. Mortimer.
"You said there was something of a painful nature
which it was necessary I should know," said Bell.
"I did, my daughter; and it is connected with
George Melville."
":Has the serpent bitten him,?" said Bell.
" It may prove so ; but I cannot give you any of,
the circumstances which surround his case. He has,
probably, ere this been arrested to answer a charge
preferred against him by the cashier of the 0-
bank, at the city of Uh, for obtaining six hundred
and twenty-dive dollars from that bank, upon a check
which is pronounced to be a forgery."
Bell's heart throbbed quickly. Notwithstanding
Mr. Mortimer did his utmost to betray none of the
satisfaction which he would not have acknowledged
had existence, even to himself, yet Bell read his
feelings.
".And his misfortunes please my father," said
Bell.
"'Viper' for one suitor charged with crime, and'
misfortunes' for another," replied Mr. Mortimer.-
Yes, sir ; and my sympathy, prayers, tears,
anguish of soul, energies, to lift the cloud from the
unfortunate,' and bring the 'viper' where the biter
shall be bitten," said his daughter.
Bell Mortimer at that moment made her father's
eye quail before the intense passion which kindled in
hers.
9Toiorrow, sir, I go to the city of  .My
father'd company will be acceptable, but not abso-
lutelyfnecessary."

" He will accompany you, Bell; but he advises his
daughter to remain at Aurora."
Bell could no longer control her feelings.  She
threw herself into her father's arms and burst into
tears.
"Father, you must give your daughter a sacred
promise. George Melville, convicted, or acquitted
from this charge, is my affianced husband. Though
to the world he be proven guilty, to me and before
Heaven he is innocent. Promise me never to thwart
one effort I may make in his behalf. I will not ask
your assistance. In return I promise never to marry
without your consent. Be assured of one thing ;
while George Melville lives, I remain true to. him."
"This last resolve is rash ; but I readily give you
the promise, and will add to it the assistance, unless
your plans should appear to be inconsistent and
unwise. You will then have my best advice. Bell
sometimes forgets that her father loves her."
"Let her acts prove the truth or 'error of that,
father," said Bell, evi,.ently much pained by his last
remark.

GE.OBGE ELVILLE.


212     GEORGEMELVILLE.

1

XXXT.
A Station on the N. Y. Central Railroad-Car Manufactory-Recep-
tion of a Convict at the Auburn State Prison-A Model Prison in
the United States.
THE reader will please pass over nine months in
the history of George Melville.
It is ten and a half o'clock in the morning. The
sun shines with rich   grandeur over the city of
Auburn. A cloud now and then flits across his disk,
throwing a genial shadow over the face of the city ;
a refreshing breeze causes the.green foliage which
graces thousands upon thousands of the magnificent
shade trees, for which Auburn is justly celebrated,
to wave in beautiful contrast withthe unyielding
front' of the solid masonry forming her principal
buildings. We are waiting, at the New York Central,
Railroad depot, the arrival of the eastern train.
The cars are behind time ; something rather unu-
sual for this well-conducted railroad.- Let us walk
around the depot. This waiting the arrival of a train
of cars in a strange place, is the essence of momen-
tary-breeding enmui. We have reached the north
end of the depot. Beyond we see several roomy
structures, each several hundred feet in length, with
height and breadth suited for manufacturing the

princely-planned and decorated passenger cars, in
which a traveller rides two or three hundred miles,
and when at his journey's end, imagines he can step
back home in a few minutes. The hum of machin-
ery comes from the structures.. Enter- the-nearest.
From ten to fifteen cars are in process of construc-
tion.   It is a pleasing sight.   The skillful, indus-
trious, and enterprising mechanic, multiplying his
blows, as he shapes the .wood, or fashions the iron,
stands there-thanks to the American Constitution,
American institutions of learning, and American
public sentiment-a man of influence, position, and
caste.
Toiling-rejoicimg-sorrowing,
Onward through life he goes ;
Each morning sees some task begin,
Each evening sees it close;
Something attempted, something done,
Has earned a night's repose.
"Thanks, thanks to thee, my worthy friend,
For the lesson thou hast taught!
Thus at the flaming forge of life
Our fortunes must be wrought;
Thus on its sounding anvil shaped
Each burning deed and thought."*
Now walk half the width of the depot, and stop at
its northwest corner. That pile of solid masonry is
the Auburn State Prison. Its architectural prbpor-
tions and shape present a graceful but solid front.
The wall before us appears to be at least: five hun,
dried feet in length.    Its height must be equal to
thirty or forty feet. At equal distances, upon the top
of the wa1, are guard towers, designed to shelter the
HenryW. Longfellow.

GEORGE MELVILLE,   213


214         GEoRGE MELVILLE.
sentinels. That guardsman as, with musket brought
t    shoulder, he treads the summit of the wall in
measured :pace, occasionally casting an eye over his
beat, speaks volumes to the casual traveller of the
rigor  Ad discipline necessary to keep in strict sub-
jeeton the picked company of desperadoes within.
But there is no time to loiter. The train will soon be
here.; We stop: to admire that knot of ladies and
gentlemen who are issuing from the main entrance
through the wall. As the immense iron gate strikes.
back into its place, and the bolts return to their
stone sockets, a shudder seems to run through the
system. Has such a feeling ever been the foretaste
of this celebrated prison to any of its present inmates,
once as fully entitled to liberty as they are now re-
strained of it?  We leave the spot, reflecting upon
the question.
Our next position is at the southwest corner of the
depot. From   this spot Auburn lies before us. To
the right, and standing in bass-relief against the
horizon, rises a high elevation of land, having its
summit crownedwith tall and stately forest trees. A
gentlemanly young man, observing our interest in
tlie, scene, informs us that the forest-clad height in the
distance is "FortHill Oemetery,"said to be unrivalled
in natural beauty. We make a note of this fact, and
detenine at some future day to pay that hill a visit.
:",Sho--oo---oo--oo-ooooo"
The cars at last! The dpot bell rings a'few. mer -
17 ntes-- doubtless a signal to passenger loiterers, as
as to. the railroad officials and emptoyds;to be
on the;alert. Within three feet of our position the
iron horse stops. We turn to admire one of the most

I

4

'A

GEOBEQ MELVILLE.      215

beautiful specimens of locomotion we ever yet exk
amined: To our inquiry, where was that splendid
machine built, the engineer points to the "Auburn
State Prison."  We walk to the opposite side of the
locomotive, intending to read the name of her build-
er. But a sight here meets our gaze which causes a
second shudder to rush through our veins. A young
man, dressed in rich and gentlemanly style, has just
emerged from the front car of the train... The irons
are upon his right leg, and he is chained by the
wrist to the officer who has him in charge.
Who is that ?-who is that ?-who is that ? These
inquiries emanate from the entire crowd. An answer
is soon given.
"CGeorge Melville, the forger."
The excitement becomes intense. Who has not
heard of George Melville, the forger ? They said he
was very wealthy, and that money would get him clear.
It had not, however. The Justice of the Supreme
Court, and District Attorney of the city of U
were. proof against corruption. Such were the re-
marks of the crowd. They thought the governor
might pardon him ; but nobody believed he would.
He was the people's candidate, and they knew he
would: not pardon a man merely because he had rich
friends. And in this respect, the great mass of the
people inAimerica are right. Their rulers well know,
and seldom forget, the constituency to whom they are
amenable for their acts, and by whom, as each elec-
tion day returns, they are held strictly accountable.
W   have resolved, "kind reader," not to take this
train;, but to visit the prison, and.see what is to be
done with " Melville the forge r." We stand in front

I

-J


GEORGE -MELVILLE.

of the gate, having advanced somewhat ahead of the
crowd. The gate-keeper opens to our knock, and we
are allowed to enter. On our left we notice a small
but. neat and tastefully arranged flower-garden.
Sdinethingof a contrast to our feelings of solemn awe
and dread as we entered the gate. On our right is
a green-lawn, shaded by beautiful trees. A fence se-
parates the yard, as well as another, the garden, from
the path we are in. Advancing, we ascend a flight
of stone steps. We stop a moment to admire the
front of this inner building, and find that .the blue
limestone of the wall without is in contrast with a
beautiful free-stone of the inner building. Entering,
we find ourselves in a spacious hall, and the first idea
that strikes us is the air of cleanliness which character-
izes the place. We enter a door on the left. Within,
several persons are collected, evidently engaged in
discussing or conducting the affairs of the prison.
We hand our card to the clerk, and watch the result.
Ourname.is evidently entirely unknown to him; but
he casts a modest, smiling glance at our person, and
with the most gentlemanly politeness addresses us:
Are you a visitor to Auburn ?"
"Yes, sir."
Do you desire to visit the prison ?"
"If you please, and it is not inconsistent with yoiu
rules."
"Not at all, sir ; it is part of our duty to attend to
thewishes of visitors. The price for going through
istwenty-five cents. Perhaps, sir," continued the
clerk, "you had better wait a few moments, as a
scene of some interest will transpire here soon."
Will wait with pleasure."

The clerk opened the gate-to the railing, aid polite-
ly handed us a chair, for whicL act we generously
thanked him. The door now opened, and George
Melville, the convictedforger, sentenced for five years
to hard labor in the State Prison, stood before the
railing, on the very spot we had just vacated. We
learned that the persons who entered with him, be-
sides the officers, were Thomas F. Griswold,, his junior
counsel, Frederick Mortimer, son of Ion. B. F. Morti-
mer of Aurora, two ladies closely veiled, and the
father of the prisoner.
"It has been whispered," the clerk informed me,
" that this Melville was to have been married to Miss
Mortimer;ithat Melville's father opposed the match,
and stopped the supplies ; and that he committed the
forgery to get married."
An' officer of the ward entered the room. A few
moments afterwards, a person, standing ready, at a
signal from the Captain of the Wards, removed the
irons from Melville. Melville, taking a rich diamond
ring from his left hand, approached one of the ladies.
Handing it, to her, he whispered a few words. She
was standing near the' northeast corner of the room.
Turning her back to the company, she gently raised
her veil, and in a clear unbroken voice, spoke--
"IGood bye, dear brother. We all feel you are
innocent, and'God will yet give the world proof of
it-
Melville clasped his sister to his. breast and kissed
her, smiling as complacently as if he were about to
leave her to a night's repose in his father's home..
Taking a second ring from his pocket, the jewel in
which sparkled brilliantly, he approached the second

ii

,
.                                   ; , N;,
_               -              ' F;;
-

GEORGE MELVILL'E.

217

14
Y     Jf
t
K   { t
F    F4
k      .
-      rv
..a
JF
''1    V
iY
'its
5,t {
44'
+,4
i-vl Y.s
"F
" _ t
Y 2
. +I

I

j} ]
4 r
1          t
1.  ti ~t
i1
w/  V
{ri".r
_   rt
1,
- - ra
FS _ I
rt,,
I'
b


GEO RGE MELVI'LLE.

lady. Gently raising her hand, which she imnedi-
ately unloved, he placed this second ring upon her
finger; as he stooped the better to accomplish his
obet he imprinted a kiss upon her hand. This act
was unnoticed by all in the room. Lifting her veil,
she spoke a few words in a very low tone. The last
sentences were as follows-
"James Mordaunt shall yet take your place. You
are satisfied this Robert Shank is the man you shot
in the woods?
"I am! Griswold has my full statement in writ-
ing.' He knows all the 'circumstances, as he was an
actor in the scene. I recognized him as I left the
jail to come here," replied Melville.
"kiss me, George !" said the lady.
"Not here, dearest!" replied Melville; still hold-
ing her hand.
"Very well," replied she; "Igave you the first seal
of our love. I will here give you the link which
will prove that the chain is still unbroken."
$he took his hand, and gracefully pressing it to her
lips, spoke in an even, subdued tone, but one which
could be distinctly heard all over the room.
"George,.farewell five years hence, you will find,
Bell Mortimer either on earth, or in heaven. James
.ordaunt, I trust, may learn these words."'
Melville turned from her, and grasping his father's
hand, bade him good bye, saying-" Be a father to
bhth'af your daughters." In turn, he then took leave
1frederick Mortimer and Mr, Griswold. The scene
now become almost insupportable. There was
not  dryye n the room, unless we except that of
the prisoner.'. He wore a quiet, but melancholy sniile.
"   i '++  tm +          '*--   {"   ,I"

When Melville's friends left the room; the clerk of
the prison proceeded to question him touching his
name, age, place of birth, occupation, etc., etc. He
answered the questions readily and in a manly tone,
betraying neither bravado, nor guilt. It was the
tone of conscious innocence.
Not an individual present failed to      form  this
opinion, and freely expressed themselves on the sub-
ject as soon as Melville had retired.
Melville was ordered by the Captain of the Wards
to take off his boots. His height was then taken,
and. a full description of any particular marks .upon:
his face, neck, etc., all of which was duly recorded
by'the clerk. He was then led from the room.
"If that man is a forger, he can act 'a part better
. than any one I .ever saw," said the Inspector in
charge, who chanced to be present.*
This opinion was not dissented from. My own
opinion certainly accorded with the remark, although
a novice in such judgment.
The lerk now    beckoned me to accompany him.
Passing into the large hall I had first entered, hie led
me into a second. Here was the first semblance of
a prison which I had seen since passing the front
gate. A heavy wicker partition set off about one-
third of the entire room, making a hall between the
* Some may doubt the truth of this picture of Bell Mortimer's
conduct under the eyes of so many officers of the prison. Our answer
is, that the present gentlemanly cleik of the Anburn State Prison,
Mr. T-s Ds, while we were oece making a visit to that insti-
tution, related'several instances in which the sober truth far surpasses
the fiction. He gave us names and dates, and referred us to the re-
cords of the prison in corroboration. We have purposely softened
the picture:

4:
e.  ,'
'   ,

21-8

GEORGE MELVILLE.

29


220         GEORGE MELVILLE.
wicker work and three sides of the room. A heavy
gate, bearing an immense lock, closed the entrance
from the main room to the hall beyond the partition.
Opposite this was a heavy door, nearly covered
with strong iron bars, the machinery of which-was
so nicely adjusted, that they were all, moved by one
connecting rod accessible only in the main room.
Thus, when the heavy door, which was one of the
principal entrances to the prison, was opened, the
person or persons admitted thereby, could not pass
beyond the wicker partition until the gate -was in
turn opened. By this arrangement one man could
stop a thousand, and even should the attending keeper
fall asleep, he could not be surprised. Two other
main entrances, precisely similar to that already
described, open into this wicker hail. One at the
south, and one at the north end of the room.
At a signal from the clerk, the wicker gate was
opened,-and I was invited to walk through-.
" We won't detain you against your will, sir. Now
you are in durance, if not in durance vile,"esaid the
clerk, with a-gentlemanly smile-.
I followed him to the south entrance of the hall.
tremendous rattling of bolts and bars grated on
my ear as -if by magic, when the clerk. grasped a
bright iron handle onx the door, polished by long
use, and commenced pulling steadily, and with con-
siderable power. The door gradually swung open,
requiring an exertion of considerable strength to
stop its momentum and shut it again. I now found
mygelf in a. capacious but unfurnished room. At one
corner of this room was a right-angle4 partition, cut-
*       ting off a small room from the larger. Into this the

GEORGE MELVILLE.

21

clerk introduced me. Before us stood George Mel-
ville, the convicted forger, He was arrayed in the
uniform of the prisoners. It consisted of a thick
coarse, cloth, with light-blue and white stripes alter-
nate. The garments consisted of roundabout, -vest,
pants and cloth cap, all of the same material. In
place of his closely-fitting and graceful patent-leather
boots, he had on a coarse but serviceable pair of
kipskin shoes. His smile had left him. A settled
melancholy had spread over his countenance. In
answer to my question asking permission to speak
with him, the clerk informed me it was against the
regulations of the prison. I could only look my sym-
pathy, and that he had to the fullest extent of one
who believed he suffered wrongfully.
He had been assigned a place in the hospital.
At present, however, the posts were all filled there,
and he was to be put in the first vacancy which
should occur. Until then, he was ordered to the
machine shop. As I heard the Captain of the Wards
inform Melville of this, a gleam as of satisfaction came
over his face ; but in this I might have been mis-
taken: account for it, I certainly could not. The
labor of a machinist, compared to that of a hospital
nurse, is as ten to one. I thought, as he left the
room in company with the officer, that his white
hands and delicate constitution were but ill suited
to the labors of a machinist.
The clerk, having finished the business which
called him to this room, conducted me, through a
small hallyinto a large airy doom, filled with benches.
It had the appearance of a very large lecture-room.
"This, sir, is called te chapel. We have public


222         GEORGE     ELVILLE.
religious services here on the Sabbath, which ali the
convictsusually attend," said the clerk.
"What persuasion is adopted ?" I asked.
"Sometimes one, and sometimes another. The form
ofeorship .is left with the chaplain. Last year we
had a clergyman of the Episcopal form; this year we,.
have a Methodist; another year we may have a
Presbyterian. It depends upon the Board of In-
spectors, who have got the-appointing" power,"replied
the clerk..
From this room we proceeded to the hospital, situ-
ated directly over the chapel. Quite a number of
patients were under treatment. It was the hour
when the hospital physician made his daily visit.
-He was present, and busily engaged examining new
cases from the different parts of this huge establish-
ment. How he ever accomplished his task was a
mystery to me; but his questions were put to, and
answered by, the complaining convicts in rapid suc-
cession. A benevolent smile pervaded his counte-
nance, though he appeared to be a man prompt in
decision, and inflexible when his judgment had been
passed. The efforts which some of the complainants
made to sham sickness, and obtain a few days' re-
spite from labor, were amusing. Many, however,
were: sick. Such received his earnest and most prac-
tical advice. The physician of a hospital like this
must feel a weighty responsibility. In one respect,
the hospital of this prison differs frontany we have
ever visited. It appeared to be the convicts' para-
dise. Here, convicts' fare and rations were changed
for comforts, and even luxuries. In extreme cases,
the rarest delicacies of the market arefreelyordered.

GEORGE MELVILLE.                223
The officers of the prison, in the hospital surround-
ings, seem to feel that the eyes of an exacting .con-
stituency are upon them. For this reason, disease
is here grappled and fought with every advantage
which wisdom, in affluence, would naturally take.
As this idea possessed our mind, we frankly own it
made us feel proud of the Empire. State.
We returned to the keeper's, hall, where I was
surprised to see quite a large party of ladies and gen-
tlemen in waiting to pass through the prison. The'
clerk requested me to hand my ticket, which he had
given me for my quarter of a dollar, to the keeper in
charge. -Again the heavy wicker gate opened, and
the party, consisting of about a dozen individuals,
were conducted into what we have denominated a
wicker kcall-this for want of a better title ; but this
time the keeper took the gate opposite the one through
which I had followed the clerk. We made our exit
by the north door, precisely similar in appearance,
size, and fastenings to the south and west doors.
Through it we were all ishered. The idea at once
strikes the mind-so, at least, happened on this occa-
sion to a beautiful young lady, evidently a farmer's
daughter, one of the party, a stranger, as indeed were
all, to ourself. She remarked to her companion:
" I wonder if the keeper intends to have us all go
.to rost?
" It looks like it," said Iber companion.
" I shall have to ask him to give me a cell entirely
'alone, then," continued the blooming girl.
"Youdon't want to break loose from the minister's
knot a'ready, do you, Molly ?"
"Yesif we can't have a bigger bedroom than one


224    GEORGE MELVILLE.

of these cells," replied the fair ;girl, half sotto voce,
whom I now concluded had that morning given her-
self over to the manly-looking countryman, for better
or Worse, to love, honor, and . . The rest of the
vow is distasteful.
Gallery after gallery, range after range of these
cells, we now rapidly passed; every one, a small
dungeon, except that the adjective "dark" would
not apply. They are all lighted by an iron grating,
about two feet square. But the keeper hastens our
footsteps-we descend to the floor. These cells are
built in tiers one above another, some eight or ten in
number, of solid masonry ; every door is of'iron, and
heavily locked. From our present position on the
ground floor,: the distance to the highest tier, is so
great, that it fills the mind with wonder as well as
vastness. The idea of sleeping in one of those cells
for one night, alone ought to deter men from crime
Why they fail to do this may possibly be answered
by the idea that depraved hearts are willing to rut
the risk of discovery. There are few convicts sen
teniced upon confession, compared to the number
sentenced upon conviction.
We are now introduced to a scene of airy-like
activity.  Blows'! blows !-click-a-click !-click-a.
click-a-click-! ,whir-r-r-r!  whir-rr-r! -- whir-r-r-r
From sixty to a hundred men are here making barrels.
As ourtparty enters, nearly every eye is turned upon
us; can it be these men, isolated from the world to
expiate their crimes against human law, are looking
niously among our party for a smile of home?
This must be the solution of that simultaneous gaze,
so unlike a work-shop filled with honest mechanics.

GEORGE MELVILLE.                225
Sometimes, even a question, which demands a reply,
will fail to take an honest mechanic's eye from his
work. The contrast causes an involuntary sigh of
pity, which reflection soon informs the heart to be
misplaced; they need pity for their crimes, not for
their lot. We leave the "cooper shop" and enter
the " hames shop," where the trappings of carriages
and all kinds of harness mountings are manufac-
tured; we next enter the "tool shop." The ponderous
machinery in this place astonishes us, considering
our preconceived notions ; almost as far as the eye
can reach and distinguish, appear work-benches,
each one occupied by a single convict engaged in
fashioning, or finishing some tool necessary to a
carpenter and joiner's kit, or chest. More than
eighty different varieties of tools are here manufac-
tured, and, while they are afforded cheaper than,
they are said to be equal to, the foreign -article.
If memory serves aright, we must do "merrie Eng-
land" justice in the steel. English steel is used to
tip the best plane-irons. American steel, however, is
also used for the same purpose, and the purely
American tool is said to obtain a wide popularity
among mechanics. We now approach what the
. keeper informs us is the "State shop," where the
half-way sick convicts are sent, who do not need hos-
pital attention. They are employed to do such work
as they are able, or are suffered to remain idle,
subject to the judgment of the keeper in charge.
Great leniency is 'manifested, and the utmost pre-
caution taken to commit no errors in such judgment.
We now cross an open court and enter a range of
buildings to the south. In succession we pass
10*


226         GEO      -MELVILLE.
through a " cabinet shop," " shoe shop," "tailor
shop,"' for manufacturing convict clothing, " dye
house," and finally, an extensive "machine shop."
Machinery of all kinds, and of the most ponderous
character, is before us in process of manufacturing,
and under all stages of progress. Upon inquiry, we
learn that the enterprise of the great West, Canada
on the north, the chivalrous South, and the calcu-
lating East, is represented by this half-finished ma-
chinery. That engine is ordered by a firm in Upper
Canada; this ponderous iron planing-machine is for
/ a bold man and cool head off on the prairies; that
immense range of shafting is for a factory in New
England; that beautiful specimen of steam power
i for a new establishment in the great commercial
emporium for the trade over the American lakes.
The-gentlemanly keeper whispers a sentence in our
ear..
"Do you see that young convict receiving direc-
tions from another convict, far to the right $"
"Yes, sir; why, that is 'Melville the forger.' "
"jAh, sir ! you know him then.. I chanced to be
in the keeper's hall when he passed through ; he
don't: appear to 'feel very bad just now ; after he
gets a taste of hard work, his spirits will begin to
droop more, and he will regret that he could not
appreciate the difference between a true and forged
signature."
"Idon't believe he is a guilty man," we ventured
to"suggest to the keeper.
"That isthe usual sympathy of men unaccustomed
to deal with rascals; they can assume innocence
better than a hungry man can handle his knife

GEORGE MELYILLE,               27
and fork. There isn't a convict in the prison,. not
sentenced upon confession, who will say he is
guilty."
This remark of the     keeper,  we afterwards
learned, was, in the main, correct ; and, in it, we
discover why the application, of the executive cle-
mency becomes a privilege most difficult to be exer-
cised. No doubt, innocence, as, the reader knows
was the case with George Melville, sometimes be-
comes a sacrifice to the majesty of the law; but
more frequently the law forgets her prerogatives, and
allows the guilty to have the benefit of the doubt,
rather than that innocence should suffer.  More
frequently, too, the executive clemency is interposed
upon the divine law, that ten guilty should escape;
rather than that one innocent man should suffer.
We leave this shop, and enter a "spinning and
carding shop." For this enumeration of the prine-
pal workshops, i this prison, we doubt not, most of
our readers will thank us. It is a sprinkling of the
actual upon the imaginative. We will now ascend
the open court, which was crossed a few moments
since. This courtis extensive, being several hundred
feet long, by at least two hundred, and perhaps more
in width. We approach the central entrance to the
keeper's hall. A flight of about twenty stone steps
leads from the court'to the stone platform in front of
the entrance. A large bell rings. The platform aid
all the standing room upon the steps; is filled with
ladies and gentlemen, visitors for the mnorning to the
prison. In long columns, marching in single file,
back to breast, the entire convict force of the prison
are. seen emerging at different points from as many


22
229

G1EOBlG   fLVILLE~

GEORGE MELVILLE.

228

places as there are shops, and in as many companies,
each company taking up its line of march in the,
court. Occasionally, as was the fact at this time, a
band of music, themselves guests for the morning, at
the request of the agent, make the stony walls reecho
to the strains of " the march," as, with a skill that
would have awakened commendation from a " Bel-
lini," they gladden the thousand hearts which, in
those convict ranks,
"Are beating funeral marches to the grave."
Say not, sons of liberty, in this world of error, that
a "Per" cannot find a second "tear-drop " bedew-
ing the "repentant cheek" of some convict, with
which passport to.open again the. pQrtals of heaven.
See!-those eyes in that column marching so closely
in review are not all dry. Is that young convict
who draws a sleeve over his face, the husband? Has
he discovered the wife of his bosom among the crowd
of visitors? Is that one-the grey-locked old convict
-a father? See! he sheds a tear. This weeping
female at my side-was that a' daughter's kiss she
threw so suddenly when the old man marched by?
Such a tear-drop at least looks like repentance.
The last column has passed-no ! there, down on the
left, comes one more. Three keepers walk steadily
by its side. There must be at least a hundred men
in that column.  They march in single file,b
to breast; their step is wondrously reIta
eems like the step of a single man; butjM ,ai
tingtly the footsteps sound I tread-trea ,d
tread. It is almost impossible to dissipate tiillu
sion even with the reality before us. And there-

es! 'tis he ! That young man is "George Melville,
the forger." And those convicts are the machinists.
thEen yet he wears that melancholy truthfulness.
No he cannot be really a forger. How terrible the
thought ! does he'suffer innocently?

0

r


23  G~OGE~L~r.n1.GOIc                                 MEIdVIILLEf.     231-

XXXII.
More about the Prison.
Ti heavy bolts rattle ,again, and the crowd of
visitors are. once more admitted to the "keeper's
hall." My thanks are due the olerk, for what I have
now learned was an especial favor, and I go to his
office. He has not the time nor liberty to bestow
upon all a hospital visit. The sick would suffer
from the gaze of the curious.
"And did you see the convicts at dinner, after
they had marched into the dining-room ?" said the
clerk, in reply to our thanks.
" I did not, sir."
"If you have the time, we will go and see them."
"Thank yoi1; I shall be pleased to do so," was my
reply.
We return to the "keeper's hall."    A   small
door, leading into. a stairway, and which I had not
before observed, was opened for us. We descend
into a very large room with a stone floor. The nasal
organ is assailed with the savor of the cuisine.
"This is the kitchen," said the clerk. "Here, in
this side room, the cooking is done. Those huge iron
caldrons are the cooking utensils.  By means of
them, .we feed between seven and eight hundred
convicts three meals daily."

We next entered the dining-room. Here was a
sight indeed, for a novice to wonder at. Eight hun-
dred convicts, men of all grades in crime, age, and
education.; epresentatives of all climes, nations, and
tongues ; and all of them members of the human
family, filled with passions, energies, minds, like our
own, but, for the time, dead to the world.
The clerk requests me to follow him. We make a
half circuit of the room, but it is impossible to hear
conversation, on account of the clatter of knives and
forks. One thing we notice. The plates are all of
wood. If crockery was known here, the breakage
for one day would supply the raw material for a
meal.
"There is Melville, the forger," said the clerk,
putting his mouth close to my ear and speaking in a
loud tone.
Once more I looked upon this young man. He:
was doing his utmost to swallow a few morsels of the
plain but wholesome food offered him.
"That young man, I believe, is no more guilty of
committing forgery than I,"aid the clerk.
I was surprised at this remark ; but as I subse-
quently learned, it is remarkable how accurately and
quickly. prison- officers of long standing can detect
real and assumed innocence in a convict. The
officers. seldom express these convictions.  On this
occasion, however, the clerk had evidently given
Melville his, heartfelt sympathy, a circumstance
which was to benefit him afterwards.
"Now, sir, if you desire to take a walk of about
three-quarters of a mile, we will make a circuit of
the prison walls."

230GFEORGE MELVI"LIE.


282    GEORGE MELVILLE.

This kindness on the part of the clerk, it was diffi-
cult for me to accept. I feared he was offering more
than I ought to take advantage of.
"No sir," said he, in reply to my objections; "I
anrot in perfect condition for work to-day, and the
exercise will be a practical advantage to me. Do
not let me make my offer a trespass upon your time,
however."
I accepted his kindness without further remark,
and we proceeded at once to the front gate, where I
had first entered the prison. Here, on each side of
theimmense iron gate, and each forming part of the
wall, are two large towers, built of cut stone. The
walls proper are built of hewn stone. In the southern
tower is the gate-keeper's lodge. In the northern
tower is a spiral staircase, forming a communication
with the top of the wall. This staircase we ascended.
It would be impossible to incorporate into the text of
this history the really magnificent views constantly
recurring to.the pedestrian, making the circuit of the
main wall inclosing the Auburn State Prison. The
wall forms an oblong square, seemingly, five hundred
by twelve hundred feet. These distances are only
approximate ; but they are very near the truth. To
describe the impression made on the mind by this
walk is a difficult task for the pen. The vastness of
this structure fills the mind with awe. It incloses all
the necessities requisite for a score of manufactories,
complete in'all their parts, together with an immense
hotel, or boarding-house, capable of sustaining and
providing lodgment for thousands. Each and every
part of the structures within the walls bears the e vi-
dences which speak of the strengt'. necessary to con-

GEOIVRGE MELVILLE.               233
fine vice, wickedness and crime. Without, there is
a contrast ; as far as the eye can reach, are the em-
blems of freedom; earth, air, homes, beautiful shade-
trees, and'in the distance, stately forests and fields of
waving corn; to the south, numerous church spires
point towards heaven where the convicted felon,
judge, jurors, citizens, all must congregate on the
great and final day; to the east, a stately and solid
structure, where, our companion informs us, stu-
dents of theology, in one of the Christian denomma-
tions, are made ambassadors of the good news to man.
Is the contrast fearful? We have endeavored to picture
the facts of this walk. Will the reader, as he gazes
upon the scene, try to learn the important lessons
which they, teach?
We have now reached the middle of the western'
wall.
But what is that wall beyond this ?"
" That," replied the clerk, "incloses part of the
State property ; and there, to the left, is the burial
ground of the prison. It has been secured to meet
the wants of 'a sovereignty growing like the Empire
State, and will be necessary at a future day. As na-,
tions wax fat, criminals multiply."


11

GE2RoRG'E MELVILLE.
XXXI.
James Mordaunt, Esq., triumphs.-
WAT is the hour, father ?" said Bell  o  rtas
she entered the ladies' parlor at B---'s Hotel,  the
city of UL-.
It it now seven o'clock."
Has any news arrived from    the village of.
"Nothing definite, Bell.  The jury, it is undei-.
stood, have agreed upon a verdict. It will be ren-
dered this morning at the opening of the court. We.
shall get all the particulars by eleven o'clock."
"Cannot you order a carriage, father, and let me
be present at this last scene of James Mordaunt's
triunph ?"
"No, Bell. I must ask you to rest content with
what I have already conceded in. coming with you,
and assisting in this defence. - The. labor, too, has
been a useless waste of=time, for the testimony against
Melville is so overwhelming, there is no hope for him.
He must go to prison, Bell."
"1George says he is innocent, father."
He may beb; ut innocence and the testimony
against-him are opposite poles on the earth. He went
to his room, the very room opposite the one you now

GEORGE MELVILLE.                235
occupy. A waiter of the house testifies that he saw
him go there ; that he saw him ten minutes afterwards
descending the stairs, dressed in a particular coat ;
that he saw him come into the bar-room half an hour
after, having on the same coat ; and on the cross-ex-
amination, that he could not be mistaken, that he
knew him perfectly well. Mr. Robert Shank testi-
fies that he saw a man having on such a coat, which
was shown to the witness, present a check for six
hundred and twenty-five dollars, at the very hour
testified to by the'banker. The cashier and the teller
of the bank testify to his identity and the presenta-
tion and payment of the check. The partners of-the
firm, whose firm name is attached to the check, have
all seen the same 'in open court, and testified that it
is. a forgery. Their book-keeper has testified to the
same. The defence amounts to just nothing at all.
Not one allegation of Melville's can he sustain by
proof. He acknowledges that he went to his room,
in the hotel. He also says that he sat down and
wrote a long letter, which he finished just as the
waiter called to get his valise, at the hour for the de-
parture of the train going east ; that he took the
train, and went directly to Aurora; that he was never
in the O-   Bank inhis life."
"But, father, George says the whole affair is a con-
spiracy to ruin him, and that he believes James Mor-
dauntis at the bottom of it."
" He must prove it, Bell."
Everything appears to be dark now; but the time
will come when there will be sunlight, father."
"t may, Bell ; but not for George IMelvilie. His
race among men of integrity is run."

."4.

-


236           G              ]GiE ME LVIL LE.
A waiter entered with a letter. It was for Bell.
Y DEAR FRIEND' BELL:''
The jury have rendered their ver dict. I: is against George. The
quz, even under this cloud, begins to shiue.: The witness, Robert
Shank, George has recognized as the robber hom, he shot in the
woods several years since. I have also recog iized him. This will
be our clue to the truth yet. Keep this to yourself Bell. In great
haste,I
TuonAs F. GRISWOLD.
When Bell had finished reading her note, she im-
mediately tore it into a hundred pieces.
"What is that for, Bell ?" said her father. "Is it
not from Mir. Griswold ?"
A' It is, and announces the verdict."
" What is it ?"
"Guilty, sir; and would to Heaven I might go and
share his fortunes in a prison."
But Bell Mortimer little knew the real effect upon
her. health which the last few months of anguish,
anxiety and excitement, had produced. Two hours
front that moment, her father bent over the form of
his beautiful daughter, prostrated upon a bed of sick-
ness. A raging fever attacked the lovely girl, and
brought her within a short step of the grave. Then
it was the father's -turn to suffer. His anxiety for
his daughter's life was only equalled by his exertions
to save her.   Mrs. Mortimer was immediately sent
for. Three weeks after, when Bell again walked her
room, a mere skeleton of her former self, and could
once more gaze into her father's eye with the old
smile of affection, and faintly thank him    for all his
kindness, then he resolved never again to speak to

GEORG E ME LVILLE' 237
her, even what he felt to be just, if it was against
George Melville. lie resolved also to know the
trth, if James Mordaunt had really planned Mel-
Ville's destruction. If such was the .fact, his daugh-
ter's sufferings lay at James Mordaunt's door. Mr.
Mortimer was a man of the world, filled with the
world's ambition; but he was also a kind man at
heart, and when aroused- to accomplish a purpose,
few could do more, or commit less errors of judg-
ment.
Thorhas Griswold had obtained a stay of prodeed-
is, which procrastinated the final sentence of his
friend for a few weeks. He did not shake the ver-
diet. As the reader has already learned, George
Melville was sentenced to prison for a term of five
years.


2'EOEIG                  M:ELVILLS.
xxxTY'
Mr. M----, Chief of the New York Police, puts his Private Seal upon
a Coffin in Greenwood Cemetery.
"Goon bye, Bell! I must be in New York next
week. You will not hear from me until that time."
4"Good bye, father. Always love your Bell; will
you not, dear father ?"
A tear glistened in Mr. Mortimer's eye, as he gave
his horses the word to start. Had Bell Mortimer, at
that instant been able to look into the depths of her
father's heart, she might have seen a resolution in
her behalf which would have brought back her
smiles; but, Mr. Mortimer had learned the. benefit
of silence, until he could speak of results. He had
now been but a few days at home. He had remained
only until he could be certain that his daughter's
health was established. His journey was solely on
her account. At eleven o'clock, the following mor-
ning, he was at the office of J. S. Taylor, Eq., in
New York.
"Good morning, sir," said Mr. Taylor, as he recog.-.
nized theperson of his distinguished visitor. I have
ep ure of your acquaintance; but, I beli.ee
I ddresthe Hon. .F. Mortimer."
"Andthis, I presume, is Counsellor Taylor whose

239

GEORGE MELVILLE.

name has been for a long time familiar to me
replied Mr. Mortimer. "Mr. Taylor, I have a matter
of a business nature for your ear. Can we employ
a few hours together, to-day ?"
"Certainly, sir," replied Mr. Taylor. "We shall
be less liable to interruption in my private office."
" Mr. Taylor, you have, doubtless, learned from
Mr. Griswold the particulars of George Melville's
trial, conviction and sentence ; also, the suspicions
which are entertained against James Mordaunt."
"I have, sir."
"Very well. I have learned from my son a gene-
ral outline of what you have against, Mordaurit.
Whether guilt or innocence attaches to Mr. Mor-
daunt, is my present object. When will you try the
action instituted in behalf of Mary Wilcox ?"
"Mordaunt has postponed the trial twice; it may
not reach a hearing under six months. I do not
think he can postpone it again, however."
"Very well. I have six months to work in,
then."
" How so? Will I have your assistance in this
difficult and perplexing matter ?"
"1As a client, you will, Mr. Taylor. I am interested
in the ease, by several circumstances, and desire to
learn, more particularly, all the grounds you have
obtained upon which to found a hypothesis of suc-
cess."
"Mr. Taylor at once opened the whole case to
Mr. Mortimer. He had learned but littledmore,
however,toissist him  He relied, in a great mea-
sure, upon his unknown correspondent
ynIgie..Mrtiner made smeminutes of the principal

I


240 GEORGE MELVIILE.
facts in the case, after which he left Mr. Taylor, with
a promise to call again soon.
His next call was upon Thomas Griswold.
From Griswold he learned the important fact that
Gerge Melville had recognized in the witness
Robert Shank, a highwayman whom he had formerly
shot.
"What are you doing about him, Mr. Griswold ?"
"We are giving him rope by which he may hang
himself. Chief M  -l has him in charge. Every
movement he makes for the next six months will be
recorded in that book," said Griswold, pointing to a
blank book on the table. "He has been seen in
Mordaunt's office twice already. That shows nothing,
but it is significant."
"What are you doing with Mordaunt ?"
"Mrs. Tryon's new coachman is a police officer.
Besides thi, every movement Mordaunt makes will
be carefully watched and studied," replied Griswold.
That is all very good, Mr. Griswold, but there is
one source of information you are leaving unex-
plred."
"What is that 2"
s it impossible to find who have been servants
at Mrs. Tryon's for the past three years'? You may
possibly trace, this Robert Shank into close intimacy
with Mordaunt by this means."
" That is true. I will make a note of it," said
Griswold."
Mr. Mortimer next started for the city of Brooklyn,
Y   His object was to have a personal interview
withtMary Wilcox. For this purpose he had ob-
tained a note:of introduction from .Mr Taylor.

r/  O.I E M'-Z"LYVILr/-La E.

241

The result of this interview, while it did not fail t
excite Mr. Mortiner's heartfelt sympathy in her be-
half, added nothig material to the evidence An'the
case.
He next proceeded to call upon Mrs. Furnace, the
widow of the Rev. John Furnace, whose remarkable
disappearance had never been accounted for. He ob-
tained from her the time of the funeral;- the hour Mr.
Furnace left his home; a minute description of his
dressjewelry, watch; in ne, of every article which he
had about him that she could remember. This being
accomplished, he retn fie to his hotel He now sent
a messenger, requestin 'the chief of police to detail
two active and shrewd policemen for his special ser-
vice. In an hour, OhiefjNC-1 himself 'called at
Mr. Mortimer's room, accompanied by the desired
policemen. Upon learning what Mr. Mortimer's ob-
ject was, he expressed his thanks for his assistance.
While he had never lost sight of the matter, he
readily confessed that the results thus far had been
very unsatisfactory.
One thing, Mr. Mortimer," said the chief
have sometimes thought of doing; but my judgment
has always told me the labor would prove-fselers
as to results. I have thought of exhuming the  of'
fn buried that day by Rev, Mr. Furnace.   t will,
doubtless, show that there, was no, corpsein'r"the
" And that fact has become very important, ince:
r. cen  theory f mine shallprove true,'sir, re ihi+
Mortimenr. "That in my wh6l&amp; obel ti
for  these  'officers  yw  +  r'S ." ,'c'}.  ';:   -' ar  "l '  ' r!:ri  ++-  -
iT   '. r MrNrtiihier yo ;.u  eed g  o  ,._f :o

r
I

i


;i
$ . ,
- d = s     - _;
x'            kr
n
t
!.f
r

GEORG~E NtLVILLE,-

further anxiety in the matter, unless you would pre-
fer to be present at the opening of the coffin."
"I am desirous of doing so, sir," said Mr. Mor-

it
I!'
It-

242

timer.
" My carriage shall be here early to-morrow,"
replied the chief. "I will dispatch the orders neces-
sary to have everything prepared, that we may not
be detained at the cemetery."
"Thank you, sir; and now I will give you my
suspicions, and the grounds upon which. they are
based. You shall then judge for yourself of the im-
portance of this procedure.' I go upon- the theory,
that one Robert Shank conducted that funeral; that
he was a mere tool of James Mordaunt; that he can
tell what has become of the clergyman. Now for my
reasons. A young man has been sent to prison for
forgery committed in the city of U  ."
"You mean George Melville."
"The same."
"How does that connect with this affair ?"
"This Robert Shank, you have, doubtless, learned
was a witness against this Melville."
"Yes; so I read in the testimony. He bought a
draft the same day Melville presented the check,"
said the chief.
"Well. This same Robert Shank, several years
since, waylaid George Melville, and attempted to rob
him. Melville shot his *companion.  On the same
evening, Shank attempted to shoot Melville, when
Melville gave Shank a bullet. I have no doubt this
Shank carries the mark of Melville's shot."
"1Can you prove these facts, Mr. Mortimier ?"
"Certainly! Quite satisfactorily; and now I m

GEOGEG MELVILLE.
obliged to make you acquainted with a imily mat-
ter, in order tlat you may see the conne tion which
links James Mordaunt with Melville's case, as well
as with the clergyman's death. Of course it need
go no futher. James Mordaunt is i tnsuecessfdl
suitor for the hand of Miss Mortimer. For three
years he has followed up the -matter and with my
consent. George Melville has been the accepted
lover who has stood in his way. Thomas Griswold,
Esq., has been Melville's friend and confidant. Mor-
daunt has ruined Thomas Griswold's father. That is
a fact now clearly established. Griswold has in turn
exposed Mordaunt to me in the Mary Wilcox matter.
We will suppose how, for the sake of the theory, that
George MIeMille's story is true, and that he is a victim
ofJames Mordaunt's revenge. Robert Shank is a prin-
cipal witness to convict him of forgery. Of course
no suspicion can attach against the officers of the
bank, or against any of the other witneses upon
whose testimony, Melville was convicted. Hobert
Shank therefore stands alone, open to suspicion~
"And of course he would be James Mordgnt's
tool," interrupted Chief M -1; "inasmuch as your
theory supposes that Melville's conviction was a
plot to prevent him from obtaining Miss ortimer's
hand."
"Just so !" said Mr. Mortimer.
"But Shank might have plotted this eoviction to
revenge the shot," suggested the chief of police
" Possibly; but not likely. It was a plot which
required awyer's brain to lay out, end a Robert
Shank to execute."
"I suppose the balance of your theory is as fol-

I

'      ,    I
Olt      t
S
Y
r
e
_              {)
I  v,               i
..'r          Ft
f,{
A,,
. ,,,. i
_
"  .             ,
, ,-                , ,
i4+ }'
'''                f
Q
77(rIi
1'       1
1111,
t
4'
h           r
. .

,


244 '     GEORGEMMEELIILLLLEE2.

lows,' said Chief M -1. "That when Mary Wil-
coxfirst sought for her rights, James Mordaunt desired
the death of the Rev. John Furnace to destroy testi-
moy. That Robert Shank was the tool. That the
funeral was a sham, merely to decoy the clergyman
into place where it would be safe to murder him;
and, that it was the head-work of James Mordaunt."
"You have the whole, sir, intuitively," said Mr.
Mortimer.
"And Mr. Mortimer, your theory will yet give a
correct solution of this tangled web of crime."
At an early hour the following morning, Chief
M---1, accompanied by Hon. B. F. Mortimer, en-
tered Greenwood Cemetery. The officers, sent the
day previous, upon examining the records of the cem-
etery, found that on the afternoon of the clergyman's
disappearance, three interments had been made.
That made at six o'clock was doubtless the one they
ought to examine. Orders were issued by the officers
of the cemetery which allowed the opening of the
grave. When the chief arrived, the grave had been
opened, but the coffin had not been disturbed. The
outer box, which was in a good state of preservation,
being opened, revealed a common cherry coffin.. This
being in turn opened, revealed a mass of dirt and
stones.
"The body has returned to dust pretty quick,"
observed one of the policemen.
"Let not a man touch a stone in that coffin with-
out my orders," said the chief.
Turning to one of the policemen, he said-.
"ESave you brought the boards ?"
"yes, sir I"

"Put them together."
In a few moments, a large platform like a flooring,
with a planed surface, and grooved tightly together,
was spread out upon the grass.
"Empty the contents of the coffin on that," said
the chief.
This was immediately done.
"Three of you watch the proceedings. Keep your
eyes constantly upon the work. Rountree and Baker
may carefully examine the whole mass."
The chief's, orders were obeyed to the letter. In
a few moments, the officer addressed as Rountree,
offered to the chief a jack-knife. The blade wad so
completely rusted that it was almost part of the
handle. No effort was made to open it.
"Was that in the heap ?" said-the chief, not touch-
ing it.
"It was, sir," said Rountree.
" Place a mark upon it that you may be able to
recognize it again. Gentlemen, you may all, notice
what the mark is," said the chief.
This order was obeyed.
"Now, Mr. Rountree, will you please clean the
handle of that knife as well as you can ?"
This order was also obeyed.
"Examine the knife carefully, and see if you find
any marks upon it," said the chief.
"I do sir," said Rountree.
"What ?" said the chief.
"The letters 'iR. S.' cut in rather a curious style."
"Are, you sure ?" said the chief.
"I am, sir," replied Rountree.
"Baker, put your mark also upon that knife."

GEORG E, MELVILLE.    245.:

K
E
C'
l- ,
'n
s .
{
(        _
,
;
7+,.
,
2
;S"
,              t
'


E'? It t- MEL41L~ ;~~~                                           EVLE

'"Mr. Rountree, you will key that kne in your
posession, ready to p-oduce it when you iveceive my
orderstoo dc"sp
"Continue the examination..
either Mr. Mortinmer,nor the chief, betrayed sur-
prise when the letters upon the knife handle were
read, although both saw -an almost certain solution to
the ryste-y attending the disappearance of the clergy-
ina:. Nothing further was found among the con-
tents of the coffin.  When the examination was
"flzished, the dirt, stones, etc., were ordered to be
eplaced in the coffin, and the whole put into the
condition it was before being opened.
Chief M.--  then placed his private seal upon the
box, and delivered it into the charge of two police
6fieers, with orders to convey it to New York.

xxxv.

A Council of War.

ON the afternoon of the same day the coffin was
exhumed, the following conversation occurred at
the law office of J. S. Taylor, Esquire.
"There is not sufficient testimony upon which to
arrest James  ordaunt; but I think we had better
immediately arrest Robert Shank, and charge him
with the murder of John Furnace," said Mr..Taylor.
"What is your opinion, Mr. Mortimer ?"
"Too soon. Strike when the iron is hot, not be-
fore," replied Mr. Mortimer.  "Our friend there,
Chief M    1, has set on foot an investigation which
must consume time, but which will, doubtless, event-
ually result in obtaining some further valuable testi-
mony."
"Yes, it will take time, as I have given orders for
every unelertaker in New York to be brought to ex-
amine the box and coffin, with the hope that we may
find some one who can identify it."
"In that case, you ,will have to watch this Shank
with great care," suggested Mr. Taylor.
"Better run that risk than have him escape for
want, of testimony. He can't be tried but once for
the same offence," said Mr. Mortimer.

4EOR0 U.. M.EL4ILLE.    247.


W
ray '

t

"He will find it impossible to escape from an
arrest, unless his suspicions are aroused," said tbe
chief..
"It appears to me safe to arrest him," suggested
Mr. Thomas Griswold, who had also been invited
to attend this council.
"You are correct, Mr. Griswold, so far as Robert
Shank is concerned; but you will doubtless perceive
that Shank's arrest will put the greater game on
guard. It will be a difficult task to connect James
JMordaunt with the murder of John Furnace if his
suspicions are aroused. He will not rest easy when
Shank is arraigned for the murder which he planned,"
said Mr. Mortimer.
" I agree with you, Mr. Mortimer," said Mr.
Taylor.
" Mr. Mortimer's advice is best," said Mr. Gris-
wold. "What say you, Chief M    1 '"
"For a still weightier reason, Mr. Mortimer's ad-
vice seems to me best to be followed, gentlemen.
Mr. Griswold, did your father's house burn a few
days before Mr. Griswold's failure ?" asked the chief.
"r It daid, -sir."
"Then it is more than probable that Robert Shank
is the incendiary who kindled that fire," said the
chief. If we can trace Shank that night, we may ob-
tain another important circumstance in this chain of
ep*idence. I have heard that one of the fire com-
panies elected you as an honorary member of their
company, for your good qualities, as a bold man, on
that ocasion.  What is the number of that come
"No. 20, sir."

*

GEORaE NMELVILLE.

249

GEORGE ~MELVILL-E.

The. chief made a minute of this answer in his
memorandum-book.
"I am perfectly satisfied,".said Mr. Taylor, "that
the iron must be heated hotter."
"Gentlemen, I move an adjournment of this.coun-
cil for one week," said the chief. "Mr. Mortimer,
your presence in the city must be kept carefully con-
cealed from James Mordaunt."
"I shall leave for home by this evening's train,
sir," said Mr. Mortimer.
"And will return"
"One week from to-day, Mr. M---1, without
fail," replied Mr. Mortimer.

248


250 ,         EORG-.E MELVILL E ,

XXXVI.
A Smash-up in Broadway, N. Y.-The New York Hospital-The Nev
York Press--Sarah E. Graham a Lunatic.
WmLE the indefatigable chief of police is endeavor-
ing to unravel the tangled web of crime, woven by
Jamies IMordaunt, we must ask the reader to go with
us once more to No.- Twenty-third street, where the
body of Sarah E. Graham, at the dead of night, lies
senseless upon the floor in the second story front room
of the house. The very carpet that the beautiful girl
had- selected and paid for out of money furnished by
the fiend who had strike her down, was now absorb-
ing her blood as it oozed from a ghastly wound upon
her head. Now and then a sudden tremor or spasm
ran through the frame of the prostrate body, causing
a shudder to creep through the nerves of her de-
stroyer. It was not like the shudder of fear, easily
dispelled by aid of a determined will; it was the
cold, creeping horror, freezing the pulse, and making
the heart to hear the echo of its beating with fearful
distinctness. For several minutes, James Mordaunt
tood a if transfixed with terror, gazing upon his vic-
tim. At last, by a great effort, he roused himself for
.thenext act in the tragedy. Going to the door;e
called Shank. The, tone of his voice sounded so un-

natural that he himself was frightened..Shan's.
entrance into the room; even to. the man of learning,
power, and position, was a relief. 3 The sympathy of a
hardened villain, whose arms were steeped in huma.
blood, was then most welcome.
"What ! you hain't done for her I". exclaimed
Shank.
"She drew a pistol on me," said Mordaunt, thus
defaming the character of poor Sarah by a black
falsehood to palliate his guilt before Shank.-
"She shouldn't a' done that. Didn't know that
folks must defend their lives, did she ?" said Shank.
" I seized her barely in time," said Mqrdaunt.
" Wal, she's .done for," said Shank; "and now,
what's the orders? It won't do to leave her in this
spot.
"Of course not," replied Mordaunt.
"What do you propose? I ain't good at a plan;
but I ken do the work,.as you know, counsellor,
said Shank, putting on a patronizing smile, which
now was received by Mordaunt without the least
feeling of wounded self-love. Interest had suddenly
instilled into his mind equality of feeling, as well as
equality of dissimulation. He grasped Shank's had,
and shaking it warmly, said:
"]Mr. Shank, you hgve a noble soul. I have never
fully appreciated your worth until now. Conima
minds ray' become intimate in friendship, on short
acquaintance ;' but it has taken a good many tirring
deeds to bring us-together."
"That's bin the case with you towards me,
si re but I've read you quicker. I'se been your
friend, and was bound you should know me. 'Tai't

GEOR( E. 'MELVILLE.   251


:252GEOR-GE  "LIL

GEORGE 'MELVILLE.  253

to be'spected a man of all your laming should like a
min like me, 'til you know'd I was worth sumthin'.
It's all right now, squire. We ken hey any amount
ov confidence in each other, 'cause we knows one
another," said Shank.
After a number of plans for disposing of the body
had been offered and duly discussed, one suggested
by Shank was adopted. Shank accompanied Mor-
daunt to his aunt's house. Mordaunt there gave
him a disguise of a. French gentleman, a dress
which he had formerly used at a masquerade. In
this dress, Shank went to a livery stable, and hired an
open buggy.with two fast horses, ordering it to be sent
to one of the principal hotels.
As Shank received the reins from the hostler, he
tossed him a French gold piece, which made the eyes
of the man glisten with pleasure. As he walked into
the stable of his employer, a half hour after, he in-,
formed a jockey in waiting,'" as how the Frinch gin-.
tlemin was a gintlemin, faith ; fur he gin me a raal
goold pace."
The coin was duly examined over and over, but
finally it was pronounced genuine. It was now
nearly half-past two in, the morning. Sarah's cloth-
ing was duly arranged. The bonnet was not tied
on, but only carelessly placed on her head. She was
then put into the carriage, and Shank took his seat
"Good-night, sir," said Shank, as he drove off.
"Goodnight, monsieur," said Atordaunt. "I hope
to see you and your estimable lady again oon.1'
he estimable lady did not seen to- appreciate the
compliment. Mordaunt then entered the house and

set to work, removing all traces -of blood.        He cut
out the part of the      carpet that was stained, and
burned it; determining to have every piece of furni-
ture in the house sold as soon as possible, and to let
the building. He accomplished both ; but just before
the bustle of removal, the carpet, which was cut, had
been quietly abstracted by Shank, and properly
taken care of.
On the morning after these terrible events in the
history of James Mordaunt, the New             York   press
contained announcements of a frightful run-away in
Broadway.      The following, taken from      the columns
of the Daily -     -is a specimen of the whole.
FRIGHTFUL ACCIDENT.
A-FEMALE TERRLBLY BRUISED!
SCENE AT THE CITY HOSPITAL.
DIFFICULT OPERATION PERFORMED WITH
COMPLETE SUCCESS, BY DR. ----!
HOPES FOR HE&amp; RECOVERY.
"At about three o'clock this morning, two horses, attached to alight
buggy, were discovered running down Broadway at a frightful speed.
A lady was in the buggy. The street being almost deserted, the
horses had a fair field. When nearly opposite Canal street, they ran
into a carriage which had commenced to cross Broadway ; a general
smash-up ensued. The lady was thrown out; the driver of the
carriage run into, had his arm broken; the carriages were badly
injured; one of the horses crossing the street, was killed upon the
spot; a second received a frightful gash upon his right fore quarter,
which extended down his leg to the knee joint. All the horses were
thrown to the ground. The driver and the lady were both taken up
senseless, and conveyed immediately to the City Hospital. But little
hopes are entertained that the lady will recover. As yet, her friends
have not appeared, consequently her name is unknown, as sheis
unle to speak. Around her neck was a silken cord, attached to
whichis a smallminiature-bearing upon the back the name, .Louia


.. 0raham." The miniature is evidently intended for some friend,
perhaps the mother of the injured woman. There can be little doubt'
but that her friends will visit her, when they hear of the accident.
P. S.-As we go to press we learn that the buggy was hired in
Fourth Avenue ly a Frenchi gentleman. What is very eia able,
he cannot now be found; but the owner of the carriage has received,
through the mail, a letter containing three hundred dollars in bills,
upon different banks. The Frenchman gave the hostler a gold piece
at the hotel, but, as appears by the statements of the proprietor of the
hotel, no such person was boarding with him."
For several weeks, Sarah Graham lay unconscious
of the   anxiety which the physicians and         nurses
attached to the New York Hospital felt in her behalf.
The very mystery which surrounded her--no friends
-no relatives ; evidently one accustomed to a luxu-
rious home, but deserted by those who should pi-otect
her; suspicions aroused that she might prove to be
one of the many thousand females, living in New
York, who have forgotten the path of virtue ; all
these circumstances tended to- attract especial atten-
tion to her.
Bat how terrible was the anxiety which filled the
mind of James Mordaunt ; his victim         was beyond
his grasp unless he could compass her death by cor-
rupting some employed at the hospital.      At any hour
lhe might wake up to consciousness, and then--e
vas no longer safe upon his native soil.
" She must die !" said the unhappy man, with
terrible energy, as he paced his room, having left the
dilow which no longer relieved his toi-worn body.
Hour after hour, James Mordaunt waited for the
coming day. And the day came; but still thevision
of Sarah Graham      haunted an imp agination heated
almost to frenzy.    She rase before him      from   her

1

4

'M

O Jam! G E  M J I 1 I L . .  E

GEORGE MELVILLE.
couch of suffering, an avenging spectre. The long,
blood-stained bandages surrounded her head, her
glossy full curls no longer formed a dark back-
ground, upon which* to throw in relief the lustrous,
soul-bearing eye. The skillful hand of a'good Sama-
ritan had carefully, but surely, shaved the proud
locks frou- the sick girl's brow; and, oh ! that pale
and emaci ted countenance ! How each deep line of
suffering carries captive the belief of her hearers, as,
with returning consciousness, the stricken girl whis-
pers in their ears, bent close to catch each word,
"James Mordaunt was my cowardly assailant."
And, to that guilty soul the whisper is a knell: of
ruin, fearfully distmct; but now, returning night;
and then returning day ; no relief I He has no nee
to send his messenger to the hospital, that he may
larn the progress of her battle with death. The
faithful chroniclers of each day's history of the nation
did not exclude the cause of a friendless girl from
their columns. Each day the eyes of a whole nation
were directed to her case; and say not that this
watchful care failed to arouse the ambition of skillful
surgeons and experienced nurses. Human sympathy
may be strong, but human sympathy ever becomes
stronger when an honorable ambition hands the
wheel.   While there are imitators of Our Lord and
Master, there are none of His perfection.
Two months after Sarah Graham first became an
inmate of the New Yo k Hospital, James Mordaunt
was seated in his law omce. Taking up a Umormlg
paper; he read as follows:
"The young female at the New York Hospital, whose case has
excited so much sympathy, we are happy to learn, is now pronotnced


256             GEORGE        MELVILLE.
out of danger from her wounds, by the attending physicians. Fears
are, however, entertained that she will not recover her reason in
some years. While the body has conquered death, the struggle has
been toq severe for reason to maintain its -throne. The poor girl
wanders in her mind. It is understood that, at last, her friends have
found her out. A Mrs. Louisa E. Graham, attracted by the published
accounts of the affair, has found in this young female, an only daughter,
Sarah E. Graham, who left her home, unknown to her mother, about
eight years since. This is the first trace the bereaved and deserted
mother has received of her lost daughter. And now the daughter
knows not the mother. The case is a sad one. Mrs, Graham says
she has always believed Sarah was enticed away by a young wood-
chopper, at the time paying his attentions to her, but whom she has
never .seen, since. Mrs. Graham then resided, and still resides at a
small village in the State of Rhode Island. We have learned that
sheis very desirous. that her daughter should have the benefit of
treatment in the New York State Lunatic Asylum, at the .city of
Utica. Her means will not warrant the expense. It remains for a
generous public, to decide the matter. Contributions to the fund may
be left at this office."
James Mordaunt arose from his seat as he finished
the reading of this article, and paced his office in
deep thought.      He felt that he had gained an exten-
sign of time, like a man who has lifted his note with
borrowed.funds, and postponed the hour of the fatal
protest.
The funds requisite for enabling Mrs. Graham            to
gratify her wish were handed in to her on the day
following the appeal for them.         One prominent firm
dispatched the following note to the editor :
NEw Yon 18--.
- --,Esq., DIToK or, , C
"DAR SIR: You are hereby authorized to draw on us at sight for
any and all sums necessary to bear one year's expenses of Sarah E.
Graham, while undergoing treatment at the State Lunatic Asylum, at
Utica.
Yours truly,                   H ..
BLODGETT, JOHNsToN, CASTINS   C

GEORGE MELVILLE,.      25't

XXXVa.
Bell and Charger.
"GooD bye," said Mrs. Clara Griswold, as Bell
Mortimer left the cabin of the Cayuga Lake steamer,
which she had visited in company wish her brother
Frederick.
Mrs. Griswold had been , spending a few weeks
with Bell at Aurora. To Clara the visit had proved
a disappointment. Knowing that Bell Mortimer's
happiness was locked within the iron bolts of a
prison, she had felt that the pleasures of her visit
would flow from sympathizing with her cousin. The
result had proved a strange and wide contrast. We'
go back to the second day of her visit. It was a
lovely morning in April. ,The sun was not yet
above the eastern horizon. Two white horses, of
almost matchless beauty, caparisoned with the trap-
pings customary for ladies., were pawing the gravel
walk within the yard, in front of Bell's home. The
groom with difficulty restrained the impatient steeds.
Soon the front door opened, and Bell Mortimer made
her exit, her face radiant with .smiles, and the rich
color which health: and the exercise of arranging her
riding-habit had given. She was followed by her
lovely cousin, Mrs. Griswold.

1


9% GEOIIe t EtVZLLE.
"James, how are the horses this morning ?"-said,
Bell.
"Perhaps, Miss Bell, you can howld Charger, but
Misthress Clara had better take Jolly. He's the lad
that will aise : up a bit with those little white hands
she owns. Whoa! Charger 1"
James had no further time to talk, for the horses
gave him trouble enough to keep them quiet. Bell,
gracefully throwing her habit over her left arm, ran
down upon the walk, and seized Charger by the
bridle.
"Good morning; Charger," said she, patting his
gracefully curving neck.
The noble animal quickly whirled his body in a
half circle, and stood gazing intently for an instant
-at Bell, bending forwards both of his ears, and open-
ing wide his nostrils. He then gave one or two
slight tosses to his head, when Bell again addressed
lim:
"Charger ! what frightens you?  Do you know
Bell ?" Continuing to pat his neck, she began a soft,
warbling sound. The horse was evidently accus-
tomed to this caress, for he immediately placed his
head upon Bell's shoulder, enabling the fair girl to
press her cheek softly against it.
" There, my noble friend; I thought you had not
forgotten Bell."
She then took a few oats from the groom, which
the horse ate out of her hand..
"Why, Bell Mortimer I" said Clara, "how ca e
you act soi I should be afraid."
"COharger is one of my best friends, Clara," reply id
Bell. "Fred says I have bestowedl 11m a

GEORGE MELvILLE.

,25

,

.4

upon him. - This is because I am pure of hi M ec-
tion. See how he loves me."
Tying the bridle to the saddle, so that it did riot
impede the animal's movements, patting him upon
his head, and repeating the soft warbling, which the
horse no sooner heard than he began to evince his
affection for her, Bell gave Charger his head, and
walked backwards to the carriage-block near the path.
Having gained the top of the block, she stood mo-
tionless, with her eye fixed intently on the eye of the
horse. Charger stood watching Bell with a most
intense gaze, occasionally pawing.the ground with his
fore-foot, but not for an instant taking his eye from
Bell's. She then clapped her hands twice together,
-nd uttered the single word-
"-Charger !"
The animal bounded towards her, and in two leaps
was at the block, in proper position for Bell to mount.
Before mounting, Bell untied her hat, and laid:it
upon the block. She then leaped into the saddle
and rode up to Clara, who stood watching her pro-
ceedings in perfect amazement.
"Come, Clara," said Bell, "mount your horse, for
we must away before Fred is up, or he will think his
company an infallible necessity to prevent us from
breaking our necks."
"But, Bell, you are not going without your hat"
said Clara; and, gathering up her habit, she started
to obtain it for her.
As soon as Clara had gained a position between
herself and the block, Bell patted Charger ai the
neck,,and' reaching her arm forwards with the large
end of her whip, she poiznted:tothe hat.


260

G EOERG E MELV I[ILL-E.

Charger instantly comprehended what was wanted
of him, for, springing aside and passing Clara, he
seized the hat with his teeth.. Shaking his head two
or three times, he turned around and stood facing
Clara.: Bell: then  again commenced her soft warb-
ling, caressing the horse at the same time... Charger,
after on or two further-toases of his head, bent his
neck in a half-circle, and allowed Bell to take the
hat. At this instant, James Mordaunt emerged from
the path leading towards the house from one of the
front gates. Clara was in the act of mounting when
Mordaunt addressed Bell.
" That was a splendid feat, Miss Mortimer-none
but a fairy queen could subdue a horse to such per-
feet obedience.  You must possess some magical
powers."
" And let James Mordaunt beware how he excites
their use to accomplish the ends of justice," replied
Bell, directing her horse boldly towards the spot
where Mordaunt stood, at the same time bending her
gaze upon James, the groom.
"James," continued she, "ring the front door-bell,
and inform Mr. Mortimer, from me, that James Mor-
daunt, Esq., of New York, is in waiting."  Then
turning to Mordaunt, she exclaimed: "Good morn-
ing, sir. You will perceive I was about taking a
ride. Come, Mrs. Griswold."
Before Mordaunt could reply, both Bell and Clara
were at the gate. Ere he could recall himself to
counteract Bell's orders to the groom, the ladies
were galloping merrily on the road. He had arrived
at Aurora the night before, by the aid of a livery
establishment obtained at Auburn.  Having been

a"

GEORGE MEL Y ILLE.

261

unable to gain a morning of sleep, he had chosen an
early walk. Arriving opposite Mr. Mortimer's resi-
dence, he had distinguished Bell's voice, and deter-
mined to surprise her. But for Bell's orders to the
groom, no unpleasant consequences could have re-
sulted. Now he was placed in a disagreeable posi-
tion. The bell had been rung by the groom, and
Bell's message delivered. In a few moments, word
came from Mr. Mortimer that he would be down
presently. Mordaunt, therefore, took possession of
an iron seat near the front entrance, and began to
study an address to Mr. Mortimer.

F


xxxYmy

An Aine-Breakfast Ride--The Homestead of an American
Statesman.
Tn ride from Aurora to the city of Auburn is,
full of interest. The road taken by Bell and Clara,
for their-horse-back excursion, leads east from Au-
rora, by a long and very steep ascent. Nature has
surrounded all of the inland waters in western New
York with a high elevation of country. We say
country, because the face of the surrounding lands
is upon a general level with the ridge of the hills
leading down to the lakes. Before they had reached
the top of this ascent, Bell had succeeded in filling
her cousin Clara with more spirit for real enjoyment
than she had possessed since bidding her husband
good bye at New York. Many a'lazy chanticleer
was aroused to produce his first crowing by Clara's
merry ring of laughter, excited at Bell's wit, vented'
upon barnyards, trees,. cows, farmhouses, sheep,
ete, without merey. And now, the young ladies-are
about to enter the city of Auburn by the principal
road from the south.    Merrily they gallop-over
the stony street," passing a 'number of beautifully
adorned residences, evincing alike the taste and'

r

263

wealth of their proprietors.   Opposite a small
park, Bell suddenly reined in her horse, allowing
Clara, who had lagged somewhat behind, to come up.
Together, they walked their horses past the park.
A little in advance, upon their left, were several
immense ,poplar trees, relics of that enterprise which
characterized the early settlers of. New York, who
loved the scenes of the mother country so well,
that the forest trees of America became, to their
taste, insignificant.  Behind the poplar trees, and,
commencing at 'the northeast corner of the little
park, and running a long distance northerly, was
a high lattice fence, painted green. Behind the
whole length of this fence was a dense mass of
noble"shade-trees, the intervals between their stately
trunks being sprinkled with. fruit trees and rare
shrubbery, forming a rural retreat impenetrable to,
the gaze of the passer-bf. Standing nearer to the
northern line of the copse-like retreat, arose a stately
mansion of mason work.    Here and there, a spot
upon its front, a part of a shutter, a. corner of the
eaves, ora towering chimney were visible through
the interstices of the waving verdure. Rising
from  the side-walk, upon a line with the fence
and directly in front of the mansion,; were erected
two square stone columns, each supporting upon its
top a crouching lion. Between the stone columns,
which, evidently, have been erected to do duty as a
support, as well as to serve as ornaments, was a
large iron gate. ,Open it, reader ! It has never
been closed, by the hand which caused it first to
swing upon its hinges, at any calls of benevolee,
hospitality, or friendship.

i

GEORGE M aMVILL.

,y
"t
,t
7
t    +
r4
.[I
A.V
f
, '+J


264         GEORGE MELVILLE.                                                GEORGE MEIvY.
Reader, you stand upon soil which will be hal-
lowed ground. On the page of history it will be
known as the "Homestead of an American States-
man, NEw YORK's FAVORITE SoN."
XXXIX.
Fort-Hill Cemetery-" Who is there to Mou
carry on a Correspondence with a Convict
burn State Prison-Bell Mortimer in her S
"ON-tWo-three' four-five
as she counted the strokes o
" Come, Clara, we iust not
That is a pleasant spot, and pleas
ter there,; but-steady, Chirger
S" Charger is as impatient as his m
The ladies tightened the reins
and soon turning the corner of Sou
way up Genesee, the principal
MacAdam would be proud of his
ride through the streetsof the city
of the boulder-peaked pavement
macadamized roads have become
they ought never to be superseded
like Auburn.
The pace of the young ladies,
Genesee street, would have done
the battle-field. Having arrived
moderated their speed to an ambli
"I wonder if the keeper will l
ticket,'" eaid Clara.
12

LLE.           265
rn for Logan ?"---How to
-Distant View of the Au-
anctum.
-six," said Bell
f the   city  clock.
stop  here longer.
ant memories clus-
steady sir."
istress,"said Clara.
upon their horses,
Lth street, took their
street of the city.
invention could he
r of Auburn. None
s are there. Good
e the fashion, and
in a country home
as they passed up
honor to aids upon
at Fort street, they
ng gait.
et us in without a


266         GEORGE MELVILLE.
"Oh, y," replied Bell; " he is well known to me.
His youngest baby was christened under my orders."
They had arrived at the entrance to "Fort Hill
Cemetery," a ,handsome lodge built with some pre-
tension to taste, both in form and style. The keeper
readily admitted' them; and upon learning that they
had ridden from Aurora, he insisted upon their
alighting, and partaking of some breakfast before
visiting the cemetery.
"No, indeed, Miss Bell, I won't take a no for an
answer. You must dismount."
Bell was in a perplexity; "she did not want auiy
breakfast "-" couldn't eat a mouthful "-1 wasn't a
bit tired "--"really hadn't time to wait "-"must be at
home by eight or nine o'clocl'-" had left company
there" This last excuse decided her. She lightly
leaped from her saddle, politely requesting the
keeper to assist Clara in dismounting. The picture
of James Mordaunt in Aurora gave to the keeper an
honor which would have been eagerly sought after by
half the good housekeepers in "the loveliest village
of the plain."
It cleanliness, savoury cooking, rich mocha coffee,
a snow-white cloth, and a heart-felt welcome, are of
anyvaln e the young ladies did not waste their half
hour. Bell declared she had not enjoyed a break-
fast before in her whole existence.: Of course she
was extravagant in the expression ; but, kind reader,
Bell Mortimer was an American, and as such, had a
right to use extravagant expressions. It is the nature
of the American blood.
The young ladies (we have not forgotten that one
is married), having again mounted.their horsesbade

GEORGE MELVILLE.   267

the kind-hearted keeper good bye, and started upon
their visit to the cemetery.
The first object of interest was a receiving-vault,
builtin the side of an immense till, which rises to an
elevation overlooking the tallest spire in the beautiful
city which lies at its feet. Up this hill, by a serpen-
tine 'carriage path, the ladies wended their way.
Mount Auburn is the next object of interest. From
this spot, the east view of the city 'of Auburn is ob-
tained. East, northeast, north, northwest and west,
the range of vision takes in homesteads, yards, gar-
dens, and streets. The domes of the public buildings,
with their metal coverings, reflect the bright sun's
rays, awakening in theeart thoughts pure and holy.
And towering in mid air, against the northern hdri-
zon, is "Copper John."  And who is Copper John?
A faithful sentinel is Copper John., Many years
have elapsed since, with shouldered musket, he took
up his post upon the loftiest dome of the Auburn
State Prison. Towering far above the highest wall
of that immense structure, he has stood, ever faithful
to his trust, grateful for the gentle summer breezes, or
boldly laughing at the stormy passions of hoary winter.
But, like a watchful sentinel, this, time-server, as the
young ladies court his nearer acquaintance through
their pocket-telescope, returns all their advances
with dignified silence. lie has no moments to bestow
upon fair hearts-a confirmed old bachelor is he,
mindful that part of his duty is to set an example
Of integrity to all public servants. He remembers,
co, the extensive interests over which he presides*
*i~oper Jhn~"her made animate, is a mnetallie fleure of a

i'
.
,-
,,.
.
.

~it

I

II


;'fi x. 
"Jb' r
r { \
_ .E    F' '
^.,r,,         ,
_i  ,
,t,, ;'
i,    ,g
'f       '

GEORGE MELVILLE.

And, from the position occupied by the young ladies,
the size, shape, and extent of the prison appear at a
single glance. The beholder obtains a side view of
the structure from a distant point, overlooking the
top of the walls, and taking in their whole extent.
For the purpose of enjoying this view, the ladies.had
been obliged to leave their horses in the care of the
lodge-keeper, who had accompanied them thus far
into the cemetery for the purpose. The name, "Fort
Hill Cemetery," is derived from the fact that, within
the inclosure are the remains of an Indian fort, in
such distinct preservation that its circumference may
be easily traced. Upon a spot near the centre of the
remains of the fort, a monument, between forty and
fifty feet high, built of dare hewn stone, has been
erected, linking the primitive race which roamed the
American forests, mighty hunters of the wilderness,
with the white man, "who has claimed the soil for
an inheritance." It bears this inscription:
" WI1o 1S THERE TO MOURN FOR LOGAN.?
"Clara," said Bell, "we must cut short our visit
here this morning. It will not accord with home
matters if we loiter much longer."
"I am willing to say good bye to the cemetery,"
answered Clara, "for, really, Bell, you have chatted
me into a state of mind bordering upon anything but
seriousness appropriate for this place."
"If that remark is true, I take no blame to myself,"
said Bell, "because .you have laughed more heartily
soldier, with shouldered musket, placed as an ornament upon the cen-
tral and most elevated dome of the prison.

GEORGE MELVILLE.

269

than at any time in your previous history. ' Charger'
and 'Jolly' both act as if they were ashamed of us.
They are quiet as deacons handing around the contri-
bution plate; but for me to follow the example set
by our ponies, would-be rank hypocrisy."
Don't you do it, then, Bell; you never could act
contrary to your real feelings. I vote for home."
"And I," said Bell.
The young ladies, thereupon, began to retrace their
steps. After reachingGenesee street, much to Clara's
surprise, Bell turned north into a by-street.
"It will never do for us to promenade Genesee
street at this hour," remarked Bell. "We shall be
unable to leave Atburn for a week."
"We can tie on our veils," suggested Clara.
The horses are as well and better known than
their riders," responded Bell.
At this instant a gentleman endeavored to, hail
Miss Mortimer. But she was suddenly very deaf,
and "Charger" became wonderfully active, bounding
forwards at a racing pace. After leading Clara
through several of the by-streets of the city, Bell
entered again upon one of the main streets.
" Clara," said she, "I must mate a short call at
that house to the right. You can be a good girl, and
wait for me."
"Certainly, Bell, I will do so," replied her cousin;
"but ' Charger' will give you trouble ?"
"Not in the least. I never tie him. He would
break his halter, and come to me,, if I should sing to'-
him," said Bell, as she leaped from her saddle.
Throwing the bridle over the saddle, Bell patted
Charger upon the neck for an instant, and left him,

268

I

,r

{

-s

Alp -


47-0   GEORGE MELVILLE.

Having reached the door steps of a neat but unpre-
tending residence, she pulled the bell.
"sthe Rev. Mr. W----; at home ?" asked she
of a beautiful little girl who answered the sum-,
mors.
"Yes, ma'am! Uncle's home! I'll go and call,
him."  And away she tripped to do so, and Bell
overheard her speaking in rapid tones, almost out of
breath' ----
Uncle! the pretty lady's come again. She's in
the hall-in the hall"
"Yes, dear! Not quite so loud," replied her uncle,
as be lifted his little niece from the floor, and gave
her a kiss'of affection and pride.
"Good morning, my dear' Miss Mortimer !" said
the kind-hearted clergyman. "I am very happy to
see you. You will not be disappointed. May I
compliment you upon your bloom?"
"Certainly, if I deserve it," said Bell! "I am not
afraid that I shall grow vain under compliments from
one who is so kind and faithful in laying bare my
Faults."
But the good man did not apparently hear this
tribute to his worth; he was very busy, endeavoring
toyfind the key to his secretary. It was soon ob-
tained, and the secretary duly opened. From a little
drawer he took a letter, the thickness of which gave
evidence that its contents were somewhat lengthy.
This letter he handed to Bell.
Thank you, dear sir," said Bell, "I can never
repay this kindness."
"dy duty requires me to perform. all I have for
you, iss Mortimer, and, consequently, I ai not

entitled even to your thanks. Have you any com-
munication in return ?"
"Yes, sir," said Bell, handing the clergyman a
letter.
"I can truly say, Miss Mortimer, that the privi-
lege of being the medium of your correspondence
with George Melville is one of the greatest pleasures
I derive from my office, for I have not .a remaining
doubt that he is the victim of a wicked plot."
These words were like sweet music to Bell. Never
before had the worthy clergyman expressed his
thoughts on the subject. Bell had received through
him, many letters from, and sent many letters to,
George Melville. This correspondence she had con-
ducted so secretly, that not even her brother Fre-
derick knew of it. Soon after Melville's incarcera-
tion, Bell had learned that the usual medium by
which to send letters to convicts is .through the
chaplain of the prison'; this officer being required
to acquaint himself with the contents of all letters
for convicts, and use his own discretion in regard to
their delivery. Bell had made occasional calls upon
the chaplain, but, usually, that officer had taken his
own conveyance, and made Aurora a visit whenever
he had letters for Bell. The ride was a pleasure,
and, certainly; the happiness conferred upon Bell
more than repaid the good man, had he not found,
in addition, that all such attentions were like "bread
cast upon the waters."
We cannot follow the fair equestrians on their re-
turn to Aurora. - Their arrival was a matter of no
consequence, except to themselves, for Bell found
her home deserted. A little note from her father in-

,

GEORGE MELVILLE:    2 T


272           EORGE MELVILLE.
formed her that he would be absent for a week or
more.; that he was obliged to take Frederick away
also. Mrs. Mortimer had gone to spend the dlay
with a lady friend.
" Olara, coz, we are monarchs of all we survey for
at least one week," said Bell, tossing her father's note
upon the table. "Father has deserted us for a week,
and pressed Fred into his service. Mother has got
on one of her visiting fits, and will expect us not to
give her any trouble. I am glad of it: she has been
growing sedate for a month past. A few visits with
her old friends will bring back the smiles."
"I can get along very well to-day," replied Clara;
" the ride has been too long, and I must pay the pen-
alty by taking some rest."
"By keeping up the same exercise for a few weeks
you would become another being, Clara," replied
Bell. "I shall prescribe twenty miles horse-back ride
per diem; half at a canter, a quarter at a walk, and
the balance at a trot. You will then be in condition
to return to New York and make a sensation. You
New Yorkers fondly imagine that a railroad trip into
the co ntry; a peep from a carriage at the green
fields; by extra effort, one glance at the rising sun;
three or four morning tasks at swallowing a half-
dozen glasses of Congress water at a fountain; a pic-
nic; a few walks in the woods, and, by extraordinary
exertion, two or three miles on horse-back; that this'
catalogue of labors will restore the bloom sacrificed
to a winter's campaign of city life."
"You:have given me thirty miles for the first dose,
Bell; and as I am   decidedly fatigued, you must
allow me to "

GEORGE -MELVILLE.                213
"Go and rest yourself, Clara, coz ? Of course I
allow it," interrupted Bell
Bell was quite willing to make this concession, for
just then a letter needed her attention; and experi-
ence had taught her that its perusal would occupy
considerable time. Clara's desire for rest accorded
well, therefore, with Bell's wish to read her letter."
"Bess, I do not desire to be interrupted for a
couple of hours," said Bell.
"Yes, Miss Bell; you's engaged; please call agin.
I knows."
"That is right, Bess.; be sure and say I am en-
gaged if there are visitors."
Bell retired. to a small room on the second floor,
which she had appropriated to her own use. Closing
the door, and turning the key in the lock, she seated
herself in a large arm-chair. king George Mel-
ville's letter, she broke the seal. Before commencing
its perusal, she turned her eye towards heaven. A
solemn earnestness took possession of her features.
Slowly the hand which held the letter was placed
upon the arm of the chair. The eyelids closed ; the
rich color of the morning was gone, and a pale white-
ness gradually spread over, her face; the head was
bent forward, until it rested upon the unoccupied
hand, which had slowly risen for its support ; the
lips occasionally moved, and a nervousness caused
the muscles of the face atintervals to make quick
and short vibrations.  But these soon ceased. A
tear-drop moistened the pale cheek. Thought was
too intensely at work for the lovely weeper to heed
it. She was in the solitude devoted to her. by a
father's care, and there her tears were sacred. Be-

'' , e?
r - ,
' tiv
'     4 L
y       y     '
) t       ,
.          L
}           Li
4',           :

i,


os o GE   E LV i L LE -
fore pits coipanion could folow, .a gentle blush
inedpn her cheek, and a smile of contentment
joe  the lonely drop.  And what caused these
changes of countenance? During this. short period
thought, Bell Mortimer had seen the repulsive
surroundings of a prison, against which the noble
heart :which held her love, patiently, but bravely,
contended, as the felon should; and then thetear-
hdrop. wa born! But again her soul had risen beyond
this world in holy prayer. By Him, the beloved of
her youth was restored to her side, and then came:
back the smile of hope. And now she pressed the
letter to her lips and began to trace its contents.
." "Bellthouhast a true and noble heart. May it
be unto thee according to thy wishI)"
Wod the reader peruse the letter of affection ?
or, with us, would he not rather leave the generous
girl to enjoy her solitude?

a aOG en MELILLE.            X75
XL.
A Change in the progress of events foreshadoedEercise of Wits
-The Statesman proves too much for the Lawyer.
a JAMES  L. GRIswoLD has paid up all his debts at
the rate of one hundred cents on the dollar," said a
New York merchant to William Hastings, as they
were taking a lunch together in one of the thousand
dining saloons of Gotham, so convenient to the hun-
gry man who has a pressure of business on hand.
"yes ;and :now his credit will be better than
ever," replied Hastings.
"It ought to! it ought to! But have you had
time to look at the morning papers ?"
"No," said Hastings.. " Is there anything very Uin
portant? i read over the business paragraphs.
"James Mordaunt, Esq. a Wall street lawyer, has
been arrested in one of the western cities. It is in
the telegraphic news. That's all my paper says;dbut
I've heard a rumor that he is implicated in a murder."
This announcement produced no visible effect
upon Mr. Hastings. Had he chosen, he might have
given his acquaintance the whole particulars of the
arrest; but, instead, he evinced a most unusual
iinxiety lest the waiter should provide"him his roast
beef too well done-.

Vt.                                                                        _       t
to                                                I                            t       . -                         +
i T     jt      ,        _ _                          -                                                 -        "                      _

'r.
i                     a..
t
.   _                                   .'t
.    -       -       ;.fir'
4 _            _     _t.
1      1                        + t
. .t       "M f        ,i      a

T


GEORGI MELvILIE.
"Rare, sir! rare! I shall have no patience with'
you if you don't bring it rare."
Do you know Mordaunt, Mr. Hastings ?" pur-
sued the merchant.
Oh yes! le lives in  fthi Avenue. Is a man
of great ability. Know him well."
When ?Mr. Mortimer received the word from Bell
that James Mordaunt, Esq., was in waiting, he had
not yet arisen from his bed. It was a matter of no
small anxiety to divine the object which caused
Mordaunt's visit at so early an hour. lie looked out
and saw Bell and Clara, as they were disappearing
at some distance down the road. He also saw that
it wanted some time yet of sunrise. The more he
thought, the more Moi'daunt's extraordinarily early
call perplexed him. Could it be that Mordaunt had
become acquainted with any of his operations
against hunm Under ordinary circumstances, he
would not have left his room, at such an hour even
upon the call of James iMgordaunt; but now the
summons was from    Bell.  The servant had not
merely informed him that Mordaunt was in waiting;
but that Bell had ordered the message. to be de-
livered. -
Good morning, Mr. Mordaunt! You -are an
early riser, said Mr. Mortimer, as he came out
upon the front steps. "When did you arrive at
Aurora? Walk in, sir; the morning air is chilly."
Yes,.sir, I am an early riser, for this morning
at least; but I am very sorry to be even the inno
cent cause of placing you on a par with me in the.
matter.
"Well, sir, it is rather early for me; but  fnd,

GEORGE'MELVILLE.
usually, that half the battle consists in the effort
necessary to overcome sleep.. Once wide awake, the
desire to sleep longer departs."
"But Mr. Mortimer," said Mordaunt, "you have
not given me the opportunity to explain the cause of
this early call upon you."
"Time enough for that, sir. We have literally
the whole day before us, for the sun is not yet above
the horizon," replied -Mr. Mortimer.
Although this remark was made in a polite and
gentlemanly tone, still it -left tordaunt in consider-
able doubt as to his position with Mr. Mortimer.
He had last parted with Mr. Mortimer a warm friend.
His present visit to Aurora was planned for the pur-
pose of learning whether those friendly relations had
undergone any change. George Melville had been
a convict in the Auburn State Prison nearly two
years. During that time, Mordaunt had never neg-
lected an opportunity to do Mr. Mortimer favors.
His position with Bell, he had learned, in a way that
aroused the deepest revenge of his base heart.
Bell's, literally, cavalier treatment left him in no
doubt as to her sentiments. Her remark, also, way
a warning to him. It contained a threat; and, to
his experience, that threat was a key to Bell's
thoughts. lHe was satisfied she suspected his agency
in Melville's trial and conviction. He argued like
this: "If she has such suspicions, they have been
planted by some other person. Who could that be ?
and how had they arisen ?" These questions an-
noyed Mordaunt. Again and again he asked him-
self, "Am I suspected of Melville's imprisonment "
Without answering the question, he said to himself-

h


278      GFQRGB M]3LILLE.
" Let it be so. If the suspicions are strong, I can
never marry Bell Mortimer; but I can show her and
her father that it had been best not to cross James
Jordaunt's path."
While Mordaunt was conversing with Mr. Mor-
timer, he was silently laying a plan to ruin him.
ie determined to corrupt him in his official position,
as 4 member of the United States Congress, and
tLen, without his own agency being seen or known,
to expose and degrade him before the nation.
And what was passing in the mind of Mr. Mor-.
tiner, as, gazing upon the polite and smooth-
tongued villain, he forced himself to exercise the
duty of a host? The following was Mr. Mortimer's
thought:.
"Young man, you would not rest so smilingly, if
awaretof the axe which justice holds over your head."
Mordaunt, after explaining to Mr. Mortimer that
Bell, and not he, had aroused him from sleep, arose.to
return to his hotel, declining an invitation to remain
for breakfast.
"I will bid you good bye, Mr. Mortimer, until
after the morning meal; then, I will return and
transact some business with you, which is the reason
of my visit to Aurora."
Mr. Mortimer bade him good mornings saying
that he should hold himself disengaged on his
account. As Mordaunt left the house, Mr. Mortimer
strted for a walk over his grounds which were.
etensve. He had proceeded but a few rods, when
he was accosted by a plainly dressed, but intelligent-
o    ;kg-man, who ha) entered the premises for the'
purpose of meeting him.

2

Do I address honorable B. F. Mortimer ?" said
the man, politely touching his hat.
"That sir, is my name-can I be of service to
you ?"
am the bearer of this note, which has your
address; I will request you to read it," said the man,
at the same time handing Mr. Mortimer an unsealed
letter.
Mr. Mortimer opened it and read as follows:
OFFICER JEIF OF POLICE,
NEW YORK, --18, ~-.
""Hon.B. F. Mortiuner,
"The bearer (Mr. Patrick E. Doyl) has a warrant for the arrest
of James Mordaunt; he has my orders to advise with you in regard
to the arrest. I need say no more.e
"Your obedient servant,
"-'M~
"Mr. Doy1, please walk into the house; I am
happy, sir, to see that even so -early a riser as the
dinguished New York lawyer, does not find you
unprepared for him, in case of emergency."
This quick appreciation of his faithfulness, at once
inspired Mr. iDoyl, who was no less than a deputy
sheriff from New York City, with high regardfor
Mr. Mortimer. He saw with the quick perception
of one skilled in a knowledge of men, that he was
in the presence of a practical, far-seeing, bold and
honest man. Andsuc     was Mr. Mortimer, whom
James Mordaint had now set out to ruin. Was he
to succeed-?
'Mr  Doyl, be seated; the matter in hand re-
quires a little consideration," said Mr.rMortiPmer, as

h'
t     n{
tl
1          
{r


280        GORGE MELVILLE.
they entered his library. "When .did .you leave
iNew York ?"
"I left the evening of the 6th," was the reply.
Why, that is four days since," said Mr. Mforti-
mer, evincing  surprise at Mr. Doyl's answer.
Yes, sir ! four days since ; the fox I have been
tacking has been to the city of U---. He there
slowed that he can assume as many phases of person
as suits him. He stopped at B- '5 hotel; I set a
night and day watch upon him. At nine o'clock on
the 7th, he left his room, as hale and, hearty-looking
a priest of sixty years' experience, as ever fought
against the Pope. This time I was a butcher. He
left the house, and entering a livery stable, ordered
a horse. and buggy, saying he wished to visit the
Lunatic Asylum. It wouldn't do 'for a butcher to gi
to the Lunatic Asylum.-he ought to be killing bee,
So I just changed into a fine-looking farmer, ordered
another horse and buggy, and, with my wife along,
was the most curious visitor the asylum had seen for
a month.   When I asked the doctor to show me
around, I offered to pay, and took out of my pocket
a hand heaped full of gold. This little dust threw
dust into the doctor's eyes, and he became as polite,
and attentive to me and Molly as a politician."
"But, Mr. Doyl, how did you get a wife ?" asked
Mr. Mortimer.
"Manufactured her to order out of Jimmy Dady.
He can make a good-looking wife in fifteen minutes.
He's rather bashful, true--keeps his veil down when
anybody's in sight. But, for a foot and ankle, and a
pretty hand, he can't be excelled. My wife, that
morning, had, a sympathizing soul.  Oh, dear, how

4

GEORGE MELVILLE.               281
she did take on ! It almost makes a fool of me to
think of it-"
"How so ?" asked Mr. Mortimer, now fery much
amused, as well as interested in Doy's visit to the
Asylum.
"Why, as we were walking through some of
the wards, we came to the room which Sarah E.
Graham occupied. You remember that unfortunate
girl."
"Perfectly well, sir" replied Mr. Mortimer.
"Who should be in the room with her," continued
Doyl, "but the priest. He was trying the tears of
sympathy on the poor girl, at a great rate. My wife
immediately went up to the priest, and, in a splendid
woman's voice, sobbing under her veil, asked him if
he wouldn't have prayers for the poor girl. If the
rascal didn't actually oblige her ! - He commenced a
prayer which would have passed muster -anywhere.
But my wife did take on so -she put in amens at a
great rate. When this farce was through with, and
while the doctor was telling the priest what a sooth-
ing effect prayer seemed to have on Sarah, I ap-
proached the poor maniac, and, taking her by the
hand, spoke kindly. Then bending down, I whis-
pered in her ear the words ' James Mordaunt.' I
had kept rpy eye fixed upon Sarah's, to note the
result."
"And what was it?" said Mr. Mortimer, almost
stopping his breath to catch Doyl's next words.
"Just what I expected, from the extraordinary
effort Mordaunt had taken to visit her in a disguise,"
replied Doy1.
" how did she act ?" asked Mr. Mortimei.


2EOR OE MXELVILLE .

"She looked at me an instant, with a steady but
doubtful gaze. Then raising her hand, with one
finger extended, she pointed at the priest, and
spoke:
"'No, sir ! you are not James Mordaunt. There is
James Mordaunt. He has grown old. Where am
I?   ;What is the matter with met'
"Hearing these sentences, the doctor, who had
accompanied us, immediately ordered the room to be
cleared, himself remaining with Sarah."
"And did you watch the effect of her words on
Mordaunt ?" asked Mr. Mortimer.
"I turned to him the instant she began to point at
him.. He started,but only for a single instant. The
next, he wore the same expression of countenance,
looking upon Sarah with a sad and sympathizing
gaze. He is the most skillful actor I ever tracked.
He may be able to get around me; but if he beats.
Jimmy Dady, I'll give up tracking scoundrels. Last
night, after we arrived at the hotel, Jimmy actually
begged a two-shilling bit from him, in the character
of an old woman. This morning, when he got up
for a walk, he got a sixpence from him for blacking
his boots, which the porter blacked."
" Mr. Doyl, you will get your, promotion if this
niatter shall result in obtaining James Mordaunt's
conviction," said Mr. Mortimer.
" According to my orders, I am to take your ad-
vice inregard to the arrest. I report myself to you,
therefore, Mr. Mortimer, and am ready'to act accord-
ing to your directions."
" That means, Mr. Doyl, do I think it time to
make the arrest? The chief of police, in your city,

promised not to arrest Mordaunt until he had my
advice, unless it became an imperative duty. My
orders are as follows: Send Dady to Auburn. Or-
der him to telegraph Chief M--1 to be in Utica on
the 12th. Mordaunt will be here to-day. Follow him
here. You can enter the house by the side-door.
This will enable you not to lose sight of him. He
will, doubtless, return to New York to-morrow. If
he should do so, arrest him at Utica. If he should
not take to-morrow's train for the East, arrest him in
Auburn.. I shall accompany you to Utica."
At about nine o'clock, Mordaunt returned to Mr.
Mortimr's residence. He could detect no change in
the manner of his reception. Allwas the cordiality
of true hospitality. . Mordaunt gradually turned the
conversation upon Bell. His object was merely to
test Mr. Mortimer's esteem and friendship. Had it
not been that the mind he now played with was
equal to his own, this feint would have unmasked
Mr. Mortimer's real sentiments. But, even on this
subject, Mordaunt could detect no change in the
regard shown him. If there was any perceptible
difference, it consisted in the exhibition of a warmer
esteem for him, and a firmer determination tp bring
about the marriage. The world will call this dis-
simulation. So we name it. Mr. Mortimer knew
the man he dealt with, and resolved to meet him at
his own game.    Mordaunt had calculated badly
when he informed Mr. Mortimer that the object of
his visit at Aurora was connected solely with matters
of business. The; business was important, but it
could have been accomplished without the trouble
of a trip to Aurora.

,z
"       o
r'ni'
-  i
'   'r
, ,
i 1
7M1
'
r                   f
'                   t
..    
U
,_            ,._.  ,.k

f
t
t
.
z
i

282

283

-GEORGE MELVILLE.

45

,

"


oEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE.

"I am tired of city life, Mr. Mortimer," said Mor-
daunt, as he was about taking his departure. "This
trip to Aurora has been full of pleasure. Ere long,
I shall adopt your plan for a home."
"Capital! capital, Mr. Mordaunt! Come to Au-
rora. Nothing equal to it in the Empire State," said
Mr. Mortimer.
"Is there land enough for new-comers ?" asked
Mordaunt.
"Plenty, sir," replied Mr. Mortimer. "I may
have an opportunity, as well as a strong desire, to
select a habitation for you yet."
"I can rely on your advice with perfect safety,
sir," replied Mordaunt, completely deceived in his
estimate of Mr. Mortimer's real sentiments towards
him.
"'You can, sir ! you can ! I should not forget my
own interest in making the selection. My daughter's
happiness would be at stake, as well as your com-
fort. Depend upon it, I shall yet have a hand in
arranging' your home. Bell will soon do as I wish.
We already agree better than heretofore."
For an instant, Mordaunt suspected the truth, as
this last remark fell from Mr. Mortimer. He re-
called Bell's threat, and asked himself whether there
might not be a double meaning attached to the
words. ' The next remark, however, dissipated his
suspicion.
"1Bell scarcely ever alludes to George Melville in
my presence. She always has a kind word for me
when I speak of you," continued Mr. Mortimer.
Mordaunt was now satisfied that Mr. Mortimer
was only blind to Bell's real intentions; that Bell

did not make him a partner in her thoughts, and
that he himself was farther than ever from obtaining
the hand of Bell Mortimer.. Again he resolved to
humble Bell Mortimer by filching her father's good
name.

I

,1

285

284


8aGE4itGE M EL VILLE.

1 _

XI.
An Alumnus of Hamilton College, nolens voles, becomes a Skillful
Mechanic.
"JonssoN, how about the bu let machine? does it
work this morning ?"
"No, sir; one of the dies has given out. Melville
" is making a new one.",
"nret it in .order by morning. We shall have a
nmber of gentlemen in to-morrow to see it operate."
"Thisconversation occurred between the contrac-
for of the machine-shop in the Auburn State
trison,he assistant-foreman of the
The contractor passed along, giving directions to
several of the convicts in regard to their work. It was
evident to the beholder, that the contractor was a
popular man among the convicts, for he invariably
received a smile from each one addressed.
"Melville, how long will you be finishing that
die ?"
"I can't say, sir; not a great while," replied
Melville.
The contractor beckoned to Johnson, who ap-
proached.
"-Mr. Jdohson, can you give that die to another
hand   " asked the contractor,.

286

GEO1RGE MELVILLE.              287
" Certainly, sir ; but it requires a .skillful work-
man."
"Have you time to finish it yourself?"
Johnson thought a moment, scratched his -hel
with one hand, while in the other he held a large bpr
of iron.
"I can, if some one will look to Barker for me," at
length Johnson replied.
" He's the new hand at the turning-lathe, I be-
lieve," said the contractor.
"Yes, sir," replied Johnson.
" I will supply your place there, Johnson, if you
will finish the die,' continued the contractor.
" Very well, sir," replied Johnson.
"Melville," continued the contractor, "I want
you to draw a draft for a new steam-engine. I
have an order, directing me to make the most
powerful engine I can for a particular space. There
is only a certain amouiit of room to be occupied,
boiler, engine, and all. I have made a draught,
but am satisfied it is not right. You'll find
mine on the desk. There is. an engine there now
in operation, and this is designed. to supply its
place."
Melville laid down his tools, which were imme-
diately resumed by Johnson.  Going to a kid, he
washed hishands and set about drawing the plan. The
problem would be of little difficulty in a case where
the engine required was one of small power. But in
this case, an awkward shape to the boiler, the x
est possible power,, consistent with safety, ;a eodn+
venience for the firemen in feeding and  eping the
engine in order, were the difficulties to be overcome.

'I

I
I


288    GEORGE MELVILLE.

289

The machinery dependent upon this engine for power
was connected with one of the largest factories in the
State of New York. Two engines had been made
for the purpose, and both failed in reaching the
required power. It became a question with the
company whether they should be obliged to mar the
beauty and symmetry of the plan upon which their
factory had- been built by tearing away the outside
wall and extending the engine-room, or solving the
problem affirmatively, whether an engine, adequate
to their wants, could be constructed, which their
engine-room, as it was, would contain. The contrac
tor had received a conditional order. The company
would not bind themselves to take the engine unless
it answered their purpose. The power necessary to
run the machinery, of course, was among the quali-
ties required.
The contractor, having set Melville at work upon
the problem, was suddenly called away from Auburn.
He did not return under several days. Melville
made out three plans, each upon different bases,
either one of which, on paper, answered the problem
satisfactorily.  One of the plans, however, was so
clearly the best, that he destroyed the others. He
gained by the reserved plan about a quarter more
power than would ever be needed. This multiplied
the chances of safety by as much as it lessened the
expansive force of steam required in the boiler to
the square inch.
When the contractor returned, the first matter
which occupied his attention was this plan. Melville
was busily engaged finishing an intricate piece of
work, when the contractor entered the shop.

GEORGE MELVILLE.

" Melville," said he, "did you succeed with that
problem I gave you the other day 2"
a I think so, sir," replied Melville.
"Let me     see your work," continued the con-
tractor.
Melville went to the keeper's * desk, and asked
him for his plan.
The contractor examined it, attentively for some
time. He then asked several questions, all of which
were answered satisfactorily by Melville.
"Very well, sir; I believe you've hit it," said the
contractor. "'You gain a quarter more power than
necessary. My plan gains but one-sixteenth, except
by increasing the pressure. It is something of a
trick to build that engine, Melville.
"I know that, sir; but I can do it."
" You shall have the privilege of trying it, then,
Melville.   You shall boss the job throughout. I'll
write to-day, accepting the conditions of the order.
Go and ask Johnson to come here, if he is not too
busy."
"Johnson," said the contractor, addressing the
assistant-foreman, "I wish Melville to superintend
the construction of that engine. Give him all the
assistance he shall require, and let me have the
engine in running order as soon as possible."
." Yes, sir," said the foreman.
* We should here inform the reader, that every workshop in
the Auburn State Prison has one, two, or three keepers,, according to
its extent, who are responsible to the agent or principal keeper for
the good conduct of the- convicts. They are in the employ of the
State. Through them all discipline is administered. The contractors
have no power whatever to rule the men, except through the keepers.
13

".'*


290     GEOEGE MELVILLE.

291

XLII.
A Ray of Hope.'
THE day subsequent to the events detailed in the
last chapter was Tuesday. A more lovely morning
could scarcely have been planned, except by the
Great Mechanic. It was about nine o'clock. George
Melville had commenced his preparations for con-
structing one of the largest steam-engines, as well as
one most difficult to build, which had ever been
manufactured in the prison. The contractor had
determined to leave Melville entirely'to his own judg-
ment, knowing him so well, that in any matters about
which he was uncertain, he would obtain all the infor-
iation necessary to complete success. During the
two years, Melville had been in the prison, he had
evinced a most extraordinary aptitude for mechanics.
He was now a skillful workman in the machine shop,
and had shown himself to be a master of the laws
which govern the construction of machinery.  He
was considered the greatest genius in a shop of over
one hundred workmen. There were many who ex-
celled him in executing a piece of work, but he stood
alone, and far in advance, as an originator and
inventor. As he was about to consult Johnson the
assistant foreman of the shop, in regard to what men

he had better place upon the new engine, he was
sent for to come to the keeper's desk.
"Melville," said the keeper, "you are wanted
in the clerk's office. Go up and see what it is
for."
Melville immediately obeyed the order. When
he got to the "keeper's-hall," he was met by the
Captain of the Wards.
"Melville," said the captain, "follow me."
The captain led him through the south door of the
keeper's hall into the same apartment where first he
had changed his citizen's dress for the uniform of the
prison. Taking an ordinary suit of black clothes, he
ordered Melville to put them on. Melville looked
up in astonishment.
"Put them on, Melville," repeated the captain.
"Am I pardoned ?" asked Melville.
"I shouldn't wonder," said the captain.  " You'll
learn all about it in the clerk's office."
Melville was soon arrayed once more in the garb
of a citizen. The clothes were not equal to the suit
he had brought to the prison; but he did not stop to
criticise them.  Following the captain, he soon
entered the clerk's office. The first to greet him
there was Hon. B. F. Mortimer.
"George," said Mr. Mortimer, as a tear gathered
in his eye, " you have been here long enough."
Melville was unable to speak. He gazed upon Mr.
Mortimer with a look of intense anguish, holding his
hand as if in a vice. Then looking from Mr. Morti-
mer, his eye rested upon Frederick Mortimer, and
by his side stood Melville's father. Dropping Mr.
Mortimer's hand, he threw himself into his father's

GEORGE MELVILLE.


292    GEORGE MELVILLE .

aims and wept upon his bosom. The strong man
wept. Then seating himself in a chair, he bowed
his head upon his breast. Even tears had not brought
relief to the wounded soul. George Melville needed
no explanations to unravel the mystery of this pro-
ceeding. He read that he was pardoned. He also
read far, far into the future. Forever before his eye,
in clear and ineffaceable characters, arose the black
stain upon his forehead-
k# YOU HAVE BEEN TwO 'YEARs A CONVICT."
Not an eye in that room was dry-not a heart
there but fully appreciated the thoughts which had
unmanned the hitherto proud and lofty spirit.
" He has set anexample of obedience and industry
which will be remembered in the prison for years,"
said the clerk.
Melville arose. He endeavored to look his friends
in the eye. The effort was too much for him. Once
more he sought his father's eye, and there the respon-
sive love which met his gaze, subdued somewhat the
wild current which oppressed him.
"George," said his father, " bid these gentlemen
good bye. They are all your warm friends. The
carriage waits to convey you to your mother and
sister."
Mr. Mortimer, taking Melville's hand, bent his
head and whispered in his ear-
" George, Bell is waiting for you."
The pressure which Mr. Mortimer received from
Melville, and the look of subdued earnestness almost
unmanned him.

Many-years after this event, Mr. Mortimer declared
that-the most unhappy moment in his existence, he
had endured when in vain he tried to heal the noble
spirit so deeply wounded by the uncertain necessity
of human justice.  But George Melville saw that
his friends were beginning to suffer equally with
himself. Aroused by a sense of duty to them, he
approached the-officers of the prison present, and
gave to each a word of kind remembrance. As he
grasped the hand of the clerk, his eye kindled with
a brighter lustre.
"But for you, my friend," said Melville, "Ishould
have been condemned to a -life of misery indeed for
the past two years. To you, I am indebted for all I
have acquired in the noble employments of the
mechanic."
This remark was literally true. It will be remem-
bered, that Melville, on entering the prison, had been
assigned a place in the hospital. Such a disposition
it is difficult for a convict to change.. At Melville's
request, the clerk had retained him, contrary to
orders, in the machine shop, thereby making himself
liable to a reprimand.
But we must not detain Melville from the friends.
who are anxiously awaiting his arrival at the.hotel.
The ponderous gate of the main entrance to the prison
stands open. George Melville,leaning upon the arm
of Frederick Mortimer, walks forth once more a free
man, restored to his full citizenship by virtue of the
gubernatorial authority exercised at the will of a
sovereign people. The Sovereigns of the American
Republic, who know how to mete out swift justice
when it is due, are also quick to allay and avert the

GEORGE 'MEL1 v"ILLE.          293


GEO]GE MELVILLE.    295

consequences of an unjust doom. Let the record of
pardons in New York State alone attest the truth of
this assertion. No country on earth can show such a
clear record of pardons, granted upon good cause
shown, as can the United States of America. If,
occasionally, a rascal is restored to citizenship through
unmerited sympathy, avarice, or falsehood, no mat-
ter; the American people, notwithstanding, will be
united in the sentiment, let the pardoning power
remain, a monument of American mercy in pursuit
of justice.
A carriage was in waiting. George did not seem
disposed to enter it. With his usually quick percep-
tion, Mr. Mortimer divined Melville's wish. Ad-
dressing George, he said:
"Would you not prefer a walk with Frederick?
Your father' and I will go in advance, and prepare
the way for you."
"Thank you, Mr. Mortimer. I have no objections
to your suggestionn" replied George.
This plan *as adopted.
During the walk, Frederick Mortimer gave George
a history of the pardon; how it had been obtained,
and the new testimony which had gradually come to*
light. The subject was sufficiently rich in material
for many such walks; therefore, long before Fre-
derick shad detailed all that had been done to insure
success, they arrived at the hotel.
"You have a room for me, Fred ?" said George.
" Certainly; and an entire wardrobe. While ar-
ranging it for you I was sorely tempted to palm mine
off on you, and appropriate yours for myself,' replied
Frederick.

"In that case, I should not have  allowed you a
choice between my wardrobes," replied George.
"How so ?" asked Fred.
"The appropriation of what did not belong to you,
would have given you a clear title to an interest in the
wardrobe I have used during the past two years,"
said George, his face wearing a faint smile, the first
since he had learned of his pardon.
"Good! Capital! George, I have a hope for you
yet. One or two sallies like that will bring back
George Melville I used to know. You dare not wear
that solemn face when you meet Bell. She shall
consign you to a hermitage, if you do ; at all events,
it shall not be wasted on her."
But Frederick soon saw that the iron had entered
Melville's soul too deeply to be withdrawn suddenly..
George essayed another smile, but its glimmering
was short-lived, vanishing into the shade of intense
thought, which Frederick did not again venture t,
interrupt until they had reached the room appropri-
ated for Melville's use. Here Frederick succeeded
better in his attempts to rally his friend's spirits.
When George had again assumed the outward sem-
blance of the gentleman, and began to appreciate
better the value of the service performed in his
behalf, by such devoted friends, a change of feel-
ing was soon apparent to Frederick,. who quickly
read the real motive which produced it. He had
found the key which assisted him.in unlocking the
source of Melville's unhappiness, thereby admitting
light upon the dark shadows of.his heart.
"George," said Frederick.
" What, Frederick ?" replied Melville.

'I

294         GEORGE M +'L V ILLE.,


296      EORGE MELIL.           GEORGE MELVILL.

"Do you know, I would not blot out the events of
the past three years, even to bring back your old
smiles ?"
"Why not ?" said Melville- "looking, up with sur-
prise.
" Simply because I have something in here," said
Frederick, striking his hand upon his breast, "which
tells me that without the opportunity, you never
would have learned to appreciate what true friendship
can suffer."
"You have suffered, Frederick-all of your family
have suffered, and I"
"Can now repay your friends," interrupted Fre-
derick, "by acting out George Melville as he used
to be,'whether you feel like it or not."
"That is true, my friend, but "--.
"No&amp; buts can be allowed, Mr., Melville," said
Frederick, again interrupting, "for three good and
;suflicient reasons. Firstly, I have no time to hear
them; secondly, I do not wish to hear them; and
thirdly, and finally, and conclusively, and emphati-
cally, Iwon't hear them. You can take your choice.
Go bacl to prison upon a charge of, ingratitude,.or
arouse yourself to an appreciation of plain common
sense. I should have thought your barbers night
have taken a little more hair from your head. Never
mind, there is some comfort in the reflection, that
this world is built on the self-sustaining and self-
renovating principle."
"It is short !" said Melville, -looking in the
glass.
"'What is short ?" said Frederick, as if he did not
understand what Melville referred to..

"Why, my hair," replied Melville.
"Of course it's short. Same length of your grati-
tude."
"Come, come, Fred; you have said enough on
that tack. I shall not give you cause to complain
any longer," said Melville, smiling now in real ear-
nest.
"No! won't you though? Let me see 1" And
Frederick, grasping Melville by the shoulders, and
holding him at arm's length, examined his new ap.
parel from head to foot, with all the earnestness and
importance of a brigade inspector on duty.
"Well, sir, will it do ?" said Mellville, amused at
the inspection.
"Yes, sir, better than if you had been measured.
Now we will make an attack upon the drawing-
room." ' And, without giving Melville an opportu-
nity for thought, Frederick, taking his arm, opened
the door, passed across a spacious hall, and entered a
room at his right, just at'the head of a short flight of
stairs,'on the second floor of the hotel.
Melville's mother, sister, and cousin, Florence Mel-
wood, Mrs. Mortimer, Bell Mortimer, Mrs. Edge-
monte, Clara Griswold and Bess,-formed the female
portion of the company within. The gentlemen con-
sisted of Mr. Melville, Mr. Mortimer, Mr. Edge-
monte, Mr. Griswold, Chief M.--1, Thomas Gris-
wold, and WilliamHastings.
"I must get out of this, Mr. Mortimer," said Chief
M     1, a moment before Frederick Mortimer opened
the door.
"My orders, sir, are strict," replied Mr. Mortimer.
"The d6or cannot be opened for egress."
13*

,GEORGFE MELVILLT.      :297


298    GEORGE MELVILLE.

' I shall appeal to the ladies, then," said the chief.
"And I, sir, have thirty days in which to answer
the appeal," said Mr. Mortimer.
"The ladies are not in the capacity of a court of
dernier resort, Mr. Mortimer. I appeal to them as the
popular sovereigns of this company," said the chief.
" The appeal, then, will not be allowed," said Mrs.
Edgemonte.
"You perceive, my-good friend, I have the right
on any side, for judgment has come in advance of a
hearing. The case is so clear that argument is super-
fluous," said Mr. Mortimer.
At this instant the door opened, and George Mel-
ville, accompanied by Frederick Mortimer, entered
the room. His face had not lost the smile which
Frederick Mortimer so skillfully excited. It produced
a corresponding reflection from every one present.
Such a reflex, acting upon the sentiment with which
Frederick Mortimer had inspired him, brought back
the real George Melville. It would have been diffi-
cult to analyze the happiness in that room, or insti-
tute a just comparison as to its degree of intensity.
There was the mother's joy; the father's wounded
pride restored, to mingle again with _his love ; the
sister's petitions at the throne of heaven answered ;
the rewarded sympathy of active, energetic friend-
ship ; the modest consciousness of success in unravel-
ling the villain's coil; the welcome trust of friend-
ship, basking in the smile of gratitude; the joyous
confidence of ripened affection-and now,. these
phases of the soul were sharpened to their keenest
edge. The work had been laid out upon a ^mind
tempered by the promptings of refinement and ed&amp;EZ

cation. Sympathy, love, and esteem had joined to
heal the wounded spirit of a -son, brother, friend, and
lover-a spirit taught by unjust experience the price-
less value. of a clear title to the rights and privileges
of an
"'AME'OA  CITIZEN."

YI

GEO;-R GE MELVILLE.


0              RORGE MELVI11E..

XLITTL.
Woman's Rights-The State Lunatic Asylum at Utica, Oneida
County, N. Y.
MOTHER," said Frederick Mortimer, as the party,
described at the conclusion of the last chapter, were
leaving the dining-room of the hotel, "you are to
heae   house full of ladies."
"What is to become of the gentlemen ?" said Mrs.'
Mortimer.
"Father has intimated his wish that we shall ac-
company Chief M-1----l to New York. He desires
our presence in relation to some matters which con-
cernieorge," said Frederick.
henwill you c0go ?" said Mrs. Mortimer.
"We are to take the afternoon train at two o'clock
and forty4ve minutes," replied Frederick.
"And what is to become of the ladies, when the
pilots desert them?" said Mrs. Mortimer.
"Father has given orders for carriages to convey
Aurora. They are to start before the train
goes," replied Frederick.
"O-~d I oman will have her rights for once,"
;asaMrs.Edgemonte, who had listened to theon-
versation    v
"Ad4eserves to have them 'at all  times, said

Mr. Mortimer. "But what has raised this cry about
woman's rights ?"
"Having discovered the existence of a plot, de-
signed to make deserters out of one half of this party,
the ladies have determined to see what merit there is
in woman's rights," said Mrs. Edgemonte.
" Oh ! Fred has been breaking the sad news about
Chief M-l's requirements," said Mr. Mortimer.
"Sad news, indeed, Mr. Mortimer'! ' I consider it
quite cheerful. The value of it depends, however,
upon the length of time. the requirements of Mr.
M     1 shall allow us ladies the privilege of having
our own way," said Mrs. Edgemonte.
- " All that philosophy will do for ladies of expe-
rience. The gentlemen are better appreciated by
the young ladies," said Mr. Mortimer
" Who have neither mended stockings, replaced
lost buttons, nor gathered up the tares of married ex-
istence," said Mrs. Edgemonte.
"We shall not be entirely without a pilot," said
Bell. "Mr. George Melville, I am informed, has an
intention of making Aurora a visit this afternoon."
" Of course," saidMr. Mortimer.  "That attests
the truth of my remark."
The ladies had no time to waste, as the hour for
the departure of the"' train was close at hand. The
carriages had been waiting their movements for
nearly ,an hour. The? leavE-takings, consequently,
were short, and to the purpose. Gegrge Melville'
and William Hastings were the only gentleiren who
joined.theAurora patty  Messrs. M   ,IMortimer,
Edgemonte, Griswold, and Frederick Mortimer took
the, afternoon train for the East. We leave bothopar:

4.

GEORGE _ME-LVILLE.   3(1

i

s
'                               -,
-"_ ,

ww


802   o~t'  GB  ELYILLE.                                   O1Gl    vta.30

tes to pursue their journeys. In the intrve, will
the reader please return with us to the village of
Aurora.
"Good bye, my dear sir," said Mordaunt, as he
arose to take his leave of Mr. Mortimer.
I shall visit New York in a few days, Mr. Mor-
daunt," said Mr. Mortimer, taking Mordaunt's hand.
" We can then arrange this business to your satisfac-
tion.
"What day will you be there ?" asked Mordaunt.
"The twelfth or thirteenth," replied Mr. Mortimer.
Mordaunt had scarcely reached the street gate ere
Mr. Mortimer: joined Doyl, who, as had been ar-
ranged, was in -a side room, awaiting Mordaunt's
departure.
"Has Dady gone to Auburn with the dispatch for
the telegraph ?"
"Yes, sir, four hours since," replied Doyl.
"Bess,-tell James to bring around the bays with
the light carriage," said Mr. Mortimer. "You brought
your valise, did you not, Mr. Doyl?"
"No, dir," said Doyl.
Get it," was the laconic request of Mr. Morti-
mgr:
Doyl, returning to the hotel, paid his bill and ob..
taied his valise. He waited there until Mordaunt
dro'  ff, and then rejoined Mr. Mortimer.
Tames are you ready ?" asked Mr. Mortimer-a
questioil whichJames had learned to iterpret as an'
irder to do the driving.
"Yis sir," replied James.
"Mr. Doyl, please take your seat. Now, James,

Auburn, by the Springport road. Drive very sloww"
said Mr. Mortimer.
"Yis, sir," again responded James.
At first the spirited bays seemed determined not to
take a slow pace; but under the skillful instructions
which James administered, they gradually compre-.
hended that speed was not at all required. Then, as
if ashamed of such company, they settled into a
modest trot. The ride to Auburn was so managed
that Mordaunt was kept in sight - at a long distance
in advance. Upon their arrival, a telegraph dispatch
awaited Mr. Mortimer from  Chief M    1, saying
that he would be at the city of U - on the twelft4.
"So far so good," said Mr. Mortimer. "I shall go
to the city of U  this afternoon. In one respect,
I have changed the programme, Mr. Doyl. Do not
make the arrest until you hear from me again."
"Very well, sirs" replied Doyl.
Mr. Mortimer, that-evening, took his tea at the
Hotel, in the city of Utica. The following morning
he called at the Lunatic Asylum, and inquired for
the principal physician.
"Good morning, Mr. Mortimer. This is an uex-
pected pleasure, indeed," said the doctor, as he recog-
nized his distinguished visitor.
"Good morning, doctor. I trust my presence will
not trespass upon your duties," replied Mr. Mortimer.
"It will not f'or the next hour, Mr: Mortimer,.un-
less I have an unexpected call," said the doctor.
"Doctor, you have a patient here in whom the peo-
ple became very much interested by reason of the:
publicity given; her case through the New York
press," said  Mr. Mortiier.

I

GEOEG  ; MELVXLLE.  803

:,            _                 -
-;,
"  '                              _     -
{{                   i 4 . {. ..

_ Ls' s
rIx,


304      GEOR GE MLVILLE. L

"You mean Sarah Graham ?" asked the doctor.
"Yes ; Sarah E. Graham. What is her condition
now doctor ?" said Mr. Mortimer.
"$By the hand of Providence she is restored.
Hers has been a sad ease. There are circumstances
connected with it of a terrible nature ; but she reso-
hitely refuses to disclose anything."
"Doctor, I must have an interview with her, and
would be very glad if you will be present. There
are some suspicions which fancy tells me she is able
to make certainties," said Mr. Mortimer.
Ihave resolutely forbidden all persons from visit-
ing her since the seventh instant. It will be neces-
sary that you. call again this afternoon, or, better,
to-morrow morning, if you can remain until then,"
said the doctor. "I am not certain, however, that
an interview with her would be best at present. You
shall be admitted if the thing is practicable,"
" To-morrow will be best," said Mr. Mortimer:
"The Chief of Police, from New York, will then be
in= the city, and. I should like that he be present at
the interview."
"Very well. If I admit you, there will be no ob-
jection to one more," said the doctor
After some further remarks, Mr. Mortimer bade
the doctor good morning.
Onthe following day, he called again at the Asy-
' u   ;this time, accompanied by Chief M-1. The
usual greetings of politeness being over, the doctor
ifrmted Mr. Mortimer that he would allow the in-
t~rvew; butat- the first caution he should give, it
to be immediately closed:.They were now in
S vitd by the doctor to follow him. After goingsome

distance into the building, which-s an immense, as
well as a magnificent structure, they were ushered into
a capacious room, furnished with taste. Within a
large rocking-chair sat Sarah E. Graham. As the
doctor entered, she arose, and, standing by the aid of
a crutch, extended to him a warm welcome.
"Miss Graham," said the doctor, "these are the
gentlemen I promised to introduce to you this morn-
ing. Mr. Mortimer, allow me to present you to Miss
Graham ; Mr. M    1, Miss Graham."
She received them with a smile of welcome; and in
a modest tone, asked that they should be seated.
"Miss Graham," said Mr. Mortimerg"I am very
desirous that you will give me liberty to open what
may prove to be a painful subject to you."
"I shall not shrink, sir, from suffering, when it is
necessary ; but you will doubtless be willing to state
the motives which prompt you, before entering upon
anything that you are aware will be painful to me,"
replied Sarah.
" Most assuredly. I am perfectly willing to make
the required statement. Mary Wilcox "
"Is it of her you would speak?" interrupted
Sarah.
"Yes. J. S. Taylor, Esq., received a note some
years since signed 'S. E. G.' That note is of such
a nature that I have desired to inquire whether,' S.
E. G.,' being your initials, was not your hand-vht-
ing in that note ? In other words, are not you 'he
author ofit ?" replied Mr. Mortimer.
"And for whom do you make this inquiry ?"asked
Sa1rah.a
"rIn  behalf of :Mry. Wilcox, and also for anther

I

GEOEGE i ELVILL.. .               805


/

#3O6

GEORGE    ELVILLEia.:

purpose, which I had, perhaps, best -not trouble you
with(' replied Mr. Mortimer.
What is the other purpose ?" pursued Sarah.
"It is not ;because there is secrecy in the matter,
that I did not inform you at once ; but from a desire
to spare your feeling," replied Mr. Mortimer.
"While I appreciate your kindness, sir, you must
allow me to question you as I may desire," replied
Sarah..
"Most assuredly-I will do so ; and I will endeavor
to instruct.you fully in regard to my motives," re-
plied Mr. Mortimer.
"Will you please state what that other purpose may
be ?" said Sarah.
"To do so, Miss Graham, that you may fully un-
derstand my motives in calling upon you, compels
me to ask that you will listen to a lengthy history,"
replied Mr. Mortimer.
"Pray, go on, sir," replied Sarah.
"Some time since," commenced Mr.. Mortimer,
"J.S.Taylor, Esq., instituted an action at law, in
order to obtain for a young female, residing in Brook-
lyn, N. Y., her rights as the wife of a man, living in
New York city, named James Mordaunt. Do you
know James Mordaunt $"
"Go on, sir," replied Sarah.
"One of the principal witnesses," continued Mr.
Mortimer, "by whom Mr. Taylor expected to esta-
blish(Mary's rights,was Rev. John Furnace. This
JohnFurnace:was also a resident of Brooklyn. ie
suddenly, and~undervery extraordinary circumstances,
disappeared the day before the action was com-
need and nothing-has;been heard of him since,

GE OR GE MELVILL'E.

'307

nor has any trace been found of his body. Suspicions
have pointed strongly towards a man known to be a
tool of this James Mordaunt, as the person who can
tell what became of Furnace. The fact that Mary
Wilcox's success depended upon this clergyman's
testimony, coupled with the intimate relations which
are known to exist between the suspected person and
James Mordaunt, have caused suspicion to rest upon
Mordaunt as an accomplice in the kidnapping or
murder of Furnace. It is known, also, that James
Mordaunt visited you here on the 7th instant, in the
disguise of a clergyman."
"But I do not see what should excite your interest
in this matter other than a high sense of justice," said
Sarah.
"This will appear more fully, Miss Graham," con-
tinued Mr. Mortimer.
"Please go on, sir," said Sarah.
"A young gentleman," continued Mr. Mortimer,
"has been convicted of the crime of forgery, and sent
to the State Prison. His friends, since his trial, have
reason to suspect that he is the victim of a plot, and
that James Mordaunt is the contriver of it."
"What is the young man's name ?" asked Sarah.
"George Melville," replied Mr. Mortime;
"Is there any known motive which should prompt
this Mordaunt to commit an innocent person to
prison?" asked Sarah.
"There is, Miss Graham," replied Mr. Mortimer.
" Mordaunt sought the hand of a young lady who Was
engaged to Melille.?'
And what is the lady's name ?" asked Sarah.
"MissM6,rtirmer,' was the reply.

I


O80g       GEORGE MELVILLE.
"Then . address the father of the lady in question ?"
said Sarah.
"You do, Miss Graham," replied Mr. Mortimer.
"It is enough. Gentlemen, listen," said Sarah,
raising herself in her chair, and looking each of her
visitors in the eye in quick succession. At this in-
stant, her gaze was full of ,such. earnest truthfulness,
that a feeling of solemnity gathered around the group.
" Doctor, how long have I been an inmate of this
asylum ?" said she.
"Nearly two years, Sarah," replied the doctor,
with a friendly smile.
So long I' ejaculated the unfortunate girl, clasping
her hands together, and raising her eyes to heaven.
"Great God! Two years more on earth, and
Thou not yet my friend! When wilt Thou hear and
answer the lost one's petition for mercy$'
Sarah," said the doctor, "Heaven is the abode
of justice as well as of mercy. If you have an act
of justice resting upon your lips, mercy will not enter
your soul until justice owns your spoken pledge."
"'then  why has Heaven sealed my tongue during
two long years? Answer me not! 'HE doeth all
things well.' I will now complete a work which
was interrupted by a terrible deed two years ago.
Send for a magistrate; not for me, but for the benefit
of Mary Wilcox, George Melville, and Miss Mor-
tiner," said Sarah.
This afternoon, Sarah; you had better take rest
now," said Mr. Mortimer.
Now! I cannot rest until my duty is accom-
plished," said Sarah.
"It should be done immediately. The relief'to

GEORGE M-ELVILLE.   309

her mind will be better than medicine," interposed
the doctor.
A carriage was instantly dispatched for the nearest
magistrate. The interval passed in general conver-
sation, during which Mr. Mortimer succeeded in
gaining Sarah's attention, thereby causing her, for
the time, to forget the unhappy wounds which neces-
sity had compelled him to open.
After the arrival of the magistrate, Sarah gave an
accurate and detailed account of her history since
she first knew James Mordaunt. She revealed all
she knew in regard to Mary Wilcox; described the
conversation she had overheard in the closet, which,
as the reader has already surmised, had reference to
the plot to ruin Melville.
"And now," continued Sarah, "the remainder of
my story affects solely myself. It is unnecessary to
reveal that which affects me personally."
" It may be unnecessary, so far as your individual
interests are concerned, Miss Graham; but you have
incurred an obligation to the public, to whom you
are indebted for your life," said the magistrate.
"Sarah, do not, if you value conscience, withhold one
fact which will militate. against this villain, James
Mordaunt."
"What he has done towards me is now of no con-
sequence. I 'cannot alter my fate by becoming his
accuser," replied Sarah.
"But you may prevent a second Sarah Graham;
or a second Mary Wilcox, or a second George Mel-
ville, from incurring a fate at James Mordaunt's
hands, equal to, or worse than, your own," said Mr.
Mortimer.

k


GEORGE MELVILLE.

" He can be imprisoned upon what you already
know," said Sarah."
"Not so! Miss Graham. It would be a very diffi.
cult matter to convict Mordaunt upon the testimony
which we have yet obtained," said Mr. Mortimer.
' Sarah sat some time in silence, her countenance
indicating a sore struggle between desire and duty.
"Not now," at length said she. "I can wait a
few weeks, and see what events will show."
"Do not procrastinate this revelation another hour,
Sarah," said the doctor. "You must see clearly that'
James Mordaunt is a villain of the blackest charac-
ter, and that justice demands at your hands all you
know against him."
"Let it beso, then," said Sarah, her countenance
showing that a firm resolution had been made. She
then detailed the terrible events connected with the.
house in Twenty-third street, New York, with which
the reader is acquainted.
"The last I remember," continued Sarah, "James
Mordaurit, as I revealed to him my knowledge of his
wicked plot against Melville, seized me with the
energy of madness, and hurled me with all his force
against the marble mantel. The next thing which
I remember, James Mordaunt was standing by my
bedside dressed in the garb of a clergyman."-
"It was Robert Shank, then, who first seized you,
while you were arranging your hair ?" said Mr. Mor-
timer.
"Shank was the name given him by Mordaunt, at
the office in Wall street," replied Sarah.
"1Would you be able, to recognize the man who
seized and gagged you ?" asked Mr. Mortimer.

s
.

310-

Ck
t
i1{t
1

"Yes," replied Sarah. "I have seen him on two
occasions."
The magistrate made out three depositions embody-
ing all the facts which Sarah had revealed; one relat-
ing to Mary Wilcox, one to Melville, one to herself.
The deposition relating to Melville was read to her
first. After suggesting one or two 'slight alterations,
she signed and made oath to it. The same was per-
formed in reference, to the deposition .relating to her-
self. The magistrate then commenced reading the
third, which related to Mary Wilcox. This, Sarah
interrupted.
"It is entirely unnecessary for me to sign that one,
sir."
"Why so ?" asked the magistrate.
"Whenever the suit instituted in Mary Wilcox's
behalf shall be tried, my affidavit will be there, if
required," replied Sarah.
"It will be necessary for some of these gentlemen
to be present, in order to verify these facts, and then
the question would arise, why did she refuse to sign
and make oath to it ?" said the magistrate.
"Tell them it was because she did not wish to
multiply depositions on the same subject," said Sarah.
"Do you mean to be understood, Miss Graham,
that you have already made an affidavit of the facts
in reference to Mary Wilcox ?" asked Mr. Mortimer,
"I do, sir. It was written out for me the same
day I wrote my note to Mr. Taylor. The lawyers
never knew the names of the parties, nor did they
know my name. I took the paper home and filled
in all the names myself. Then I went before a magis-
trate and made oath to it."

311

GEORGE.'MELV LLE.

.


312.        GEOR1GE MELVILLE.
"Where is the paper now, Sarah P" asked. Mr.
Mortimer.
"It is in the hands of the lawyers in New York
who drew it. Iinclosed it in an envelope, sealed it up,
and directed it to J. S. Taylor, Esquire, to be deliv-
ered to him only, in case they heard of my death, or
the cause of Mary Wilcox should be brought to' trial
and I not appear in court. Had the cause been
brought to trial, that affidavit would have been
handed to Mr. Taylor. Johnson, Hasbrook &amp; Miller,
is the name of the law firm. They gave me their
solemn pledge never to open the paper, but to obey
my instructions in every respect."
"Well, Sarah, you had better execute this also. It
can do no harm, and, may do good," said the magis-
trate.
"I prefer not to execute this paper at present.
Should the. other be destroyed, or lost, I ;will sign
and make oath to this," said Sarah.
"Very well, Sarah," said Mr. Mortimer. "Write
an order upon the firm, telling them to -deliver the
letter to Mr. Taylor immediately. I will hand it to
them."
This Sarah did willingly. When the business had*
been all finished, Sarah seemed to settle into a
melancholy state of feeling. It was evident ,to Mr.
Mortimer, that the revelations against Mordaunt, per-
taining to herself, had been made against her wish.
He filly comprehended the cause of her present
anxiety. It was clear that she still retained her
affection for the man who had ruined her. This state
of inind he determined to eradicate if possible.
Now, doctor," said Mr. Mortimer. "I want to

GEORGE MELVILLE.               313
ask a great favor of you. Miss Graham has been
under your roof nearly, or quite two years. It is
time she saw the beauties of a life in the coun-
,try.
"I will not interpose a single objection, if Sarah
falls in with your plan, Mr. Mortimer," said the doc-
tor.
"Very well! Miss Graham, my plan is, to write
immediately to my daughter, and have her make
youa visit here. She can remain until the doctor
thinks a journey will be good for you;' then, you go
to Aurora, to make my house your home for a few
months."
Sarah upon hearing these words, wiped awaya
tear, which came unbidden to her eye.
I must go home to my mother," said Sarah.
"Not until James Mordaunt is taken care 'of," said
Chief M    1. "If you leave here, it must not be
known where you go ; and furthermore, you mst go
only where you can be fully protected. I have made
up my mind that the Frenchman, who hired. the
horses in Fourth Avenue, New York, was no other
than Robert Shank, and the three hundred dollars
sent the livery man, came from James Mordaunt."
"What do you refer to, Mr. M=     l?" asked
Sarah.
"Have you never inquird how you came to this
Asylum, Miss Graham ?" asked the-chief.
"I can answer that question," interposed-the doc-
tor. "She has not. On the contrary, hitherto, she
has carefully abstained from speaking of her history.
I expect her mother next week."
Srah desired, to be informed how sue'had been

Y~             1


314      GBoIRGE iEEALvxLLE.
broug  to t  Asylum. The doctor, however, put a
t    o  e interview.  He promised Sarah that she
ho  ae a fll accountof the circumstances on
he al    gday
"    time, with Sarah's permission, I will
acopt      nitatio in her behalf. Send my friend
I1 here as soon as possible."
"Doctor is Miss Mortimer your friend ?" asked
SShe is   rah:; and has been intimately acquaint-
ed wh.my family for several years."
a make no objections then to al you do for
me; but can never repay any of this kindness."
a,   . have to-day more than repaid all 'it may be
k our power to do for you, Miss Graham," said Mr.
Mrtimer     The reason and truth of this you will
o   learn. We will now bid you goodbye. My
da t=e      , wil be here as soon as George Mel-
ifesparaoned out of prison."
day after you mean, Mr. Mortimer," said
the d6tor, laughing.
"ery likely," replied Mr. Mortiiner.
'    Morffmer aeompanied by his friend, Chief
M- then returned to B-   's hotel; where they
were clseted the remainder of the day

GEORGE MELVILL.31
XLIV
The Arrest-Interview with the Governor of the Empire state.
ABOUT noon of the day succeeding that which
saw the events recorded in our last chapter, Mr.
Mortimer and Chief M   1, stood in the U  rail
road ddpot, surrounded by a small coterie of friends.
No greater matter occupied their attention than the
shrill whistle of the locomotive . announcing the
approach of a western train.
" There is the train," said Mr. Mortimer.
" You had better return to the hotel," said Mr.
M-1.
" Very well," replied Mr. Mortimer. "L agree
with you."
In a few .moments the train had arrived. Chief
M     1 stood upon an elevated platform on theeat
side of the ddpot. He was accosted by a number
the' newly arrived passengers, mostly residents of
New York.    Among these was James Mordaunt.
Within ten feet of him, stood Doyl and Dady
"Good morning , Mr. MA    1," said Mordaut
"this is a surprise. When did youleave Ne r
"Onthe 11th, sir," replied Chief M' 5=A
the sane moment he caught Doyl's eye   - and.4
him private signal to make the arrest at


16GEORGE MELVILLE.

317(

GE-oRGE MELVILLE.

Doyl advanced within the circle and, taking Mor-
dauti by the arm, addressed him in an under tone.
"Sir! you are my prisoner."
"Prisoner ?" said Mordaunt, endeavoring to shake
off Doyl' grasp.
"Be quiet, Mr. Mordaunt. Take things as they
cone" said Doyl.
" By what authority do you make this arrest ?"
asked Mordaunt, very much excited.
iol handed to Mordaunt a warrant by which he
learned that he was charged with causing the death
of John Furnace, by procuring one Robert Shank to
commit the deed.
Mordaunt asked several questions of Doyl, but
obtaining answers so laconic and meaningless, he
soon relapsed into silence.  Mr. M-1 had left
the ddpoto as soon as he perceived that Doyl had
understood his signal.
" Where are you going with me ?" asked Mor-
daunt.
":Aboard the train," said Doyl.  " Would you
like a dinner ?"
Mordaunt gave no heed to Doy1's question, conse-
quently;:that official ordered him to take his place in
he car.
Ifyou behave yourself, you will not be troubled
ith the irons until night," said Doyl, as they took
theirseats.
Di E. M-.1-l know anything about this
aest?" asked Mordaunt.
I     'didn'tnotice whether he looked on or not,"
,J  Do eou act under his orders ?" asked Mordaunt.

"Whenever he has anything to do out of New
York county, he is very apt to employ my valuable
services," replied Doyl.
And is that the case in this matter?" said
Mordaunt.
You can see on the face of the warrant, who
give me the work," said Doyl. ".Shall I show it to
you ?"
"If you please, i  said Mordaunt, biting his lip,
and most bravely endeavoring to swallow an angry
reply.
At this instant, Mr. Mortiner entered the car ;
but, apparently without seeing Mordaunt, he imme-
diately left it and entered the one behind.
"By Jove! Chief, you had near got me into a
scrape," said Mr. Mortimer, as he opened the door
of the rear car. Doyl has Mordaunt in the forward
car instead of this."
"If he recognized you, you will be sent for; there-
fore, I don't see but that you're quite in the scrape,"
said Mr. M    1, laughing at Mr. Mortimer's per-
plexed countenance.
"What can't be cured, must be endured," replied
Mr. Mortimer.
" Of course," said Mr. M  1.
The noise of the train, which had now gained full
headway,'put an end to the conversation.
"Tickets !" cried the conductor.
"How do you do, Mr. Mortimer ?" said the con-
ductor, as he reached the seat occupied by that
gentleman.   I heard you were at the cty of
"I have passed a few days there with my friende

316


&amp;~GRGE MELMIEL V.L$19

'r,      i
' ;   ,
"(                       -   1
f

imer, uon visiting Mordaunt, found that
U, accomplished its object. Doyl resisted'
et  r Mortiager:made to converse with
arived at Albany,'Mr. Mortimer accom-
the chief, made an evening call   n
:i of New York  The h        not.the
os butorine                    duties
ele440,e
:ortard-rIwil}od pardon for
i tth     lationofi-:the;f atsdeod
rahain t'k.,          fl   l

'es o th

.      -i    ofNewYork. Mr. lM-a, allow me
to { ; ,d to you mry friend,'M. Kellogg."
Mr.Mortimer a.'gentlemaan in the forward car'
,1z    da4deto   and you this card   He desires
th  1o ill coie to him," said the conductor.
slbraeak        nyeck if I go now," said Mr.
'I Mr.Kellogg will bear- a note to the person
o ocenpies the same seat with the gentleman who
thatcard,Ithink I can remove your diffiulty,
i  .Mortimner," said Mr. M-l.'
.will doo, soon," said the conductor.,
Thechief penned the following on a slip of paper,
'singthe crown of his hat as a table:
Al'ow no communication whatever with your prisoner

"There Governor peas     end
graph ofic, andI shall not isobea
*adthej chef..
Thegvernor waabout to i
v~ ylo p e   w h    9h~t"  -{ i e f ."i  -   in te rru  la$ij

the

r t,,, t} f' ..f ?.S ,.

him. The other tw   l have   acertained, art  .
living," sai44r Mortimer.
"These are unnecessary in this case  r.  orti-
mer+" replied the governor. "Not because of th
high position of the applicant f orGeo geMelille's
pardon, but from the simple fetthat 'have peron-
ally known this Melville and his family; and I have
not been able to see any adequate necessitysur-
rounding George, to warrant so.much risk in obtain-
ing six hundred ad twenty-five dollar. I shall gant
this pardon with real satisfaction."
"Please send itt my hotel, Governor. I am
disposed to enjoy the effect of your satisfaction  t
proves catching," replied Mr. Mortimer
"The pardon shall be sent early in the morning"
responded the governor.
"Mr. Mortimer, I must get a dispatch to   w
York to-night,"said Chief M-l, taking    his
watch,
"It can be sent to the office by a messenger" d
the governor. "I desire the company ofyo   th
for the evening. There is paper."
Chief M  -4, taking pen and paper, wrotel' o-t
lowing dispatch:
To J V. S.-OFICE OF CHIEF OFrPOLICE, NEW YORK.
- a_  ux-4S   tiseY  , 1 .a.:       ''

ii

s     e_ (                   I. L  L     .


320    GEORGE MELVILL-E.

GEORGE MELVILLE.    .21

There is nothing private about the dispatch. Don't
waste one of the people's envelopes on it."
"Very well," said the governor, pulling a bell-
rope.
A servant entered.
'LTake this dispatch to the telegraph office, and
have it forwarded to New York immediately," said
the governor.
" Yes, sir," replied the servant, instantly leaving
the room as soon as he had received the paper.
"Now, gentlemen," said the governor, " I wish to
introduce you to some ladies under my wife's charge.
We must make an evening of it."
It was a late hour before Mr. Mortimer and the
chief regained their hotel.
The following mornings at an early hour, a pardon,
-executed in due form, was handed to Mr. Mortimer by
a special messenger from the governor. A few mo-
ments afterwards a messenger from the telegraph
office handed a dispatch to Chief M 1. It read'
as follows:
NEW YoR, ,18-.
CIEFN  -, r--- HOUSE, ALBANY.
Endgarm tisfeorurga efhgt.
J. V. S.
"Shank is arrested," said the chief, as soon as he
had read the dispatch.
ortimer, taking up the dispatch, attempted
U. to read it.
"I shall have to obtain the key to that, Mr. M  1,
before'I can unlock it," said Mr. Mortimer.
"lIt is very simple, sir," replied the chief.
"Well, Doyl, how has your prisoner .enjoyed him-

H I

self," continued Mr. M  -, addressing that official,
who just then approached.
"He acts pretty soberly about the matter," replied
Doyl.
" Be ready to go to New York by the evening
boat," said Mr. M  1.
"I am ready at' a moment's notice," answered
Doyl.
"What is the key to your telegraph dispatch ?".
asked Mr. Mortimer.
"I have not got it with me," replied Mr. M  1,
laughing.
Mr. Mortimer. saw that his friend M-1 was
proof against even his attempts to learn to read his
secret writing. As a new order of things has been
instituted, and as old things have passed away, it
will do no injury to the cause of justice if we now
give the key to the public. Read the dispatches
backwards, commencing at the last letter, and omit-
ting each second letter.
That night James Mordaunt was carried a pri-
soner to New York. On the following .day he was
brought before the officer who issued the process
against him. An examination was waived, and he
was admitted to bail. He was then arrested upon a
second warrant, issued upon the affidavit of Sarah E.
Graham. )hen he fully comprehended the fact that
she was restored to reason, his countenance fell. Ruin
stared him in the face ; and ' 'the event proved.
Although he was admitted to bail on this charge.
also, and thereby enjoyed every advantage for con-
ducting his defence, still he was convicted, and sen-
tenced to five years' hard labor in the State prison
14*

F,  ;


i;
r}                     ,
t ;
a
s
.
6
'S
.
S+        '
i  -                '
f
"f
r
k
{;
' ,
,  . .
i i
'q
a' .
'r ,

I

GEORGE MELVILLE.

328

322         GEORGE ME LVILLE
The suit instituted for the establishment of Mary
Wilcox's rights, now became an easy matter. It was
prosecuted to a successful termination in her favor.
and her clainis upon his property were recognized by
the courts,
Two days after the judgment of the court had
been rendered, the vessel commanded by her uncle,
Captain Joseph Horton, entered New York harbor,
having been permitted by the health officer, upon
due examination of her manifest, to pass quarantine.
But was Mary Mordaunt the happy niece, the joyful
wife, the proud mother? She had gained. only the
first stepping-stone up the steep and rugged pathway
of peace. But she possessed a true heart, and a
heavenly guide to direct her in the way of duty.
The great struggle of a life was before her. She had
a husband, and her child owned a villain,lost to him-
self, his friends, and society, for a father. She shrank
not from this struggle; nor did she fail in meeting
wi  hrtndant sympathy.

A Mountain in Massachusetts-The Home of, an ex-Presides; of the
United States.
READER, you approach the conclusion of our story.
Bear with its length patiently ! The duty before us,'
though for truth's sake we must yet describe a few
sad pictures of life, will also present you with scenes
of happiness. This world is not always dark, nor
does misfortune always surround the poor in heart.
You stand upon an elevation of land, covered with
a rich forest growth. It is an hour and a half since,
upon the level country, you bade adieu to luxuriant
fields, groaning under the weight of ripening har-
vests. The progress up the steep ascent has been
slow and fatiguing. Physical- endurance almost
gives out. The rich, mossy bed, so delicately spread
upon the outcropping formation, is a genial and wel
come resting-place. The tall and stately pine, the
graceful elm and beech, and the broad-leafed maples
afford a certain protection against the summer's tn.
The mind has gradually been filled with wonder at
the sublimity of a mountain ascent. For months,
mansions of brick, dirty streets, jostling crowds, and
the, capacity of a counting-room have been pictured
upon the retina. The optic nerve has longed for


2GEORG a O MEL VILLE.

rest, calling loudly upon the members to allow the
pupil an opportunity for dilation in the forest shade.
And now the solemn darkness of the mountain has
reached and filled, the. soul. The brows, so long
contracted, rise with the opening lids. The chatter-
ing of the nimble squirrel reaches the ear. The
sight, so keen in -youth, in vain endeavors to find the
bold climber. Peering into tree after .tree, now cer-
tain, now uncertain. "Yes, she is there !"-" No!
its a black knot!" How quickly the merry chatterer
appreciates the: cause of this exhibition of doubt !
Darting into a' hole, she whispers to her young, ".The
man is not the boy ! His rifle shines with silver;
bnt it is not the old rusty shot-gun he used to carry,
which sent the cold lead with such certainty. Come,
chicks, no fear !" And now that old monarch of
the woods, which has stood the blasts of .a century,
resounds with the chattering derision of the whole
nest. Bang! Good sir, you have ttd your pow-
he nimble innocents gambol upon their native
4tmghs unharmed. Come, ascend this stately tower
taY t overlooks the tops of the forest verdure. A
cene ishere which you may enjoy without prosti-
tutingdur sight to the destruction of life merely
for pastime. You climb the square tower to its top.
Folding the arms, as if transfixed by the magnificent
truth revealed, you are lost in the contemplation.
Look north! pilesupon piles of mountain heights rise
before you. The eye wanders,'along their serpentine
indIngs for twenty, perhaps thirty statute miles,
until it rests upon what appears a blue cloud, lying
against the skin the horizon. A beautiful female,
enveloped in the semblance of a riding-habit, with

raven locks streaming backwards in the breeze, now
gathering up the reins of her steed, her dark eye,
crested with brows of delicate grace, and sparkling
in the flashing sunbeams, gives back a gaze so steady
as to turn your own. But, look again ! The saddle
only is there ! She must be the sprite of these moun-
tain ranges. Look west ! Following closely, range
upon range, for a distance of fifty miles, are stately
forests, interspersed with cultivated fields, the whole
picture dotted with thrifty-looking homesteads.
Along the distant horizon, stately columns of smoke,
moving southerly, rise against the blue sky in majes-
tic curves. On the left, behind that long range of
rolling hills, is a homestead in which i plain citizen
may be daily observed guiding the affairs of a
prosperous family, with the same industry, zeal,
confidence, and success which he once displayed
when holding in his grasp the sceptre of the Ameri-
can Republic. Look south ! Again the eye rests
upon verdure-clad mountains, but the hand of man
is clearly visible, exonerating nature from the air of
studied exactness, which speaks of the industrious
agriculturist. And now, as the telescope is brought
to bear upon some of the houses, what strange models
of architecture are presented. An intimate exami-
nation of these reveals isolation and singularity, as
chief characteristics of the occupants. Look east-! A
garden, as of a second paradise is there. Within a
few miles of each other, are a number of natural
ponds or little lakes, forming a circle, from within
which arise several spires; as of village churches, the
surrounding buildings and rich verdure leaving it for
imagination to supply the houses which 'support

4f
z

325,

GEORGE AIELVILLE"


GEORGE MELVILLE.G

them, dedicated to the solemn 'worship of Him-Na-
ture's .Architect--under the forms and ceremonies
acknowledged by the Pilgrim Fathers. Fxom within
the circle 6fthat collection of houses, arises a single
ehhi, standing like a faithful sentinel, and boldly de-
fyingliterally, every blast, as if the Stygian waters had
given to it the: power of a Hercules to come scath-
les from the fight. HarkI Those are voices ascend-
ing from that clump of whortleberry bushes. Per-
sons are approaching the tower,   Reader, let us
descend. Watching strangers from a distance is a
more agreeable employment than meeting them upon
a platform contracted by the limits of a tower. But
noW that the strangers are within sight, there is a
decided air about them which reminds us of friends.
And so they prove.
" Come, Bell, I shall never get my basket filled,
unless you help me," said Florence Melwood,
" Then you do not deserve to have it filled at all,"
repaid Bell Mortimer. " My basket holds a third
more than yours, and just look at it. It will not carry
twenty berries more."
Bell had evidently a very just idea of her friend's
industry; for, looking up with an arch smile, she said
"Flora, what have you done with your gallant
knight"
"hy, like a sensible girl, I have ordered him to
pick berries enough to fill my basket.  dHe heas
givenrme no peace.for the last half hour. As fast as
I piced the berries, he would steal them."
"Declaring, I suppose, a sweetness in flavor on ac-
on:t of thestolen fruit," said Bell.
" Yes,1Bell; and d eclaring something else. He

.I

I

wants to carry offdmother's baby, and I am deter-
mined he shall not have her," said Florence, with a
half sober,;lhalf pouting expression.
At this instant, William Hastings appeared upon
the scene. ,He approached Florence, .and giving her
a smile which can come only from a true heart, filled
her basket with whortleberries, out of a large leaf
which was so well heaped that it gave him some diffii-
culty to prevent the loss of the wild fruit.
"-There, Bell, coz," said Florence,,"you are wel-
come to youi- berries now."
I shall have to give them to Mrs. Melwood,
then, to console her if she loses her Flora," replied
Bell.
"Entirely unnecessary, Bell," said Florence.
"And what has Mrs. Melwood lost ?" asked Hastj
ings.
"The loss, Mr. Hastings, appears to be prospec-
tive," said Bell, laughing.
"I wish it would prove so," replied Hastings, as-
suming suddenly a mock gravity.
"'Jest' and 'Truth,' I perceive, have become in-
timate once more, Mr. Hastings;" said Bell.
"All owing to the necessity of the case, Miss Mor-
timer," replied Florence, putting on the semblance
of dignity. "If Miss Mortimer would only help
' Jest' to conquer ' Truth, she will gain more from
Mrs. Melwood than by presenting her with a basket
of berries."
"Bask at the berries-lamb-ike, of course," said
Hastings, seizing a handful from Bell's basket, and
assuming a very ilinocent expression of countenance
" Oh, sir, you will repent when too late. I cani

I

GrEORGE WE LV II;.L E.'


GEOR GE MELVILLE   329

exert my influence with Mrs. Melwood either for or
against you, sir,"' said Bell.
"Knowing that in advance, I believe in divesting
you of the ainews of war," replied Hastings, stealing
a second handful from Bell.
"You appear so well determined as to your course,
I believe it will be the best punishment if I endeavor
to hasten the progress of events," said Bell.
At this moment, Mrs. Meiwood, leaning on the arm
of George Melville, approached the. tower.  The
whole party then ascended to its top. For several
moments no one broke the silence. The splendor
of the view arrested every thought foreign to the,
deep emotion aroused by its extent, sublimity, and
grandeur.

XLVI.
Another Telegram-Early rising sometimes proves very agreeable.
WE left George Melville in such good hands, just
after his restoration to citizenship, that it is not to be
presumed the reader has felt anxiety in his behalf,
unless, indeed, it has been excited by an unsuccessful
effort to forget the unhappy mistake which a high
regard for justice had 'compelled .the administrators
of the law to commit. True, the iron had entered
deeply, and the wound was ;severe. The bright
hopes of friends apparently had been crushed forever.
Sad and bitter tears had been shed over the terrible
blow. A father's life-long aspirations had been covered
by a blackest cloud of deepest woe-making the silent
tomb a welcome sight, a coveted haven. The mother's
heart no pen can paint. It can be seen only by the
eye of'experience, and of Him, the Comforter,
"Who, once in mortal anguish,
Gave the widow back her son.'t
And the sister's unselfish tears! Life had been bereft
of its worth to her. But death was not invoked in
her prayers. Solitary, she would live and .mourn.
And the friends ! Sympathy in trial is one of the

_ ' '

I

3'28_    GEORGE MELVILLE.,

it  J        r
r  s~      ,
tr r
,
kallIn,
7               -

.z9.n i   . ."     .t


G832OR1GE MtELVILLE.
good gifts of Heaven; but there are times when the
heart refuses to confide even in angel visitors. How
little had George Melville expected that the mark of
a felon was so soon to be removed from his name !
How joyfully the warm blood coursed through his
eins when he drank to his fill the knowledge that
the friends, whose good opinion he had learned to
prize, were none of them alienated. The transition
was.great. The prison-shop for the parlor ; the con-
vict's garb for the freeman's apparel; the atmosphere
of crime, for the genial breathings of truth and virtue.
Contrast refuses to acknowledge greater extremes.
e..    *      *       *            *  *
"eAtelumgraph for Miss Bell," said Bess, as she
entered the parlor, bearing a letter in her hand..
"For me, Bess ?" asked Bell, rising from an otto-
man, and approaching the door.
" Yis 'um; man's.a waitin'," said Bess.
"Excuse me," said Bell, bowing to the ladies.
present, as she left the room.
Having satisfied the messenger's claim, she opened
her dispatch. It read as follows:
U--, i-.
To..BELL NORTIMER, AURORA, N. Y.
ome to U--; morning train from Auburn. Doctor --
wll be at U-- d6pot. Keep your movements secret. Follow his
directions.
B. F. MORTIMER.
'lease wait a moment, sir. .An answer is re-
ed, said Bell to the messenger. Then, running
up  aimto her room, with which the reader is already
familiar, she hastily penned the following:

GEORGE :MELVILLE.    831

Aai, N'.  , _  _
Will be at -city of U- by morning train.
BELL MORTIMER.
Having delivered this to the messenger, returning
to the parlor, Bell went immediately to the piano.
She commenced a series of songs and instrumental
pieces from the old German masters, with an occa-
sional selection from Rossini, Bellini, and Verdi.
The ladies present were so charmed at Bell's music
that, ere a half hour passed, she had actually cheated
them out of what curiosity a telegraph dispatch
would naturally create.
That night Bell retired early. On the following
morning; long before any of her company had
thought of leaving dreamland, Bell entered the
dining-room. To her surprise, she found- Bess there.
"'Why, Bess! you are early," said Bell.
"Yis, 'um. Telumgraph 'spatch 'portant, and so
Bess couldn't sleep. What's to be did ?" said Bess.
"Go and call James, and ,then set out a cold bite
for two," said Bell.
" Pshaw !" mumbled Bess, as she entered the
kitchen. "Miss Bell's ign'rant oh de commonest
principals oh keeping' good looks. She'd kill her
health a drinking' cold water in de mornin', ef
twan't for me."
Bess's first anxiety-was about the fire. In two
minutes she had a roaring blaze in the kitchen stove,
and the singing kettle, with the "small- drop of
water," as Bess called it, when she "sot the kittle
a bilin'," sounded very mucl like having a cup of
coffee " ready in no time."

4


332         GEORGE MEL VILLE.
"Par," mumbled Bess; "I'se sot de kittle a tiin',
with a small drop ob water, and ef Bell 'ul only
keep out ob de way, I'll git a cup ob tea ready in no
time."}
At this moment James entered the kitchen.
"Jims," said Bess, "Miss Bell wants you to kum
fur'to see heroin de sittin'-room. You needn't tell
anything 'bout de fire."
James understood this hint, being well acquainted
with Bess's ways. He knew also that if he failed
to comply, Bess would pay him off. She was one
of the servant kind (indeed few others are worth
anything), who have a will of their own, and make
their wishes respected -by the high and the low, those
above as well as those beneath them.
"James," said Belf, ".call Mr. Melville.. Say I
wish to see him. Make no noise about it which
may disturb others. His room is the large one at
the head of the stairs.
"Yis, ma'am," said James.'
Bell's summons, when he had consulted his watch
asto the hour, gave Melville some surprise.
"However," said he, in soliloquy," there are few
sleepers aroused this morning by a bell of sweeter
tone."
In a short time, Melville descended by the front
hall stairway. 4Bell awaited him, hat in hand, at the
parlor door. Jdis was the first moment, exclusively
their own, since the hour Melville returned to his
father's home, after the breaking of his leg.  He
took the offered hand and pressed it warmly to his
lips.
"And am I yet esteemed by Bell Mortimer ?" said

GEORGE MELVILLE.               333
he. "Such a lovely flower should be placed in. a
golden handle, free from dross, which no atmosphere
can soil."
"Where it would droop and wither by the next
morning's light. The flower, when taken from its
parent stem, must look to loving hands for suste-
nance, if it would continue its bloom., Rise, George.
Kneel not to me ! Let us both kneel to Heaven,
where the order was given which has restored our
happiness," said Bell.
For the rfist/time, George Melville clasped to his
heart the beautiful girl whose love had been tried by
such a terrible ordeal. Bell Mortimer sought not to
resist his embrace. Her burning anxiety, grown to
be almost ;insupportable, at last found full relief in
tears, shed upon the bosom where every drop was
mingled with the life-current of a heart beating only
for her love. Was this the happiest moment that
Bell had yet lived?  If it was not, the next was. the
happiest of Melville's existence, as his eye caught
the joyous smile which beamed upon him. Once
more he clasped the noble girl to his heart, as he
sealed his love with the first kiss of affection upon
lips which, in waking and in dreams, had breathed
his name with pride.
The hall-door opened from the dining-room.
"I'se wondering I" soliloquized Bess, as she shuf-
fled into the, hall. "Miss Bell was in mi'ty hurry
fur nothin', and I might' jest as well cooked up a
beef-steak coal black. What on yarth's keepin' her
up stairs !" Saying which, Bess began to ascend, an
occupation which Bell by no means endeavored to
interrupt.


n%               ,A
S;"F'         r  {
p   .r.
if!   Ti              ..
tis
fi  '  {1'  _
i  Y            I                 i
+W'     '         .       '      f
l     ^
k             t
:t

GElORGE 1MEL.VILL]3.-

335

.334        G EORE MELYIL LE.
As soon as Bess was. at the. top of the stairs, Bell
arose and passed into the dining-room.  She was
somewhat surprised at the aspect of the table. A
smoking hot beef-steak, fried potatoes, some cucum-
bers fresh from the vines, a plate of nicely browned
toast, and a pot of hot coffee, which Bell knew from
experience, could not be excelled. Bess was not
the cook ; but it was always a proud morning to Mr.
/ Mortimer, when he could entrap her into getting up
a breakfast for him.
"Laws suz, Miss Bell. Where has you bin? Is'e
wint to your room and you wasn't thar."
"I was in the parlor, Bess.  Go and inform Mr.
Melville that breakfast is ready," said Bell, opening
the kitchen door, where James was seated, arranging
a mess for his horses.
" James, harness up the bays, and prepare to drive
me to Auburn. I shall be ready in twenty minutes."
" I knew as how there was something in the wind,
faith. It's well I fed the horses when I giv thim good
mornin', shure," said James, as he entered the barn.
" It's a cruel pace of bizness, Jack,"to take you out
so airly  There's one consolashun ye have shure.
Whin Bell is married, George Melville's the gintl'man
what'al niver let you be taken out afore breakfast.
Mind that now, ye Jack ! Whoa, Bill! There, be
jabers! an ye as dhry as a yeast cake. Dhrink! of it
was whishky shure, ye niver ud git setisfaction; be
jabers 1"
"Misser Melville, Miss Mortimer's kompulmunts,
an' she'd like you to kum to brekfust," said Bess.
" Withpleasure, Bess," replied Melville.
" Law, suz ! Misser Melvillb, yu'se no idee how

[
fn

foolish I gits sumtimes. This mornin', I'se dun the
cooking' and let the lazy, cook sleep. She paint up yit,"
said Bess. " Pooty one, Miss, Bell is. Wanted fur
to hev nuthin but cole water fur a brekfust."
"Bess, you have really proved your extraordinary
talent for an emergency," said Melville, as he carved
a delicate piece of the steak for Bell. ' "Please hand
that plate to Miss Mortimer."
"And I shall be disappointed if that cup of coffee
fails to meet decided approbation from you," said
Bell.
Eating was not the order of exercise at either end
of the table.  George Melville had altogether too
much to admire, seated opposite, behind the rich array
of a costly breakfast-set. Bell had more than she
could accomplish, to keep down her blushes, excited
by the earnest gaze and affectionate 'smile, blending
so well with the graceful dignity which characterized
Melville's address at the table. She had often faced
a crowded breakfast-table in the.capacity of hostess,
and without wishing to hasten the ticking of the
clock.. Now, she could hear her heart beat,iso quickly
and so strong, that the old, clock's second-ticks seemed
like minutes, and the minutes became hours. But
there is an end to everything, except a circle.
" I'se ob de pinyon, dat Miss Bell Mortimer haint
ete nuthin',-and dat all Misser Melville's eten is kuf-
fee. Jest look at Miss Bell's plate. I'se got nuff
stake leff fur me and Jim. Jim!' Jim! hes dey druve
off?" asked Bess, at the end of her soliloquy, as
James opened the kitchen door.
" Yis, Bess ; and _Bells flity as a broom-stick.
'Told me, faith, to git ready, be jabers! and dhrive the

}i7 ,;

r% 9 ;

"Are

a


33   GEOIRGE MNEL V IILE.                        G~REMLIL~

337

bays to Auburn, and Julius Sayzar the Grate, here I
is and got to dhress meself. It niver'1 do fur to wark
in the barn wid the best coat on," said James.; his
countenance expressing an unusual amount of indig-
nation.
"What you bein' mad 'bout! Miss Bell kin drive
better'n you. Come along and ete brekfust. Guess
you won't git better dis mornin'," said Bess. "Bell
kin teach you to drive."
Now Bess would scold and fret at Bell by the
hour, magnifying everything she did into a folly or
a fault; but she allowed no one else the same privi-
lege. The least reflection upon the idol of her heart.
was sure to be visited with a reprimand.
James did not presume to contradict Bess. He
quietly took the seat at the table just vacated by Mel-
ville, and waited very demurely for Bess to help him.
"There ! ef you've sed over grace, you kin ete,"
said Bess ; .her countenance assuming a very devout
seriousness.
James took the offered plate, and obeyed orders
so cleverly and skillfully, that Bess began to regain
her good temper, which had been ruffled by his incon-
siderate charge against Bell. The exhibition of such
extensive powers at. eating, Bess considered a great
compliment to her cooking. It soon enabled her to
overlook the charge of flightiness brought against
Bell. Bess's respect for James arose in proportion to
the rapidity with which the victualing disappeared.
The inquiries for Bell were extensive, as the party
of the evening before, assembled once more around
the hospitable board, presented at the regular break-
fast hour under- Mrs. Mortimer's roof. But none of

the inquiries were satisfied. Mrs. Mortimer herself,
was ignorant of Bell's movements.
"Bess, go and call Mr. Melville," said Mrs. Mor-
timer.
" Yis, urn," replied Bess, and she immediately left
the room, Entering the parlor, she seated herself in
the largest rocking-chair, and commenced one of he
soliloquies.
Call Misser Melville ! dat am easier sed dan dun.
I'se pinyun Miss Bell wants to mind her own biz'niss
fur herself. Now, s'posin' I'se fool, tells Bell's gone
wid Misser Melville. Dat want do way I'se brung
up, nohow. Dar! I'se bin here 'nuff to go up de
stars, an' Misser Melville ain't dar."
Having thus marked out her line of conduct, Bess
returned to the dining-room, and reported "Misser
Melville's room hain't nobody in it.'
Mrs. Mortimer became satisfied that Bell had gone
for a drive, in company with Melville, and thought
no further of the matter.

t;.
_
g Y
,s
ti  ,
,i
,
4
T
r
;
t
i
n
T
k
i    '
l

336

GEOjGE MEL V IL L +'


GEORGE MELV1LLE.

XLVII.

Bell Mortamer makes' the Acquaintance of Sarah K. Grahar,
Ta greeting between the doctor and Bell, upon
her arrival at the city of U-, was sufficient evi-
dence of old acquaintanceship. The doctor's carriage
stood at the d6p6t ready to convey Bell to-the Asylum-
On the way, he informed her of the revelations made
by Sarah Graham, and the plans of her father.
" Can Sarah be moved now ?" asked Bell.
"I think she can," replied the doctor. "-I will
send a physician, -however, as an escort; and my wife
shall also accompany you."
"When    o you think we had better start " asked
Bell.
" That will depend entirely upon Sarah herself-
Mrs. Graham arrived last night, and Sarah will not
desire to leave her immediately," said the doctor.
"Why not have Mrs.. Graham accompany us, and
make the visit with Sarah," asked BelL
"She cannot do so;, her business requires her prey;
ence. She is, a milliner," said the doctor.
They had now reached the Asylum. Bell was re-
ceived with the utmost cordiality by the doctor's
family.. Dinner over, the doctor conducted Bell to
Sarah's room. He had so prepared the way, that a

t 1
e

GEORGE M i'LVILLE.

g39

friendship soon sprang up between them. The ardu-
oas duties of his post did not allow him to remain
long, however pleasant his society might have
proved. Bell's reception by Mrs. Graham was tinc-
tured somewhat with an unnecessary restraint, caused
by a difference of education and position; but Bell's
frankness and cordiality of manners soon placed her
at ease. Sarah had learned from her kind physician,
that she  ight extend her love to Bell Mortimer
without fearing that the affection would be slighted,
or allowed to go unappreciated. She was, therefore,
prepared to open her whole heart. Bell, during the
short ride with the doctor from the depot, had ob-
tained the particulars of the relation Sarah stood in
regard to Melville's pardon. She at once divined
the reason why her father wished to cover Sarah's
retreat to Aurora under a veil of secrecy. By pre-
venting even the most intimate friends from a know-
ledge of her place of abode, the chances for her being
discovered would be lessened. Mr. Mortimer had
been taught by experience the advantageof keeping.
his own counsel,, and Bell knew her father. She also
knew James Mordaunt,.and saw that her father took
the precaution to render him powerless to effect his
purpose, should he endeavor to obtain an interview
with Sarah. These precautions proved to be founded
in wisdom; for James Mordaunt, before his convic-
tion, while his liberty balanced upon a pivot, made
every effort in his power to discover Sarah. He even
went so far as to visit Aurora himself, and by mak-
ing inquiries among the people, and learning that a
lady had been visiting at Mr. Mortimer's answering
to the description of Sarah, he essayed to send a

.. ;,


GEORGE MELVILLE.

341

GEORGE MELVILLE.

_'

female friend, with whom the Mortimer family were
unacquainted, to call upon her.
But Mr. Mortimer was too wary in his tactics to
be caught., Although Sarah Graham   was at the
time under his roof, and he himself in New York,
still Nordaunt's plans did not succeed. His friend
went away allowing herself to believe that no such
person was at Mr. Mortimer's residence.
This little episode we put in here, although it
breaks the thread of our story, merely to fill up the
time while Bell Mortimer and Sarah Graham are
endeavoring to make up their minds whether they
can become warm friends. So far as Bell was con-
cerned, the question was soon solved. Sympathy,
gratitude, and a father's expressed desire, were suf-
ficiently powerful persuadents. On Sarah's part, the
task was more difficult. She was the recipient of
favor. Her pride revolted at obligations. Bell was
her superior in position, intelligence, wealth, ponor,
virtue. She had lost the beauty which had been at
once her pride and her ruin. Bell was radiant with
that beauty which Sarah's practised. eye told her
;constituted the highest perfection of woman's attrac-
tions. How, then, were two such hearts to become
welded by the bonds of friendship? Sarah felt the
gulf; Bell saw it. Bell determined to leap boldly
across the chasm; Sarah timidly ventured to cross
it, with tottering steps, upon a narrow foot-plank.
But they did reach a common ground, and were
joined by the holy bands of faith, hope and
charity.
At six o'clock r.x., George Melville drove, through

Mr. Mortiner's carriage gate the fine span of bys
which were the admiration and envy of half the
county.
"Where is Bell? Where's Bell? Where have you
left Bell?" chorused a half-dozen voices at once, as
he alighted and handed the reins to James.
Could not possibly inform you," said Melville. I
accompanied her this morning to Auburn. She took
the cars for the East, and begged me to make her
excuses to all whom it may concern here in this
house."
"But where has she gone ?" said Mrs. Edge-
monte.
aI can only answer that question by saying: She
took the cars for the East, therefore she has gone
East," said George.
"That is the benefit of talking by lightning," said
Mrs. Melville.
"It's the telegraphic dispatch she received yester-
day which has caused this mischief," said Mrs.
Edgemonte. "Did she say good bye to you, Mrs.
Mortimer ?"
"She did not. This is the first news I have re-
ceived about a telegraphic dispatch," replied Mrs.
Mortimer. "I have no doubt everything is right,
however. It was, doubtless, from  her father or
Fred ; and she could not bear the idea of waking
you all up merely to say good bye. What hour
did you leave Aurora, Mr. Melville ?"
"It was about half-past five o'clock," replied
George.
Two days subsequently, the whole party broke up,
finding that woman's rights did not work satisfac-

I

840

i


342     GEORGE MELVILLE.

tqgily in the matter of country visiting. The only
persons who seemed fully to enjoy themselves were
William  Hastings and Florence Melwood.     Flo-
rence's happiness, however,lasted but one day; for
Mr. Hastings found it necessary to leave Aurora on
the second morning after his arrival.
XLVfI.
The Homestead of an American Mechanic--A Propositio
As has been seen, George Melville, whe
returned to Aurora, on the day he drove Mi
timer's bays to Auburn for the purpose of car
Bell to the cars, did not arrive until about the
for sunset. What should have kept him so
away from his friends, so soon after his release?
question certainly is, naturally suggested, a
mands an answer.
Upon arriving at Auburn, George drove t
hotel.
" Are we in time for the morning train ?" ask
of the porter, who stood in waiting.
"Yes, sir !" was the reply. "There's three
ters of an hour before the omnibus goes to the
Will you have your horses put out?"
At this instant, the proprietor, who had
descended from his morning toilette, came out
the walk.
"Good morning, Miss Mortimer?   God  pi
Mr. Melville !
The salutation of thegnlmnl       adod

n he
Mor-
rying
hour
long
The
d de-
o the
:e;] he
quar-
i6pot.
just
upon
rning,
was

GEORGE MELVILLE.   343


344     GEORGE MELVILLE.                         G

returned by both with real pleasure, for both had felt
his kindness under many circumstances.
"Will you take the cars this morning ?" asked the.
landlord.
"Miss Mortimer will," said Melville, in reply.
"We had better leave the horses to get their feed,"
said Melville, addressing Bell in a subdued tone.
"Very well," replied Bell. "I make no objections
to your arrangements."
They alighted, and entered the hotel. In about
half an hour, an omnibus stopped in front of the main
entrance, and the porter cried out:
"All aboard for the cars !"
Bell and Melville took their seats in the omnibus,
which conveyed them to the railroad depot in a few
moments. She had not offered to inform Melville
concerning her destination. She merely said that
her father had telegraphed for her, and requested
him to say as little as possible about her departure.
He did not ask her destination. -'As soon as the cars
had left the depot, Melville turned to retrace his
steps to the omnibus, where. he was accosted by the
machine contractor of the prison.
"Good morning, Mr. Melville," said the,-con-
tractor.
"Good morning !" returned Melville, accepting his
proffered hand.
"You have left my steam-engine in the lurch, Mr.
Melville," continued the contractor, with a smile.
"I don't regret the step,.sir," replied Melville.
"Probably not; but I regret your loss from my
shop. Mr. Melville, they cannot make a fool of you
longer, by asking you to dose the sick folks, and

fight for or against either big or little pills. This is
all a good and very necessary employment, but you
have genius for a man's work. I am ready to offer
you a partnership .in my contract,. or to establish
with you an entirely new concern wheresoever you say
locate it. My contract has three years to run,- and
then I must depend on my chances for its extension.
If any one bids over me, who is responsible, I lose it.
What say you to adopting my profession, and letting
-    your M.D.,certificate hang up for your grandchildren
to wonder how it ever came into the family ?"
"I am entirely willing to embark in the business,
- but the prison contract would not be a pleasing con-
nection."
"That I expected you would say, Mr. Melville.
A prison contract, however, is not the only warrant
of success in the business."
"I am well aware of that, sir," replied IMelville.
"But at present, I do not feel sufficiently a master
of trade, to indulge any extended risk of capital under
my direction."
"I am ready to make you the following propo-
sition. As soon as I can dispose of my contract here
by sale, or otherwise, I will embark an equal
amount of capital with you. We will then enter' the
city of New York together, and establish a first class
manufactory of iron works," replied the contractor.
"The proposition, sir, is certainly flattering, and
merits the highest consideration. I am well aware
that you would incur a heavy responsibility by en-
deavoring to make me equal to you as an assistantin
the daily routine," said Melville.
"Indeed not, Mr. Melville. I can already learn
15*

A&amp;

345

GEORGE MELVILLE.

V


346    GEORGE MELVILLE.

of you. All may become more or less skillful- as
workmen, but few have your bumps, as the phrenolo-
gists say, for mechanical combination and invention,"
said the contractor. "Come, Melville, you have
an hour or so ; let me take you to my residence,
where we can talk the matter over fully and I will
show you my taste in the art of living."
"Very well! I know of nothing, sir, that, just now,
would give me greater pleasure," said Melville.
"Going up town, sir ?" said the hotel porter.
"I believe not at present," said. Melville, tossing
the man a small bonus. "See that the bays are well
provided for."
"Yes, sir," replied the porter.
JMelville then joined the contractor. Their course
led them first through the depot, then along a wide
street, one side of which was occupied with houses
of German and Irish laborers; some giving evidence
of extreme poverty, while others showed thrift.
The opposite side indicated more wealth. Several
generous-appearing residences, surrounded with am-
ple grounds and rich foliage, were unmistakable evi-
dences of comfort, if not of luxury. This street was
short in extent, leading east, and connecting two of
the main outlets of the country travel to the city.
Passing to the eastern extremity of the cross street,
Melville and the contractor entered upon one of :the
main outlets referred to-a broad and handsome
thoroughfare, the lots on both sides being occupied
with neat though not costly homesteads. The side-
walks on this street were lined with beautiful trees,
casting a grateful shade upon the passers-by. In a
nortJerly direction, this street led up a long hill,

the ascent being gentle, but, owing to the distance,
the elevation was considerable.  Tall and stately
poplar trees stood in front of several residences,
cresting the brow of the hill. Here a change of air
was perceptible, there being large and beautifully
ornamented gardens, open lawns, and retreats thickly
studded with shrubbery. The ailanthus, horse chest-
nut, flowering maple, cedar, wild cherry, spruce, and so
forth, adorned the door-yards in rich profusion, while
the sidewalks were planted with magnificent trees,
whose branches, locked in close embrace, formed for
the carriage-passers a roof of closely-matted verdure.
" Here you see my place, Mr. Melville," said the
contractor, pointing to a large mansion built of brick,
in front of which were several stately columns, painted
white and bearing the Ionic characteristics in their
fluting, caps and bases. The house stood back from
the road about six or eight rods. The yard surround-
ing it had a front which Melville judged to measure
from eighteen to twenty rods.- To the right of the
building was an extensive kitchen garden, tasfefully
laid out into beds, the edges of which were carefully.
bordered with a light green moss. The paths between
the beds, winding in a hundred graceful curves, oc-
casionally being turned into sharp angles, as the beds
chanced to be circular or square in form, were filled
with fine gravel, through which the industrious gar-
dener would not allow a single blade of green to find
its way. y Several grape arbors, or summer-houses,
adorned the garden; one of which showed the ehagrae-
ter and employment of the owner, being very large,
of beautiful 'form, and constructed entirely of iron.
At intervals in the garden were beds of flowers,

GEORGE MELVILLE.


348    GEORGE MELVILLE.

forming a beautiful dress for the substantial, such as
beets, onions, cabbages, cucumbers, melons, corn,
beans, early potatoes, etc., etc. At this particular
season, the whole garden was adorned, with thousands
of dahlia blossoms, of all shades and varieties which
the most untiring industry could procure. Directly
in front of the house, the yard was filled with fruit-
bearing trees of the rarest kinds, interspersed occa-
sionally with a beautiful evergreen. At the roots of
them, and surrounding their trunks,- the tasteful
gardener had patiently removed the green sward,
making them to stand in diamonds, crescents,
hearts, circles, etc., the earth being worked very
smooth, and then covered with white sand. To give'
effect to the whole, the grass was kept closely shaven.
"You must have enjoyed a! view of the Elysian
Fields, sir, of which I have, had a very imaginary
notion until this moment," said Melville.
"Kot a very close view. I am one who can ap-
preciate the beauties of such a home, but not one to
build it. My wife and gardener do all the planning,
executing, and buying. I simply pay the -piper,"
said the contractor.
Melville was now conducted into the house, and
introduced by the contractor to his wife and daugh-
ters-three additions to the programme, which Mel-
ville considered clear gain. A tour of the garden
was then made, which occupied a good share of the
morning. In the meantime, the contractor was busily
engaged perfecting his plans for Melville's considera-
tion in regard to the proposed "Iron Works."
The hour for dinner had arrived ere all the ar-
rfngements for the plans had been perfected.

After this staple meal had been accomplished,
which is usually partaken of between twelve and one
o'clock by the great mass of the American people, the
contractor unfolded to Melville his project, present-
ing him with the plan carefully put in writing.
Melville's answer was frank and full-
"I like the general features of the business, and
have no doubt but that the details will prove both
pleasurable and profitable. You shall have my an-
swer in a few days. I will give it to you either per-
sonally or by mail."
It was now nearly half-past two o'clock, r.M. Mel-
ville arose to take his departure.
" My carriage will be here in a few moments, Mr.
Melville. You must bid. the ladies good afternoon,
and then I will drive you to the hotel."
" I shall make no objections, although the walk
would doubtless prove agreeable,".replied Melville.
"The distance is about a miIe, sir, and you will
save time by taking the carriage," replied the con-
tractor.
In a few moments the 'carriage arrived, and Mel~
ville accompanied his friend to the hotel. Having
ordered his horses, he started once more upon the
road to Aurora, where he arrived, as the reader has
already learned.

GEORGE MELVILLE.    349

-
Al


350     G   GEORGE MELVILL.E3.

XLIX.
Trial of the Action " Wilcox against Mordaunt "-Thomas F. Griswold,
Esquire, addresses the Jury-The Utica Asylum again-One of' the
Biters bitten.
Ors week subsequent to the departure of Bell
Mortimer for the city of U-, the removal of Sarah
E. Graham to Mr. Mortimer's residence in Aurora
was accomplished. The fatigue of the journey was
considerable for Sarah; but the change and exercise
produced a salutary effect upon her health. Bell im-
mediately devoted her whole time to make Sarah
happy. A sister could not have shown greater sacri-
fice, or more enduring attention. Each daysshe
planned some excursion in which the "bays" were
called into active requisition. Sarah began gradual-
ly to love the hand that watched so closely for her
comfort. Thus a month passed ; but ere it elapsed,
Sarah had forgotten to reflect upon the idea, that
she was incurring any obligation. She had been
made to feel so much at home, that she had almost
forgotten to brood over the past.
In the meantime, J. S. Taylor, Esquire, was slowly
bit steadily gaining ground in the cause instituted for
the purpose of establishing the marriage of Mary Wil-
cox with James Mordaunt. The time had arrived to

bring the case before the courts. Every effort had
had been made by Mordaunt to put off, harass and
otherwise delay the' trial. On consultation with .his
aunt, Mrs. Tryon, he had determined to contest the
suit to the last. Should it go against him, it was
merely a matter of dollars and-cents ; and, as regards
character, he was already placed under three in-
dictments, and consequently had nothing to lose.
At length, the cause was duly noticed for trial by
both parties, with a determination to abide an issue
before a jury. Had the proofs been ample, Mr. Taylor
would doubtless have hastened this desirable result.
Considerable difficulty was raised by Mordaunt's
counsel in regard to the jury. At length, the clerk'
of the court announced the panel to be complete,
when the judge ordered that the jury be sworn. The
cause was then placed in the hands of the counsel.
Mr. Thomas F. Griswold arose, and made the
opening address. Said he:
" May it please the court and gentlemen of the
jury:
" We are assembled for no ordinary purpose. The
scales of justice are seldom filled with facts such as
are now to be presented for your consideration. I
am well aware of the high responsibility devolving
upon each one engaged in the prosecution of a cause
which strikes at the position, reputation, influence
and purse of one who has gained, by superior talent,
skill, and mental, acquirements, a hold upon the pub-
lic mind, at once honorable and influent atial. It is
true, circumstances have been developed, which have
led the officers of justice to institute criminal proceed-
ings against the defendant in this cause. This may

GEORGE MELVILLE.   351


352     GEORG.E MELVILLE.

have thrown around his name a taint for the time be-
ing. It is my wish, and I consider it alike my duty,
to endeavor to disabuse your minds of every feeling
against the defendant on this account. Let him
stand before your judgments as one who is pure. Let
him fall from that high position, as regards your ver-
dict in this action, only so far and so fast as the prose-
cution shall develop iniquity, wrong and villainy, per-
petrated by him upon her who sits at my side, asking
that truth, and truth-alone may sway you. A few years
since, a widowed mother possessed a beloved child.
The mother's hopes and anticipations for that daughter
were co-eqal with her health, bloom, industry, and
intellectual promise, which loving friends and fond
relatives freely discerned and proudly acknowledged.
The destroyer came. Within a few short months,
the fond mother's heart was turned to sorrow ; friends
were made to point the finger of scorn at the daughter.
She who sits at my side, lay. in the dust, stricken down
and crushed in the morning of life. Up to this hour,
no relenting thought has found its note of sympathy
for the broken spirit. But .he, thus crushed, comes
not before you in the attitude of criminality. So far as
her acts are part of this history, she stands before you
pure and spotless as the gentle rays of the evening
twilight, a true and faithful wife. Such is a general
picture of the case without relating the facts. As
the cause shall be developed, you will be asked to
determine the following series of events."
We cannot pursue Mr. Griswold's opening address
farther; nor is it necessary, as the remainder was a
simple statement of the facts already known to the
reader.

Nor is it necessary to pursue the history of the
trial, as the records of the court-room are notoriously
so voluminous, that they would be out of position in
these pages. Should any of our readers desire the
records, doubtless the clerk of the county of New
York will allow access to them, if they were put on
file in his office, as they ought to have been.
The trial of the cause lasted four days. It resulted,
as has already appeared, in the complete vindication
of Mary Wilcox's reputation ; and. gave her the
right to assume the name of Mordaunt. A subse-
quent action for divorce resulted in freeing Mary
from Mordaunt, and setting apart for her a comfort-
able support ; also, granting her the right to marry
again.
This act of justice was a severe stroke against the
pride of Mrs. Tryon. Her interests and reputation
were so identified with her nephew, .that she felt,
perhaps keener than he, the disgrace attached to the
verdict. The defeat had also lost to James Mordaunt
much of his aunt's confidence in his skill. She was
a woman who judged by results. This state of tran-
sition against her nephew, led Mrs. Tryon to fear a
similar issue in regard to the pending criminal pro-
ceedings. Should James Mordaurnt be convicted,
and stand before the world a condemned felon, then
earth had no more comfort for her. Mrs. Tryon was
only one of the thousand, who regard that success
justifies the means, covering up terrible sins.
Already her health. had suffered by a life of New
York dissipation. In flesh, she had lost many pounds,
and her spirits sank fast under the influences of a
guilty conscience, abridged ambition, and a sinking

GEORGE MELVILLE.

353


354    GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORaE MELVILLE.    355

constitution. Two months subsequently, she lay upon
a bed, burning with fever, and the terrible gulf which
separates man from his God seemed clearly visible.
In two days she lost her reason.; but the hot fever
raged on. Upon the tenth day, her physician thought
he witnessed a change. His keen eye also saw that,
although Mrs. Tryon might regain her strength, she
would be a maniac. His fears proved to be too well
founded. Two months from that time, James Mor-.
daunt's aunt occupied, in advance of her nephew's
conviction and sentence to the State prison, the iden-
tical room in the State Asylum which had so long
been the h( me of Sarah E. Graham.

a

L.
Death of a New York City Policeman-A Trial, Sentence, and Exe-
cution--Ought Governors to hold the pardoning Power?
THiE arrest of Robert Shank was made in the night-
time. ie was taken with considerable difficulty.
When the officer received Chief MI's telegraphic
dispatch, Shank was in a gambling-house on Broad
way. The approach of the police was discovered,
and all in the house at the time endeavored to make
their escape. By accident, one of the police, after
all hopes of making the arrest that night seemed lost,
chanced to walk through Canal street from Broad-
way, into Mercer street. Opposite a lamp-post, he
saw a man, apparently endeavoring to read the hour
from his watch. Closely scanning his features, he
recognized the very game he sought. Immedia .
giving a signal for assistance, he seized him by the
arm, saying-
"Robert Shank, you are my prisoner."
Shank aimed a, blow at the officer, which was
successfully parried. A trial of strength ensued, in
which Shank drew a knife and succeeded in infliet-
ing a dangerous wound upon the officer's left breast.
The wounded man fell heavily to the ground; but,
not relaxing his hold, Shank was drawn down with
him.


356     GEORGE MELVILL K'

GEORGE MELVILL E. .-   357

As he was about to inflict a second blow upon the
fallen policeman, his arm was rendered powerless
by a well-directed blow given by a policeman, who'
had answered the signal. Shank. felt himself seized
by a second assailant. Mustering all his strength, he
made one more effort to effectlis escape. In this he
would have succeeded, but for the unflinching cou-
rage of the wounded officer, who, having. grasped his
legs with both arms, held him, as the event proved,
with the death grasp. This enabled the second offi-
cer to aim a blow at Shank which, for the instant,
rendered him powerless.   Taking a cord from his
pocket, he succeeded in binding Shank's arms behind
his back, before he revived from the effects of the
blow. Several other officers now reached thescene
of action, when Shank was fully secured. His knife
was picked up, reeking with blood. Before assist-
ancecould be procured for the wounded policeman,
he breathed his last. Shank was immediately con-
veyed to the Tombs.*
The wheels of justice, when money is freely used
to ,b, k them, turn slowly, and, too often, crazily.
ithstanding the clear evidence which marked
k for the gallows, still, nearly ten months had
elapsed from the time he killed the policeman before
he was adjudged to die. On the thirtieth day of
June, he was brought into court to receive his sen-
tence. The case had not failed to excite considerable
interest, as all actions on behalf of the people, in-
volving the penalty of death, usually do. In conse-
quence, the court-room was filled. At ten o'clock in
* "Tombs," is a nickname bestowed upon one of the New
York city jails.

the morning, the prisoner was led into the room.
Every eye was instantly turned upon him. He
walked erect and firmly, looking over the assembled
hundreds, with a careless, but unflinching glance; A
close observer, however, might have detected in his
eye, regret. Whether it was a regret which pro-
ceeded from fear of death, aroused by a guilty con-
science, or a regret dt not being permitted to prey
longer upon honest people, it was impossible to de-
cide. While the prisoner was being led to a seat by
his counsel, a buzz ran over the audience, caused by
a general movement to obtain a better view of him.
At length, the court crier rapped several times
upon his desk, when instantly a solemn stillness per-
vaded the audience. Every breath was held, and
every ear eagerly opened to catch each word of the
presiding justice. He thus addressed the guilty
wretch before him.
"Robert Shank, stand up."
The prisoner arose. Qnce more, a general buzz
ran over the audience, which was immediately suc-
ceeded by a silence as of the grave.
The judge, whose benevolent countenance sho*
plainly how sincerely he shrank from the sole
duty which devolved upon him, then delivered the
following address to the prisoner:
"Prisoner at the bar! you stand before this court
convicted of the crime of murder, the highest offence
known against human law. Your conviction has
been the result of an earnest, careful, and solemn
discharge of duty. That duty has been unsought by
the men who have sealed your doom. In making up
their verdict, your jury have been assisted by the


158     GEORGE MELVILLE

efforts of wise counsels and earnest appeals both pn
your behalf and for the measure of justice. The
doubt, which the law, with her ready protection,
throws around the life and liberty of .every citizen,
has, by their verdict, been, taken from your brow.
In its place, there is stamped upon it, in plain charac-
ters, the terrible word 'murderer.'  See to it, ere
the short time shall elapse which the court, for your
own sake, has determined to add to your life, that
this terrible word does not become stamped in inef-
faceable characters upon your soul.  The facts of
your crime are peculiar. While the hand of justice
was being laid upon your arm, calling you to an ac-
count for'the life of oneonce a herald of God's truth
to man, and for the taking of whose life you would
have been brought to trial, had the result of the pre-
sent action been different; with the knowledge of
your crimes, or your innocence, you struck down a
fellow-being, who had warned you that his purpose
was commanded by duty. Innocence seldom feareth
the inquiry of justice, however searching.  Con-
scious guilt is sure to plan and quick to execute addi-
t' nal crime. The verdict of your jury, while it con-
sffns your body to a felon's death, also gives public
opinion the right to look to you for a solution of the
doubt which yet hangs over the memory of your sup-
posed victim, Rev. John Furnace. See to it, as you
endeavor to make your peace with heaven, that you
hesitate long to approach that grave which separates
all mankind from the Great Judge, without removing
so much of your guilt as confession and repentance,
handmaids of Truth, can wash from your soul.
"Robert Shank, have you anything to say why

I

thy sentence of the law should not now be pro-
nounced against you?"
The large audience waited in breathless silence to
catch the prisoner's reply. It was very evident that
the address of the judge, so entirely unexpected by
the prisoner, as well as by the audience, had been
carefully listened to and duly weighed by the guilty
inan. But one thing prevented him from making a
full confession upon the spot-the fear that he should
implicate Mordaunt. After waiting a few moments,
he replied:
"Nothing, sir."
The justice then, taking up a piece of paper, con-
tinued:
"Robert Shank, you have been tried and convicted
of the crime of murder, by a jury of your country-
men, for the killing of John Peabody. It remains
for this court to pass upon you the sentence of the
law, in such cases made and provided. It is, that you
be taken from this room back to the confinement
from whence you came; that you be there kept until
the 16th day of August, proximo; that on that day,
between the hours of eight o'clock, A.., and six
o'clock, P.M., you be hanged by the neck until dead.
And may God have mercy upon your soul."
*      *      *      *      *      *   .
On the sixth day of August, subsequent to receiv-
ing his sentence, Shank sent a request for his counsel
to visit him, in company with a young clergyman to
whom he had become very much attached, and who,
in view of the awful doom which awaited Shank, had
been very attentive to him.
On that day he made a full confession of his

GEORC#E MELVILLE,.     359"


enis Th  oowigday, J^es}Is[ rdaunt.,. t3ak
},=p hi:Ft  ng paper,readafulccoynt of the
m :rde. 'J -urnaceandth part which
, , . . t { MY[faccont o hs onecio wth'  the
~$ocety ~ he ]&amp;vr Laitful" Teeader, possi-.
l~y  in~  e smehat surprised atthiscourse
itwibg o              dec raymerit in. te.xepentance
ofznam ~deeelinme     as wag Shank, There
are ohe ~  ~tnd read to throw the ma tied o
-hriy ~r~vthe ~reateat wickednes where
threexst ~easnbl    ope thtrue rpentance
wrti  hi mptn1aguo rth fithul
youm mnite o Gd' wrd thn hydi   pren
an     wulda     echebut for the way the
coneniti~ pracher tlked to him."
Oii  e teth da of August, Shank as, exe-
cutd.A i ghI  power alone can gy wetherthe.-
~a ws ca~dd n isdom which aministee capi-
~4iuismetin acse o uc palpable epetace
asw~ hs2 I  heviewo death, heanade full on-
fe&amp;u an.wthout thought of areprieve.    hy
shul ~uthmn law del with fakcession
~f rieon th esame picil which underlie the
divne i~w~  hy i sueh cases, should there not
puihment s  o   es in  somie@ stances nes-
sary hu shtil no th huan awgverhoI~ 'ut

GEORGE MELVILLE.

361

inducements to procure confessions similar to those
offered by the Holy Law Giver? Would not the
certain fear of the convicted felon's confession, for
the sake of commutation of sentence, stand as a pow-
erful preventive of banded villainy ? This view may
be wrong. Heaven's statute law, however,is founded
upon it, so far as the doctrines of confession and re-
pentance militate.
James Mordaunt, it will be remembered, was sen-
tenced to five years at hard labor in the State prison.
Ie was taken to the Sing Sing prison, which is
located in the village of Sing Sing, on the eastern
banks of the Hudson, a little more than thirty miles
from New York. He remained there but six months.
Through the interest of Mr. Mortimer, exerted in his
behalf; he was made the book-keeper of the prison--
an occupation which relieved him from the hard
labor, contemplated by the letter of the law; and we
doubt very much whether it carried out the spirt
thereof. At the expiration of six months, the Sing
Sing prison having become hyper-surfeited with
convicts, he, in common with nineteen others, was
removed to the Auburn prison. At Auburn he
obtained little sympathy. There George Melville
was known; and the man who had imprisoned him,
with whom the relations of friendship as well as com-
mon humanity, ought to have proved sufficient to
prevent the crime, found no favor at the hands of the-
keepers.
"Where shall James Mordaunt be put ?" asked
the clerk, as the agent entered the office. "He has
no trade."
"Mordaunt," said the agent, "would you not pre-
16


362     GEORGE MELVILLE.

fer shoemaking to weaving?  Perhaps you would
like George Melville's place Yes, that's just where
you shall go.. The machine shop. Who knows but
what, when your time is out, you may want a job of
George Melville?$ Be industrious, Mordaunt, and
we will make a good mechanic of you."
Mordaunt, had. he dared, could have stricken the
agent to the ground ; but he concluded, very wisely,
to use discretion under the circumstances.
The agent was up to his word. To the machine
siop Mordaunt went. He failed to carry there any
natural mechanical ability. During the time of, his
service as a .convict, he wasconsidered a drone in the
hive. We leave him for a while to regret the bitter
fate he ha4 !dealt out so readily for a base revenge,
and which had recoiled so significantly.

LI.
The Island Martha's Vineyard.
"Ma. MEvnim," asked Bell, as, standing against
the railing which surrounded the top of the tower,
she stretched forth her snow-white arm  eastward,
" Mr. Melville, I recognize that tall tree in yonder,
collection of houses as the celebrated elm you have
been describing."
"Yes, Miss Mortimer, that is the celebrated, I
should say distinguished, elm of Pittsfield, Massa-
chusetts," replied Melville.
"And what is that tall mountain in the north I"
asked Bell?
"Saddle-back Mountain., William's College lies
at its. feet," was the reply. '" Here, at the south, you
have the Hancock Shakers, a peculiar sect of deluded
religionists, industrious as they are neat, honest, and
exclusive. To the west, is Kinderhook; and those
moving columns of smoke are .made by the steam-
boats ploughing the noble Hudson. If it were not
for the intervening hils, we could easily discern
Albany, the capital of the great Empire State."'
"Mrs. Melwood, where did you leave mother ?"
asked Bell.
"With Frederick. She concluded the effort to.

GEORGE' MEL VIT.LE.-          1 363

'


GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE- MELVILLE.   365

walk to the "tower" was too much for her strength;
the: horses, she declared, should not come. They
will wait for us at the Mountain House."
Mrs. Mortimer, accompanied by Bell and Frede-
rick, had just been on a jaunt to the Island Mar-
tha's Vineyard for the purpose of returning the visits
made them by Mr. and Mrs. Melville, at Aurora.
it has already appeared that Edgartown was the
home of George Melville. Edgartown occupies a
lovely spot on this western hemisphere. There is an
ofd tradition surrounding the Island Maitha's Vine-
yd.: -Why it should not be entitled to credit we
cannot perceive. Certain are we, the romance of
truth surpasses. any creations of the imagination.
There being real romance in this tradition, we are
strongly inclined to believe in its truth. As the
story is handed down, a celebrated Indian chieftain
owned two islands, situated southeast of the State
called Massachusetts, and now forming a part there-
of. This chieftain had two daughters. Soon after.
the landing of the Pilgrims at Plymouth Rock,
these islands werevisited by the whites. . They were
dally received by the Indian warrior, and hospi-
tablentertained. In cowmrse of tine, a strong friend-.
.p arose between;the whites and the old chieftain,
whichled to yearly interchanges of visits. As his
daughters grew  xp they were christened by their
htefriends, additionalstheir Indian titles, Martha
d Nancy. Finally, the ald chieftain, brought down
by the atd.of disease, felt his end approaching.
Calling.his daughters, he said, using the broken Eng-
lish which he had learned, and which he always
spoke with evident pride-

Nancy-Martha-me old; me go to the happy
hunting grounds. Me no leave you look up to me,
and say, which island- mine?   Me say, you know
now which have. Nan, you old; choose ! Martha,
you young; have other !"
Nancy being thus commanded by the dying chief
selected for her inheritance the island now known as
Nantucket, so called because "Nan took it." Martha
received the other, which has ever since borne her
name, being known as the island "Martha's Vine-
yard."
A summer jaunt to these islands is full of interest,
involving, as-At does, someof the grandest water
scenery on the American continent. They are peo-
pled by a race of bold mariners. Every two men out
of three of the inhabitants bear'the' title "captain"
as an honorable handle to their names. The shores
of the islands are washed by the waves of old Ocean.
Forever the rolling surf has been singing its mourn-
ful requiem  where are new the graves of the old
chieftain's daughters.  As the "Eagle's Wing "-
bears us away from- the Vineyard, we offer the
following tribute to the gentle Indian Martha, who
yet hovers over the grave of her once mortal self,
now a
SPIRIT OF THE ISL. D HOME.
Oh, farewelli dear art, weseyeri
On the foaming seas I roam;
'Midst the storm, forget thee? never-
Spirit of thine Island Rome!'-
* "Eagle's Wing" is the name of a small steamboat, plying
between Martha's Vineyard and the continent.

. 1


366    GEORGE MELVILLE.

GFlORGE . MEL VILLE.       367

O'er the main, the wild waves dashing,
Soon will kiss our bold ship's keel;
Seek them, love, in moon-beams flashing;
On the beach by moonlight steal.
Speak thy fears ! dear hearthey'll listen,
ildly breaking on the shore;-
Flash on flash, with light they'll glisten,
Whisp'ring, as they cease to roar,
"Spirit-forn,"so graceful bending,
Fairest of the sca-clad isle,
To thy Ups one heard is sending
Kisses pure, by us the while."
Darkest night ! no moon, or star-bean
Gather softly in mine eye :-
On the deep-hath death's cold glare-bean
Come to light my latest sigh?
Spirit form, so graceful bending,
Fairest of the sea-clad isle,
For thy heart, that sigh is blending
Purest love with Heaven's smile.
Such was the " Island Home," where George Mel-
le's father, in the village of Edgartown, had estar
blished his summer residence.       It was a beautiful
home uniting the pleasures of a country life, the lux-
uries of both foreign and inland commerce, turned
towards the island by the" Eagle's Wing," and a rich
supply of unadulter4ed-sea-breezes.,
"Really, Geotge     , -id Bell Mortimer, as together
they promenaded teljd            of the little steamer,
"your summer homes agerof rare selection."
"Rather say, needsto b     studded withagem       of
rare selection," replied George Melille
he ardent gaze whichaccompanied this compli-
iuent, rather than the compliment itself, caused Bell's

pulse to beat more quickly. The hand which she
rested upon his arma, began to tremble.     Withdraw-
ing it, she, replied
" George, the diamond never becomes dimmed.
Time holds no poison with which to change its bril-
liant lustre. It" is not for me to become a gem      in
your home."
"Bell, then    you  shall become     a  tree in my
garden."
"A tree ?" said Bell.   "Why a tree ?"
"Listen to Allan Ramsay," replied George.
" See yon twa elms that grow up side by side-
Supposethem, some years syne, bridegroom and bride;
Nearer and nearer ilka year they've prest,
'Till wide their spreading branches are increast,
And in their mixture now are fully blest.
This shields the other frae the eastlin blast,
That in return defends it frae the west.
Sic as stand single,---a state sae liked by you !
Beneath ilk storm-frae every airth maun bow.'"
"Let me be a tree, dear George--not a gem," said
Bell.
"A   tree of heaven ! so you will become,"said
George, taking Bell's "hand, and drawing it gently
within his arm. It was not, relinquished until his
warm pressure was returned by:the slight trembling
which spoke a clear response     his last sentiment;
The boat was gradu "        iearingthe city of New
Bedford.   So man           t    f interest presented
themselves, that Melville was soox engaged"in the
pleasing task of pointiza g them  out for Bell's infor-
mation.      .
The:party on the boat.was the same with which

-;(


368    GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE+.    869

the reader has, met, on " Tower Mountain." Mrs.
Meiwood and her-daughter had accepted Mrs. Morti-
mer's urgent invitation, to visit Aurora. By particu-
lar request of George Melville, the. party first went
to Boston, and from thence to Pittsfield,. where
George desired to renew some of his old associations
as a medical student.
At Albany, George left the party, and took the cars
for New York, where now an equal partner with Mr.
James Carter, his friend the contractor, of Auburn
memory, he stood at the head of one of the most
extensive "iron works " in the United States. Al-
ready he had succeeded in planning, and his establish-
ment had executed the plans, Which had given to
American steam navigation a rank equal with the
world. He was quoted as an authority by the enter-
prising capitalists, who sought to compete with Eng-
lish progress, for his name stood high upon the list
of American mechanics. Already it was spoken with
pride, whenever the comparative merits of American
and foreign mechanical inventors formed the theme
of social converse.

Sunda -school in Prison--The Chaplain and his Conviet Congregation
---A Convict who had well earned his position refiedts-Two Deaths.
In is a Sabbath-day morning ; the streets -of the
city of Auburn give token of the solemn respect
which the great American heart pays to the day of
sacred rest. The distant church-clock strikes eight.
Coming from different parts of the, city, a number
-   of young men have been gradually approaching the
central entrance of the state prison. The ponderous
gate slowly yields to the continued pressure of the
gate-keeper. Let us enter in company with the band
of young men, and note their object. It is neither
our purpose, nor have we the inclination, to accept
the invitation extended, to join in the duties of the'
morning hour. To become a successful and efficient
Sunday-school teacher, requires early training and
large experience. He who would follow in the foot-
steps of Robert Raikes, of "Meii England,"must be-
come "wise as the serpen, adiarmless as thdove."
We have entered        isn chapel, which the
reader will doubtlessareiember, having visited it
once before. Those convicts who elect tojoin the
Sunday-school, have been taken from their cells, and
are assembled in the chapel.  The object which has
16*


87TO    GEORGE MELVILLE

GEORGE MELVXLLE.    371

caused the visit to the prison of so many young men
is now apparent. They have come to assist the con-
victs in their efforts to study the Holy Scriptures.
"Attendance upon the Sunday-school," said one of
the keepers present, answering our inquiry, "is not
compulsory."
Among the several classes, we approach one, the
members of which appear unusually interested in
the conversation of the teacher. To our astQnish-
ment, we recognize, as the convict apparently most
interested in the exercises, James Mordaunt. Our
knowledge of the man, and his earnest interest in
subjects so foreign to our appreciation of him, do not
harmpize. And yet, evidently, this must be the
feeIg awakenedin the breast of every casual visitor
to such a Sunday-school, who recognizes an acquaint-
ance among theconvicts.
The remaining half hour is full of interest, espe-
cially as devoted to speculations in regard to James
Mordaunt.- We are informed by one of the keepers
that Mordaunt only joined the Sunday-school a few
weeks since..-
Many of the convicts," said the keeper, "attend
Sunday-school to pass away the time. It is better
than staying shut up in a cell. I guess Mordatnt
don't care much about the religious part. He's been
pretty regular, though, since the first week in last
month."
When does the regularsservice commence ?"
"Pretty ,oon, now," answered thekeeper.
The bell of the prison, a short time after, was rung,
anniouning the hour for morning service. In aphort
time, the measured tread of the convicts, marching

in columns, by companies, was heard upon the stair-
case leading to the chapel.    When the convicts had
been seated, between fifty and sixty visitors were
admitted.. The audience now consisted of about seven
hundred convicts, thirty to forty keepers, and nearly a
hundred visitors; about half of the latter being ladies.
The exercises were commenced by a short, earnest
prayer, spoken by the chaplain. This was followed by
the reading of a selection from the Holy Scriptures.
To our surprise, the clergyman, taking up a hymn-
book, gave out, and read the following hymn:
"0 sinner, bring not tears alone,
Or outward form of prayer;-
But let it in thy heart be known
That penitence is there.
" To smite the breast, the clothes to rend,
God asketh not of thee:
Thy secret soul he bids thee bend
In true humility.
"Oh, let us then, with heartfelt grief,
Draw near unto our God,
And pray to him to grant relief
And stay the lifted rod.
"O righteous Judge, if thou wilt deign,
To grant us what we need,
We pray for time to turn again
And grace to turn indeed.
During the reading of! the hymn, a problem of
no little difficulty has arisen!  Who is to do the sing-
ing ? This difficulty is overcome, if not :in a style
entirely scholastic, in a manner admirably aj ros
priate to the time, place, and occasion. Far to the

4


3'72    GEORGE MELVILLE.

left, in the southwestern corner of the chapel, about
twenty convicts arise; one, evidently the leader, or
chorister, sounding his tuning fork, gives the- pitch
to his choir. Expectation, being so emphatically at
a ow ebia, the convict-choir commence their effort
toy.at well their part, under fair auspices.  Some
of "the harmony is new;j but, you have listened
to such- newness, so often, under circumstances of
greater pretence, that criticism dare'not exercise
herself.  Gradually, the sentiment of the hymn,
touching a chord in your own breast, dissipates
the curiosity aroused, and awakens a full appreci-
ation of the beautiful truth so clearly made manifest.
"Heaven's joy is greatest when the vilest sinner
repents." -This appreciation growing stronger, the
heart joins in the prayer of the concluding stanza,
with earnest humility. A prayer; another hymn;
sermon; a concluding prayer and hymn, and then
the heartfelt benediction of the worthy man of God.
Y THE GRACE OF OUR LORD JEsUs OmCHsT REST
tOx II}'ABIDE WITH YOU FOREVER. AMEN.
Th1 $evice has ended. You have admired the
preacher's style; felt his earnestness; been instructed
by his wisdom, and now desire to know him.
To what denomination of Christians does'the
chaplain belong ?"
"The Methodist," replied the keeper.
"Is it possible to make his acquaintance to-day, sit?"
"I think not. He sometimes devotes his time to.
visiting the convicts in their cells. I think he i.
teds doing so this morning," replied the keeper.
There being nothing farther to warrant visitors 'in
prolonging their stay, you retire from the prison..

The bells of the city churches are now ringing
forth a solemn peal, calling upon all of the inhabitants
to go up unto the houses of God for the morning ser-
vice.
There is held.usually but one service in this prison.
The convicts occupy the remainder of the day in
their cells. Books, of a religious character only, are
furnished to all who desire them, from the State li-
brary, attached to the prison, of which the chaplain is
the regular librarian.
The man of God, who has received         for his
flock a convict parish-can scarcely be placed in a
position of greater responsibility. The comparative
results of different workers in such an institution
show, as clearly as the full corn in the ear,. when the
field is ,ripe for the harvest. There are few places
where the triumphs of revealed truth are more effee-
tually or more satisfactorily exhibited, nor are the in-
stances of rare occurrence.
James   ordaunt, after the noon meal, retired into'
his narrow cell, bearing in his hand a copy of'Bun-
yan's Pilgrim's Progress. The pages were carefully
read, and the rich fountain of truth, so beautifully
adorned, proved to be an oasis upon the desert. The
hours passed rapidly away,until the gathering darkness
prevented him from longer distinguishing the letters.
An hour later, Mordaunt's cell was complete dark-
ened. The limits. of his walk were bounded by three
short paces from west to east, by one from north to
south, while with the hand he could strike the ceil-
ing above his head without effort. To gather in the
rays from a distant lamp, designed to light the patrol,
he was compelled to assume a stooping posture, and

' 

GEORGE MIELVILLE.


374    - GEORGE MELVILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE.    375

place a single eye at a grating, of which the inter-
spaces were about one inch, by three halves of an
inch square.
The book had long since been, of necessity, relin-
qiihed   Hour after hour of the solemn night had
p  ed away. Still James Mordaunt heeded not the
sal ir  eot upon which he nightly slept. Thought
was thoiusy. Remorse had begun to claim his flesh.
A convict's fare and a convict's habits of life were not
responsible for the failing health. Three years had
passed by, during which time the proud and haughty
villain, aided by the sophistries that so surely turn
wisdom into foolishness, had quieted conscience by
exaggerated pictures; fancy, for truth; revenge for
honest determination; the desire to possess one who
had crossed his self-esteem by refusing his hand, for
unselfish affection.
But now, nighttime and daytime were hours for the
seeds of remorse to germinate. Already unseen, they
had sprouted from a thousand parts of his flesh, and
sapped,,it up in their slow but steady growth.
" Remorse !" uttered the miserable man, as he mad-
ly struck his brow, beneath which an over-heated
brain was toiling.
"Remorse I" echoed the sharp stings of a con-
science at last awakened to a sense of guilt.
Morning came ; but when the prison bell called
the.convicts from their cells, Mordaunt heard it not.
A short time after his condition became known, he
was visited by the agent, who ordered four convicts
to his cell, accompanied by a keeper, and bearing a
litter. Upon this he was immediately removed to
the hospital. At nine o'clock, the physician of the

prison arrived. Upon due examination, he pro-
nounced Mordaunt's disease to be typhus fever.
When the clerk of the prison learned this fact, he
communicated it to Mr. Mortimer by letter. That
gentleman determined to respond to the clerk'slet-
ter by making Mordaunt a visit. He arrived at;Au-
burn three days after the receipt of the letter, which
had found him in New York.
" Good morning, Mr. Mortimer," said the clerk, as
that gentleman entered his office at the prison. "You
have called in consequence of my letter."
"How is Mordaunt ?" said Mr. Mortimer.
"No better," replied clerk.  "The opinion pre-
vails that he cannot survive."
"Has he any idea of this- himself ?" asked Mr.
Mortimer.
"Yes, sir. He has asked to see Sarah E. Graham.
By the advice of the physician, she has been notified
of his wish. She will, doubtless, arrive this after-
noon, or to-morrow morning, if able to come. She is
now with her mother. He has also expressed a de-
sire to see Mary Wilcox and his daughter."
"Then he has acknowledged them at last," said
Mr. Mortimer.
"Yes; and evidently some powerful motive has
led to this result," said the clerk.
"What is the matter with him?" asked Mr. Mor-
timer.
"Typhus fever,"-said the clerk.
"How is he this morning ?" said Mr. Mortimer.
"Out of his head," replied the clerk. "He became
flighty, yesterday morning, and has been growing
wrse. This morning he is completely prostrated;


376    GEORGE MELVILLE.

ix

seems to recognize no one. The hospital physician
has invited a council of the city physicians, which is
to convene in about half an hour."
"I am glad he has acknowledged that Mary Wil-
coe was his wife. That act of justice, although it has
come at the eleventh hour, will give great pleasure
to Mary," said Mr. Mortimer.
The council of physicians assembled soon after,
and Mr. Mortimer was invited to be present. It was
- the general opinion that he could not survive. On
the subseqent day, Sarah E. Graham arrived, accom-
panied by her mother. By the kindness of the agent,
they were permitted. to occupy a place within the
prison, in his own family.. Owing to Mordaunt's
critical position, a separate room had been assigned
to him.
Upon receiving news of his sickness, and the de-
sire he had expressed, Mary Wilcox did not hesitate
to accompany her uncle, Captain Joseph Horton, to'
Auburn. She arrived two days after Sarah Graham.
There had been no change for 'the better. Up to
.   this time, Mordaunt had been entirely unconscious
of the presence of any one in his room.
The tears of Sarah fell thick and fast. as she entered
the presence of one whom she had never ceased en-
tirely to look upon with affection. But Sarah was now,
actuated through other feelings than those inspired
by regret at .his bodily sufferings.  The idea that
James Mordaunt was apparently- about to die, with
the weight of sin upon his soul unremoved by any
sign or token of repentance, was the moving cause,
of her anguish. Sarah Graham had joined the pure
of heart in this world of trial, and had devoted hey

life to acts of kindness and benevolence. How ar-
dently she offered up her secret prayer that reason
might:return to James Mordaunt, if but for one sin-
gle hour ! In this prayer she was joined by Mary
Wilcox, who, since her divorce had dropped the
name of Mordaunt. Notwithstanding the earnest
appeals of Mary and Sarah, James Mordaunt was not
permitted again to commune with his victims. On
the eleventh daysfrom the time he was first'attacked,
he expired. His last few moments were full of terrible
agony. When every one present had supposed that
he was gone, his body suddenly became gifted with
a supernatural energy. He rose in bed, and opened
his eyes, and in a loud voice, like the commander
.upon the battle-field, said-
" Brandy 1'
Instantly a goblet of brandy was offered to him, of
which he quickly and nervously drank. Then, look-
ing fiercely upon those gathered around his bed, he
spoke again with renewed energy:
Is there a place called hell? Then I go there !"
A cold shiver ran over his frame. Once more he
gasped for breath. The sudden flush which had
accompanied this spasmodic strength as suddenly de-
parted. Sinking again upon his pillow, a terrible
tremor shook his frame, communicating with they
bedstead and the room. Once more he gasped for
breath ; but it wasa last effort. Death put an end
to his bodily sufferings. The spirit had gone before-
another tribunal. Was it that of an offended God?$
-  *    *       * -    *       *      *
Mr. Mortinier had the corpse removed to New
York, and placed in Mrs. Tryon's family vault.

GEORGE MELPILLE.     37fi


378         GEORGE MELVILL .
Six months subsequently, Mrs. Tryon followed
upon the same path, to that
" Bourn from whence no traveller returns."
She died a raving maniac in the lunatic asylum.
Mary Mordaunt, while thus a little girl, became
the sole heiress both to her father's estate and Mrs.
Tryon's. Together, they amounted to nearly half a
million. An attempt was made by some of the re-
mote heirs to interrupt Mary Mordaunt's inheritance.
It was never brought-to trial.

GEORGE MELVILI E.    3

LIII.
A Wedding-Wedding Tour-Conclusion.
LAws, suz! never did see sich nobody knowin'
nothin' sence I'se born. It's Bess here, an' Bess
thar, an' Bess ! Bess 1"
" Bess," said James.
"Git eout! now, jest, you 'tend to your own
bizness. I'se 'bout tired ov this ere doin's."
" Bess, Bess," said Frederick Mortimer.
"Yis, sir," said Bess,. as mildly as a kitten.
"What Misser Frederick want "
"Bell desires-your presence up stairs immediately,"
"Bess," said Mrs. Mortimer, "there will be four
more at dinner to-day."
"Yis 'um," said Bess, nearly in despair.
"Bess," said Mr. Mortimer, "five large glasses in
the study, and a bottle of the brown sherry. Some
ice, lemon, and sugar.
Mr. Mortimer, although a temperate man, prided
himself upon his home-made sherry cobblers.
Bess now woke up to the demands made upon
her. In a few moments she had marshalled the
servants of the house, who were all amenable to her,
and had given  to each their directions. Out of the
chaos, she soon brought order.

S


880     GEORGE MELvILLE.

GEORGE MELVILLE. .      381

"Wal, now," said Bess, "it's good this, marryin'
don't come only once in a family."
Bess evidently judged all families by Mr. Morti-
mer's; and in so doing, failed to remember that some
young ladies were blessed with rare gems in the
shape of lovely, and often lovelier sisters. However,
in this remark, Bess was sincere. She really be-
lieved marryingn only came once in a family."
In due time, the dinner-party was fully arranged.
And a grand affair Bess had determined it should be,
"All out o' kompulment to Miss Bell Mortiner,
she'd trotted on hur knee, she had." And a grand
affair it was. For the past three hours, Mr. and Mrs.
Mortimer, Mr. and Mrs. Melville, and 2Mr. and Mrs.
George Melville, had been receiving the congratula-
tions of half the county of Cayuga, besides all of
Aurora, from the highest to the lowest in the scale
of fortune; for Hon. B. F. Mortimer, like the good
olden gentlemen, a race which will never become
extinct in rural America, shook a man's hand for his
mental and moral. worth, not for his cloth ; and,
kissed a lass for her rich, sunny smile, rosy cheeks,
laughing eyes, and guileless heart, not for her
furbelows and flounces.
But now, the more select family dinner-party was
at hand. Around this board was gathered all the.
relatives and bosom friends of the Mortiner family,
a goodly host. Among the number who belonged
to ;the Melville party, were Mr. Wilham Hastings
ard his lovely bride Florence,,who looked upon the
company assembled but one short week a wife. The
A adding of George Melville and Bell Mortim
taken place that morning at Mr. Mortimer

silence. The ceremony was conducted by an octo-
genarian; one who had performed a like duty I for
Bell's parents; one who had planted' the Standard
of the Cross in the wilderness, and under the Old
School Presbyterian form  of religious faith, had
fought a good 'fight and almost finished his course.
As George and Bell knelt to receive the blessing, his'
withered hands, as they were gently laid upon their
foreheads, trembled with age; the eye, as it was
upturned to Heaven, suffused with a tear, but it was
he teardrop of a bright vision of the glorious home
.waiting him..
May the choicest blessings of the all-wise Crea-
eor follow upon the pathway of thee and thine!
Grant, oh most High, that as these thy servants shall
remember from whence flow all earthly blessings, so
peace, plenty, happiness, and bright immortality,
shall be vouchsafed unto them."
Such were the concluding words, uttered in tremu-
lous accents, which testified before men that George
Melville and Bell Mortimer were united in hand, as
they had long been in heart.
At five o'clock that afternoon, the wedding-party
started for Auburn. There they took the evening
train eastward.  The party consisted of George
Melville and his lovely bride, Mr. and Mrs. Edge-
monte, Mr. James H. Griswold, Thomas F. Griswold
and wife, Mr. and Mrs. William Hastings, Miss Mary
Melville, and Frederick Mortimer.
It had been determined that the whole party
should make a hasty trip to the points of prominent
interest in Europe. On the morning succeeding


382     GEORGE MELVILLE.

their. arrival at New York, Mr. William Hastings,
accompanied by Mr. Frederick Mortimer, while
passing down Broadway for the purpose of visiting
the ticket office of the principal line of American
ocean steamers, was accosted by a gentleman, evi-
dently an old acquaintance.
"Ali! Mr. Hastings! Good morning," said the
gentleman.
"Good morning," returned Hastings, with a smile
of pleasure.
" I perceive by the marriage lists, Mr. Hastings,
that you are no longer a free man in this great
Republic."
"The. marriage lists, my dear sir, tell a truthful
tale," returned Hastings.
"What.is to become of your business matters ?"
" Oh, they must jog on without reins for a few
months, while I take a short respite in Europe," said
Hastings.
"Then, you must allow me the pleasure of present-
ing you with a free pass to and from Liverpool on my
line of steamers, as you are, doubtless, aware one of
them is the first to sail. No words, sir. It is my bridal
present to the lovely Mrs. Hastings, upon whom I
shall make it my duty, privilege, etc., to call this
afternoon. Where is she holding levee ?"
"At the St. Nicholas Hotel; but I cannot allow
you to call upon her alone."
"Afraid to trust the new wife with an old friend'
who might be your -father? Hastings! Hastings 1"
"NQ, no ! not that, my dear sir. You are too fast.
You will find a large party at the hotel, all looking
eastward across the Atlantic."

"Who are they, sir ?" inquired the gentleman.
" Mr. and Mrs. Edgemonte," said Hastings.
"Ain't afraid to face them.  Edgemonte is an
honest man, and his wife-never mind. I knew her
at sixteen."
" Mr. James H. Griswold," continued Hastings.
"Has the best credit of any merchant in New
York. Catfish: Railroad stock came out all right.
Is worth half a million, and lends me any amount I
want when the money market is close. Guess I can
stand under his batteries. .Anybody else ?"
"Thomas F. Griswold and Clara, his beautiful and
accomplished"
"Wife, sir !-wife! trotted her a baby on my knee,
and kissedher when she vowed to love, honor, and--
didn't hear the, obey. Who else ?"
" Mrs. William Hastings "--
" Of course, Mr. Hastings ; unless you see fit to
put up the bars and keep an old friend out of the
field in a fit of young-husband-jealousy. Who is to
wind up the party?$"
"Miss Mary Melville and Mr. Frederick Morti-
mer."
"Molly Melville, of Edgartown ?"
"Yes," replied Hastings.
"I shall ask George Melville, who planned and
built the machinery for my new steamship, to intro-
duce me to her, if he ever returns to business. I've
called on him twenty times, and his partner, Carter,
saysahe thinks he has deserted the city for good. But
who is this Mr. Frederick Mortimer? dare 'saysome
one full of nonsense, who wants to marry Molly Mel
ville. He can't get her "

GEORGE MELVILLE*   - 383


GEORGE MELVILLE.   385

284

GEORGE MELVILL.

"Allow me to interrupt you, my dear sir, and let
Mr. Mortimer speak for. himself," said Hastings, as
soon as he could speak, with a very wicked twinkle
about the eye, introducing Frederick Mortimer to his
friend, as the son of the Hon. B. F. Mortimer.
"Laugh--no use ! You have not caught me. I
know Mortimer, too. Ben Mortimer and I have had
some hard fights, shoulder to shoulder, in Washing-
ton, alto let American enterprise have a fair oppor-
tunity to make headway, and assert her ability .to
compete with the tough mariners of old England.
Never mind-the thick-headed policy of some legis-
lators, sooner or later, will lead them out where King
Nebuchadnezzar went and remained seven years; or,
as angry Jonathan Slick expressed it, 'they wi1 all
go to grass.' Well, I can face the chip oftthe old
Mortimer. block, if he will let me," said Hastings'
friend. "That's all the leaven in the batch, is it ?
"Not quite !" said Hastings.
"Who else, then? come! I'm getting warm after
my long speech on American ocean navigation
policy."
"'The man you have called on twenty times at his'
office is there," said Hastings.
"'George Melville ?"
"Yes !" replied Hastings, with a smile.
"Then I am going there, anyhow. Any one else ?
asked his friend. "Come! I'm getting almost des-
prate.
"Bell Mortimer-that was," said Hastings.
"Bell Mortimer that was? And who is Dell Mor-
timer that is, pray ?"
"Mrs. George Melville."

"Whew !" and Hastings' friend gave a whistle of
most immoderate length. Then, turning on his heel,
assuming a very sober countenance, and putting on
some pseudodignified manners, he nodded to the two
young men, very stiffly. "Tell your party that my
new steamship sails day after to-morrow at 12, &amp;.,
precisely, for Liverpool. Tell them they go as my
guests'; that the ship is at their service; and, that I
would like an invitation to accompany the party.
That's all. I sha'n't call at the St. Nicholas until I
receive the invitation. George Melville !-married !
Built my best machinery! Splendid fellow! Good
mechanic! Ain't a fool!-. Got a good wife! Ben
Mortimer's got to go, too !" And down Broadway
posted this citizen ocean sovereign-a man to whose
energies, industry, and enterprise, the whole Ameri-
can nation owes a debt which can only be paid when
the green-sward covers his form. On the spot which
shall hold his remains will be kindled a spark that
shall inflame the pride of true Americans, to emulate
his fame, as they contemplate the moral and prac-
tical worth of his deeds:
The invitation to call at the St. Nicholas was duly
forwarded, and the commands of Hastings' friend to
be at pier No. -, on the North River, at 12, M., on
the Saturday following, were obeyed. Hon. B. F.
Mortimer and wife accepted the invitation, and joined
the party, just as the noble vessel was about to leave
her pier. When fairly in the stream, her loud-boom-
ing ordnance bade farewell to:the thousands assem-
bled on the wharf to witness the departure of the
magnificent craft.
Here we take leave of these estimable friends,


386     GEORGE MELVILLE.

begging to add but a single paragraph that we may
complete this history.
*      *      *       *,     *      *
Mary Wilcox was not one. to forget those who had
helped her in need., To force ari act of justice, Sarah
E. Graham had perilled her life, and sacrificed that
beauty of form and feature, which are prizes of rich
value to the true woman. Sarah resisted every effort
made by Mary Wilcox, to repay her kindness. At
last, Mary,. by the assistance of J. S. Taylor and
.Thomas F. Griswold, Esquires, who had become part-
ners in the legal profession, settled upon Sarah an
estate of twenty-five thousand dollars. .Sarah has
devoted her life to acts of kindness and benevolence
in emulation of the example of the good Samaritan.
Frederick Mortimer is so fearful that he cannot
obtain any one equal to his lost Bell, that he studiously
avoids committing matrimony ; and matri-money he
is above attempting.
THE END.

N EW             MUSIC.
HO! THE DEEP.
WORDS BY ALLEN N. LEET, Ja
Price 25 Cents.
SPIRIT OF THE ISLAND HOME.
WORDS BY C. H. S.
Price 25 Cents.
Two very pretty Songs frgn "GEORGE MELVILLE ;" the
latter one is founded on the well-known Indian tradition
from which the Islands, Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket,
derive their names. The conception supposes that the
spirits of the Indian girls, Martha and Nancy, are still hover-
ing over their island homes; that they may be seen in moon-
light, talking to the waves of old ocean, which bring nmes-
sages of their absent lovers.
1


2              New Musical Publications--
SISTER SPIRITSTAY NOT HERE.
WORDS WRITTEN ON THE DEATH OF MISS H. A. i.
BY C.fH. S.
We think this last so truly beautiful, that we give place to
the first and third of the four verses:
FIRST VERSE.
"See, an angel flying, flying,
Father, mother, brother,' dear;
Hark! his-voice is sighing, sighing,
'Sister spirit, stay not here.'
Dearest father, I must leave thee,
With the angel fly away;
Dearest father, cease to grieve thee,
Oh, I would no longer stay.

Clark &amp;   Co., Appletons' Building.

3

WILD WOOs LULLABY.'
WORDS BY FRANCES H. GREEN.
A beautiful gem of a song, taken by permission from an
unpublished novel.
ATKAJI
FROM SHAHMAH--IN PRESS.
THE MUSIC D ED ICA TED BY -P EBR MISSION TO T HE

HUTO H INSON P A1VLILYW

THIRD VERSE.

"Vision? no, we're going, going,
Now the angel speaks to me ;
'For thy trust while sowing, sowing,
Sister spirit, thou art free.'
Oh! a crown within the portal,
Held by hands so pure and white ;
Brother dear, its gems immortal,
Shine with rays of matchlesslight."

The slaves of Borneo and Central Africa call the-document
of freedom-or as we would say, free papers-Atkah.
W. R. C. CLARK            Co.,
PUBLISHERS OF BOOKS AND MUSIC
APPLETONS' BUILDING, 346 &amp; 348 BROADWAY,
NEW YORK


ANNOUNCEMENTS OF NEW MUSIC.
The following will be issued s'on:
BALLANAFAD SCHOTTISH.
YANKEE DOODLE WITH VARIATIONS.
This decidedly American piece is arranged by an American
author, and has been played by him before large audiences,
at various times, and always received with great enthusiasm
and applause.
The music of all the foregoing is by C. HATCH SMIT, a
gentleman well known as a musical composer of high order.
In Preparation.
A New- Work by the author of "GEORGE MELVILLE.
We R. 0. CLARK &amp; Co.,
PUBLISHERS OF BOOKS AND MUSIC,
APPLETONS' BUILDING, 346 &amp; 348 ERoADwAY,
NEW YORK.
When inconvenient to order through local dealers, any of
the above will be sent by mail, postage paid, upon receipt of
price.

AN OUTSIDE VIEW OF AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS,
AND THE MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
A. Book of extraordinary power and interest will soon be
published in this city, entitled
SHAHYIAH IN PURSUIT OF FREEDOM;
OR,
THE BRANDED HAND.
That an instinctive love of freedom is inhaled in the very
atmosphere of mountainous countries, will not be questioned by
any~ close observer of mankind; it, therefore, is not surprising
that there should exist a race, even among the mountainous por-
tions of Algeria, which should furnish owu earnest seeker after
a true freedom.
Shahmah was not only a superior. specimen of his race, but
such an enthusiast had he become.in his admiration of freedom,
that he early resolved to make it the study of his life.  During
his collegiate studies, having formed the acquaintance of an
American gentleman who kindly furnished him with a copy of
the Declaration of American Independence, and .gave him a
glowing description of the beauties of our "Free Institutions,"
he at once resolved to visit our land, in order to become inti-
mately acquainted with the interior working of a system founded
on such a perfect basis.
In his straightforward simplicity of character and earnestness
of purpose, he of course finds great difficulty in reconciling his
preconceived. opinions with the manners and customs of the
country ; but his is not a heart to faint at the appearance of
apparent obstacles, and while he sees things as they are,,he does
not lose his faith in the possibilities of the future.
There is a freshness about his narrative that none but a highly
gifted mind, from his peculiar standpoint, could attain, rendering
the book extremely fascinating to the lover of;romance, while it
affords the deepest study to the philosopher, and opens a rich
field of prophecy to the lover of his race.
In short, it is a book that will touch the hearts of the people,
and will have its Ahousands of readers and admirers.


  
             
         
       
   
