
    ----CITATION----
        Shelton-MacKenzie, Adelheid.. Aureola, or, The Black Sheep .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7171
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               AUREOLA. 
             
          
          
             
             
               AUREOLA; 
               OR, THE BLACK SHEEP. 
               A Story of German Social Life. 
             
            BY MRS. ADELHEID SHELTON-MACKENZIE. AUTHOR OF "MARRIED AGAINST REASON." 
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER,  
                     819 & 821 MARKET STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1871. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 
            
               STEREOTYPED BY J. FAGAN & SON.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENT 
             
               CHAPTER I. A GERMAN KAFFEE-VISIT. 13
                
               CHAPTER II. IN TIME. 21
                
               CHAPTER III. THE BLACK SHEEP. 29
                
               CHAPTER IV. RECEIVING SOME INFORMATION. 39
                
               CHAPTER V. A MORNING WALK. 48
                
               CHAPTER VI. THE SLEIGH-RIDE. 57
                
               CHAPTER VII. AN EXCURSION. 69
                
                
               CHAPTER VIII. OLD JACOB'S ADVICE. 77
                
               CHAPTER IX. TORMENTING. 88
                
               CHAPTER X. FOR ONE YEAR. 97
                
               CHAPTER XI. CLEARING HIS MOTHER'S ROOM. 107
                
               CHAPTER XII. SORE HEARTS. 113
                
               CHAPTER XIII. A PROPOSAL. 122
                
               CHAPTER XIV. IN STACHELBERG. 128
                
               CHAPTER XV. THE LAST HOPE GONE. 134
                
               CHAPTER XVI. RETURNED. 140
                
               CHAPTER XVII. ACTED UPON. 153
                
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. A FATHER'S CONFESSION. 159
                
               CHAPTER XIX. SUSPENSE. 195
                
               CHAPTER XX. THE CORD SEVERED. 205
                
               CHAPTER XXI. AT LAST. 213
                
               CHAPTER XXII. REUNITED. 221
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. CARL WALDHEIM AND HIS FAMILY. 229
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. THE WORLD'S OPINION. 245
                
               CHAPTER XXV. THE WEDDING. 249
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. AFTER THE WEDDING. 255
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Aureola, or, The black sheep 
             
             
            AUREOLA. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               A GERMAN KAFFEE-VISIT. 
               "COME in," called a gentle voice. 
               "Good evening, Frau Stadtshultheissin.
                     Frau Stadtshultheissin, Mrs. Mayor; Frau Hofrthin, Mrs. Courtcouncillor; Kaffee-visit, Coffee-party. In Germany the wife is always addressed by her husband's title.
                   The Frau Hofrthin sends her compliments, and begs to have the pleasure of your company for next Monday, to a Kaffee-visit." 
               "My regards to your mistress, and I do myself the honor of accepting, her invitation." 
               "Who was here, mamma?" asked a young lady, now entering the room. 
               "The servant of Frau Hofrthin Brenner, to invite me for next Monday." 
                
               "Then you must order a new cap for this occasion." 
               "What for, child? I have three, almost quite new. I have worn none of them more than three times. They are all of the finest Valenciennes lace." 
               "No matter, mamma; those will do for other occasions. For this you must have a new one, and I shall go at once to Madame Binder to order it. How about gloves? Are you well provided with that article?" 
               "Caroline, you would waste a fortune on me. You know that I have all, and much more than I need, in point of dress." 
               "Only in point of dress, mamma? Now this is not quite fair!" and the young girl threw her arms lovingly around her mother's neck. 
               "I have all I wish for, my dear. But really-about this cap-" 
               "Not a word more; I go this instant. You old darling, do you not know that I wish to see you look more handsome than all the others who will be there?" 
               "Well, well, have your way, as in all things, you tyrant." And Mrs. Gutmann followed with loving looks the retreating form of her only daughter. 
               "How beautiful you look, mamma! really quite young. Not a wrinkle on your fair skin, nor a silver thread in your dark hair; and your eyes are as bright as if you were a young girl. Look in the glass, and see whether you cannot admire your beautiful cap of finest lace. Look at your collar to match, and the dainty ruffles around your wrists, peeping like frostwork beneath the sleeves; and then, the folds of your black silk fall superbly. Indeed, you are fit to go to a wedding! Here is your reticule. I have put your knitting in it. Now, your shawl; and then, your gloves. Give me a kiss, and then you must go, for it is two o'clock. Be sure to bring home much news; for, you know, a Kaffee-visit is the very well of scandal. There, do not hold up your hands in horror. I say only what every one knows, and I do not mean it as reproach; on the contrary, I think it a delightful occupation. Now go." So Mrs. Gutmann departed. 
               She had left the house only a few minutes when her husband entered. 
               "Now, sir, where have you been? You missed a great treat: mamma went just now, and I can tell you, she looked well-very well indeed." 
               "That is what your mother always does. She was a beautiful girl when I knew her first, much more so than you, Miss," with a gentle pinch of her ear. A slight grimace was the only answer, while a glance in the large mirror, which reached from the floor to the ceiling, showed her that she need not be dissatisfied with what nature had done for herself. 
               "Well, puss, I suppose we have to take our coffee alone. Ring for it, please." 
               While one servant brought, on a silver waiter, two cups of rare china, and another carried the coffee in an urn, Caroline helped her father to put on his dressing-gown, brought his slippers, drew an easy-chair to the table, gave him his pipe, which she had filled at a side-table, and, having handed him a burning match, sat down to pour out the cheering beverage. 
               "Any news, papa?" 
               "None, except what I read in the newspapers. I have been in the reading-room of the club-house, and there, as you know, it is not allowed to speak except in a whisper, for every one is reading. One hears nothing but the rustle of turning leaves and an occasional low inquiry after this or that paper or magazine." 
               While father and daughter thus chatted over their afternoon coffee, Mrs. Gutmann had reached Mrs. Brenner's house. At the entrance she met Mrs. Fisher, wife of a rich merchant in Seefeld, and, as the mayor of a city stands higher in rank than a merchant, no matter how wealthy the latter may be, there ensued a short dispute as to which of the two ladies should take precedence in entering. 
               "Pray, Mrs. Fisher, walk in." 
               "No, I beg of you, Frau Stadtshultheissin, to go in." 
               "Do not stand upon ceremony, Mrs. Fisher." 
               "I could not think of it." 
               "Well, then, not to delay any longer, and as you insist"-and the Frau Stadtshultheissin entered. Woe to Mrs. Fisher if she had done so first! 
               The table was superbly laid out. All kinds of delicacies were spread upon it. Many of the guests were already sitting around it, busily plying their knitting-needles. Mrs. Brenner assisted in receiving the entering ladies. 
               At last all were assembled. The table was full, and the daughter of the house commenced pouring out the coffee, serving it around, while her mother offered the cake to her guests. (Servants are on these occasions entirely dispensed with.) Between the sips of the small cups, and the tasting of the "Kuchen" (cake), a sharp volley of small talk was kept up, such as inquiring for the different members of the family of each lady present. After the table was cleared of the first course, rich tarts, dainty confectioneries, and costly wines were served up instead, and the fingers were again industriously occupied with knitting; then the tongues recommenced their lively play, and every one tried to supply the company with the latest news. 
               "So, old Mr. Waldheim is dead at last," said the hostess. 
               "Dead?" echoed several voices, in becoming astonishment. 
               "Yes; this morning. Poor old man, he must have been nearly seventy years of age. He had very little enjoyment of his vast wealth. I wonder whether his son came in time to see him alive?" 
               "Wilhelm Waldheim was a great source of sorrow to his father," remarked one of the ladies. 
               "Indeed he was," acquiesced Mrs. Brenner. "Ever since he was a boy of twelve years old he did nothing but mischief, and it is not likely that, as a man, he will be much better. He must be near thirty now." 
                
               "Perhaps he has done sowing his wild oats," put in a charitably inclined guest. 
               "It is to be hoped so, at all events," said another; "and that he will settle down at last, giving up his roaming in foreign countries. Nice notions and customs he must have acquired in his wandering and unsteady life! He ought to be very handsome, for both his father and mother were extremely well-looking." 
               "The funeral will be next Sunday afternoon," said the hostess. "It will be, undoubtedly, a very large one, for Mr. Waldheim was generally esteemed and liked." 
               Other news was now brought forward, and dead Mr. Waldheim was put, for the present, in the background. Some other family matters were discussed, becomingly criticized, and conscientiously commented on. This girl's character was taken in pieces, and that one's goings-on closely inspected, until the fair inquisitors had no more to say; and then the party broke up, thanking the hostess for the very pleasant afternoon they had spent, and hoping soon to have the pleasure of seeing her in their houses. 
               Mrs. Gutmann was greeted at her return with: "Now, mamma, out with it! I am dying with curiosity. What is the news?" 
                
               "First of all, my dear, since you are so impatient-Mr. Waldheim is dead." 
               "What?" exclaimed Mr. Gutmann; "and his son-is he back?" 
               "I do not know." 
               "Has he a son, papa?" 
               "Yes; a daring fellow, but as intelligent as one would wish to meet with; generous, to a fault; but wild, devilishly wild-as report says. That, however, will wear off, when he once settles down." 
               "I did not hear a very good report of him," said Mrs. Gutmann. 
               "Pshaw! women's talk-nothing more. What do they know about him? I knew Wilhelm when he was a boy: to be sure, I have seen him only once since he has grown up, but I would bet my head that he will turn out a capital fellow, when he once comes home to stay among us." 
               "Is he handsome, papa?" 
               "A girl's question!" laughed her father. "Wait, until you see him." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               IN TIME. 
               BEFORE an elegant house, in the most fashionable street in Seefeld, a carriage halted. Before the coachman had time to jump from his seat the door was hastily opened, and a gentleman of very foreign aspect alighted. His tall and stately figure was wrapped in a long, wide travelling-coat, of dark material. His long black hair fell down in wavy masses upon his shoulders. The flashing, proud eye of gray was shaded by long, dark lashes. Bushy brows of black gave the whole countenance an expression of command; while the deeply bronzed complexion, combined with the flowing beard and well-kept mustache, might lead to the supposition that he was an Italian. 
               The entrance of the house was open, and, having given some orders to the driver, the gentleman quickly entered. Meeting an old servant in the hall, he said: 
               "How do you do, Jacob? Am I in time? How is my father?" 
               "Passing away, quickly, Mr. Wilhelm. I am glad you have come: Mr. Waldheim is constantly asking for you." 
               Wilhelm Waldheim-for it was he-gave hat and coat to the servant; and, mounting the broad, massive staircase, stopped before a folding door. He halted a little, and then entered his father's bed-room. Crossing the inlaid and beautifully polished floor noiselessly, he stood beside the dying man's bedside. Bending down, he said, in a low tone: "Father, am I in time?" 
               "My boy, my son!" and the once fiery eyes flashed up once more for joy, and the weak voice grew strong again, while the almost cold hands clasped those of the young man in a feeble grasp. 
               Looking at him long and lovingly, he asked: "How many years is it, Wilhelm, since I last saw you?" 
               "Almost nine, father;" and there was regret in his voice, which did not escape the dying man. 
               "Do not grieve, Wilhelm; you have not been a bad son; and although we have not seen very much of each other, it was more my fault than yours. I knew that if I had let you know how lonely I sometimes felt, and how often I longed for you, you soon would come to stay with me; but my opinion was that young men must see the world-and the more of it, the better. It is not good for them to be too much at home. Another reason for having you away so long, was my fear that, had you been at home, your poor mother would have spoilt you: you were her only one; and for that matter, I do not know whether I myself should have been a better hand in bringing you up. Therefore, I thought the best would be to have you away at school. Later, when you expressed a wish to travel, I did not think it would harm you to gratify your inclination. As I grew older, I often wished to have you with me; but what could you have done here? You enjoyed yourself, as your frequent letters told me; and I suppressed my selfish wishes, leaving you where you were happy-thinking that it would be time enough for you to come home to see the last of me." 
               A sob interrupted the speaker. "Father, father, do not speak thus; your loving consideration unmans me. You have been always kind and forbearing, while I was thinking only of my own pleasure." 
               "I had to tell you this, my boy," Mr. Waldheim continued, his voice growing weaker; "for you might have supposed that I did not care sufficiently for you to have you with me. But, Wilhelm, if you only knew how constantly you were present in my mind! And now, my son, my breath comes shorter, and I must hurry with what I have to say. I have made a will." 
               "Father!" 
               "Yes, yes;" and the voice grew fainter from exhaustion-"no blame to you, Wilhelm, it is for-the best-believe me." 
               "I have been extravagant and careless, in money matters, I know; but, father, think of the disgrace this will be to me. Here, where no parent ever makes a will, except on very particular provocation-if a child has disgraced himself, if there are no near relations, or such like cases-" 
               "You misunderstand me, my boy-oh! I can no more-I am dying. Wilhelm, it is a matter I leave-to your honor: give him-fifty thousand gulden; promise, my son-promise. You must-you must find the tin box-" 
               The lips kept moving, but no sound issued. The eyes were looking beseechingly into Wilhelm's, and their expression was so painful, so plainly wishing to receive some assurance from the young man, that, although he was in entire ignorance of the meaning of those broken sentences, he said, putting his mouth close to his father's ear; "I will try all I can to find out the meaning of your words. I promise you, father." 
               A look of relief came into the dying man's eyes, and Wilhelm thought he noticed a faint smile of satisfaction play around his lips. 
               The lips closed, the breath came slower, the hand he held grew cold-a few minutes more, and-Mr. Waldheim was dead. 
               The son sat by the bedside, he knew not how long, holding the icy hand of the deceased tenderly in his. With mingled feelings of grief and remorse, he looked upon the still form of him who, in life, had so unselfishly cared for him-longing in his old age for his company, yet suppressing that wish for his son's benefit. And he-Wilhelm-never once had he thought, in his pleasures and amusements, that the old father at home might be lonely, and pining for his presence. Repeatedly he pressed the now stiffening fingers to his lips; and folding the hands reverently upon the breast-now at rest for ever-he passed silently from the room. 
               In the hall he encountered old Jacob, who, with tears in his honest eyes, came to persuade him to take some refreshments, as he must be in need of them, having travelled so far. Wilhelm consented, feeling faint and weary, from want of rest and food. 
               Again left to himself, his thoughts resumed another turn, bringing back to him the strange, incoherent words his dying father had spoken, evidently in great anxiety to be understood, and in agony at perceiving that he was unable to explain his meaning. He pictured to himself the entreating, almost pleading look of the dark eyes, and the faint smile and pleased expression of the closing orbs when he gave the promise to make out the meaning of the unfinished sentences. He thought-but in vain. He was expected to give fifty thousand gulden to some one: but to whom? A male-this much he knew; but neither his name, his age, nor his whereabouts. It must be a debt of honor; but, if so; why had his father not paid it long ago? He certainly had had the money to do so. He also had spoken of a tin box. Where could he find it? He resolved to search for it this very night; for that box, he had no doubt, contained the explanation his father was unable to give. Then the will! Here was another puzzle. How would it be construed by the world? and why had one been made at all? That he, Wilhelm, would give handsomely to the servants, and not let himself be found niggardly in that respect, his father must have known well enough. The deceased certainly had not any intention of disgracing his child, or else he would not, in his last moments, have spoken as he had. There must, therefore, be another cause. Wilhelm chafed inwardly at the thought how people would judge, if it got noised about. All his thinking, however, could not alter the case, and he resolved to let everything have its course: people's talk would stop of itself. What would it matter if he should be a nine-days' wonder? He need not care-and would show that he did not. 
               His search proved wholly unsatisfactory; for although he emptied drawers and boxes, opened desks and closets, searched bureaus and shelves, his attempt to discover a clue to his father's words were in vain. Therefore he intended to leave it to time and chance, and his own ever-watchful eye, to notice every little incident that might turn up to unravel the mystery. 
                
               If the knowledge that his father had made a testament puzzled Wilhelm, the will itself, after having been opened and read, astonished him still more. 
               "I, Carl Wilhelm Waldheim, being in perfect health of mind and body, bequeath all my property, real and personal, to my beloved son, Carl Wilhelm Waldheim." This was the will, with no other clause, nor codicil. And, for all Wilhelm knew, it might have been left undone; as by law every thing would have come to him, will or no will. Why, then, did his father make one? A mere freak, he suggested to his lawyer; and that worthy shrugged his shoulders, and said he supposed it could have been nothing else. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE BLACK SHEEP. 
               CAROLINE GUTMANN was pointed out, in her circle, as "the Black Sheep." But she was not thus designated for a vicious disposition, badness of character, want of womanliness or lady-like behavior, or for being in any way deficient in intellect, gentleness, or goodness of heart. No; it was simply for having the courage to set her face defiantly against such customs of the country as she considered absurd; for acting as she felt, and for speaking as she thought; for expressing her opinion, when there was occasion, without any regard to person, station, or rank; for confessing boldly that she respected nothing but goodness and old age; but, as for bowing slavishly before the shrine of Custom, or submitting meekly to foolish rules of Society-these were things she would know nothing of. Let those be slaves to them who chose-she would be free! with her spirit unfettered by bonds so absurdly valued. People might speak of her, point her out, comment on her actions-she would not grudge them that pleasure, but would even willingly provide them with themes for their beloved Kaffee-visiten. 
               Besides this first title she had yet another, more pleasing and much more appropriate. She was often called "Aureola," (Ray of Gold,) and well she deserved this beautiful pet name, given to her by those who knew, loved, and admired her, although they might condemn her opinions. 
               Of surpassing loveliness, Caroline took hearts by storm, when the radiant vision presented itself before them; for, who could withstand the glance of her glorious eyes of heavenly blue, shaded by those long, golden lashes? who could look unmoved upon the sylphlike form, with motions of such perfect grace and elegance, or see her hair, rippling over her shoulders, shining like a network of purest gold, framing, as it were, her lovely face in a ray of gold? The transparent skin, as fair as snow, and as smooth as satin; the delicate flush, that dyed the dimpled cheek; the expressive mouth, around which smiles ever lingered; and the rounded chin, upon which, as we say, an angel had pressed his finger-who could behold all these charms and not become influenced, and won over to the side of the fair enchantress? The expression of her countenance, ever varying from mirth and mischief to tender, coaxing entreaty, from resolute decision to flashing sunshine, conquered and won the day in every battle; and thus it ever came to pass that Caroline Gutmann had her own way with young and old, with sad and gay. Most of all, however, with her parents, who, loving her with adoration, lavished upon her all that their vast wealth could afford, and, although often grieved by what they called her wrong ideas of what was proper and prudent, could never long hold out with their displeasure; and this the spoiled darling well knowing, took cruel advantage of the weakness of the parents whom she, in turn, also loved so dearly. 
               She was perfectly conscious of her beauty, and laughingly called it her "power." She rejoiced at it, and spoke of it freely, answering, when reproved: "She would admire a beautiful picture just as much-in fact, everything thing that was lovely; therefore could not see the sense of not being allowed to express her approval, for the mere reason that it was exclusively her own property. What difference could it make?" She would conclude her argument: "Others think it, and I-say it." Affectation was as foreign to her nature as light is to night. Young gentlemen, bewitched by her beauty, who sometimes so far forgot themselves as to pay her empty compliments, she frightened into embarrassing confusion, by coldly asking them "whether they did not know something new, as she was tired of stale phrases and praises?" 
               One afternoon, early in autumn, Caroline had gone out, after dinner, to take a walk. She usually remained out, at these occasions, not longer than an hour. This time, however, it struck two-half-past, and still she had not returned. A heavy rain had come on quite unexpectedly, and her mother had begun to feel uneasy. The servant had brought in the afternoon Kaffee, and the weather was clearing again. Mr. Gutmann and his wife were sitting at the table, commenting on their daughter's unwonted absence, when the door opened, and in she stepped, with smiles wreathing her face and sunshine dancing in her eyes. 
                
               "Such an adventure, mamma! This rain was the luckiest thing that ever could have happened. Oh, dear! how I enjoyed myself-paying a visit to Mr. Waldheim." A mischievous twinkle in her eye showed that she was prepared for, a storm, and meant to weather it. "Not a drop upon my hat," she continued, going up and looking at herself in the pier-glass. "How fortunate! this shade of green is so easily soiled." 
               "What do you mean, Caroline?" asked her father, in stern displeasure. "Have done with your hat and ribbon, and explain your words about visiting Mr. Waldheim. You do not know the young gentleman at all! how can you speak of having visited him? What new disgraceful trick is this?" 
               "My dear child!" said the gentle voice of her mother. 
               "Goodness, papa, where do you fancy yourself?" spoke the courageous little witch, all the while watching his countenance in the mirror, and laughing inwardly at the gathering frowns, and the volumes of smoke which he blew vigorously into the air, and which were a sure sign of a brewing storm. "You are not in your court-house, to exhibit your magisterial dignity, nor have you an unfortunate wretch of a felon before you in the dock, to vent your just displeasure on. See," she continued, turning round, "what you have done-how you have frightened poor mamma!" (the little hypocrite!) "Do not look so beseechingly, darling: there, drink your coffee, while it is hot, and I shall sit down and tell you my adventure. To you, dear-not to papa, who so cruelly frightened you." 
               They did not utter another word, knowing too well that they should hear nothing at all if they persisted, and that their daughter would have her own way. 
               "There, papa, I forgive you. You did not mean it, after all;" and she held out one of her dimpled hands toward him; and he, unable to resist the smiling look, took it as a peace-offering, shaking his head, however, as a sign that he did so under protest. 
               "I walked down the 'Graben,'" she began, "thinking of nothing particular, except how beautiful the gardens looked, and how this bed of flowers might be made to look still more handsome, or how that vine might be bent to more advantage-when I felt a drop, and then another. I went faster; but before I had gone ten steps more, it commenced to pour. Seeing a house-door open, I jumped in at hazard. Not knowing upon whose property I had so unceremoniously alighted, I peeped out again, and knew, then, that it was Mr. Wilhelm Waldheim's house. I resolved to keep as quiet as a mouse; and as soon as the rain would be over, make my escape, unnoticed. But intentions sometimes run counter to deeds, as proved in this case. A door, facing the hall, opened, and out of it came a tall, proud-looking gentleman, dark as a gypsy, with flashing eyes, and clad in a magnificent dressing-gown of black satin, lined with red silk. A smoking-cap to match sat lightly upon his wavy, dark, long hair; and on his hand, in which he held a cigar, sparkled a costly emerald solitaire. I knew at once whom I had before me. He looked as like old Mr. Waldheim as any young person can resemble an old one. There I had the advantage of Wilhelm Waldheim-for he it was; and it was the most amusing sight to witness the look of surprise that passed over his handsome face; but only for a moment: for then he recovered himself; and advancing with elegant ease toward where I stood, addressed me. And now, mamma, I will give you our whole conversation, just as it was. 
               "'Frulein, let me invite you into a room. The hall is not a suitable place for a lady. I suppose I have to thank the heavy rain for the pleasure of your visit?' 
               "'You have judged rightly, Mr. Waldheim; for I presume I am speaking to the master of the house?' A bow acknowledged that I was right. 'These showers are enemies to ribbons, lace, and feathers, and as I saw the entrance open, I took the liberty of seeking refuge in this hall.' 
               "'You do me honor; but heighten it, by allowing me to show you my picture gallery. Last week I received my paintings from abroad; for, as I intend living henceforth at home, I had written for them. Do pictures interest you, Frulein?' 
               "'Most certainly; and I accept your kind proposal with pleasure.' And then, mamma, when we were passing through the long gallery, looking at this picture and admiring that, inquiring and explaining by turns-all my dignity gave way at once, when I pictured to myself the hands raised in horror, the mournful shake of heads and false curls, if it should come out that I had been to look at Mr. Waldheim's pictures, with nobody but old Jacob now and then coming in to put some question to his young master. What new fuel had I added to the fire, burning already so brightly upon the altar of public opinion! So, interrupting Mr. Waldheim in a really very interesting description of some particular painting-I burst out in a peal of laughter!" 
               "How could you, Caroline? How very shocking! and-" 
               "There, that will do! I told myself all this, and much more; but nothing availed me-not even Mr. Waldheim's well-bred look of wonder could sober me down-until I was quite exhausted, and had taken a seat near the window. Then, after wiping away the tears which my laughing-spell had pressed out, I went up to him, looking as penitently as a punished child, and said: 'Thousand pardons for my apparent rudeness, Mr. Waldheim;' and I had much to do not to burst out again; and he must have noticed my struggle, for he smiled. 'If you knew the reason why I startled you in so unladylike a manner, you would perhaps have joined me in my mirth. Later, if you remain here, as you say is your intention, and perchance remember this afternoon, you may know why I behaved in such an undignified manner. You do not know who I am: if you think it worth while to inquire, you will be told that they call me "the Black Sheep."' His good-breeding availed him nothing this time, papa, I can tell you; for he fairly started back, gazing at me in blank astonishment. But I nodded saucily with my head, saying: 'Yes, Mr. Waldheim, this is one of my names.' 
               "Goodness gracious, child, what sort of an impression must you have made?" exclaimed her mother. 
               "Who cares? Judging from the expression of his face, however, it could not have been a very bad one, although I confess that I tried very hard to shock him. You see, mamma, I may dare much." And the look she threw into the glass explained her meaning. 
               "'You must be joking, Frulein,' said Mr. Waldheim; 'this name could not be applied to you. You should be called "Ray of Gold."' 
               "'Exactly, Mr. Waldheim; that is one of my other names: they call me "Aureola." And now, as the rain has ceased, I must say good-by, and many thanks for your kind attention.' 
               "He followed me into the hall, where we encountered old Jacob, ready to open the door for me. 'Good-by, Jacob,' I said. 
               "'I wish you a good evening, Frulein Gutmann.' 
               "I glanced back, and saw his face light up with pleased intelligence, returning my mocking smile with a deferential bow." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               RECEIVING SOME INFORMATION. 
               TO say that Wilhelm Waldheim was astonished, would express his feelings but slightly. Bewildered, he stood gazing at the door that had shut upon the fair vision. "Who was she? What was she?" He was not a very young man, for he was close upon thirty, and not easily impressed, for he had travelled far and near, through north and south, west and east; had met women, beautiful and fair, simple and artful, gentle and passionate, learned and ignorant, and yet never before had one crossed his path like this dazzling creature of to-day. With childlike simplicity, she seemed to draw one on, entreating to shield and protect her from all harm, yet demanding, by her womanly dignity and self-possession, the respect and devotion of a queen; twining herself, as it were, by her winning gentleness of manner, around one's heart; while, by one flash of her glorious eyes, she audaciously and proudly seemed to be superior to the protection her subjects were so willing to grant. 
               Wilhelm Waldheim turned at last and entered his study. There he sat for a long time, trying to recollect the words she had spoken. Her sudden burst of mirth still rang in his ears, and he could picture to himself the expression of her features-half serious, half comical-when she tried to stand upon her dignity. Then the amused and defiant look, when she told him one of her names was "the Black Sheep;" and the frank confession that that indeed was one of her other names, when he told her she ought to be called "Ray of Gold." No silly blushing and vain simpering, although she must have known what he would imply. 
               Jacob seemed to know who she was: he had called her Miss Gutmann. Gutmann? There was a Mr. Gutmann, his father's friend. He would soon see, however. Getting quickly up, he rang the bell for Jacob. 
               Jacob was a trustworthy old servant. He had carried his young master in his arms when he could hardly walk; had played with him when he grew older, and helped him out of many a scrape. Jacob loved his master, and his master was very much attached to the faithful old man. Many a letter Wilhelm had written to him from his travels; and once, when he was dangerously sick, in a foreign country, old Mr. Waldheim had despatched Jacob to nurse his son. Faithfully and tenderly the trusty servant had done his duty. Through many a weary night he had watched by the patient's bedside, never tiring until Wilhelm had entirely recovered, and it was safe for Jacob to return home. Many a time had old Mr. Waldheim asked and taken his counsel, for Jacob had a wise head, and possessed a great deal of common sense. 
               "What do you wish, Herr Wilhelm?" Jacob asked, entering the study. And the shrewd blue eyes twinkled, for he had a pretty correct guess at the examination he thought he would have to go through. 
               Mr. Waldheim twirled his mustache between his white fingers, before beginning, and examined the precious stone that flashed upon his hand, as if there he expected the key with which to open the conversation. 
               Seeing that his master had some difficulty in getting at the matter occupying his thoughts, Jacob took the liberty to pave the way for him, as in former days he had done so often; therefore, he said: 
               "I suppose Miss Gutmann has reached home safely." 
               Wilhelm Waldheim smiled, slightly amused at his intelligent servant, and said: "Is Miss Gutmann, the lady who left us a short time ago, the daughter of our Stadtshultheiss (mayor), the old friend of my father?" 
               "The same, and his only child." 
               "What queer name did she give me, then? It was not Gutmann." 
               "Ah, the mischievous little fairy! Perhaps she told you she was called 'the Black Sheep?'" 
               "Yes, this was the name; but she seemed to enjoy it." 
               "No doubt of it," said Jacob, chuckling to himself. "And you, of course, were highly amazed?" 
               "How could I be otherwise, at a name so entirely out of place. What does it mean? Why is she called so?" 
               "Well, for no sensible reason, any way, I can assure you; for she is as good and as kind as an angel-so the poor will tell you; and there is no girl so lady-like and well-principled as Miss Gutmann. Nevertheless, the mighty ones of this city give her this name. And you know what they say must be true. A black sheep, you must know, Mr. Wilhelm, here means one who misleads others, or sets a bad example. Now, all the mothers of Seefeld fear their daughters might want to do as Miss Gutmann does, so she is constantly held up as 'the Black Sheep.'" 
               "But what, in Heaven's name, is she doing? I could not point out one single word or look that any one could call wrong." 
               "I believe it. You are not well enough acquainted with the customs of this country to do so; and to those-and that is her great sin-Miss Gutmann will not submit. They say all manner of things of her, and prophesy that she will yet come to a bad end. All the while-and this is the fun of it-they love her, envy her, are proud of her, pet her, and spoil her to their hearts' content. They say that with all her wrong opinions she is the dearest, best, kindest, and prettiest creature that ever breathed; yet, the next moment, they turn around and abuse her, as if she were the worst. That comes from her really being all that is good, and her fairly bewitching every one, from low to high, from rich to poor. All this seems very contradictory, but it is the truth." 
                
               "You seem well instructed about all the world says. Who is your informant?" asked Mr. Waldheim, highly amused at his servant's enthusiasm. 
               "Why, bless you, sir, I have it all from the best source in the world. Have we not Katharina, in the kitchen, who goes with her watertubs twice every day to one of the city fountains, to fetch water? Does she not meet there Mrs. Gutmann's Lena, and Mrs. Fisher's Marie, Mrs. Brenner's Lisele, and all the other servants of that part of the city? and are they not all bound to tell each other the scandal of all the families they belong to? Do they not there mutually disclose all that has happened during the day-listen, and sometimes defend, ay, even sometimes quarrel for this opinion, or that member of some family? And for whom do they fight oftener, and whom do they defend more, than Miss Caroline Gutmann? to whom none of the other young ladies can hold a candle." 
               "This will do, Jacob. There! some one knocks." 
               "Herr Stadtshultheiss Gutmann." 
               "My dear Mr. Waldheim, I take the liberty of calling on you. Knowing that you are, we may say, a foreigner in your own fatherland, and having been an old friend of your father, I resolved to see you, and ask whether I can be of any service to you. You have, I presume, very few acquaintances as yet, and therefore, if you will allow me, I suggest that I write your name upon the blackboard at the club-house, to let the members know that you desire to get elected as one of us. You will, of course, find no difficulty, and I guarantee that none but white balls will fall for you." 
               "I am infinitely obliged to you, Mr. Gutmann, and accept your kindness with thanks. I have, as you rightly suppose, no acquaintances as yet; for, until now, I have had very little leisure." 
               "When once a member of the club, it will be easy for you to get as many friends as you choose. To become acquainted with the fair sex of our city, you will, of course, for the present, have very little opportunity, as the recent death of your lamented father does not allow you to frequent the entertainments our club gives; but in about six or eight months you will be at liberty to enjoy their company also." 
               "Indeed! And may I not count on perhaps being permitted to visit them at their private residences?" 
               "Ha! ha!" chuckled Mr. Gutmann, good-naturedly naturedly; "well, well, you are green yet. A longer stay among us will teach you our ways. Ha! ha!" and the old gentleman seemed to enjoy the idea immensely. "No, no, Mr. Waldheim; this would not do with us. No, not with us," he repeated. "By Jupiter!" he murmured, half aloud, to himself, forgetting that Mr. Waldheim might understand him-"I hope he will not express this to Caroline, if he should meet her again; I do not know what that little witch might do." 
               Mr. Waldheim listened surprisedly to this, and especially to the muttered sentences, which he perfectly heard-though he did not understand their meaning. "I already have had the pleasure of becoming acquainted with Miss Gutmann, sir." 
               "Ah, yes; so she told me, the madcap! I suppose she shocked you? She tried very hard to do so, she told us. An unfortunate accident, that rain, of course; but could not be helped. She will be the town-talk too for a while; but she enjoys it immensely, which is the worst of it. She is a good girl, however, but frightfully obstinate in some things. Well, I dare say it is our fault. We spoiled her, sir, we spoiled her, and could not help it; she has such winning, caressing ways about her, that one does what she wishes before one is aware of it; and I really cannot vouch that I should not do so again, if I had to do it all over again." 
               "My dear sir, I see positively no reason why people should talk about your daughter taking shelter in my house, instead of getting saturated through and through by walking home in the rain." 
               "Wait a while, and you will see. However, this is neither here nor there," getting up. "I hope to meet you often at the club. Next Thursday there will be a general meeting, and you will-as we say-be balled in as a member. Good evening." 
               "I wish you a good evening. My regards to your family." 
               When Mr. Waldheim was alone, he said to himself: "What a queer country!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               A MORNING WALK. 
               ABOUT half an hour's walk from Seefeld is a sulphur spring. Years ago, a miniature hall had been built over it by the city. Its right wing contains two small rooms, in which live an old couple, rent free, to keep the place. This spring is a favorite spot with the fashionable world of Seefeld to walk to on fine mornings and evenings. The hall is prettily situated in a meadow, shaded by large old trees, and surrounded with tastily arranged flower-beds and small grass-plots, with bushes and shrubs. Two roads lead to it. The highway takes the promenaders past beautiful orchards and handsome summer-houses, until, turning into a well-covered lane, it brings them straight to the place. The other, a by-path, commencing at the last house of the city, winds through fields, past hedges, under trees, alongside of a murmuring brook rippling over a pebbly bed, clear and cool-losing itself near the spring under tufty moss, and breaking forth farther down with renewed vigor, so as to form a small fall, dashing over a little pile of rocks. 
               Caroline was a frequent visitor to the spring, where she often met some of her friends. She almost always went there alone, for she had, in fact, no particular bosom friend at all-though friendly with all the girls of her acquaintance. She had no secrets, therefore needed no confidante. Whatever she did, she did openly, not caring who saw or heard of it. The girls came to her with their little secrets and difficulties, always finding her ready to help, to advise, and to take-if need be-their troubles upon her own shoulders; saying, as she was "the black sheep" any way, one black mark, more or less, could not signify. 
               One evening she had given orders at home that she should be called next morning at five o'clock, as she wished to go to the spring. Her servant was punctual. Soon, attired in a simple morning-dress, a large straw hat on her golden hair, and her crystal cup swinging at her finger, she left the house. Taking the bypath, she soon saw the hall before her, peeping ing through the dense foliage of the stately trees. When she entered, she perceived that, early as it was, several gentlemen had preceded her. She was greeted respectfully, and one of them stepped forward to fill her glass for her. After this, they drew back, continuing the conversation which her entrance had interrupted. Caroline then walked up and down for some time, taking no further notice of the group. She was on the point of filling her glass for a last draught, when the gravel on the road crackled, and a gentleman entered. She heard the others exclaim: "Halloa, Waldheim! you here, and so early? What has brought you out this lovely morning?" The reply was: "Such beautiful weather would tempt any one to rise earlier than usual. First of all, however, a drink!" Turning round, he saw Caroline, who, glass in hand, returned his salute. Walking up to her, he said: 
               "This is an unexpected pleasure indeed. Are the ladies of Seefeld usually up so early?" 
               Caroline at first felt inclined to give a polite answer, and then retire, but, noticing the other gentlemen turn and look astonished when Mr. Waldheim addressed her, resolved at once to remain still longer, to engage in conversation with him. Therefore she said-and he wondered at the peculiar expression that passed her countenance-"Morning hours, like this, should be spent, if possible, among nature's beauties; and, as I am one of her votaries, it is but right that I should enjoy her first gifts." 
               "I had the pleasure of a visit from your honored father. I thought it extremely kind and considerate of him to remember that I am a stranger here." 
               "My father told me that he advised you to become a member of the club, and also, that you are one now." 
               "Yes, I have yet to thank him for all the trouble he took in the matter. I am fast becoming acquainted among my townsmen." 
               "I am glad to hear you say so. I see by my watch, however, that I must say good-by to you. I do not like my parents to take breakfast without me." 
               "It is time for me also to leave. Will you grant me the pleasure of finishing my morning walk in your company?" 
               A deep blush dyed Caroline's face at this unexpected question, and, undecided what to answer, she remained silent for a moment; but, throwing a quick glance towards where the others stood, and seeing only ominous looks, quickly said, while a defiant smile came into her eyes: "With pleasure; the road is the property of every one." 
               Mr. Waldheim noticed the peculiar response, and looked sharply at her, but, as she then stepped from the hall, had no time to make any comment, but followed in silence-waving a farewell to those remaining within. 
               "You seem unacquainted with those gentlemen, Miss Gutmann?" 
               "Oh, no; I know them quite well. Why do you think so?" She hesitated before asking this question, as she knew precisely what would follow. 
               "You must pardon me, Miss Gutmann, but, seeing you taking no notice of them, and they standing at a distance from you, I should not have thought that you knew each other well." 
               A flash of her eye, as if of delight, and a toss of her beautiful head, as if to say, "Now!"-and she said, looking full into his face: "Your friends behaved only as gentlemen are expected to behave-here," she added, as if to soften the severe explanation, when she perceived his face color painfully; but looking fearlessly and saucily into his eyes. 
               "Would you imply by this that I did not behave have as a gentleman?" he asked, and his brow gathered into a dark frown. 
               She furtively watched him, nearly laughing outright at his wounded amour propre, for she always enjoyed to upset the equanimity of "these lords of creation," as she sarcastically called them, and to ruffle their feathers, knowing that she could smooth them with silken touch. Therefore she felt no compassion for him, but walked placidly by his side, while he fumed inwardly, trying all the while to keep down his rising anger. 
               Thus they walked in silence, for a short space, until she could control herself no longer; so she said: "Mr. Waldheim, are you very much shocked?" 
               "Not shocked, Miss Gutmann," he answered, his anger visibly giving way at the sound of that voice; "but-but I cannot understand what you mean? You could not have intended to hurt me by what you said just now. I am only surprised." 
               "If you are surprised, what must those gentlemen be, whom we left at the spring?" 
               "Why? At what?" 
               "Will you be a docile pupil, while I am a perhaps severe teacher?" she asked, and her lovely face looked so bewitching, as she glanced upon him, that he would have promised anything, had she asked for it, let alone such an easy request. 
               "With pleasure; I shall be only too grateful for any trouble you may take with one who does not know how to behave as a gentleman." 
               "What, not digested that yet? Well, I must repeat it again, bitter as the pill may taste. A gentleman, here, acts-not as you have done to-day." 
               "But I have done only-" 
               "That is just it-that you have done. Had you only saluted me, or spoken a few polite words, if you wished to do so, and nothing else, then you would have behaved to perfection; but you have conversed with me, and, what is more, have asked to accompany me in my walk, and I-like 'the Black Sheep' that I am-have accepted it; and instead of haughtily and freezingly looking you over from head to foot for your presumptuous request, have allowed you to walk with me. Do you perceive, sir," she continued, with assumed severity, "that you have not the manners of a gentleman? Will you acknowledge that those others, whom we left at the spring, are far superior in wisdom, and much more fit to move in society than you? Do you feel your inferiority? Are you now convinced of the entire impropriety of your behavior?" 
               "I-I certainly feel very much ashamed," Mr. Waldheim said, confusedly, "at the offence I have so unwittingly committed; and I sincerely beg your pardon, Miss Gutmann. You surely know, however, the reason why I have behaved, as it seems, with such want of manners; for, as you are aware, I am a stranger, and therefore entirely unacquainted with the customs of my country." 
               "There is no apology necessary. If I had not seen the wondering faces of your friends, I probably should not have accepted your company; but perceiving them, I resolved to spite them, and thus it comes that I have not acted as a prudent girl who values the opinion of the world ought to act. You see, I do not care for custom, and for what people say about me, but do what pleases me, what my conscience tells me is not wrong-therefore I am 'the Black Sheep.' I give you the advice, however, to take lessons from one of your friends about these matters; for if you once take part in our public entertainments, you may, perhaps, find other ladies not so ready to overlook your want of manners. Excuse me," she interrupted herself, seeing him wince; "but it is best to call the child by the name one would give it here, with as lenient an eye as I do. Here our ways separate. I wish you good morning. You must not address me, if you meet me in the street, or I may look at you with the glance of an insulted queen;" and with a laugh that rang like a silver bell through the morning air, she bowed and turned the corner of the street. 
               Wilhelm Waldheim returned home. Breakfast was brought in, and he sat before it-tasting not a morsel. In vain did Jacob place the most tempting tidbits before him. He saw nothing but the sweet, roguish face, the dimpled cheeks, the rosy lips disclosing a row of pearly teeth at every smile; the flashing, dancing blue eyes; the beautiful hair, encircling the haughtily poised head as in a wreath of gold; the winning, graceful girl, who had left him with a ringing, joyous laugh that thrilled and moved his very soul. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE SLEIGH-RIDE. 
               IT was the last week in October, and the first snow had fallen, covering the street at least a foot deep. Caroline determined to take a walk in honor of the first sign of winter. Equipped in a soft black dress, a green velvet coat, trimmed all around with swan's-down, tight at the waist, showing her exquisite figure to perfection; a hat, or cap, also of green velvet and trimmings to match the coat, upon her hair-which waved like a golden veil around her shoulders-she stepped from the house. She had reached the market-place, when she perceived Mr. Waldheim coming toward her. Smiling to herself, while thinking of the warning she had given him the last time they had met, and curious to know what use he would make of her lesson, she was not a little astonished to see him halt straight before her. She was preparing for the haughty look she had promised to put on should he dare to address her in the street-when, taking off his hat, he said, with some anxiety: 
               "Pardon, Miss Gutmann, but-would it annoy you very much if I should say a few words to you? Only a favor I wish to ask of you; which, if you should grant it, would make me very happy." 
               "It does not annoy me, in the least. On the contrary, your courage delights me; especially as I see," glancing up at several windows, "a few of my friends watching us. I hope there is going to be a Kaffee-visit somewhere to-day. But you-after what I have told you, are not you afraid of losing your character as a gentleman?" 
               "Not if you do not withdraw your good opinion of me." 
               Caroline was struck with the look that accompanied these words; but, taking no further notice of it, asked: "And your request? what is it?" 
               Wilhelm Waldheim hesitated, blushed, and looked altogether as if he were eighteen, instead of ten years older. He avoided the keen look with which she seemed to read his heart, and said, at last: "The snow is beautifully deep, and altogether inviting for a sleigh-ride." 
               Although Caroline now perfectly understood what he wanted, and also why he was so strangely confused, she enjoyed his discomfort too much to desire to help him with one look or word; but said, with immovable composure, "That is an undeniable fact. Any further news, Mr. Waldheim?" 
               The slight tinge of sarcasm in her voice, which did not escape his ear, brought back to him his wonted self-possession. "My new sleigh, and also a pair of horses which I purchased yesterday, are waiting for Miss Gutmann; and, if she will give me the pleasure of accepting my invitation for a drive to-morrow afternoon, I should consider myself highly honored." 
               "What?" And she stepped back a step, pretending to be greatly shocked. "What audacity! Are you aware of the consequences of such a proceeding?" 
               "For you, or for me, Miss Gutmann?" 
               "For you, of course. I do the most outrageous things, without thinking of the consequences, and my friends are used to it. But you?" 
                
               "Then I give you the same answer as before-as long as I stand high in Miss Gutmann's good graces, I do not care what others think." 
               "Very well. You are delightful altogether," she exclaimed, her eyes dancing with pleasure. "What fun we shall have! It is splendid! Really, if we were not here, upon the marketplace, I should go into raptures." 
               As Mr. Waldheim watched this childlike pleasure, and the lovely face dimpled all over with delight at the anticipated "fun," the play of those beautiful eyes, and the artless, innocent expression of the radiant features, he longed to speak words which he had never spoken to a woman before. But he suppressed his wish, and managed to say, quietly: "Which hour would suit you best, Miss Gutmann?" 
               She had come out of her ecstasy in the mean time, and answered, composedly enough: "Two o'clock. But, Mr. Waldheim," she added, soberly, "count the cost! I shall not be angry if you withdraw your invitation." 
               He shook his head, saying, slowly: "There is but one for whose opinion I care. I told you so before." 
               "Be it so, then; but do not blame me afterward ward. I have warned you. At two o'clock to-morrow." 
               "I thank you, Miss Gutmann." And they passed on. 
               After this, Caroline had no mind to prolong her walk, but went home-there to encounter a storm, to fight a battle with her parents, as hard and as tough as she had ever gone through before; but she would, she must win, she said to herself, entering the house. 
               "Was it too cold for you, my child, that you come back so soon?" 
               "I do not know, mamma. The fact is, I took no notice of the weather at all; or, if I did, I have forgotten it." 
               "You speak strangely, Caroline," said her father. 
               "I dare say I do, papa; but my mind is occupied with a very important matter. I met Mr. Waldheim on the market-place, and I accepted his invitation for a sleigh-ride to-morrow afternoon," she said, dashing into the strife at once. 
               "That is not the proper way for a gentleman to give an invitation. He ought to have asked our consent also. However, as Wilhelm Waldheim is to be looked upon as yet as a stranger, I shall not be too particular with him. I did not know that the young people of the club had arranged a sleigh-ride. Perhaps, as they mostly remain longer than we old folks, it was fixed when we had gone. Strange, though, that they fixed it upon a week-day." 
               "This invitation has nothing to do with the club. It is not a party. Mr. Waldheim has a new sleigh, and has bought a span of horses, and he wants me to use them first. That is all." 
               "What is all, Caroline?" asked her father, quickly. "Do you think that I shall give permission for such mad proceedings? No, miss, no! You have done outlandish things enough, it is true, but this I will not countenance." 
               Caroline was in the habit of letting her father finish his speech first, whenever he was angry-"To let the volcano burn itself out," as she was wont to say. Respectfully she would listen, only now and then stroking gently his white long hair, or giving a forgiving pat upon his hands, to smooth down, as she laughingly explained, the ruffled plumage of her handsome darling. When he had finished, she came forward with her sugar-plums, and tried to blind him with the battery of her brilliancy. She was a cunning little puss, as well as a lovely one, and knew well what her powers were, and how to use them. Therefore fore, when she saw his head getting gradually involved in a cloud of smoke, and no sparks followed after a long silence, she knew that her father had said his say, and that-the volcano was burnt out. Then she drew timidly near, putting on the most innocent and demure face, whispering softly, "Papa, are you vexed with your little puss?" 
               A grunt came from the clouds. 
               "Thank you, darling!"-as if she had received the most explanatory answer-and her eyes began to sparkle. "Mamma, your ball has dropped-here it is. Are these stockings for me? How finely and evenly knitted!" 
               Mr. Gutmann managed to throw a look of despair through a clearing in the clouds towards his wife, as much as to say: "Now, she begins-can you hold out?" Mrs. Gutmann shook her head, which meant as much as-"You must do it. I am not equal." Caroline rejoiced, for nothing escaped her. So the little general renewed her attack. 
               "Poor Mr. Waldheim! Who will have the courage to send him home to-morrow with an empty sleigh, disappointed of his anticipated pleasure? You can never be so cruel, papa. You, with your kind heart, will never be able to undertake such an unkind task. I am sure he invited me, only thinking to please you; yes, you, papa, who have been so kind to him. He told me that he had yet to thank you for your great kindness to him." The volumes of smoke grew now so dense that Caroline had to turn her head. It was a sign that her father felt throughly uncomfortable, always a good omen, as relenting surely followed. By this time she had wound her arms around his neck, not minding the smoke, and was combing his hair with her slender fingers. 
               "How beautifully silky your locks are, papa!" 
               "And how white," growled a voice beneath them; "and it is your obstinacy and your contrary ways that have bleached them." 
               "Indeed!" exclaimed Caroline, not at all moved by this pathetic appeal. "I am very glad of it, for you have no idea how it becomes you. So there is no reason for you to complain, as your voice seems to imply, nor for me to regret. Mamma, please do not turn up your eyes towards heaven, and look so distressed. You are neither in church, nor at a funeral, but simply at home, talking about the sleigh-ride which your little daughter means to enjoy to-morrow." 
               A sigh was the only answer. 
                
               "Mamma," continued the spoiled beauty, "how old am I?" 
               "You know, my dear, that you are eighteen-old enough, Heaven knows, to act wiser and more prudently than you do." 
               "There! do not let us have any melodramas. You had eighteen-say seventeen years, in which you could train me, form my mind, and mould it into every possible shape you pleased. If you have succeeded, well and good: you ought to know best whether the nestling has grown up a bird to your taste; if not," and the little witch looked solemnly into her parents' faces, "why, I surely will never complain; and you, darling, would certainly never confess your failure. So, there is an end of it! Here I am, eighteen years old, exactly as you have made me-loving you two darlings above everything; my own way next, and sometimes a little extra pleasure, which you surely would never have the heart to grudge me. Now tell me," and the pretty golden head nestled into her mother's lap, while one small, dimpled hand caressingly held her father's, "am I not your own darling, exactly as you wish her?" 
               The fortress was won: that last pleading look had dealt the death-blow to all resolutions made too rashly. 
               The ride proved a success. Both parties were greatly pleased. Mr. Waldheim sometimes looked unutterable things, and several times tried to express them; but Caroline, who had practice in these matters, successfully quenched his ardor each time. 
               In the evening of that day, Wilhelm Waldheim went, as usual, to the club. He was received with stunning shouts, and nearly pulled to pieces by enthusiastic friends; who, pouring congratulations and wishes for all kinds of happiness into his wondering ears, nearly wrung his arms off in their-to him-unexplainable excitement. 
               Such phrases as "Lucky dog!" "Quick work!" "Sly fellow!" and so forth, reached his ears, without his being able to make out their meaning. 
               At last the noise somewhat subsided, and Wilhelm found opportunity to inquire for what he had deserved this very flattering reception? 
               Then followed another outburst, mingled with an occasional dig between his ribs with some invisible cane, or some such article. "Do not be bashful, Waldheim!" "There is no reason for it. Confess!" "Shame upon you! to deny your bride." "Out with it!" and such like exclamations again were heard. 
               "Upon my honor, gentlemen, I do not know what you mean. Explain, and you will find me ready to tell all that I know, if I know anything." 
               "Waldheim, when did you pop the question?" 
               "To whom?" 
               "To whom but to Miss Gutmann! Why, Waldheim, if you wished to keep your engagement a secret-for which, by-the-by, I see no earthly reason-why did you go out sleigh-riding with her to-day?" 
               A light broke now upon the bewildered man, and he could scarcely hide his confusion. "Gentlemen, be pleased to listen to me. I am not engaged to Miss Gutmann." 
               All looked up in astonishment, for no one could doubt that he was sincere. 
               "I asked the lady to accompany me, and she consented. It is true, she told me that it was against the rule here; but, as people were used to her extraordinary doings, she would enjoy the ride, if I did not mind being put into the black-book. As I saw nothing wrong in the matter-I have done it many a time in foreign countries, where it is the custom tom-I felt only honored by her accepting my invitation." 
               "That looks exactly like Caroline Gutmann: honest and straightforward, but careless of her own repute," said one of the company. 
               "I have the highest opinion of Miss Gutmann, and I shall take it as a personal insult if any word be said against her!" And he looked searchingly and fearlessly around. 
               "Do not be afraid, Waldheim," said another, with a sly wink; "no one knows any ill of the lady. She is as open as the day; and all her actions are above-board, laid bare to every one's inspection." 
               "All right!" said Wilhelm aloud, secretly wishing that he had a right to accept his friends' congratulations. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               AN EXCURSION. 
               AFTER that time, Caroline often saw Mr. Waldheim in the street. As if by instinct, he happened to meet her now almost every time she went out. He passed by her with evident reluctance, as if hoping she would stop and speak to him-fastening his look lingeringly upon hers, as if asking for one word, for a moment's pause. She, serenely smiling in his face, returned his salute only by a formal bow, and passed on, apparently not heeding his eloquent gaze. After he had passed, some slight remorse would sometimes sting her, making her wish that she had acted differently; but she would say to herself, "No; I must show him that, although it may please me to take a ride with him, it does not follow that it should please me always to speak to him when he wishes it." 
                
               Wilhelm Waldheim joined now in the manifold entertainments of the club, and, as there was no week in which there was not a ball, concert, soiree, private theatricals, or other amusement such as the pleasure-seeking rejoice in, Caroline and he were thrown a great deal into each other's company. It seemed as if among all whom he saw, she alone interested him. He danced with her only, and when other partners took her from his side, he waited for her return, conversing during her absence with her mother. Sometimes he desired to give vent to his feelings, by telling her of his all-absorbing love for her; but she so adroitly checked his slightest attempt, that he knew not whether, understanding what he was wishing to impart and to save him the anguish of being refused, she had thus turned it off with her easy grace; or whether, in her girlish innocence, she had, indeed, never guessed that love occupied his heart. 
               Caroline Gutmann was very well acquainted with the state of Wilhelm Waldheim's feelings towards her, however; and read in every act, in every glance, in every expression of his dark, passionate countenance, that his thoughts were only of her; that every beat of his heart was for her; that she alone could make his whole frame quiver and tremble with delight; that with one smiling glance of her blue eye she could move his heart to its very core; and that an hour of neglect had the power of disturbing his peace of mind for the whole evening. Caroline was too well versed in these affairs not to have known all this. She was not a woman for nothing; and, moreover, had had experience for almost two years past, to know sufficiently what all her charms could work; and that not only men, but also-and this was her greatest triumph-women, bowed to the wealth, position, and last, (but not least,) the beauty she possessed. She never had used, and never would use her powers to draw on the hearts of men by playing with their feelings, or trifle with true affection, and then, when tired of her toy, throw it carelessly away, enthralling a new victim. But how could she help it, if the flies would buzz around the flame, although getting no encouragement-but often cold looks, haughty answers, and indifferent smiles, for all their pointed attentions and proposals of marriage. 
               Her heart had never been touched. She believed that the courting of most of the gentlemen of her acquaintance was more paid to her father's money and station than to herself; and that, if she were beautiful only, their zeal for her hand would be less rapturous and persevering than it was now. She enjoyed being made much of, and accepted men's homage; but her affections had, as yet, not been stirred. Therefore the attentions of Wilhelm Waldheim, though pleasing, did not awake a warmer feeling in her heart than a preference for his society, and a thought of pleasure at the knowledge that she had obtained, without a struggle, what she knew all the mothers of her young friends were anxiously wishing for their own daughters. 
               When Mr. Waldheim commenced making Fenster-paraden, ("window-parades,") and passed her father's house daily, keeping his eyes steadily on a particular row of windows, but longest on that where she was wont to sit, she laughed to herself, saying, "So he has taken lessons, at last!" and, to torment him, and show him that his passing or not passing was a matter of entire indifference to her, often left her seat at the window when she perceived him from afar, and withdrew to some small room at the top of the house, where he would not expect her to be, and whither, therefore, his eyes would not roam, and thence watch his slow step as he gazed longingly up, seeking vainly for her figure between the flowers that ornamented the window-sill; and then, when she saw his face grow thoughtful at not perceiving her, she smiled and rubbed her hands in delight at the power she possessed over that all-coveted man. 
               Thus the winter passed. The warm season brought picnics and excursions. The gardens then were opened, and out-of-door pleasures, not less prized than those of the cold season, commenced. Nature opened its doors for the young to drink from her overflowing fountain, and for the old to draw life and youth again from her never-aching bosom. 
               In light garments and large straw hats, the young members of the club assembled at five o'clock, one Sunday morning, at some place agreed upon, to start on the first excursion of the season. With light hearts the lively company left the city; but, when once on the road, or when some shady by-path was reached, then the gentlemen chose their particular ladies, and thus, full of life and merriment, the party proceeded. The wood was reached. A mountain or steep hill had to be climbed: the weaker sex needed protectors, and the gentlemen willingly offered their assistance, rejoicing at the slight touch of the clinging arm holding on so confidingly to their stronger one. Some farm-house was reached at last, where these "babes in the wood" refreshed themselves with cool and creamy milk. Games were played, and after a few hours' rest, they proceeded. They sang; they recited; they improvised; they made jokes, laughing most at the worst ones, for their hearts were open and ready to overflow into mirth on such a lovely day. The forest thickened. A few steps more, and they stood at the head of a fall, whose waters burst from between large gray rocks with tremendous noise-descending at least ninety feet down into the abyss, where it whirled and foamed until it flowed, growing quieter, as a broad stream, through velvety meadows, watering the valley below, and turning the wheels of a mill farther on. 
               The company stopped, awed at this grand spectacle of nature. Some of the gentlemen climbed the rocks, addressing the fairies of the waters in humorous speeches. Some knelt down to sprinkle the spray upon the heads of the party, christening them in the name of the water nymphs. General merriment prevailed: but time flew, and its wheels turned in untiring speed, carrying with them the brief hours of joy and pleasure. Some of the party reminded the rest that to reach Berg (a small village where the excursionists had ordered dinner) they must not linger any longer. The mountain was ascended-thanks to the guide who had been engaged at the farm-house, they lost their way only three times, and reached Berg at two o'clock, just when people were going to afternoon service. Arm-in-arm the procession came to the small, neat inn, and sat down to the well-provided table with a relish. Some of the party, obtaining permission from the mayor, engaged music, and, when dinner was over, lively airs were played, and dancing began-until about eight o'clock. Then the hired omnibuses were brought out, and the various couples seated themselves, sure to enjoy the three hours' ride by beautiful moonlight. 
               Mr. Waldheim had anticipated much from that day; but it was anticipation only. 
               No sooner had Caroline set eyes upon him that morning, than she said within herself: "You seem to have determined upon something; but so have I-only I do not carry my purpose so plainly written upon my countenance. We shall see, however, who succeeds best. No! Wilhelm Waldheim, no bonds for me, as yet." When had Caroline ever not had her way, if she once had set her mind upon it? 
               How was it possible for Mr. Waldheim to tell her of his feelings, when, hearing his voice assume a tender tone, she suddenly gave a little cry of fright, pretending to have slipped and hurt herself? When he bent close to whisper love, she burst into a merry laugh, pointing to his hat, which, brushed off by a convenient branch, was rolling upon the ground? Or, when the party had returned to Seefeld, and Mr. Waldheim thought to have her all to himself while accompanying her home, she proposed that the omnibuses should convey every lady to her own door, as it was late, and, judging by herself, all must be very tired? So that excursion was to Wilhelm Waldheim not what he had intended it should be-but rather a day of disappointment. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               OLD JACOB'S ADVICE. 
               OTHER excursions and picnics followed, when the weather permitted. All the gardens were open each Sunday, and also upon every Thursday afternoon, if the weather was fine; so Mr. Waldheim could not fail to meet Caroline. But when meeting after meeting with her, in this manner, resulted in nothing, she with admirable skill and cleverness evading his serious advances, his heart grew heavy within him; and he began to ask whether she really did not purposely keep him from proposing? That his society was not unpleasant to her he believed; but still, she might not feel for him the affection he expected from his future wife, and knowing this, she might try to ward off the unpleasantness of having to give him a refusal. When this idea once became an almost settled conviction with Wilhelm Waldheim, he grew sad indeed; and if to be near her and see her had not become almost a necessity with him now, he would have ceased to visit the places where he could meet her; but he knew that this would have been more than he could have borne. So he continued to enjoy her society, feeling the more desolate when away from her. 
               Not Wilhelm Waldheim alone, however, grew thoughtful, and was downcast; but there was yet another person whose plans seemed to be threatened with entire failure. Old Jacob, who, ever since Caroline Gutmann had entered his young master's mansion on that memorable rainy day, had harbored thoughts of love and marriage between Wilhelm and her, and who had visions of a golden-headed, lovely mistress to brighten the home of his beloved master, now trembled to see his beautiful castle tumble to the ground by the mismanagement, as he called it, of Mr. Wilhelm. Anxiously he had watched his proceedings, rejoicing at his evident zeal and earnestness, as well as in his apparent success. By-and-by his smiles vanished, giving way to ominous shakes of the head. His young master's sad countenance distressed him; and sundry remarks, that had come to his knowledge through Katharine, (who faithfully poured into his eager ear the talk at the fountain,) had led him to believe that a little good advice would not harm Mr. Wilhelm; who, blinded by love, pulled altogether-as he expressed himself-on the wrong string. "Who could have thought," he muttered to himself, "that Herr Waldheim, who ought to know women thoroughly, really knows them so little?" After several weeks of mutterings and staring in the empty air, Jacob resolved that, as it would not be the proper thing for him to give his advice to his master without being asked, he must pull him out of the scrape somehow, as he had done so often in times gone by; and so he went to work, proceeding in a most original manner. 
               Wilhelm Waldheim was sitting at his breakfast, smoking a cigar, whose fragrant odor filled the room. Listlessly watching the bluish wreaths of smoke that ascended into the air, he sat reclining in an easy-chair. Occasionally he took a sip of coffee, and absently crumbled a delicate roll between the tips of his fingers. He sat thus for a long while. The cigar went out, and the cup was empty. Reaching out his hand for a small crystal carafe, usually containing water, he found it empty: "Jacob, some water." 
               "Yes, sir," and the carafe was removed. Then some time passed again. Master and servant seemed to have forgotten what had been wanted, until Mr. Waldheim again reached for the carafe, and not seeing it there, remembered his order. Astonished at Jacob's unusual inattention, he looked around to remind him of his previously expressed wish, when he perceived him sitting in the most dejected attitude upon a chair, near a window. The glass pitcher was dangling on his forefinger, and his eyes were staring, as it seemed, through its bottom, at some invisible object upon the ground. Now and then, dolorous sighs heaved his bosom, and several times he pulled out his pocket-handkerchief to wipe his eyes. 
               Wilhelm shook off his reverie, and called: "Jacob, you have forgotten to bring me some water." Jumping up quickly, as if awakened from a dream, the old man left the room; not, however, before Mr. Waldheim heard a sigh so deep as to resemble a groan. He thought this behavior very strange; the more so, as he had never before seen his old servant in such a melancholy mood. He would have asked the reason of it; but, as Jacob soon appeared with the water, looking cheerful as was his wont, Wilhelm neglected to inquire, and forgot the matter. At dinner, however, Jacob again conducted himself in a most extraordinary manner. He stood upright-soldier fashion-near the table, as if awaiting his master's commands, striking, occasionally, his breast with his hand in a most pathetic way; at the same time murmuring such words as, "Women-devotion-old fool," and so forth; answering neither Mr. Waldheim's question, "What he meant?" nor attending to his required services at the table. When his master once handed him a napkin, which he had removed from over a vase of fruit, he took it quickly, as if in ecstasy, pressing it to his heart and lips, while he exclaimed, as if in doubt: "Is it then true? At last! at last!" Then bursting into tears, he left the room hastily. 
               Had Jacob been thirty or forty years of age, instead of over sixty, Mr. Waldheim would have at once declared that his servant was madly in love; but, as it was, he said to himself with terror, that poor, faithful old Jacob had become a lunatic. Instead of laughing at his ridiculous behavior, he sadly resolved to call in a physician at once. While Mr. Waldheim was yet consulting with himself, Jacob appeared, blissfully ignorant, as was evident by the expression of his countenance, of the manner in which he had left the room some minutes before. Removing the dishes and handing some wine to Wilhelm, he began to tell him some news he had heard during the forenoon, and then asked some questions about different household affairs in as sane and reasonable a manner as any one could have wished. 
               Supper came: the table was set and everything duly served, but Jacob was not to be seen. Wilhelm waited-waited long and patiently. At last, a little alarmed, he got up to seek him, for Jacob occupied a large place in his master's heart. Attracted by a dull sound, he stepped into the hall, where he beheld his servant, in a pleading attitude, kneeling before the image of a marble Venus. Mr. Waldheim went up to him, and, laying his hand gently upon his shoulder, softly said, "Poor old Jacob, this is not the place for you. Come with me. Tell me, if you can, of your trouble." He led him into the room. "Jacob, what is the matter with you? Are you mad, that you behave so strangely? or-can you be in-love?" 
                
               "I love, Herr Wilhelm, although I am old and gray, and my whole heart's devotion belongs to"-him, he was going to say, but he stopped in time. 
               "This is bad, though I thought it was something worse. Now, Jacob, you must tell me all about it; perhaps I can be of use to you. Is the damsel of your love averse to your affection? Does she know of it?" 
               "I believe so," with a sigh. 
               "Does she care for it?" 
               "She does not value it." 
               "Ah! this is bad. Perhaps you have not shown your fondness in the right way." 
               "I came to the same conclusion lately, and discovered another way how to find out the thoughts of her heart, and whether she cares for me or not; but it is a very hard way for a truly loving heart." 
               "Nevertheless, you must try it, Jacob, if you think it will give you security." (It will cure him of his folly, perhaps, Mr. Waldheim thought to himself, if he has done with suspense; so I will lend a helping hand; poor old fellow!) "But your new plan, what is it?" 
               "You see, Herr Wilhelm-but will you not grow impatient if I be somewhat lengthy in my explanation?" 
                
               "No, I promise you, I shall be all attention." (Poor man, this affair has nearly turned his head; now he is for making a speech, I am bound.) 
               "To you, sir, who ought to know woman's nature so well, this all will sound very stale, indeed; but, as you are so kind as to allow me to unburden my mind, and to begin at the beginning, here it goes. You know, Herr Wilhelm, there are many kinds of women. There is, for instance, the one who, although not beautiful, draws on your heart by her womanly grace. Loving and lovable, you win her heart and tell her of your love; she, with trusting simplicity, accepts your affection, confessing that she returns it; and, without expecting much ado or show, becomes your faithful wife. Happy the man who, with so easy tranquillity, may thus sail his ship into the port." Here a deep-drawn sigh signified that such was not the woman he had in his mind. "Then there is another kind," he continued, "haughty and proud, living on attentions, expecting them by right; won by attention, and, as wife, commanding attention. With not much heart, or, if they have any, covered by their dignity, stateliness, and pride. Looking well at the head of a table and as mistress of a large establishment, but entirely useless in nurseries or in a poor man's house. Pity for the man who, among these overpowering qualities, seeks, in hours of need, the greatest and most beautiful gift of a woman-a heart. Then, a third kind includes those who bewitch us with their charms, by their loveliness, by their goodness of heart, by their innocent, child-like ways. These are the most dangerous ones, for we must love them, we cannot help it. We must show our devotion to them, for it is our pleasure. We must watch their every look and fulfil their slightest wish, for to serve them is to serve ourselves. We must, as it were, lay our hands under their feet, and watch that only sunshine comes near them, for their joy is ours." Jacob had become excited in his eloquence, and his eyes anxiously watched his master's. "But," he continued, "is this the way to reach their hearts; or, more correctly, is this the way to make our devotion valuable to them? No, Mr. Waldheim, these beauties have been spoiled. They have hearts, but are not aware of it. They may love us, but they know it not. Affection, attention, love, and all that, have become stale and tasteless to their palled palates, and for them those words have lost their beautiful meaning and are-worthless less. Therefore, to create a reaction, one must turn over a new leaf." Here he stopped to take breath, for he had spoken quickly, as if afraid of being interrupted; and, throwing a sharp look upon his master's face, he noticed that it wore an expression of intense interest. So he went on: "Having paid all possible attention to them, and not having received any sign that their hearts respond to ours, one must cease to pay attentions, be simply polite, and seem indifferent to their smiles. Instead of seeking their society, one must pass them with a courteous bow only, and give over making Fenster-paraden." 
               He had gone too far, and he knew it the minute it was out; but he had done what he wanted, and hoped it would get his master out of the scrape. 
               "Remove the dishes, Jacob; I do not want you any longer. I shall go out. Jacob!" just as the latter had reached the door. 
               The old man came back, looking very humble. Mr. Waldheim took his hand, pressing it warmly, and said: "Faithful old Jacob!" then turning his head, as if to conceal his emotion, waved him away. 
               "Faithful and true," he murmured, when alone; "and delicate as a woman. Sly old fox!" and he smiled, thinking how he had been sold. "He is right, however, and I shall take his advice, hard as it may be to me. Showing her my love by every possible attention has brought me nothing. I shall see what a little assumed indifference can do." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               TORMENTING. 
               IT was on a Friday that Jacob had shown to his master that the management concerning the affair of his heart was altogether wrong; and that, to win such a young lady as Caroline Gutmann, he must take a course very different from that he had previously pursued. Jacob, to use a common phrase, had removed the lid from the kettle, and thrown a new light upon the subject. Wilhelm Waldheim, who understood the lesson, promised to himself to learn it, doubting, however, whether it were not too hard to practise. Time was granted him to tone down his feelings, however, and to moderate his love into the-for that task-required even temperature; for Sunday proved rainy, and, therefore, the meeting was postponed poned. Thursday, however, broke bright and lovely upon the world of Seefeld; and Mr. Waldheim trembled when he parted the curtains of his bedroom-window, and almost recoiled at the dazzling rays that illuminated the beautiful garden beneath. Should he not go away, and avoid her altogether? This would be much easier, thought he, than to see and not speak to her. No! he would proceed; he had begun already, for he had ceased to make Fenster-paraden. What had she thought-how had she felt, as day after day passed and he did not appear? Had it cost her half so many pangs as it had cost him? Or, had she only wondered at the omission, and nothing more? He knew that he had been perfectly miserable, and several times in the day had started to go; but each time Jacob had entered the room, keeping him in talk about trifles, until the proper time had fled. Yes, Jacob was a great strain upon Wilhelm Waldheim, who felt ashamed before him, and therefore did the utmost to hide his inward excitement and restlessness. Had his love for his old, faithful servant not been too deeply rooted, he could have hated him for the pleasure he withheld from him. In hours of thought and reason, Mr. Waldheim told himself that Jacob was right, and that he (Wilhelm) must act as the old man had advised. 
               When he entered the garden on Thursday afternoon, and Mr. Gutmann called to him, astonished at seeing him about to pass their table, he felt joy, saying to himself that, now, it was not his doing; and when the old gentleman asked why nobody had seen him these few last days, he threw a conscious look upon Caroline; but, seeing her quietly nibbling at a sweet biscuit, and smiling unconcernedly at a gentleman by her side, (Mr. Herder, one of her most ardent admirers,) he felt piqued, and replied, loud enough for her to hear, "that he had not felt inclined to go out;" and taking no notice of the surprised look of Mrs. Gutmann, saluted the party, and left. Caroline's face haunted him while mingling with the crowd. Neither misery nor sadness was to be read there. The smiles were as sunny and the eyes as sparkling as when they had last met, with no sign of any wish that he might remain with her. Cool and composed was her bow in return for his when leaving; turning instantly to Mr. Herder, who, charmed at this chance, exulted in his good luck. When the young couples proceeded to one of the large grass plots, overshaded by stately trees, to engage in games, and Mr. Waldheim, with a young girl upon his arm, passed Mr. Gutmann's table, Caroline had just accepted Mr. Herder's arm, allowing herself to be led away to join the others. She bowed to Mr. Waldheim's partner, saying to him, "We are late: they have begun their play already;" and with easy grace took the place Mr. Herder had selected for her. Waldheim watched her closely; and, when going home that evening, had to acknowledge to himself that he could not detect the slightest change in her. Her step had been as light as before, and her laugh rang as silvery as ever. Nevertheless, he would persevere in his distant behavior. He had now begun, and the worst was over. He would continue a month, at least; and then-he did not say what-probably he did not know himself. Jacob felt deeply when he read in his master's face that his trouble had not grown lighter from that afternoon's experience. 
               Caroline-what of her? Had the changed behavior of Wilhelm Waldheim indeed passed unperceived? and, if not, had it really affected her at all? 
               She had observed it, and it had impressed her; but in a manner altogether unexpected by him. When he stopped making Fenster-paraden, she had simply wondered-supposed him to be ill, but not seriously. When she saw him behave in such an altogether astonishing manner at the garden, even to saying that he "did not feel like going out," she said, within herself, "Fib number one;" and when he paraded his young partner before their table, she counted "fib number two;" and whenever she caught him acting another "fib" that afternoon, her spirit rose, her heart expanded, and she grew gracious to every one, except to him-who, as she said to herself, "was such a poor dissembler." That evening, when alone in her room, she gave a joyous laugh, saying, "Your game is a stale one, Mr. Waldheim, and one a woman easily sees through. You will come back again; if not the next, the next, next time. Who ever saw me lose a battle! I love you, darling," and her voice softened, the light of her eyes grew tender, and her face assumed a thoughtful expression. "Yes, I love you dearly, Wilhelm Waldheim: why cannot you see it in my smiles and happy features? Must women look sad and thoughtful when they love? Must reproachful, meaning glances retard the proposals which so well may be made when the countenance expresses of what the heart is full? Is it necessary that you torture yourself by avoiding me? Foolish, loving, dark gypsy! But I will lead you a pretty dance. You have brought it upon yourself. You are not different from papa and mamma, nor more difficult, and I have always managed them-whether by smiles or pouts, it is all the same. They love me; you love me. Therefore I shall get you around again; if not by coaxing, by-no matter-some way or other; but I shall end as conqueror." 
               Next Sunday was a picnic. Caroline devoted herself entirely to Mr. Herder, giving scarcely a look to poor Mr. Waldheim, who, with another lady by his side, was deeply wounded by this indifference. Several meetings passed in this manner, with no change. Wilhelm Waldheim despaired-while she seemed all unconscious of the pain she inflicted. 
               One day, as Caroline passed her kitchen, she heard Barbara and Lena speak eagerly. Lena said: "You may believe me-I heard it at the fountain. Katharine, his servant, told us that she thinks her master is going travelling again. He seems to be out of sorts, and old Jacob has a hard time; and, do you know, Katharine said that it was all about our young mistress! she will not lend her ear to his expressions of love; and so he intends leaving his home again-but not before autumn." 
               Caroline had heard enough. Her smiles had not brought him back to her, so she must dissemble. She did. Mr. Herder was surprised at her changed behavior, when next they met; and so was Mr. Waldheim. 
               Her face was quiet. Around the sweet mouth no dimples played, and the joyous, ringing laugh had given way to a sad smile. From every side she was asked whether she was ill. A low "No," accompanied by a mournful shake of the head, was the only reply; while lingering glances at Mr. Waldheim wrung his heart. He anxiously inquired what was the matter? 
               "Nothing you would care for, Mr. Waldheim," and that voice and look made him feel like a villain. She had left his side, in the mean time, and he could find no other opportunity to speak to her again that afternoon. 
               Thus several weeks went by, and Caroline's very appearance was a reproach to him. Jacob told him that Katharine heard Lena say her mistress was very low-spirited; that nobody could account for it; that she never sang as she used to do; that the flowers withered, for she neglected them; that her piano was never touched now; and that her parents were in despair, for she refused to have the advice of a physician. 
               Mr. Waldheim would long ago have thrown himself at her feet, told her of his fervent love, and begged her forgiveness; but she avoided him. For that he did not blame her; for he told himself that it was he who had given her pain, and, therefore, she had a right to be angry with him. He had driven the gladness from her heart, and the sunshine from her eyes. He deserved to be treated with coldness by her. If she only would smile again, as trustingly and confidingly as of old, he would never, never again cause her any pain. 
               Caroline, when back from the scenes of her triumphs, and alone at home, would laugh and say: "You are coming around, Wilhelm Waldheim; but not yet will I smile upon you, although I love you truly; but you make me suffer for not allowing me to be myself. You force me to look sad and downcast, when I wish to laugh; you make me give up my music and cease my singing, when all the while I feel joyous; you force me to let my flowers perish-all these things must be avenged. You make me suffer-I shall make you suffer, too, darling." 
               Some more weeks had gone by, when Jacob entered his master's room with a disturbed countenance. "There is strange news from Mr. Gutmann's house. Katharine brought it just now from the fountain." 
               "What is it?" asked Mr. Waldheim, vainly trying to hide his excitement. 
               "Miss Gutmann has left Seefeld." 
               "What do you mean? explain!" shouted his master. 
               "She insisted that her parents should place her in an Institute to improve her French, as she said. They resisted long, saying that her French needed no improvement; but she had, at last, her way, as usual, and her father went this morning with her to Genf (Geneva) in Switzerland, where he has friends, and where they say the finest French is spoken. She will be placed in an Institute there. Her mother is in despair, and the house is very lonely, so they report." 
               With a gesture of anguish Mr. Waldheim motioned his servant away, and, when alone, he groaned aloud, saying: "And it is I who have driven her from her home!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               FOR ONE YEAR. 
               AFTER Caroline had last met Wilhelm Waldheim, she told herself, when alone, that to see him again was beyond her strength. She loved him truly, and would be unable to meet any more those hungry eyes which followed her every movement. They had pained her deeply last Thursday, and it had been a hard task to avoid their pleading language. He loved her for herself only, she did not doubt; but one more trial he must go through, she resolved, if it were for nothing else but to show him that there are girls who cannot be made to dance after every tune these "lords of creation" choose to whistle. Therefore she had nerved herself at their last meeting, and borne her heart-ache bravely. 
               She had been preparing her parents these several weeks for the request she intended to make, and sundry hints about her wish to perfect herself in French had made them feel very uncomfortable. She renewed the attack, and, as usual, got what she had wanted, not, however, without a hard struggle; and so it came to pass that, as Jacob had correctly reported, she had left town, in company with her father, to be placed in a finishing school in great repute at that time. 
               Jacob, who always anxiously listened to Katharine, his nymph of the fountain, and who had, with inward joy, been informed of the increasing change in Miss Gutmann's manners, had, at the day of her departure, particularly enjoyed Katharine's report about the sadness and down-castness of the golden-haired young lady, when, like a thunder-clap, the addition that she had left town turned his joy into consternation and fear. Not that he for one moment doubted that all this was in favor of his young master's success; but because he was afraid Mr. Waldheim would not take the same view of the case. It was, therefore, with an uneasy feeling that he entered the room, and, with doubtful voice, imparted the startling news. 
               How his master had received it has been told in a previous chapter; but the consequences quences of this to him so distressing intelligence have yet to be related. 
               A week had passed-seven days not easily forgotten by Wilhelm Waldheim. One plan after the other had been adopted, only to be as quickly rejected again. What should he do-which way pursue? To stay in town, with her not there, would be simply torture. To go, and thus, perhaps, lose her forever, made him nearly mad to think of. Poor Jacob got rudely treated at that time, for it was he who had brought on this trouble, Wilhelm unreasonably argued, forgetting that, before he had listened to his servant's advice, he had not been much better off. To the old man's imploring prayer-"not to judge him too harshly, as yet; for the end would sanctify the means"-he lent a deaf ear, and the house was altogether a sad one. A second and a third week went slowly by, when Mr. Waldheim seemed to have resolved. 
               At eleven o'clock in the forenoon, Mr. Gutmann and his wife were surprised by a visit from him. After the usual greetings were over, Mr. Gutmann inquired into the reason of this unexpected honor? 
               "I intend to go to Genf." 
               The lady gave a slight start. 
                
               "To see your daughter," the young gentleman continued, audaciously. 
               "Sir!" 
               "And I am here," he proceeded, taking no notice of the interruption, "to ask you for a letter of introduction to the director of the Institute." He was determined now, and nothing could hold him back. 
               Mr. Gutmann had removed his pipe from his lips, and his features assumed a forbidding aspect. "Mr. Waldheim, your request is simply impertinent. I am sorry to speak thus to the son of my old friend. You are long enough among us to know that I could never do it. You must be well aware, should you visit my daughter, it would only make her be talked about." 
               "My dear sir, be pleased to listen to me. I know all you tell me; but extraordinary cases require extraordinary means. I love your daughter-have loved her ever since I saw her first." 
               "Why have you not told her so, then, long ago, when she was here? My wife and I should not have objected to your becoming our son-in-law," interrupted Mr. Gutmann, somewhat mollified. 
               "She has not given me any encouragement." 
                
               "I hope not, sir! I hope not. Girls in this country rather hide their love, if they feel any, than parade it. To discover it, is left to us men." 
               "You misunderstand me, sir, or I expressed myself badly. Your daughter has given me no chance of telling her my feelings." 
               A slight smile played around the corners of the old gentleman's mouth at the allusion to the dance Caroline had led Waldheim, and of which her parents were not quite so ignorant as she thought. 
               "Tut! tut! young gentleman, this is exactly the charm in these affairs. These fair creatures keep us in suspense as long as possible; and it is our pride to have wit enough to vanquish them at last-to carry their hearts as trophies from the scene of strife." 
               "This is my intention, sir; but I will do it in my own way. I shall start for Genf early tomorrow morning." 
               "Impossible! I am ready to give you a helping hand, but as for-" 
               "I will have no second-hand assurance of your daughter's love to me, if I should have been so fortunate as to inspire such a feeling in her heart. If you mean by your help that you will convey to her my proposal by letter -I shall hear the reply from her own lips, or not at all! I should not have disturbed you-as yet," he added, seeing the old gentleman's brow clouding over; "but I thought it would look more proper to the director of the Institute could he see that you are aware of it." 
               An expressive look from his wife, as if to say, "He will go, one way or the other; therefore comply with his desire," induced Mr. Gutmann to say impatiently, "Well, have your own way." 
               "Thank you; when shall I send for it?" 
               "It will be ready this evening." 
               "Will you not wish me success?" Mr. Waldheim said in a low voice, addressing both parents. 
               "With all our hearts-if it only were done in another manner," Mrs. Gutmann replied in a gentle voice. Waldheim only smiled, and took his leave. 
               Caroline, in the mean time, had not had quite the pleasant feelings away from home she had anticipated. As the first week passed with no sign from him whom her heart yearned after now, since she had no more opportunity to see and to torment him any longer, disturbing thoughts would trouble her, although she tried hard to keep up her spirits. When the second week also came to an end, and in none of the letters from home his name was mentioned, she mused, and asked herself whether she had not gone too far; and whether Wilhelm Waldheim loved her less fondly than she had thought? She grew less bright than was her wont, and remained oftener and longer alone in her room. She was there when a servant entered, handing her a card, saying that the gentleman was waiting in the reception-room. 
               "He has come! he is here!" she cried, and, without another thought, or one moment's reflection as how to behave, following the dictates of her loving heart only, flew down stairs, and was closed the next moment, with a cry of delight, within the arms of her lover. 
               "Wilhelm, my darling, you have come-at last." 
               Passionate kisses were pressed upon her lips, and, with caressing hand, Wilhelm raised her golden locks to his dewy eyes. "Aureola! mine for ever. Let me hear from your own sweet lips that you will be my wife-my own heart's darling." 
               At these words, Caroline recovered herself, and became aware that she had answered this question before it had been put to her. Burning blushes suffused her face; and, with a sob of shame, she unwound herself from his loving embrace, to throw herself, with tears of mortification, upon a chair. 
               In a second he was by her side. Taking her hand gently, he said, in a voice trembling with emotion: "Aureola-for thus I always called you to myself-why these tears? You cannot be ashamed of having acted as your heart has prompted? What can it matter to us, darling, whether we have or have not observed the usual conventional rules? Could you know the indescribable joy I felt when, forgetting to calculate, you opened your heart before me, allowing me to see the stainless love it has in its farthest recess! Dearest, wipe your tears, and let me see only the sweet, smiling face that I was famishing for these three last weeks." Then, raising her head lovingly, he asked again: "Aureola, love, will you be my wife?" 
               A low "Yes" was her answer. 
               "Will you prepare to come home with me to-morrow, darling?" 
               A decided "No" was the response. 
               "Aureola! You cannot mean that you intend to remain here?" 
                
               "Why not, sir?" And the golden head was raised quickly, and the beautiful face showed its most determined expression. "I have been placed here for a year, to improve my French, and here I shall stay." 
               "Do you care so little for being near me, or not, darling?" and his eyes looked reproachfully into hers. 
               "Why not clothe your thoughts in correct language?" she asked, looking mischievously into his face; "and ask-'Can you live without me?' Oh, vanity and conceit! Yes, although I love you dearly, Wilhelm, I shall stay my year out. You will write often, love?" she asked, tenderly, trying to repress the tears that threatened to fill her eyes; "and you will be true to your golden-haired darling? In a year, you will come for me with papa, and then I shall return home with you, our betrothal will be publicly announced, and then-" 
               "Our wedding shall bind us forever!" 
               "That is a different matter, sir," she smiled, tapping him playfully upon his cheek. "I do not choose to speak of that-as yet. You saw my parents before you left Seefeld?" 
               "I did." And he told her about his interview with them. 
               "Poor, poor darlings! We give them a great deal of trouble by our improper behavior, Wilhelm." 
               One long embrace-one deep, long draught from the tender, loving eyes, and-their meeting was over. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               CLEARING HIS MOTHER'S ROOM. 
               THE year went slowly by for the lovers; but, with their eyes steadfastly upon that happy time when they should be reunited not to part any more, they kept up their courage bravely; compensating themselves, until then, with tender letters, in which they expressed their fervent feelings toward each other. Caroline studied diligently, and Wilhelm made use of his time by planning how best to set his house in order for the happy day which would make Aureola his own; for he had no doubt that he would easily induce her to name an early time for their marriage. Her parents were not idle either. They rejoiced to have Wilhelm Waldheim for their son, and that their darling would remain in the city. They resolved that a splendid outfit should be given to her; and, as in Germany it is the bride who furnishes her future home, (from garret to cellar,) Mrs. Gutmann was over head and ears in business. First, the most elegant furniture had to be ordered-a particular set for each room; and Mr. Waldheim had, of course, to be present at these important business transactions, his taste being continually consulted. Then a number of sewing-girls were engaged, to stitch and make up the numerous articles of linen to be used in a complete household. Caroline's mother intended to give her daughter a thirty-six-fold outfit. That means, of every article (as table-cloths, table-napkins, kitchen-towels and hand-towels, linen pocket-handkerchiefs, stockings, and so forth,) thirty-six pieces-the same quantity of pillow-cases, each dozen differently embroidered or braided, hem-stitched or ruffled. The six beautiful beds, each filled with the best and whitest of feathers, cost great labor and attention. Ticking was bought by pieces, and women employed to make it up; besides all the other necessary articles belonging to the domestic trousseau of a German lady. The parents had also a very earnest consultation as to what sum of money should be given as a marriage-portion; for no German girl, whose parents can afford it, marries without bringing a sum of money to her husband, according to her parents' means; which, 'however, she does not consider as her own property, but her husband's. No girl-not even the poorest-marries, without bringing at least a six-fold outfit with her; and if it should be quite impossible for her parents to do so, the future husband supplies it-keeping it a strict secret, if possible, even from his own relations. 
               Mr. Waldheim had made great alterations in his already superb house. There was but one small room that had, as yet, not been touched. Its windows looked out upon the flower garden; and it was the loveliest and sunniest apartment of his dwelling. It used to be his mother's own room, and had not been disarranged since her death. He had dreaded to disturb its peaceful aspect; but the time had come. Four weeks more and his Aureola would return home, and he wished to show her every thing ready for her reception. Mrs. Gutmann and he had decided that the choice of the furniture for that particular room should be left to Caroline, as it was to be her own sanctum when his wife. He intended to remove every thing that was in that chamber with his own hand; and, for this purpose, he entered it one morning. There were the soft, cosey chairs, whose color time had faded; the curiously carved desk, whose secret recesses much had interested him when he was little; the inlaid work-table, with its shelves and small, numerous drawers; the low stool on which his mother was wont to sit; the birds' cages, with no lively warblers in them now, were hanging by their silver chains, suspended from the window-frames; the beautifully polished floor was covered with dust, and the frames of the oil-paintings of his father, mother, and himself (when a boy of ten) were tarnished and old-fashioned. He opened the window, and a gentle morning breeze swayed the lace curtains, yellow from age, and he sat himself on the low stool his mother had occupied so often, listening to the music of birds skipping from branch to branch upon the tall trees outside. Sad thoughts filled his mind as he looked upon the portraits of his beloved parents. He determined that they should be newly framed, and, if Aureola also wished, should always remain where they were now, for in this room he and his future wife would oftenest be. He would take them out of their cases himself, and the old frames should be safely put by, not destroyed. He got up and took down his mother's picture first. This occupied some time, for in former days work was made strong. At last it was done. Jacob was called, and brought an old box, into which, wrapped in soft cloth, they were put. Wilhelm told him then that for the moment he did not need his services, but that he would call him to remove the box. His own likeness was now removed, and next his father's lifted from the wall. He had removed the boards at its back, when he discovered that there was another back. Wondering at this unusual particularity in framing a picture, he wrenched off a piece of the wood, when out fell-a long tin-box. 
               "The tin-box!" he exclaimed, and his heart beat loudly. "What might it bring him-what contain?" There it lay unopened, and Wilhelm looked at it in bewilderment. 
               At last, with almost recoiling hand, he picked it up and tore off the cover. Sheets of thin paper, written closely over, fell from it; and when he heard them rustle to the ground his heart felt drawn as if from pain. He feared to gather them again, for an unaccountable dread took hold of him, and he sat immovable for some time; then, shaking off this feeling of fear, he stooped down, saying to himself: 
                
               "Why fear, before I have reason for it? I must know, sooner or later; therefore at it at once!" He collected the leaves and commenced reading. 
               It was the story of his father's life when young. It attracted him greatly. He finished page after page, smiling at this, laughing at that. Suddenly his face grew grave, his brow knit, his hands closed, his eyes flashed-still he read on eagerly and anxiously; then his features softened again; his look became sad; his hand trembled; his breast heaved; and at last, with a cry of mortal anguish, he finished the manuscript, and, covering his face with both hands, threw himself upon a sofa in inexpressible despair and wretchedness. 
               Hour after hour glided by, until at last he recovered himself. Leaning his head upon his hand, he sighed deeply, despondingly. Despair was written upon his features, and a dreary, hopeless agony dulled his eyes. His lips moved as if speaking, and from time to time a bitter smile curled around his mouth. "Farewell to love, happiness, and hope," he murmured, in a broken voice; "all is deranged-all has fled! Only life remains! A life of disgrace, darkness, and loneliness! Fare thee well, Aureola, my Ray of Gold! O father, father, what a legacy you have left to me!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               SORE HEARTS. 
               JACOB was greatly astonished when, after several hours, he again looked into the room, and perceived that his master was not yet done with the pictures; and what still more puzzled him was that every thing lay as when he had last been there. The frame of Mrs. Waldheim's picture and that of Wilhelm's were removed, but his father's portrait had been evidently hardly touched, except by the removal of a few boards at the back. His master was kneeling on the ground, picking up sheets of closely written paper, folding them, and laying them in a kind of absent manner in a tin box. He neither turned on Jacob's entrance nor seemed to heed his question whether he could be of any use? but kept on mechanically replacing the papers. Jacob now asked whether, as it was dinner-time, he wished to have his meal served? 
               Mr. Waldheim looked quickly up, saying, a little impatiently, "Do not disturb me now, Jacob; I shall be down presently." 
               His voice sounded strangely, and the old man left the room reluctantly, wondering what could be the matter with him, for he seemed to be quite out of sorts. 
               When, at last, Wilhelm came down and took his seat at the table, but neither ate nor drank-took not the slightest notice of Jacob's question whether he wished this or that-keeping his eyes fixed, in a yearning sort of way, upon one place, and looking as if some fearful blight had fallen upon him-Jacob doubted no longer that something dreadful must have happened. 
               "Herr Wilhelm," and his voice trembled with sympathy, "what has gone wrong? For heaven's sake do not look so strange and wild; it pains me, and frightens me at the same time." 
               A deep sigh was the only reply. 
               "Tell me, Herr Wilhelm, that I may help you. It would not be for the first time I found a way how to be of use to you." He took his master's hand, pressing it to his faithful heart. 
                
               "Trust me, dear sir, and confide in me. I would give my life-blood for you, Herr Wilhelm. You must know, by this time, that I would die to see you happy." And a big hot tear fell from the honest eyes upon the hand he held in his own. 
               "Dear, old friend," said Mr. Waldheim, in a voice husky with emotion, "how could I doubt your unwavering devotion? But, Jacob," and the deep, full voice trembled, "your life could not save me from the trial I have to go through. Your faithful heart can avail me nothing in this matter; and the anguish and pain I must endure cannot be averted. Jacob, my engagement with Miss Gutmann must be broken off!" and the stricken man nearly shrieked the last words. 
               "Do not say so, dear master. Surely, you must be mistaken. You are always wont to look at every thing from the darkest side. Disclose your trouble to me, and I will put it to you in a brighter light. Why, to separate from Miss Gutmann would cause you to be unhappy for life, sir. It would blight your whole future-therefore do not resolve so rashly." 
               "My future will be covered with darkness. Nevertheless, as an honest man, I must give her back her word. I alone must suffer, and-this is not all! Go now, Jacob. I wish to be alone: and, believe me, if I thought that any one could help me, I would come to you, my faithful friend." 
               Jacob retired, hesitatingly; but he knew that for the present he could be of no use; yet he swore to be watchful, and, at the first chance that offered itself, he would step in-and even act, if necessary-without consulting his master. 
               The four weeks until Caroline's return passed rapidly by-too fast for Wilhelm Waldheim, at all events, who waited for that day as a man for his execution. How could he tell her of the necessity for their separation? and when? Should he communicate the dreadful news by letter, or by word of mouth? Should he tell her simply that he wished their engagement broken off, letting her believe that his love for her had been only pastime? or should he tell, face to face, and entreat her to have faith in his never-dying love, although they should separate for ever? 
               Those were hard questions for Wilhelm Waldheim to answer, and bitter hours in which to resolve. Meanwhile, their correspondence had been kept up; and, when Caroline wondered dered at the great change she detected in his letters, she pacified her murmuring heart with the thought that her poor, loving darling was at the end of his patience, and that it was full time that she went home. His letters sometimes were cool, wanting the fervor she was used to finding in them, as if he wished to prepare her for the blow that awaited her; then, again, they overflowed with expressions of love and assurances of his never-ceasing affection for her, as if wanting to make up for the shortcomings of the previous missive. He had told her, in his last letter, that he would not accompany her father, as several urgent reasons prevented his keeping the promise he had made to her; but, as it made a difference of only a few days in their meeting, he would try to bear it as well as he could. Oh, if she only knew with what dread he awaited that meeting, she would not have pouted at the "only a few days of difference in their meeting;" but she was ignorant of his sufferings, and therefore wondered that two days, more or less, should make such a slight difference to him, while to her it seemed ages to wait. 
               Caroline was home at last; and her betrothed was announced. She met him with a joyful countenance and love beaming from her eyes; but stepped back, wounded by the apparent coldness of his demeanor. Could she have looked into his soul, and seen the agony and the suffering, she would have taken him to her heart, to soothe his pain with words of love. 
               "Caroline-" He never before had called her by that name. To him she always had been "Aureola;" and she felt chilled by this omission. 
               "Caroline," he repeated again; but, as if choked by this word, he stopped, turned pale, and at last broke out passionately, holding out his hands in pleading supplication-"Aureola, my darling, my love for ever-we must part! I have prepared myself for weeks for this meeting, and gone over the sufferings of this moment a hundred times, though I had nerved myself to be composed and self-possessed; but my rebellious heart will have its right, will not be subdued, and refuses to repeat the lesson I have tried to teach it. Aureola-I give you back your word." He turned away his head to hide the hot tears that started to his eyes. 
               Caroline had listened incredulously to him; but, as if an icy hand had touched her heart, she shuddered when she perceived by his earnestness and the agony expressed in his features that he was serious, and asked in a frightened whisper, "Do you not love me any longer, Wilhelm? What have I done, darling, to offend you? I have loved you truly, faithfully. Only you have been in my mind and in my heart since last we parted; and only you I have ever loved. Oh! do not say that you love me no more, that your affection for me has been only a fancy, swept away by one year's absence." Despairingly she grasped his hand, looking beseechingly into his face. 
               A groan escaped his lips as he looked into the dear face so full of misery, and, with a voice that trembled with pain, he said: "Never doubt my love, dearest; you, and only you, ever touched my heart to its core; you only can make it vibrate and respond; but, nevertheless, we must part. Be strong," he continued, "darling, and lighten the burden that almost weighs me down, by being brave yourself. Whatever happens, Aureola mine, never doubt my love. You suffer because we must part; but I have to carry yet another burden, which is heavier because I have to carry it alone, and that adds to my sorrow." 
               "What makes our separation necessary?" she asked, in a broken voice. 
               "I cannot tell you, dearest; it must remain a secret, to be known only to myself," he answered, sadly. 
               "If you loved me truly you would confide in me," she said, reproachfully. "Do, do, darling; and let me also judge whether our love must indeed be sacrificed?" 
               He hesitated-but only a moment; then he shook his head despondingly: "I cannot tell you." 
               "You do not love another?" 
               "I love only you-you, whom I must give up because I love you too well." 
               "To separate for ever, Wilhelm?" and a pitiful, helpless look came into her beautiful eyes. 
               He only nodded. His heart was breaking. 
               "Will you never tell me why, darling?" 
               "I must not. Why wring my heart," he exclaimed, "that is so sore already? Ah! Aureola, if you knew what it costs me to lose you, my sunshine! my only joy!" 
               "What will you do?" 
               "I shall leave Seefeld again; for how could I see you, knowing that I must not love you!" 
               "Oh! do not go, Wilhelm! For mercy's sake, do not leave the city." 
               "It is best that I should, dearest: you must forget me." 
                
               "As you will forget me," she responded tearfully. 
               "Never, as long as I live, shall I forget my Ray of Gold!" and he took her in his arms, pressing her to him as if he would never let her go; then releasing her with a look of misery and despair, he left the room quickly. 
               Arriving at home, he gave orders to Jacob to get every thing ready for his departure; and, closing himself in his study, he wrote a long letter to Mr. Gutmann, telling him as much as he thought was necessary. 
               When he left his home the next morning he told Jacob to keep him acquainted with all that happened in Seefeld, leaving that mournful old servant directions where to address his letters. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               A PROPOSAL. 
               NEARLY a week had gone by before Caroline could fully realize that she indeed was separated from Wilhelm Waldheim, and that he had left Seefeld never to return to her. No-that she should never have the right to love him, and to call him her husband, she could not and would not believe. Some fearful mystery had for the present come between them, and made it necessary that they should seem as strangers toward each other; but as to living apart forever, that was a thought she would never harbor in her heart unless she were mad and had done with happiness. Thus Caroline kept up her hope and partly her spirits. She would not despair she said to herself, when her heart ached sorely and the days passed on wearily, but cling to the belief lief that this fatal mystery would soon be lifted from them, and then she would laugh at Wilhelm, who so easily was cast down, and triumph at her own courage. Something of this kind she once told Jacob, whom she met in the street, bidding him write to his master not to lose heart, but only remain faithful, and all would yet go well. Tears were in her eyes while she sent these cheering words to the absent one; but, wiping them hastily away, she assured Jacob that they flowed only because she could not make those foolish eyes of hers quite comprehend what her heart told her must be true. "Frequently she had heard, from Mr. Waldheim," she added, smiling sweetly, "how faithful and true a servant he was, and that his master always looked upon him more as a devoted friend than a domestic; therefore she did not mind imparting to him what she so much wished his master to know." 
               Holding such consoling consultations continually with her own self, lecturing her own yearning heart when it was disposed to sink despondingly, Caroline managed to show a bright face to her friends; and, as her engagement with Wilhelm Waldheim had fortunately been kept a secret-for, although people may have wondered dered at the preparations they had noticed, yet when, after, Miss Gutmann's return from Switzerland, Mr. Waldheim departed, and nothing further was heard, the whisperings died out; and, as it is often the case in Germany that mothers prepare their daughters' trousseaux when they are quite young, those grand purchases and splendid orders which had been made and observed, were put down to the forethought of a provident and thoughtful mother-no one suspected that her bright smiles covered a heart ready to break at the least rude shock. 
               Mr. Carl Herder, who, after Caroline's return from the Institute, recommenced his attentions to her, and who, now that Waldheim was away, had all, as it seemed, in his favor, followed up his advantage with remarkable zeal and perseverance. Ever at her side at every public meeting, making Fenster-paraden at a furious rate, he showed clearly that a year's absence had not had the power to diminish the brightness of Caroline's image in his heart. He continued his courting for about four months; but, after that time, being evidently not nearer to the realization of his cherished wishes-although the lady accepted his services as cavalier on every occasion with the most charming of smiles, apparently meant to keep him there, and would not allow him to become more than her most obedient servant; for, whenever his voice assumed a lover-like accent, or his features a more tender expression, the smiles faded as if by magic, and a haughty light in her eyes seemed to warn him not to go farther-Mr. Herder determined, very much against his inclination, to address himself to Miss Gutmann's parents, and to ask them to give him their daughter in marriage. 
               Mr. Gutmann and his wife, having expected that gentleman's proposal sooner or later, and not being averse to seeing their daughter become Mrs. Herder, as-since Mr. Waldheim had gone-this gentleman was decidedly the first party in Seefeld in every respect, even when looked at by the critical eye of loving parents, had considered well the answer to be given. 
               "It was unlucky," Mrs. Gutmann said to her husband, in one of her confidential conversations, "that this proposal should come so very close upon the broken engagement; for, as it could not be supposed that their daughter would already have rooted her love for Mr. Waldheim out of her heart-for Caroline had not been so watchful of her behavior at home as she was when in society-there was, she feared, not much hope for poor Mr. Herder; and it was a pity that it should be so, as there could be no offer so satisfactory in every point." 
               As Mr. Gutmann entirely agreed with his wife, the consultation ended by Mr. Gutmann writing an extremely polite letter to the suitor, telling him that "they regretted to say that, for the present, there seemed to be very little chance of their daughter looking with favor upon any proposal of marriage, as she evidently seemed to have no thought of giving up her liberty; but that, if Mr. Herder's attachment to her was of such depth and fervor as to live out a year, there might be reason to believe that he might then be able to win her love. As for themselves, they felt highly honored by the preference for their daughter; and remained his," and so forth. 
               The next day Mr. Gutmann received an answer to his letter, in which Mr. Herder expressed his certainly that his love for Miss Gutmann was strong and lasting enough to let him grasp at the hope of perhaps winning her after the lapse of a year. "He should wish very much, however, to have this kept a secret from her, as then her behavior would be unbiased." 
                
               Caroline's parents congratulated themselves on their good fortune in having secured a good, honorable husband for their darling; for, they said, "she will marry sooner or later; and after a few years have passed over her first disappointment, her heart will be as buoyant as before." 
               Soon after this event, they proposed to her to travel, and, with glistening eyes, she accepted this proposal: for it had become a harder and harder task for her to pacify her loving heart with only such meagre food as hoping against hope. One thought alone could now give her courage, and that was unbounded faith in Waldheim's constancy; and the new chance of perhaps meeting him in her travels, actually sent her singing about the house. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               IN STACHELBERG. 
               SWITZERLAND, as Caroline desired, was to be the country to be visited first; and as her parents undertook to travel solely for her sake, her wishes were attended to. Whether they should remain a long or a short time at the places they intended to visit-whether they should stop for hours or for months at this village or that town, was altogether left to her decision. She was to do as she pleased. She should lead, and they would follow-anything, so that she benefited, Very capriciously did Caroline make use of her privilege. Sometimes, when entering a prettily situated village, she would rapturously exclaim that "she would not desert this lovely spot for weeks! that she must see all its little paths and pleasant roads, and explore its whole neighborhood;" but hardly a day or two had gone by when she wearied, and her interest in its applauded beauty vanished, and she would restlessly express her wish to resume their journey. Thus it was with almost every change they made: at first the warmest enthusiasm, and soon after a cooling off, and a restless desire to go farther. The reason of this restlessness and want of change sprang from the hope of accidentally meeting Wilhelm Waldheim. As soon as she entered a town or village, her eyes eagerly scanned every face that they encountered; and when day after day passed, and the anxiously sought-for countenance was not found, she told herself that "at their next station, perhaps, she must find him," and urged her parents to continue this hopeless chase. Under these emotions her spirit changed. Bright and lively in the first few days of her stay at a new place, her parents would congratulate each other on having adopted such a wise plan as travelling, hoping that, in the course of a year, Caroline's depression would give way, and her former cheerful and sprightly disposition be restored; but no sooner had they been a short time at a place, than she became sad and silent, and a look of loneliness stole into her eyes, which distressed them, and made them fear that they had rejoiced too soon. 
                
               In this manner they had reached Glarus, the capital of the canton of that name, very secludedly situated, being shut in by the Alps. Mr. and Mrs. Gutmann wondered, after a week's stay in this town, that their darling, as yet, had shown no inclination to leave. Her spirits also seemed not so variable as usual, and, with minds much relieved, they noticed that she seemed even to take a fancy to some of the people of Glarus-perhaps won by their simplicity of manners, which the inhabitants of that town have retained, possibly owing to their comparative seclusion from the rest of the world. 
               Two weeks-three weeks-still Caroline seemed satisfied. Every thing remarkable in the town and neighborhood had been visited and seen; but one day she proposed an excursion to Stachelberg, the exquisitely situated hotel and baths-built on an eminence on the opposite side of the Linth; surrounded by torrents, rocks, and glaciers, and much reputed as a watering-place, with very beautiful environs. 
               Once there, she desired to remain, as the wild country attracted her; and she wished thence to visit the different water-falls, and the paths leading, for a time, through pleasant woods and green pastures. 
                
               She now took short walks every day-sometimes alone, sometimes in company with her parents. 
               One day she set out directly after breakfast, telling her mother that perhaps she might stay away longer than usual, as she intended to cross the 'Pantenbrcke;' from which, as she had heard, a beautiful path runs through woods and meadows. She had walked perhaps two hours, when a turn in the road brought her to a charming little house, built in the middle of a garden. Going close up to the dense hedge that enclosed this little place, she heard the sweet voice of a woman; and then, as if in answer to a question, a child say: "No, mamma; but papa promised to join us presently." Having nothing to do, and being wearied from her walk, Caroline sat down, outside of the hedge, but under its shade. She could not see the speakers, the bushes being too closely intergrown, but she could hear what they said. 
               "When is papa going?" asked the childish voice. 
               "Almost immediately, my son. Ah! there he comes-run, my child." 
               A few minutes afterward, Caroline heard a manly voice, which made her heart beat wildly, and struck terror to her soul. Taking firm hold of some part of the hedge, she pulled with unnatural strength, and succeeded in displacing several branches-just enough to make a small clearing in the fence, that enabled her to observe the little group on the other side of the hedge. The lady-for such she evidently appeared to be-was very pretty, with a gentle, winning face. The boy, about four years old, was handsome, with an open, honest countenance. The gentleman (Caroline nearly shrieked when he joined them) was Wilhelm-Wilhelm Waldheim! only differently dressed from what she was wont to see. He wore the costume of a Swiss huntsman. A green, pointed felt hat, ornamented with feathers of many colors and the beard of a chamois; a short, velvet coat; leather trowsers, buckled at his knees; half-boots, with thick soles studded with nails, constituted his attire. In one hand his stutzer, (a short gun,) in the other the Alpenstock, (Alp-stick.) Caroline sat like one crazed-immovable-scarcely breathing; with a sharp pain gnawing at her heart, nearly amounting to torture. Her eyes were riveted wildly upon the face before her, so like her Wilhelm that there was left hardly any doubt that it was indeed himself. When, at last, he put his arm lovingly around the lady, she could have cried aloud, but her voice refused to utter a sound; and when he said, "Good-by, my dearest wife-at six I shall be with you again; Kiss me, Carl, and be good until I return"-she pressed her hand to her heart, and tears trickled silently down her cheek. He went quickly up the gravel-path, and his wife called after him: "Come back safe, Wilhelm, and soon." He waved his hand, throwing a kiss to them before disappearing behind the house. 
               She called him "Wilhelm," too. "Then there is no hope left! false! false!" Caroline whispered to herself, distractedly, pushing her golden hair from her forehead. "And I thought him so true; so honorable! Now we are separated indeed. This, then, was the secret he was so loath to impart to me! False! doubly false! for deceiving me and his wife. Well, well, I hope it will make it easier for me to tear him from my heart. Now no more travelling, but home to Seefeld again." She slowly got up to return to the hotel. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE LAST HOPE GONE. 
               CAROLINE reached the hotel scarcely knowing how. One thought, one desire was uppermost in her mind-to return to Seefeld as quickly as possible; and she hurried her steps, as if trying to escape from something she was afraid to encounter again. Her parents looked at her in fear and consternation when she entered the room, with a face pale as death, asking hastily, "Is every thing prepared? We must leave for home at once." Then looking around her, anxiously, as if seeking for something, she dropped into the nearest seat, letting her arms fall, as if in great weariness. 
               "My child, what has happened?" cried her mother, coming hastily toward her, and throwing her arms around her. "Why do you look so strangely, and whence your sudden wish to return home? We thought you so happy here." 
               "Happy?" and a bitter smile parted her lips; then, shaking her head mournfully, "Oh, no! no happiness for me, any more. I am tired, mamma. What time is it? When do we leave?" 
               "It is two o'clock, and we can leave in a few hours, if you wish it. We can hire a carriage. Will you not take some refreshment, and try to restore your strength by a few hours' sleep? You have walked too far, and over-fatigued yourself, my child." 
               "Yes, yes," Caroline said, submissively, as if too weak to think or to respond. 
               Her mother conducted her to her sleeping apartment, where she soon fell into a restless slumber-tossing her head upon the pillows, muttering broken sentences, (which the watchful ear of her parent could not make out,) or moaning piteously. 
               The journey home was made in the shortest time possible, never remaining longer at a station than was actually necessary. Caroline urged her parents to reach Seefeld in this-to them-unaccountable hurry. 
               Hardly had they reached their dwelling-place, when her strength gave way, and she fell sick. A physician was called in, who looked long and gravely at the unconscious girl, and pronounced her illness brain-fever-brought on by long pent-up excitement of the mind, and probably induced by a violent and recent shock. For weeks the danger was great, and the physician could give no hope-except that her youth might, perhaps, carry her through. At last his face looked less grave, and more hopeful; and in a few weeks he pronounced her out of danger. 
               Autumn had come now, and Caroline went out for the first time; but how changed she was! The child-like manners were gone, the sunshine had left her eyes, her smiles were rare and mournful; and from a light-hearted, impulsive girl, she had changed into a quiet, composed, sad woman. She was still very beautiful; but, like a marble statue, pale, cold, impassive. Those who once had loved her for her sweet, child-like loveliness, now admired her for her stately grace, her womanly dignity; and many said that she had changed for the better. "The foolish, thoughtless girl, ever ready to play wild pranks, had, at last, become a sensible, well-behaved woman of the world; and her travels had decidedly done her good," they said. None asked after the condition of her heart-whether that too had improved by the change; and none thought of inquiring what had wrought this change. Contented with her exterior, what did they care to know how it was within? whether Spring had departed there, and cold, bleak Winter had taken its place? Those nearest and dearest to her felt the change acutely; and wished, with all their heart, that their darling would again become the wild, impulsive, troublesome girl who, a year ago, had made their life one of excitement-sometimes almost of fear, it was true; but, nevertheless, they would like to have it so again, if only their child would be her former joyous self once more. She never spoke of her travels in Switzerland; and when her mother once alluded to it, she shivered, and, raising her hands, imploringly said: "Please, mamma, never mention it any more. It pains me." She would not explain why: and her parents, at last, concluded that she must have heard something painful about Wilhelm Waldheim, and from thenceforth never spoke of their journey. 
               To Caroline, every thing seemed to be indifferent. Nothing excited her interest or admiration. Conscious of a dull pain at her heart, she had feeling for nothing else. Seeing her friends, and mixing in society as usual, she took and looked at every thing with careless indifference. Unimpressed, she moved like an automaton, unconscious of what was passing before her. The admiration of gentlemen she appeared not to notice; and the love of her friends seemed not to move her. Would she ever marry? "Yes," she answered her mother, who spoke on this subject with her one day; "but not yet; and, as long as the man whom she should marry was a gentleman, and did not expect too much from her, she cared not who he was-so that she pleased her parents." And when her mother remonstrated that these were not the proper feelings a girl should entertain, she tapped impatiently with her foot upon the floor, saying, almost haughtily, that "this was all one could expect from her; and, if she had to feel differently, she would not marry at all-if they would prefer that. Any one her father and mother proposed, or none at all-just as they pleased. It was all the same to her." 
               Her mother was greatly troubled at her obstinacy, as she called it; but hoped that time would heal all; and that, perhaps, these strange ideas were only consequences of her last illness. 
                
               One day, when Caroline had gone out for a walk, she encountered Jacob. A wild impulse prompted her to stop him, and ask him "whether he had heard from his master lately, and where he was?" 
               Yes, Jacob had heard-only a few days ago. He was quite well; and the letter was posted at Glarus, and had been written at a place called 'Stachelberg'-a watering-place, he thought. He wondered why Miss Gutmann said so quickly, "Good-by, Jacob," and left him with such a very strange expression upon her countenance. "Very strange!" he mused, looking thoughtfully after her. "She looks very ill; and is awfully changed-for the worse, I think." 
               "No doubt any longer," she said to herself, while walking quickly home. "Foolish heart," with a bitter smile, "to have hoped still! Yes, yes, Stachelberg-there, at the river Linth, is his home. Yet, I love him still, will always love him, while he-he has forgotten his 'Aureola,' long ago. "Hot tears coursed down her cheeks, and, letting down her thick veil hastily, to hide them from the eyes of Mr. Herder-who, just then, saluted her with a deferential bow-she entered the house, and hurried to her room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               RETURNED. 
               THE winter entertainments of the club had commenced, and Caroline, more than ever surrounded by admirers, reigned as queen. It seemed that the scarcity with which her favors were bestowed had raised their value; and that her smiles were esteemed doubly, since to gain them was such a rarity. To win one friendly look from those tranquil eyes of hers, was a boast not many could make; and therefore the stronger sex seemed to have become mad in their endeavors to obtain what they counted as such a great triumph. Caroline, however, seemed to give preference to none. Ever calm, impassive, and self-possessed, she conducted herself as one whose heart and feelings had been put under lock and key; and neither by look nor word did she show that she was aware of the sensation she created. 
               One gentleman only she appeared to be more pleased to have near her than any other. If receiving a gracious "thank you," for being allowed to hold her bouquet, or handing her a chair, can be called a favor, then Mr. Herder could congratulate himself on being the preferred one among the crowd of her adorers. He certainly counted it an exception to be thankful for, to be permitted always to be with her whenever she appeared in public; and was grateful to receive even that much, where others were either entirely overlooked or haughtily repulsed. His constancy seemed to thaw the ice-crust that, as it were, enclosed Caroline's heart; and, now and then, a sweet smile made him happy, and chained him firmer to his goddess. Never did man serve more devotedly than Carl Herder served Caroline Gutmann; and never did any man receive less for his attentions and yet be more satisfied, ay, even contented with that little-ever watchful of her slightest wish; ever ready to obey her most exacting orders; never tiring, never wearying; and ever grateful for the smallest thanks. 
                
               One evening, at a soire, when Caroline had been more affable, and had smiled oftener on Mr. Herder than usual, he took courage to tell her of his love, to open his heart and show her the intensity of his feelings, kept so faithfully through all these years; and then asked her whether she would not give him his reward, and promise to become his wife? 
               It was a sad look with which she listened to his revelation, and a mournful voice with which she asked him whether her parents were aware of his intentions? 
               "They are," he answered, anxiously watching her countenance. 
               "And what do they say?" 
               "That they would be glad to call me their son." 
               Her lips quivered, as if in sorrow; and she suppressed a sigh before she said: "Can you take me, as I am-cold, fanciful, and capricious? Do you believe that, with all my faults, I could make you happy?" 
               "If you only will be mine I shall be happy. Oh! say 'Yes;' say that you will be my wife! If you are cold now, my love will kindle your feelings; if you are capricious, still I shall serve you faithfully with my whole heart." 
               "You wish it then, and are content to bear the consequences?" 
                
               "It is my dearest wish, and I shall regard myself as the happiest of men." 
               "So be it, then. I promise to become your wife. You must not speak of love-" she cried, almost fiercely, when he would have spoken words of fondness, making him draw back as if wounded. "Forgive me!" she said, softly, laying her hand gently on his arm; "I did not mean to hurt you-but I fear that I have." 
               "Yes, I know, dearest; I think I understand you. You have had so much of these phrases and expressions of love, that they tire and disgust you. I shall be more careful in future. I shall show rather by deeds than words how much I love you, and thus better convince you of the truth of my feelings." 
               "You are partly right-I have heard too much of it. But," and she hesitated-"I shall make you a poor wife." 
               "Let me be the judge of that. If I am satisfied, who will complain?" 
               Mr. Herder was now in the zenith of his happiness. Allowed now to be with her constantly, at her side morning, noon, and evening-walking, riding, and making purchases-he never tired, and saw sunshine everywhere. He presented her with every thing a loving heart could think of; and her room resembled a complete flower-garden, so profusely did he attend to this-her favorite fancy. If she had not been spoiled long ago, he would have surely succeeded in finishing what others had left undone. Words of love and fondness, though ever on his tongue and ready to escape his only too willing lips, he suppressed, fearing her displeasure; and only by his eloquent looks could she judge of the depth of the affection burning within his breast. For this careful avoidance of expressing his feelings in words, she was most thankful; for, had he spoken of them, she could not have borne it. She had heard such words from Wilhelm Waldheim's lips-and what had they meant but deceit? She would listen to no other man's profession of love. 
               Thus time went smoothly on, bringing nothing particularly new in its course, yet to some carrying joy and hopes of seeing their dearest wishes fulfilled. Mr. Herder was near the end of his desires. Four weeks more, and Caroline would be his wife. 
               Jacob was startled, one evening, by the sudden and most unexpected arrival of his young master. Without warning or notice, he had broken upon his quiet home, and surprised his old servant almost into consternation; for there were matters of which he had not informed him in his letters, which now, of course, would be disclosed to him. He was just consulting with himself how he could best prepare him, and had begun already with "There is a ball this evening at the club, Herr Wilhelm"-when Mr. Waldheim quickly ordered him to unpack his baggage immediately, as he meant to go there; and then retired to his room, without taking further notice of Jacob's efforts to retain him a few moments longer. 
               Caroline was crossing the hall in the club-house. She had left the ball-room to fetch a light scarf her mother had forgotten. Every one was in the midst of enjoyment, and engaged in dancing-therefore the hall was deserted; and, except some waiters flitting hither and thither, no one was to be seen. She had almost reached the dressing-room, when a gentleman opened one of the many side-doors leading from the different apartments into which the elderly gentlemen generally retreat after having left their fair charges in the ball-room. 
               "Aureola!" she heard a voice exclaim, and the next minute Wilhelm Waldheim held out his hand to her, in rapturous welcome. 
               At the sound of his voice she trembled with a feeling of intense joy; but directly she remembered all-and stepping back, drew herself up haughtily, saying, coldly: "Sir!" Her nostrils dilated, her eyes flashed the indignation she could not express in words; and her lips curled with contempt while measuring him from head to foot. 
               Wilhelm Waldheim looked into her face with amazement. "I beg your pardon-Miss Gutmann," he said, bowing lowly in mock humility. 
               She would have passed, but he held her back; and, seeing her recoil from his touch, he asked, with ill-concealed pain, "For what have I deserved such treatment?" 
               She regarded him silently, so indignant at his impertinence as scarcely to be able to answer immediately; but, after a moment's pause, she burst forth: "This is heaping insult upon injury!" Then, with cutting irony, "How are your wife and child, Mr. Waldheim? have you left them at Stachelberg?" 
               "My wife and child?" he repeated, in a bewildered manner; "what-what do you mean?" 
               "Ah!" she said, laughing bitterly; "you are an excellent actor, but still I have found you out." 
                
               "I do not understand you." 
               "Do you not? Ah, yes, I dare say it is not very convenient." 
               "So help me-" 
               "Stop! Wilhelm Waldheim," she interrupted him, solemnly; "do not add an oath to your previous sins. You have lied enough," she added, sadly, "but-I forgive you. I had unlimited faith in you, and you deceived me. My mind was young and fresh, and would have remained so all my life if you had not come between me and happiness; and, by your wickedness and baseness, made me old in heart, and blasted my whole future. But-I forgive you; yes, I will try to forgive you." She spoke the last words more to herself, pressing her hand to her heart, as if to still the pain the touching of the still bleeding wound had given her. 
               "These are heavy charges you bring against me, Aureola," he said, sorrowfully. "I might have sworn that oath without its being a false one. I say again, I understand you not." 
               She only shook her head, in misbelief. 
               "Here you are, Caroline," said Mr. Herder, stepping up to them; "and-ah! with an old friend. How do you do, Waldheim? Back again? Well, you are just in time for our wedding. Not so, Caroline-he must be present?" 
               "Your-wedding?" exclaimed Waldheim, turning as pale as death, and taking hold of a pillar-"when?" 
               "In four weeks. This takes you by surprise, but is nevertheless true. Come now, dearest, you will take cold. We shall see you in the course of the evening again, Waldheim?" 
               Caroline bowed coldly, and was led back to the ball-room. 
               Wilhelm Waldheim stood long, staring wildly at the door that had closed behind them; then he sighed deeply, buttoned his coat to his throat with trembling hand, as if he felt very cold, and left the building hastily. 
               "Jacob!" 
               "Sir?" said the faithful servant, who had anxiously awaited his master's return, and seen by his features that he had heard the fatal news. 
               "Shut the door." Then, after his wish had been complied with, "Why did you not inform me of Miss Gutmann's engagement?" 
               "I beg your pardon, Mr. Waldheim; but I knew the pain it would inflict on you, and-" 
               "Do you think it pains me less to have it so rudely told to me as it was done this evening? Sit down," he said, in an abrupt manner, as if it pained him to speak of it; "and tell me all about it-how it came about, and how long she is engaged." 
               "Well, sir, when she came back from her travels-mind, sir, I have all this only from Katharine, who heard it at the fountain; so all of it may not be correct." 
               "Proceed, proceed," Mr. Waldheim said, impatiently. 
               "All in a hurry like," Jacob continued, "for they had intended to remain away a year; but at Glarus, or Stachelberg-I do not know which-" 
               "Stachelberg? Has she been at the baths of Stachelberg?" his master interrupted, with great interest. 
               "Yes; and there she must have seen or heard something that made her nearly mad, for she urged her parents back to Seefeld, never explaining to any one what was her reason for doing so. Directly after her return she fell sick-dangerously ill. It was brain-fever, the physician said. After she recovered she was quite an altered person-haughty and proud. 'One hardly knew, in her, the old Miss Gutmann,' so Lena said. Then Mr. Herder paid her attentions; and, if all is true that they say, this gentleman had proposed to her before her travels, and was refused-flatly refused! Yes, you see, sir, this was before that 'something' she heard or saw in Switzerland. But, after that blow had fallen-for a blow it must have been, to change her so totally as it has done-and Mr. Herder went mad after her again-as all the gentlemen did, for that matter-more than ever, she quietly accepted him: 'to please her parents,' she said. But she does not love him a bit, for all that, I believe; for you see, Mr. Waldheim"-and to impress his master the more with his conviction, he moved closer up to him, laying his finger persuasively upon his arm-"if she did care for him, he could have brought back the sunshine to her eyes, and made that now stern mouth have merry dimples again, as in olden times; he would have succeeded in making her voice joyous and her laugh silvery again. But she loves him not! and therefore he cannot touch the spring that sets her heart in motion, nor create an echo in her breast that answers to his call of love. She remains cold and unimpressive as a stone, and therefore I know that my idea is a correct one. So there, Mr. Waldheim, is a chance once more for you, if you only have the sense to take it; and, if you care for your and her-ay, her happiness-you will take it, and follow the advice of your faithful old servant; and have done with pride-for what else could it be than that? Go to her; clear up this secret that separates you, and let her judge, too, whether your loves and lives should be sacrificed. Yes, I say that she has a right to be consulted. It is you who have made her unhappy, without giving her any reason for doing so. I will speak out my mind now, and not keep back any longer, Mr. Wilhelm, even if it costs me my place," he said, as he saw Mr. Wilhelm look up in displeasure; "and your anger shall not stop me any more. It is a sin and a shame to see you two loving each other truly, and you still persevering in making both miserable. There now," he concluded, "this is all I have to say. I hope, Mr. Wilhelm, you will take it kindly, as it is meant, with the heartfelt wish and hope that my plain speech-for which I beg your pardon-may bring you the good fortune I so much wish you both." With these finishing words, Jacob meekly withdrew from the room. 
               Mr. Waldheim sat in thoughtful silence a long time. He was not angry with the liberty Jacob had taken in lecturing him. How could he, when all was meant so well and honestly? 
                
               He wondered whether Jacob was right, when he asserted that Caroline still loved him; and that perhaps even yet all might be made bright and happy again? But how was it to be done? She was engaged to Mr. Herder: would she-even if he should succeed in convincing her that she had wronged him-break this engagement? And how could he convince her? How? and yet perspiration broke out in large drops upon his forehead, when he thought at what cost he only could do so. He groaned aloud. But suddenly he rose to his feet, exclaiming, "It shall be done! no matter how much it may cost me; and even if I should not win her by doing so. It is her right, and-she shall have it!" he added, wiping the drops from his face. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               ACTED UPON. 
               IF once Mr. Waldheim had resolved on any thing, the deed always was sure to follow immediately. Therefore the next morning saw him, with a resolute hand, insert the key to that particular apartment which he had once, in his thoughts, set apart to be exclusively his future wife's sanctum. His features were firm, and his hand shook not when he took his father's picture from the wall; and, although his look was sad and his breast full of doubts as to the success of his enterprise, he did not hesitate to remove the boards from the back and take from its hiding-place the tin box, which, ever since he had first mastered its contents, had brought upon him such misery. He then rang for Jacob, and told him to have his father's likeness sent to the person who had newly framed his mother's and his own, and have it done in the same style. Jacob looked wistfully at him and upon the broken picture, but refrained from asking any question. Mr. Waldheim-who remarked, and at first intended to take no notice of it-turned suddenly, as if by impulse, before leaving the room, saying: "I shall take your advice, Jacob." 
               "Thank you, Mr. Wilhelm," said the old man, as if some very particular favor had been granted him. 
               Caroline was sitting alone at home; her parents were out, and Mr. Herder had left town, to remain away a few days to look after some very important business matters. Ever since that meeting at the club-house, Caroline's equanimity had been seriously disturbed. Wilhelm Waldheim was constantly before her mind, and the sorrowful look he had cast upon her when she denounced him did not leave her memory a minute. Doubts as to the truth of his guilt harassed her heart; and love-still painfully alive-would plead for him, even if he were the base wretch she believed him to be. A knock at the door startled her; and, to her "Come in," the door opened-and the object of her thoughts stood before her. 
                
               Doubting whether Miss Gutmann would receive him if he should first seek her permission, he had boldly ventured to surprise her. He therefore entered the open hall-door, mounting the stairs quickly, knocked, and-stood confronting her. 
               The blood retreated from her cheeks; her heart almost ceased to beat; her work slipped from her hand; and, as if spell-bound, she looked at the apparition. 
               "Aureola!" and the spell was broken. 
               She rose hastily, trembling violently, but mustering so much strength as to be able to say, in an agitated whisper: "How dare you, sir, intrude thus?" 
               "I beg your pardon-Miss Gutmann," he said this time, though the name came reluctantly from his lips; "but I come in self-defence." 
               "Indeed!" was the cold reply; and a sarcastic smile played around her lips, which were white with emotion. 
               "You accused me the other evening of such vile deeds, that it forces me to disclose what I thought no human being, save myself, should ever know." 
               "Proceed," she said proudly, when he paused. "Since you deign to consider me worthy to be your judge, I am willing to listen to your defence. I tell you beforehand, though, Wilhelm Waldheim, that your proofs need to be strong-very strong, to convince me to the contrary of what my own eyes have seen." 
               "You yourself, Aureola, speak!" he cried, excitedly; "what have you seen? and where?" 
               "What have I seen?" she repeated, contemptuously; "your wife and child-of course; and yourself-caressing them," she added, sadly and thoughtfully, as if recalling the picture that still tortured her heart. 
               "And where-where?" he asked, strangely moved, coming a step nearer toward her. 
               She looked reproachfully at him, and her voice trembled with unshed tears, when she answered: "You must be sure of my love, indeed, that you have the courage to torture me thus-to force me to reproduce the picture that nearly drove me mad more than two years ago. Why pretend, Wilhelm"-and her voice grew tender and sweet, in the intense agony of her soul-"not to know of your home, the pretty little villa, secluded from the world in the middle of a charming garden, surrounded with green hedges? Why try to persuade me that the two hours' walk from the bath of Stachelberg have never been made by you, and that the lovely path that leads across the Pantenbrcke, through shady woods and fertile meadows, is unknown to your foot? What good can all this deception do you? You have fallen low enough-why seek to plunge still deeper into the mire? O Wilhelm! Wilhelm, what have I ever done to you to justify your bringing such dreadful misery upon me?" and, in the recollection of her wrongs, she forgot to conceal the aching of her still suffering heart; and, with joy, he then knew that Jacob was right, and that he still held the key that opened the door to a heart truly his own. 
               "Thank heaven!" he said, as if to himself. "At last I shall be able to search with success." Then taking Caroline's hand, and keeping it firmly in his own, despite her resistance, he continued: "Aureola, you do not, as yet, know the full importance and meaning of what you have revealed to me; but I thank you for it now. You also are still unaware how much you wrong me, but you will soon know, and be sorry for it. Read this," and he handed her a packet, "and, when you have done so, inform me of it; and, if you wish it," and he looked beseechingly at her, as if asking a great favor-"if you wish it, mind," he repeated, with expression, "I shall come again. You will know, when the contents of these papers are clear to you, what I mean. You will then understand my previous conduct; all will then be explained to you, and you shall then be the judge whether-I am to come again." He paused. Then, after an expressive silence, "Will you promise to read this faithfully, Aureola?-for our loves' sake?" he added, in a voice so low as to be audible scarcely to her. 
               "I will," she replied, in a tone as low as his own. 
               When, after a long, ardent gaze, he let go her hand, which now lay passive in his, he noticed that her face was winning and sweet as of yore; that her eyes had lost their hauteur, and that their expression was soft and childlike as when he knew her first, and again he recalled Jacob's assertion that "if Caroline loved Mr. Herder, he could long ago have succeeded in changing the cold, impassive beauty into the bright fairy that she had been, before the blow had fallen upon her." 
               "When will you read it?" 
               "At once." 
               "Thank you!" And when Caroline recovered from the stupefaction into which this interview had thrown her, she was alone. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               A FATHER'S CONFESSION. 
               THE contents of these papers, my dear son, will acquaint you with the events of some years of my life-years of extreme happiness, as well as great misery, to me. They will reveal to you a secret which I have faithfully kept for many years, and which I was in doubt whether I should impart to you at all; but, as it concerns you so nearly, I think it the wiser plan to overcome my repugnance, provide for all cases, and herewith write down what pains me, even after the lapse of many years. This also will explain to you my reason for making a will, apparently for no purpose whatever. 
               When I had reached the age of twenty-three I expressed a desire to travel. My father-a very indulgent parent in many respects-readily complied with my wish; and, after due preparations-for my mother would not allow her only child to depart without having made (as she called it) a proper outfit for him-I left Seefeld. I had been away from home perhaps a year, when my wanderings brought me to Switzerland; a country famous for its wild scenery, destroying avalanches, lovely valleys, honest men, and beautiful women. It was in July, and I concluded to visit Gais, the neat little village known for its "cure of goats'-whey," (Molken-kur,) and its fresh and bracing air; which, especially in July and August, attract many strangers and invalids from all parts of the world. The trimly painted timber cottages of the peasants, converted into lodging-houses by their owners, and scattered irregularly over lawn-like meadows, pleased my eye and won my admiration, and I resolved to stay at Gais until I should be tired of the place. I then began to lay out a regular plan how best to employ my time. Excursions should, of course, be one of its chief features. 
               I had heard that the Appenzeller were great shots, particularly devoting a part of Sunday to enjoy this exercise; and therefore I intended to go there on the first holiday. 
               Shots resounded on all sides as I neared the place, telling me that the rifle-matches had begun gun. Young and old, men and women, were standing or sitting around, eagerly watching the good or bad luck of the Schtzen, ("shooters,") who stood, rifles in hand, laughing, talking, aiming, or reloading. 
               After having taken in the whole of the interesting scene, I seated myself by the side of a venerable, white-haired old man, who, resting his chin on the head of his cane, watched the game attentively. I became aware that, from the other side of the peasant, a pair of brilliant eyes were watching me. I looked up, and met the gaze of the softest velvety-brown orbs I ever had the pleasure of looking into. The minute my look was riveted upon them they were withdrawn, and long, sweeping lashes covered their light. Of course I did not cease my examination, but proceeded to discover more beauty, and was a hundred-fold repaid. A beautiful blush mantled the lovely maiden's brow after having been interrupted in her perusal of my features, and a faint, half-suppressed smile still lingered around the sweet, child-like mouth; the finely chiselled nostrils still trembled, and the dark lashes were slyly raised now and then, as if to be assured whether I had withdrawn my observation. The taper fingers were twirling the corner ner of her apron confusedly, and one of her long, thick plaits of dark chestnut hair was drawn coquettishly over her shoulder, and held by her other dimpled hand. I was charmed, nay more-I was enchanted by this lovely vision. Those fawn-like eyes, so tender and mournful in their expression, stole my heart at first sight; and the entire goodness and innocence expressed in those child-like features made me captive-forever! 
               A long while we sat thus, playing hide-and-seek with our eyes, until, at last, the peasant said, "I think it is time for us to go home, Thekla. Evening is coming on, and the dew will soon be falling. Let us go." 
               "Directly, grandfather. See! there is Seppel. Let us wait for him to accompany us." 
               A frown came over the old man's face, when he said, "Your brother will not go home with us; it is too soon for him." Then, with a bitter smile, "Tavern and cards tempt him, offering more pleasure than he could find in his quiet home." 
               "Please, grandfather, do not think so ill of Seppel. He is wild, I grant you"-a suppressed sigh heaved her breast-"but-" 
               "Never mind, little advocate," said the peasant, smiling, giving an affectionate tap to her cheek; "let us wait a little while longer. You are a stranger here, sir?" he addressed me, after a while; "and perhaps have witnessed one of our rifle-matches for the first time?" 
               "I am, and have taken my abode, for the present, at Gais." 
               "A pleasant place to live in, sir, especially amusing in July and August. Are many guests there?" 
               "Yes; the houses are all full. I came to Appenzell purposely to see your famous games." 
               A smile of pride lit up his face when he said, "Yes, we Appenzeller are known to excel in wrestling and shooting. I myself have, in my young days, belonged not to the worst ones. My name is Horst," he continued, with the frankness that is so charming in the Swiss peasantry. "I am the teacher of this village; this is my grandchild, and that young fellow, whom you may perceive there leaning against that tree, is my grandson, Seppel Stark, half-brother to Thekla Walter here." 
               "A very handsome, fine young man, as well as I can see from this distance." 
               "Yes, yes-'Handsome is that handsome does,'" he murmured, half aloud, but audibly enough for me to hear. 
                
               Seppel Stark soon came up to us. He had a dark, well-cut face; but its beauty was marred by a sulky, discontented look and the long side-glances he constantly threw about him. He scrutinized me with a very disagreeable stare, as his grandfather introduced me, having given my name before. Seppel had merely come to say that they need not wait for him, as he meant to remain longer. 
               "Oh, brother," said Thekla Walter, with the most melodious voice-it was so low and musical-"do go home with us." 
               "I cannot," he answered, a little less roughly than he had spoken before. "I shall come home as soon as I can, however." 
               She looked sadly at him, but refrained from speaking again. He hastily touched his hat, and was gone. 
               "If a bowl of milk, a slice of rye bread, with fresh butter and cheese, will satisfy you, I shall gladly welcome you to our humble home, Mr. Waldheim. There is plenty of time left for you to return to your lodgings before it becomes quite dark." 
               I was only too glad to accept this invitation, especially as I believed that the glance the brown eyes gave me spoke not of disapproval. 
               I need not tell you that I came the next Sunday again, and the next after that, and so every Sunday; and then sometimes during the week, and, at last, each day saw me in Appenzell, an expected visitor at Mr. Horst's lowly dwelling. Neither need I tell you, my son, that Thekla, the lovely girl of seventeen, was the charm that drew me there, nor that the welcome those truthful brown eyes gave me made my heart beat with delight-that her smiles, when I entered, told me a tale which was bliss to my heart, and that each hour I spent in her company brought her nearer to me and rendered her dearer to my soul. The presence of Thekla made me a better, a purer man; for to be with her was to feel, to be good. She ennobled me, and drove from my mind every thought but my most fervent love for her. I had seen and met women, brilliant and witty, who laid me, enchanted, at their feet; but none ever chained me with such unseverable ties as this simple, unlearned, modest, shy girl of the mountains. 
               At last I told her of my love. With beautiful confidence, that doubted not nor calculated how, by coquetry, to draw the net still closer around the loving object, she confessed the feelings she entertained for me, and, with a maidenly blush such as one rarely sees on the cheek of our city-bred dames of fashion, she received my first kiss. 
               I now spoke to her grandfather. He, better acquainted with the ways of the world, remonstrated, asking how I thought my father, rich and high-born, would receive a daughter-in-law out of such a lowly station. "Of respectable family, with beauty that many a lady might envy, of goodness rare indeed," he added, proudly; "but still not endowed with that sort of worth my parents would naturally seek in their son's wife." 
               I granted all that he said, acknowledging my father's unconquerable family pride; but proposed to put Thekla in an Institute for two years, that she might prepare herself for the position she would adorn as my wife, and that we should marry after the lapse of that time, with my parents' consent, or without it, if necessary. Still Mr. Horst resisted, but relented after a week's debate, persuaded by our mutual pleading-or rather, as I always thought, and still believe, because he hoped that a two-years' separation would cool off our love, and that resistance now would only make matters worse. 
               The separation was hard to bear; but the future was bright and enticing, and so it was acted upon. I found a good Institute in Basel, and Thekla's grandfather brought her there. Once in each year, in company with Mr. Horst, I was to see her, and then- 
               Seppel, all this time, had made himself extremely disagreeable to me in every way; at first sulky, then, as I came oftener, rude, deficient even in common politeness, and, latterly, showing a hate so undisguised that I shuddered sometimes when I caught his evil look. Thekla tried to soothe him in her gentle, winning way; but he rudely repulsed her, sneeringly taunting her with her city lover. 
               With many tears Thekla and I had bidden each other adieu, and I had then proceeded on my travels. 
               At each of my visits to Thekla a new charm seemed to have been added to her beauty, and after the whole time of our separation had passed, and Mr. Horst and myself went to take her home, I pressed her rapturously to my heart, exclaiming, "Who but you, my darling, would be so fit to adorn my home, and please the most exalted wishes of my parents?" The bud, promising so much, had opened to the most beautiful flower, and, entranced even more by the great intelligence that shone from her eyes and was throned upon her lovely brow, by the true elegance of her whole appearance, by the gentle and winning grace that distinguished her every movement, than by the beauty of her features, I kissed her again and again. 
               One week I remained with her at Appenzell, then, on the wings of hope, I travelled back to Seefeld to lay before my parents the story of my love and wooing. I had her picture next to my heart, and by its means I doubted not I should vanquish the scruples of my father and mother. I was received with open arms and rejoicing. I was now twenty-six years old, and they impressed upon me that it was fit that I should look about me among the beauties of Seefeld, and select a mistress for the future home which my parents would provide for us without any regard to cost. This was told me on the first evening after my arrival, and my heart trembled when I looked upon my father's resolute face, so unsuspicious of what I was anxious to reveal. My hand lay on my love's picture, and I was on the point of drawing it forth, and of telling them that this was she whom I wished them to take to their hearts, and love not only for my sake, but also for her own, when my mother said, "Carl, it is late; our son must be fatigued tigued. Let us retire. To-morrow evening he shall have an opportunity of meeting the young ladies of our town, and being introduced to her whom we should advise him to select as his future partner." 
               I need not tell you, my son, that these words of my mother struck terror to my heart, and that already I saw the shadow of a fearful storm not far off. They had selected, I might be assured; and I knew what this meant-at least with my father, who, having once made up his mind to any thing, was hard to be persuaded from his purpose. 
               Handsome indeed was the stately beauty to whom I was particularly introduced the next evening. How very conscious she was of her attractions! With what pride and hauteur did she receive the attentions of her admirers, and with what condescension did she bestow her favors! How different from my own darling, so meek and gentle, yet so superior in every thing to the imperious city dame. More than ever I kissed Thekla's picture, and the honest eyes seemed to smile with joy that she was preferred to all. As you may imagine, after a week's stay, I left Seefeld again, after having had a violent storm with my father, to whom I had said that such cold, impassive charms could never attract me, and that in my future wife I looked for more than icy dignity and repelling pride. My father angrily answered that long ago he had suspected that I had entangled myself with some low-born female, but I must not expect, if this was the case, that a pauper ever should enter his house. Enraged, I went away, without having disclosed to him or to my mother the subject so near my heart. 
               Arrived again in Appenzell, I told Thekla and her grandfather all-insisting that we should get married without delay, as I knew there was no hope of my father relenting. Mr. Horst gave his consent, reluctantly, and we were married. Seppel declared that he would not be present at the ceremony, although Thekla tried to shake his resolution, with tears in her eyes; but her entreaties were of no avail. He disappeared; not coming back until we were man and wife. 
               Now a life of entire happiness would have opened before us, if it had not been for the constant letters from home, in which my father confessed to having been too hasty, asking me to come back, and choose whomsoever I pleased in Seefeld: provided only that she came from a good family, he would give his consent. By these missives we saw how useless it would be for us to appeal to my parents' affection, as "a good family" was the chief condition my father made. I say us, for I had no secret before my wife. Knowing that, sooner or later, she had to learn all, I thought it best to keep her informed of my parents' wishes, feelings, and expectations. In the mean time, Mr. Horst died, Seppel was seldom at home, and we two were all in all to each other. 
               After we had been married two years, a boy was born to us. Our joy was great, and now, Thekla thought, might be the time to acquaint my parents with our secret. We discussed this idea, and resolved to act upon it as soon as our son should be christened. We named him Carl Wilhelm, and usually called him Carl; though my wife often would call him by my own name-saying, when I told her that it would please my father to know that we had named his grandson after him, "that she would only give him my name when alone, as Wilhelm was to her the dearest name on earth." 
               One afternoon, we were sitting before our cottage. My wife had our baby upon her lap-its crowing and smiles delighted us, and we were untiring in our mutual admiration of its beauty and intelligence, when Seppel came down the road. A sinister smile disfigured his face, as he witnessed our domestic felicity. He stood a little while, looking down upon our child; and then, suddenly breaking out into a coarse laugh, that grated on our ears, said, entering the house: "What a pity the little fellow is a bastard!" 
               My wife gave a low cry, pressing the child to her bosom; while I sprang to my feet and followed him into the house. "Say that again, villain!" I cried. 
               "I will say it again!" and he opened his mouth to repeat the sentence which had offended us, but I prevented his doing so by seizing him by the throat, nearly strangling him. My wife had followed us, and stood in the doorway with terror written in her countenance, and ghastly in its whiteness. 
               "You scoundrel!" I exclaimed, shaking him violently; "how dare you speak thus?" 
               "How dare I?" He sneered, and his features assumed a really devilish aspect. "Why not, when you are not her husband?" 
               "Explain!" I shrieked, while a fearful thought nearly blinded me. "You liar, you shall suffer for this insult!" 
               "I dare say it would be more pleasing to you if my assertion were false-which it is not, however," he added, after a moment's hesitation. 
               I let go my hold of him. I thought my senses would leave me. What could he mean? He was base, but surely he could not speak thus if it were only invention, and for the mere purpose of enraging me. I looked toward my wife-she had heard all, and believing what her brother had said, though not understanding it, had swooned away. "See what you have done!" I said, pointing to her death-like form. 
               He recoiled, and turned pale; his lips moved as if he wanted to speak; but only for a moment lasted his indecision: then his insolence came back, and he said, carelessly: "She will soon recover." 
               "And how will you prove what you have said?" I asked, while despair filled my heart, and my courage began to fail. 
               "Listen, then, and you may believe me or not-my story is a true one. I always disliked you; but when you won Thekla's love, I hated you, and I swore to be revenged upon you. I have a friend who loved my sister; I had promised her to him, come what might, and he had, accordingly, served me in many ways. You came. You crossed my plans, and took from my friend what was promised to him, and which he had looked upon as his own. We swore revenge; and we have succeeded!" He laughed, with a satanic laugh. "You may remember that our minister was absent at the time you wished to be married. His assistant-whom I knew-induced by me, went to the mountains to visit an old sick man, also a friend of mine. I promised the young clergyman to find a substitute, so that you should not suffer from his absence. The substitute was found; and, as you did not know the real minister-for my grandfather, who was half blind, had been at the parsonage, arranging all-and as both the assistant and my friend-the one who loved my sister-are dark, and tall in stature, it was not likely that we should be found out. The assistant came back from the mountains, heard that the marriage had taken place, and inquired no further into the matter. Now, dare I repeat, what I have said before, that your child is a-" But a blow from my hand felled him to the ground. A terrible shriek from my wife-who had recovered, and who now understood all-had made me half insane, and provoked me to give the villain a blow; which might have been fatal, had he not held up his hand to avert it, so that it only stunned him for a while. I dragged him to the door, locked it upon him, and then turned to attend to Thekla; who, with the child in her arms, sat motionless with despair. I tried to console her with words I did not myself believe; but she only shook her head, and, at last, said, with a voice unnaturally calm and quiet, "Leave me now, Wilhelm; I must be alone with my thoughts." 
               Seeing that words could do her no good, and that she really wanted to be left to herself, I took the now sleeping infant, disposed it upon its little bed, and left the room. Seppel was nowhere to be seen, and I sat upon the veranda with a heavy heart. I doubted not that Thekla's brother had told me the truth. What next to do? It was an impossibility to present Thekla to my parents under these circumstances; for although we might have kept it a secret from them, might not Seppel go still farther, pursue us even to our home in Seefeld, and there expose all? No doubt of it; he was wretch enough not to be satisfied with the wrong already done, but would strive to poison our future still more. Nothing was left to us but to live here in seclusion. I must deny my wife before the world; that meant before the world at home, where I was born, get married again here to satisfy her conscience, and live henceforth for our child alone and for ourselves. 
               For hours I had sat thinking, when a gentle touch awoke me from my reverie. 
               "Wilhelm," said the sad voice of Thekla, "I have taken counsel with myself, and come to a conclusion." 
               "So have I, dearest. Sit here and impart to me first the result of your thinking, and I shall then tell you mine." 
               "We must leave each other, dearest," she said, with a voice full of suppressed agony. 
               "What!" I cried, taking quick hold of her hand, as if fearing she would go at once. "Why? This terrible news has disturbed your mind so violently as to unfit you for judging. Think no more of it at present, darling, and when you are calmer your judgment will be clearer. We can quietly get married again, and live happily in seclusion, with our child and for ourselves. Surely we do not need the world to make us contented! Of course we cannot go to my parents now; for your brother would not stop here in his revenge, but would go still farther, and follow us to Seefeld; but we can remain here." 
                
               "I can remain here, Wilhelm, but you must go. I have thought it all over, and you must listen to me. As you have said, to go now to your parents is impossible; but that we should henceforth live together is just as much out of the question. We might get married over again, true; but the stain would remain. Do you think I love you so slightly as, by my selfishness, to sacrifice your whole future? I am nobody-have no one to consider but myself. I have no relations. You have your station, your parents, and your friends, whom you cannot set aside. If before this blow had fallen upon us, you had introduced me into your family, I should have had nothing to make me blush; for, although poor, there was no blemish upon my name. This is altered-not by our fault, it is true; but this does not change the matter. I cannot be your wife, and it is I who must make the sacrifice. Say no more, love. I am resolved. You are my husband; as such I shall think of you, though the world would not acknowledge you as such: but you must try to forget me, and cease to think of me as your wife. Later, when years have blunted the pain, you must marry." And pressing her hand upon her eyes, she could no longer resist the grief her heart was tortured with, and she broke into a flood of tears, saying, "Oh, Wilhelm, would to heaven that I loved you less deeply!" 
               Day after day went by. I would not listen to her entreaties to leave her. "You have spoken of a friend whom you have in St. Gallen," (St. Gall,) she said, one day. "He is a banker. Send to him a remittance for me every month. Do not doubt that I will accept it, if it were only for our boy's sake. It is not so far from Appenzell, and, if you would ask him, he might even send it regularly to me there. You must never come back to see me; for one separation is all we can bear. Should anything particular happen, I shall let you know. You must look upon me as one dead. After all, I shall have the best of it, darling," she continued, while tears rained down her cheeks; "for I may think of you, love you, and indulge in recalling our happy past, while you must try all to forget me; for you will and must marry, sooner or later." 
               With such words she tried to persuade me, and make me reconciled with my future, while, after each such speech, I assured her that I would never leave her. "We cannot make wrong right," she would then answer; "and wrong it is already that we have not parted days ago." 
                
               One morning, having slept unusually long, I dressed myself hastily and went down stairs. The table was set out neatly, and breakfast was ready for me. I looked about and went into the garden to see where Thekla and the child were. I could not find them. I called her; she answered not. Going back into the house, I noticed a letter upon my plate. A terrible thought took possession of me, but I tried not to believe it. Hastily I tore open the note, and read the following words: 
               "Dearest love, we must part. I wished that you had left me, so that I could have stayed in my home; but since you have so faithfully clung to me-although you must have told yourself that it was wrong-you have forced me to leave you, and perhaps it is better so. Grieve not, dearest; I shall not be very lonely. You will always be present in my mind. Our child will grow up like you. You will always love me, because you must always esteem and respect me. Had I remained with you, it might have become otherwise. Now the pain is great, almost unbearable; but there is no help for it, and we must bear it. Be not troubled. You will find that I have taken sufficient money with me to keep me from want. I did it not only for the child's sake, but also because I knew it would give you some comfort in our sad affliction. I shall also go to St. Gallen for the money you may deposit there for our wants. Do not be too liberal, for I mean to live in a very secluded manner. Later, when our boy needs an education, you may increase the sum, if we are both alive. I shall teach him to think of his father as one of the best and most noble of men. And now-farewell-farewell forever, my love, my joy, my all! forever farewell!" 
               There are situations in life in which words are wanting and insufficient to express the fearful agony our souls undergo. Such was mine. I knew that she was gone, that her sense of right had conquered her love, and that, strong in her affection, she had nobly sacrificed herself. 
               As in a dream, I packed my things and left the house, which was home no longer since she had gone from it. First to St. Gallen to place a sum in my friend's hand, giving him the necessary orders, and then again on my wanderings-whither, I did not care or know. 
               Two years more of restless roaming from place to place, and then I bent my steps homeward ward-only thirty years, but an old man at heart. My parents had grown gray, and my father especially seemed feeble. By sundry remarks they made, I saw that their chief wish was to see me married; but, made cautious by our first quarrel, my father refrained from openly suggesting it. Thus I was left to my own pursuits until I was almost thirty-six. Then my parents freely expressed their desire to see me choose a companion for life, so that before their death they might see me settled in my native place. 
               At that time, my son, I became acquainted with your mother. I believe the resemblance I fancied I saw in her to my beloved Thekla, first attracted my notice. She certainly had the same brown eyes, with the soft light shining in them. Her manners also were gentle and modest, yet combined with the womanly dignity I had loved so much in my own sweet darling of the mountains. We often met; and at last, spurred by the constant urging of my parents, I proposed, and became her accepted lover. The more intimately I knew her the more she won upon me, and I told myself that if any one could soothe the wound which never quite could heal-although, by nature's course, our feelings must lose their keen edge-it was she, with her sweet, unselfish womanliness. We were married, nearly a year after we first met. I should have much preferred a quiet, private wedding; but my parents showed so much surprise when I, one day, hinted my wish, that, not to awake suspicion, I let them arrange every thing after their own inclination. It was, as you may suppose, a grand affair; for it was fit that the only son of wealthy parents should enter into Hymen's portal with great splendor and preparations. Nobody suspected how little I felt like a bridegroom-and whose picture never left my mind on that day; but every one wondered that my face had such a sober expression, and that I did not join oftener in the dance. 
               Time flew by. We grew old together, your mother and myself. She was a loving, faithful wife, who, had it not been for the bitter past and the torturing thought of Thekla, would have made me perfectly happy. Frequently, I inquired from my friend in St. Gallen whether the remittances were called for. I was answered in the affirmative; and this, in some measure, eased the burden upon my mind. After my marriage I doubled the amount, knowing that Thekla's expenses must increase with the increase of our Carl's age. 
                
               Another son was born to me-yourself, Wilhelm. How vividly this brought before my mind that event nearly twelve years back! 
               You grew up a joy to our hearts. When you were about ten years old, your mother had gone on a visit to a friend, to remain several weeks, and had taken you with her. I was alone at home, when Jacob-whom I had taken into my service some months after my marriage-entered my room, saying that a travelling carriage was before the door, and that a lady wished to speak to me. "A lady, Jacob?" I asked. "Undeniably, sir!" was his reply. "Then show her up here." In a few minutes she was ushered into my room. 
               "Wilhelm," said a low, soft voice, whose sound thrilled my heart with joy, and made every fibre of my body tremble with delight. "Thekla, my own wronged darling!" and I opened my arms to receive her with loving embrace. But with eyes from which love-light shone, and lips half parted with a heavenly smile at this assurance that she still reigned in my heart, she said: "No, dearest; those endearments belong now to her who has taken my place. Our love must be of a higher order-must be such as we shall greet each other with in our home above. She makes you happy, love?" 
                
               "As happy as I ever can be, with our past to think of. She is a good woman, a loving, faithful wife, and a devoted mother." A shade of sadness stole over her face as I mentioned your mother's good qualities, and she said, mournfully, "Poor woman!" but at that moment this did not strike me as very singular; for I was absorbed in scanning her features anxiously, detecting traces of great trials there, which made her still dearer to me. "You have suffered much, darling?" I asked, deeply moved by the lines upon her noble forehead, and around her eyes, and the silvery threads which I discovered. 
               Her sweet, tender mouth quivered slightly, as if in pain, but she answered bravely: "To separate from you, and for such a reason, were heavy trials for us both, Wilhelm; but the knowledge that I acted rightly, and that I suffered for you, gave me strength and sustained me in hours of sorrow; and I had much to be thankful for. First of all, our son has grown up a joy and blessing to his mother-like you in manner and appearance, as well as in goodness and nobility of heart." 
               "These two latter qualities," I interrupted her, "he has from his mother, dearest; and they are all her own." 
                
               "He is now nineteen," she continued, only smiling at my praise, "and all that the heart of a fond mother could wish. He has received an excellent education, for he has made good use of the opportunities the best schools gave him. His great intellect grasped at every thing worth knowing; and, by his modest yet manly bearing, he is a favorite with all who know him. Thanks to your liberality, I had always more than we wanted, and I therefore was able to save a sum of money, which allowed me, two years ago, to purchase a pretty little cottage, in the middle of a charming garden. What else could we wish, under the circumstances? and a year ago," she added, thoughtfully, and, as it seemed, hesitatingly, "another great blessing has been added to my happiness, which, indeed, is the cause of my visit to you." 
               "Before you go into details, however, dearest, take some refreshment." And going to the door, I called Jacob. "Some wine, and-Jacob, if any one calls, I am not at home." 
               When my servant had retired, and she had taken a glass of wine, she began: 
               "About a year ago, one rainy, stormy evening, some one knocked at my door. Carl was absent, and my servant engaged in the stable; therefore I opened the door myself. A man, ragged, unshaved, ghostly-looking, entered, or rather, staggered, into the hall. I was frightened, and on the point of calling for help, when he said, in a hollow voice, 'Thekla, do you not know your brother?' It was indeed he. Dying, with no home to go to, he had, at last, found me out after years of searching-how, does not matter. He begged me, for heaven's sake, not to refuse him a shelter, nor to visit his sins upon a dying man. 'It will, at the longest, be for a few weeks only, and then I shall have done troubling any one.' I forgot the misery he had wrought for me, saw in him only my suffering, dying brother, and took him in. For five weeks I tended him carefully, tenderly, truly pitying him when I looked upon his wasted form, and noticed his quickly failing strength. One evening, when I was occupied in his room, smoothing his pillows and bathing his feverish brow, he looked at me long and wistfully. At last he said, 'You are an angel, Thekla; how else could you have acted toward me as you have done?' 'You are my brother,' I answered. 'How could I have acted otherwise, seeing you so ill and wretched?' 'Ah, sister, you cannot have forgotten the past, and the evil I have done you.' 'Let us not speak of it, Seppel; all is over now, and-forgiven.' 'You do not know all, Thekla, or you would not say so.' 'What do you mean, brother?' I asked, and he answered, 'Listen. Sit down close by me, that I may see your face. You say Waldheim is married?' 'He is,' I answered. A groan escaped him. 'Thekla, that story I told your husband on that infernal evening was a fiction.' I sprang to my feet. 'Seppel!' I cried, 'take care what you say-take care! Do not, for Heaven's sake, raise false hopes in my breast. It would kill me. I could not bear it, I have suffered so much already.' 
               "'I am a dying man; why should I lie now? I have no more to hope, nothing to gain or lose. You are the only being I ever cared for, and you I have wronged the most; but I did not mean all the harm my story wrought. Sister, I swear to you I did not dream that the consequences would be so terrible!' he cried, excitedly. 'What I told your husband was all true, save in one point-you were married by the real assistant clergyman!' 
               "I heard no more. The heavy load of shame that hitherto had weighed me down was suddenly lifted, and proudly I now could raise my head; for I was again a wife. This thought alone resounded in my ears, in my heart, in my brain, through my whole body, and, with tears of joy, I pressed my brother's hand again and again to my breast. 'Prove it, Seppel-prove what you have told me!' I cried, after I had become somewhat quieter. 
               "'Every thing,' he continued, 'had been planned as I told your husband-against my wish, I assure you, although I would have gladly done all the wrong to Wilhelm Waldheim that was in my power; but here I could not injure him without harming you even more. But I was in my friend's power-how much is not now necessary to state; sufficient it is to mention that I had to do as he desired. I promised, and even pretended to be just as anxious to play the trick as he was; but I resolved to counteract his design. When the time came for the assistant to depart for the mountains, I detained him, saying that one hour sooner or later would make no difference to the sick person, and that I would take it as an especial favor if he himself would perform the marriage ceremony. He was easily persuaded. To witness the ill-suppressed rage-for he dared not show it openly-of my friend, when, entering the vestry, he perceived the clergyman, in clerical attire, ready to step into the church, was terrible-all the more as he could not then vent it upon any one. There was no help for it; he had to retire, and you were legally married. All this time I had had no revenge upon your husband, and the thought worried and vexed me almost beyond endurance. One day I had been particularly ill-treated by my friend-abused and taunted past bearing. My heart was filled with evil thoughts when I came down the road, and seeing Waldheim, with a happy, smiling face, beside you, as if mocking me in my misery, a devilish thought struck me-and you know what happened. The exultation I felt when I saw your husband's face disordered with the great agony he felt at my fictitious story, was greatly lessened when I noticed your terror-stricken countenance. I went away, after your husband had kicked me out of doors, your death-like face of that evening haunting me constantly; and after three weeks of restless wandering, I came back to tell you the truth; but you were gone, and the house was deserted. I waited and searched in vain for either of you to return. None came, and the thought became conviction that I had done more harm than I had intended. From that time I became worse than I ever had been, and, to drown my remorse, threw myself from one dissipation into another, until my health gave way, and, after years of degradation, I found you. Can you forgive me now?' 'Are you really sorry, Seppel, for what you have done? Does it grieve you to have brought trouble upon Wilhelm Waldheim?' 'I repent, sister, and would give much to undo all.' 'Then, brother,' I said, 'I forgive you.' 
               "It is more than a year ago since my brother made this confession. Ten months ago he died. What should I do? This thought troubled me greatly. Should I keep it to myself, and leave you untroubled by-what must be to you-a new calamity? I wavered, resolved, and hesitated again. Had it not been for our son, you should never have known of this discovery; but we owe it to him. I have borne my disgrace secretly and uncomplainingly, but he-should he ever become aware of all the circumstances, would he stand back, and not ask for his right? Although he has not the slightest suspicion that his father is not dead-and I myself shall never tell him to the contrary, for he is happy as he is-might he not, by one of those strange chances which so often upset our most cautious plannings, hear the truth? Therefore, I thought it best to come to you, and not trust my story to a letter. Why should we not let matters remain as they are, Wilhelm? Why give people opportunity to talk, when, between ourselves, we may arrange every thing so as to satisfy our own conscience? Accordingly, I propose that the lady who is now known to the world as your wife, shall keep her place. Why should she and her child suffer for the crime my brother has committed? Why should she feel the pain, the sorrow that I had to battle with and to endure? She is good, you say, and makes you happy. I have borne in silence when I thought disgrace was upon me and our child; and now the grief, dulled by time and lightened by the knowledge of there being no blemish upon our name, will seem as none to me. Our life, Wilhelm, is half spent," and an angelic smile lit up her features-"only a few years more, dearest, and we shall be united again. But," she continued, "to provide for all cases, we must sign a written contract, in which we mutually declare our union as dissolved; none can then molest your present wife or younger child. Make a will, leaving all to her son; and-" 
               "And thus disinherit our child, Thekla? No! noble woman," I cried, hardly able to repress my tears; for her generosity, her entire self-denial, nearly made me bow down and worship the ground upon which she stood. "I shall divide between my two sons-" 
               "And doing so," she interrupted, calmly, "expose all; lay before the world our secret; disgrace your younger son; while, if you follow my advice, nobody will be disgraced. For, although what we call disgrace, in this case, is merely the opinion of the world-which does not count in the next world, as long as we suffer not by our own fault-it must, nevertheless, be considered, for your children's sake." 
               I could say no more. She had conquered again. I loved you both, and grasped at the means held out to me to save you. 
               She proceeded: "You will leave a letter to your younger son, in which you can privately name a sum to be paid to our Carl. Not too large, Wilhelm, for he now has all he wants; but to satisfy yourself. I know it will ease your mind, to have provided for him. It is not necessary that you give an explanation why you wish your son to do so: tell him to deposit the money in Glarus. I shall arrange the rest. The two brothers must never see each other; for, by this painting on your wall here, I see that there is an extraordinary likeness between them-so much so, that, when they both are grown up, one might be mistaken for the other; therefore, if they should meet-especially if you give only half explanations in your letter-your younger son might have wrong ideas of the whole case. And now, dear love, farewell. We shall meet once more, never to part again." 
               She had gone. Let me draw a veil over the following hours. Shrined in my inmost heart must remain the feelings that filled my soul after that angel had departed. 
               Your mother died, ignorant of all. You grew up, unsuspicious of the danger that had been averted from your head by the hand of a woman, so noble and good as to be worthy to be counted among saints. But I cannot leave this world, my son, without informing you of all. I cannot allow that her sacrifice should not be known and well understood by you, whom it touches so closely, and who will benefit so much by her generous conduct. She has left this earth, and is gone to a world where she awaits me. Seek your brother. He must be in Glarus, I suppose. Give him fifty thousand gulden. Let it come to him openly, or in disguise-as you see fit. I leave every thing in your hands, and confide entirely in your honor. Remember her who was my wife, but, to save you, renounced her right, of her own free will. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               SUSPENSE. 
               CAROLINE'S tears flowed freely while reading old Mr. Waldheim's confession; and when she had finished and laid by the manuscript that so deeply had affected her, she said sadly and thoughtfully: "Poor, noble woman, and poor, fainthearted Wilhelm! how little did you understand the depth of my affection for you, that you doubted its strength even with so great an example before you-that of your father's wife. Or, was it your pride that has brought the sufferings of so many years upon us? Was it that your love for me was inferior to that quality whose existence alone should have shown you that the love you professed for me was not free from selfishness? You thought of yourself only; and did not think, in your sorrows, of the grief that your resolve would bring upon me. Yet, one thought of gladness is left, which fills my heart with joy-that your pride, after all, had to give way, and let love win the day, when you feared to lose me forever; when you saw that another would soon call me his own; and when you had to tell yourself that then you could hope no more. This brought you back upon the road you had so foolishly forsaken, and forced you to let me have my right. You forgot, Wilhelm Waldheim, that the superior always must make room for the inferior, and I triumph in your defeat." 
               Her face was wreathed in smiles, and her eyes flashed the delight she felt, after she had come to this conclusion. But soon the glow of exultation faded from her countenance, and clouds of doubt settled upon her brow, when the image of Mr. Herder-her intended husband-presented itself before her mind. Her heart beat uneasily within her breast, and her fingers interlaced themselves in mute perplexity, when the question, What to do with him? arose within her. That she had to tell him all-as much as she herself was concerned-she at once resolved. This must be done without delay; but, how to do it? and what would be the result? Those thoughts weighed heavily upon her mind, and made her tremble. Would he not ask why she had not previously told him of the engagement that had existed between her and Waldheim? and might he not keep her to her promise to become his wife? Or would he release her, and generously forgive the wrong she had done him? And her parents? She grew dizzy when she pictured to herself all that she had to go through, if she should take notice of the contents of the papers she had just read. Her courage failed her, and for the first time in her life she felt weak in spirit and unable to decide on the spot. Once or twice the thought occurred to her if it might, perhaps, not be the best thing to let matters have their course, send back the papers to their owner, and tell him, "Too late." Only for a moment, however, did she harbor such a thought; for reason told her that to take this last step would bring unhappiness upon every one interested in the case, but that to follow her first inclination would certainly create sorrow to some of them, but only such as time, and perhaps other ties, might heal. Thus, in undecided confusion, she spent the day; and when evening came she had made up her mind so far as to await her intended's return, speak first to him, humbly ask his forgiveness, leave the decision in his own hands, and rely on his generosity and his love for her, which, if true and unselfish, would not allow him to sacrifice her feelings for his benefit. Carl was a gentleman, she said to herself, a man of high honor; moreover, she believed that her welfare had, so far, always been first in his consideration; and, therefore, she would pluck up her courage and appeal to his heart in the manner she so well understood, if she willed it. The thought of her parents also troubled her greatly, and her heart was heavy with thinking of the grief and pain this news must bring to them. 
               Wilhelm Waldheim waited in a state of mind not easily described for the result of what he had done. Perplexing questions as to how Caroline would take it troubled him and chased his blood in feverish restlessness through his veins. He had told himself that by evening he might expect an answer. But day waned into twilight, and twilight deepened into night, without bringing any missive. Then despondency overmastered him, and he sat half the night in gloomy silence, trying to console himself with the idea that she must consult with her own thoughts, and that she would not give a decision too rashly in a matter of such great weight. Day broke, and he hoped again. Although he could not reasonably expect an answer before the end of the morning, he still started at every sound, and several times opened the hall door himself when the bell rang; but this day also went by, and still no answer from Caroline. How he spent the next following he could not have told; for a kind of stupor held his senses, and he was unconscious how time passed. The third day-yet no better result. Had she read the manuscript at all? Had she, thinking to get sooner rid of his presence by promising to accede to his wish, told him that she would read it, and, after he had left her, laid it by and forgotten all about it when Mr. Herder had returned? Well-he would wait another day, he told himself dejectedly-would bear the torture of suspense still longer; but then he would send Jacob for the papers, begging her to return to him what he had foolishly fancied might interest her sufficiently, at least, to read. 
               Jacob-old, devoted Jacob-how did it fare with him all these weary days of his beloved master's trial? Although Wilhelm had not told him exactly what he had done, he nevertheless had a pretty correct guess as to the consequences of the lecture he had given to his master on that evening when he had returned from the club-house. Wilhelm had, moreover, plainly told him that he would act upon his (Jacob's) advice; and the old servant had noticed that, besides taking the box from its hiding-place, Mr. Waldheim had after that dressed with unusual care, leaving the house with a serious face, and, after perhaps an hour's absence, had returned with a countenance not altogether despairing. All this faithful Jacob had noticed, counted up, thought over, and formed the shrewd opinion that the contents of that box must be now in Miss Gutmann's possession, in order to decide whether his master should or should not be her future lord and master. From the disconsolate bearing of Mr. Waldheim these last days, he judged that this decision had not yet come, and that Mr. Waldheim looked upon this delay as a bad omen. 
               Jacob had hitherto listened to the news Katharine brought from the fountain, in a condescending manner, apparently more to please the cook than that he himself cared much for it; and although many a narrative had interested him as much, perhaps more, than it did the person who made it, neither by look or word had he shown the interest he took in them. Now he determined to suppress his pride for once-in order that his master might benefit by it, and perhaps get some ray of light whereupon to live until he would hear from the young lady-and learn from Katharine whether Lena had had nothing new to gossip about her mistress's house. Therefore, the fourth morning after Wilhelm Waldheim had been at Caroline's house, Jacob visited the kitchen, and astonished the servants by an amiable inquiry after the news, adding graciously, that of late Katharine had had so little to say to enliven the house, and that he really was curious to know what might be the cause of her unusual silence. 
               The cook, who just then was lifting from her head a heavy water-tub whose metal hoops shone like gold upon the snowy boards, drew herself up proudly, and, with a self-conscious smile, winked her eyes, saying, that since Mr. Herder had been away there had been nothing remarkable going on in the Herr Stadtshultheissen's house-(the affairs of other households she knew well enough not to molest Jacob's ears with; for she was by this time wise enough-with another wink-to know what interested him and what not)-but now, Lena had said, since the Herr Brutigam (bridegroom) had returned, there were frightful ful scenes acted at her master's house. Miss Caroline seemed to have returned to her old impish ways; for she set the house on fire by her obstinacy, coaxing, crying, smiling, caressing, and pouting. What it all was about, Lena could not find out; but certain it was that Miss Caroline's parents were in awful humors, and Mr. Herder seemingly did not know which part to take. He evidently sided with the old people, but dared not confess it; for the young lady overwhelmed him with the wealth of her amiability, clung to him in such a bewitching helplessness of despair, that, against his inclination, he always again yielded to her wishes; for which she rewarded him with ravishing glances that would make a proselyte of the most enthusiastic antagonist, let alone a man so entirely over head and ears in love as he was. 
               Jacob had listened with great attention to Katharine's recitation, smiling patronizingly at her hints and repeated winks, and left the kitchen with a lighter heart than when he entered it, proceeding to his master's room, rubbing his hands gleefully when he thought of the balsam he would pour soothingly upon Herr Waldheim's troubles. After busying around a little while, moving bottles and pipes from their proper places to wrong ones, he said, "So Mr. Herder has come back at last." As no answer followed, he gave a silver mug, which he was holding in his hand, an extra rub to make the shining metal still brighter, and went on: "If all is true that Katharine told me just now, then Miss Gutmann has returned to her former self-putting her home topsyturvy by one of her obstinate fits." Here he gave a side glance toward his master, and perceived, with satisfaction, that his pipe had been removed from his lips, and that now, as Jacob stopped speaking, an annoyed frown passed his features, as if vexed with the interruption. "Yes," Jacob continued, "Lena said that crying and coaxing, pouting and making up were just now the order of the day ever since her Brutigam's return; but the reason of all this fuss the inquisitive servant could not discover as yet. My opinion, however, is, that Miss Gutmann has somehow got it into her head to break off her engagement with Mr. Herder, and that, as a matter of course, her parents are dead set against it. That she sways her intended to her own will is pretty evident; for Lena says that, although, as she thinks, he rather sides with her parents-and I think he would in this case-Miss Caroline, bringing ing the whole force of her winning loveliness upon him, fascinates him into taking her part, though his heart must cry out with pain, and that the sacrifice she asks of him-or, rather, would bewitch him into-is almost too great for him to make." 
               "Jacob, you speak upon matters you understand nothing about; and it seems to me that old age makes you fond of gossiping." 
               "I beg your pardon, Herr Wilhelm; perhaps you are right," said the old man, withdrawing from the room, but rejoicing; for it had not escaped his watchful eye that Mr. Waldheim's clouded brow had cleared while he was speaking, that the sound of his voice had a ring of relief in its train, and that his master had not interrupted him until he saw that he was in possession of all the news. All this told his faithful heart that his mission was crowned with success, and that his master was somewhat comforted. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE CORD SEVERED. 
               FRULEIN Caroline, Mr. Herder has come, and is inquiring for you," said one of the servants, entering the room in which her young mistress was sitting. 
               "Tell him that I shall be glad to see him." A bright flush dyed her features-then retreated as quickly, leaving her very pale. The moment for decision had come, and she must give pain to the man who loved her so well. Caroline had come to honor Carl Herder very much. How could she help esteeming and respecting one who so unselfishly had given his whole heart to her, asking nothing, yet lavishing so much upon her? Therefore her womanly feelings revolted from the blow that she knew would be so hard, yet which she was compelled to deal. 
                
               With eager step, her intended entered the apartment, and, with shining eyes full with tender feelings, embraced her. "You look pale, dearest?" he asked, anxiously. "May I attribute this to your having been wishing for my company?" and a happy, half-expecting smile played around his lips. 
               Caroline turned her head away, and an expression of great pain passed over her lovely features. 
               "You do not seem glad to see me back again, dearest?" And his voice was sad, and his hand loosened the clasp around her form. 
               "Forgive me, Carl. I am both glad and sorry to see you; for-" 
               "For?" he repeated, questioningly. "What troubles you, darling? Confide in me, and if it is in my power, I will help you. That you must certainly know. You know that I would die for you if it would benefit you." 
               "Ah!" thought Caroline, and a deep sigh escaped her, "it is a far harder task than I thought. How can I have the heart to go on to hurt his faithful mind so deeply?" 
               "What brings these tears into your eyes, which are made for smiles only, dearest? Come, tell me, and let me share your trouble." 
               "I am unhappy, Carl-very unhappy!" and the tears, which had been slowly gathering, fell now in large, hot drops from her eyes. 
               "Can I not make you again happy?" 
               "You could, Carl-yes, you could," she repeated, sadly and slowly; "but-would you?" and she riveted her gaze earnestly upon his countenance, as if searching there for some sign that might let her hope; but she withdrew it, sighing deeply as she read there only love, fervent love. 
               "Are my looks so very unpromising? Do they give you no confidence, Caroline?" he asked, smiling at her perusal of his features. "Can you not believe and trust in me?" 
               "You torture me by your tenderness and fondness," she murmured, leaning her head upon his shoulder, and sobbing as if her heart would break. 
               At once he loosened his hold and let her go. "There, dearest," he said, in a pained voice. "I forgot-" 
               "Oh, Carl-Carl, you misunderstand me! Come to me. I did not mean that. I have hurt you with my thoughtlessness!" And she held out her hands as if in supplication. "Have patience with me; for mercy's sake, have patience! You know not how much I suffer!" 
                
               He was by her side in an instant, and, with caressing words, tried to soothe her. "You now must tell me all, dearest; for I cannot see you thus miserable. Do you not know that I love you?" 
               "How much do you love me, Carl? Is your love for me so strong as even to sacrifice it, if need be?" and she scanned his features eagerly, waiting breathlessly for his reply. 
               "But is there need, Caroline?" and he, in his turn, now watched her closely, asking quickly, as she did not answer, but cast down her eyes: "For heaven's sake, do not keep me in suspense. You cannot really mean what your words seem to imply? You do not intend to tell me that I must not love you any longer?" and his breast heaved in wild emotion, and his hand almost pained her, so strong was its clasp. 
               "No," she said, slowly and impressively; "I wish you to love me always-as-" and she looked tenderly into his questioning eyes- "as a brother." 
               "I cannot! I never could love you with another love than that I feel now for you!" he exclaimed, almost savagely, and, springing from his seat in sheer despair, "Caroline, why this change? Whence comes this sudden wish?" 
                
               "Carl," and her voice was soft and tender, her eyes full with tears, and her mouth trembled with pain, "this is no sudden resolution, as you think. Sit here by me; let me hold your hand, that I may believe you are not angry with me, and I will tell you all." 
               He complied, saying, in a resigned manner, "Commence." 
               "Some years ago I was engaged to Wilhelm Waldheim." She paused. 
               "Go on!" he said, almost inaudibly. 
               "I will not go into details, but simply state facts. We loved truly; but circumstances arose that made it necessary for him-at least, so he believed-to break our engagement. I continued to love him with my whole heart, although he never had given me his reason for desiring that we must separate. I had unlimited faith in his love, truth, and honor, thinking that there must exist, for the present, some cause that made our estrangement necessary, and hoping that the future would make all right again. Then a time came when I thought I had a right to think him faithless and false, and I resolved to forget him. I never succeeded. My heart was forever in his keeping. You came-we became what we are now. You remember how I warned you, but you would not be warned. You were neither afraid of my coldness nor of my want of feeling, hoping that your warm affection would kindle a like flame in my heart; but, dearest, I knew it could never be. Now, every thing has been cleared up between Wilhelm Waldheim and me. I know how greatly I wronged him, and how faithfully he always has loved me. He has been here while you were absent, merely to bring me some papers, which fully explain and justify the whole of his past conduct. He left the decision for our future entirely to me; and so, Carl, I come to you and ask you to forgive me, and-set me free. You have won from me all the love I could ever give to man, except to Wilhelm Waldheim-the love of a faithful friend and of an affectionate sister. My heart will bless you forever, and thank you for your generosity and forbearance towards me, who must hurt you so deeply. Dear Carl," she continued, and her tearful voice trembled, "shall it not be your loving hand that will give back to my starved heart the light and sunshine that it has craved for so long in vain?" 
               How was it possible for him to see the beautiful supplicant thus bowed before him in misery and not give her the boon she so beseechingly ingly asked for? How could he withhold from her, even if it should turn his future life into darkness, the granting of the prayer that would bring back to her, youth's richest treasure-the power and means to enjoy life by a heart buoyant and fresh, and a spirit unclouded by shadows and troubles? How could he have the heart to crush the budding hope that made her eyes sparkle, and brought back upon her pale cheek the flush so delicate and lovely? Therefore he said-but his voice was broken, and his lips compressed with the effort it cost him: "Darling, I love you too well not to wish to see you happy; and it is out of my great love for you that I am able to say, 'I give you back your liberty;'" and he laid his head upon his arms, and his frame shook with the excess of his deep emotion. 
               Caroline leaned over him, and, carrying his hand to her lips, said, softly: "I thank you from my heart. Never shall I forget your great sacrifice; and, when once you have come to feel for me a brother's love, I shall show you that the love of a faithful sister is also worth having. One other favor I have to ask-will you grant it?" 
               "Whatever it may be, I grant it. The worst is over, and every thing else will seem as child's play. What is it?" 
                
               "Will you intercede with my parents for me? I fear to tell them, poor darlings." 
               "I will-but not now, Caroline; you must not ask too much at once." 
               "Not now, if you prefer waiting until tomorrow; but longer I should not like to wait." 
               "I understand," he said, and he could not quite repress the bitterness his retort implied; "Mr. Waldheim expects his answer." 
               "Dear Carl," she said, gently laying her hand on his. 
               "Forgive me, Caroline," he said, wearily; "I am but human, and I have not yet schooled my heart to bear the pangs it necessarily must now endure. And now, my love-my own no longer-farewell!" and with features, upon which were written the terrible conflict of his soul, he left her to herself. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               AT LAST. 
               THE interview between Caroline and her parents was necessarily a very painful one; and though Mr. Herder, against the promptings of his heart, but guided by the reproachful or grateful looks, as the occasion might require it, of his recent betrothed, conducted himself as well as could be expected, and supported his painful part as stoutly as it was possible for him, considering the circumstances, Mr. Gutmann insisted on having explained why he, Carl Herder, after having professed such great love for his daughter, now, all at once, wished to break off the engagement? And the old gentleman made some pretty severe remarks, which, at last, induced Caroline to change the whole aspect of the case, by boldly coming forward and explaining "that it was not Carl who wished it, but she herself; and he"-and she looked proudly and lovingly at him-"because he loved her so well, had yielded to her entreaties, sacrificed his heart's greatest desire, and nobly given her back her liberty, as he wished to see her happy. And she hoped," she added, while tears of deep gratitude welled up in her eyes, "that her parents would do no less than profit by the generous example of him, whom, after themselves and Wilhelm Waldheim, she must always love and honor the most in the world." And then she went up to him, clinging lovingly to his arm. 
               Her parents were astonished at the turn matters had taken, and desired to know what Wilhelm Waldheim might have to do with this; he who, years ago, without giving any sufficient reason, had, of his own free will, broken his engagement with their daughter? 
               Then Caroline told all-as much, at least, as she thought proper at the time; and Mr. Gutmann growled and grumbled, and puffed away at his pipe at a most furious rate, thereby showing plainly that, although the first storm was over, the sea was not yet quite pacified; so that Caroline had to bring forward all her most persuasive forces to smooth the waters so violently and abruptly ruffled. This was the time of which Lena had spoken at the fountain, and this the news with which she had entertained her fellow-servants, and which soon was to startle the whole town, set idle tongues talking, and provide food for Kaffee-visiten. 
               Carl Herder remained a daily visitor at Mr. Gutmann's house-a very exceptional case; but Caroline wished it, and he himself was happy to have at least the opportunity of seeing her often, and of receiving what he never was able to win from her during their whole engagement, unrestrained affection and entire confidence; and although he found pleasure in the change in her manner-so loving, clinging, and trusting now-still he sighed when he thought what had created this revolution in her whole being, and often he would look sadly at her when thinking of the time when Wilhelm Waldheim would be allowed to enjoy all the rights he had to lay down in order to install him in the place in which he himself had been so happy-doubting seriously whether he might have strength to witness their entire happiness. 
               Not quite so soon were his worst fears to be realized; for Caroline, with true womanly tact, delicacy, and forethought, had laid down a plan for herself which she was determined to put into action. Good, noble Carl should reign supreme many months yet, and should not be put away with in haste, and wounded by seeing her lavish endearments upon another which so very recently only he had a right to expect. She would show him that she esteemed what he had done for her too highly to hurt him by putting, as it were, a tombstone upon the grave of his hopes, and then go and rejoice with the living. No, he should be first, if not in her heart, at least before the world, yet awhile, and then, when he had become more familiar with the thought of looking upon her as an affectionate friend, and become accustomed to think of her as one who soon would form other ties, she would allow Wilhelm Waldheim to come forward and claim her as his own. Carl Herder had sacrificed himself as few men would have done, and in such a beautiful manner, remaining her friend in spite of all; and she would, at least, let him have a year to recover from the blow she had had to deal. One interview she would have with Wilhelm Waldheim to apprise him of what she meant to do: she knew that he would see that she was right, and also appreciate her motive for acting thus; but if he would not accede to her wish, she would tell him that he need not, but that she certainly would. However, she feared not. Waldheim was good and noble himself, and would support her in doing her duty. 
               A week had passed, and every day that Mr. Herder came to visit Caroline he trembled lest he should meet Waldheim; but, as yet, the coast had been clear, and he saw that he had not yet been supplanted. At last he could restrain himself no longer, and asked her openly whether she had seen Wilhelm Waldheim. 
               "Not yet," Caroline answered; "but I sent him a note to-day, telling him that I wished to speak to him." 
               Mr. Herder turned away to suppress a sigh that involuntarily forced itself to his lips. "At last! at last!" he murmured, dejectedly. 
               "Come here, Carl: you must trust me, and believe me when I say that though you have outdone me in generosity, you shall see that I will do all I can to lessen your trouble and to spare you all unnecessary pangs. Will you believe what I say, although just now I cannot tell you what I mean to do?" 
               "I will, Caroline; I will be happy while you allow me to be near you." 
               "This is well. I shall expect to see you every day, Carl-mind, just as usual, and shall be very much disappointed and hurt-taking it, in fact, as a sign that you are offended with me-if you cease your visits, which I prize so highly." 
               Somehow, he could not tell why, he felt comforted by what she said, and he resolved not to trouble himself with imaginations, but wait and believe what she had told him. 
               Jacob had taken a letter from the postman and carried it to his master's study. He had hardly reached the hall again, when he heard Mr. Waldheim call his name loudly, and as it appeared to him, in a somewhat excited manner: 
               "My horse, Jacob-and quick! at once!" 
               He hastily hurried to the stable to obey the command, wondering at his master's agitated manner. "What had happened? Where did that letter come from? Was it from Miss Gutmann-and had she refused him?" He saddled the animal quickly, and brought it to the door-fastening it to a post, and ascending the stairs. He would inquire-yes, he would, no matter whether Mr. Waldheim would be angry or not. He opened the door. His master turned quickly, asking: "Well? ready?" 
               "Yes, Herr Wilhelm; but-?" he hesitated; then took courage, and asked boldly: "This letter has not brought you bad news?" 
               "Oh, I forgot. Come here, faithful old soul: wise prophet, listen." 
               And then he read to him as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MY OWN LOVE-Mr. Herder has generously released me from my promise to become his wife. I have informed him of our former engagement, and of my love for you. He has acted as a true gentleman, showing the unselfishness of his affection for me, by giving up what was dearest to him on earth. He deserves not only my highest esteem, but I also shall, from henceforth, look upon him as a dear, cherished brother and friend. About this and other matters I wish to speak to you at your earliest convenience. Ever your own loving 
                           
                              AUREOLA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Hurrah, hurrah!" shouted Jacob, at the top of his lungs, throwing his cap in the air in mad exultation. "Right at last!" 
               "Jacob, Jacob," said his master, "stop your noise; people will think you have gone crazy. Besides, Miss Gutmann has, perhaps, some conditions to make." 
               "Which you will be wise enough to accept, sir," the old servant interrupted, without any regard to respect. "And what do you want your horse for, pray?" 
               "Do you not see that it is too soon to go to her house? I shall take an hour's ride to quiet my nerves, for I could not spend the time within these four walls now, with my blood racing in my veins. So good-by, Jacob, until eleven o'clock." 
               "Good-by, sir," and his eyes glistened while he watched his master riding off, and tears of joy were in his honest eyes when he shut the door. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               REUNITED. 
               CAROLINE looked very lovely, reclining in an easy-chair, awaiting Wilhelm Waldheim's coming. A dress of a delicate shining green, of some fine texture, fell like glistening clouds around her fairy form. Delicate lace ruffles encircled her beautiful throat, and fell over her dimpled hands. A chain of jet, set in gold, lay around her neck, setting off her dazzling complexion to perfection, while her hair, like a veil of gold, held back by a string of pearls, rippled down her shoulders in wavy masses. Lost in thought, a pensive smile upon her lips, she did not hear his knock. The door opened, and Waldheim stood before her. Hesitatingly he remained near the entrance, but, her joyful call, "Wilhelm!" brought him to her feet. 
                
               "Aureola, may I indeed call you my own again?" 
               How this name thrilled her, making every nerve of her body vibrate with delight! Nobody, ever since, had called her so. 
               "I always was your own, Wilhelm, although, in your foolish pride, you would have it otherwise." 
               "But the papers, Aureola? Have you read them?" 
               "I have, dearest, and cried over them, and mourned over them, that you, after having read them, still could persist in making us unhappy, by refusing to trust in my love." 
               "You then have read all, love? And know what-I am?" and a flush of shame dyed his face. 
               "I know nothing, but that we love each other, and that you have had your way too long." 
               "But your parents?" 
               "My parents know only as much as is good for them to learn. After our marriage, perhaps they may hear all-not before," she said, decidedly. 
               "But, dearest, I would rather-it is not honest." 
               "Yes, yes," she said, smilingly, "you would rather create mischief again, after your own fashion. No, sir, your reign is over; you are a bad manager," she added, looking archly into his eyes. "And about its being not honest, pray, have you been so very honest, when you allowed yourself to think fit to be the only and proper judge, in forming our future, years ago? Was it so very honest to keep from my knowledge the contents of that box? There, sir; as I say, in future I shall take the matter into my own hands. You have had your way long enough, and a nice mess you have made of it. I think it is time that you should know that." 
               "Well-anything you wish, darling; only tell me again that you are indeed free to love me." 
               "Yes, I am free, indeed; but-Wilhelm-not before a year is over." 
               "Aureola!" he cried, surprised. "Has Mr. Herder made conditions? This was not generous." 
               In an instant her blood was up in her friend's defence. "He has made no conditions whatever. He left me free to do what I pleased, and-Wilhelm-" and her voice grew low and impressive and her eyes flashed the earnestness she felt-"there is no man, except you and my father, whom I love and honor more than Carl Herder; and those who do not think well of him may as well remain away from my side. But you must first listen to what I have to tell you, and then you will understand my intention, and join me in what I think is our duty." 
               First she made him acquainted with the occurrences of the last week, describing Carl Herder's conduct with great emotion, and then proceeded to inform him of the resolve she had made. "If Mr. Herder, as my bridegroom, had died, I should not and could not, in propriety, have formed another engagement with any man before a year had elapsed, nor would any gentleman have attempted to pay attentions to me within that time. I consider Mr. Herder dead-that means, as my bridegroom; and therefore, deem it due to his memory that I shall consider myself, as it were, in mourning for him for the space of a year. Had he not behaved in such an exemplary manner, remaining my friend, although it was my hand that thrust him from me, I should have managed differently, gratified my feelings and inclinations; but as it is, I think he deserves to be treated as tenderly and as considerately as possible. He will continue to visit me frequently; I begged it of him as a favor. It will be a solace to me to know that he is not angry with me, and to see him become gradually accustomed to look upon me as a faithful friend, and upon you too; for he has done for you as much as for me, Wilhelm. Nobody ever knew of the engagement that had existed between you and me; therefore when Mr. Herder and I shall have been separated for a year, you may begin to pay your attentions. It will, of course, seem to us like a farce; but his feelings must be spared now, and must be thought of even before ours. And you, darling," she said, softly, throwing her arms tenderly around his neck, "do you not think I am right?" 
               "You are right, Aureola, as you always are where right or wrong is concerned," he said, gravely, looking proudly at her flushed features, doubly beautiful now while speaking for such a cause. "This year will pass quickly; for we are sure of our love, and will be happy in doing right. I know I can trust you, and I am as anxious as you to show Mr. Herder that I am grateful to him for giving me back my treasure. From to-day, then, we must meet no more?" 
               "Not, except in public, dearest." 
               "And can I not write to you?" 
                
               "Neither, Wilhelm; but you must come to see me once more. You have one great duty to fulfil. You now must start at once to seek-your brother. The result of that meeting I should wish to hear from your own lips. I have told you where he lives; so it cannot be hard for you to find him." 
               "If he should make all public?" Waldheim asked, fearfully. 
               "He will not do so; for he is the son of that noble woman, and of your father. Besides, how could he benefit by it? Your father and his mother signed a contract, you remember, in which they mutually dissolved their union. He has a right to those fifty thousand gulden your father mentioned; but even that is not legally his due. Do not think that my thoughts are intent on money matters. I mention this only to pacify your doubts. I say, leave everything in his hands. Even offer to leave him all, and that you would be satisfied with the sum your father meant for him; for, after all, what is money? Ought it be valued so highly? Can it bring happiness, if we possess it without those far superior treasures, goodness and intellect? Dearest, you know that we can live contented without it; or do you think that I care whether you are rich or poor, as long as your love is mine? No, darling; I care only whether you are good and honest, and that your heart is truly mine; those are the qualities I set store by, and which bring happiness in the end. But do not fear: the son of her who acted thus nobly cannot do otherwise than follow his mother's training. You will start soon, Wilhelm?" 
               "To-morrow; for I am anxious to set every thing right between Carl Waldheim and myself." 
               "This cannot be called parting, darling;" but tears were in her eyes as she tried to console him; "for in a few weeks you will be back, and then we shall meet frequently. Never again let there be any secret between us-it has cost us so much that we did not trust in each other." 
               "Forgive me, my own love; but I did not wish to bring disgrace upon you." 
               "But who need know? No one; and I myself am satisfied with you as you are!" 
               "You will not let me wait too long after the year is over, Aureola, but soon become my wife? I have waited so long!" 
               She smiled saucily, and said: "Your own fault, sir. You deserve to be punished. I promise you, however, she added, noticing his pained look, "whatever time you may then name I shall agree to. There, are you satisfied? Oh, you darling!" she cried, throwing herself impulsively upon his breast, "how happy I am to call you mine again, and to be allowed to tease and to abuse you again! Now go, you greedy man; be thankful for what you have. Farewell, love, and good luck to your enterprise." 
               "Will you tell Mr. Herder and your parents of our interview?" 
               "Both know that I expected you; but what we have said must remain between us two." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               CARL WALDHEIM AND HIS FAMILY. 
               WILHELM safely reached the Baths of Stachelberg. Early the next morning he set out, following the path that leads to the Panthenbrcke, and keeping a close lookout, right and left, for a villa situated in a garden. Two hours' walk brought him to the bend in the road that Caroline had spoken of. A few steps more, and before him in peaceful beauty lay the little cottage in the middle of a charming garden. The sun shone brilliantly, distinctly, lighting up every object around. Right in view of him was the carefully trimmed hedge, closely encircling his brother's property. There, in the centre of the well-kept place, with its evenly gravelled walks, gayly shimmering flower-beds, and substantial kitchen-garden, stood the clean, neat, inviting house, shaded by tall trees, its porch fenced in by creepers and green vines which had twined firmly around the lattice, and had even reached the lowering roof in their growth. 
               Wilhelm's heart beat fast, and the blood rushed to his head when he thought of what he had to disclose to the master of that dwelling, and what a few minutes more might bring to himself. In the mean time he had opened the gate, had walked up the path leading to the entrance, when his step was arrested by a charming voice within the house, singing to the accompaniment of a Zither, a favorite instrument in the Tyrol and Switzerland. The song was one of those beautiful Tyrolean airs which have so much melody with a touch of sadness in their composition. It was youthful, girlish voice, sweet and sympathetic, and beautifully adapted to express the sentiment of the song. Wilhelm stopped to listen. He had stood thus for several minutes, almost forgetting what he had come for, when a hand was laid upon his shoulder, and a deep, full-toned voice asked, "You seem to be fond of music, sir?" Wilhelm turned, and both started back in mutual surprise. 
               "Carl Waldheim!" Wilhelm exclaimed. "That is my name," replied the other, recovering covering from his astonishment; "but how you should know it is a riddle to me; for, to my knowledge, I have never seen you before, although-" and he again gazed wonderingly upon Wilhelm-"although you certainly are strangely like myself, except that you look younger, now that I observe you closely; but, at first sight, we both being bearded, one might hardly notice it. Whoever you are, sir, in what can I serve you?" 
               "My name is Wilhelm Waldheim." 
               "A relation of mine!" Carl cried, amazed. "I never was aware that I was so happy as to possess one. However, I am rejoiced at it. Be pleased to come in. My wife will be glad to know you, and to hear that I have found a relative." 
               "Not yet," said Wilhelm. "I am a relation of yours, but whether a near or distant one I prefer not to tell you myself. This packet"-pulling from his breast-pocket a parcel-"will make you acquainted with every thing. I shall leave it to your perusal, and at this hour tomorrow morning I shall again come to see you, in order to hear from you how the contents of these papers may have affected you, and, consequently, what your intentions concerning our relationship may be." 
                
               Carl Waldheim's brow contracted. "What! a secret? I dislike secrets; they seldom bring any thing good." 
               "In this case you will have to change your opinion; for, as far as you are concerned, this"-pointing to the packet-"will bring you nothing bad. And now I will wish you good morning. I stop at the baths of Stachelberg, and shall come to-morrow to arrange matters." 
               "What! and you will not come in to take some refreshment? I cannot allow it; I should positively take it as-" 
               "Thank you, sir," interrupted Wilhelm, smiling at his brother's earnestness, "not until you are acquainted with the news these papers contain. I have searched for you for several years. I have even been in Glarus, but did not succeed in finding you. Only lately did I accidentally hear where you dwell, and have not lost much time in hurrying hither." 
               "I am greatly obliged to you for your trouble; but do you really decline to enter?" 
               "I must at present. When you have read the papers you will understand why. Was that your wife whom I heard singing? She has a very pleasing voice." 
               "No, sir," he replied, smilingly, "but one whom I love next to her. It is my wife's only sister, our darling pet, Mathilde Werner." 
               Wilhelm retraced his steps to his lodgings with a mind much more at ease than when he had left them. His brother's frank, outspoken manner had heightened his confidence as to the favorable reception he might expect the next day. He was almost sure that Carl would view the matter in the right manner, perceiving that neither he (Wilhelm) nor their father had done wrong, and therefore could not be blamed for accidental chances, in which they themselves had had no hand. On that point he told himself he need not be afraid. Less secure did he feel, however, when he pondered over the consequences, on account of money matters, which the disclosure of the whole affair might produce; for a man may be all that one desires him to be, but, hold riches before him, tempt him with wealth, especially if he never possessed any, and if he then stands the test, still holding to the right, pronouncing honesty a better passport to happiness than the largest worldly treasures, then you may form a true idea of the value of his inner man. How very few such are there? Would his brother prove an exception to the rule? 
                
               Wilhelm Waldheim had always certainly cared for worldly goods, for they had become necessary to him, and he would not have known what to do without them; but he cared doubly for them now, since Caroline so soon would be his own. Upon her he wished to lavish them, and with them he wanted to beautify her life. It is true she had told him that she cared not whether he was rich or poor; but she had no idea how much she must give up, if his brother should accept the whole of what he meant to offer. Now, since he could not give her an unblemished name, he wished, more than ever, to surround Caroline with splendor and wealth. 
               With such fruitless speculations he passed several hours, and then resolved to wait as quietly as he could for the morrow. 
               The following day he set out to visit Carl Waldheim. He had walked not more than half an hour, when he was awakened from his reveries by a loud, cheery voice, calling: "Hallo, brother! on the road already? I thought to surprise you at your breakfast;" and at the same time his hands were clasped in a warm embrace, and the brothers stood face to face with each other. 
               This unexpected meeting, and yet more the cordial, brotherly greeting, assured Wilhelm more than any lengthy explanation could have done; and, with a countenance glowing with heartfelt satisfaction, he pressed the hand so honestly holding his own. "Thanks, thanks, brother, for your generous-" 
               "There, there," interrupted Carl. "We benefit equally by the whole transaction, for I should think to find a brother is worth something; and we must indeed make much of the matter, for we two are the only ones left of an honorable stock;" and with his honest eyes looking affectionately into Wilhelm's, Carl broke out into a joyous, ringing laugh. "How Wilhelmine-that is my wife-will be astonished, when I bring her a relation!" Noticing the painful flush that colored his brother's face, he added, quickly: "Do not fear, Wilhelm: nothing shall be said that could hurt you; and it was to speak about this particularly, that I resolved to seek you at your lodgings, before you came to my home. Let us sit under yonder large tree. There we can rest, and arrange everything to our satisfaction." 
               Carl had so far supported the conversation almost alone, for Wilhelm's breast was too full for much speech. First, the reception his brother had surprised him with had moved him to the heart. Then not without wonder had he noticed that Carl seemed to think much more of having found a brother, than of the money he would gain by the discovery. His joy, in having discovered a near relation, seemed to be so genuine and unaffected, the thought of money so secondary in his mind, that Wilhelm looked upon him with wonder, almost with reverence. 
               "This is a place quite suited for a confidential talk, Wilhelm," said Carl, stretching himself comfortably upon the soft grass in the shade of the tree. "I have read the manuscript, and it has explained much to me about my mother-that often I could not understand. It has shown me the entire beauty of her noble self, framed, as it were, in a glory-shine. Yes, ever self-denying and sacrificing her own pleasure for others, that seemed to be the ambition of her life. Often sad when she thought herself unobserved, yet cheerful and pleasant when with others. Carrying her burden alone, not wishing to lessen the joy of others by troubling them with her sorrows. As you see her described in these papers, brother, thus she was always in her dealings-a blessing to us, and a support at any time. We missed her sadly, Wilhelm, and her place will never be filled, and my longing for her will never cease, until we meet again." With a thoughtful, yearning, upward look, Carl gazed in silence into the distance, and a tear trickled slowly down his bronzed cheek, while his thoughts wandered back to the past, picturing to himself the time when the dear dead one still was with them. Then recovering, he continued: "I said we, for my mother knew my wife before I married her, and loved her as a daughter. She lived with us two years before she died. After my mother's death we took my wife's sister, Mathilde, to live with us, a dear, darling girl, whom you will be pleased to know. I have one son, eight years of age. We lost a daughter, who would now have been twelve. Now you know all about me and mine. There is something about my life mentioned in the papers, nothing important, but enough to make me rejoice. My mother tells my father that I give her satisfaction, and I have friends who love me. Now, about yourself, Wilhelm-the life of my only brother should not be unknown to me." 
               "You have not mentioned the sum of money our father wishes me to put into your hands-" 
               "Ah, yes-" 
               "No; let me finish first, Carl!" Wilhelm interrupted his brother. "Let us exchange. I so long have had the use of the wealth which ought to belong to you, that we thought to offer it to you, while we would be satisfied with the sum our father named for you." 
               "Not another word, Wilhelm," broke in Carl, hastily. "I do not know how much our father possessed; but this is neither here nor there. I shall take the fifty thousand gulden, and be very grateful that my father has so well provided for me. I have a family, for whose sake I think I have a right to enlarge my property, if I can do so in an honest way; but more I will not take than the sum my mother wished me to get; and whatever she did, must by me be considered right and proper, and therefore I shall accept that much and no more. I should not know what to do with great wealth. In fact, I do not actually need the fifty thousand gulden. We have enough for our wants-even more-and always were happy and contented with what we have. It is a different thing with you; for you are citybred, have more necessities and wants than we, and therefore would miss being less rich than before. No, no; thanks for your wellmeant offer; but I could not accept it. By-the-by, I noticed that you said we: are you married also?" 
                
               "Not yet," answered Wilhelm, and a happy light came into his eyes; "but when a year is passed I shall call my love my own." 
               "I am glad to hear it, brother; I wish you all happiness. And now, will you tell me all about your past?" Carl threw himself in a listening attitude, while Wilhelm commenced his relation. 
               When he had finished, his brother took his hand, shaking it enthusiastically, and said: "You will be happy, Wilhelm. It cannot be otherwise with such a wife as your Aureola. My wife must know her too, and also Mathilde. They will all like each other, I am sure." 
               "I hope to see you all at my wedding; for I could not do without my only relations. But about your wife, brother?" and a shade of anxiety crossed his features; "have you told her?" 
               "Nothing, as yet. And now listen to my proposition. I have thought the matter well over, and came to this conclusion: I never yet had a secret from my wife, and had, until now, no cause to repent me of my course; but this matter, in a certain way, concerns you more than me; that is, it would pain you more to have it spoken of. Therefore consider it your secret, which I have no right to disclose. So, if it pleases you, we will let it remain only with ourselves." 
               "Thanks, brother, thanks!" and Wilhelm's eyes glistened with unshed tears at the prospect that his disgrace, as he would call it, should not be known further. 
               "You look upon the case from the wrong side, Wilhelm. There is only one person in the whole affair that had need to call himself disgraced and feel ashamed, and that is certainly not you, but my uncle Seppel, the cause of all the trouble. I shall not say anything against him, for he is dead, and even my mother forgave him; but his is the disgrace, his the crime. Let this be the last word spoken on the matter. We are brothers; let that be enough for us both." And the two brothers embraced in silence, each feeling too much for words. 
               "But how will you manage about my introduction to your wife?" 
               "Wait and see. Let us resume our walk now; Wilhelmine will expect me." 
               When Mrs. Waldheim saw her husband enter the room accompanied by a gentleman resembling him in such an extraordinary manner, she looked greatly puzzled; but Carl Waldheim soon relieved her by going up to her, saluting her with a hearty kiss, saying, smiling, "My dear, I bring you here a relation of mine, only just discovered. Do you not think we look sufficiently like each other to be called brothers?" 
               "You certainly do," answered the lady, greeting Wilhelm with a pleasant smile; "and I could wish that this gentleman were a brother of yours." 
               "Well, to please you, darling, and also to gratify myself, we have agreed to call ourselves so. Wilhelm, this is your sister Wilhelmine, and this little lady is our pet, Mathilde, the songstress whom you heard yesterday." With these words he brought into the foreground a girlish figure, full of sunshine, blushes, and smiles, and introduced her to Wilhelm Waldheim. "And now, Frau, (wife,) we are hungry. What about dinner?" 
               "It will be ready in a short time. Shall we take a walk in the garden first?" 
               "If the others like it. What say you, brother?" 
               "With pleasure, Carl," and he offered his arm to Mathilde. 
               "Where is our son, Wilhelmine?" 
               "He has not yet returned from his lessons, but will soon be here." 
                
               As soon as the husband and wife were alone-for the young couple had struck into a side-walk-Carl answered the questioning look of his wife. "Now, my dear, Wilhelm Waldheim is indeed a dear relation of mine, of whose existence I became aware only yesterday. He has been seeking me for several years, and has only now succeeded in his endeavors. He has placed in my hands a legacy which a relation of mine and his left for me. We two are the only ones of our stock left, and therefore we intend to make much of each other. This, my darling," he added, after a pause, "is all I can tell you. It is not my secret, Wilhelmine, but his; and, therefore, I have no right to disclose it, even to you. Will this satisfy you, so that you will not question me further?" 
               "Certainly, Carl," she answered, readily. "I am no child. What is not yours you cannot give." 
               "Thank you; I knew I could trust you. The sum of money I come in possession of is fifty thousand gulden." 
               "This is very much, Carl; our son will be quite wealthy;" and Mrs. Waldheim's eyes shone with joy at the thought of her darling boy becoming rich. 
                
               "Yes, Wilhelmine; but you will agree with me, if I think that he shall not know it until we are gone; he might depend too much on it, and so waste the gifts and talents that his teachers praise so highly." 
               "I think you are right, Carl; he is happy as he is. But this gentleman-your brother, as you call him, and who looks so like you-how much did he get?" 
               "I don't know. He is very rich, however; that I can perceive from the papers I had to read. He is a noble fellow, Wilhelmine," he added, with great warmth, "and I rejoice in calling him brother. He has suffered much. If you also can love him as your brother, I shall greatly rejoice. Soon he will marry, he told me, and wants us to be present at his wedding. I think we can manage to go, now that we are rich," he added, looking fondly upon his wife. 
               Wilhelm remained four weeks with his newly-found relatives. Every day they grew dearer to each other, for the Waldheims thought that brother Wilhelm was altogether delightful, and their little son Carl declared it the nicest thing in the world to have such an uncle. 
                
               At last the day for parting arrived; so, with the positive promise from all to come to his wedding, and to keep up, in the mean time, a lively correspondence, Wilhelm left the little cottage and his brother's happy family. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               THE WORLD'S OPINION. 
               SOON the world of Seefeld became aware of the dissolution of Caroline's engagement, therewith supplying the Kaffee-visiten with a delightfully rare morsel of news, and exciting the brains of manoeuvring mammas to their utmost. The world, of course, called it shocking, audacious, outrageous! pitying poor Mrs. Gutmann in the most sympathizing manner, congratulating Mr. Herder on his wonderful escape, and venting upon Caroline their displeasure in the most contemptuous expressions; wondering what she expected (for by that time the world also had been informed that it was the young lady who had wished the engagement to be broken off)-how she dared so shamefully to treat a gentleman, not only most honorable, but also (and that made the whole matter almost appear pear like a crime) so wealthy and highly connected as Carl Herder! But-and when saying so, the world shook its head solemnly-there would yet be a retribution, and Caroline Gutmann would rue the day when she had broken with Carl Herder. Not, the world said, that this was unexpected-oh, no! anything outrageous might be expected from a girl brought up as Caroline Gutmann had been brought up, and such an end might easily have been predicted. It was true-and one must give her her due-she had behaved for the last few years so remarkably well, and the world had flattered itself that its open disapproval had forced her to turn over a new leaf and conduct herself in a manner becoming to a proper and respectable young lady; but it could easily be perceived, now, that a sense of propriety and good manners was not strong in her, or else she would not have crowned all her former follies with such a deed as this last one. Their daughters, said certain fond mammas, proudly, would never have done such a thing-no, never! and the satisfaction expressed in this last never! was so thorough, that each listener's mind must have become impressed with the firm belief that there certainly could nowhere be found daughters so well conducted and well brought up as those. "But," those fond, hoping mammas went on further to say, "perhaps it was well that Mr. Herder had thus been put through: then he could better appreciate qualities so entirely wanting in his late affianced." And again the listeners became strongly impressed with the idea that, should the above-named gentleman seek consolation in the smiles of any of those well-conducted daughters, he would find no difficulty in securing that consolation, receiving smiles in abundance, and the bestower of those smiles into the bargain, if he wished! 
               Weeks passed thus, but Mr. Herder did not seem to wish to be consoled, at least not in the manner the world expected; and, what was worse, and still more extraordinary, he still visited his former betrothed; and the world looked on in surprise, and resolved to wait-to forbear, as they called it-and not be uncharitable, as yet, to so rich and highly connected a gentleman. No; on the contrary, they thought it very generous in him-very much so indeed-still to keep on a friendly footing with the Gutmanns-it was also very wise, the approving world asserted; but in Caroline it was abominable, selfish, altogether unwomanly. Why, did she mean she could keep him at her feet forever, although she had rejected him? Did she think Mr. Herder would continue to love her, and never think of forming other ties? The vanity of that girl was something unbearable. When, however, Carl Herder accompanied her to the gardens, was constantly near her at picnics and excursions, and seemed to have eyes only for her, not caring for the society of other young ladies, then the world thought it was entitled to withdraw its good opinion of him, pronounce him a fool, and the mammas even went so far as to declare that to have such a son-in-law would be their death indeed! 
               At this critical moment Wilhelm Waldheim arrived at home, and the world of Seefeld rejoiced at this new prey, watching it with eager eye, ready to spring upon it at its first false step. "He had had enough of her (Caroline) years ago," so they said, "and that fish would not come in her net again, although that she would try to catch him they had no doubt." 
               Caroline disappointed them this time, to all appearances, for she did not try to win Wilhelm Waldheim into her train. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               THE WEDDING. 
               THUS the year passed, and the world, which had kept such a close lookout, and had, until now, found nothing to lay hold upon, all at once began to get excited, and even trembled with a fear that its calculations might come to nought, for Wilhelm Waldheim now was actually paying attentions to Caroline Gutmann! Yes, there was no doubt, and gossips' eyes could not be kept shut any longer. Mr. Herder was still at her side, but he now seemed to be more the escort of her parents, and to leave his former place to Wilhelm Waldheim. It even appeared as if he did it cheerfully, and as if he were not pained at being supplanted by a rival. "Well, really, that girl was a wonder of impudence, coolness, and management; a perfect prime-minister in holding the reins and ruling supreme under no matter what government; securing a friend where other girls usually make the most bitter enemy." The mammas gave up in despair, and listened with forced resignation to the announcement of Caroline's engagement with Wilhelm Waldheim. "She did not require a long courtship this time," they ventured to remark, a little spitefully; and when, after scarcely three months had passed, the wedding-day was named, they pronounced it as "remarkably soon-in fact, quite an exceptional short engagement!" 
               What did Caroline care for the world's opinion? How could she trouble herself to think of it, when she herself was so very happy-when Wilhelm had succeeded so well with his new relations in Switzerland, and Carl Herder had now come to consider her, without one pang, as his faithful friend and darling sister; when her parents loved Wilhelm as their son, and no cloud dimmed their sky, and no shadow darkened their future; when the day was fixed which should unite them forever, to reward them for their constancy and love? 
               A lovely day-such as a wedding party always wishes for-favored Wilhelm Waldheim and his bride with its sunshine on their bridal day, and made all the guests present on this occasion greatly rejoice. 
               Wilhelm's carriage was waiting before his house, and his fiery horses, impatiently pawing and chafing at the delay, were gayly trimmed with bright ribbons, and holding high their arched necks as if conscious of the importance of the service they were to be engaged in. Jacob, whip in hand, and in a span-new suit of black cloth, was coaxing them to keep quiet until the master should appear, and giving the soft cushions of the carriage yet an extra smoothing over, when Wilhelm, grave and stately, stepped from the hall. With tears in his eyes, and almost with reverence, the old servant held the carriage door open for him, while with trembling voice he said: 
               "Herr Wilhelm, my best wishes go with you to-day." 
               "And who should know this better than I, old friend?" answered Mr. Waldheim, laying his hand upon Jacob's shoulder and looking affectionately into his honest eyes. "I thank you from my heart. Jacob, there is none who wishes me success more truly than you." 
               "Thinking," and Jacob detained him still longer, "that you would be pleased if I were to drive you myself, I have told old Martin so." And with a low bow he closed the door. 
               "Thank you, for thinking of it; if I had not had my thoughts occupied with other things of late, I should have asked this kind service of you myself. However, you always step in at the right time." 
               Jacob, with a pleased face, with almost youthful agility, swang upon his seat, and quickly drove the carriage to Mr. Gutmann's house. There Wilhelm was received by Mr. Gutmann and his brother Carl Waldheim, who had arrived, with his family, several days previous, and had taken up his abode, according to Caroline's particular request, at her parents' house instead of, as Wilhelm desired, with himself. 
               It was now one o'clock, and at two the ceremony in church was to take place. Caroline, as Mrs. Gutmann said, would soon be down to receive the guests, with Wilhelm. A short time afterward she entered, with Mathilde, and soon after her entrance Mr. Herder arrived. Soon the house filled with the expected company, and the wedding-party was driven to the beautifully decorated church. Thence they proceeded to "The Golden Ox," the first hotel of Seefeld, where a grand entertainment was provided. Toward evening more guests arrived rived, such as were only invited for the ball, and young and old joined in the dance, which lasted until four in the morning; then the carriage, which was to take the young couple on their bridal tour, was announced, the general leave-taking commenced, and, with embraces and tears, Wilhelm and Caroline departed, to be absent for four weeks. 
               The day before the wedding Caroline had exacted a promise from Carl Waldheim that he should remain her parents' guest until her return; and, after he and his wife had given a ready assent, she engaged Carl Herder into service as particular Cicerone for her husband's relations, asking him, as an especial favor, to do all in his power to make all things pleasant and agreeable for them during Wilhelm's absence; stating that, as her parents were too old and too domestic, she could not depend upon them to show Carl and his family the interesting points which abounded in the environs of Seefeld. Mr. Herder answered that it would give him the greatest pleasure to be their escort, and to be allowed to enjoy their company frequently. Therefore, when the young married couple had left, and, a few days afterward, everything had settled in its old track, picnics and excursions were planned and executed by the small party. Mr. Herder was untiring in discovering old ruins and freshly-built-up castles, and ancient farm-houses amid woods, which he assured them were highly interesting to visit, being situated amid the most romantic surroundings. 
               Thus for four weeks they rejoiced in these rural pleasures; and by the time the young husband, with his wife, were expected home, two hearts had learned to beat quicker when in each other's society, and with fresh delight at every new meeting. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               AFTER THE WEDDING. 
               IT now was very quiet and lonely in Mr. Gutmann's house. Caroline had returned with her husband, and Carl Waldheim, with his family, left their former quarters to settle for another fortnight in their brother's house. But, although Caroline's parents very much missed their child, they knew that she was happy, and bore cheerfully what could not be altered, keeping up a constant intercourse of short or longer visits between the two houses. 
               Carl Waldheim had intended to go home soon after his brother's return from his wedding trip, but Caroline coaxed them into a longer stay, giving as a reason that, as yet, she had very scanty opportunity of benefiting by their visit. So Carl consented, seeing that his wife enjoyed herself very much, and Wilhelmine mine also was glad to remain a little longer for Mathilde's sake, who, soon enough, should have to reconcile herself again to the comparatively quiet life in their mountain home. 
               Caroline looked archly at the young lady, who, with Mr. Herder by her side, was just now blushing prettily at some remark that gentleman had whispered into her ear. Carl Herder, at the same time, as Caroline was watching them, had raised his head, thereby encountering Mrs. Waldheim's triumphant smile, causing him to look conscious, but not illpleased, at the expression of joy that illuminated her features. She astonished the company presently by a silvery laugh, at the same time dancing gayly up and down the room, and ending by catching her husband around the waist, whirling him around again and again in a mad waltz, until they sank exhausted upon a seat. When Wilhelm, greatly amused and surprised at his wife's sudden outburst of spirits, asked her what in the world could have put her into such a glorious humor, she gave another scream of delight, whispering, "Do you not see?" and when he, with puzzled expression, shook his head and said, "No," she pulled his hair and called him "a delightful blind mole." 
                
               Carl Herder, who understood all, and knew that it was he who had put her into such high spirits, laughed good-humoredly, offering his arm to Mathilde to take a walk in the garden, to which, in blissful ignorance, she gave a willing consent. 
               One day more, and Wilhelm Waldheim and his wife would be quite alone. To-morrow their guests were to depart. Caroline entered Mathilde's room in the morning to have a long last talk with her before her departure, for she had come to love the shy, pretty little girl-doubly so, as she did not doubt that her own secret wishes and plans would soon be realized. She found the young lady in deep thought, and, when she came near, noticed that her eyes were filled with tears. Gently she laid her arms around the young girl's neck, saying, softly, "Are these tears a token of regret that you have to leave us, dear?" 
               Mathilde tried to smile, but succeeded badly in her effort to do so, for her voice trembled when she replied, in a low voice, "You have all become very dear to me, and the thought of leaving you distresses me." 
               Caroline smiled to herself, saying nothing, however, only stroking Mathilde's cheek sympathizingly pathizingly. At last she spoke, consolingly: "You know, dear, that you will soon return." 
               The girl blushed deeply, but remained silent. 
               "So he has not yet spoken," Caroline said to herself. "Cruel wretch, to torture this innocent, timid heart." Then she asked, aloud, "Am I not right, Mathilde-do you not know that?" 
               "How should I know?" and her low voice was tearful and full of pain. 
               "Next year Wilhelm and I shall come to see you all, and then, if you wish it, we shall be glad to bring you back with us," said Caroline, adroitly giving the conversation a turn. 
               Mathilde, however, did not seem to be comforted; her countenance remained sad and thoughtful, and she had evidently no inclination to converse. Therefore, Caroline said: "Come with me, dear; it is the last day of your stay. I think I heard Mr. Herder's voice; he will spend to-day with us." 
               A bright blush suffused Mathilde's features at the mentioning of that name, and she promised to be down directly if Caroline would precede her. 
               So Mrs. Waldheim went down stairs alone, finding Carl Herder in the room quite by himself. "Good morning, Carl; you have come to say farewell to our guests? I hope you intend to remain with us all day?" 
               "If you allow me, I shall be pleased to do so. But-you seem to be not in very good humor: what has happened?" 
               "Nothing has happened, as yet; and this is what angers me, Carl Herder," Caroline replied shortly, and giving no smile in return. 
               "But you will surely tell me what I have done to displease you, for it is evident that I am the object of your dissatisfaction." 
               "I am glad you have the good sense to discover that much, and hope you will go still farther and discover the cause of it. Here comes dear Mathilde. I have to attend to my house hold duties, so good-by for the present. Mathilde, darling, you have recovered your bright looks again. I am glad to see you cheerful and smiling on the last day of your stay." Then, with almost a threatening look at Mr. Herder, she left the room. 
               That gentleman smiled to himself, for he thought he had now found out the reason of Caroline's displeasure. "You are sad at having to leave your friends, if I understand Mrs. Waldheim's words rightly? Dare I flatter myself that I am included among those whom you will regret?" and his voice sounded very tender and loving, causing Mathilde's heart to beat, and making the blood tingle in her ears from secret delight. 
               "Why should I not include you also, Mr. Herder," she replied, timidly; "you also have been so very kind to us." 
               "Would it please you very much if I should not leave you?" He was now close by her, watching anxiously the tell-tale play of her transparent features. 
               She raised her eyes quickly to his, but dropped them hastily again when she saw how earnestly he regarded her, and said, in a faint voice, "What do you mean? It is I who have to leave." 
               "But, if I should accompany you to Switzerland? I have never been in that country of mountains and avalanches." 
               "Oh, if you would!" cried the artless girl; but then blushing deeply at her audacity, she tried to add, quietly, "My brother and sister would be very much pleased." 
               Although he had no need to ask any more-for the flash of joy that shone from her eyes, and the bright radiance that lit up her countenance, were answer enough-yet he wished to hear her sweet voice tell him what he loved so much to listen to; therefore he asked: "But you, Mathilde, would it please you also?" He had to stoop down to hear the low "Yes" that fell from her lips, and that filled his heart with joy. 
               When Caroline, after nearly an hour's absence, re-entered the room, she found Mathilde alone, bright, and softly singing to herself; she informed Mrs. Waldheim, with sparkling eyes, of Mr. Herder's intention of visiting Switzerland. Caroline nodded approvingly, while listening to the joyful news, and leaving the room quickly, encountered that gentleman himself, whom she patted patronizingly upon the back, saying, with a bright smile, "You please me, Carl; your talent for discovering one's wishes is gratifying, and the idea of your visiting Switzerland is the most crowning proof of your great intellect." Then she added seriously, "You love her from your heart, Carl?" 
               "With my whole heart, Caroline," he answered, looking honestly into her questioning eyes. 
               "She deserves it, and you will be very happy, Carl, as you deserve to be," she finished, with tears in her eyes. 
               They were all gone, and Mathilde had not looked at all disconsolate as she nodded her last farewell from the carriage window. Mr. Herder sat by her side, and also waved a joyful adieu to his friends. 
               Several weeks after their departure, Caroline received a letter from Mathilde, the contents of which she hurried to impart to her husband, who was in his study. "Listen, Wilhelm," and she read to him as follows: 
               
                  "MY DEAREST CAROLINE-I am very happy. Yesterday I became the promised wife of Carl-Carl Herder. He will remain with us a few days longer, and then continue his travels, after that. In six months he wishes our wedding to take place, and then I shall always be in dear, dear Seefeld, and near you. The parting from my sister and brother and little Carl will be very hard, but we shall visit each other frequently. What joyful consequences your wedding has brought for us all!"
                
               "Now, Wilhelm," said Caroline, refolding the letter, "you know the reason of my high spirits on that evening. Do you not, you dear, blind mole?" 
               "How far-seeing you women are!" said her husband, fondly. "I am glad Carl is happy now. And you, Aureola?" and he encircled her with his arms, looking tenderly into her eyes, "are you also happy? and have you never repented of having married a-" 
               "A dark, darling gypsy?" she interrupted him. "Of what use are such questions, dearest? Why repeat to you stale news?" 
               "Because I love to hear it, Aureola," he said, drawing her nearer to him; "because it is my delight to hear you say that you are happy." 
               "Well, then, darling, I am very happy, and never shall be otherwise as long as your love is mine;" and she laid her head contentedly upon his breast, pressing his hands to her lips in perfect happiness. 
               "And your parents, Aureola, shall they never know?" 
               "What good could it do? You have told me, who alone ought to have known it. It has made you, if possible, dearer to me. Does not that suffice you?" 
               "Have your wish, dearest, if only you are satisfied." 
             
            FINIS 
         
       
   
