
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Miss Tamar Allen's Narrative of the Tientsin Massacre in China....
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7255
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Miss Tamar Allen's narrative of the Tientsin massacre in China, during which so many Christians and foreigners were ruthlessly butchered by the Chinese ... and her own miraculous escape 
            
                 MISS TAMAR ALLEN'S NARRATIVE OF THE Tientsin Massacre in China, DURING WHICH SO MANY CHRISTIANS AND FOREIGNERS WERE RUTHLESSLY BUTCHERED BY THE CHINESE. WHO COMMITTED THE MOST HORRIBLE ATROCITIES, SPARING NEITHER MEN, WOMEN, NOR CHLDREN. MISS ALLEN'S HSTORY OF THE WHOLE AFFAIR, I .LUDLNG the Murder of the Missionaries, Sisters of Mercy, AND HER OWN MIRACULOUS ESCAPE AFTER BEING CONCEALED THREE DAYS IN A DARK CELLAR, WITHOUT FOOD, IS EXTREMELY TOUCHNG AND T!IALLI:N .. WITH ORIGINAL ENGRAVINGS.  C. W. ALEXANDER, Publisher, No. 224 South Third Street. Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by C. W. ALEXANDER, in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.   Entered according to Act-of Congress, in l870, by C. W. ALEX2I oDBm in the office of the Librarian to Congress, at Washington, D. C.   THE CHINESE MASSACRE. MSS TAMAR ALLEN'S NARRATIVE. A TRUE HISTORY OF THE MOST BARBAROUS AFFAIR OF THE CENTURY--MEB BRUTALLY MURDERED IN THE STREETS OF PEKIN AND TIENTSIN---FOREIGN MISSIONARIES OF ALL DE- NOMINATIONS CRUELLY BUTCHERED---THEIR HELPLESS WIVES AND DAUGHTERS DIABOLI- CALLY OUTRAGED AND THEN WANTONLY TORTURED TO DEATH---CHURCHES AND HOUSES BURNED AND BABES THROWN LIVING INTO THE FLAMES---MISS ALLEN'S SUFFERINGS, HOR- RIBLE TORTURES AND FINALLY MRACULOUS ESCAPE---A GENERAL MASSACRE OF CHRIST- IANS TO TAKE PLACE ON A CERTAIN DAY THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE CHNESE EMPIRE-- HEARTRENDING SCENES. SHALL SUCH BARBARIAN FIENDS BE HURLED UPON US BY SHIPLOADS  For some time-at last three months-previous to June 21st 1870, the European and American residents in those cities in China, in which they are permitted by the Chinese law to reside, noticed a great change in the manner of the natives toward them. The change was a hostile one, anld was not confined to the rabble or lower classes, for even the Highest Mandarins of the Blue Button did not attempt to conceal their ill-will in their intercourse with foreigners. People of perception suspected that something more potent than ordin- ary must be at the bottom of this display of animosity, anrd they endeavor- ed, but in vain, to ascertain, what it was. A few days before the outhreak was made' by the Chinese, huge placards or posters were pasted up on the walls in the most frequented localities in Pekin and Tientsin, of which we publish A Truly Translated Copy. PUBLIC NOTICE, ISSUED FROM THE YAMEN OF THE CIIINKEANG TAOTAI, JUNE 15, 1870. Whereas of late, whenever young children have been kidnapped at various places along the river by means of stupefying drugs, it has al- ways transpired, through the deposititons taken from time to time by the local authorities, that the culprits had taken passages in steamers and S   4          THE CHNESE MASSACRE. conveyed the children to Sbhanghae, where they were sold for the purpose of having their eves scooped out, and their private palrts cut off to he u,ed in the preparatio;n of mysterious drugs; a fact, alas, how lanientable; and whereas it is presumed that the captains and Chinese stewards, who traverse the rivers and coasts on board the stenilers, ale not wanltirnr ill benevolence ald rectitude, a Rpecial appeal is herebly mnde to llr(tlo ie (careful in noting whethel tly he  passe ger tey velaing wia lout lis lnnily, but having in his charge any ouO' tloys'oravl gili wln fht ,nn- riot give a good account ofthimself, w;il, lis oi gi, 'ls, e if s h lenld e U*In- Cous, to watch him and lay private. information" at the Custom House on artnral in port. The Custo's official will tl'ereupon seize the individual, am1d forwlard hnim to the- Taotai for trial and punishment. The merit of such an action will be great indeed. A Sacred Notice! [Another.] (Literal and correct translation.) PROCLAMATION OF WANG, CH nHSIE IN TrE PREPECTURn OP CHZINKRANxG. JUNE 16th 1870. Whereas it has been discovered by me  that a number of foreign Bar- barians-aided by some wicked Chinese who  have been converted by them---are going about in all directions, kidlnapIping children and young women by stupefying thenm, either throngh the medium of taste in some- thing to eat, or ef vapor conveyed in tobaco they give them to smoke, thereby rendering them more easy subjects for abduction, the result of which is that they are cruelly lurdered for the sake of procurilg, in the case of males, their eyeballs, livers and testes, and in that of the females, their breasts and private parts, which are made up, it is presumed, into some strange drug. This is a  matter of deep commiseration, .and Chi Hsien has taken se- ret and vigilant mneasures for their apprehelnsion, and it is his duly to issue this pressing notice, calling upon all classes Dot t'o allow tIheir wives and children to run the risk of being kidnapped by going out at ill. .And any orne wnho can procure the .onvicltion of one cf thse iidapperlls, shall without fail, receive a reward of 100 dollars. Let all obey with tren- Ming. A necessary notice. These posters threw a flood of light upon the mystery. The mission. tries, in their zeal to educante the miserable and neglected children of the poor classes, had gone out in various directions, and by means of kindness ad appropriate little presents had induced the urchins to come ta the achool and mission houses, where they were not only taught, but in many cases well clad and fed. In return for this kindly care and Christian nition, the horrid charges contained in the above proclamations were ramped up by the ignorantand debased parents against not only the missionaries but all the foreigners in general.   -      T-THE CIIINESE MASSACRE.         6 No human being is more bigotted than the Chinaman about his idol- atrous belief and ever since Christian missionaries first ventured into the Flowry Empire there has been a steadiy stream of hostility against them on the part, of the natives. The Chinese see no differene in any denom- ination S. The Protestant, the Catholic, the Baptist, and Presbyterian are all alike to the modern disciple of Confucius. All are regarded as outside barbarians and horrible fiends who come to China only for the most wicked purposes. And were it not for the wholesale dread the treacherous, cowardly wretches have of the ships of war belonging to America and other Christian powers, every missionary, and in fact every foreigner would long since have been murdered. Notwithstanding the bitter and inflamable tone of theso placards that were posted up on the walls, still the foreignelrs did not think any violence would occur. In this, however, as the 'sequel proved, was a fearful er- ror, as the following h eartrending larrative will show. MISS ALLEN'S ACCOUNT OF THE MASSACRE. My heart as well as my hand trembles as- I take up my pen to record, for the information of my countrynen and countrywomen, the horrible incidents of the massacre of the forenigners residling in the Chinese cities of Pekin and Tiernisin. Of part of these incidets that occurred in Tient- sin I was not only an eye-witness, but also a victim, and I can therefore speak with certainty of their correctness. Of the others I had the his- tory from persons who had seen thelc  and vouched personally for their reliability. In order that the reader may understand thoroughly  the entire history I shall begin at a period much earlier than the commence- ment of the deplorable massacre itself. Ten years ago, whenll we were livin in the eastern pnrt of this conn. try, my fathter received a proposit ion to take charge of the business house of John Landele, Esq., of New York City, ini the Chineso City of Tient- sin. Both had' been acquainted firom their youth wil each other, and both, when young- men, had spent s everal 'ears in China. Father had returnell from there, got married to motlher, and setthed down na book- keeper of the Elcho miills here nt a good salary. M r. TLandele, havin an opportunity, establishc d a lucrative trade at Canton, and at the time of whiich I write, he hnad established a. branch h ouse  in '[icnn i n, both bein- of course I branches of the Now York eotaliTsPlment. Aa he, wann well aware of fathoer's peculiar a bilities in regfard to n ausing ss in Chna, he made him such a promising offer, that it was accepted, and, giving up hs position at the mills, father, taking us all with him, set out at once for the city of Tientsin.   THE C1INESE MASSAORE. In due time we arrived there, and commenced our life in the Celestial Kingdom, which, alas! has proved so frightfully fatal to all of us, for after loosing father and mother, sisters and brothers, in such an awful I manner I can never again know what happiness is. And were it not sinful I could sometimes almost wish to die. Even as I write, I can see my poor father and brothers overpowered stabbed and hacked with knives, and beaten into shapeless masses with huge clubs by those demon-like Chinamen. And I can see'the horrible acts of villainy and cruelty done to poor dear mother and sisters, and hear their expiring groans as the wretches slowly murdered them with -tortures too terrible to repeat. I am constantly wondering not so much at how or why I was spared and escaped but how it can be that I lived at all, after witnessing the awful massacre. 'The mere sight was suffi. cient to have killed even any one' possessed of the strongest nerves. The fatal day on which commenced the slaughterous work was June 21st of this year. But for a good while previous to that we had taken otice that our four Chinese house servants, all of whom were mnen, ex- hibited a complete change of temper and disposition. Though they were just as obsequious as usual, they would on the most trivial occasions burst forth in the most violent manner about the " hellish Barbarians. " This language would not be directed at any of our family, but was utter- ed in regard to foreigners in general. One evening father chanced to hear Ah Fhi, a tall, brawny fellow who attended to our cooking, cursing the foreigners. Father would not have noticed it except because the man's tone and gestures were so tigerlike in their fierce intensity. The subject of the general change in the bebavi- our of the Chinese had long been the theme of conversation among our European and other friends, and father began to feel uneasy. He knew from his long experience among the Chinese that their treachery and de- ceit were only equalled by their blood-thirstiness. Being aqxious to know the real cause of the emotion, he determined to question the servants. Going up to his chamber he got a revolver, and thrusting it into his pocket he walked boldly into the room where Ah Fhi and his three fed --low servants, with a friend, were thus talking. Drawing his pistol he  closed the -door and said to the men: "I Wish to know what all this is, that is going on among you hore. If I do not obtain a full and truthful reply, I shall blow all your brains out on the spot. Now then, Ah, you have the first opportunity to speak out or die. " All at once began to jabber different tales and excuses, until silenced by father, who insisted on each taking his turn. Ah,'the oldest, then be- gan and delivered a long rambling harangue, the burden of which, how" ever, was tLe same as appeared in the placards pasted up about the city. Being satisfied that the man told the truth, father talked to all of the men,   THE CHNESE MASSACRE.          7 reasoning with them, and endeavoring to show them how silly and how absurd were such charges as those brought against the missionaries. After fully an hour had been spent in talk the men made believe that they were convinced of their error, and they promised that they would use all their influence with every Chinaman they knew to dissipate the groundless and horrid rumor. Upon this promise father put up his weapon, andleft the room. This was on the nineteenth of June in the evening, and just before we retired father called us all into mother's chamber and told us to make ready by the second day after, to go to Shanghae. "For," said he, " these Chinese intend mischief. -And before long we shall have a massacre or outhreak of some sort. When it comes it will be a safer place to be in Shanghae as there we can at least have the protec- tion of the guns aboard the different ships of war in the harbor. Some- thing tells me that we are in great peril, and I shall not be satisfied until I get you all to a place of security. " During the next day we occupied ourselves with preparations for our. hasty flight, and when night came congratulated ourselves that by noon on the following day we should be on our way down the river. When brother Robert came in, just after supper time, he reported that he had heard a crowd of Chinamen near the house of the Sisters of Mercy talking among themselves about how soon they would be able. to take their revenge upon the "foreign devils. " One, who seemed a sort of ringleader among the miscreants, was describing which of the Sisters should be his particular victim a " tall, blue eyed handsome lady. "Ro bert, incensed at such diabolism, could not restrain his feelings, and, halt- ing, denounced this brutal wretch to his face and threatened to have him taken before the Taotai. But, instead of exhibiting any dread, the man ladghed loudly, and re- plied in the Chinese language: "Bah I you Melican men and Francey men will talk smaller tomorrow. We'll show you. You takee our children and kill them and make med- icine out of them. You give them sweet things, and sleeping candy to chew, and then catchee them. We'll show Melican mens tomorrow. " "Bah I go home Melican mans, and stay there till we come for you. Me going to takee your pretty sister, the fat one with blue frockl " shout. ed out another of the group, at which all set up a laugh of approval of their ccnlrade and defiance of Robert, whose blood was chilled at the' fearful threat. Jane, my sister, was the one alluded to. My brother, dreading, that there was really truth in the language of the Chinamen, thought it would be good policy to say to them as he passed orn along the street: * "The ships with the big guns will be up here then. " His only-reply were shouts of dirisive laughter.   8          THE CHNESE MASSACRE. "Father," said he, after he had related his adventure, "I fear we shall not get away without trouble. I never saw the devil so large in anv one as in those rascals. You may depend they would not behave in that way without they had received encouragement from some one in authority. "That is exactly what II think myself, " replied father, " but, " con- tinued he, " we must get mother and the girls away at all hazards to- morrow. I want you and John, when he comes, to remain in doors to- night, and alo in the morning till we start. Tonight we will look after our weapons for we may need them. "  . "I will go up stairs right away and clean the pistols and reload them myself, " said Robert. He went up, but after a few minutes' stay came down with a troubled countenance in which we could see hope and dread mingled. "Did you take the pistols out of my box, father?" asked he. "No, I did not. " "They are gone." "Did you look in the box in my room?" "Yes, Sir, and in the trunk, and also in the book case. " Father bit his lips, and we saw him pale a little, as he turned round to look at us women-that is mother and us three girls. "Come, Robert, " he then said, " let us go up again, and make a thorough search.-" The two ascended the stairs, remained up about twenty five minutes, and then came down. "Where is Ah?!' asked father. "He went out during the afternoon and has not returned yet that I know of, " replied mother. "What .is the matter?" "Where are the otfer three servants?" inquired father, without notic- ing mother's question. At this moment John entered, and father asked him if he had seen the servants-as he came into the house. "Yes, pap, I saw the whole four of them out in the street, down by the next corner, talking with half a dozen friends. And I thought it was rather queer for them to be doing that. " "Did you move the pistols, John, out of their places upstairs?" in- quired Robert. "Why no, Bob, what makes you ask such a question as that for? I have my own in my pocket, now, but I did not touch the others. " For a few moments there was silence, during which we glanced at each other, and too well interpreted the thoughts that were passing through us. At last father broke the suspense by saying: "I fear that we are upon the eve of trouble with the natives. The out-   THE CHNESE MASSACRE.          9 break whch has been threatenuing for so long is about to take place. Ah Fhi, and our other three servants are in league with the natives. Our pistols have all been stolen Ly tl(m. I ftar that lhe attack 1ay comr menee tonight. There is but one thing left for us to do. By daybrcak tomorrow morning, if we are spared, you, Robert, John and nl yslf imust take mother and your sisters, get cut of t:e city, and nmake our way down along the river bank till we meet one of the war vessels coming up. If the worst comes, we must face the danger and, fight, "Mother, and you, girls,'as long as myself and Robert and John live, " continued father, adldreCsing us, " will be safe from harm. But should we be killed, then-and I say it to you in all- solemnnity, and in mercy to yourselves, do not hesitate to slay yourselves with your o\\ n hands. Far better that you should die thus than perish in the way that you will be made to perish by the Chinese fiends; for the tortures of the Indian sav- age are mercies compared to those of the Mongolian. Sister Jane was a lion-hearted girl, and she said: "Never fear, pap, all seven of us together can fight our way out. At least we women will not be any burden to you men. And if necessary we can die. " ' -We all praised Jane, and reiterated her bravo sentimonts. Then we set about our final preparations for escaping. Father decided that the house should be closed up, the doors and,windows barricaded as securely as we could do so, and a search made -for what Nweapons we could find or improvise. John had his pistol but no more cartridges than it was then charged with, as our wily China servants had stolen all the rest when they took the other pistols. Hardly had we completed the barricading, when Ah Phi and the other servants came to the door and desired admittance. "We've found you out!" exclaimed brother John, looking out of the upper window. "Off with you, you scoundrels, or I'll shoot every one of you. " Finding that their intentions had thus been discovered, the four wretches sullenly retreated, Ali Fhi shouting out: "We'll have you all in the morningZ! Wait till then, Melican mensl " John would have shot the insolent Chinaman had lie consulted only his feelings But he restrained hiniself and shut to the window. -All the weapons we could possibly find were two old dull, short swords that my brothers used to practice with, an axe, a heavy walking stick, and some carving and table knives. Father took the axe and stick. Robert and John took the shcrt swords, mother and Jane each a carving knife, and. Mary and myself got a couple of tablo knives. These weapons, ex- cept of course the stick, were sharpened to a keen edge upon an old grind stone, which operation occupied us until after midnight. Then we all laid down to rest ourselves, not to sleep, for, under the   circumstances, slumber was not thought of. Outside in the street the quiet was more profound than usual, a fact which seemed ominous to us of the coming storm. The sky in the East was just beginning to get gray when father got up, and said we had better be going now. None of us had gone to our * rooms, nor undressed as usual, but had thrown ourselves down in- our clothes, so as to be ready to start. So, within three minutes after father told us to get up we were prepared to go. After some consultation, it was agreed that father should take mother on one arm and Jane on the other, and go first, followed immediately by Robert and myself, and John and Mary. In order that we might not attract the attention of the Chinese people whilepassing through the streets, by displaying weapons, father wrapped the axe up in paper so as to look like a flat package, Robert and John thrust the old swords down the legs of their trowsers, and we women concealed our knives in the folds of our skirts. Father, in selecting the route by which we were to reach the river bank had chosen streets that were remotest from the school house of the Mis. sionaries and Sisters of Mercy. He did this for the reason that the at- tack by the mobs would most likely first be made upon them. When we went out there were very few people stirring, and after pro- ceeding several squares, we began to congratulate ourselves that we' would succeed in making our escape. Suddenly, however, we were con- fronted by several Tangwi or watchmen, who were armed with poles to the end of which by iron chains of about twelve inches length, were fas- tened an iron ball full of sharp spikes. These watchmen, I am certain, suspected our designs, and determined to frustrate them, for, without in- quiring where we were going, or why we were out so early, they ordered us peremptorily to go back to our house. "Let us go back," said father to us, " till we get clear of these fellows, and then try some other street, " So we retreated with as much composure as possible, looking back now and then to see if the watchmen were keeping their eyes upon us. One after another of them disappeared up or down side streets, till we lost sight of all of them, when we at once turned up a street leading toward the river. Our spiritsI again rose, for we felt sure, that we should escape after all. What was our dismay, however, upon coming to the crossing of the next square, to encountor two of the watchmen who had evidently ,felt that we would endeavor to do this very thing, and consequently had hastened along the side street to meet us. The other two did the same, one square on the other side of the street on which we had been walking' To cap the climax of our misfortunes who should at this very juncture come hurrying along but Ah Fhi and our other three servants, who upon   THE CIIINESE MASSACRE.         " seeing us at once raised a great shouting and commotion, which had tho effect of collecting a large crowd of natives, who yelled and cursed at us most vehemently. We still kept moving along, now, howeveri, in the dlirection of our house while each moument the mlob became larger and their yells and outcries more terrific. Our fortmer servants did not come ni iar us but we would see them circulating among the crowds and talking now to one and then another evidently concerning ourselves. Unfortun- nately for us also we got into the street in which stood the school house of the Missionaries. When we reached -that building the howlings and imprecations of the Chinese became so frightful that mother fainted with terror and fell to the ground. Until this instant none of us had exhibited our weapons, But now father, as he stooped down to raise her up, tore the paper from the axe. This was like the fatal spark that fires a magazine of gunpowder. Such a tempest of yells, hoots and demoniac exclamations I could not have imagined. The next instant a rush was made upon us. But quick as a flash of light John fired a shot from his revolver, which killed a huge Chinaman dlead just as he was in the act of hurling a stone at father, and bad- the effect of stopping the rush. "We must fight now, boysl Rememilther what I told you, girls1 " These were the only words'he uttered; and swinging his axe aloft he cut'down another native. John got hold of mother and kept his pistol leveled at the mob, until Ah Fbhi making his way to the front picked up a large stone to throw, when John took instant aim, fired and killed him. In another moment a terrific rush was made and in spite of their most desperate efforts, father and both brothers were overpowered and killed before our eyes. John was the last one to fall. He had succeeded in pushing me back into an area like in front of a store, and stood before me with the axe, which, after his sword was broken, be had snatched out of father's hand when, the latter was killed. The knife that I had, had been snatched from me almost as soon as I had drawn it; but even if I could have re- tained it, it would have been of no use, except to take my own life. I screamed out to John now to save himself and never mind me; but oie refused, saying: "I'll die right here for you, Tamar; but I'll never desert you!" At this instant a huge stone, thrown at us by one of the mob struck me on the right side of the face, and I fell down. I tried to get up, but I could not. I remember hearing poor John shogt 'out something to me, but what he said I could noi tell. I saw him, however, swing his axe and strike out fiercely at several large Hien whosprang upon him at once. Then I felt him fall back heavily upon me, after which I lost all conscious- ness.   12          THE CIIINESE MASSACRE. [Miss Allen's face is much disfigured by the injury she received from the stone, and the first and middle finger of her righlt bhand are stiff and incapable of motion, having bleen broken at the tinme her brother fell dead upon her. She supposes that the back of the axe crushed them, or else some of the mob trampled upon them'when the last rush was made.] When I came to my senses I found that I had been dragged iup into a court. There was no one near nme, but I heard still a shouting and yell- ing in the streets and-could see the smoke of some buildin(t burning I knew at once that the threatened massacre had commenced, and that the Mission House was on fire. As I attempted to move I became agor ized with pain. Putting my hand up to my face I felt it was full 'of blood, and dirt off the pavement. With great difficulty I rose to a sitting pos- ture, and tried to re-arrange my clothing half of which was torn firomn my person, what was left lbeing completely filled with mud and blood. But the pain of my two broken fingers on the right hand was so intense that I did not succeed very well. My condition now was such that I would have felt grateful to any one-even a Chinese-to kill me. Indeed I would have taken rnmy own life, but I felt that such an act would not be right even uuder the deplorable circumstances in which I was placed. While I was thinking over what I should do, a man--evidently one of the mob-camne out of a door directly behind me which opened into the house. "Ha! you-wakee up! I takee you again I Come along!" Thus speaking h e stooped down, and seizing me under the arms, half carried and half dragged me into the building. When hie got me in li he closed the door, and partially supporting me, pushed me forward toward another door. In my dread and agony I seemed to recover my strength, and, breaking from my captor, I turned and sprang for the first door so as to get back into the street, where I hoped to fall in with the mob again and be killed. But niy effort was fruitless. With a loud langh the Chin'a- man quickly recaptured me, and then whipping out a strong cord 'threw it around me so as to bind rny arms helplessly down at my sides. After he lad bound me thus, he raised me upon his shoulder, and car- ried me down stairs into a cellar or subterranean room which seemed as thougrh it were used for the purpose of opium smoking judging ' frol the peculiar odor and the benches with little wooden pillows. There were no other occupants save the Chinaman and myself, and after binding my ancles and depositing me in one corner of the cellar he went out, with the threat that if I had moved one inch by the time he returned he would kill me.          - "Kill me now, you wretch! you murderer!"I exclaimed in Chinese, hoping so to anger him that he would relieve me of my miserable exist ence. Bat, with a hideous, demoniac sneer, he replied as he went out:   THE CHNESE MASSACRE.          13 "Oh, no! me keepee you, you too pretty Melican girl to killee youl " And other language that I cannot repeat. If I felt wretched oefore, I was now ten fold more so. I never before knew what despair really ment. But now I experienced its most bitter pangs. As I lay there solitary and alone, in terrible bodily pain and mental anguish, my whole life seemed to float past me like a moving panorama. My childhood at home here in America, with its happy associations and nlellories, my voyage with the rest of the family ,to China and life there in Tientsin. Theln the flighit and massacre I Horlible horrible I I could see father, and Robert, and John, fighting so bravely, so madly to save us, and falling one after another beneath the bloody hands of their murderers. I could see again the hellish treatment of the dear mother that love me, and the beloved sisters, whose heads bad lain upon my breast so often. I could see their firantic struggles to save themselves from worse than death, their lamentable failure to do so, and the fearful manner in which they wre afterwards butchered. Oh, my countrymen, and countrywomen, if I dared to record on this page the details of what I saw done to men and women on that dreadful day, your blood would curdle with, horror and loathing, and you would with one acco-rd, denounce and execrate the men of weailth among you who are hurling these vile, beastly Clhinese into your country by ship- loads that they mayv ilncrease their riches, by decreasing the wages paid to your own honest, moral mechanic. Even now, these capitalists, on- gaged in importing Chinese labor into our country, are actually excusing thbe inhuman monsters, who, in the open streets of Tientsin, Pekin and other cities of China ravished the Sisters of fMercy as well as the wives and daughters of the missionaries of other denominations, who murdered priests and protestant clergymen alike in cold blood. They say that the Chinese government has appointed a high offieial to investigate th mnas- sacres, and punish the guilty perpetrators. That is false, totally false. Though earnestly slicitcd, the Chinese governmennt refused point blank to interfere, until the American, French and English ships of war appear- ed in port. Then this man, Schong Ho by name, was appointed to inquire. It being well known that he is bitterly opposed to all foreigners and that he was one of the instigators of the massacres, it is easy to see what he will do. Cunningly enough, also, the excuse is made that the attack and out- rages were -made only upon the French, and that no others were trou- bled. This is also an unmitigated fllsehood; uttered because the French nation being now engaged in a war for its own existence cannot revenge itself. Mr. Wade of Pekin, Mr. and Mrs. Kromar, Mr. Resch4, Mr. Wittig and Mr. Dieckbaur, of Tientsin, and my humble self, can all testify to under oath. One fiftieth part had not been told of the horrible bar- barities committed by the Chinese, and the only way in which the whole   "         THE CHNESE MASSACRE. truth can be got, is for' a commission of disinterested gentlemen compos. ed of members from America, France, England and Germany, to go to the scenes of massacre with sufficient naval and military force to back them, and make full and scathing inquiries. But the parties who control political intercourse between China and the rest of the world are too deep- ly interested in money making schemes, such as the export of Coolies and the import of opium etc., to permit a real investigation. But let me return to my own narrative. I had been lying but a short time in the corner of the cellar when the door was cautiously opened, and a man, thrusting his head in, peered cautiously about. "Miss Allen!" he said in a low tone. He spoke such good English that I knew at once he was not a Chinaman. Either my eyes were too weak or the light was too dull for me to distinguish his form or features, whether they were European or Mongolian, so I was obliged to judge from his voice and accent. "Sir " replied I. "Thanl Godl I thought I was not mistaken!" exclaimed the new comer who was to prove to be my rescuer; as be strode into the cellar and secured the door after him. I. cannot describe the revulsion of feel- ing that came over me as I heard these words of good cheer and hope. I can only compare it to the emotion that would spring into the breast of the buffeted mariner who being tossed by the most furious tempest and about to sink, suddenly sees the clouds break away and the warm sun shining full of gladness and comfort. "Do you know me, Sir?"I asked in my half delirious joy, not know. ing what to say. "Know you!" he rejoined in surprise. "Poor Miss Tamarl they must have used you badly for you not to know me. Look at me close now. Don't vou recognize me, Franz Wittig?" "Oh Franz! Franz! is it you?"I exclaimed, as I discovered in the brave young man bending over me, Franz Wittig, who had been employ- ed in father's store as chief clerk. But no sooner had the first thrill of pleasure at being rescued passed through me when the impossibility of success presented itself like a grim spectre, and, in a hurried tone, I said: "Leave me, Franz I You cannot save me; you only imperil your own life for nothing I For God's sake go away; or if you really wish to do me an act of mercy plunge that knife into my heart. " He was drawing a bowie knife from his belt as I said this. "Oh, no, Miss Tamar, matters are not quite so bad na that yet. I think I can save you, if you will control yourself tand keep perfectly quiet. Meantime I will cut your cords. Sol now offycur ancles. So! off your bodyl Sol off your arms! I wish every slash was into a Chinese throat. Now you are free of your bonds. Come, let me help you! NoI no I li still I that beast is coming back I "           Wihalag  heMnma  uckyrcatrd eaidte  Wipn ou  togcr trwtrudm  adbul rs epesydw atmysies    THE CHNESE MASSACRE.          17 I obeyed, while, like a panther, Wittig sprang to the wall just in time to place himself behind the door as the latter opened, admitting the Chinaman who had captured me. "Hal you Melican girl I me comeel me want----- He did not finish the sentence, for, at that instant Wittig sprang upon him and plunged his weapon into his side, killing him so instantanously that he sunk dead without even a groan. "That's good l" said my rescuer. "Now then, come with me Miss Tamar. I'ani sure now that I can save you till the men of war come up the river. " In a moment Franz had me in his arms and bore me with some exertion up stairs, along two seperate passages and then down into the cellar of the- third house away from the first. Providence seemed specially to favor us, for not a living soul was about, to see us, a circumstance arising from the fact that every body old and young, was away in the streets witness. ing and joining in the massacre of the foreigners. 'When we 'reached this third cellar Franz went to the farther extremity where there were piled up a number of tea boxes. These he hurriedly re- moved, and, so disclosed a small cavern or additional cellar. "Now. Miss Tamar," said he, "go in there. I will pile up these old boxes again and you will be safe for a week at least. This house is not occupied at present, and is not likely to be for that length of time, though it might be. If it is, however, no one who takes it will remove these boxes for ad least a month. Such is the Chinese superstition. Your en- emies, if you have any other beside that chap I killed in the other cellar, will never dream of your being here. Meantime I will get away, and bring help to you at the earliest moment. Don't despair. I will come sure. But, ah, there's something else I never thought of, food and drink. Just wait, I will be back in a few moments. " Wittig left me standing in the cellar while he went into the house that was inhabited from which he returned, bearing a small bag of rice and a jug of water. "This is all I could find without runuing too much risk, " said he, as he carried the meagre supply into the little cavern, " but it will keep you alive, Miss Tamar, till you get help. Now go in, and pray God to keep you and myself till I can come again. " "God bless you, I will. " I murmured as I entered the damp, but wel- come cavern, before which Wittig heaped up the tea boxes till the entrance was entirelyr concealed. "Good byo, Miss Tamar, " he called out, "I am going. Do not get down-hearted. I will some soon again. " "Good bye, and Heaven protect you, Franz. " I gasped, overcome by the contending emotions that crowded upon me. 2   18          THE CHNESE MASSACRE. His footsteps died away. and then I was alone in the midst of a still- ness as profound as that of a tomb. I bore this very well for a few hours; but then, I suppose, owing to the reaction of my nervous system, I be- came almost insane with an oppressive dread of something I knew not what. The dead silence was agony to me, and yet I dared not make the slightest noice. In the midst of this nature broke down entirely,land sud- denly I fell into a profound unconsciousness rather than slumber, from which I did not arouse for a long, long time. When I did so at last, I felt very hungry, and never, in all my life did I remember anything which had tasted so delicious to me as the raw rice I ate there in my dungeon of refuge. It being very bard, however, I thought it would be better if I Were to soak the grains in the water. I did so, putting in about half a handful at a time, and when sufficiently soaked I would sqeeze it out tight with my bands, so as not to waste the water, for I knew not how long I might be forced to remain in the cellar. I divided the whole quantity in the bag into rations or allowances in such proportions that I could have two of these rations a day for six days. And as to the water I only took a- small sip once in a great while, though at times I was nearly choking for a drink. My subterranean abode, being of course utterly dark, I could only guess at the passage of time. For long, long hours I would sit and listen in- tently for some sound to relieve tie dreadful silence that surrounded me. The rumble of a wagon wheel, or even the squeak of -a rat, would have been welcome to my ears, but not even so slight a noise could I hear. This profound solitude was frightful, so frightful in fact that, at times I could not help speaking out loud to, myself, even at the risk of having my hiding place discovered by imy enemies. My two broken fingers also caused me much physical suffering. I could feel the places where they were fractured, and at last, fearing that without I made an effort myself to re-set them, they might mortify, I tore some narrow strips from my clothing and bound them up as well as I could. The only way in which I could get them at all into the proper position was to take the end of each finger between my teeth, and, though for the time it caused me great agony, resolutely pull it until I got the bones joined by manipula- tion of the left hand. Then keeping it as steady as possible I wrapped the strip of muslin firmly round it. After my final rescue Doctor D'A1- armar t, surgeon of .the French war ship Flamme, complimented me upon the niceness of the surgical job. He opened the fingers and extracted some splinters of bone, re-bandaged them and they soon got well, becom- ing, however, stiff and almost useless to me. During the dreary days I remained in the cellar my greatest grief was how to pass my time. The constant hope of Wittig's return, and the con- stant dread that something might happen to him, combined with the ne.   THE CHNESE MASSACRE.          19 c-essity of remaining quiet; harrassed my mind most dreadfully. At inter- vals this uncertaitty nearly drove me mad. Finally after what seemed to me a century of suspense I heard the bang of a door followed by voices and footsteps. I held my breath and did not stir until I heard the voice of my brave, noble friend Franz Wittig calling out: "Miss Tamarl Miss Tamarl I have come backl Are you there? are you well?" For an instant I could not reply so overjoyed was I at the prospect of certain safety. "Great God "I heard Wittig exclaim as he began tearing away the boxes, "I hope we are not too late, gentlemen?" "I hope not, Sir, " added a voice in French. At this moment I recovered my own voice and exclaimed: "Here I am! Thank God you have come at last. " Many of the boxes were pulled away now, and suddenly the glare from abull's eye lantern flashed through the spaces between those yet remain- ing. Strange as it may seem the moment I realized the fact that I was saved, I thought only of the water in the jug and seizing the utensil, I drank every drop, almost a quart I should judge. Quickly the boxes were all removed and I was in the presence of my rescuer Franz Wittig and a French naval officer with six men all heavily armed. The officer removed his chapean and exclaimed: '"Mon Dieu! Mademoiselle, but you must have suffered fearfully. I am glad we find you still living. " "This is Lieutenant Des Champs of the French man of war, Flamme, Miss Tamar, ' said Franz Wittig, taking my arm, and supporting me forward from the cavern into the cellar. I endeavored to return the bow of the brave gallant officer and utter my thanks but in the very act I fell down insensible, as much from the great quantity of water I had so injudiciously drank, as from my emotions. When I recovered I was lying upon one of the benches, with little wooden pillows in the identical cellar in which I had been first found by Wittig, who, with Lieutenant Dew Champp, was busily engaged in re- storative measures. As soon as I aroused I was seized with a terrible retching and vomiting, which, although so violent in itself, yet gave me great relief, and after remaining quiet for half or three, quarters of an hour, I could walk a little. With a charming grace and delicacy the Lieutenant enfolded me in his military coat to conceal the condition of my own tattered and mudied habilliments, and then te and Franz Wittig supporting me on either side carried, rather than led me up into the street, the sailors coming after us a guard. When we got into the street we were closely followed by a curious   -   aTH HrHE CHNESE MASSAOBE. crowd of Chinese, men, women and obildren, who not only expressed no pity, but scowled, and hooted atus, and would, I thi*, have attacked and overpowered my protectors but for the dread they had of the heary guns aboard the ship of war lying before the city. A Chinaman stanld. ing at a corner with a conveyance fur travellers was requested to take me in it down to the river for which be was offered a good sum of money. He refused, when the Lieutenant seized it, and forced the unwilling fellow to do for nothing what he would have been well paid for doing pleasantly. Upon my arrival aboard the man of war, Flamme, I was immediately placed in charge of the surgeon of the ship, who devoted all his -skill an attention to me until I fully recovered from the terrible treatment to which I had been subjected. And I desire here to express to that gentleman and all aboard the ship the deepest feelings of gratitude for their great kindness toward me. During my stay upon the Flamme, Franz Wittig, whom I shill never be able to repay for what he has done for me, narrated to me how he first discovered my capture. He had been on a visit to a friend living above the city of Tientsin, and had only returned on the evening previous to the outhreak. He had intended to come up the same evening to our house with a  message for father. But something occurred to prevent his  doing so, and he resolved to come up early the next morning. He was on his way to do this when he feli in with a Chinese mob, which attacked him; but he succeeded in concealing himself in a house opposite to that in which I  was carried by the Chinaman. At the time that the latter had me on his shoulder, Franz was in the act of peeping out of the window to see if be might risk a further flight. e atonce recognized me and de. termined to rescue me if possible. After reaching me he recollected the eminpty house next door but one and determined to place me in the cellar as the safest place. Some months previously having had occasion to visit that very house he had discovered by accident the fact of the little cavern or additional cellar. Subsequent to leaving me there Franz had, with great difficulty and peril made his way down the river till he saw the French man of war coming up, when he had plunged into the water and swum out to the vessel to the officers of which he narrated all he knew about the massacre and my capture. The instant that the ship arrived at the city, the corm mander ordered  Lieutenant Des Champs to accompany Wittig and effect by release. But his kindness did not end here.  ie interested himself with the con- sols in the city to have a search made for the bodies of my father, mo. her, two sisters, and brothers. After an immense amount of trouble the mutilated corpses of all except Robert were found hastily buried in differ- at localities. I think it is likely that poor Robert's body was dragged   THE CHNESE MASSACRE.          21 town to the river and thrown into the water and thus swept away forever. I had them re-interred side by side in the little plot of ground set apart ror the burial of foreigners at Tientsin, where they now rest until such time as I can have them brought home. For I cannot bear the idea of their remaining in that horrible land even in death. Through the kindness of Mr. Wittig, father's business affairs have been arranged, and I am about to lay an appeal before Congress to see if the miscreants, the bloody-handed murderers of our family, the fiends who ravished helpless women and hurled innocent babes into the flames of school houses and churches cannot be punished for their barbarous villainy. The remainder of my life shall be devoted to the obtaining of justice. And before I lay- down my pen I appeal to you once again, my fellow countrymen and women, not to sanction the coming among you of the Chinese under any pretext. There is contamination in their very touch. Much better that you bring the cannibals of New Zealand among you; for while they are wild savages, still they look upon you as superior beings and can be tamed and taught to turn from their ways. Not so the China- man. He looks down on you with contempt, sneers at your religions, scoffsat your enlightenment and progress, and only comes among you to make a little money and then return to China. I tell you but the honest truth when I assert that the most wretched creature who leaves China to come to America will not move a foot until the express condition is put down in his contract that when he dies his body shall be taken home to China to be buried. OTHER ACCOUNTS. ss Allen has added to her own thrilling history of the massacres ac- counts that she received from other persons who managed to escape. The first is that of Thonlas Williamson, Esq., whose son was one of the victims to Chinese barbarity. He writes: The display of hostility on the part of the China peopie culminated on June 21st when they made a general attack upon the foreigners, direct) ing the brunt of their wicked passions, however, at the missionaries. It appears that for some time past mischievous malcontents of the higher classes had studiously circulated among the lower orders of the people slanderous stories to the effect that the missionaries and Sisters of Mercy were kidnapping young boys, girls and women, and taking them to their MAission houses. These it was solemnly asserted by the diabolical wretches that these girls boys and women were deliberately murdered, and their eyes, tongues, brains, hearts, livers, and private parts, were taken   and manufactured into some mysterious and powerful drugs for unlawful use by the foreigners. Proclamations were issued and pasted up all round the Streets calling upon the natives to arrest and bring before the Taotais, or other Chinese authorities, every suspected foreigner or proselyted Chinaman. Besides these incitive measures, numbers of Chinamen of rank and wealth circul. ated among the people and added fuel to the fire by their insidious and lying statements. So, on the morning of the day in question, and while there were many excited mobs in the streets, a man and a woman evi- dently acting in concert, ran near the house of the missionaries screaming and shouting that the Sisters had stolen their two children and killed them so as to make medicine out of their bodies. Great crowds gathered round them and finally shouts were heard of: "Let's kill the foreigners. Let's burn them up in their housesl  Immediately-the rioters seemed to give themselves up to the most de- moniac violence, and a grand rush was made for the building in. which lived the Sisters of Mercy. The front door was instantly beaten down. In the outer, or hall of reception, the mob first encountered Mother Aga- tha, the Lady Superior or Directress of the institution. She was a tall fine looking, intelligent lady. Raising an ebony crucifix, this noble, christ-  ian woman, looking like a very queen, endeavored to parley with the Chinamen and reason with them,  But as well might she have attempts  ed to talkto wild boars. Her cap was torn from her head b one ruffian who struck her in the face with it. A second of the miscreants snatched the crucifix from her hand, and beat it to atoms upon her bead, causing her to reel, and the blood to gush down over her ashy white features. The following moment she was seized by several of the fiends, stripped con-  pletely of her clothing, and dragged away to a side room, from the win- dow of which half an hour later her quivering body, covered with wounds was pitched into the street, only to be hurled back again, amidst the jeers and vile language of the bestial crowd outside. Howling like demons, their hands and faces besmeared with blood, the rioters ran up stairs into the rooms of the sisters composing the society, - or mission, every one of whom was served in a like, or even still more horrible manner. One of the unfortunates, a very beautiful lady, after being most horribly used, was thrown across a bench on her back, and while one man took hold of her shoulders, another seized her by the limbs, and the two devils incarnate swung down on her with all their farce, until her back was broken, after which she was hacked and cut all over with A   third Sister was stretched at length upon the dfloor, her arms and imnbs extended as far as possible and in this position nails were driven hrough her bands and feet into the boards beneath, after which her tor- urers would step repeatedly upon her stomach, in such a way, that,  ,   THE CHNESE MASSACRE.          23 while it would produce the most fearful agony, it would not render the victim insensible. Another had her hands, feet, breasts and nose, slashed off with knives, after which a bottle of ether was poured over her and set on fire, by which she was burned to death. All the means that hellish ingenuity could suggest to these demons from the bottomless pit, were used to torture these pious ladies who had never done anything to their brutal ravishers and murderers except teach them and their children to turn from heathenism to the living God, who had many times fed and clothed not only the children Ibut also the bar. '   barian parents of them. After these atrocities the Chinese set fire to the mission building and burnt it down, thus consuming the bodies of their victims in the conflag. ration. During the outhreak other mobs marched about through the city beating and killing and maiming all the foreigners they could find, and I have not the slightest doubt in saying that it is my belief if a re- port had not been started that the war ships were close athand, that not a single foreigner would have been left to tell the tale of horror and bloodshed. THE MURDER OF THE HLL FAMLY. One of the most cruel tragedies enacted during the massacre was the murder of the Hill family. Captain Hill, the head of the house, had been commander of a tea ship plying between Liverpool and China. By in- dustry and good fortune he had laid up a large amount of money, and at the suggestion of several of his friends he embarked his capital in a trad- ing enterprise in Tientsin. The same qualifications which had made the captain rich, now enabled him to make his new venture fully successful and some four years ago he brought out his family, consisting ofhis wife, two daughters, one son and a son-in-law, the eldest daughter being mar- ried. The latter had two children, a little boy five years old, and a baby of sixteen months. Though none of the Hills were professors of religion still they were people of noble, generous dispostion, and possessed of great veneration for any shape or form of piety. In consequence there was not a mission ia the vicinity of their residence, no matter whether it belonged to Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist, or Baptist, that did not receive material aid from the Hills. "They're all trying to do good to these yellow heathens here, " the captain would reply, when asked why he made no distinction in the sects "They're only sailing on different courses and in different rigged ships.   -asua ulLNESE MASSAORE. But, bless vour soul, they all of them guide by the one same NTorth Star and that is the Living God and Saviour of mankind. Their courses may carry them clean out of sight of each other while they are making this voyage of life, but I tell you when they make the port of Heaven they'll all meet again. "                       y In consequence of this temperament the Captain's purse was always open to the Missionaries of every denomination, and his wife and her two daughters were frequent co-laborers with the Sisters of Mercy and the wives'and daughters of the missionaries in their visitations among the native members of their missions. One would suppose that persons who were so kind to the Chinese people as the Hills, would'in event of any trouble, be spared rather than any others of the foreigners. But so far from that being the fact, the wretches engaged in the bloody work actual- ly seemed to inflict more diabolical torture upon the unfortunate Hills than an. other of the victims of their outragous and sanguinary super. stition. Before describing the affair, however, the writer wishes to call atten. tion to a most cowardly, despicable characteristic of the Chinese nature. During the time that the missionaries have been laboring io zealously among these heathens they have made maiy hundreds of convents. Now the reader would naturally suppose that these converts would if the oc- casion ever re'quired it, be ready to die for the new  religion that they had embraced, or at any rate be prepared to stand by and defend, or at least help the kind-hearted Christians, when the latter were attacked. InStead of that, however, no sooner was the mob let loose upon the missionaries and their foreign friends, and the slaughter commenced, than these con- verts deserted their benefactors and ran away and hid to save ntemselves from harm. And from this miserable display of cowardice there was not one single exception that has yet been beard of. This incident only ser- ves to show the  innate contemptibility of the C hinaman. In one or two cases, it is true that these converted  or friendly Chinese warned the in- tended victims that there would be an outhreak, but even the warnings were given so late as to be useless and after the bloody work began, the warners slunk away to their homes like cravens. On the night previous to the twenty-first of June a Chinaman went down to Captain ttill's house' and told the Captainathat there would soon dbe an attack mad e upon the freigners; also that among the  first victims would be himselfand his family. '  ]Ba h i " laughed the Captain, i" you C hinamen are like hares, the least alar m terrifies you. These reports that have excited the natives here so much do not amount to  anything. Besides, Johuny, even if there s hould be a  rowraised with the missionaries, I don't believe that the worst Chinaman from here clean across to Tartar v would injure a  hair of my bead, nor anyone belonging to me. They all know I have'n't tried to turn   them from their religion, but that I've helped them in a practical way in this world's goods. Oh, no, Johnny, I am not so easily scared as that. " With many protestations of eternal friendship and gratitude the in. former withdrew, and took good care to keep away from the house until several days after the massacrr, when, With the curious crowds he sneak- ed back and gazed quietly at the blackened ruins of the building. The next morning-June 21st-at an early hour, three Chinamen, ap- parently suffering from hunger, knocked at Captain Hill's door, and beg- ged for something to eat and a cup of tea. "We have come off a long journey, and are nearly farnished, " said the one who was the ringleader. The servant brought the appeal up to Captain Hill, who had not yet risen, and he sent down word that if the travellers chose to wait until he got his own breakfast, they would receive breakfast also. They readily consented to this and were led into the quarters of the servants, who we may add were all whites taken to China by the Captain as he did uot like the natives for servants on account of their dirty habits. Remaining silent for sometime the three strangers began to talk in a low tone among themselges, casting glances out through the windows and pointing to the doors. The servants were four women and two men, and were engaged in various duties in the three roo'ms in which they were when the China- men entered. Owing to the ominous rumors that had been circulating for several weeks previously, the servants regarded every native with suspicion, and consequently kept their eyes upon the three travellers rather sharply. Presently one of the latter rose and going to the window gazed out into the street very intently, as though looking for some one whom he might be expecting to see. At this juncture a distant sound was heard, as of a crowd a long ways off shouting and halloing. Immediately two of the strangers stepped to the men servants and began talkinE to them. Suddenly each of them drew a huge dagger of peculiar shape-such as is shown in the engraving on the front of this book-and stabbed his victim to the heart. The women were too horrified even to scream, and conse- quently the command given them by the assassins: "Don'tee bholla, Johnnee Bullee I  was not needed; and by the time they had recovered sufficiently to scream they were securely gagged by their captors. The latter then bolted the doors leading from the servants' rooms to the other part of the house, and began such a scene of outrage as would make the angels weep to behold. Each of the wretched women was then bound in such a manner that she could not move, and was left by the wretches who with most diabolical malice then said to their half insensible victims: "Hal Johnny Bullee, we going up stairs to catchee the other petty gallees. "    26          THE CHNESE MASSABCRE The villains at once ascended the stair,way, so silently as to make no noise whatever, until they reached the room occupied by Captain Hill and his wife. One of them knocked lightly on the chamber door while the other two, with their daggers drawn back, stood ready to spring upon the Captain when he should open the door. They were afraid to go boldly into the room, so they adopted this strategem. "We'll be down in a minute, Catherine, " exclaimed Captain Hill, as - he heard the knock and supposed it to be one of the servants come to call him to breakfast. The assassins grinning at each other remained perfectly silent. For some moments they stood thus when Hill opened the door to come out. In an instant the murderers drove their daggers into the body of the Captain, who, though mortally wounded, grappled with his assailants at once. The third one, hqwever, dealing him a tremendous blow. upon the head, rendered him insensible, when he fell to the floor where the wretches finished him by cutting his throat. Mrs. Hill had not risen, and by the time she comprehended the situation, and began to scream, one of the wretches had leaped upon the bed and seized her with hands all redened in the life-blood of her husband. Her screams brought her two daugh- ters hastily from their own rooms on either side of hers, alas I only to rush into the arms of the hellish villains lying in wait for them, who hastily bound them with strips torn from the bedding, and gagged them. The two children of the married daughter, Mrs. Barnes, roused from their slumbers by the scuffle and screaming, added their shrill cries and screams to the tumult, while the boy ran in after his mother. When they had secured the ladies, the Chinamen took these two innocent children, and, after cutting them with knives in the most frightful manner, deliber. ately hung them with cords to the bedstead post, turning their faces toward the agonized mother, thus forcing her to witness the horrible con. tortions afd sufferings of the poor little darlings until they were dead. By this time a portion of the mob had neared the once happy dwelling where all this was going on, and one of the three fiends ran to the window and beckoned to the yelling wretches to come into the house. Almost in- stontly the building was filled with the demons, wh6, on discovering the four female servants below stairs cut their bonds, and subjected them afresh to most infamous treatment. Meanwhile the villains up stairs were treating Mrs. Hill and her two daughters in an equally frightful manner, and wound up the saturnalia of revenge by inflicting upon those refined unfortunate ladies the most horrible tortures that human ingenuity could inflict, taunting them during the infliction with such expressions as: "Ha! you no killee no more Chinee boys and gals for makee medicine. See vour babees I we makee medicine out of them I HaI ha!" When the fiends had completely exhausted all their infernal means of   THE CHNESE MASSACRE.           2[ torturing their miserable captives, they deliberately took coal oil that they found in a barrel in the yard, and poured it over the ladies. They gave a yell of warning to their companions, applied the match and then retreat- ed into the street. The house was soon in flames, and horrible to relate, Mrs. Barnes in her expiring agony having burst her bonds, had torn the bodies of her two children from the bed post to which they were banging, and rushed toward the window to throw them out. Thus she doubtless hoped to save at least their bodies from the flames. But she fell ere she reached the window, and mother and children were burned to ashes. Until the house was completely consumed it was surrounded by an immense multi- tude of the Chinese, among whom were large numbers of women and children. These clapped their hands and shouted with joy at the scene of woe and devastation. Mr. Barnes, the son-in-law of Captain Hill would no doubt have met with the same fate as the rest of the family had he not happened to be away at Canton on business for his father-in-law. His horror and grief at the fearful fate of his wife and two children were so intense that he fell insensible on learning .the news, and, for six weeks after recovering his senses, he lay on the venge of death. Hehas now sold out his business and property in China and sailed for England, a mere wreck of his former self.  Before he set out for home, he, in conversation with a gentleman, ex- hibited most complete despair. "Why don't you stay, Mr. Barnes, and help us to bring these devilsto an account for their diabolical work. " "Great God I what's the use of that? You know as well as I do that it would be impossible to trace out the real perpetrators of the. crimes  And if we could even do so, you know that we would only have the sem- blance of assistance from the people who control political affairs for our countries. They are too deeply interested in opium and Coolies to allow even the truth to be told, much less investigations to be held. Oh, no! I shall never be good for anything any more. My wife and children are all gone forever, and I have no object to live for now. I shall not live long any way. Good bye. " A narrow escape from this same portion of the mob that attacked the Hill house was narrated in Tientsin. A young man by the name of Robinson happened to be passing down the street near the house as the rioters came rushing along. Hle endeav- ored to hide in a shop near by, but the owner of the shop, being bitterly opposed to the foreigners, seized up a knife and sprang upon Robinson. The intended victim, knowing the cupidity of the Chinese character, in- stantly pulled out his purse and offered it to the man to spare him. For a   28          THE CHNESE MASSACRE. moment the fellow-paused, and that instant Robinson drew back his fist and felled him to the floor. Then taking the knife, for he had no weapon of his own, he thrust it in his waisthand in such a way, that, while it would be concealed, yet at the same time it was ready for instant use. Then he bounded through the back part of the house into the yard and over the palings into the next premises. He did not stop here, but con- tinued his reckless flight, for he knew that if the Chinese mob got hold of him they would kill him instantly. By the time he reached the little back street, for which he was making, the ringleaders of the rioters had scaled several of the fences in pursuit, but not finding him, concluded that he must have gotten into one of the houses and hidden himself. So they ceased the pursuit and spread themselves about through the houses to search for him, in which object, of course they failed. Finding that he had outstripped the villains poor Robinson took the most unfrequented streets and alleys to reach the river and so get away into the country. By good fortune and good judgment combined, he succeeded in doing this, and was just in the act of getting into a boat for the purpose of row- ing down the stream when the owner, who chanced to be concealed near- by ran upon him with a dagger. A scuffle ensued, but as soon as Robin- son drew his knife the cowardly Chinaman cried for mercy. Robinson ordered him to get into the boat and paddle him down the river, threaten. ing him with instant death if he attempted to call for help. In this way --the brave fellow reached an English war ship which as soon as the Cel- estial saw be leaped over board and swam to shore and so escaped, leav- ing his boat to Robinson as a trophy. Miss Allen is expected here in a short time, when she intends to lay sworn facts and statements before Congress, that shall force a thorough investigation of the horrible massacres. We hope every one in authority at Washington will help her earnestly in the good work. The foregoing narrative is vouched for as being correct in every par- ticular, by all the foreign residents in China, and also the officers of the American, German, French, and English war vessels, whose timely ap- pearance alone prevented the slaughter of every foreigner in China, with- out regard to age or sex.     
         
       
   
