
    ----CITATION----
        Moine.. Going and Son .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7268
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Going and son 
            
               GOING AND SON
A NOVEL.

By

" MONK."

NEW YORK:
(PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR BY)
THE AMERICAN NEWS.COMPANY,
117, 119, &amp; 121 NASSAU  STREET.
1869.

iYi  ^   i
a.  'f
{  ~  ''
+f
"   6 '
.  .        a L

-,
; ,
.
Y ;
;i

I
'I


r
'
s;
'x

*

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by
THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States'for the Southern
District of New York.

I HAVE taken the plot and the characters of this nar-
rative from the midst of New York life, where they pre-
sented themselves to me in a manner undoubtedly more
striking and interesting than my talents permit of por-
traying. My object, however, is rather to tell a story,
than to present a line moral picture with all the proper
light and  shade-contrasts between    high  and  low  life.
Should any of my characters be recognized by my fellow-
citizens, or by the originals themselves, I can only claim
that I have attempted to remember their noble and good
qualities as well as their vices, and if I have committed
injustice, I have erred on the side of good will toward
them, and confidence in the better and     purer  side of
human nature in general.

PR F.ACE.


GOING AND SON.
A NOVEL.

BOOK I.-FANTASY.

CHAPTER I.
THE MANIAC'S STORY.
" Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair,
And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
Against the use of nature? Present fears
Are lees than horrible imaginings."
MACBETH.
NEAR the center of the Black Forest in Ger-
many, in a wild and remote spot, stands the
old, half-crumbled castle of Unkstein, which
for many generations had been the home of my
ancestors; and my father, the count of Unk-
stein, after having lost his fortune, found him-
self obliged to choose this, the remnant of his
former estates, for a home, where his scant in-
come would maintain him, though sparingly
indeed. My mother died while I was yet in
the cradle. I was an only child, and without
a relative in the world, when my father also
died, about the time I arrived at the age of
manhood.
I was a sad enough boy. The influence of
my surroundings did not fail to tinge my grow-
ing mind with their own characteristics. The
gigantic black trees, from which the forest de-
rives its dark name, the terrors of the wilder-
ness, the awful loneliness of nature, the old
castle, my melancholy father, the old house-
keeper dressed in black and looking like a
ghost,-with such companions what could be
more natural than that I should grow up a
morose, ill-tempered man, unfit for that bright
world which lay somewhere beyond my black
trees, and even without desire to go forth and
seek society.
Superstition and religion meant the same to
me. My few servants and poor retainers were
under the reign of a rogue of a priest who
gleaned my domain and swayed the scepter of
his accursed craft without opposition.  My
days were spent in praying and eating, and I
was fast sinking into a state of imbecility,
when an event occurred which woke up my
latent mental powers and stirred them to ac-
tivity, bringing me an amount of knowledge
which has been mistaken for madness, and
which has brought me to this prison, where I
linger, without hope of release, without one
ray of joy. and yet in the perfbet possession

of my senses, as this manuscript must show
the world.
If she would only not come here I Can I
never convince the doctor that he and the rest
of them are wrong on this one point? Should
I not know, I, who have held her a thousand
times in these arms; should I not know if her
face is a WOlf's instead of a woman's, as it was
when I first saw her? But I cannot make
them believe it, and they send her to me again
and again until I have raved myself sick, until
the terror of her white tooth has nearly eaten
my life away; until I tried to kill her; and
now she only dares to come and grin at me
through these bars. Oh, at such times I feel
my brain whirl and a living, roaring fire just
underneath my skull.
It was in the Black Forest, three years ago,
that I had the first warning of my life's curse.
I had been hunting, and was returning home
with an old gamekeeper and my dogs. The
sun was setting as we gained the crest of a
mountain, whence we could see my castle tow-
ering above the trees on an opposite hill. Twi-
light and hazy mists were fast obscuring fa-
miliar objects as we descended into the valley.
The path was narrow, through the black trees,
somber and silent like huge monsters at rest,
while a shadowy crowd of shapeless things
seemed to dodge around their sturdy trunks
and flit across our way.
Hark ! a rustling of the .leaves; a low
growl, a loud bark, and my dogs are off like a
flash into the depths of the forest.
" What is it,'Hans ?"
" A wolf, sir; let's after him," he cried, and
hardly could Ilkeep him in sight, so dexterously
did lie glide through bush, and branch, and
briar, following the baying of the dogs.
An exclamation of pity from Hans brought
me to where he had just stumbled over the
body of my favorite hound. We hurried on,
even my slow blood was roused with the de-
sire for revenge of my pet.
" On, on," cried Hans, brave always, but
rarely impetuous ;" we must have him to pay
for this!" Ai, it cost him his life, and me
more than a thousand lives!
We pushed on, recklessly, madly,-losing
all sense of fear or danger. We reached an
opening in the woods; a flat meadow lay be-

1
-

_,
1
"  N
L
S
i


6

GOING AND SON.

i
R
L#

fore me, inclosed on every side by a wall of
black trees, and with a strange shudder I saw
that, though I had known the woods from my
boyhood, I had never before come to this
clearing.
"I hope we have him I" cried Hans, and
spoke the last words that ever passed his lips.
A wild shriek-a shriek that rings in my ears
now-a shriek so terrible that the woods re-
echoed it as did my heart-and I saw Hans on
the ground, his throat in the huge mouth of a
monstrous black wolf.
At a distance of about ten feet I fired, without
causing the brute to change his murderous po-
sition. I made another step, and discharged
the other barrel, with the muzzle almost touch-
ing his shaggy coat;-he did not seem aware
of my presence. It was then that an awful,
superhuman fear, came over me; then I became
certain that the tales of spirits in the Black
Forest were true, and that I now stood face to
face with a creature of hell. Spell-bound, I
watched that horrid monster with straining
eyes, every faculty obscured by terror except
that of sight. Vainly endeavoring to rouse
myself and flee away, I saw the white teeth
leave the throat of my poor Hans, and with a
sickening, craunching noise, bury themselves
in his breast, and tear out his heart. In un-
conscious fulfillment of my destiny, I drew a
small pistol, loaded with silver balls by the
priest, who assured me that no evil spirit was
proof against them, and fired full at the de-
mon. With a human groan the wolf bounded
into the air and fell-a sudden gust of wind
filled the clearing with a dense black fog-it
shaped itself-it approached me, and I heard
a voice like that of the storm  which now
howled around me, shrieking,-
" Thou Last killed my son! but I will avenge
him."
I fled-fled through the woods which all
around seemed strange to rae; fled through the
storm, and the rain, and the lightning and
thunder, which had all awakened as at the call
of a master spirit; I thought I heard the wild
huntsman riding on the shaggy clouds as they
flew before the gale, following close, and spirits
innumerable, in hideous shapes, barking and
yelling behind me in pursuit. Next morning
I was found, by the aid of my faithful hounds,
insensible, bruised, and battered by my wild
race through the forest, and with scarce a
shred of clothing. Yet the bodies of llans,
the black wolf, and the dog, could not be
found; nor could any one recognize, from my
description, the clearing in the woods that had
been the.scene of that night's terrors.
* * * * * * *
My illness was the more distressing, that the
specters of this awful tragedy nightly visited
my brain, and there held high carnival, feasting
on my life-blood until my strong constitution
prevailed, and health, the most potent charmer
of wicked fancies, drove them out, and made
me for awhile a different man. For the first
and only time in my life, did I feel a desire to
see the world; so the next summer found me
at Baden-Baden, with such money as I could
raise from a Jew by mortgage upon my castle.
From the world of the Black Forest, with its

specters and horrors (which do exist in spite
of all the teachings of all philosophers),-out
from the world of my own gloom and melan-
choly-out of my routine and acquaintance. I
emerged into the center of high life and
gayety, frivolous bon-ton and all that induces
men and women to live for the hour alone.
The scenery around Baden-Baden helped to
infuse a new spirit into my distracted mind,
and but little did the gay throng, with whom I
mingled, imagine that the pale man who walked
in their midst had. deep experience with spirits
so dread and terrible that their simple appear-
ance in the sparkling ball-room, as they had
appeared to me in the forest wilderness, would
pale every cheek, and turn all the hilarity of
the place into dismay and horror.
But the pale and silent man changed. For
the genius of that gay watering-place, the ir-
resistible force of example and association
held their sway over him, and the more en-
tirely, that his previous life had been one of
utter seclusion, was he now carried away by
the world of music and laughter, of dancing
and gaming, of voluptuousness and high life in
all its customs. And thus I plunged headlong
into the world of dissipation, and with my
noble name and better gold, I soon found my-
self a lion at Baden, courted by the men and
not disliked by the women.
And I gambled. The green-table-the crou-
pier with his marble face-the diabolical chink
of gold-the distant music calling to pleasures
and charms which gold alone can procure-the
sparkling wine and glaring eyes ; all the ap-
pendages of this shrine of gold drew me on,
and Iplayed,
I played-played with success-played on;
on, on-lost. Lost heavily, lost again, lost all
I had in the world but a few hundreds. Won
again; played on like a maniac. I concentrated
my whole being upon the game and won more.
I was chained to the table by as irresistible a
power as that which nailed me t: the ground
while I saw my huntsman torn into shreds by
the wolf-fiend; now, as then, I was under the
control of Satan, but how different the circum-
stancesI Instead of wind. and horror, and de-
mons, a paradise of light, and music, and
beauty, and gold flowing instead of the blood
of my poor Hans!I
And gold I am winning, that gold which holds
you all, men and women of Baden, in deepest
bondage, and though I am mad, yes, raving
mad, there is a system in my madness, and I
shall win more, until I am acknowledged king
of Baden's gaming-tables.
Yes, you are right; I will stop-I will be
cool-yes, cold and hard as fashionable charity
itself. I will strip. I rise from the table and
bear my winnings home. Was it not Satan,
whose money I won and whose counsel I fol-
lowed in carrying away my ill-gotten treasure?
Truly the money won in a gambling hell is but
a curse, and will be a curse as long as God in
Heaven reigns high above the Arch-fiendl
*      *      *      *      *      *
I now was as rich as though my father had4
transmitted to me, unimpaired all the estates
and revenues of the domain of Unksteinu.
A summer night at Baden I An inexpressi.-

FANTASY.                                     [
ble charm in every object-the moon at the tions of love ceased and she showed her real
full, and gilding the streets, lanes, and ave- face.
nues-a happy, busy hum of music and laugh.  Her real face ! Yes; by horrible degrees
ter softened by distance, and mingled with the slowly and stealthily, she changed her face.
soft tones of the nightingale, as I walk with As we sat by the fire, lost in gloomy thought,
my love among the perfume-laden trees. Oh, she would suddenly turn her eyes upon me
how different the white cloud-drapery which and then it was I saw a new, strange look in
only heightens the beauty of the coquettish  them-a fierce, hungry look. This was the
moon, to the rent garments of the storm-god first. She rarely laughed and I prayed that
which whirl in grand confusion in the wild she might never laugh!  Her teeth, always
sky of the Black Forest. And instead of the white, enlarged, her mouth doubled in size, and
weird specters on the dark path, I see the  when she now showed that fierce and glitter.
sort moonbeams break through the cultured ing array, accompanied by that horrible flash-
foliage and dance on the graveled walk like ing of her eyes, I became frenzied with fear
voluptuous elfs; and instead of the angry and disgust, for as a wild beast snarls and
voice of the whirlwind my ear is drowsy with shows its horrid fangs, so it snarled and
the delicious sounds near and far, and blissful showed them when my wife laughed.
with the soft voice of love at my side.  .  Call me mad, all the world? Read this
Love? Yes: and though I knew years ago manuscript, man or woman, and dare to tell
that it-was bought with the gold of the gam- me I was mad when I wrote it.
ing-table; yet when it first broke upon .my  I have eyes-eyes that lie not, and I saw
lonely heart it gave me a foretaste of heaven, the hair grow upon her face. I saw the nose
that I now thank God for, from the midst of recede day by day as her countenance sharp-
the night which has closed so hopelessly cred and her jaws grew longer.   The very
around me.                                servants, though they would not acknowledge
If they would only keep her away from  the fact to me, must havo noticed this change,
me, now! They compel me to see her glaring  for they studiously avoided her and me; and
eves-the white teeth-the horrible snarl of yet the horror to which I was chained by day
the ferocious beast-the expression of hungry and which threatened me by night, did not
wolfishness which lusts after my heart as it drive me mad or kill me !
did for that .of my faithful Hans, in the wil- One faithful valet I had who finally ac-
derness !                                 knowledged to me that his lady, my wife, re-
And then again, it seems so ludicrous to serubled a wof more than a woman. This in-
me!   Strange, that a man in adversity does dorsement of what I know to be the truth
not lose his sense of the ridiculous I A wo- was a great comfort to me. I embraced the
man, a lovely female with a wolfs face!- Ha! good fellow with tears in my eyes. I even
ha ! ha! I laugh in the keeper's face some- laughed-laughed long and heartily, until I
times, when he brings this woman-brute, and saw that he ho ked at me fixedly and with a
I laugh to myself for hours together when  sort of apprehension. So I explained- to him
they have left me again.                  that my joy was because no one could now
She was an Italian. Her parents, her birth, call me a fool or a lunatic, since he could cor-
her station were never known to me; she came roborate my opinion.
in the suite of the king of Holland. Her name He had relieved me of the worst of my
was Angelica.                             miseries, the mistrust of my own sanity ; for I
I married her and took her to my castle of must acknowledge that when I was not be-
Unkstein, spending a large portion of my gains lieved, at times my brain would burn and
in the wedding festivities. Never can I for- whirl, while I queried again and again whether
get my wedding night. The storm-king was my senses were lying to me or not ; but when-
abroad in his might, and all the spirits of the ever I met her by chance, I saw the lupine
Black Forest were set loose in the air. The visage, plain and appalling as ever.
wild huntsman, with his mad train, sped     We now occupied separate parts of the eas-
around and about the old tower, and the at- tie, and seldom encountered each other-never
mosphere was heavy with vague terrors. by my desire; - but my health and strength
Even when I fell asleep, I dreamed of the  began to leave me, until I could no longer
black wolf in the spectral clearing ; but, oh blind myself to the fact that this wild beast,
agony-this time he was gnawing at my own  whom I had taken to my heart, was devouring
heart.                                    my vitals, inch by inch, even as I had seen the
*        *        *        *        *   black wolf eat the faithful heart of my poor
From this period my misery commenced.   Hans. And as I have now recurred to that
The money won at the gaming-table was all fatal subject, I will finish it, and with it close
I possessed in the world, except my weird  my terrible story.
homestead, and no sooner had my wife discov- In hope of a reaction from my low spirits, I
ered the true state of my affairs than she con- took with me my valet, and sauntered out for
centrated all her vicious energies upon the task a hunt, caring more for the fresh air and ex-
of obtaining possession of it. By scheming ercise than for the probable sport.
and device, by false pretenses and hypocrisy, My dogs found plenty of game, and, roused
she succeeded. By degrees, in small sums at by the excitement, I followed the chase with
ftrst, her importunacy increasing as did the an unwonted energy through the mazy forest,
extent of her desires, she finally placed the and losing all my gloomy fancies, reeked not
whole of my fortune beyond my control, and that night was approaching.
when I proved myself a beggar, her protesta- The massing of heavy clouds enveloped the


GOING AND SON.

F
1;

sun before he set, and the gathering dark-
ness, from its melancholy associations, brought
back at once a sickening revulsion of feeling.
The excitement of the chase having passed
away, my sorrows returned, and settled like
a huge black cloud upon my breast, heavy as
lead.
We emerged from the woods, and found
ourselves upon the crest of a hill; under our
feet lay a valley, buried in thick woods, and
over yonder, on the next hill, I saw the castle
of Unkstein.
My heart knew the spot, and stood still,
while an icy chill drove the blood back upon
it. Yes, I knew the spot well; I turned to my
companion-he shrank from me with an ex-
pression of fear on his face.
" What day of the month is it," Iasked him
and though I knew the answer, when he re-
plied,'
"The thirteenth day of May, dear master,"
the answer made me tremble like ansaspen, for,
two years ago on this very day Hans had met
his death.
As if these words had aroused the fury of
the elements, the storm-king 'woke with a roar
and a shriek ; the rocks and mountains caught
the sound and hurled it through the forest,
while the distant thunder answered the sum-
mons with a fierce growl. Up rose the pile of
clouds in mad fantastic shapes, and sped across
the sky, to cover it in an instant with a waving
angry chaos, like a tempestuous sea.
11Home !" I cried, in an agony of fearful ap-
prehension. "Home! for God's sake, if you
love your life!"
We ran at full speed, pursued by the storm
with blinding flashes of lightning, and pelted
by rain. Again I heard theild huntsman
careering madly onward   *    *    *   *
"Lord have mercy upon us, we have lost the
path I"
Night had closed around us as if sent down
from heaven or sent up from hell in an instant:
but there-was I mad, or was I dreaming a hor-
rible dream ? There, a clearing in the woods,
I knew it well; there a black heap on the
ground, a groan, a growl. Hans writhing in
mortal agony under the teeth and claws of th
black wofl/ I stood spell-bound for a moment,
it seemed ages. Fear, mortal fear possessed
me, and increasing, still mounting higher, it
well-nigh snapped the thread of life. The phan-
tom stayed, it was there before my eyes, it was
real; but thank God, I found strength to break
the spell of the fiend and flee away, to rush
through the woods as I had done two years
before.
My brain did not do it, for I had no brain
then; my heart did not do it, for it was like a
lump of ice in my bosom; by the power of in-
stinct alone I found my way to the castle, to
my own room, I burst open the door, and there
stood, not my wife, but the wolf, dressed as a
woman.   I receded, appalled  she advanced.
I saw the hungry eyes; I heard a snarling
growl, such as was etill in my ears; she threw
herself upon me; a faint struggle.; her teeth
were in my heart and 1 knew no more.
This is my story-after a long night of

blissful oblivion. I awoke in this cell, the cell
of a mad-house. I do not wish to leave it, for
it protects me. If I went abroad she would
follow me and get my heart, though now
when she comes, and she will come, she snarls
words of treacherous kindness to me.
If they would only leave me in peace ! Oh,
if she would only die ! But the insatiable
spirit of the Black Forest would send another
instrument of his vengeance, and it is better
that I should end my miserable existence
here.
And if the reader of this, should hear that
the noble Count of Unkstein died a maniac,
raving, laughing, and cursing, let him reflect
on my dreadful condition, and consider what
his own conduct would be were he subjected
to similar horrors. I am not mad. This is
what I ask the world to concede, and in un-
swerving faith I point to this manuscript as a
witness.
CHAPTER II
GOING.
"I have a mind presages me such thrift,
That I should questionless be fortunate."
MIEenCANT OF VENICE.
THE wind was on the beam, and blowing
fresh. and the "Glad Tidings" was plunging
along through the billows of the Atlantic. On
her deck were two young men, sitting in
chairs propped and braced to defy the law of
gravitation, so often embarrassing to the ship-
passenger.
Judging from their plain attire, neither
seemed to belong to the wealthier class of
society; but the refined and intelligent face of
the younger (he might have barely reached
his majority) at a glance told you that he was
a gentleman. The other contrasted strongly
with his companion; but especially in the ex-
pression of his face. He was short and slim,
while his countenance, though intelligent and
of an efeminate regularity bore the stamp of'
craftiness, and perhaps deceit. He might have
been his companion's senior by some ten years.
They discussedthe future which lay before
them in the new   world-for the "Glad
Tidings" was bound for New     York, and
another day of fair weather would bring them
within sight of the promised land.
"Stilletto,"lsaid Ernest Montant, for that was
the name of the younger; "4it is my firm con-
viction that I will succeed in America."
"Quite a natural sentiment at your age," said
Stiletto, dryly; and you have a great advantage
in speaking English as well as you do."
"why, as to that, although I am a German,
as you know very well, and born and brought
up in Hamburgh, my mother was an English
lady, and my father, one of those intellectual
Germans whose only fault is their ill-fortune,
after having lost all his money, is now living in
mnglandnn my mother's estates. But I asked
my parnt   or, a hunde  pounds and a few
letters to parties in New York, and here I

9

S
7
i
i
', P
t Y
_'
Y
'
; r.
z
i
'a
" L
L
x
_
e#
.
r
x :.
k  wC
x"- ,
-J i
C=
t'
2
.Y
_
Y
,
3
' 1
}
s'
t
r

8

FANTASY.

I

"You are certain of a situation upon your
arrival?"
"Yes: the arrangements were made before
I left London, and there seems no doubt about
the high standing and respectability of the firm
of Going &amp; Son, Bankers and Commission
merchants, New York."
" American business-houses are not founded
upon rocks."
"I must take my chances;'I am young, and
have no apprehension for my own future.
" I have told you that this is not my first visit
to America," continued Stilletto, "and to the
little information [ have given you, I will add
a good deal after our arrival. As for me, I like
New York. The women are beautiful."
Montant's face colored slightly as he an-
swered half audibly,-
"I am glad of it. More than most men, I
think, I am inclined to admire and appreciate
female beauty. I love a beautiful woman, for
to me she is the master-piece of God's crea-
tion."
" You speak too hotly for one of your age,"
said Stilletto, sneeringly. "Let us return to
the considerarion of your future, which seems
altogether in your own hands. For your own
good, I tell you that New York is a very queer
place. All the old teachings of conservatism,
the 'systems' of the old world, fall to the
ground there. We find variety and pleasure
in being rich to-day and poor to-morrow; we
make a fortune in a day and spend it in a
week, and our business principles do not savor
of great nicety, or of what the old world calls
'strict honesty.' Smartness is our watchword,
and our foremost men have a better reputation
than their consciences will warrant."
" I have heard this before," answered the
German, "but I don't, can't, and won't believe
it."
That is the answer of youth and inexperi-
ence ! In New York we only laugh at your
old-fogy routine.  And why not?  D'Israeli
somewhere says of the English that they think
too much of system and too little of men.
You will find that the American idea of busi-
ness is-a great struggle among individuals,
and that struggle is pushed to the utmost
limits of the common law, without reference
to any rules of hackneyed propriety or over-
strained conscientiousness. This is the world
into which you are stepping, so you may as
well make up your mind to it."
"My   mind is made up"-answered the
other, gravely. " I intend to stand above all
your irregularities, nor will I work for any
man, though he be the wealthiest in that great
city, who is not strictly conscientious in all his
dealings."
Stilletto paused for a moment ; but finally
said, quietly,-
" You are twenty-one."
"True, but I lay this down as my law and
mean to stick to it. I know that I am young;
but I have left my home, with all its luxuries,
because my pride would not let me be a
pensioner. I have proved that I am old
enough to choose my own road through the
world, arid I have the example of my father's
failure before me. Hie was honest at heart,

but too generous and confiding. As a conse-
quence he reaps a sad harvest in his old age,
I mean to do differently."
He arose and walked away. Stilletto, deem-
ing it best to drop the subject, went below to
amuse himself by tormenting a little monkey,
which he kept to vent his spite upon, when
his fellow-men objected too strenuously to his
efforts in that line on themselves.
*    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
" How different are the faces I meet, to those
in Europe," thought Ernest Montant to him-
self, as he made the best of his way to the
office of Messrs. Going &amp; Son, in Exchange
Place, New York City, to pay his respects to
that firm, for thefirst time. "There seems to
be much more life, wit, and intelligence in the
faces of these men. Each seems to be thinking
and acting for himself, regardless of others,"
he added, as a bank-messenger darted from an
office door and nearly knocked him down,
without ever stopping to apologize. "I don't
see any human machines, and I should not won-
der if Stilletto was right in saying that here is
a constant strife for individual superiority."
So meditating, he reached a fine building,
over whose door was suspended a black and
gold sign, Going &amp; Sox.  A highly ornate
carriage drove up as he read the name and he
saw two gentlemen descend, whom he correct-
ly surmised to be his future employers, Mr.
Charles W. Going and his son Walter. The
former was a remarkably handsome gentleman,
about sixty years old, with a noble head, a
hale, stout figure, and venerable white hair.
His son, taller, and perhaps thirty years his
junior, resembled his father in manly attract-
iveness, but his gait, as he walked into the
office, told of a reckless boldness, which might
become offensive.
"They must be a monstrously wealthy
house," thought he. "But few London mer-
chants would be seen driving to their places of
business in such a dashing equipage."
He entered the office; but not with beating
heart, for Ernest Montant knew nothing of
trepidation, although his quiet, self-reliance
was entirely free from the taint of arrogance.
He entered-the floor was inlaid with a mo-
saie of tiles, the doors and furniture were of
black walnut, the counters topped with very
tine French plate glass. Elegantly dressed
clerks were moving around, trying to look
busy, and a scornful expression on each
seemed to proclaim that they considered them-
selves part of the great house of Going &amp; Son.
"Is Mr. Going in, sir ?"
" Engaged, sir,-can't you tell me what you
want?"
Our hero did not relish the tone in which
the reply was made, so he said, rather per-
emptorily,-
" Take this note in to him."  The boy in
man's clothes made an impudent bow and
turned to deliver the note. At this moment,
Mr. Walter Going stepped out of the private
office, and noticing Montant, said carelessly-
" Why don't you sit down?" but our hero
thought to himself, " Either pay no attention
to me at all, or else be courteous."
Mr. Walter Going disappeared with the note


r

GOING AND SON.

I-

FANTASY.

and soon there came a summons for the new-
comer to the private office. As he entered, its
appointments impressed him with the idea of
a dandified nobleman's study, modified by fem-
inine tastes into a lady's boudoir. were it not
for a large, double desk, which occupied the
center of the room, where sat Mr. Going and
his son.
Mr. Going's face assumed a pleasant look as
he arose slowly, drawing himself up to his
full height, and held out his hand with grace-
ful, dignified cordiality.
"My dear Mr. Montant," he said, "1 wel-
come you here and to my house, with the as-
surance that I am most pleased to see you."
There was no pomposity in the tone or man-
ner, though, perhaps, too much dignity; but
when Mr. Montant took the proffered hand,
and looked its owner full in the face, he
found him so highly bred, yet so kind and gen-
tle, that his own heart beat warmly and grate-
fully in response.
"Walter," said Mr. Going, "this is Mr.
Ernest Montant, the son of a gentleman I once
knew very well, inHamburg. He is here as a
clerk in our house."
"IHallool " sail Walter, looking up from the
newspaper, which he had been reading care.
fully, and, rising with a sigh at the effort, he
shook our hero roughly by the hand, adding,
in a reckless, but not unkind manner, " How
are you, sir ? Well "-taking a good look at
him from top to toe-"you'd better go and
see my tailor. Of course, we don't care how
a man is dressed; but for your own sake I
must tell you that your appearance, at the
present moment, is a little verdant."
A glance from his father caused him to turn
away with a shrug of the shoulder, and resume
his newspaper and cigar, whose flavor had
somewhat astonished our hero when he en-
tered the room, fur in English otfices such
luxuries are generally considered irreverent.
"Mr. Montant," said Mr. Going, senior,
upon resuming his seat, and motioning the
new clerk to a chair, "I remember your father
as an honorable gentleman, and a remarkably
clever business man."
H His success in life seems hardly to warrant
the latter compliment, Mr. Going," he replied,
with a sigh.
I know of his misfortunes;" replied the
merchant, "but these may happen to any
man.' (This was spoken so earnestly, that our
hero noticed itdwith some wonder.) "Success
in life is accidental, and knowing what are
your father's talents and principles, I can not
blame him for what, as I said before, may
happen to any one."
Montant felt that he would like to argue the
point; but, young as he was, lie had already
learned that it is sometimes best to hold one's
tongue, so he merely bowed an assent.
GI have a situation for you," continued Mr.
Going, but I can not promise to make it a
permanent one until we have tried what you
can do. You shall be the Assistant Cashier
and Book-keeper. As you speak English per-
fectly you have every chance of success, and
since you are recommended so highly, I will
give you a thousand dollars a year."

" I am very much obliged to you, sir," said
our hero, honestly; "it is more than I had any
right to expect."
Mr. Going nodded graciously, and added :
" We have a little German correspondence, if
you feel competent, I will make this a part of
your duty."
"Very well, sir," he replied; but thought
what a strange system there must be in the
house where one young man was intrusted
with being assistant cashier, book-keeper, and
corresponding clerk.
The door opened without an announcing
knock, which seemed very strange to our hero,
and when a gentleman entered (without taking
off his hat), the new clerk naturally arose to
leave the room; but Mr. Going told him to
keep his seat, which seemed stranger yet.
" What a country I" he thought.
The new-comer was very young, and either
employed an excellent barber, or had no need
to be shaved. He was dressed like a coxcomb
prepared for a promenade, and wore diamond
studs. He looked like a Jew, he spoke like a
Jew, and, in fact, he was a Jew. Mr. Walter
Going immediately asked him:
" How is Pumpernickle Mining, Solomon ?"
"I'll sell at four'n'af, buy at three-eighths,
give you a good option at three-quarters, or sell,
you buyer three at live-eighths, sellyoua put for
a thous ad, for two thousand shares at a half,
buy you a call at the same price for five hun-
dred, market going down, corner in it, think
they'll danirew the stock, just bought three
thousand at an eighth cash."
Montant looked at him in astonishment,
for all this had been said in one breath, and
with a rapidity which seemed perfectly mar-
velous.
" Well," said Walter, leaning back and
lighting a fresh cigar, "how is Melodram
Quickstilver ?"
"Just sold two thousand shares at an eighth,
market strong, bulls buying up all they can
lay their hands on. I'll sell at three-sixteenths,
buy at a quarter, sixty days' margin, ten per
cent, no puts in the market, calls plenty at a
quarter a share; think I'll sell another thou-
sand at a quarter cash."
"He always ends with 'Cash,'" thought
our hero, biting his lips to keep from laughing
outright. "It seems to be the 'Amen.' I
wonder if all the stock-brokers in New York
resemble this one, in having an enlargement
of his windpipe and the St. Vitus' dance in
his jaws."
"Come here," said Walter to Mr. Solomon,
and they retired into a corner of the room. As
Montant now rose to leave, he heard the Jew
say, with a suppressed vehemence, which
made his voice sound like a distant crackling:
"Bet you two to one Erie ain't going up;
ten to one, gold will be lower ; even, that
Blackhead &amp; Co. are busted higher than a kite,
and Whitefoot made piles of greenbacks. So
you see I'm right, you're wrong always. So
don't believe it? Stake your money, here's
mine Cash "
Mr. Going accompanied our hero to the
door.
"I fancy that you would prefer to comn-

11

mence work to-morrow," he said. "We count
upon seeing you to-night, at dinner-Number
up Fifth Avenue, at six, punctually."
As Ernest thanked him, he continued, "An-
other point,-Walter shall look into your per-
sonal comforts. Have you found a respecta-
ble boarding-house and reasonable prices? A
stranger, you know-"
" Through the introduction of a fellow-pas-
senger I am comfortably quartered in Brooklyn,
at five dollars a week."
"I am glad to see you begin by living within
your means. Few young men stick to that
principle in this city, Mr. Montant, and now
let me ask, are you provided with ready mnoy ?
If not, I'will allow you to draw a month's
salary in advance." ,
"I have yet a hundred pounds, so I do not
need it; but, believe me, sir, I appreciate your
kind offer. I do not intend to draw my salary
for the first year."
"You will find it a hard task."
"I have done harder things than that, sir.
Again I thank you for your kindness. It is
greater than I dreamed of. Good morning,
sir."
'To-night, at six-Remember!,"
When our hero reached his boarding-house
he partook of his luncheon and philosophized
over the events of the day.
" It is all very strange, this house of Going
&amp; Son," he soliloquized.  "They volunteer
more salary than I could expect-they drive
to their office in a dashing carriage--and that
heavy compromise between a swell and a lout,
YTalter Going. By St. George, an English papa
would send him off shooting, racing, betting,
any thing to keep him out of his counting-
house ! And this sandy-haired lion domineers
over the coxcomb clerks, and is a full, active
partner withal ! But Mr. Going-I would like
to put him in the center of the London mer-
chant-princes and say to them, 'Gentlemen,
here is a specimen I caught in America; but
I will match him against any of you I'  But
only personally--yes, only personally I His
business principles--(and here the young sage
shook his head)--well, they are not mine; and
as long as-they are not mine of course I can
not admire them. And how singular that a
man in his position should say, ' A merchant's
success is accidental!' Indeed I do not think
so. But, come what may, I mean to rise in
that house, and anyway I shall never forget'
my reception by an American gentleman in New
YorkI"
Punctually at six o'clock he arrived at the
superb mansion of Mr. Going in Fifth Avenue.
He had crawled into his full dress suit, made
by a London artist, and looked graceful, re-
fined, and even captivating, when he toet the
members of Mr. Going's family. le returned
to his boarding-house about midnight ; but
was in dreamland long before he could get to
sleep
" Her face-her figure-her speech-every
thing," he cried, as ho paced the room.
"She is the most beautiful girl tinder the
sun-she must be the most beautiful girl
under the siun! I am not in love-that would
be imnousible, so soon; but, as the Maniac

10

says, ' I soon shall be, if I go there often.
What a pretty name,  Jessie Going.' She will
be gone soon, doubtless, for half New York
must be running after her."
He was quite excited by the impression
made upon him by Mr. Going's only daughter,
whose name, perhaps not so pretty as our
friend then imagined it, was, as we have just
heard, neither Angelica, nor Evangeline, nor
yet Madeleine, but simply Jessie, which, being
considered too long by her father and brother,
called for abbreviation into Jess. And as our
hero called that name to memory, there seemed
a heavenly melody in the monosyllable, which
must have originated in his own brains.
"Such splendid black hair-what a contrast
to her yellow brother! Such eyes-and the
classic face! I can draw it from memory-
and the graceful yet stately figure-such a
neck! and-aand-1'll go to bed," he cried, an-
gry with himself; but, before he commenced
that action. lost himself in dismal reflections.
"She is rich and at the top of the ladder, and
I am poor and at the very bottom, what can
she be to me," &amp;c., &amp;c. But suddenly recall-
ing Stiletto's assertion, that business in Amer-
ica was a strife amongst individuals, he con-
soled himself with the thought so common to
youth-" Perhaps I have just as good a chance
as any one."
CHAPTER III.
MR. STILLETTO'S ABODE.
"If thou wert honorable,
Thou wouladst have told this tale for virtue, not
For such an end thou semek'st, as base as strange."
CYMBEmLtE.
ERNEST MONTANT made his appearance at the
office at eight o'clock next morning, but found
that at this hour the porter was wont to begim
sweeping the rooms, with his mind perfectly
easy as to the arrival of the gentlemanly
clerks.
Somewhat astonished at this discovery, al-
though it seemed in perfect keeping with the
general style of matters in the house of Going
&amp; Son, our hero determined not to make
that mistake again. So he passed the time as
well as he could out of doors until the sweep-
ing was finished, when he learned from a lit-
tle chat with the porter, that Mr. Going was
the finest gentleman in America, Mr. Walter
a born prince, and Miss Jessie, an angel, body
and soul.
" How coarsely these uneducated people
pronounce names," thought our hero, in
whose ears that word Jessie, was ringing and
re-echoing in accents of heavenly music as
performed by his enthusiasm, with a chorus
of angels.
The clerks, as he soon discovered, were in
the habit of " coming down" at half-past nine
to ten, the cashier at half-past ten exactly,
and the partners in their carriage at eleven
o'clock. The hour of leaving was not less
peculiar, but more- on a par between the
" castes " of the office, for the partners would
leave at four o'clock; and five minutes later,


FANTASY.

GOING AND SON.

C
Y'
_   r
t5
i_
H,
ttI
ii
E'
F
E
E
x
ty
x ;
t _
r
k
} t
f
e  t
t
a

all the clerks would follow, which made things
very pleasant for the porter and janitor, with
their various friends, who would hold conver-
saziones in the offices during the balance of
the afternoon.
At first, the porter resented the imperti-
nence of the new clerk, in "coming down" alto-
gether too early," whereupon the insulted one
narrowly escaped being knocked down, and
only got a lecture.
"My good friend, if I were Mr. Going, I
I should tell you that this is not early enough ;
but quite late enough for you to find another
situation. Besides, I intend to stand no im-
pertinences from you, and if you differ from
me, we will argue the point in the private of-
fice as soon as the firm arrive."
To which the porter made no reply; but in-
formed his wife that afternoon, that Mr.
Mountain was an aristocrat, and no mistake.
But his silence at the- moment calmed the ris-
ing choler of our hero, and by a little general-.
ship, he won the porter's confidence (although
he remained an aristocrat in the honest man's
eyes all his life), and the friendly conversation
brought about the first-quoted outbursts of
eloquence on the subject of the Messrs. Going
and Miss Jessie.
During the day our hero had but little
to do, as usual on first appearances; but he
saw a good deal. Ile saw that Mr. Solomon
was sent for twice, and that his lightning-like
eloquence exceeded yesterday's, that bank-
messengers were received and dispatched -
that Mr. Going's face was troubled-that the
old cashier frowned and figured away violent-
ly all day-that Walter swore great oaths at
somebody and at the bank-that said bank had
refused a discount, although Mr. Going was
one of the directors-in short, that the tirm
was pressed for money and did not make up
its balance at the bank-all of which seemed
more and more strange in so large a house, for
he did not read in the newspapers that money
was " tight "in the market.
But he also had reason, even that day, to be-
lieve that the firm was largely and handsomely
connected-that Mr. Going stood very high-
that his private property was comparatively
immense, though somewhat encumbered, and
to come to th'e conclusion that it was good-
hearted confidence in his employees, and want
of management on their part, which so put
matters out of shape. His final resolve was
-I shall stand by the old gentleman until I
can be of service to him, and as long there-
after as God pliasos."
So he went home to his modest dinner at
his quiet boarding-house, and then, in accord-
ance with at promise given on board ship, he
went out to hunt up Stilletto's present place
of abode.
Somewhere in the suburbs he found a neat
house, in a quiet street, over whose door was
the sign "August Muller, Attorney and Coun-
sellor at Law." As this corresponded with
the address given him by his friend, he rang
the bell.
A bright boy, with blue eyes, flaxen hair,
and German physiognomy-, loened the door,
and, upon inouiry, said that his papa and Mr.

Stilletto had just finished supper, and would
be found in the parlor.
He entered the designated room; but it was
so filled with smoke, that at first he could not
distinguish the inmates. By advancing toward
the center of the room, and straining his eyes,
he discovered first a nose, which was red'
then some disheveled hair, and a long goatee,
-also red, then a long attenuated face, which
was pale, then a pair of mischievously blink-
ing eyes,, which were of no color at all, and,
finally, when he had wiped away the tears
that the acrid fumes had brought, he found 'a
long, bony body of a man, which, together
with the clothing thereon, gave a general im-
pression of dirt.
All these articles joined together constituted
a human shape, which was - sitting up at a
table playing cards, supported by a glass of
lager-bier and a pipe, and confronted by Mr.
Stilletto, with his sallow  and treacherous-
regular face, with his piercing impudent eyes,
and his small body curled up like a snake.
At the sight of our hero, the mysterious
philosophy of the cards was left to itself, and
the itroduction by Stilletto of "his esteemed
friend and fellow-passenger, Mr. Montaut, son
of Mr. and Lady Montait, of London," to the
red nose and appendages of his "old and inti-
mate friend, August Muller, late of the Court
of Wumtemburg, and now lawyer by profes-
sion and philosopher by inspiration."
"Mr. Montant," said the philosopher, in a
voice like a cracked kettle-drum,  Mr. Mon-
tant, you are welcome! when August Muller
says, welcome, he means not the hackneyed
term of hypocritical worldliness, he means not
a hollow sound, an empty, shallow epithet, he
means welcome to his heart and to his home,
now and hereafter. I can not ?/et call yotn
friend (holding the guest's hand in his own,
which was rather moist and slightly clammy),
for a friend of August Miller has to earn his
spurs--but you are a friend of mayIfriend, and
therefore, I repeat to you now and forever-
welcome!"
Mr. Muller was, to all appearances, intoxi-
cated.,
"So you are living here, Stilletto," said our
hero, in want of a remark that would not
show his disgust, but a slight stress of voice
on the last word of the sentence betrayed
hinn.
"Yes, sir. I am living here, and very com-
fortably. You must excuse my friend" (with
his usual blunt impudence), "for he has
drunk too much beer."
"I like it," seid Muller, coming from  the
sublime to the ridiculous; "it makes me sleep
well."
" Do drunken men dream? " asked Stilletto,
maliciously.
" I am not drunk," remonstrated the philos-
opher. " I shall repose to-night by the side
of my beloved wife-an angel who conde-
scends to perambulate the rough path of life
with
" A drunkard, who beats her occasionally,"
interposed Stilletto, dryly.
"'Thiat, Mr. Stilletto," replied Mr. Muller,
gravely, " is not so much a mistake of yours,

I

as the result of the vile tongues of this world,
who delight in calumniating a man who des-
pises it."
" And the world returns the compliment, 1
hey ?"
"I' The world is hard, very hard on the
poor," said Mr. Muller.  "The world hast
driven me from posts of honor to the dens of
misery; from the service and confidence of a
king to the vocation of a Tombs lawyer,a
whose humiliating  profession consists in
snatching criminals from the grip of the law.
But my family must have bread, sir, and I-"4
"Must have whisky and beer," interposed
Stilletto, disagreeably. (It was evident that
the monkey would rest in peace that night.)
Then he added, seriously,-
"My friend Muller is an excellent man at
heart, and you can trust him. I am very glad
that you came in, as I want to speak to you
on a matter of business, which will give you
a big chance to make money-more money in
six months than you can save from your
salary in six years, in the meek and lowly
capacity of an honorable, half-paid, kicked-
and-cuffed clerk."
"Stay," said Mr. Muller, "stay but a mo-
ment, and allow me to introduce my family to
the friend of my friend, for greater title than
that I would not give to the Emperor of all
the Russias, were he now present."
" Which he is not," interposed the genial
Mr. Stilletto.
Mfr. Muller went to the door, and bawled at
somebody to come in, "and quick at that."
-"Now you will see some fun," said Sti!-
letto.
In came a woman, a neat, docile creature,
who might once have been possessed of char-
acter and beauty. The former had turned to
total apathy ; the latter still remained visible
in her face and figure, for physical beauty
often is ineradicable.
,With her were three boys, in one of whom,
our hero recognized the lad who had opened
the door for him. But the bright, childlike
cheeriness which had struckhim at first was
now gone-chilled into submissive fear in the
presence of his father,
After Mrs. Muller had been introduced as
the philosopher's "loving and adored better-
half," she retired to a far corner of the room,
and sat down near a table.
"Now, boys!1" cried Muller; "Attention!1"
The boys stood like leaden soldiers.
" Forward, march 1"
They marched as if their lives depended on
their accuracy.
" By the right flank I" - "By the left
flank I" -  " Right face!" -  " Left face!"
-"About face I" &amp;c., all was done as if by
puppets moved with wires. No animation, no
childlike pleasure, no soul in the presence of
the great philosopher.
" halt I"
There they stood, immovable--a piteous
sight.
" Karl, who is the god of the Jews ?"
" Moses," was the half-unconscious answer.
"Friederich, who is the god of the Turks ?"
"Mohammed," was the parrot-like reply,.

12

"Now look out, gentlemen ItGeorge! who
is the god of the Christians ?"
" Blockhead," replied the youngest, with a
listlessness, as though he intuitively felt the
monstrosity of the answer.
" Hal hal hal" laughed Muller, and Stillet-
to joined in; but our hero looked toward the
mother, who sat at the end of the room-not
mechanically, as at first, but with bowed head,
and weeping bitterly.
In a few moments, however, she arose, and
stepped boldly up to her children, kissing
every one in quick succession, and hurried
them to the door ; but Muller interfered, in a'
vindictive tone,-
" Mariana, I am not done."
She tried to turn around in defiance, but her
spirit was broken; she could not confront
him; yet her motherly instinct to save her
children prevailed, and in spite of him she
pushed them out of the room, and followed
them without a word.
" My wife, like all good women, is religious,
you know.    But this-this that you have
heard, Mr. Montant, is my teaching, and the
teaching of our present enlightened German
philosophers."
" Mr. Muller," said Ernest, unable to control
his contempt, "you are my countryman, and I
shall not accuse you of a desire to belittle and
disgrace German philosophy; but if you were
a stranger and a foreigner, and told me what
has just past was German, in any sense of
the word, I would give you the lie, as plumply
and as broadly as you could wish." Mr. Mul-
ler was not prepared to do battle with his
equals; so he took some more beer.
" Come, now, let us have a sociable talk
about the business project I mentioned, which
originated in the philosophic brain of Mr.
Muller, and which is to be given to the wqrld
by the practical ingenuity of Antonio Stilletto,
now pauper; but millionaire 'in spe,' which
being latin, is to be translated for friend Mul-
ler's benefit. It means, in the future, Au-
gust."
" My education, sir," commenced the injured
philosopher.
" Go on with our business," interrupted
Stilletto, impatiently.
" Well, sir, in the weste  part of this State
there is a county called Hocus County. One
of its townships, called Pocus Township, con-
tains the Ilobgoblin farm. This farm is owned
by August Muller, and August Muller pro-
poses to sell the said Hobgoblin farm to the
Hobgoblin Mining and Manufacturing Com-
pany, for the sum of fifty thousand dollars,
in cash, and three hundred thousand dollars
in shares of the capital stock of said company,
taken, of course, at their par value. Antonio
Stilletto will, on his part, sell and convey cer-
tain patents he holds, to said company; patents
which will enable them to utilize the mined
material, for the sum of twenty-five thousand
dollars, in cash, and two hundred thousand
dollars, in stock."
'Is the company to know what you paid
for these lands, Mr. Muller ?" asked our here.
" August Muller's affairs are open to the
world," was the pompous answer. " He


GOING AND SON.

r
r
tx
z
f
r  t
f{
r,
i
a   '
}
a
F
{
t
_.i
f ^E r
1F ft
i
4 ak,
a     '
yb
ea
5
F
f
"''''SSSSSS 3   r
.1
;! r, k
t s
i
Y
z i
S
j
t
Y-
M

i
3
r3-
.
E
i

knows not what it is to conceal, unless it
becomes his solemn duty towards his friends,
and humanity in general, to do so. On this
point, then, I feel obliged to answer you by a
courteous negative."
While Montant moralized over this strange
speech, and its unexpected finale, Mr. Mul-
ler descanted on the great benefits to' be
derived by wandering underneath the surface
of the Hobgoblin farm, and of the immense
obligation to himself and Stilletto, humanity in
general would stagger under, all of which, as
Ernest Montant did, we shall pass over, as
being of no possible interest.
" The capital stock of the company is to be
two millions of dollars," concluded Mr. Muller.
"You will see that of this, one quarter must
be transferred to Mr. Stilletto and myself.
This would leave a million and a half to the
subscribers. Of course some money must be
raised at once-at least two hundred thousand
dollars; for I must have my fifty thousand,
cash, and my friend twenty-five thousand, and
then one hundred thousand must be spent on
the farm, in mining, and building the factory.
The remaining twenty-five thousand will do
for minor expenses, such as fitting up a
splendid office, advertising, and feeing edit-
ors, &amp;c.
"And how do you expect to pay a respecta-
ble dividend on such an enormous sum as two
millions of dollars ?" asked our hero in aston-
ishment.
"I confess that I miss my accustomed con-
fidence in my plans, on that little point," an-
swered the philosopher, with a slightly trou-
bled look.  "It is true, that though our
profits will be immense, I can not see that we
can possibly pay more than seven per cent."
"Why," cried Montant quickly, "if they
would be satisfied with calling the capital
stock a million, the dividend would be four-
teen per cent., and the shares would be worth
double as much."
"My dear friend Stilletto and I will be in
the ring, and we shall want all that stock to
operate with. It is absolutely necessary to
make a large show ; we shall lend the company
money, if necessary, to declare one or two
la)ge dividends, and quietly work off our stock
during the excitement."
"I see it all now," said our hero, with ill-
concealed sarcasm. "It is a beautiful idea.
I suppose poor tradespeople, tailors and shoe-
makers, will buy that stock and pay their hard-
earned money into your hands. Of course it
will be a safe investment for them," he added,
bitterly.
" I have told you before," interposed Stil-
letto, dryly, " that moralizing is not a word in
the American vocabulary."
" And I have told you that you are mistaken
in your one-sided view of the American char-
acter," cried Montant, angrily, but he con-
trolled himself, and, as he had no objection to
hear more of the scheme, he submitted to a
long and minute disclosure of one of the most
intricate and deeply laid plans for defrauding
the public, imaginable.
The result was that he left the house, hay-
ig promptly refused to mix himself up -svith

Hobgoblin or to bring it to the notice of his
employers, whose capital and influential name
were coveted by this worthy pair. From his
immediate acceptance by one of the wealthiest
firms in New York, Stilletto believed our hero
possessed a great hold over the firm of Going
&amp; Son, and tried hard to coax him to exert his
influence in favor of Hobgoblin.
As he walked home that night from August
Muller's house, he thought to himself, won-
deringly, "How can these men be so absurd
as to expect me, a young fellow just entering
an office, to have such an influence with the
principals as to be able to induce them to enter
on such a vast enterprise upon my recommen-
dation."
But he did not know Stilletto's ideas on that
subject, or that men remote from such society
as that in which Mr. Going moved, are only
too apt to overrate all those who seem to them
on an equality with the coveted aristocrats, or
he would not have been surprised at Messrs.
Muller and Stilletto for grasping eagerly at the
slightest chance of opening negotiations with
Going &amp; Son, and entirely overestimating his
influence with that firm, from their ignorance
of all above their own low Cunning.
A few days after our hero's interview with
Messrs. Stilletto and Muller, Mr. Stilletto, who
seemed to have forgotten the rather sharp re-
marks of Ernest Montant, prevailed upon the
latter to accompany him to the house of a
friend, in fact, a relation.-
Not yet acquainted with the different locali-
ties of the city, our hero was not aware that
Antonio led him toward the lowest, vilest
neighborhood, until the character of the streets,
and the people they encountered, reminded
him of similar sights in London, and he recog-
nized that class of dens which resemble each
other the world over-sailors' dance-houses.
It was a scene not without a sort of fascina-
tion for those who like to study the different
phases of human society without stopping at
what offends delicate taste. The streets were
alive with a queer company of men and women,
many of them inebriated, some singing, others
talking very loud. Glaring lights streamed
from the windows of the tottering houses,
from the unobstructed hallways, from the old-
fashioned half-doors. Sounds of shrill music
and coarse laughter filled the air, which
seemed to roll sluggishly in this conglomera-
tion of dens of vice and crime, while mocking
hilarity marked the wretches that only came
forth in the night like wicked owls.
Many a shadow flitted by, once filled with
sound flesh and quick blood, but long ago
shrunk into a grim ghost of its former self;
in many a face, haggard despair and awful
depravity struggled for mastery. In that queer
and shocking crowd there glittered many uni-
forms in dignified contrast, for the police had
perfect control of this ward, as Stilletto in-
formed our friend.
"I am glad of it," said Montant, somewhat
relieved.
" Do you know why?" asked the Italian.
"I dare say, New York is becoming civil-
ized."
." That is not the reason. The police are in-

efficient and corrupt enough, but in this Fourth
Ward they are absolutely forced to be masters
or they would be annihilated in a week."
" I am not surprised at that," said Montant,
and yet I like to observe these people at
times. I dare say, there are many among
them who deal out much charity to their
wretched neighbors. And a certain joviality
is not to be mistaken. True, that the misery
and terrible vulgarity staring out at every cor-
ner are horrible, but there is a quaintness in the
whole lively scene that stands in interesting
contrast to the gilded high-life of fashionable
quarters."
"You see, people are more Parisian here!
They live more in the streets than up-town
folks."
" I prefer even these crooked and tumble-
down streets to the interior of those houses,
each looking like a tottering temple of iniquity,
rotten with the excess of depravity. But since
you have brought me here, where are you
going to take me? Although a visit to such
quarters can not be misinterpreted as a tour of
dissipation, yet I confess that another place
might be deemed mdee fit for a young clerk---
"Here!" interrupted Stilletto, as they now
stood at the door of a crooked dwelling, all
lighted up within, and strains of confused
music bewildering the visitors, whom it was
calculated to entice.
" I won't go in here ! What place is it ?"
" The Countess," answered Stilletto. " It
is the most noted among the Italian boarding-
houses in the city."
'  And does your relative live here ?"
" No," answered the other, after a moment's
consideration.
" Then, where lives your friend?"  -
"We shan't go to see her-or him to-night.
Come in."
Montant, with the imprudence of youth,
entered. It was a queer place. A spacious
room filled with wild dancers; the women all
old and homely, dressed in very short frocks,
and atrociously painted, and without youthful
appearance in spite of gay ribbons and luring,
indecent behavior ; the men mostly belonging
to the nautical persuasion and all inebriated;
the room hung around with queer ornaments,
consisting in endless strips of yellow and red
papers pinned up to the ceiling in the form of
hanging baskets and large stars.
On one side there was a platform, perched
upon which an old maestro was fiddling away,
his gray hair nearly gone with dissipation,
his toothless mouth grinning demonlike, his
cadaverous face in ugly grimaces, and his lean
body distorted like a Pickwickian goblin on
a tombstone. Near him a lad was playing the
tamborine, holding it in a dozen places at
once--over his head, under his feet, on his
back, and everywhere except in a natural
position.
But the most interesting personage was the
countess. She looked tall, behind the bar
over which she sold vile liquors to the reeling
guests.
When Montant had been told by his com-
panion that she was the titled mistress of the
-house, he remarked,-  '

"What a strange face! Although she is an
old and withered hag, I am certain she must
have been beautiful. But what a mouth she
has!"
" What is the matter with her mouth?" ask.
ed Stilletto, quickly.
" When she laughs her coarse. laugh, she
looks like a-"
" Like a what ?"
"Like some snarling animal. Like a
wolf!"
Stilletto started. Grasping his companion's
arm, he cried, fiercely:
"1 Have you-do you know-"
"Let me go I" replied our hero, shaking
him off, "What has possessed you?    She
does look like a wolf, and this place has satia-
ted my desire to see low life. Let us go."
At this moment one of the dancers pushed
violently and intentionally against Montant,
who was neither difficult to irritate nor slow
in action, so he knocked his assailant, a dirty-
looking but broad-shouldered fellow, into the
middle of the room. In an instant an ugly
crowd threatened our hero.  The countess
jumped into the midst of it, and Montant no-
ticed that she was a small woman, for she
habitually stood upon a bench behind the
counter. A little man, very round and short-
haired, also interfered, and, although-he wore
no weapon or emblem of authority, the assail-
ants recoiled from him.
" You're a gintleman," said the little man
quickly, to Montant, "Come out o' this. This
ain't no place for yoa/"
And, before he knew it, he found himself in
the street with the little man by his side.
" Now you're out of it-cut /" said the lat-
ter.
"You are a police officer ?"
" Yes, and can tell a gintleman. You're a
stranger here ?"
" Yes, and would like to know the nearest
way to a hack-stand."
"Come along, then: I'll show you."
" My friend has remained in there," said
Montant, whose quick eyes the fact had not
escaped, that Stilletto had slipped away behind
the counter as soon as symptoms of a disturb-
ance occurred.
" Let him go," said the little man, and as they
walked on briskly, he asked,-
" What the devil makes you come to sich
places ?"
"My friend-"
"Yes-I forgot your friend !"
After a short walk, during which neither
spoke, they reached a place where they found
a carriage.
Montant comprehended the policeman's mo-
tives quite easily. He had indeed recognized
in him a gentleman, and had taken him out of
that "no-torious den of stubborn thiefs and
mankillers," as he called it, with a view to
earn a good fee. After our hero had volun-
teered the latter, he asked,-
"What is your name, sir ?"
" Mr. Stump, sir-of the Metropolitan head-
quarters in Mulberry Street."
" Well, good night, Mr. Stump !"
" Good night sir and thankee."

14

FANTASY-.

15


16

GOING AND SON.

p
lii

FANTASY.

As our hero- rode home, he came to the!
conclusion that Stilletto had taken him to the
" Countess," for the purpose of drawing him
into a row, and probably with the hope that
his late traveling companion, who had given
his views too plainly during the interview at.
Mr. Muller's, would receive a good thrashing.
" What a fool I was to be led away in this
manner," soliloquized Montant. " I think,
however, that this experience will suffice to
make me wiser."
CHAPTER IV.
THE PRIORY.
There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple;
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
Good things will strive to dwell with it."
TEMPEST.
Miss JESSIE GoING might have commenced
it, or the old gentleman might have brought
it about, or Walter Going might have been
the cause ; but the fact is, that after a few
months our hero found himself not only a
personal friend, but an always welcome guest
at the grand house in Fifth Avenue.
Miss Jessie decided that she liked him be-
cause he was so different from other gentle-
men she had met. Mr. Going, for reasons of
his own, had, at first, treated him with more
consideration than the other clerks, and soon
became convinced that, in business or away
from the office, he was in every -way their
superior; and even Walter, after finding out
that the new clerk would not allow him to
patronize or tyrannize, treated him first as his
equal, then as a first-rate fellow, and finally
selected him as his especial friend and coin-
panion.
It would have been unnatural had so young
a man as Ernest Montantt not been gratified
and proud at his personal success with people
who, in point of education, name, wealth, and
position, were among the tip-top aristocracy
of New York ; but he tried hard so to shape
his conduct toward his fellow-clerks, as to
allow them to forget as much as possible that
he was an object for envy. But he did not
entirely succeed, for he was never admitted
into that sort of masonry which always exists
among the clerks in one office.
Mr. Going, with the fine instincts of a true
gentleman, observed and appreciated his ef-
forts to overcome the prejudices of his col-
leagues. Walter Going laughingly advised
him to let them go to the devil, and promised
to clear them all out, if he found cause for
serious complaint, while Miss Jessie declared
that he was the only gentleman from the
office that she ever could endure.
So it will not surprise us very much to see,
in this phaeton, just driving away from the
door of the house in Fifth Avenue, Ernest
Montant, seated by Walter Going, who was
driving four-in-hand, while Mr. Going occupied
the back scat with another gentleman. This
other gentleman was very fat, and his face
was very red. and his head very bald uinder-

neath his pompous, broad-brimmed hat. His
features were good-even attractive to some;
but the close observer noticed something disa-
greeable in his expression. Was it selfishness?
Was it sensuality? Was it brutality? Was it
conceit ? But his acts and words, as recorded in
this veracious narrative, will tell us plainly
the character of Mr. Christian Fatman. the
great banker and financial man of Broad Street.
He was well dressed, even foppish in his ap-
pearance, and had a fat laugh that sounded
fatly good-natured.
Away they went on that fine, bracing
spring morning. It was one of the few holi-
days permitted in New York, and the party
were going to visit a large estate fifteen or
twenty miles from the city, which Mr. Going
contemplated purchasing. The four splendid
bays, well handled, danced through the city,
through the park, out on the wide smooth road
in the welcome sunlight, where Walter cracked
his whip, and away they-flew, while everybody
looked out as they passed, some admiring, some
envying, some even scowling; but the boys on
the road-side cheered then vociferously.
"It is a palatial residence, the ' Priory,'-a
palatial' residence, Mr. Going," said Mr. Fat-
man. "I would like to buy it myself, if I
could afford it."
I am not so sure that I can afford it," said
Mr. Going, gravely. " And then the expense
of keeping up such an establishment."-
" You may get it for two hundred thousand,"
replied Mr. Fatman."  " And, besides, they
will leave one hundred and fifty on mortgage."
Our hero pricked up his ears at the word
"mortgage," and ruminated gravely. "When
I buy a palatial residence, I shall pay cash for
it. Mortgages are the first underminers of a
house, and betoken a poor foundation."
" The property is sure to rise in value," said
Mr. Fatman, " and I expect to see the day
when that two hundred acres will be worth
double what you will have to pay for them.
If I understand the matter, old John Jacob
Van Strom would never sell it, if his son were
not a sort of cross between an idiot and a
maniac."
" He has been in the lunatic asylum. once
already, has he not ?" asked Walter Going.
"Yes; and should be there now. It is a
great pity that the elder son, George, died of
drink. He was a fine fellow, and I knew him
well. What in the world made him, rich as he
was, and married to a beautiful woman, go to
the dogs, I can not imagine."
"She is very handsome, eh ?" asked Walter.
"Superb! A figure like Venus; in fact.
the most voluptuous woman I ever saw-ex-
cuse the expression, Mr. Going. Look to your
heart, Walter; and you too, Mr. Montant."
Walter whipped up his horses, and made no
reply; except an incredulous smile, which our
hero seemed to understand, for he half-smiled
himself.
" The old fellow, you know, is a queer
fish," said Mr. Fatman. "His son's craziness
is not altogether an original accomplishment,
and old Van Strom, for some reason or other,-
'pen my word I don't believe he knows him-
self,-hates this young widow, this -Joseuhineo

17

Van Strom. He barely permits her to live at
the 'Priory,' although she is as poor as Job's
turkey, having only a few hundreds a year
from the estate of her father, General McLane.
I wonder what she will do when the place is
sold, for the old man intends to take John to
Europe, immediately, I understand?"
"Old Mrs. Van Strom is dead, and young
John unmarried?" asked Mr. Going.
"John Jacob is a widower," answered Mr.
Fatman. Mr. Going heaved a sigh, for a few
years ago he had buried his own wife.
"I am quite interested in all this, Mr. Fat-
man," said the old gentleman, "for, though I
have met Mr. Van Strom, I never heard his
family history. I wonder if I could not make
some arrangements for the comfort of the
- young widow, in case I buy the estate."
'Always chivalrous, father," laughed Wal-
ter.
"Yes, as an old man should be. You, young
gentlemen, as a rule, are chivalrous only to
the young and fascinating; I endeavor to pro-
tect and assist all the sex, young or old, hand-
some or homely." He said this quietly, with-
out ostentation, and many of his friends knew
that it was true.
Time passes rapidly when one is in motion,
and the square, fast gait of the horses short-
ened the tedium of the long drive. Walter
Going and our hero kept up a conversation in
a confidential undertone, probably on a confi-
dential subject, for they had become intimate
friends since Ernest had showed that he
loved cricket and played it well. "No man
who is fond of violent exercise can be an en-
tire fool," reasoned Mr. Walter, and upon
coming more in contact with his friend, he
found that he was the most taciturn man lie
ever had met, with reference to his own or
other people's affairs, so he gradually unfolded
to him a secret, a great secret-that which had
made our hero smile when Mr. Fatman cau-
tioned Walter to look to his heart when in
Josephine Van Strom's presence. This secret
we must leave unraveled for the present, for
here we are at the "Priory." "Turn to the
right, Walter, over' that bridge, for Van
Strom's estate consists of that island, and this
bridge spanning that small arm of Long Island
Sound, connects it to the main-land, and West-
chester County."
"Splendid trees!" said Mr. Going.
"Noble, royal trees!" added Mr. Fatman.
"So far the thing is glorious I" cried Walter,
as they dashed along a winding road through
the park.
"List to the rooks," quoted Mr. Fatman,
laughing, as they startled some old crows
overhead.
"Swell place this," said Walter.
"A palatial residence," corroborated Mr.
Fatman, leaning back in style and comfort, as
theyemerged from the woods, and a long curve
arGund a beautifully sloping lawn brought
them to the door of the house, massive and
noble in its appearance.
"Good architecture, good walls, no humbug
about this," said Mr. Fatman, gathering up his-
fatness to alight.
"Woodbine and honeysuckle to the very
2

roof. This is indeed a place after my own
heart!t" said old Mr. Going, with real enthu-
siasm.
" A palatial residence, indeed," said Mr.
Fatman.
They were met at the door by a small old
man, with thin legs and a bald head, who
bade them welcome in a whining voice. This
was John Jacob Van Strom. Behind him, in
the doorway, loomed up a shadow-a creature
of the imagination, a lank creature, an awk-
ward creature, whose arms were too long,
whose forehead was too low, whose eyes were
too small, and whose nose and jaws were too
protuberant.  This was John Jacob Van
Strom, Junior.
Leaving the horses to the care of the
groom, the party went into the house, where
they were expected. Mr. Going, Mr. Fatman,
and Mr. Van Strom walked together, and
John Jacob, Junior, followed his father like
a cur, with a vapid grin, leaving Walter and
our hero to make observations to each
other.
" The very doors have a port-wine look
about them; see how the old varnish has
become crusty. This is the place for a gentle-
man to live in. What dinners could be given
in this dining hall! Do you see these oak
panels? - these old carved side-boards?-
this grand old table ?-And can't you imagine
my father sitting at the head of it, a large
company around it, and the dinner arranged
by me ?  By George! we must buy the place!
And then the view from this bow-window !
Look at the Sound, and the boats, and think
of fishing, and yachting, and smoking a fine
cigar in this back piazza after dinner, hey, my
boy!"
They walked back into the great hall, which
reached up to the very roof of the house.
" Look at these confounded old family por.
traits," said Walter. "I dare say they are
the old Van Stroms; but if the old fellows
were as ugly as they now look, all covered
with dust and cob-webs, I do not wonder at
the physical attractions of their last edition,
J. J., Jr."
" I see you can become quite enthusiastic,
Walter."
"About a place like this, certainly. Like a
fine old English gentleman, all of the olden
time," he hummed gayly in response.
They visited the bedrooms up stairs and the
billiard-room, and the picture gallery (without
any pictures.) Walter decided that it would
make a capital ball-room, and so they finally
came down stairs to the reception room,
where a lady awaited them. She had superb
golden hair, framing a face of exquisite com-
plexion, and a softness, of manner, an un-
speakable delicacy,. and yet warmth, in all
that she said and did, which especially
charmed the young men.
" This, gentlemen," said old Mr. Van Strom,
in his cracked voice, "is my daughter-in-law,
Mrs. G. Van Strom, with whom I am not on
very good terms."
She colored deeply; but her features re-
mained unmoved, and with downcast eyes
she made a courtesy.-


GOING AND SON.

FANTASY.                         19

jf

"Madame," said old Mr. Going, coming
heartily over toward her, "I am half ashamed to
force so many gentlemen upon your solitude
at once; but I hope you will excuse us, and
believe that we are doubly honored by your
father-in-law's kind introduction."
Mr. Van Strom did not notice this well-
merited rebuke.
"This'gentleman, who is so kind to you,
Josephine," he continued, brusquely, "is Mr.
Going, who will probably buy the place, and
this, is my friend Mr. Fatman."
Mr. Fatman spoke out hastily: "Madame,
I am quite sure that were I your father-in-
law, my taste is sufficiently cultivated to ap-
preciate you, and remain on the best terms
with you."
Mr. Fatman meant well enough; but his
coarse nature prevented him from seeing that
he only brought up the unpleasantness again,
and in far worse taste. Josephine, after hav-
ing bowed to the gentlemen, said softly, but
in a pained voice,-
"It seems strange to me to receive you,
gentlemen, in this house; but being the only
lady here, I must do the honors, and welcome
you all, as though it were mine, for to-day."
" Come along to the stables," cried Mr. Van
Strom.
So they left the poor. widow in the draw-
ing-room and inspected the stables and pad-
docks in which some ancestorial Van Strom
had once kept his racers, perhaps with a crazy
idea of introducing the " Derby" into America
before America was sufficiently civilized for
that amusement, as Walter Going remarked
to his companion.
At all events, the stables were now empty
and dilapidated, and the paddocks resembled
the ruins of some field fortification, interest-
ing, perhaps, to the antiquarian, but not in
the least to a horseman.
"I shall repair the inclosures, take out the
stones and rocks, rebuild the stables, and
make a place of it that will challenge all
England!1" cried Walter, who this day seemed
to have exchanged his usual dull and blase
manner for the merry fire of a school-boy.
"Do you keep no horses, Van Strom?"
asked Mr. Fatman.
"Yes, sir," was the reply, as he led the way
to a tumble-down barn, standing separate from
the stables. "Ikeep a pair of carriage horses,
and my son has a light mare,"
" The best mare in the country," said John
J., Junior, smiling timidly.
" Let us see them," suggested Walter ; and
after groping amongst hay and dirt, and the
rotten remnants of stalls, they discovered two
black animals, and one yellow one.
" These black ones are the carriage horses,"
said the lord of the "Priory," "they were
bought-"
"By your grandfather, sir ?" queried Wal-
ter, dryly, as he examined hem.
"By my father, sir," answered the other, a
little severely. "They are only about twenty
years old."
Walter nodded his unqualified belief in the
statement, and proceeded to look at the appa-
rition in the third stall.

"I'll lead her out, sir," said John J, Junior,
mildly; and by a good deal of " Whoa, pet1"
and " Come, girl," and great exertion, he finally
produced the creature to full view.
"That's a noble mare," said Walter, biting
his lips.
"I thought you were a horseman!" cried
John, with delight. "You look like a horse-
man, give us your hand, sir. Indeed, you are
a judge of a horse. Now, this mare, gentle-
men, I love. Sho is the dearest, faithfullest
creature in the world, and unless she stands
still, I tell you she can go!"
"You don't say!1 That's wonderful," cried
Walter, much amused.
" What I mean by standing still is this, that
sometimes she takes a notion to stop short on
the road, and when she does, I don't attempt
to make her go."
"I would not if I were you," said Walter,
sagely; and so the mare was dismissed, and
the party turned toward the house once more.
"These lawns remind    me   of  'merry
England," said Mr. Going, "and the trees are
the finest I have seen on any gentleman's
place this side of the Atlantic."
Mr. Van Strom looked pleased, as though he
thought the price of his estate was growing
larger in his guest's mind, and led the way to
the gardens, graperies, and hot-houses. Mr.
Going enjoyed the examination exceedingly,
and busied his imagination with planning the
improvements he would make after he had
bought the "Priory."
"IIow did the name originate ?" he asked.
"The 'Priory?' Oh, there is a long story
connected with that," said old Van Strom.
"Tell us the story," suggested Mr. Fatman,
but the lowering brow and melancholy ex-
pression of Mr. Van Strom's face forbade fur.
other questioning, as lie said,-
"I would rather not. It is an old family
legend, and discusses subjects which, at my
age, I should shrink from approaching, lest I
arouse the dead too soon to receive me among
them. Let it pass, and I will show you the
last vestige of the actual 'Priory."'
By this time they had walked entirely
around the house, and reached an old but
still mighty elm, upon one of whose branches
hung a large bell. It was a very curious bell,
of a yellow composition, and not unartistically
decorated with bas-reliefs, representing de-
formed human figures, such as monks, with
dwarfed legs and wooden coats, and women,
with outlandish noses and horrible mouths.
" Its proper place is in the turret on the
roof," explained Van Strom, "but I had it
taken down and put here for convenience
sake, as I use it to call the men from the field
at dinner-time."
" And they say-"
" Never mind it, John," said his father. "It
can not interest the gentlemen."
But Mr. Fatman was not to be balked thus;
so, with an engaging smile, he encouraged the
young man to continue.
" They say, that whenever any of the family
are going to be very sick or die, or something
dreadful is going to happen, that bell rings oni
the night before, and, if it happens only the

next night instead of the next morning, it
rings again while things are going on."
" This is indeed the story, gentlemen," said
old Van Strom, " but, of course, we can not
expect you to believe it."
"Why, everybody must believe it, father,"
said John, fearful lest his wonder should lack
credence, " for it rang the night before mother
died, and the night before George died, and
the night before Joe's little girl died, and the
night-,,."
"Never mind, John," said the old man, dis-
mally, "this is not a pleasing subject anyway,
and the bell can only ring twice more and then
it may burst."
"These are cheerful specimens of humani-
ty," said Walter Going, im the ear of Ernest.
"I think they have a couple of ghostly bells
ringing in each of their monstrous ears."
-       may I inquire," lie said aloud, " who it is
that rings this instrument on such occasions."
"God only knows,'t replied the old man,
looking upward."
"If my father buys the place, I shall make
a vigorous attempt to share that knowledge,
and if I find a human brute at the rope, I'll
lower the bell, just over his head, and ring him
deaf and dumb," said Walter, decidedly.
From the dissension of this mystery they
were called to lunch, which was served in the
dining-room and presided over by Mrs. Van
Strom. As the three elder men had now ar-
rived at the question of price and terms of
payment, they, with young John, occupied one
end of the table, so that Walter Going and our
hero found their places on either side of the
fair widow.
"We shall have the pleasure of your com-
pany till evening,' gentlemen, I hope," she
said, in her rich, deep voice, that had withal a
sort of metallic tone, indicative of a very warm
heart. Our hero, too, watched her closely,
and admired her considerably.
Yes, madam," replied Walter, " we will
take the liberty of resting till four o'clock,
and, as it is only half-past twelve now, you
will have to put up with us for some hours yet."
"It is quite a change, and a real pleasure
for me, to see any one nowadays," she said,
with a sad smile. "This place, which, with
hospitality and good company, could be made
all that is delightful, is dreary and lonely
enough for the solitary woman incarcerated
here."
Although the words glided from her lips in
a half whisper, old Van Strom had, in all like-
lihood, overheard them, for, when luncheon
wis barely finished, he said with an angry
scowl.
Josephine, my dear, coffee and cigars are
not generally graced with ladies' society, as
you should know by this time."
She arose and moved to the door, but all
the guests arose with her. In their respectful
manner she recognized that-they felt for her,
and as old Mr. Going shook her by the hand,
with that kindness and delicacy which every
woman appreciates, and thus manifested his
sympathy; she felt the tears starting to her
eysand was forced to leave the room ab-

18

Mr. Fatman could not restrain himself
"Van Strom," he- said, angrily, "I have
known you many years, and I take the liberty
of telling you plainly, that your treatment of
your daughter-in-law is a disgrace to your
good name."
"No, no, no, my friend," answered the half-
witted old man, " You don't understand the
case - I have remembered her handsomely
in my will," and he winked at the young men,
aind smiled cunningly.
" I bet he lies," whispered Walter to his
companion, and we may as well inform the
reader that his opinion proved correct. John
Jacob Van Strom, among other freaks of ec-
centricity, had taken such a dislike to his fair
relative, that he indeed denied her all assist-
ance during his life and after his death, be-
yond the bare permission to remain under his
roof.  Even this was so much accompanied
with coarse insult, such as we have witnessed,
that she only staid there for a few weeks at a
time, preferring to live as she might, on her
almost beggarly means, than to submit and
endure, where submission and endurance be-
came revolting.
No definite result, with regard to the pur-
chase of the property, could quickly be reach-
ed with so whimsical a character as old Van
Strom. One moment he would be ready to
close the bargain, but the next would sudden-
ly change it to the conclusion that, after all,
he would keep the estate, were it only out of
respect to the seedy-looking, ancestorial assem-
blage in the hall.
After coffee, cigars, and petits verres, they
inspected the wine cellars, closets, and plate,
finding many treasures laid up by the great-
grandfathers of the present owner,,probably
unknown, and certainly unappreciated  by
him.
Finally, they resolved to spend the remain-
ing hours before their departure in the open
air, so they sallied forth in a body into the park.
As the conversation still ran upon matters of
business uninteresting to our hero, he saunter-
ed apart to enjoy an uninterrupted soliloquy.
The sky being very blue and the air very
balmy, his heart warmed to a sunny object-
and he thought of Jessie Going.
" Am I in love with her or not ?" he asked
himself, thoughtfully, "I hope not," he con-
tinued, sagely, and after considering all the
pros and cons with care and close scrutiny of
his heart, he finally came to the conclusion,
that, although he might be 'smitten,' yet there
was nothing like a settled passion--a hove,
which, if disappointed, would interfere with
his peace of mind.
" It is certainly quite natural that I should
be fascinated by a beautiful and accomplished
woman in a station above me, who has shown,
by many kindnesses and little marks of atten-
tion, if not decided preference, at least hearty,
goodwill toward me. On the other hand, I am
convinced, after cool deliberation, that I am not
in love, which shows that I am not so very easily
won, and that I possess quite a modicum of
independence. The conquest of a weak heart
cnnot givecy.a woman much satisfaction, I

" 3
t2
I


ju
Iir~

LND SON.

FANTASY.

20                               GOING A
Losing himself in thought, he also lost his
way in the park, and was wandering whither
his rambling would lead him, when a few
steps brought him out of the trees, and show-
ed him a fine view of the Sound. Within a
stone's throw stood a summer-house, fantasti-
cally built upon a rock. and, approaching it, he
found himself in the presence of Josephine
Van Strom.
CHAPTER V.
JOSEPHINE VAN STROM.
"I am too fond; and therefore thou may'st think
ty 'haviour light,
But trust me, gentleman, I'l1 prove more true
Than thnse that have more cunning to be strange.',
RMoEo AND .ULIET.
SHE was reclining in a rustic arm-chair, ap-
parently unconscious of her surroundings,
and lost in thought. Though her gaze was
directed toward the extended view of the
Sound, there appeared no enthusiasm in her
dreamily lustrous eyes for the beautiful
scene. Our hero did not wish to disturb her,
but could not forego the pleasure of watching
her, unobserved himself. At this moment of
supreme repose, her purely classic face pre-
sented to his enthusiastic mind, a living
image of the Queen of Heaven, as painted by
Raphael; with womanly holiness; but also
the passions and sufferings of her sex written
in it, all framed in the golden glory of her
hair. The beautiful contour of her figure was
half hidden, half indicated by her loose sum-
mer dress, her round and snowy arm peeping
out of the white folds, and her hand, itself a
gem of soft perfection, rested upon a little
table beside her, where she had laid her straw
hat and some wild flowers.
Ernest Montant was not bashful nor yet
systematically bold, and gazing, he finally
made up his mind to speak to her.
"iMrs. Van Strom," he said,. when he found
that she had not heard his approach, "I hope
you will pardon me for this interruption."
She started at his unexpected voice, and
with a woman's instinct turned full upon him
to judge his motive.  The inspection was
satisfactory, for she smiled, a smile which
blended the little stray wrinkles of care and
sorrow about her full and charming mouth
into the loveliness of youth and beauty to
which her years entitled her, though the
littleness of man had imbittered her short
life.
And indeed she was not the only woman
who would have graciously smiled upon him as
he stood in the vigor of young manhood, with
his clear red and white complexion, his eyes
sparkling, perhaps with admiration for her, his
attitude graceful, and his voice deep and melo-
dious. Long afterward, Josephine acknowl-
edged~ that the strength of will he uncon-
sciously displayed, in trifles as in more
eventful moments, formed his greatest charm
for a woman, and on his forehead seenmedl
written :-Indomitable moral courage, un-

faltering, inflexible integrity of character;
and through every change of his dark blue
eyes there shone an earnestness, which
proved none the lest powerful because often
softened and diverted by the sprightliness of
his youth.
" No interruption, sir," she said, gathering
her light shawl around her shoulders, "for
I was doing nothing in the fullest sense of the
word. Will you take a seat ?"
So he took a seat, and, when invited by her,
he produced his cigar-case and lighted a fra-
grant Havana.
" My husband was a great smoker," she
said, with a sigh, "so I am accustomed to it."
"1I have heard of your misfortunes and with
deep regret Madam," replied our hero.
" They have been great, sir, and you will
find in me a very lonely woman, and much to
be pitied, for I am only twenty-one."
There was a charming navietd in her man-
ner of speaking.
"Do you not go into society, Mrs. Van
Strom ?" he asked.
"My father-in-law," she replied, coloring
slightly, "does not see fit to permit me any
pleasures, with the exception of tolerating me
here for a few months in the year. Now that
the place is to be sold, even that comfort will
be denied me."
She said. all this very simply and uncom-
plainingly, and then, changing her tone,
added,-
" I do not know what makes me speak of"
myself to a stranger, as if I could expect him
to find it interestin'."
"Perhaps he is finding it more so than some
of your nearest friends," said he, smiling.
" I know to what you allude; but I am so
resigned to what I have to undergo, at the
hands of my father-in-law, that my feelings
have become blunted."   Something in her
tone contradicted this assertion, and as she
rapidly turned her gaze to the endless watery
waste of the Sound, there ensued a pause.
"Do you know, sir, that I have not yet
become acquainted with your name ?" she said
after awhile.
"My name is Ernest Montant,"-ho answered
promptly. " I am a clerk with the house of
Going &amp; Son. My father is in England,
and is a former friend of our senior partner."
" In England ? But I should have taken you
to be a German."
" I am German," was the answer ; " German
by birth, half German by blood, and entirely
German by persuasion. if I may so call it;"
"I like Germans," was her reply. "They
are more intelligent than other people, and
have more heart, I think."
" If I were not a German I would venture
to say you are right."
"I can not bear people who seem to have
no heart," said Josephine, warmly.
"-Because you have a very warm one your-
self," cried our hero, boldly, for her simplicity
and artlessness seemed so genuine that her
words went to his heart, and he felt impelled
to speak without restraint.
" Do you think so?" she asked, coquettishly,
and looking him full in the face with her

great blue eyes. He could scarcely meet her
gaze unflinchingly, so he answered,-
"I can only tell you, Mrs. Van Strom, that,
in my humble opinion, you would command the
devotion of many, so that I think you should
not be altogether dissatisfied with the lot ac-
corded you. Call this flattery, if you choose.
I never flatter, and seldom speak as plainly,
I assure you, as I have just spoken to you."
"I believe you are sincere, Mr. Montant,
and it would be absurd and untruthful in a
woman like me to deny being truly gratified
by your praise."
It would be hard to tell how it came about,
but rarely do two people approach intimacy
as rapidly as did our hero and the lovely
widow. They arose to take a walk.
" There is another little island, quite stony
and deserted, connected with, this one by a
sort of dilapidated dam or mole-if you are
not too fatigued I will show it to you." So
said Mrs. Van Strom, and our hero followed
her most willingly. The wind was fresh, and
blew the folds of Josephine's light summer-
dress tightly around her. Hers companion
possessed a high and manly purity which we
shall always find in him, but he could not help
wondering, as the spring breezes revealed
to him more of the widow's palpable charms,
that George Van Strom should have been
such a fool as to kill himself by drinking.
They stood upon the rocks which reached
boldly out into the sound, and watched the
waves breaking at their feet with useless per-
severance. le spread her shawl out upon
the sunny stones, and sat at her feet. - As he
looked at the water, and the sky, and at her
face, and into her eyes, the genial sun shone
into his heart; and she-had she not, at their
very first meeting, felt that sympathy toward
him, that confidence, that budding affection,
which knows no cause or reason, but is one
of the mysterious works of Nature ?
" Near this place," she said, " I first heard
the vows of my husband. I was then but
seventeen, and I believe I was so inexperienced
and impressible that any man whom I did not
positively dislike could have prevailed upon
me to accept him. The moon was shining
brightly and the night was divine. He was a
handsome, good-hearted fellow, and I was a
foolish child.- I accepted him-we were mar-
ried that same summer, and before my childI
was born I was a widow. My happiness had
been buried long before the grave received
the remains of his weakness and folly. This
is my history."
"And it is a history," said he, gravely,
"which, though its outlines be before the
world, can not be understood by a soul on
earth but yourself. A loving heart forced to
witness the gradual living decay of the being
it most cherished. Oh. Mrs. Van Strom! I
can not mention but I can go ans at the details
of your sufferings, and if, to- lay, you were to
be married to a friend of mine, I would take
him aside and say to him, ' From the moment
you claim her as your wife, you should con-
sider yourself the means selected by Provi-
dence to reward her for her trials. 11cr suf-
ferings in times past must be present with you

always; they must stand between you and
your faults, between you and all temper and
discord; and they should inspire you with the
sacred duty of living for her happiness to the
latest breath of your existence!'"
He did not know why he thus spoke to her.
She did not know why it was, that, although
he raked up the buried past, his words did not
wound her, but solaced and comforted her be-
yond measure.   She looked at him-in her
eyes there stood sacred tears.
"Speak on," she said, softly. "I could lis-
ten to you forever."
Beware, Ernest Montant !  You and this
woman are on dangerous ground; and if you
had more experience with the sex, you would
read danger in the throbbing of your own
heart, danger in the expression of that Madon-
na-like face, danger to you and your prospects
with Jessie.
But he talked away, in manly and yet sympa-
thetic accents, until the bright tears streamed,
unchecked, down her cheek. He arose, took
her hand and begged her pardon.
"Pardon? For what, my friend," she said,
composing herself. "This conversation has
been like a sunbeam in my dreary life, and yet
I never knew you before to-day. It is very
singular-" she ended, shaking her head
dreamily; and he echoed the sentiment, and
the drowsy trees heard it and rustled it to
each other, and the zephyrs breathed it over
the silver ripples of the water-all nature
heard it and knew it before. "Singular," and
yet not new.
" Well," he said, in an altered, manner.
"Well, I suppose that this gentleman, to
whom I was going to give all this wholesome
advice, with such astounding impudence, will
soon make his appearance."
Josephine shook her head with a smile.
"No," she said, "I have not been in love
since I was a widow. I don't know how it is,
but my heart has become unimpressible."
Ile stole a sly but searching look at her
face as she said the last words, and said,
laughing,-
"I believe, if the right man should come
along, your stoicism would melt away like
snow in the sun."
"Quite possible," she answered, coquettish-
.y, " but the right man has not come, as yet."
What a fool Ernest Montant is making of
himself. Those words "not come as yet'" have
vexed him as though he had thought he might
be the right man.
"Mrs. Van Strom," he said, "I must ap-
pear very impertinent. Tell me, is it really a
fact that you have not been in love since your
widowhood, or are you politely telling me that
the atairs of your heart are no business of
mine,- and that you have no intention of mak-
ing a confidant of an entire stranger ?"
" What I have told you is true," she an-
swered. "I Ihave been free from even a pass-
ing fancy for any one, and for that matter-"
"Well, for that matter ?"
" I do not know why I should thus confide
in you. Do you believe that some natuires are
wrought in shapes of sympathy with each
other so that when they meet there is a sort

:
#;
f :
_ t.
r}

of


7  !
!.
t"
i'
_ ifi,
'f
f=
F"
'   '
S
1
f,
j  Sf ,
.. .

of instinctive freemasonry established at once
-a confidence which is from God ?"
" Indeed I do," he replied earnestly. " Have
you read Goethe's Wahlverwandtschaften ?"
"Yes, that is, a translation of it, for my
acquaintance with German is limited. I think
the English title, ' Elective Affinities,' does not
quite express the meaning; but the novel is
superb, and I have pondered over it often.
Well, then," she continued, "I think that our
meeting has proved the truth of Goethe's be-
lief, that the mysterious affinity between hu-
man natures will have its way in spite of con-
ventionality and the natural distrust of new
acquaintances."
"And upon that theory, which I joyfully,
thankfully accept," said he, "you base the de-
sire of telling me-what ?"
" I was going to tell you that I have only lov-
ed once, in my whole life, and that was a school-
girl's whim, which fortunately resulted in-
nothing."
"And your husband ?" 'he asked, almost
appalled by the manner in which this lovely,
guileless woman was opening her secret heart.
"I never loved him," said Josephine, so
softly that the manner in which it was utter-
ed, almost hid the awful significance of the
speech: "I never loved him."
Ho remained silent.
" Do you see those waves, swelling and
surging, and beating against this rock? They
have probably bathed it, embraced it, .and
rested by its side for centuries ; but there is
no love in their contiguity, their natures are
different, there is no affinity between them,
and though the rock may sink into the sea, or,
the sea rise up and cover the rock from view,
they will be enemies forever.  Though the
rock may conceal a handful of water in a
crevice, though the water may wash away
particles of the stone, the stone will return to
stone again, and the water to water, at the
first opportunity. They never may unite.
Such has been my married life."
"And yet," continued the widow, dream-
ily, " I think I know what love is, though
it has not fallen to my lot, as yet. I am sure
that I could be so enwrapped in love that my
individual existence would be entirely lost
sight of. It may be that my guardian angel
has kept me from this danger, knowing that
it might destroy me."
With these words she arose'; something, it
might have been that guardian angel, told her
that she was going too far. le followed her,
respectful and self-possessed.
By a mutual impulse they took a silent fare-
well of the spot where Josephine's husband
had first plead his cause so successfully, and
where she had this day formed a new friend-
ship, and, perhaps,-but who can tell?
Mrs. Josephine Van Strom has been placed
before the reader, in a very peculiar position,
and one which might lead to a hasty decision
that she was a very weak and silly woman,
yet h  -unrestrained, impulsive, and, may be,
unwise   k king, arose from no weakness, no
sill iess, no levity, or lack of modesty. She
had tasted too deeply of the fountain of disap-
Doinltment to be easily lead to unveil her heart,

but when the outside covering of reserve was-
once cast aside from her, the warmth of her
nature gushed over all bounds of worldly-wise
caution. Yet so correct is the intuition of
such passionate hearts, that it preserved her
from misplacing confidence, and the extraor-
dinary intimacy sprung up between themas just
narrated, astonished her thoroughly, as she
thought it over. Still, her heart had dictated
it; her heart, in spite of reason, approved it,
and her heart, that sole authority in a woman's
breast, was full of the image of Ernest Montant,
with his earnest face and musical voice.
They walked together over the meadows
toward the house, with its massive pillars and
stately air, arm-in-arm, and conversing on the
topics of the day. They lingered, and their
footsteps dragged as they approached the
door where they must part.
" When car I see you again ?" he asked,
eagerly.
"When you wish. It will give me great
pleasure to see you soon."
" And should this house be sold, Mrs. Van
Strom'?"
"Then I shall move into a quiet cottage,
somewhere in New England. I like the
country and the people there, and have many
friends among them. You know my father,
Gen. McLane, although a Southerner, married
a Boston lady, and lived in Boston after going
on the retired list. Besides, I think I can
make a cheap arrangement, and yet live respec-
tably, near that city; and I assure you that
money is a great consideration with me."
Ernest Montant'sthoughts instantly went
out toward this lady's needs. "So young, so
beautiful, and so poor," he thought, "how I
wish I could do something for her."
"How can I make an excuse to come here ?"
he said, dolefully. " Mr. Van Strom would
certainly never invite me."
" And I can not; so here it can not be, unless
some business matters between Mr. Going and
my father-in-law should require a messenger,"
she said, slily.
" Oh ! the ingenuity of woman," cried our
hero, laughing. "I can easily arrange that,
even though the business were only of suffi-
cient importance to save my dignity as em--
bassador. I know Walter Going so intimately,
that I am sure of a satisfactory result there.
But; suppose you should be away when I
come," he suggested.
" Well, perhaps you had better send me
word,-a card or note."
"And suppose you could not stay at home
on the day that I appoint, or should be indis-
posed. You know that I could not come here on
business very often. Will you answer my note ?"
"Well-as it seems necessary-yes."
He took her hand and kissed it. She left it
in his listlessly for a moment, and looked at
him tenderly, with her glorious eyes. It was
a dangerous moment. She broke the spell by
giving him a slight tap on his cheek.
" After all," she said, "you are only a boy."
And yet Josephine Van Strom was not a
coquette. Never in her previous experience
.had she permitted a flirtation like this, amid
certainly this sudden attack seems rather

severe. So, at least, thought our hero, as he
turned the matter over in his mind afterward;
and he even reproached himself severely for
having carried matters so far. So chivalric
and high-minded was he, that he never
thought of attributing part of the blame to
her; but accused himself of having perhaps
convinced her that he had fallen desperately
in love with her, which, as he assured him-
self, was a mistaken impression.
He had been many times enraptured with
Jessie Going ; we have seen him fascinated
by Josephine Van Strom; but he loved
neither the one nor the other.
Mr. Van Strom, with his guests, were now
coming over the lawn, still in earnest conver-
sation, and the first words we overhear are
from the old gentleman.
" Well, Mr. Going, in a week from to-day I
will give you a definite answer whether I will
sell the Priory, or not. Mark you, two
hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars is
the price, two-thirds to remain on bond and
mortgage, five thousand cash on the day of
sale, when we sign the papers, and the bal-
ance after the title is searched out, and the
deed is delivered into your hands.
"Exactly so," replied Mr. Going; " and now
we must ask for our carriage, to return, for it
is five o'clock."
So the horses came up with a great deal of
unnecessary stamping, and rearing, and neigh-
ing, and snorting, and after the usual amount
of hand-shaking had been done, and Mr.
Going had almost affectionately bidden Jose-
phine good-bye, and after that lady's soft little
fingers had given our hero's hand a little soft
squeeze, which he did not forget'immediately,
there cane a crack of the whip, a general
farewell, and away they went, all too soon outo
of the widow's sight, who stood watching
them to the last. And when the rattle of the
wheels had died away, she felt that the load
she had carried so long, though lifted off for
one bright afternoon, had fallen back upon her
heart, heavier than ever.
She sank into one of the chairs on the front
piazza, and wondered why the gentle breezes,
coming freshly from the hills of Westchester
County, did not waft to her listening ear even
an echo of those noisy wheels, which had
seemed to fairly fly away from her-perhaps
forever.
Before her lay the flower-beds surrounding
the house, and yonder was the lawn falling
away in gradual slopes. As she looked atten-
tively at the little flowers and grasses, it
seemed to her dreamy imagination, that they
were crowding and jostling each other in
dwarfish disturbance, trying to get a last
look at the fast dying sun in the West. At
the foot of the lawn, the grand group of dark
and silent trees, tinged by the sun, wore gold-
en-crowns and the hills and rocks were light-
ed up by his last rays with an infinity of colors.
What a study for the painter. The hovering
shadows rolling over the green hillsides, the
granite rocks shining now in silver, now
19

fading  away  to  blue, now    to  violet;
the gray-blue clouds towering in massive
shapes, while the little white ones clustered
around like effigies of cherubim upon a back-
ground of endless blue, shaded by the last
rays of the sun to gold, as though the fields
of heaven lay there, according to the teach-
ings of our childhood.
Josephine Van Strom watched the scenery
till her eyes moistened and the little tears
stole out to catch the sunbeams like the flow-
ers at her feet. Her heart throbbed and her
face glowed as if a meteor had arisen on the
horizon of her soul, while the sun was sinking
yonder. Was it so? Had the morning dawned
upon her which brings to woman new light,
new life?
She laid her hands on her throbbing breast:
had the stranger only stimulated a fleeting
fancy, or had she already, in one of those
moments upon which hangs a lifetime, set her
heart upon his image, clutching it firmly to
have and to hold till death should part them?
As yet there is but a zephyr astir in her heart,
as in the air around her rippling the water
but gently and only rustling softly the leaves
of the trees ; but, it may soon increase to a
gale and arouse the horrors of the tempest. It
may grudge the moon to the patient earth this
very night, it may hang this beautiful world
now spread before her admiring gaze, in cheer-
less mourning, and sleep may be banished from
your couch before you thiik it possible-poor
Josephine.
Already the breeze becomes stronger, and
now that'the sun has fairly set, it brings with
it a warning chill. A change comes over the
scene ; but, what is that streak of pale gold
glinting through the trees? It spreads .its
luster and expands like magic over the lawn,
it trembles from leaf to leaf, from flower to
flower, and-coats the dark trees with silver, it
lies on the roads, runs along the fences; light-
ens the whole country in an instant, it flashes
up the water and glitters greeting from the
distant hills-it is the new moon.
" Welcome, oh star of love!" said Josephine,
from the depth of her passionate soul. " Light
up his pathway wherever he goes ; shine into
his heart and bring him tidings of what you
have read in mine own, for-God help me-
I love him I"

*      *     *

*

And, meanwhile, the four bays were scam-
pering along the ioad and stamping through
Central Park, and rattling over the pavements
to the house where Jessie Going awaited the
compamty to a late- dinner. Ernest Montant
did not speak a word during the whole ride,
but sat biting his lips and comparing Jessie
Going and Mrs. Josephine Van Strom, repeat-
ing to himself again and again, that, since he
did not love both (of that he was quite cer-
tain), and was unable to decide upon a prefer-
rence, he therefore loved neither of them,
which conclusion invariably proved very pro-
vokingly unsatisfactory.

22

FANTASY.

23

'

_   j
4t  a
:!!j 2 {i ;
1a }i,
ti

=.s
,.
:  ,

GOING AND SON.


GOING AND SON.

j[f5
}E} 4{ F
)
'
{# If
_  g;j
'   s
i
# .:
r i'     i
":   .
s:     +
_  .
'          # f
I
7    f
}
a
x # t    .
14f t  S
f t a;
ly
r  s
i
i f  I
S
1
}  i}
'   ij  i
F t e
j  r ,i
       ;
E        t  i

CHAPTER VI.
HOW JOHN JACOB VAN STROM, JR., GOT MAR-
RIED.
" If thou wilt needs marry, marry a fool."
HAMLET.
JOHN JACoBVAN STROM, Junior, was, as we
have seen, the happy proprietor of a yellow
mare. Her poetical name was "Bella." She
was not quite sound in body ; but, in the
language of her owner, "she knew as much as
any human being," which might have been
correct had John considered his own mental
caliber as the standard.
Like most of her gender she was born with
a strong will, and had never quietly submitted
to the humiliation of having her mouth pulled
to the right or left by the degrading machinery
called reins and bit. She only tolerated a
bridle upon the condition that it should be
strictly considered as a head ornament, and
she alone decided upon the road to be traveled
upon, the speed adopted, and upon the proper
moment and place to turn her yellow nose
homeward for dinner. John's greatest amuse-
ment was to harness this strong-minded
female, sit lazily in his rickety wagon, and
leave it to her superior judgment to decide
upon a pleasant excursion for the day. Enter-
taining himself then by conversing with the
mare, he was dragged along as resistlessly as
a child in a baby-wagon, and great was his
delight whenever his motor made an unex-
pected turn and varied the more familiar
drives, by attempting short cuts through the
woods or other unfrequented places. It must
not, however, be omitted that when " Bella"
came jogging back through the park, John
made a pretense of handling the reins in fine
style, and when she considerately stopped for
him to alight, he always cried " whoa " very
imperiously, just as other folks with more
sense are apt to do, when wishing to hide
their incapacity before a criticizing world.
On -a fine afternoon, not many days after
the events chronicled in the last chapter, John
and Bella were peacefully traveling along the
high road, when suddenly the mare shook her
head, gave a saucy little kick at the traces,
and stood still.
Hallo !" said John to himself, "there is a
reason for this; she never stops unless some-
thing is in the wind. I shall wait and see."
It so happened that close by the road there
stood a rustic tailor's shop; but John took no
notice of his surroundings, being too busily
engaged watching the mare with intense ex-
pectation of a denouement. There he sat, the
reins thrown over Bella's back, curved like a
cat on a grindstone, his thin, smooth chin, and
protruding jaws resting on his bony hands,
his sharp elbows braced upon his angular
knees, his attenuated legs drawn up under
him, and his low, narrow forehead wrinkled
in wonder, for he was thoroughly convinced
that something remarkable was certain to
happen soon; when the door of the shop
opened and out stepped the tailor's daughter,
tolerably good-looking, robust, sprighmtly, neat,
and clever

"Good morning, ma'am," said John, touch.
ing his hat.
"Good morning, Mr. Van Strom."
"Eh ! you know    my name?     What is
yours ?"
"They call me Bella."
" The devil," cried he, " and don't you
know, my pretty girl, that I call my mare,
this mare, Bella, too."
"You surprise me, sir," she said, amused.
" And as your name is Bella, and the mare's
name is Bella, too, you must take a ride with
me. Don't object, jump in just as you are,
right off. I tell you, a Van Strom don't wait
for any one."   -
" I'll ask father," she commenced.
"Ask fiddlesticks !" he interrupted, angrily.
" Come this instant. The mare might start
if you don't hurry." he added, under his
breath, with a troubled glance at that animal,
who certainly seemed to have awakened from
her recent nap.
Bella had but little desire to avoid the frolic
offered her, and when he answered her sug-
gestion of the propriety of dressing up by an
impatient "Now or never," she jumped up
alongside him with an alacrity that threatened
to dislocate the springs, and the old mare,
seeing her namesake finally bagged, started
with a jerk that threw the still unseated fair
one upon the willing support of John's ex-
tended arm.
The laborers in the field stopped their work
to see the strange couple. Stragglers and
country folk whom they met, laughed and
passed impertinent jokes in a half-audible
tone as they passed; but "lie laughs best
who laughs last," and, before half an hour
Bella, the tailor's daughter, had the best of
the joke, for the sole heir of the wealthiest
man in the county had made her a declara-
tion of love.
Without waiting for an answer he took her
to his " throbbing heart," thus saving her a
world of remonstrance, gradual yielding,
blushing, and all other fine effects of pro-
priety used by maids in such cases--all of
which could so advantageously be dispensed
with, according to John's example.
" Bella, you don't speak, you don't answer,"
he cried, agitated by his rapidly changing
whims. " But let us leave the answer to your
noble namesake! Look there, my darling, see
yonder is the cross-road!1 My mare was never
guided by a strip of leather since I had her.
Now, if she turns to the right, we will be
married at once, within the hour. If she
turns to the left, we are parted forever 1n -
Bella agreed to this arrangement by which
the whim of an animal was to decide her des-
tiny; but, as they neared the spot, she deter.
mined upon trying a plan of her own to secure
the fortunes of the day. It was very deceit-
ful, doubtless very wicked; but did not the
prize at stake warrant the action, and was she
not a woman ? Blinding John with caresses,
she softly put out her hand toward the reins
and grasping one, gave one little but decided
pull to the right ; hlt all I there she missed
it. The mare, totally unaccustomed to siuch
liberties, stood still with amazement; then in-

dignation filled her soul, and, with a snake of
her head and a defiant whisk of her tail, with
true feminine contrariness, she wheeled to the
--left, and jogged-on leisurely in that direction.
Ha, Bella, woman !" .cried John, in great
excitement, " would you try to deceive me ?
Its foul-didn't I see you pull that left line?
Its awfully mean, I say. Oh, ye women, ye
women!"
Delighted at his mistake. Bella proposed to
try another experiment. But it proved not so
easy to suit John's whim. He suggested that
the next trial should be the first fowl that
crossed the road. If it should prove a rooster
-but she stopped him right there, and some-
thir else had to be thought of.
While he sat musing, almost in despair, her
quick eye saw a team approaching in the dis-
tance. " I have it," she cried, instantly. " If
the first team we meet is a double one, two
horses, you know, I will consent to-never
mind what, L oily one horse, farewell happi.
ness!"
Agreed.   The team    approaches, nearer,
nearer -two horses, of course, as Bella
thought, but when she prepared for a final
embrace, she was startled by the look of utter
misery which overspread his countenance.
"Bella," he sighed, "it's all over. It is of
no use tempting the fates any more, so let us
be resigned!"
"Oh, wretched tailor's daughter ! Oh, dis-
consolate Bella!"
"What can be the matter now ?" she gasped.
" Oh, darling of my heart," he cried, mourn-
fully, "that team, that team."
" Well, those two horses- "
" There were not two horses. Oh, my dear,
my sweet, my-there was but one horse ! The
other was a mule!"
For a moment the temptation to laugh out-
right at the intensely comical expression of his
face nearly overcame her, then her good sense
prompted her to end the farce at once, but she
acted differently. Like a good general, who
keeps his presence of mind on a battle-field
half lost, and knows how to turn the scale to
victory at an opportune moment, she was equal
to the emergency and sent her tears, -as light
troops, in advance, to gain time.
" Oh! you bad man," she sobbed, "you, to
talk of love. Oh, you deceiving, two-faced,
deep-plotting, scandalous wretch-Oh, you
heartless, mean, low, false, unprincipled-oh !
oh ! oh !" (Strong symptoms of hysterics.)
" Thus to treat me (gasps and sobs), thus to-
trifle with ale-such merciless tor-rr-ture from
one I loved so well !"  Here came a perfect
cataract of tears. -
"Don't cry, Bella," he blubbered, in implor-
ing tones. "It is not my fault. Have I cre-
ated that cursed mule ?  Can I help it that
his father was an ass?"
"lHe was not," she cried, vehemently, "the
thing's father was a horse!"
"But his mother was an ass !" he suggest-
ed, mildly.
"I tell you, John, the animal is a horse. I
know his father is a horse!1 Ask old Ben
Smith, who owns him; he lives next deer to
us, and I k-n-o-w it is a horse, a sweet, little,

24

FANTASY.

25

f;
t(
,4
_      '
i    i

black horse, with a star in its forehead, right
here !" and she pointed at her own forehead,
to prove this an accurate description of the
sweet, black, little horse.
" I admit that, darling, I admit that, but
that does not prove him a horse. For his
mother must have been-must, you know-"
"If your mother," she interrupted, hope-
fully, "if your mother was Miss Jones, and
your father Mr. Van Strom, what are you?
Answer me thatI"
"My name is Van Strom," he conceded,
puzzled.
" Then that beast is a horse," she cried, tri-
umphantly (" and you are the ass," she added,
good-humoredly, to herself).
So, proving her superior knowledge to his
utter discomfiture, she took advantage of his
amazement and addressed herself to his affee-
tions, for he really seemed to love her, and
finally he gave up the point.
The mare proved to be an inconsidered,
though not inconsiderable, ally, and just then
helped matters amazingly by coming to a
standstill just in front of a little country
meeting-house on the road-side.
" When she decides, it is all right." said
John, with a sigh of relief; and they alighted
without hesitation on finding the door open, to
be married on the spot. They found the min-
ister inside, engaged in patching up a broken
window with an old newspaper, so before
long they wore standing before him, in front
of the great pulpit.
While the parson was going through the
ceremony with great pleasure,- for lie knew
both parties, and was very fond of Bella, John
began to grow absent-ibinded and restless.
le wiped the cold perspiration from his brow;
he looked around with a vacant stare, as if in
great perplexity; he shifted- nervously from
one foot to the other ; and finally turned very
pale, when he was asked if he would " tako
this woman to be," &amp;c., and bellowing a
frantic " No " before the question was finished,
he suddenly turned away, with a distorting
convulsion of his lean body, bolted out of the
church at the top of his speed, and made for
his wagon as if for his life.
A word from Bella kept the minister at his
post, and she went after her escaping fortune,
running faster than he ; but laughing in spite
of herself.
" Go along, get up I" John shouted to the
mare ; but she shook her head, laid one ear
back, and turning her head slowly around,
looked at her master, with a sort of grin, as
one who would. say, "I am acting for your
good, though you don't seem to appreciate it."
John gave it up, and was -sitting in his seat,
a picture of misery, when Bella reached him.
After much parley the truth came out.
"Bella," he confessed, "a Van Strom can
not act against his conscience: and as I stood
before the .parson with you, there came into
my mind, destroying all my happiness, fresh
reasons why a mule is not a horse. After all,
you see-"
She thought of an old remedy, and inter-
rupted his logic with the representation that
in order to redeem her character, he must go

!
,


GOING AND SON.

IF
)       'I
I         E
i

back and say "yes " the next time, and allow
her to refuse him. As John acknowledged
that it was the lady's place to refuse a gentle-
man, he agreed to return ; but he could hardly
believe his ears, when, after he had said "I
will," according to agreement, she also said " I
will. He started back, and looked at her with
mouth and eyes wide open. It was a critical
moment. She smiled upon him such a winning
smile, that he laughed, embraced her heartily,
and went through the rest of-the service like
a lamb.
So, they say, John Jacob Van Strom, Junior,
was married mal grd lui, as the French have
it; and although he was very happy when the
trouble was all over, he little thought that
that was the most sensible action of his whole
life.
With his usual pertinacity, he insisted upon
taking her immediately to the Priory ; she
objected, he proved his authority as her hus-
band. As they went through the Park the
old trees frowned on the intruder, and as they
approached the stately house, which was now
to be her -home, her courage failed her. At
last she realized what she had done, and what
serious results might accrue. She felt that
the crazy doings of a crazy gentleman might
involve a poor tailor's daughter in disgrace and
misery. True, she held her marriage certificate
tightly in her hand ; but she feared lest her
comedy should turn to tragedy, and her farce
change to a curse to both of them. The feverish
energy of her spouse had brought her to, the
door of the house, and she plucked up courage
to enter, resolving to crown her coup with
complete success or know the worst.
And when, before old Mr. Van Strom, the
crazy son told the crazy father the crazy
news, her pride upheld her, by the self-con-
sciousness that she was the only rational
creature of the three.
And old Mr. Van Strom did what some
highly intelligent old gentlemen would not
have been sufficiently intelligent 'to do ; he
gave his consent and blessing, instead of try-
ing to undo what could not be undone, or
making worse what could not be mended,
thereby saving himself a deal of trouble,
expense, vexation, and perhaps ultimate re-
morse, and so making two others very happy
instead of miserable. He embraced his new
daughter-in-law, and John capered about the
room in an ecstasy of delight at his father's
kindness, for he had rather feared the old
gentleman might object. The servants were
called in, and the news announced to them ;
the butler looked blank, and the cook made a
face ; but they all bowed and courtesied to the
new mistress, who looked resolved to stand
her ground, and not quite so credulous as
certain simple-minded folk who had attempted
to rule them heretofore.
"1I think," she soliloquized the next morn-
ing, while dressing in a room which seemed a
palace to her untutored eyes, "I think I see
my duty here pretty plainly. My poor hus-
eand loves me truly, beyond a doubt, and he
will love me always if I choose. To him I
owe this sudden change of fortune, and I will
repay him by watching his interests, and

caring for him who needs it so much. Yes !
he shall find a prop and a comfort in his wife,
so long as I retain my sound sense and hon-
esty of purpose."
And where was Josephine Van Strom?
Her maid informed her of the news, and her
description of John's wife was not sufficiently
flattering to cause lively joy to the widow.
She was at first indignant, then inclined to
weep and lament ; but soon became resigned,
and simply shrugged her beautiful shoulders.
" Here's  news, Mrs. Van Strom," Jane
had cried, rushing in without her usual knock,
for Jane was a well-behaved girl.
" What in the world has happened ?" asked
Josephine, with some alarm, on beholding
Jane's excitement.
"Mr. John has been and gone and done
it 1"
"Done what? Speak sensibly, Jane," said
the widow, expecting to hear of some mnfor-
tunate relapse in John's mental condition.
Had he committed murder, arson, or suicide?
" ie's been down in the village, mum, and
carted off Bell, the darter of Smith, the tail-
or, and's married her right straight off, and
brought her home, and she be down below
now, mum, a-huggin' and a-kissin', and the
divil to pay, savin' your presence, mumn, her
and Mister John and the old gintleman, so
ye'd think they'd all three gone stark mad and
no mistake this time."
Which classic recital had the effect. of
keeping Mrs. Van Strom in her room until the
next morning. " Nobody sends for me," she
sighed to herself. "I am not thought worthy
to receive even a wanton hussy, in this
house."
She determined to leave the house imme-
diately, and gave the necessary orders to
Jane and the coachman, both of whom, and
in fact all the servants, were devoted to her,
although they fooled, cheated, plundered, and
at times even insulted Mr. Van Strom and
John Jacob, Junior.
She dressed herself carefully and very
tastefully before leaving her room, and her
mirror gave her courage as it told her how
charming she was. Her curiosity led her to seek
the nouvelle arrive before taking her leave, so
she entered the drawing-room softly, and, on
discovering a female figure at the other end
of the room, retired, unobserved, into a bow-
window.
"Is this my sister-in-law," she wondered.
"Is this the tailor's daughter turned lady in
two hours? Why she is actually at work.
This at least speaks well for her,  Some
women in her circumstances would at once
play the great lady, but here she is dusting
and arranging the furniture.  And she is
neither awkward nor homely. Her figure is
comely'and her face seems pleasing, though
not handsome.   I know  some ladies who
would give a great deal for that complexion
and those round arms."
At this moment, the butler, whom Bella
had summoned, entered the room without
knoeking at the door, and showing defiance
in his bearing, rather than deference or respect.
"James," said his new mistress. turning

upon him authoritatively, "how long does it fc
take you to answer the bell?"             t
" Well, ma'am, the cook axed me to-."
"I want you to understand, James," said v
Mrs. John Van Strom, "that hereafter, the o
servant who is wanting in respect or atten- l
tion, will be dismissed at once. Do you S
hear ?"                                   t
"I have been in the family, ma'am," com- p
menced the old rascal, whining-
"I don't care how long you have been in f
the family," she interrupted, in the same-
calm, decisive tone, "but I warn you, that,p
although I can appreciate an old servant, and i
will do every thing reasonable to render him
comfortable, he must do his duty, or walk off.Y
Now go, I don't need you here, for I haveJ
done the work myself."
The servant peered keenly into her face for"
a moment, finding there nothing but decision
and calm consciousness of power, so he made 1
his exit quite humbly.I
Josephine, in her corner, opened her eyes
at the dignity of this new matron, and could
but acknowledge that the butler had wellI
deserved all he got, so she silently compli-
mented Bella, and emerged from her hiding
place.
Mrs. John started a little on perceiving her;4
but as her nerves were not yet fashionably
unstrung, the neither shrieked nor trembled
at the sudden apparition, but said, with a mod-
esty of tone, which pleasantly contrasted with
her manner toward James--
" Excuse me, madam, I did not know you
were here; may I ask whom I have the honor
to address ?"
" My name is Josephine Van Strom," an-
swered the widow. " I am the widow of your
husband's brother."
My sister-in-law." was on Bella's tongue
but she shrank back timidly when she saw no
encouragement in Josephine's unmoved'face
and distant manner. After an instant of
hesitation, she again approached and shyly
held out her hand.
Josephine's warm heart smote her because
of her impoliteness, and she took the offered
hand cordially, drew Bella close to her, and
with the words, "Yes, my dear, your sister,
Josephine," kissed her on both cheeks.
As John had accompanied his father on
some errand, the two were left to themselves,
and soon after their first meeting they were
sitting in Josephine's room, Bella on a low
stool at the other's feet, her hands clasped in
her lap, and looking up into Josephine's face
with admiration and tenderness.
" How beautiful you are, sister Josephine,"
said the tailor's daughter, artlessly, and how
strange it is that the gentlemen have not made
you a pet, a dear mistress, a-sort of goddess.
I can hardly believe it, though you have just
told me so."
" And yet it is so, my dear," she answered,
with a sad smile, " and for that reason, I am
determined to leave the house to-day."
"No! nol no!"
" I must! Although I feel that I could love
you dearly and tenderly, my pride has been
too deeply wounded in this house to remain

20

or your sake alone, for I have pride, Bella,
hough it may be wrong."
" It is not wrong in you, it would be very,
'ery wrong in me ! Do you know that I ani half
ut of my mind? Such a change! A care-
ess, poor girl yesterday, and to-day, Mrs. Van
Strom. Why, we children were brought up
o regard this house as a fairy castle, a royal
palace, every thing that was grand and beyond
ur sphere. Can't you imagine, then, that I
eel like a thief, like a bold and shameess
woman to have usurped this place because my
poor husband was sufficiently imbecile to take
me?"
"You have accomplished the most re-
markable feat that I ever heard of," replied
Josephine, smiling " but I can not say that
what you have done is bad or contemptible.
You have fallen in with what some might call
miraculous good fortune ; but be warned in
time against the harshness and unmerciful
prejudice you will meet in this new world,
which now seems to you all sunshine. This
fne society will cost you many a tear-this
high station, many a heart-ache; but trust in
God and preserve your self-respect. All will be
right, and John may thank heaven for his wife."
She kissed her forehead and took her hands
caressingly. Bella laid her head on the wid-
ow's lap and sobbed bitterly.
" Why do you cry, dear ?" asked Josephinc.
"I did not mean to frighten you, much less to
wound you. Look up and take courage. I
repeat that I think John has made a better
bargain than you have."
"I will be cheerful, and happy, and strong,
and any thing else you wish, if you will do me
a favor."
" And that is-"
"Will you promise ?"
" I will not deny you, if I can help it,"
" Remain here. If not for years, stay for
months, or, at any rate, do not speak of leaving
at present."
" Ask any thing but this, dear Bella."
"Just try us for a little while. Iam mis-
tress of this house, and my husband and
father-in-law shall act like sensible people, I
promise you. You are in a strange position;
your rights are disregarded; your name, your
husband's name is dishonored by the treat-
ment you receive; but if you, beautiful and
accomplished as you are, can condescend to
let poor me manage affairs-if you will be my
ally as I shall be yours-we shall be able to
maintain our position together against the
whims of our relatives, against the attacks of
that society you spoke of, and against all other
obstacles. You are no stranger, no guest, no
mendicant in this house. It belongs to you as
much as to my husband, and I repeat that you
forget the name which you bear, if you do not
assert yourself. On the other hand, what
comfort, what help can I find, but in you ? If
you are sincere in what you say, you must
feel willing to stand by me and to advise me.
If I can not coax you, I must appeal to your
heart. Can you really pity me or love me,
and yet leave me so?
IIt was a hard struggle; but Della's common
sense and tact won the day. Josephine had

FANTASY.

27

r ,
c
E.
!


28 .

GOING AND SON.

.I

i1
Ir
Pd,

FANTASY.

never before viewed her position at the Prior
in the light presented by the tailor's daughter
A gentle, loving, passionate, tender- woman
she was born to be cared for by others, an
when neglected would retreat timidly, uncom
plainingly like a wounded bird to its nest
there to mourn and helplessly die. She hat
never even thought of asserting herself, a
Bella now called upon her to do, and it wa
only because the latter's straightforward en
ergy gave her hope and strength, that sh(
finally consented.
"And if the place is sold, Bella ?" she asked
after the question was settled.
"You shall still remain with us wherever
we go," cried Bella. " The fact is, I shal
make John's father sell the place. It is too
large."
"You seem to have great confidence in your
powers over Mr. Van Strom."
"Yes, I have, though I don't know why,
exactly. You will see that the place will 1,o
sold before the week is out, provided Mr.
Going sticks to his bargain."
"You know    about that already," said
Josephine, much astonished. " You surprise
me !
"I am a business woman, dear," answered
Bella, laughing, "and, I think, much more
competent than two certain gentlemen we
know of."
At this moment John and his father came
in sight, driving toward the house.
"Bella," asked Josephine, softly stroking
her new sister's hair, "Bellal tell me one thing,
we are both women, you know: Do you love
your husband?"
"So help me God, I love him dutifully as a
wife should," answered the wife, solemnly.
"Then all will be well."
CHAPTER VII.
HOBGOBLIN.
Kxor alENRY "Ynu have good leave to leave us:
when we need
Your use and counsel, we shall send for oi,,"
KING HENRY IV
SEVERAL weeks elapsed before Mr. Van
Strom could bring himself to announce to Mr.
Going that he had determined to' sell the
Priory. Walter fretted mightily at the delay,
and favored a second visit to the old man, to
compel him to sell at once ; but his father felt
grave about buying such a costly place, giv-
ing a mortgage on it, and sustaining the in-
evitably heavy expenditures of so large an
establishment. Report called him  an im-
mensely wealthy man, and his credit was un-
impeachable; but what his property would
amount to, if his business were suddenly
closed, must remain as dubious to us, for
awhile, as it was to his friends and enemies in
the commercial world of New York.
"If the Priory comes into my hands with-
out any further exertion on my part, w eli and
good," he said to Walter ; " if not, we will let

29

y it go, and I confess, I shall not feel any the
r. less secure, for not owning a princely estate,
, with a princely mortgage on it."
d    In the meanwhile our hero was working
- hard and gaining golden opinions. Already
, he had proved that his business capacity was
d of no common order, and it had been noticed
s and even mentioned to Mr. Going by outside
s parties. The old gentleman was pleased by
- the discovery, and liked to hear eulogies of
e his new clerk. "I must say that it is very
gratifying to see a young man winning his
, way without help," he said to Walter one
day.
r " Which is not my case," replied the young
I man, lazily.
" I fear that I made a mistake in smoothing
your road too much, Walter," said his father,
gravely. " You have never known .care, and
your energies have never been called upon by
harsh necessity. Let us hope that you will
not have to face troubles in your maturer life,
which will require the energy and elasticity
only to be gained by youthful struggles."
Walter made   no reply, but echoed his
father's wish, in his inmost heart, and listened
dutifully and attentively to his words, uttered
more seriously than usual. The firm had lost
money heavily and steadily for several months
past.
Mr. Montant made his appearance in the
private oflice.
" Mr. Going," he said, " a certain Mr. Stil-
letto and a - friend of his, by the name of~
Muller, are without and desire an interview
with you. I understand their object is to
propose to ~you an undertaking, a sort of
scheme, the value of which it is not my place
to determine. -But I desire to explain to you
that I came across the ocean in company with
Mr. Stilletto, and he may possibly refer you
to me. Should he do so, believe me it is en-
tirely unwarranted, for I know but little about
him, and besides I think I understand my
position here, as your clerk, too well to use it
for the introduction of strangers to my em-
ployers."
" Very good, Mr. Montant," said Mr. Going.
"You are quite right to notify me of this, to
prevent any misunderstanding. But as I have
leisure for half an hour, I will receive them.
I like to hear of new enterprises."
" This one," said Montant, lightly, as he
was passing out, " has been explained to me
before, with the proposition that I should
bring it before your notice!t I would not
have done so in this case, even had it been
within my province!"
" It seems to me, father," suggested Walter,
when they were again alone, "as if Ernest
gave you a bit of advice there, in a delicate
and inoffensive manner. It will be quite in-
teresting to see what sort of a speculation it
is that our noble German friend will not re-
commend."
The door opened, and two creatures entered
whose low bows suggested at once a great
lack of good-breeding or of self-respect.
normal  position  and  the  th a es   heame
visible Walter was forced t tur ir beck to

conceal his merriment. Muller's eyes were
blinking in an extraordinary manner. He had
fortified himself by an extra dose of invig-
orating beverages  before  venturing  upon
the errand. He told Stilletto that he was1
not abashed in the presence of kings, and
much less would he feel embarrassed when
business called him to the office of a merchants
prince.
I have before this visited merchant princes.
What are they, these merchant princes ? They
have money, very much money; but not
enough to buy for themselves a friendship in
August Muller's soul. And shall , who stands
far above them in education ; I, who am their
superior in every point or phase of intellect,
shall I cringe before - them?  Or shall I step
up boldly and let them read in my face that I
am more than their equal? Let them only
hear me speak," cried he, "and if they are
not amazed at the force of my intellect, my
name is not Muller. I have more brains than
these people, and they will see it; they will re-
cognize it; they will, one day, point at me as
I pass in the street and say, there goes Au-
gust Muller, who knows more than we all put
together."
" Stop your gas," said Stilletto, nervously.
"Your pompous nonsense will turn to meek-
ness unexampled before we are ten minutes
older. You will, see that money is a king
before whom intelligence and education are
very slaves."
Stilletto was right, for Muller now presented
an incarnation of meekness and timidity. He
tried to smile pleasantly; but only succeeded in
grinning deferentially, while his long lean body
was bent in fawning suppliance, and his face
grew redder than potations could have made
it. Stilletto, however, seemed any thing but
abashed. Indeed, that gentleman's self-assur-
ance was little less than miraculous.  He
drew up his little figure complacently , and
took a deliberate survey of the premises with
a critical eye, as though he were upon the
point of making an offer for the whole, Walter
Going included.
"Your name is Stilletto ?" said Walter,
addressing the owner of this critical eye.
"Yes, sir," was the dry response ; and then
the little man, seeing no sign of being invited
to sit down, deliberately selected a chair,
placed it to suit himself, and sat down.
"Cool," muttered Walter Going.
"Take a seat, Mr. Muller," said Mr. Going,
courteously. The great philosopher colored
redder than- ever, stammered out that he
would prefer to stand, and immediately con-
tradicted the assertion by staggering back-
ward and forward in search of a chair, drop-
ping his hat, knocking his head against the
desk in picking it up, and, finally, by the
interposition of an ever-watchful providence,
ran aground on the sofa, one corner of which
tripped him as he was backing away from the
desk, and he came to an unexpected seat with
a violence which cost the sofa a leg. Here-
upon the philosopher was taken with a second
nervous attack, and had to be pacified with
great energy, on the part of Mr. Going, while
Walter laughed outright, and Stilletto looked

daggers of vexation and contempt at his
miserable companion.
" My friend, sir," said Stilletto, with a sneer,
"is a philosopher. He is grand in solitude;
but, as you see, rather awkward in the
world."
"I think more of a man who is too timid,
than of one who is too bold," said Walter,
carelessly. "I think it makes a better im-
pression."
" You are right, sir," said Mr. Muller, stim-
ulated into self-possession by his friend's
rebuke. " True intelligence scorns the appro-
bation of finery and accomplished manner.
True intelligence has been my watchword in
life, and I mean to stand upon that platform
only."
'' To business, gentlemen," suggested Mr.
Going.
" Commence, my friend," said Mr. Muller,
mildly.
" Don't make a fool of yourself, if you can
help it," Stilletto whispered. "Be a- man,
and speak out. Is this your boasted cour-
age?"
" Well, then," commenced Mr. Muller, taking
an imaginary pipe fremui his lips,-somehow
the movement gave hiiii confidence,-" Gentle-
men, I stand before a great house ! A noble,
an affluent house, a mighty firm, based upon
high  respectability, guided  by  wisdom,
prompted in all its dealings by the mighty
intellect of its members, inspired by the prin-
ciples of integrity and honor, and influenced
by that high ambition which sees in the accu-
mulation of wealth but the means of accom-
plishing worthier objects. To your desire-of
assisting enterprise ; to your ambition to be
pillars of the temple of intelligence which this
century is proudly erecting; to your appre-
ciation of new and advanced ideas, and to your
heartfelt wish for the promotion of the welfare
of your fellow-men, do I appeal (though I
shall also.point out to you an almost princely
remuneration), for the assistance which I,
August Muller, have come to ask."
The great man looked around for approba-
tion.  Mr. Going was leaning back in his
chair, looking blandly before him, and balanc-
ing his paper-knife, with one hand resting on
the desk. Walter yawned once or twice, and
said, "Nearly time to go on 'change, father."
Stilletto was shifting nervously on his chair
and frowning disapproval at the philosopher's
prolixity.
" If I understand my friend correctly," he
interposed, immediately, "he thinks our under-
taking sure to yield an immense fortune to
those who will have spunk enough to go into
it. I would suggest, Muller, that these gen-
tlemen's time is valuable, and that you may
get them to listen to plain statements, but not
to half-witted harrangues, such as you have
just given them."
"Quite right, my noble, foreign friend,"
said Walter, approvingly, " I suggest that yon
take the floor; for if your clever friend does
the talking, we shall not soon come to the'
end. That end, I confess, I look forward to,
with enthusiasm."
Walter's suggestion was favorably received,

It,


FANTASY.                         31

30                   GOING AND SON.

and Mr. Stilletto told the wondrous tale. So
much of it as belongs to this narrative has
been explained in a previous chapter.
Between Stilletto's concise and very credi-
ble statements, and Mr. Muller's eloquent and
enthusiastic interruptions, corrections, and
enlargements on the subject, considerable
time was consumed. From the beginning of
the interview, the firm determined to have
nothing to do with such a seedy-looking man
as the philosopher, or such an unmistakable
sharper as Antonio Stilletto. Yet a fortune
seemed within the grasp of any man of means
and enterprise, and, for a moment, Mr. Going
felt strongly tempted to say, "Yes, we will go
in I" But the twinkling eyes and red nose of
the philosopher, his sycophantic smile and
forlorn tout ensemble, and the uncomfortable
shrewdness which characterized Mr. Stilletto,
restrained father and son. When the matter
had been fully disclosed in all its fascinating,
though, perhaps, delusive details, Mr. Going
said :-
"Well, gentlemen, this certainly sounds
very well, but my business-life has taught me
caution. I hardly know you, and know noth-
ing at all of your personal standing."
"As for me, sir," said Stilletto, "I would
beg to refer to my friend and traveling com-
panion, Mr. Ernest Montant.
"We will waive that subject," said the old
gentleman, with a smile at this fulfillment of
Montant's suspicion; "for it is my duty to
positively refuse your proffer. The undertak-
ing is entirely out of our lime of business, and
we do not choose to change. We have given
you a patient hearing, because you desired it,
but I believe that it was thoroughly under-
stood at the beginning, that we did not hold
out the slightest encouragement to warrant
tie trouble you have taken."
The philosopher's face fell, and it wvas witlh
difficulty that his friend suppressed his vexation.
"In that case," said Mr. Muller, rising,
"there is nothing to detain us any longer.
Good morning, gentlemen, and pardon me for
saying, as I take mny leave, that I am disap-
pointed, even dismayed at my failure to touch
a responsive chord in your hearts, which I
imagined would throb in unison with my views
and ambitions. You will hear again of August
Muller."
" God forbid," interrupted Walter, face-
tiously.
"He is not a man to be utterly disheartened
by the failure of his maiden effort. I have
laid before you a grand undertaking. I had
chosen you as my stepping-stone to the exalt-
ed position which I am certain, yes, gentlemen,
certain to occupy. You should feel flattered,
complimented, and proud of August Muller's
choice, for his choice is not that of an ordinary
man ! You have discarded hin, you close
your ears and purse against him, look you that
the time may not come when you shall envy
him."
" Fiddlesticks," said Stilletto, angrily, "I
must apologize for my friend here, for I verily
believe that if he had stayed at home, we
would now have been in a very different situ-
ation."

"Stilletto," quoth the other, turning grand-
ly toward him, " your remarks can not offend
me. Your meaning is too contemptible, and
your expressions are too coarse for me to
notice."
Stiletto took his hat and walked to the
door, rudely pushing Muller out of his way.
With his hand on the knob, he looked impu-
dently at old Mr. Going, who had taken up the
newspaper, and at Walter, who did not at-
tempt to conceal his merriment, and said,
" Good morning."
He was gone; but that last look of his re-
mained. That devilish, mocking " Good morn-
ing " rang in their ears some time, though
neither Mr. Going nor his son were easilyin-
timidated, the presence of Stilletto seemed
to have infected the very air of the room, and
recurrently wrought the  impression  that
something repulsive had crossed their path
and brushed closely enough by them to leave
its mark. After Stilletto's sudden exit, the
philosopher quickly wilted ; his self-assertion
completely left him. Hardly could he re-
member that his hat was still in his hand.
The blood rushed to his face as he turned to
wish a good day to the gentlemen, and met
Walter's laughing gaze, and muttering an un-
intelligible something, he rushed out of the.
room, stumbling over the threshold of the
door and nearly demolishing a clerk who hap-
pened to be near.
Our hero was to dine at the house in Fifth
Avenue that night, and when business was
over he walked up town with Walter Going.
"You have all the particulars of this Hob-
goblin Mining and Manufacturing Company,
you said ?" asked the latter.
-' Yes," replied the other, curtly.
"What do you think of it ?"
I would prefer to keep my opinion to my-
self, if you will allow me."
" May I ask why, sir?"
" Because I am your youngest clerk, and I
think it would be out of place for me to dis-
cuss matters which can only be settled by the
firm."
" This is some of your imported German
cant," said Walter, impatiently.  " Perhaps,
in your superior wisdom, you would conde-
scend to benefit me with your ideas, if I
were to inform you beforehand, that father
and I gave the seedy gentlemen the grand
shake, untanimnously."
"In that case," replied ourhero, calmly, "I
have no objection to allow that I think you
have done very rightly." L
The conversation then turned on other mat-
ters until they had reached the house, and,
after preparing themselves for dinner in Wal-
ter's room, descended to the parlor.
" Jessie is in there," said Walter. "You
have my permission to go in and say good
evening, while I make a desperate attempt to
infuse some system into the waiter's bead.
By Jove, he is such a dunce, this sweet son
of Erin, that, were it not for me, I think he
would bring us our claret in champagne cool-
ers and put the champagne on the kitchen
range to give it the proper temperature."
So our friend entered the drawing-room

alone. It was a dark and stately room, with
bronzes and statuary, rich carpets and costly
mrrnzes fine pictures and fancy ornaments,
carved furniture and massive chandeliers. The
blinds were closed to exclude the plebeian
light of day from all this luxury, so he could
scarcely recognize Jessie Going, until she had
approached him, extending her little hand
graciously.
She was taller than Josephine Van Strom,
and comparatively slender.  Her figure was
not less graceful and elegant, while her face,
set off by luxurious  black  hair, seemed
molded into the most refined and delicate
lines of beauty. She was then but in her
eighteenth year, and was naturally very lively,
lacking entirely that passionate earnestness
which was the most dangerous charm    of
Josephine Van Strom. Jessie Going was
called a coquette by some; but she was en-
tirely too good-hearted to go far in that line.
A great belle in society, she was still a great
home-body, and was entirely wrapped up in
her love for her father.
When he first heard the rustle of her heavy
blue dress, knowing that she was in the room,
lie felt half bewitched, spell-bound, and obli-
vious of all the rest of the world. No matter
what doubts and inconsistencies controlled or
agitated him when away from her, when in
her presence he was her captive.
He took her hand and looked at her with
wonder and admiration. In those black eyes
and arched brows, in that delicate nose and
those charming lips there was no hint of
Josephine, and Josephine is forgotte  ' the
presence of this supernaturally hands
brunette.
"I am very glad to see you," she said, in a
charmingly musical voice, "for I expect some
gentlemen to dinner whom I want you to
know."
"Are they fashionable young men ?"
"Quite so.  One has a gallant mustache
and eagle-eyes, and his name is Faro. The
other is small, but graceful; dances superbly,
and his name is Willy Wheeler. You will
have a chance to judge of our New York
lions."
" I am not very anxious to meet the lions,
neither do I feel in the least inclined to shun
their acquaintance," said he, dryly.
"Mr. Faro is very conceited," said Miss
Jessie, " but I don't object to that. I like a
man to be somewhat conceited."
'-Do I suit you in this respect," he asked,
smiling.
"Yes, you are certainly conceited, but you
are not flat and stupid, like some I know, and
therefore your conceit meets with my appro-
bation, which I herewith bestow upon you.
But I wish to have a few moments of serious
conversation with you," she added, changing
her tone and manner; " How is papa's busi-
ness going on?"
"How little you must know of business to
select me, a junior clerk for your informant.
Walter will tell you; for, indeed, I have but a
small chance to find out. To be honest, even
if h ad--",
"You would not tell me ? That is the old

story. None of you consider me competent to
receive even a few hints about papa's business.
And yet, Mr. Montant, I do not consider this
fair, not even wise. I know that I am very
young, and utterly incapable of understanding.
some, things in detail; but, I think, that if pa-
pa and Walter had consulted me upon certain
important questions, which I only heard of
when it was too late, they would have been
better off to-day."
I quite agree with you, Miss Jessie," said
our hero, gravely. "I think that a husband,
for example, should always inform and consult
his wife upon very important questions of
business. I believe that a woman's intuition,
i many cases, is capable of great, almost
N onderful accuracy and soundness of judg-
ment."
"I am glad to .hear you say that, and I am
sure it will make your wife very happy to be
treated a little better than a doll 1" she cried,
artlessly. " Yet you will not tell me how papa
is prospering; and yet, what do I really desire
to know? Whether cotton, or oil, or coal, or
hides, or any other nasty thing, is up or down,
may be of little moment to me when I am con-
vinced, and convinced I am, that the firm has
lost mmey heavily of late. I see it in my
father's fahe, when he wants to appear merri-
er than ever. I see it in Walter's restless,
irritable mood. I feel it," she said, shaking
her little head, "and when a woman feels the
truth of any thing, no assertion, reasoning, or
argument, can convince her to the contrary."
" I do not for a moment imagine that any
thing has happened to give your father seri-
ous apprehensions. Your name is a good one,
Miss'Goingandso long as it remains intact, there
may be fortunes lost under its protecting wing,
and fortunes regained by its unbroken strength,
without the outer world being much the wiser.
I am inclined to think that your father is
merely a little troubled about the propriety,
at this moment, of buying the 'Priory.' It
is a great extravagance, and if you wish to
exercise your foresight-you understand me ?
"Yes, and I heartily thank you for the
suggestion. The Priory shall not be bought
if I can help it! How are you getting along
in the office?"
" I am trying hard to rise, and make myself
more useful than I can in my present inferior
position."
" Walter has told me much about you, which
I will not repeat, because it would be a breach
of confidence, and besides it might increase
your self-conceit beyond the limits which I
consider suitable to your character. You have
enough already."
Ernest laughed. "You are taking quite a
motherly interest in me," he said. "I feel
flattered by the attention with which you have
investigated my character."
" Seriously speaking, I think that you will
be placed in a much more responsible position
before long, and here is the point of my re-
mark. I want you to make me a promise.
It seems odd to you, I know, for me to ask
such a thing; but I have learned to look at
you with Walter's eyes; will you make me
this promise ?"


32                              GOING A4
Our hero looked at her face, all glowing
with fixedness of purpose, and felt that he
could refuse her nothing; "even a promise
of marriage," he thought to himself.
"Let us sit in this corner," said Miss Jessie,
with importance. " I do not want any one
to listen, and leading the way to a sofa in the
farthest corner of the room, she continued,
with more earnestness in her tone and
manner than before."
" Mr. Montant, from various sources I have
gathered the knowledge that you have won
the good opinion of all your mercantile ac-
quaintances. They are unanimous in the an-
nouncernent of your reliability.  Now Mr.
Montant, you know that we are a very extrav-
agant family. I know what we spend every
year, and it worries me. I have thought the
matter all over, and this is my conclusion,
plain though startling. That no success in
legitimate business can support such extrava-
gance, and it must cease or-" she paused an
instant.
Ernest did not say a word.
" Your silence tells me that I am right,"
continued the young girl; "and now comes
the promise. If real danger should come,-
if ever you should see that the threatening
storm must wreck us, and that ruin and dis-
honor stare my poor father in the face, will
you then, at such an hour, remember that we
were your first, your best friends in a strange
country ? - Will you stand by us if the world
turn its back? Will you devote yourself to
my father, save him if possible, sink with him
if necessary, even at the cost of refusing the
splendid offers that may be made to you to
leave him?"        .
She ceased, breathless. Long concealed ex-
citement, suddenly burst forth, seemed to have
changed her very nature.
" One word," said he, scarcely able to sup-
press his emotion at the spectacle of this
beautiful creature pleading so eloquently for
her father. " Why do you ask this?  What
has put such fancies into your head ?"
" Intuition, foreboding, call it what you
please! Will you promise ?" ie thought a
moment, and then said, deliberately,-
S I promise."
"Thank you, thank you!" she said, holding
out both hands to him. "I shall never forget
it"
" And I," he replied, looking into the depths
of her dark eyes, and holding her soft, warm
hands in his, "I shall never forget-my pro-
mise."
" Dinner is ready," said Walter, entering,
and to dinner they went, where Miss Jessie
flirted so outrageously with Mr. Faro and
Wheeler, and so completely ignored our hero,
that on his way home that night he muttered
angrily,-
I must be mistaken in her ! She is a
heartless coquette, and no woman for Ernest
Montant to love! But that promise I shall
keep however it turns out."

ND SON.

CHAPTER VIII,
MASQUERADE.
"Now, this overdone, or come tardy off, though it
make the unskillful laugh, can not but make the judi-
cious grieve."--HAMrET.
Two months or so passed by and Mr. Going
did not receive any message from Mr. Van
Strom, with reference to the sale of the Priory.
He had dismissed the subject from his mind,
and was heartily glad that the temptation to
commit so great an act of extravagance had
passed. His daughter, by well chosen hints,
and the general tone of conversation had
helped his second thoughts on the matter; and
Walter, even, moved by the eloquence of his
sweet sister, had ceased to mention the subject,
when, one day their father came home look-
ing troubled and yet amused at something
which had occurred. He handed his daughter
a note which he had just received, and she
read with a mixture of vexation and merri-
ment, as follows:-
MR. GoING-DEAR SIR:-
I have concluded to cede you my country
place, known as the Priory, with two hun-
dred acres of land, comprised in what is known
as the Priory Islands, for the sum of two
hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars, to
wit; five thousand cash, upon signing the con-
tract, the balance of one-third of the whole
upon my signing the deed, in cash, and two-
thirds to remain on bond and mortgage. My
lawyer, Mr. Rivulette has put himself in coin-
munication with your attorneys. Messrs. Grave
&amp; Paradise, so that the title will be searched
at once. I shall call at your office this week
to sign the preliminary contract, and I propose
to give you possession in one week from this
date.
I take pleasure in announcing to you the
marriage of my son John to Miss Bella Smith,
the daughter of Nehemiah Smith, manufacturer
of gentleman's outer garments, in the village
of New Rocket. The young and happy couple
desire to say farewell to the Priory, in a man-
ner suited to the position my family have al-
ways occupied, and you, your son, and Miss
Going, are hereby cordially invited to assist
at the last festivity at the old place. Your
company is respectfully requested, at eight
o'clock, punctually, on Thursday evening next,
in fancy dress.
Yours, respectfully,
JoN' JAcon VAN STRoM.
P.S.-I will be dressed as Napoleon the
First; will you allow me to suggest that you
should assume the costume of old Blucher.
I think, as you are driving me from house and
home, this would be appropriate. Or Welling-
ton would do as well. Miss Going might then
appear as the Goddess of War.
"I can not see my way clear to refuse." said
Mr. Going, much perplexed.
" What do you mean ?" cried Miss Jessie,
horrified. "You are never going as Blucher
or Wellington, I hope?"
"Not quite,"' answered her father, smiling;

FANTASY.

"but I suppose I must buy the place, and I
think we had better go to the party, provided
David Worth will allow us to stay at his villa
after the ball."
"But, surely, you don't think any of us had
better go in fancy dress ?"
"No; we must arrange about that."
"It would be impolite not to comply with
the wishes of our host," suggested the young
lady.
"I think we had better let Mr. Montant
arrange it for us," said her father. "I shall
have to send him up at all events, for, although
I mean to adhere to my agreement about the
place, yet I can not pay him the money until a
couple of weeks from to-day. I have no doubt
that this will suit him as well."
"I hope lie will refuse, the condition,"
thought Miss Jessie; but she was not one of
those who talk when the time for words has
passed, and so the conversation dropped.
The next day our hero went to the Priory,
where Josephine had watched and waited in
the true sense of the term. They had corre-
sponded; yes, they were so foolish and impru-
dent as to correspond; and when they now
met they felt as though they had known each
other for years. They had another long walk
to the shore of the Sound; more conversations
on serious and solemn subjects took place, and
IMiss Jessie Going, by her preference of the
gallant Mr.-Faro, and charming Willy Wheeler;
had accomplished what, perhaps, she did not
wish to accomplish, the alienation of our hero,
and the opening of the door for a rival to step
into his affections.
Mr. Van Strom accepted the propositions
made to him; gracefully excused the Goings
from wearing francy dresses, and extended a
pressing invitation to our hero, which he ac
eepted with pleasure, and Mr. David Worth,
on receiving Mr. Going's note, professed him-
self delighted at the prospect of entertaining
the whole party after the ball. So every thing
was satisfactorily arranged, and on the ap-
pointed Thursday Mr. Going, with his son and
daughter, and Ernest Montant, made their
appearance at Mr. Worth's villa. After a jolly
reception, and-a good dinner, they dressed (but
not in fiancy costume) for the ball, and finally
arrived at the Priory at a quarter past eight.
*    *    *    *    *    *    *
The Priory did not present a very festive
appearance. The moon was at the full, and
perhaps earthly illuminations grew dim in her
bright rays; but the windows, certainly, did
not seem lighted up brilliantly, the glare from
the hall did not dazzle the eye when the door
was opened, nor was the ear saluted with
heavenly strains of music as one entered the
grounds. Perhaps they were drowned by the
low moaning of the wind, which was sighing
in the trees. It had a desolate tone, as though
portentous of a change in the weather, or
other mischief; and, hark!1 there is a strange,
unearthly note, sounding near, sounding far
ol, changing, swelling, dying away-distinct,
yet ghostly. The old bell, hanging upon that
old em, is slowly tolling! They heard it as
they appi-oached, but comment was stopped,
fr now they stood in the great hall.
3

33

One long chandelier, apparently suspended
from the clouds, distributed a doubtful luster
on the assemblage of Van Strom portraiture, in
their moldy frames. In the flickering, smoky
light, they seemed frowning upon the un-
accustomed revelry below. In the *orners
and niches of the vaulted ceiling there reigned
a confusion of darkness, suggestive of spiders
and cobwebs. In one corner of the room a
little platform could be dimly descried, on
which were perched four American citizens of
African descent, fiddling away with such
rapidity, and such utter disregard for harmony,
that it was really astonishing that the platform
could stand up under it. They were shaking
their woolly heads as they sawed away, and
stamping their feet, rolling their eyes, and
showing their teeth, while their shrill voices
rang out like the shrieks of agonized demons,
as they called the figures of the dance.
"lForwart two! Jeinmens to do ri-i-i-ght!
All jassay acrosst."
Near the door stood the master of the house,
in the dress of the exile of Elba, if the con-
queror of empires got his clothing when young,
and wore the same suit until he grew stout,
the appearance of Mr. Van Strom was his-
torically correct, except that he added to the
"little corporal's" taste by mounting a great
powdered wig.
John was already dancing at the head of a
quadrille. Like his father, lie, too, wore a
white horse-hair wig, and the miraculous lean-
ness of his body was displayed to advantage
by a tight-fitting green jacket, which disdained
to keep company with the knee-breeches,
which encumbered his lower limbs. His mis-
erable calves were stuffed out to an impossible
size; but the plated buckles on his square-
toed shoes were his pride and delight. He
could not refrain from stealing an occasional
glance of admiration at them whenever the
dance allowed him an opportunity. He ideal-
ized the plain steps which we ordinary mortals
take in a plain quadrille, into such swings, and
twists, and hops. and shuffles, that lie bore an
extraordinary resemblance to a deranged frog,
or an inspired monkey.   His grins would
rather incline one to place him among the lat-
ter, were it not for an ornament which lie
wore proudly, and which was a source of
anxiety to those who knew him best. This
was a real old-fashioned broad-sword he had
discovered among the family relics, probably
handed down by a certain warlike grandsire,
whose portrait hung in a conspicuous place in
the gallery overhead, and frowned grimly
down on his audacious descendant. Ile was
dancing with his wife. Bella had insisted
upon appearing in ordinary costume, and, after
a long struggle, carried her point. She ap-
peared unabashed, but nervous and pre-oc-
cupied. .
"Who is that humpback, dancing opposite
Mr. and Mrs. Van Strom ?" asked Montant,
as they watched that curious assembly, with
wonder.
" That is Mr. Paradise, of the firm of Grave
&amp; Paradise, our lawyers," answered Walter
Going.
" He is joining in with everybody, odd and

,,
1


8-j                  GOING AND SON.F

absurd as ever," criticized Miss Jessie. Look
at him, laughing and capering about, like a
deformed goblin. He seems to have left all~
pride and dignity in his office, as usual."
" And yet he is one of the most clear-headed
men Ieknow," said old Mr. Going.
" His hunchback has demoralized and im-
bittered him to such an extent that he discards
dignity, and sometimes even decency, to save
himself from entire apathy and utter despair."
" He may certainly thank his deformity for
protecting him." said Miss Jessie. "If it were
not for pity's sake, he would have received
many a sound beating for his insulting way
to ladies."
" He would just as lief go into a lady's bed-
room as not, without even knocking at the
door," said Walter, " and his conversation is
so gross that it exceeds all limit."
"And his sarcasm is as bad," added his
sister.  " He puts in a disagreeable speech
whenever he can, and the only way to meet
him. or gain immunity from him, is to pay him
back in his own coin. I have done so without
scruple, and, I assure you, he likes me for it."
Mr. Paradise was dancing with a spinster,
who represented Night by the addition to her
costume of a bunch of feathers on one shoulder,
which might have belonged to a pre-Adamite
owl, and a circle of little rents in her dress,
through which shone her white petticoat like
stars.
Bella's father appeared as Hamlet, in his
most despondent mood.
He seemed ready, to be or not to be, any
thing that might be desired by the company
or by the enthusiastic black fiddlers, if he could
only understand what would be required of him
next.
To our hero's great surprise, he soon dis-
covered Antonio Stilletto among the dancers.
and he was footing it as confidently as though
the costume of a Prince of Wales in the good
old days, which he wore jauntily, indicated his
real social status. How he could have ob-
tained an invitation to the ball was the ques-
tion. He had expressed his great desire to be
introduced into good society several times, and
our hero felt sure that some hidden history at.
tacked to his presence.
" Who is that lady dancing with the little
Prince of Wales," he inquired.
' That is Mrs. Fatman," Miss Jessie answer-
ed. "They call her handsome: but I can not
see the beauty. She was a buxom, red-faced
girl, and the daughter of a baker before she
was married. Now, just look at her-thin, and
unhealthy, all dress and show, and very little
foundation on which to build, I should imag.
ine."
"Birds of a feather flock together," thought
he. "If the lady is a parvenue, I am not sur-
prised at seeingher with my worthy friend."
"Fatman must be here," said Mr. Going,
looking around upon the crowd that by this
time had nearly tilled the hall. Yes, and a
goodly crowd of people it was. The best, the
proudest families were there, for Van Strom
was a fine old name, and those who did not
respect the present generation, had come to
pay their tribute to the generations which had

lived and died in the noble old Priory, and had
not been forgotten.
" Here I am," said Mr. Fatman, stepping up.
After he had greeted the party, he added
" Everybody seems to know already that this
place is virtually yours. I can not help envy.
ing you. for your future neighbors are de-
lighted, and anxious to welcome you, with the
exception of a few old cronies who prefer the
society of cobwebs upon the walls, and cob-
webs in certain brains we know of, hey! to life,
and youth, and beauty."- Upon which he made
a profound bow to Jessie.
Our hero soon found his way to the side of
Josephine.
"Do you believe in forbodings ?" asked the
widow, clinging tightly to his arm as they
walked apart from  the crowd in a compara.
tively deserted part of the hall.
' Why do you ask the question, Mrs. Van
Strom ?"
"Because, in my heart, I am certain that
something is going to happen to-night. It may
be a foolish fancy; but it agrees with another
circumstance of no cheerful nature."
" And what may that be," said, he carelessly;
for our hero was proof against superstition.
" The bell rang last night," she replied, not
much reassured. "I heard it in my room."
"It was the wind. Have you heard it to-
night."
"No, let us step on the back piazza and
listen."
So they walked out through the door into
the night and listened.  The wind had in-
creased somewhat; but it was warm as in
midsummer. For several minutes they hardly
breathed, straining their ears to the utmost,
when-there was no mistake here-the sound
of the bell came to them as distinctly as reality
personified. First low and scarcely audible,
then with a clear but doleful peal, slowly re-
turning, with terrible regularity. The fatal
bell was tolling.
" Let us go in," gasped Josephine, in genii-
ine alarm.
"I am going to see who is ringing that
bell," said her companion, resolutely.
" Pray don't--not now. There might be
danger," she urged, clinging closer to him.
"Danger or not, I will solve this mystery if
possible. I will be back in a moment."
"Stay. For my sake stay," she pleaded,
imploringly, with a tone of voice which caused
him to look for a moment into her eyes as if
he would search her inmost soul for an expla-
nation.
"I can not, for I owe it to my manhood
not to be frightened at such a scarecrow as
this."
There was no chance for further resistance
to his determination, so she said quickly,-
"I will go with you."
"I advise you to stay where you are," he
answered, shrugging his shoulders. "If you
do not follow my advice, I have at all events
done my duty in warning you."
Instead of an answer, she sprang down the
steps after him, and they two silently and
cautiously approached the old elm on which
the bell was suspended. At every step they

expected to hear another peal, and even our
hero's heart beat faster than usual, while Jo-
sephine trembled like an aspen leaf till she
could hardly sustain herself. The night was
almost as light as day, so bright were the
moonbeams.
In a few minutes they saw the bell plainly
and distinctly.  It was perfectly quiet. Not a
sound, not a vibration, not a trace of motion
could be recognized. Around was silence and
solitude, and it hung there like a dead thing.
They returned to the piazza, laughing at their
temporary agitation, when  suddenly there
came another peal, a loud, angry note, which
seemed to vibrate through their frames like a
shock of electricity. For an instant Ernest
stood spell-bound, then he darted off toward
the old tree, while Josephine stood with
clasped hands, not daring to follow him. He
returned in a few moments. No further sound
had been heard by either, and he had been
utterly unable to find any sign around the
mysterious metal.
Josephine shook her head gravely.  " What
do you think of it?"
" I am convinced it is either a serious joke
played upon the family, or the effect of the wind,
or the old tree is shaken by subterranean causes.
Otherwise, I prefer to disbelieve my senses, to
believing in that species of madness called
superstition."
" Huh," whispered Josephine; "do not
speak so positively. There are powers we
must not evoke by defying them entirely."
".And yet I do defy them," answered he, de-
liberately. "As long as God continues to me
the full possession of the faculties he has given
me, 1 intend to use them in spite of all bells
and ghosts and goblins, or other creatures of
superstition.
They waited some minutes, and as no fur-
ther sound was heard, they went back again in-
to the house. Supper had just been announced,
and a very agreeable change was noticeable in
the ceasing of those intolerable fiddles.
'he supper-room presented a great improve-
ment over the scene in the dancing-hall. Here,
at last, the old splendor of the family shone
again. It was not the dining-room, but the
large, empty picture gallery, .in which the ban-
quet was served. The plate, the glasses, the
table ornaments, were magnificent, and the
name of Delmonico was stamped more legibly
than lItters could have written it, on the dish-
es themselves, and in the style of the numer-
ois waiters, by the perfection of every item,
and the correctness of the tout ensemble." -
Time guests, although numerous for a coun-
try ball, could each find a seat at this princely
table, where the Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte
presided at one head of it, and the tailor's
daughter at the other. Our hero found him-
self seated between Josephine Van Strom and
Jessie Going. These young ladies had known
each other for some time, and conversed freely
across his plate, which situation he enjoyed im-
mensely, drawing elaborate parallels between
them in the privacy of his own thoughts. The
influence of Miss Jessie's sweet presence Was
Over him, and could he, then and there, have
had the privilege of choosing his life's partner,

he would have discarded the heart full of pas-
sionate love and unqualified devotion, and taken
the one not yet proven by the fiery test of life's
great struggles, not yet in condition for one to
coufidentlysay of it, that it was good, noble, and
faithful.
The wine began to circulate freely, and as
it disappeared, glass by glass, and bottle by
bottle, it came again to view in the suddenly
flushed faces and sparkling eyes. To some of
the guests, the decanters and dishes, the pyra-
mids of confectionery, and bouquets of flowers,
began to lose their distinctive shades, and
stagger around the table as if they, and not
the gentlemen, were intoxicated. Laughter
grew louder and more unmeaning.   Conver-
sation became a medley in which each speaker
listened only to himself, and the noise and donfu-
sion grew louder and higher. There was  any
a wanton leer in that array of faces, and. eyes
were glowing in the misty heat of wine. The
manner of well-drilled waiters is a fair criterion
by which to estimate the condition of the guests.
As the latter become noisy and clamorous for a
score of things which are not touched when
received, they become more mechanical, more
respectful, more decorous, and more thorough-
ly blind to the follies of their superiors.
The revelry increased. There were many
country gentlemen present, who had inherited
the hard heads of their Dutch ancestors with
their appetites, and who did not object to deep
potations on an occasion like this, and their
willing competitors were some that young men
from New York. You fast young men of New
York I It is you, of high-bred families and
low-bred tastes, it is you that a City Recorder
alluded to, when he said from his bench of
justice: "Thhere is a class of young men in
this city who vie with each other in setting at
defiance alike the laws of God Iand man."
The atmosphere of the room was growing
thick, and the lights turned red and assumed
the shapes of drunken goblins imprisoned in
the glass-chimneys of the lamps, where before
were seen only the patient tongues of flame.
The genial- Goildess of Plenty exhausted, gave
place to the Demon of Debauch, incarnate in
the person of Mr. Paradise, who now rose- to
make an address.   It was witty, vile, and
reckless, in all its bearing upon subjects of re-
finemnt, and it was the signal for the revelry
to degenerate into a bacchanalian orgy.
John Van Strom's seat was next his wife.
So far he had behaved well, although all Bella's
efforts and entreaties to restrain him from
drinking to excess had been of no avail. He
was all smiles and tenderness for her; but
nothing would keep him from excess. Follow-
ing .Josephine, who thought it high time for
the ladies to retire, they all arose, but John
kept his wife at his side. She looked at him.
All his good-humor was gone.
"You stay where you are," hp muttered,
gruffly.
That gaze told her the truth. His eyes were
bloodshot. The expression of his face un-
speakably drunken, and, more than this; for,
when Bella huimbly took her seat again, at his
command, she knew that her husband was a
raving maniac, ready to show it at any moment.

FAti TASY.                     35


GOING AND SON.

37t

i F
rf
4F li

Many gentlemen, among whom were Mr.
Going and our hero, followed the ladies, who
either loitered about the hall or sent for their
shawls and strolled about the grounds and
gardens on the side of the house opposite the
fatal bell.
.  Whither are you bound, Mr. Montant ?"
asked Miss Jessie Going, as she passed our
hero on his way to join Josephine Van Strom.
"I am going to join- " Miss Jessie guessed
the state of the case, and interposed artlessly:
"I have something to tell you. Will you
wait here, while I go up-stairs and get my
shawl ?"
He hesitated. There was a queer enticing
smile on her face.
:. Certainly," he said, and Miss Going swept
proudly up-stairs as if she had done something
great, and fully conscious of having " cut out "
the widow. The latter, being near enough to
hear the dialogue, showed her appreciation of
the incident by turning her back very deci-
sively, while le bit his lips and felt vexed with
her, Miss Going, and himself.
In a few moments the young lady tripped
up to him, enveloped in a shawl, and took his
arm without ceremony.
"iWhat can you have to say to me, Mademoi-
selle ?" asked Montaut, when they had stepped
out upon the piazza and were marching up and
down sedately.
"The weather has changed. What has be-
come of the moon, I wonder?" said the young
lady.
" Is that all? What an interesting remark
that is, Miss Going!"
"I did wish to see you about something,"
said she, with a certain levity of tone which
displeased him, " but I have really forgotten
what it wvas about."
iDo you know," he said, gravely, "that you
are too much inclined to tread the path of life
lightly? After your good sense prompts you
to think and act with that sincerity and firm-
ness of which you are capable, you are liable,
the very next moment, to destroy what you
have so well begun."
"Have I shown myself in that light to
you ?"
"" Yes."
"And may I ask when and in what way ?"
Our hero seemed puzzled. He did not wish
to upbraid her for ignoring him and devoting
herself to Messrs. Faro and Willie.Wheeler,
at that dinner in Fifth Avenue, immediately
after having appealed so strongly to him to be
her friend forever, and exacted, almost forcibly,
a very serious promise from him. lie did not
wish to let her know that he thought her in-
considerate as well as too light-hearted, and
he said, impatiently.-
"With your permission we will change the
subject."
Jessie Going probably knew well enough
to what her companion had referred, in his
thoughts, and there ensued a somewhat em
barassing pause.
"What do you think of Mrs. Van Strom,'
she asked, after awhile.
" I think she is a splendid, nole-hearted(
woman, who has not merited her sad trials

I think she is one of the few who ask from the
world, nothing but love and sympathy, and
who would rather die for a friend than injure
him."
Miss Jessie bit her lips. She was beginning
to understand that this foreigner did not intend
to be a plaything for a girl's whims, and though
conscious of her power over him, as all women
are to some extent, she was a little bit afraid
of him. That speech about Josephine con-
tained a rebuke which he did not care to con-
teal, and it stung her to the quick.
" Perhaps you would prefer to join the lady
who seems so to excite your enthusiasm," she
said, languidly.
"As you wish, mademoiselle," he replied,
coldly. "I am at your service during your
good pleasure."
" Then let us go in, for the night is too damp
to be pleasant."
These were the last words they exchanged
that evening, and, as he left her to the society
of Mr. Fatman, in the hall, and she turned her
back upon hin as if he had been a perfect
stranger, a great bitterness surged up and
filled his heart.
CHAPTER IX.
WhAT THE OLD BELL MEANT BY RINGING. -
"Hear it not, Duncan, for It is a knell
Which summons thee to heaven or to hell.'
MAc1iaTr.
IT took but a minute for our hero to find and
join Mrs. Van  Strom, and  soon they were
walking in the grounds, and strolling through
the flower-garden, with its graveled walks and
artistic box-hiedges.
She took his arm, and, after a few minutes
conversation, every trace of jealousy left her.
It is true that she had angrily turned her back
upon him, when a simple word from Miss
Going had proven sufficient to keep him from
her side, and what woman would not have done
so? But when, after a very short walk widli
her, he returned, and as she now held posses-
sion of him, and he addressed her as waraly
and devotedly as over, she forgot all but her
great love for him, and what woman would
have done otherwise?
Miss Going's remark on the weather, was
none the less true for its 'want of originality.
The heavens had darkened and the feeling of
rain was in the air. It was a warni night. and
though the moon had veiled her face, there,
were millions of glow worms astir in the
shrubbery, swarming to and fro in sparkling
affection, finding each other by the light of
love.. The air resounded with the lively, never-
tiring chorus of katy-dids, and out-doors
seemed the workshop of legions of dwarfish
spirits, each busy in his peculiar way, glitter-
ing, chirping, working  with indefatigable
- energy, concocting magical wonders in Nature.
There !  a streak  of lightning.  A another I
The insects fly about in excitement, the katy-
dids join afresh in a grand allegro, as if te
master were approaching and the little people
.were hurried in their work.

The music in the hall ceased, the fiddles
lay on the little platform unmolested, for the
darkeys were -walking into the good things
that had been undemolished by the guests.
Occasionally a peal of laughter, a boisterous
speech-makers voice, a round of cheers. or a
confusion of wanton sound, broke upon the ears
of the two strollers, disturbing their serene
enjoyment of the most enchanting of nights,
alive with all the creatures of a midsummer
night's dream.
"What a wondrous, magic scene," said
Josephine. "How distorted, almost unrecog-
nizable, these familiar objects around us ap-
pear.-
"Something is in the wind," said -he,
absently.
"Yes; and who knows what the next hour
may bring to any of us ? This grand house
may be struck by lightning, and a circle of
corpses confront each other in ghastly silence
around the table, where they are now chal-
lenging the justice of Heaven by their reckless
.debauch. And, should the storm burst forth,
they would still remain there in drunken defi-
ance of its dread powers."
" This is a strange but pertinent fancy of
yours, Mrs. Van Strom," he answered, gloom-
ily. " Were their eyes -opened, this moment,
they would recognize grim death beneath each
others' masks of joviality, and with horror they
would see that the skeleton is growing in size
and strength with every glass they empty."
"Why do men drink?"     asked Josephine,
sadly. "My experience of its effects on the
best and most generous of natures is so sor-
rowful that I hate the very sight of wine."
'Naturally.  But your question    applies
equally to all the sins committed here below,
which are permitted that the righteous may be
separated from the vicious in the sight of God
and roan.  These sins are generally an out-
growth of refinement and luxury. Excess is the
name for them, and moderation is the great
virtue. I do not believe in total abstinence."
"Why are not all men like you ?" said
Josephine, warmly.
SBecause, said he, smiling, "they have
not all been thrown upon their resources early
enough, or under such circumstances as to
force them to cultivate habitual caution, self-
restraint, and firmness of will. Early indul-
gence breaks their strength of mind, and when
the time comes that they need to rely upon
it, it shows itself rotten at tihe core."
"Could wiu--would you love beyond self.
control, without reservation, unconditionally,
and i'nrnoderatelypr"
It Was a queer question, and her tone and
manner on asking it were queerer.  Hesita-
tingly', timidly, but breathlessly waiting for his
answer.
"I do not know. A$ far as my experience
goes--ino."
"Look at the fire-flies," saidJosephmine, dream-
ily. "Ordinary affections resemble their tiny
flickering lights. They illuminate for an instant
the dark corners of the foliage around us, fly
fro  spot to spot, staying inone, lighting up
lhevdffrent places they are in for the time,
btlaete entire scene in darkness.  So

36

with the recesses of the human heart until the
great light comes like a flash; yes, like that
flash of lightning which has just darted its
livid flame around, illuminating the whole scene,
the whole heart."
" Ard sometimes, too, brings death."
"Yes. And when it does, God pity the
sufferers."
" And you ask me whether I could love as
you say ?"
"Yes," murmured Josephine.    "Tell me
whether you can so love. Here in the sight
of nature, in its mysterious workings ; here in
the sight of all its majesty, in the presence of
the spirit that governs this hour, tell me if you
can."
There was a solemn appeal in these words,
not in accordance with her naturally enthu-
siastic, but timid character. Our hero helt it,
and all-at once the scales fell from his eyes,
Like a shock, the knowledge, the conviction,
came to him, and almost overpowered him.
Yes, he now knew that she loved him, he felt
it in the throbbing of her heart as she clung
closely to his arma, he felt it in the trembling of
her arm which clung to him as if for life, lie
heard it in that passionate voice, and he saw
it even through the darkness in the wonderful
glow of her languishing eyes. With a great
effort he gathered his best, his strongest, his
purest impulses, and the integrity of his
character was prominent in his reply.
" I think I can so love. But I do not think
it will come to me as a flash; but rather like
the dawn of day which is heralded by a
faint and struggling ray, to grow by nature's
almighty laws, slowly -but surely, into the
bright and overwheming beauty of tienoon-
day. That light, Mrs. Van Strom, will not
suddenly vanihm into the darkness whence it
sprang, like your lightning, but it will remain,
grand and omnipotent, till the close of life's
day, when the night cometh, and we can bid
it farewell contentedly.
"Let it come as it may," cried Josephine,
passionately ; '"but when it has come," and she
pulled her arm from him and pressed both
hands on her tempestuous heart, "there is no
power in heaven or earth that can control it."
In a state of agitation heretofore totally un-
known to him, he took a step toward her. The
lightning's brilhiant glare showed her to him, as
she stood with her hands on her breast and her
face upturned to him--the face of Raphael's
Madonna. Reader, if you desire a superhuman
hero, close the book here. Our hero was
human, and, at this moment, all strength of will,
all thought of consequences, all scruples, and
all presence of mind vanished. His arm was
around her; the soft, full, trembling form, as
perfect as was ever given to woman, sank into
his embrace and she sought, instead of re-
sisting, the passionate kiss which affianced
them.
Upon a friendly garden bench, they sat in
tender embrace, lost in the intoxication of love.
The fire-flies peeped at them, and flew back to
their mates in the bushes to tell them what they
saw. The katy-dids struck up the old love
song, telling time world what the world knows
very well; yet, is anxious to learn again, a

FANTASY.


GOING AND SON.

38

i
t,
,
.
s
1
'r  '.
t
t t
'f    }
f }
1    1

million times, how  "Katy did" and "Katy
didn't." A warmer and more passionate spirit
seemed to rule the summer night with loving
sway, as though great " Nature rejoicedin the
bliss of two of her noblest children."
Called back to a sense of fleeting time, they
sauntered back to the house, she lost in him
and delirious with happiness; he proud, and
joyously excited, and already making plans for
the future, and trying to foresee the possible
ends of this night work.
They found the piazza deserted, and took
the opportunity for a long, parting kiss, and as
he held her tightly to his breast, feeling every
pulsation of her heart vibrating through his
frame, she whispered softly,-
" Ernest, darling, tell me, once more before
we part, do you love me with all your heart?"
The words seemed to stick in his throat,
but he would not hesitate, could not be so cruel
as to say "no " to her at this moment were it
the greatest lie of his life.
"I love you, indeed I love you 1"  And
though at a later day, when, in cold blood he
reviews that speech, conscience might tell
him he had lied to her, yet when he spoke the
words, and received his reward, he thought
he had spoken the truth.
When they entered the hall, the scene they
beheld startled them considerably. Many had
gone home, the ladies that were left. wrapped
in their shawls and cloaks were huddled in a
corner. Most of the gentlemen, with their
hats in their hands, kept close by them as if
for their protection, and in thecenter of the room
John Van Strom was dancing a sort of pus de
deux with his wife. She kept a steady, un-
flinching gaze upon him, dancing as little as
possible, moving closely to him like a snake-
charmer, for at this moment John was a manic
on the verge of raving violence.
Mr Paradise, the hunchback, was applaud-
ing with a shrill voice. and looked like an in-
sane fiend, striving with Pella for the mastery
over this weak intellect, while some intoxicated
fools were laughing and dancing about the
group, and the Cimmerian Quaternion were
fiddling away with accompanying contortions,
"'Twas a scene from a madhouse."
"Dance, gentlemen," roared John, his voice
rising above the tumult.  "Why the devil
don't you dance. Who won't dance ?"
With a shriek and a rush John was left in
the center of a wide open space, were his
grinning admirers had just stood. his clothes
torn, his hair disheveled, his face distorted, and
his eyes on fire, brandishing the naked broad-
sword once worthily wielded by his grandsire,
and bellowing like a wild beast.
" Who won't dance?  Show me the fellow.
I'll have his blood I I'll have his blood any
way I"
And there stood his wife, the color all gone
from her face, within reach of his weapon.
The drunken musicians played faster and faster
their fiddles squeaking, tittering, and shriek-
ing as though hell had set loose a band of
howling devils.
"Stop those crazy fools," some one at length
cried, and when it was done a dead silence
prevailed, broken only by the heavy breathing

blessing of oblivion on his distracted brain,
and the bonds of sleep on his boiling veins.
The old butler, sitting, at his bedside, thinks
of the great changes he has seen in the family,
and of his dead master. and weeps bitterly.
And peeping through another window.she
sees the wife of low degree pacing the room.
Her wound is not severe, but its pain and the
excitement of the evening have kept her from
her bed. She is planning out the future
bravely, and only sobs when the present dis-
tress comes to her mind overwhelmingly.
And below stairs there lies the. old man's'
body, stark and stiff, for him the patient moon
hides her face, and the pitying clouds drop
tears again.
Josephine has done her part nobly. She

of the maniac as he stood rolling his eyes
around the room, trying to choose a victim.
Bella approached him fearlessly.
"For God's sake, don't;" said some, trying
to keep her back.
"If any one has to die by those hands it
must be I," was the answer. Then she said,
firmly.
"John, give me that sword I"
But it was too late. The wine had intense.
fled him to a paroxysm of fury which defied
restraint.  A cry was heard as the sword
flashed through the air, and the bleeding form
of the faithful wife sank to the floor.
Though wounded, she clung to him tightly,
and he, maddened still more by the sight of
blood, was raging and tearing himself from
her grasp, when a little man coolly stepped up
behind him, and catching one of his feet, quickly
upset him on the floor. It was our acquaint-
ance, Antonio Stilletto, and now, yes, now, the
gentlemen rushed to his assistance, and John
was secured.
Then came the senseless chatter of "what
a dreadful thing ;" ".perfectly shocking ;" "he
ought to be kept in an asylum;" "poor thing,"
she's dead ;" " what a pity ;" " what a shame
that he should be at large," &amp;c., &amp;c., ad nac'-
seam; but what was that crowd in the corner?
Was there to be another horror to mark this
eventful night?  Was it a visitation on the
family, some curse, the fulfillment of sofne
dark prophecy, an atonement for some hidden
crime ?  What was it they were carrying out
so carefully, from the place where it had
fallen, unperceived in the great excitement.
It was dressed in the costume of the great
emperor, but the wig had slipped off. It was
the body of old John Jacob Van Strom, killed
by a stroke of apoplexy.
It had grown late when those guests left
the Priory, and they were in a far different
mood than when they had come. When the
last of the carriages rolled away, a gentle rain
was falling as though heaven would wash away
the traces of that night's doings. As the merci-
ful drops rustle through the weeping willows
and through the park, the wind sighs in the
trees, shaking their heads over the hurrying
coaches; there is many a man on whom the
voice of Heaven, which called so suddenly
upon Van Strom, has not been lost, and many
a disconcerted face, many a compressed lip,
tells of an uneasy conscience and a heavy
heart.            .
And when the last sound of the departing
wheels has died away, the moon breaks
through the clouds and looks down upon the
house of death, with the willows weeping in
front of it, and the old bell tolling a funeral
chime. The house lies dark and cold as though
hung in crape for the death of its master, and
the tire-flies shine no more, and the k aty-dids
are mute. And the moon looked within the
house and peeped curiously around the cbam-
ber where but lately license held high carnival.
The rats were undisturbed in their disputing
over the remnants of the, feast, and the instrl'-
ments of music were lying, still and dumb,
on the little platform. ~And in another rootS
she saw the form of a shattered man, with the

wept at first, wept on the breast of the man
who will give strength and comfort to her in
all her future trials, and then rose and took
the head of the household, helping here, direct-
ing there, and working wherever work was to
be done.
Now she sleeps, and, smiling in her sleep,
dreams but the one sweet dream, while her
lover watches the body of John Jacob Van
Strom, till broad day.
And at last the moon sends a parting glance
at the desolate house and sinks to rest. The
old bell rings no more, though the morning
breezes are coming merrily along.  They can
not awaken the ghost, the bell finds no life in
their fresh breaths, for they herald a dawning
day which will bring a change over the Priory.

" And so I will, my lad," answered the old
man, staring vacantly into the air from his
high stool, where lie was perched, as usual. in
a confusion of angles. " Wait till we find an
unoccupied evening, a quiet room, some good
beef, and a respectable jug of ale., My wants
have been modified to a charming simplicity in
the course of my life."
" And yet you can not deny that you are still
extravagant in some matters," answered Mon-
tant, eagerly-" the poor call you princely in
your charities, and I heard an old woman say
you were the best and kindest man that ever
lived."
"No more on this subject," said Martin
Bates, hurriedly, and blushing all over his sal-
low face. ' It belongs to the Lord of Heaven,
alone, with all its pro's and con's."
Our hero looked up ini astonishment at his
unnecessary vehemence, and equivocal lan-
guage. He could not imagine what the old
fellow meant, so like a wise man, he held his
tongue. Through the open window the tedi-
ous strains of a hand-organ broke jarringly on
their ears. Martin Bates looked up. his face
flushed again; this time with expectation. The
door opened and in came one of those Italian
girls who are a distinct, and not over-respect-
able part of the city's manifold population.
She was pretty, might have reached the age of
seventeen antidher neatness and evident modes-
ty presented an agreeable contrast to the rest
of her class.
Ernest Montant had seen her on many pro-
vious occasions, and withdrew, as usual, leaving
her alone with old Martin hBttes, who was her
friend and protector. It did not astonish any
one that they conversed in a whisper nor that
Martin caine to the cash drawer, and got a
twenty dollar bill, which he gave to the girl.
This had happened before, and, just as before,
nobody knew what to make of it.

FANTASY.

39

~1

It
ii

BOOK II.-FACT.

CHAPTER I.
MARTIN BATES.
"Soe sins do bear their privilege on earth."
Km s Joas
" Yxe young man, thirty years in this office !
No wonder that every one knows old Martin
Bates; but a great wonder that so few people
speak ill of him. Long in the service, sir, and
prepared to die in it."
And had he not one foot already on the
verge of the grave ? Several bunches of white
hair hung around his well-nigh bald head, and
as he sat perched upon his high stool, there
u-as a cadaverous look about him. His high
cheek bones protruded in sharp angles, each
overlooked by a very light-colored. unexpress-
ive eye  Martin's single fault was chewing
tobace , and he had a very peculiar way of
rolling his quid into his right cheek whenever
he entered a "credit" item in his books, then,
with a frightful grimace, rolling it back again
to the left side when he wrote a "debit."  If
Mr. Going wished to know whether money
was Cminiug in or going out of the house, he
had only to look at his head cashier, old Mar-
tin Bates, and observe the protuberance on
the cheek of that gentleman's square face.
"Thirty years winh Going &amp; Son 1 An errand
boy under Walter's grandfather and slowly
riig to be the head of the outer office. Do
l expect to become a partner? No, sir ! Mar-
tin Bates was born to ill-luck, and Fortune has
kicked him and snarled at him all his life."
The old cashier had taken a great fancy to
Our hero, and often, after the members of the
firm had gone home, lie would talk to Ernest
Montant, who liked him for his good-natured
but melancholy originality.
You have often promised to tell me of
your past life, Mr. Bates," said our hero.


40

GOING AND SON.

;ti
3i .
riJA
f4
in'
it

FACT.

Weeks rolled on, and Mr. Going had the old
Priory put in complete repair, and then the
whole family moved out there to spend the
summer in their newly-acquired property. The
house in Fifth Avenue was closed and became
a subject of speculation for the burglars of the
city. Weeks rolled on, the business did not
prosper as it should, heavy losses had to be
met and old Martin Bates chewed his tobacco
on the credit side of his face, with a determin-
ed air, and an occasional scowl. The Italian
girl continued her visits and received so many
twenty-dollar bills that Montant wondered at
the amount of the cashier's salary which could
warrant such liberality. But then Martin
Bates was the managing clerk, and with his
modest personal wants, he could afford it with-
out a doubt. His preference for our hero in-
creased, and the latter asked himself with
wonder how it was that the best, the kindest
people so courted his friendship. It is true
that he had enemies. Stilletto did not like him,
Solomons, the Jew broker, never spoke to him
as he did to the rest of the clerks, and Mr. Fat-
man ignored him in a marked manner, when
they happened to encounter each other; but
these men and others, belonged to those who
had themselves impressed him with dislike, and
he could easily imagine that something in his
own manner, incapable of hypocrisy as he was,
had  prevented any approach to cordiality.
And, again, Miss Jessie Going had not treated
him quite satisfactorily-but had he not the
lore of Josephine Van Strom?
Weeks rolled on, and one evening we find
Martin Bates and Ernest Montant at the club"
of the former  Not a fashionable club. Oh,
no 1 The roast beef was excellent, the ale capi-
tal and a good old Engl;sh cheer prevailed
through this retreat for cricketers and English
clerks, who here could almost fancy themselves
away from New York and once more within
the sound of Bow-bells.
" English filberts, my boy I" said Martin,
"and some very respectable port. Take plenty
of the nuts, they make your plate look cheer-
ful. But what are you doing?   Why, man,
you must scrape them carefully with that silver
knife until they are as smooth and white as in-
nocence itself. There is a soul in a filbert, a
true British soul, if you only know how to find
it under the rough rind."
Then Ishouldcall some Englishmenflberti,"
said Ernest, smiling, carefully peeling one of
the nuts.
True enoughl" said Martin Bates, " Al-
though I would rather undertake to peel a
filbert than some of my countrymen. Perhaps
even that beast called the world has a heart
under its snarling exterior; but heaven knows
I have never found it out. And now let us
hive another bottle of port and I will tell you
a few brief incidents of my life which I have
never mentioned, although I have often wanted
to tell them to some one."
The waiter was a German, who tried to press
himself off as an Englishman by duly dropping
his h's, adding them where they did not belong,
andl interspersing his few words with "sir,"
with a liberality which outshone all the waiters
of Pickwick. Having dismissed this wor thy

Anglo-Saxon, Martin Bates related the following
story:-
"I am the younger son of an English gen-
tleman, who lived upon a more ancient than
valuable estate, not many hours from London.
My' elder-'brother, Ebenezer Bates, the heir of-
my father's little fortune, the pet of the house,
the pride of the family, became a lawyer, say-
ing that wealth could not warrant his idleness.
He is a proud, cold man, a strict Protestant, a
pillar of the church, bearing a spotless char-
acter and standing high in the community."
Martin Bates spoke the last words with
scarce concealed bitterness. He paused a mo-
ment to compose his feelings and tien pro-
ceeded.-
" I grew up, an impetuous boy, ready at
any moment for a game of cricket, for a foot-
race. a frolic, or a fight, and my father reluc-
tantly acceded to my importunity and purchased
me a commission in the British army. The
world smiled on Martin Bates then, my debts
were paid by my brother who raised the funds
for rue without my father's knowledge. I
thanked him, and yet I could not love him for
it."
"Why ?"
"lBecause he accompanied each gift with a
scowl and a sermon. lie had no consideration,
no sympathy for me, and I saw, only too
plainly, that it was just his selfish pride which
prompted him to save the family name from
disgrace, not brotherly love."
" Mr. Bates," said Ernest, "did you never
meet men who, considering themselves mc-h
injured by the harsh opinions of the world,
nevertheless judged others as harshly?  After
all, your brother seems to have acted toward
you in a manner which would ordinarily call
for-"
" Let me finish," interrupted the other.
heaven knows, he owes all his grand posi-
tion and good name to those kind acts. I only
gave him credit for them. I never balanced
any gratitude by such reflections as have forced
themselves upon me at a much later period,
and, when the time came, I sacrificed myself
to save him."
"Now listen. My brother Eben and I, re-
sembled each other to such a degree, that
casual acquaintances were apt to mistake our
identity. My face is haggard now, While lie is
still a handsome man; but you must remem-
ber that I have sat on an office-stool like a par-
rot in his cage for the past thirty years. con-
demned to be a senseless debit and credit
machine, while smiling fortune took him to her
soft bosom and nursed him to a handsome, and
vigorous old age. Thirty years ago he was,
rising barrister of Lincoln's Inn Fields, and I
exerted my influence among my fellow-officers
to bring clients to him."
"Among others, I succeeded with my colonel,
who soon placed the utmost confidence in hiu.
and at whose house he shortly became a wel-
come and frequent guest. The colonel was so
pleased with him. whom he called, ' a man of
rare dignity and integrity of character,' that
soumeof his flavor even reached me; and though
onily a lieutenant, without a family title. I
also was well received at his house. Now

41

comes the case which shall decide who is the
better man. Eben, who has preserved his 'rare
dignity and integrity' to this day, in the eyes
of the world, or poor old Martin, disgraced,
discarded, and condemned to the pillory of an
otlice-stool, for such would I have regarded it
thirty years ago when I was a gentleman, and
an officer."
Martin Bates paused, and wiped away the
perspiration from his square forehead. He
had already imbibed freely, and now poured
down several glasses of port-wine, like a man
who feels suddenly weak and needs a stimu-
lus.
' The colonel's wife, Lady - , belonged to
one of those proud families in England that are
descended from some king's left-handed marri-
age, and feel highly honored by such a record.
She was a handsome woman, though already
past that bloom of life which ever alone could
attract me. I rather admired her for her re-
finement and dignity; but not a word even of
intimacy ever passed between us.
" Itogine my surprise, when, one morning
I was placed under arrest, then in close con-
fiuemneit, and finally summoned before a
court-martial !  I was conscious of neither
crime nor misdemeanor; but what was my
utter consternation when I read the charges
preferred against me! I was accused of con-
duct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman,
in that I had grossly and criminally insulted
Litly -  , my colonel's wife. The specifica-
tions of the charges related that I was discov-
ered one evening in the garden where my lady
had been walking, with my arms around her
and attempting to kiss lips sacred to the col-
onel. Her husband arrived. on the scene-at
his approach I had fled-and she, breathless
with agitation, stated that she had been as-
saulted by an unknown person, and confirmed
the statement by going into hysterics. But
the colonel had recognized me, not only by my
uniform, but by my face! Recognized me
with sullicient certainty to be able to swear
to my identity.
'-At first, I was bewildered, almost to in-
sanity-but finally, my boy-finally the truth
struck me like a thunderbolt! Yes, the col-
ouel had recognized the face, though in the
twilight. le had recognized my uniform, and
I knew that my brother had borrowed one of
mite some months previously for private theatri-
cals, and had never returned it. All was now
clear. My lady had made a desperate effort at
a moment when all seemed lost, and had told
a lie to gain time. I saw that this lie would
prove successful.  At my court-martial she
would not be summoned as a witness, and had
I accused my brother, all he had to do was to
treat the charge with indignant silence, and
fall back on his 'rare dignity and integrity of
character.' My lady had only to perjure her-
self anid who could doubt that the charge
would return to me with crushing weight."
" Perjure herself I" cried our hero. "Would
she have  dared to do that?    Could  she
have unflinchingly faced a cross-examina-
tion ?"
- 'Cross-examination!I" exclaimed Martin
Bates, with a sneer. " How extremely verdant

you must be ! Don't you remember she was
Lady       ? Do you suppose that in Eng-
land ladyships are bantered on a witness-stand
like kitchen-maids? And as to her willing.
ness to perjure herself, what else could she
have done ? Here was her own and her
husband's name in'the scale against a junior
officer's honor; could there be a question that
the occasion demanded a lie? I may be mis-
taken, but I felt myself lost, and accepted my
doom with as good a grace as possible."
"And your brother ?"
"He visited me once. I can see him now,
as he stood in my cell. His handsome face,
austere and grandly dignified as ever, until the
turnkey had left us alone. Then he wept, and
begged my pardon-d-n him I"
There was a hardness in his voice that did
not please his listener.
If he repented, and felt for you-"
" Repeated and felt for me " cried Martin
Bates, furiously. "le was dismayed at the
dishonor which I was sure to bring upon his
name; he was trembling with the weight of
his guilty conscience, afraid lest I should at-
tempt to show the truth to the world ; he was
bent upon securing my self-sacriilce by his
damnable show of remorse and sympathy.
He confessed the intrigue, swore that that
meeting in the garden was to be their last;
that he was engaged to be married to a sweet
girl, whose heart would break if he were dis-
covered, and finally-the villain-implored my
forgiveness; and yet I know that had I ac-
cused him before the bar, he would have sworn,
with two fingers uplifted to God, that he was
not guilty."
Montant   shook  his  head, doubtfully.
Martin Bates-took no notice of the gesture;
but continued:
" I spurned him, telling him that he could
not deceive me by his hypocrisy ; but I assured
him that he might feel .safe, that I would
quietly submit to my fate. I was court-
martialed, dishonorably dismissed the service,
and drummed out of my regiment." It was a
neat ceremony, by God I"
His passion almost choked him.
" I was a ruined man," he continued,
hoarsely. "My friends cut me; no lady would
speak to me ; but every one pitied my poor
brother I Aye, how kind in him to visit his
disgraced brother in prison, and finally to give
him money to' go and hide his disgrace in
America. And how natural that the sweet
girl to whom he was engaged, did not break
off the match on my account; but married the
kind, the noble-hearted man, with such rare
dignity and integrity of character, without
heeding what was not his fault-oh, no, not
his fault, but only his misfortune-which he
regretted sorely, but bore with that equanimity
and calmness for which lie was so duly
praised.
" And when we parted, how edifying was
his stately, studied kindness, his condescending
sympathy, not unmixed with forbearing re-
proach. How different all this from the
craven sulbmissiveness with which he threw
himself at my feet in the cell, weeping anid
Groaning as a miserable sinner should do,-only


42

GOING AND SON.

i
Ii
.L1
le

it was all put on to impose on my soft heart.
So I came here a pauper, and old Mr. Going's
father took me in his office, and here I am,
after thirty years of debit and credit, with the
world still snarling at me, as it has done ever
since those events happened."
-What, have you not seen your brother
these many years ?"
Martin Bates never heard or ignored this ques-
tion, and continued, --He is also in this country.
Despite all Lady -   's finesse, some queer
rumors got afloat in London. Heaven knows
whether the colonel did not suspect his wife,
and cross-question her. Might it not be that
my misfortune was the result of a full con-
fession on her part, and a preconcerted plan
among themselves to - save their spotless
names?   At all events, they say that when
the colonel surprisel his wife in the garden,
that eventful night, a scene ensued, the noise
of which attracted the servants. And yet, I
doubt that he prosecuted me under false pre-
tenses. A colonel in the British army, and
perjury I No; that is impossible "
"For what reason do you suppose your
brother wore your uniform?" said our hero.
" I hardly ever gave it a thought. I do not
think that lie could have foreseen the conse-
quences; so I suppose that he chose to wear
the uniform merely because it fitted him well,
and displayed his figure to advantage."
" Is this brother of yours," said Montant,
hastily, as if suddenly impressed with a coin-
cidence of names; " that is, are you any rela-
tion to Judge Bates, of Massachusetts?"
" Judge Bates is my brother Eben," replied
old Martin, drily.
If he had not been absorbed in his own
thoughts, Martin Bates could not have failed to'
notice that this information affected his com-
panion very strongly. Our hero's face flushed
-he bit his lips, and endeavored to regain his
composure. In a few moments he was able to
remark, in an apparently unconcerned man-
ner-
"I understand that he holds a high position
in his profession, and is much respected by
the community."
" ie is a man of rare dignity and integrity
of character," quoth Martin Bates, with a sar-
donic laugh.
" And he has a beautiful daughter," added
our hero, almost below his breath.
" You know him ?" asked the old cashier,
casting a quick, searching look upon his inter-
locutor.
"1osaw him  and his daughter when Mr.
Walter Going and I were last in Boston,"
answered our hero, quickly.
"Did I not understand that he knows my
niece pretty well ?" asked Martin Bates, slily.
1 I don't know the extent of their acquaint-
ance," answered Ernest, composedly. "But
to resume our subject," lie added, with anima-
tiou, - I feel at liberty to tell you that you are
not quite so kind-hearted in your judgment of
your brother, as in many other matters that
have come to my knowledge. You are called
the most charitable of meon. Does this charity
only concern your purse ? Does it leave voui
heart, whenice it should arise, cold and uniconi

FACT.

cerned ? Have you not sufficient justice to
concede that your brother had to consider the
reputation of a noble lady, and the happiness
of his betrothed; and that he sacrificed your
honor only with a bleeding heart?  Are you
certain that your own behavior did not alitn.
ate him from you? Can you deny that after
all he did what he could to make up-the great
wrong which you suffered-not so much at his
hands as from cruel destiny?  Your own state.
ments exculpate him in a great measure."
" Do you expect me to kiss the rod, like a
woman ?" asked Martin Bates, with a dark look.
"No; but I am certain that if you ap-
proached your brother to-day: if you would
seek him in an hour of adversity, you would
find a shelter under his roof, and a home in
his household."
" Like a stray dog, that would find a kennel
in some dirty corner of his barn; and that only -
because Eben Bates must keep up his charac-
ter for charity."
 "Is it a worthy practice to attribute a man's
acts of kindness to motives of pure selfish.
ness?"
-' No; unless you know your man as I know
mine. But no more of this. I want to make
you my confidant, for I am sure you are not
one of the world that snarls at old Martin
Bates. Besides, I want your aid in a personal
matter, provided you feel disposed to aid me."
Ernest was not at all anxious to possess his
secrets; but being willing to befriend this oldj
man, left by all, gave him an encouraging nod,
as one tlat would say,-
" Proceed at your pleasure; but at your
pleasure only."
" Know then," said the ex-lieutenant, "know
then-that Martin Bates, the old tool, is in
love !"
The other did not, attempt to suppress a
smile.
"Smile away, young man, for well you may.
Here I am, with gray hair and the experience
of half a century to cool my blood a-nd teach
me wisdom ;-here I am confessing this idiocy
to a man not much over twenty, although I
am well convinced that you would not have
sunk so low in the rank of fools as I am. No
wonder that I doubt all the world when I have
to despise myself."
Did the old cashier despise himself only for
weakness toward the fair sex? Ile had used
the term in a manner which did not exclusive-
ly refer to that particular point of self-accusa-
tion.
"oYou have seen the Italian girl who comes
into our office, and receives money from tie?
She-'
" Wehat?  I hope-"
"Hope or no hope," he interrupted. "11er I
love, and her I intend to marry-"
Our hero was speechless.    Ile simply
stared at the old man.
"She is a gentle, good creature. and I want-
her to comfort inc in my last days. I have a
little property-a little property," he repeit-
ed, as though mentally reckoning the net pro-
ceeds. "' which I shall make over to her iumne-
diately, and then we shall go to Italy. There I
will end my days, solaced and attended by her.

43

"Leave our house ?" cried Ernest.
" Yes," said the other, quietly, " aria yotu
will have the best chance for my vacant stool.
Will you promise not to tell Mr. Going of this-
until I go?  And will you assist me a little
hi completing my arrangements ?"
'Providing I can do so without breaking my
allegiance to my employers, yes."
" Of course, with that proviso, certainly,"
said the old man, intrenching himself behind
a thick cloud of smoke.
- Though, naturally, there is no doubt but
that iy duty to my principals would not inter-
fere with any thing that you could desire of
aie."
Naturally, no doubt," corroborated Martin
Bates, looking up at the ceiling. "And what
is imore, I will teach you so much of my pres-
eat duties as will make it convenient for Mr.
Going to dispense with my services at any
moment. This will almost insure your suc-
ceeding mie, for no one else will be capable of
stepping into my place. after I have quietly
prepared you for it."
" I don't like that," answered  Montant,
uneasily. " It will look as if I had been in-
triguing and planning selfishly for my advance-
ne" t.''
Not at all," answered the cashier, imupa-
tiently. " You are not so slow a man as to
hesitate at tritles like this when your success
in life is in your own hands."
But it goes against my grain, and with all
thanks to you, I shall not attempt to force Mr.
Going into appointing nme to a placesof extra-
ordinary trust and responsibility."
Well, then, he must do the best he can
after I have gone. I merely tried to save hlii1
any inconvenience, when I shall have left hint
suddenly.
"Why not give him notice now ?" said our
hero. puzzled and annoyed.
" Because I do not wish to be cross-ques-
tioned and pressed to stay, or have this folly
of my marriage discovered, and so be turned
imto the laughing-stock of the office, and per-
haps half the town."
" Is the gi willing ?"
"Yes; but she is surrounded by a vaga-
bondset of friends or relatives, or perhaps
lovers. Among them all I expect to have a
hard mine of it. Yet, if she does not change
her m   aindl intend to run off with her in spite
ofo them  ill, and that is another vital reason
for keeping the matter quiet. You know that
these Italians are a spying, treacherous set.
Already the suspect me of worse intentions
than I deserve, and should they hear, as well
they might, that 1 had given Mr. Going notice,
they might place her out of my reach."
"And what do yotu want mle to do for you?",
"Have a carriage ready for meto-morrow.
night, at twelve o'clock, in ChathaniSquare.
I mean to ask them honorably for her hand;
but if they refuse to let her go, she will steal
out of the house and joine in. After I find
'O1, I would like you to see tao off at the sta-
tiu, take a letter frona ueto Mr. Goiig, amd

execute a few trifling commissions for me after
I have gone."
The old man's plan was so immediate and
imperative that his hearer was rather bewil-
dered. Something urged him to accept the
service asked of him. His own ways had al-
ways been, as he meant they always should
be, open and straightforward, and this queer,
almost insane freak of the trusted cashier
alarmed him. He scanned the old man's face
closely. Martin's eyes were unsteady ; he had
laid down his cigar and was chewing tobacco,
rolling his quid from side to side, never leav-
ing it on either the Credit or Debit side, and
our hero thought to himself, is money com-
ing into the house, or is money going out of it?
Although Martin Bates, thirty years in the
service, and considered the most honest of old
souls, could not be really suspected of embez-
zing money, yet he thought that. question
worthy of after-consideration, and not to be
dogmatically dismissed.
-This love of yours seems half ridiculous,
ialf fabulous, Mr. Bates," he said, hiding his
uneasiness under a smile; "but as long as it
exists, I do not wonder at the queer manner
in which you mean to carry out your plans for
happiness. I will be there to-morrow, with
the carriage. Midnight-to-morrow-say at
the southeast corner, where Chatham Street
runs into Chatham Square."
"Thank you. .And you will swear upon the
Bible that you will not breathe a word of this
to Mr. Going or any one else. Swear that
here, and now, if you please."
There was something over-anxious in his
tone, as if' it had suddenly occurred to hini
that he should have sworn in his confidant be-
fore he entrusted him with so many secrets.
The other thought a moment, and then
said:-
"Mr. Bates I am a queer fellow I can only
promise tis with a-reservation, which amounts
to this. I will give you my word as a gentle-
man to keep this matter secret unless my duty
to Mr. Going demands otherwise.. This clause
is so harmless that I hope it will pass as a
mere eccentricity, for I can solemnly assure
you that I have po doubt that what you are
doing is merely something very odd. And
nothing can be imagined likely to happen be-
tween this and to-morrow that would absolve
me from my promise."
"Of course not," said Martin Bates.
"'Then with that proviso, I here give you
my hand and my word as a gentleman."
" Done," said Martin Bates, and they shook
hands..
"And now, as the clock has struck nine, I
must go and prepare for the party at r.
Going's. You are not coming?" asked our
hero.
" to, I sent a regret," replied the other, and
so they parted.
When the old man was left to himself his
ihoe changed. With a grim look he asked
himself,
-- Have I made another blunder to-night ?"


FACT.

GOING AND SON.

i
S i

CHAPTER II.
DEBIT AND CREDIT.
"Screw your courage to the sticking point, and
we'i not tail."-MACBETH.
A rrER our hero had polished a little, he
made the best of his way to Mr. Going's house
in Fifth Avenue.  He walked steadily and
firmly, every step, midicating a determined
state of mind, and surely iv was not child's
play which occupied him. He had resolved
upon undertaking a dangerous task. Danger-
ens, because it might bring him in the way of
committing great injustice to another, and,
perhaps evil consequences to himself should
he prove to be in error. He ran the risk of
losing the respect and confidence of his em-
ployers, perhaps of ruining his prospects for
life. He might be misunderstood and blamed
for over-zealousness, so alienating his best
friends or even accused of intent to criminate
old Martin Bates from a selfish motive.
Yet lie wavered not an instant; had his life
been the stake he would have proceeded as
directly as he now walked straight to Mr.
Goimg's house, thinking, as he walked of the
best method (f accomplishing his object.
Ile reached the house. A carpet was laid
from the door to the curb-stone, that the daimty
feet of the ladies might tread upon soft dry
ground. On either side stood an uncouth as-
semblage of the curious poor, anxious for a
giupse at the great people.  Seamstresses
were theme watching their own work as it
squeezed out of the carriages, swept past, and
vanished within the door. Beggars eyed the
vision of luxury with hungry eyes, wondering
how many loaves of bread this dress or the
one yonder would buy. Paupers where there
who had once been actors in Vanity Fair, and
had now sunk to be mere envious spectators
of the gay scene. And the flare of the light
within shone queerly upon that crowd, and
the music of the dance broke upon their ears
like a mockery.
Our hero entered, and after a short sojourn
in the gentlemen's dressing-room, came into
the parlor. Miss Jessie, as charming as ever,
was, as usual surrounded by the proper multi.
tude of admirers. Mr. Faro had just danced
with her, and now relinquished his fair partner
to Mr. Wheeler, with a suicidal sigh. She
scarcely found time to welcome Ernest,. and,
alter a few common-place remarks, ignored
him completely.  The deferential crowd of
admirers saw at once that he was not in high
favor with the goddess, and tried hard to
look as if they did not consider the new-comer
a donkey and a dunce from principle.
Before long our hero found an opportunity
to dance a waltz with her.
""Miss Going," lie said in her ear, "I must
have a few words with you this evening, and
as you are very much in demand, I would
suggest that you dance the next quadrille with
me, to give me an opportunity."
"Very well, Mr. Montaut, only don't let it
be any thing serious I1 don't heel in the humor
for it."

"As you wish," he answered, "then we
shall not dance the next quadrille."
" Why, yes, we will," cried the young girl.
"To be sure, I will be most happy, Mr. Mon.
tant," so saying she bowed her readiness to
-nish the dance with Mr. Fate, who stood'by,
waiting in delicious suspense as if he looked
for an appointment in the seventh heaven.
Montant bit his lips as ha turned away.
" Humor or no-humor," he muttered, "I mean
to say a word or two which she may forget if
she can."
The quadrille came. Miss Jessie seemed un-
conscious of her partner, except as an auxiliary
machine in going through the figures. In
one of the pauses of the dance, he whispered
to her,-
" Do you remember a promise which you
exacted from me some months ago in this very
room ?"
She looked at him with apparently'genuine
inquisitiveness.
" A promise,".he continued, gravely, " that I
would devote myself, both unfluicingly and
loyally, to-"
" Don't speak so loud," she interposed, evi-
dently ill-pleased with the subject. " I do re-
member some remarks I made. And what
can have occurred to rerr ind you of them ?"
" I have not ecme to bother you wih such
matters," answered our heroic urtly, "I only
wish to exact a promise from you ii return."
She looked up at him with arch wonder.
Fascinated as usual in her presence, his voice
trembled tomrewhat as he continued,-
"Promise me that if from to-night my re-
lations wih your father and brother should-
change; if I should be blamed, and accused
of apparently unwarranted acts, you will never
doubt me; but believe me, that what 1 do,
is the inspiration of my duty to them, and the
conscientious fulfillment of my promise to you,
that I would not desert them  i an hour of
danger even at my own peil."I
The figures of the dance separated them be-
fore she could reply; but although she flirted
with the irrepressible Mr. Faro, and the grace-
ful Mr. Wheeler. she seemed thoughtful and
preoccupied. When they paused again, she
said, all too lightly to please him,- .
" Certainly, I will promise, and I am quite
sure that what you do will be all right. But
won't you tell me what is this mysterious
transaction that makes you look as solemn as
an owl?"
" No," he replied, disappointed at her flip-
pant reply, "I am sorry that I can not satisfy
your curiosity about business matters. I re-
commend you to dismiss the subject from your
mind. Forget that I mentioned it at all."
" I hope for your-for our sakes, that the
matter is not as serious as you seem to think
it is. Are you certain that it is not a fancied
danger only ?  'There was some anxiety
expressed im the last sentence, and she looked
earnestly at him for a moment. Yet he was
not satisfied, and only replied, dryly,-
oIn all probability, onmly a fancied danger.
The dance having ended, he left her abruptly',
but Fare and Mr. Wheeler and their attendant
cherubs in swallow-tailed coats, remarked that

Miss Going seemed to have suddenly lost her
exuberant spirits to a noticeable degree. Par-
ticularly when, after supper, she noticed her
brother stealing away from the room and
leaving the house in company with Ernest
Montant, she utterly ruined their happiness by
absent-mindedness, and preoccupation, so that
they began to consider the propriety of ex-
tinguishing their bright lights by gracefully
committing suicide.
" Are you ready to stay up all night, Wal-
ter ?" said Montant, when they reached the
sidewalk.
"I have a bottle of brandy, a brace of pis-
tols, and plenty of cigars," was the conclusive
answer.
" Then let us take a carriage."
Reader, have you a correct idea of a night-
owl? If not, you have only to hail a hack in
New York at midnight, and, something will
approach you which would furnish an appro-
priate triumphal chariot for King Plague, were
Death to hold a carnival procession. With
two skeletons for horses, with two yellow
struggling lamps, like wanton, distempered
eyes, with a drunken heap of rags on the
box for a driver, with an unwholesome noise
like the death-rattle of.a cholera patient, with
the dank odor of the grave filling the interior,
and the lining of the seats spotted like the
eruptive ,stage of, the small-pox; thus will it
lurch and totter up to you, one of a whole
legion, not one of which dares to stir out in
the light of day, but which prowl about at
night only. This is a night-owl.
Directions were given to the driver, and the
two gentlemen were soon on their way rat-
tling along as fast as they could be expected
under the circumstances.
'- And now," said Walter _Going, "may I
ask where we are bound to?"
'- To your office."
" I must confess. Ernie," said Walter, after
a pace, "I think it is best that you should tell
me all about the circumstances which have
brought about this strange behavior of yours.
You are not the man to act in this way with-
out good reasons, or I would not have followed
you to-night. What do you propose to do at
the office ?"
" Look over the books," replied lie, quietly.
" Whom do you suspect?" asked Walter,
plumply.
"I take the responsibility of this little ex-
pedition, and you agreed to go with me as a
personal favor only, so you can not insist upon
an answer. I am not sure of my case, not at
all sure, and I run a risk which appears more
and more dangerous as I approach it nearer,{
and full of threatening consequence's."
'. And why not share the responsibility ? If
you advise with me, if we work together, then
no blame can attach to you. I think you owe
it to yourself to avoid this risk if possible."
"I am quite sensible of all you say," replied
the other, gravely. "iBut I have given my
word of honor as a gentleman, not to reveal
the secret which has led to my suspicions,
unless my duty to your house demanded it.
eo you see becomes my dity to see with my
On eyes whether the secret is to be revealed

44

or not, and for this reason I have called you
out to-night, and this it is which forbids my
sharing the responsibility."
Walter could not answer this, and his com-
panion vouchsafed no further explanation.
As the old coach' rumbled noisily through the
streets he fell into a brown study. His whole
life passed in review before him, and lie real-
ized his present position with painful accuracy.
He had decided upon a bold lead, and he knew
full well that this mysterious way of going
about it would tell heavily against him should
he prove to be mistaken.
"If Mr. Going hears of it, he will not doubt
my honesty of purpose, but he will come to
the conclusion that I am a very young and
very foolish boy, who, in future, had better
accustom himself not to look beyond his daily
duties Now I do hate to be considered a busy
body and a spyi And as for Miss Jessie, if
she hears of it, she will smile with a mixture
of good-nature and pity, and will never respect
me."
He thought bitterly of what lie had to ex-
pect, and how little the purity of his motives
would help or excuse him.
however," he thought again, " there is
one woman who will not misunderstand me."
Josephine Van Strom was in his mind. He
had not seen her for some weeks, for his dirdu-
ous duties at the office had not permitted him
to make a trip to Massachusetts, where John
Van Strom, Bella, and Josephine had settled
soon after old Van Strom's death. They had
been in constant correspondence, and our hero
was comforting himself by recalling some of
the glowing words in which she had assured
him of her unbounded love for him, when the
carriage stopped opposite the tall door, over
which the gilded sign " Going &amp; Son," was
just distinguishable in the doubtful light of the
street lamps.
Meanwhile, all was dark and still in the of-
fice. The desk of the old cashier, with its
high stool, was standing massive and silent,
and if a few little mice were about, they must
have already caught the sound of approaching
footsteps and have scampered away, for when
the gentlemen entered there was not a sound
in the room.
The bronze figure of "Justice" holding the
scales out at arm's length on Martin's inkstand,
had gone to rest long ago, if Justice ever sleeps.
Perhaps she had laid down the scales and
sword, tired of holding them all day long, and
slept with her head resting on them. Perhaps
there was a soul in the little bronze, and when
darkness prevailed, who knows but what the
little image told stories to the mice, describing
how Martin Bites rolled his tobacco from one
side of his capacious mouth to the other, as
he wrote "debit," or "credit" in the books, and
how she had watched him many years, and
knew him better than any one else, and could
tell a secret, oh, a deep secret, only he was
such an old friend, she could not betray him
unless-unless-
But when thme deer creaked and two men
entered, 'when the gas was lighted and the twvo
men w-ent to work at something which re-
quired books from the safe, and books from the

45

z


GOING AND SON.

''
t t E
i"
t
f
{t '  j  ,
i    , dt
f
i
r
e      1       '
f  .         '
'  _;
.          ,
_ t  'f
t
"      :
f
gg i 4  {
-a 1
ft
.  ff '
.  I' ' f
i;
f
;,
'tf
i
r
r
i
4 :
i
.  ,
_
f        }
f
t"
,
#
'
_  _
v      '
+ q         ;,
r              f
g            i
_

private office, and books from old Martin's desk,
the little figure of Justice was standing up and
holding out her scales vigorously, with a strange
light in her bronze eyes, which shone through
the bandage. But there seemed a vigor in the
old attitude, and perhaps she would have liked
to say: " He is a friend, an old friend of mine.
I have known him thirty years; but let him be
judged, let him be judged, whoever he may be."
And the flicker of the light danced up and
down the polished wainscoting, and peeped
into the corners of the room. The mice watched
the two men from their hiples while they
ciphered, and reckoned. and calculated, and
compared Martin Bates's accounts, while Jus-
tice overlooked the whole proceeding with great
interest.
So they sat and worked away, talking in
whispers, scribbling and checking off, while
the office clock ticked itself to one o'clock,
which it struck so loudly as to startle them for
a moment, and then to two o'clock which star-
tled them twice more.
Ernest Montant's face was calm, and did not
express the agitation of his mind. He knew full
well what was making Walter bite his lips and
frown ; he knew why Walter looked pale, and
worked in a nervous, fidgety manner. le
knew how a true man feels when he must play
the part of a sneak and a spy, for his own
self-respect was fast leaving him over that
night's occupation.
" This book will be the last," said he, when
the hands of the clock had moved far on the
road to three o'clock. " If we find all correct
here, as in the others, I will desist."
" You'd better," said Walter Going, in a
tone of mingled reproach and weariness. "This
whole business puts you in a false light. It
was wrong and unwarrantable for you to take
all this upon yourself!"
It was our hero's turn to grow pale-pale as
death.
After all, he had not realized how bitter, how
very bitter would be his reward, should all be
found correct, nor how soon he would begin to
receive it.
'Your suspicions-" continued Walter Going
without looking at him.
" That term, is not a just one," interrupted
the other, hoarsely. " You don't know that I
harbored any, and, indeed, unless' the exami-
nation of these books should warrant it, which
it seems they do not, I should harbor no sus-
picion of any one. I merely ask you to look
over them, and my reasons for doing so are my
own and mine only. This was our bargain be-
fore we left the house."
" Well; and now that we are as certain of
his innocence as I have been from the begin-
ning, are you going to justify yourself in my
eyes at least. by telling me all about it."
" I do not break my word quite so easily as
that." he replied, "I only ask you now to
finish this work, and then  you may think
what you please. Here is the last hook."
Walter was checking off the figures as they
were called off to him in an undertone, and
yawning ill-temnperedly over the task, when,
all at once, he opened his eyes wider, ie did
not check off that figure. No; how was that ?

Could they believe their eyes ? Yes, here, at
last Martin Bates had made afalse and fraudu-
lent entry!/
They looked at each other in dumb amaze.
meant for a moment. The color rose to their
cheeks as if they blushed at the manner in
which they had made this discovery, and the
little bronze Justice held out her scales in a
commanding manner, seeming ready to uplift
her sword and cry aloud for judgment.
Are you asleep, Martin Bates, dreaming of
your Italian bride with whom you are to leave
the country to-morrow for a retreat of love
and luxury. and all with stolen money?  Or
does a vision trouble your sleep, showing you
two men with flashing eyes and busy pens
sitting at your desk until the clock strikes five
-until it strikes six'? Do you notice that one
of them has a small piece of paper by his side
on which he occasionly notes a few figures?
They increase slowly, those figures. Each one
is the result of a long calculation; but they
increase too  rapidly for your sake, Martin
Bates, for they sum up already to thirty thou.
sand! thirty thousand dollars, Martin Bales;
Are not the figures engraven upon your heart.
written deep into its tenderest flesh with " red-
hot pen, never to be erased, but to bear
witness against you before the tribunal of God ?
"I think that is all," says Montant, in a
scarcely audible whisper, as the clock strikes
six, and wiping his forehead--
"I think that is all," corroborates Walter
Going, mechanically, and covers his face with
his hands. " And now," he added, without
altering his position, "now, are you disposed
to tell me all?"
"Now," replied Ernest, "my duty compels
me to give you a full statement, and I an ab-
solved from my promise of secrecy."
" Poor fellow," said Walter Going. feelingly.
"Thirty years in the house, and a defaulter.
I think that if we were to look back through
the books, we should discover that this has
been going on for years !"
"It is for you to decide whether an account-
ant shall be employed for that purpose.'
" Let us go and tell my father. It will he
hard to make him believe it. Upon my word
I expect him to disbelieve his eyes rather than
to distrust old Bates."
" And yet he must face the truth. As for
me, by the living God, I wish I had been mis-
taken," said Montant, solemnly.
Walter Going extended his hand, which was
taken warmlv by the other, and a ray of satis.
faction overspread the face of our hero. Yet
that feeling could not triumph at the expense
of another's guilt and consequent inisery, and
when they drove back to Fifth Avenue, they
were a sad and silent pair.
"I am tired and sleepy and as stupid as a
fish," said Walter, as they alighted. " Here it
is broad daylight and we have been dancing
and cyphering all night. I say, a refreshing
trip down town is just the thing after a party,
isn't it, especially when it leads to such de-
lightful discoveries?"
" Yet you must listen to my story," said
Ernest, for we have no time to lose m
sleep."

Walter went up stairs and aroused his
father, and while the old gentleman was dress.
ing, the young men refreshed themselves, so
that it was still early in the morning when the
three met in the library.
Mr. Going's astonishment and dismay were
not demonstrative but most painful to the un-
willing informers.
" At my age," said the old gentleman finally,
in a low voice, evidently much moved, "at my
age, boys, a man is not adapted to receive les.
sons in the school of life. That Martin Bates
should be a scoundrel disproves all my knowl-
edge and experience. His motives I can not
divine, his hypocrisy I can not fathom, his
whole character has become a myth, and yet I
have known him thirty years lIf he wanted
money, even large sums, I would have lent it
to him  on  his word   alone. Why could
he not borrow, then, even if he never repaid
mie? That, though bad enough, would not
have amounted to crime, for which I eaot
prosecute hin!"
So true it is that thousands might avoid
crime, for in nearly every case ,honest and
open means would secure for them what they
so much desire.
Surely, if an employer have sufficient conti-
dence in a clerk, to put him in a position where
there is a possibility for theft to a large
amount, he would be willing to lend a smaller
amount to his employee to save him from the
temptation of stealing.
And then our hero told the partners all
he had learned from Martin Bates's own lips
the night before at dinner, the love athir with
the Italian girl included.  He went into all
the particulars of this last item, concluding
with his  appointment with   a carriage in
Clathan Square.
"It may seem  unjust to him," he added,
"to tell all his personal secrets; but I have no
choice in the matter, for I suppose this girl
must be arrested too. She may have the
money, which imay thus be recovered."
Mr Going nodded assent.
This morning, at the office, he is to tell
me whether he has been able to obtain her
family's consent to the marriage. If not, I
must, of course, be on hand with the carriage,
and we will catch them both at once. In the
aiean time, of course, you know best how to
prevent any further theft, during to-day. I
must acknowledge that I think lie intended to
add to his plunder before leaving; but good
fortniie--
"Or rather your remarkable energy, fore-
siht, and courage," cried Mr. Going. "Why,
but for you, Heaven only knows to what ex-
tent this might have gone."
ir. Going," said  Montant, gravely, "I
have been playing the part of a detective
policeman, and can assure you that my boyish
admiration for the pursuit has been entirely
tone away by this night's work. I would not
steal my way into a man's confidence, and
then, saving myself from n'rral perjury only
ba mental hair's breadth, betray him to the
rerbution lhe merited, no, not .for all the
rih eo h world I"
"Ad yet you have done your duty!" cried

Mr. Going. "How can I reward you for all
this?"
" Dont speak to me of reward," answered
the young man, quickly. "For such work as
last night's, I don't know of any."
"Will you accept the position of head-
cashier ? I offer it to you. Don't start. I do
so, not only because I want to pay you; but
because I am convinced that it is important
for me to retain your services in a higher
place." The old gentleman, seeing that Ernest
had colored crimson, arose and gave him his
hand, saying, as he lid so,-
As long as I live, I shall not forget what
you have done. I know that no desire of sup-
planting him has prompted you. I know that
no consideration save your warm attachnient
to us all, could have induced you to run the
risk which you did, so I want no overstrained
sensitiveness, when I offer you this well-
(aried advanceiment. Had Martin Bates died
an honest man, last night, and better it had
been for hiim, I would have selected you as his
successor, just the same."
Montant shook his head.  The pride which
drove the bright color to his face at first
was melted by the kind words just chronicled;
but he answered decisively,-.
I aii very grateful, and under other cir-
cumostances should be proud and happy at this
distinction. As matters stand I ask you as a
great favor to allow me to remain at my pre-
sent employment until the impressions of this
night have left niy heart, if they ever will."
As you wish, of course," - answered Mr.
Going, much disappointed, and the subject
dropped.
Our   hero  concluded  his narrative by
showing in a perfectly cool and impassionate
manner, that a man who has been drummed
out of the British army, car not, as a rule, be
trusted implicitly and of course, in the narrative,
the name of Judge Eben Bates of Massachusetta
was mentioned.
iHere Walter became interested in the con.
templation of the sidewalk, just -beneath the
library window.
" You know this Judge Bates, don't you,
Walter?" asked his father.
" Yes, sir," was the laconic reply; and Walter
began to count the bricks in the opposite
house.
" Has he not a daughter, a very charming
girl. whom you once pointed out to me in Bos-
ton ?
Yes, sir."
" They are undoubtedly very respectable
people, and this disgrace will be very hard on
them. Very hard. indeed, on them," mused the
kind-hearted old gentleman. In a moment or
two he looked ip, and said,-
"Boys, we will keep this thing quiet."
" That is what I thought best. sir," said
Walter, still looking out of the window.,
" If he gives up what he may have left of
the thirty thousand dollars, we will let him
off and end the matter, without a public
show."
" Very good idea, sir," said Walter. and then
they consulted as to the best means of accoma-
plishing this end.

11   ,
'21t4
r 2'
Ej jjj
iI yji
F1

46

FACT.

47y

i


FACT.

f i
e
i
r
t
,f
. t
+ 1,
i
t
i                x
(             S
4
t       t
h
.s           $
'  s i,    v
t
F
C  i
4,    F
. t
i
yi   f
t
f i,'
,:
,

Walter Going and Ernest Montant drove
down to the office together, leaving Mr. Geing
at home. During the whole of the preceding
evening, while engaged in overhauling old
Martin's books, neither of them had mentioned
Judge Bates or his daughter whom Walter
"knew;" but now they spoke of no one else
but this Miss Bates, whom Walter now called
Bessy, until the carriage stopped at the office
door.
They entered the outer office; there stood
old Martin Bates already at his desk, and,
confronting him, was the little bronze figure,
holding her scales in his very face. Truly,
Justice had not slept that night.
CHAPTER III.
MR. STUMP.
"Read this and know I know your worthiness."
KING HENRY V.
" MR. WALTER GOING sends word that he
would like to see you in the private office,
sir."
So spoke one of the younger clerks to Martin
Bates, and the summons was immediately
obeyed by the old cashier. When he entered,
he found our hero and another gentleman, with
his younger principal. Walter immediately
arose in a nervous manner, closed the door, and
bolted it.
" Let me introduce Mr. Stump to you, Mr.
Bates."  Whereupon the stranger said, "your
most obedient, sir." He was short, quite fat,
red-faced, clean shaved, and wore his red hair
closely cropped His eyes were small; but
exceedingly sharp, and constantly wandering
from one object to another; he was carefully,
but vulgarly dressed, and   although  his
round face suggested good-nature, with a ten-
dency to fun, his tout ensemble was decidedly
coarse.
"Your most obedient, sir," repeated Mr.
Stump, with emphasis, and took up a newspa
per, from behind which he amused himself
by taking a mental photograph of Mr. Bates.
"And now that we are all seated, Mr
Bates," said Walter Going, " and as there is no
body present who should not listen, let me as!
you at once: What did you do with the money?'
Martin Bates started, and his color changed
He looked from one to the other. bit his lips
and did not reply for a moment. Strange t4
say, there was no dismay, and but very littl
agitation manifest in his voice when he re
plied:-
"Fifteen thousand I can account for and yo
will not lose it. The other fifteen thousand i
a dead loss. I can not, will not say, how, o
where, even should torture be revived once
more for old-Martin Bates's especial benefit-
which would not surprise me in the least. A
for you, sir,' turning to our hero, "I am ver
much obliged to you for the part you have acted
and as for you, sir," accosting Mr. Stump, "
suppose I may consider myself your prisoner
and so ends the first scena of the last act

that great authentic tragedy called 'The Life of
Martin Bates."
Not until the last sentence did he evince any
emotion, seeming to attribute it all to his usual
ill-luck, but the last words were given with
indescribable bitterness.
" You are wonderful sharp, sir," interposA
Mr. Stump, after a pause. '"First, to know what
money Mr. Going' means, and second, to guess,
(and quite right tool) that it was this 'ere Mr.
Mountain which fetched you up with notorious
genius, and last of all to see right through my
swell clothes and reckernize the policeman I
And all as true as Gospel, sir ! You have stated
the case in fewer and couciser words than I
could myself."
"Has this Italian girl got possession of any
large sums?" asked Walter Going.
." Aha I" cried Bates, turning upon our hero
with a grim smile, "I see that my friend,
according to his word of honor given to me, has
favored you with the whole of my personal
history !"
Ernest felt the reproach, but said nothing.
"1I suppose" continued the old man, sardonic.
cally, " that any one having the faculty of con.
necting two ideas in his mind could name my
successor in the office ?I"
Montant thought as he turned away, (for
defense was useless) that even had lie ac-
cepted Mr. Going's offer of the head cashier's
desk, he would now have resigned it at any
cost. He felt that he could not have borne the
old man's sarcasm had he consented to profit
by his fall.
" I dare say," continued Bates, with biting
irony, " that there was a clause in that promise
upon honor, a loop-hole, through which my
highly honorable friend slipped while his ac-
commodating conscience acquitted him of per-
jury. Of course gentlemen can not break their
words of honor l How     fortunate that this
loop-hole existed ! He never thought of it_
until afterwards. Oh, no. 1e, did not mean
r to slip through it at the time he insisted upon
putting in that clause in which lie promised se.
crecy unless some danger to the firm should com-
pel him to break the trust. What danger has
f befallen the firm since eight o'clock yesterday
evening ?"
"'Mr. Bates," said our hero, with as much
composure as he could muster, "I did not say
k one word of what you confided to me, until
" after I had discovered the deficiency in the
. books. Mr. Going is my witness to this."
, All right, sir! It is of course very just
o  that a man's character should be picked to
e pieces, and his past history used to criminate
him before he has been tr.ed or even heard
upon the charges against him r"
u " We are ready to hear you now," said Wal-
s ter, " or we can send for my father, who pre-
r ferred not to meet you unless you desired to
e  speak to him."
- " No!t no 1" cried the old man, hastily. "Mr.
s Going has been very kind to me! I know that
y his heart is bleeding from this blow, for it is
I; a blow to an honest man to find that an old
I friend has become a villain. I would not se
;him now. I would not accept Ihis pity and
of forgiveness should he offer it to me, and if lhe

too has turned against me. I could not boor
the reproaches of the one who has for thirty
years been my only friend, besides your
lamented grandfather."
His voice quavered and broke down, he
made an effort to subdue his emotion, but
with a convulsive sob, it broke restraint, and
le hid his thee to conceal his tears.
"Come, come," said    Mr. Stump, good-
naturedly.
This Come, come," is quite a by-word with
the noble profession of detectives. It is in-
tended to express pity, and to make a show of
a soft heart, but its real meaning might be put
in these words:
"Caome, come, don't cry, for it's no use, and
I'm not to'be humbugged. Don't make any
disturbance or I'll handcuff you-don't waste
my valuable time    by making    a  scene.
That is quite played out with me, I have seen
it tried on too often."
All this lurks behind those little words, and
much depends upon the tone in which they
are said. If spoken in warning accents, and
rather stern, they portend prospects of club-
bing; but Mr. Stump had a good job on hand,
a job which was bound to pay him, hand-
somely, and he felt that he could afford to be
good-natured.  His "Come, come," might be
translated as follows :-
"My dear fellow, the circumstances sur-
rounding this melancholy event are very touch-
ing. They touch my pocket, and your feelings,
so cry away and lose my time so much as you
think proper."
"Has the Italian girl received large sums
asked Walter Going, again. after a pause, in-
tentionally disregarding the old man's dis-
tress.
"She has not," was the reply.
"Which statement is corporate by herself,"
corroborated Mr. Stumps, who had wasted time
on neither grammar nor dictionary.
"So you have arrested her, too ?" asked
Martin Bates, raising his head.
"Not at all, sirl" Why you hadn't ought to
think me so unpolite!I 1 only had a leetle
friendly chat with her this morning."
"Poor Simonetta!" sighed the ex-cashier.
"Poor what?" said   Mr. Stump.   "The
Eye-talian gal I know of goes by the name of
Net Mariner or Meriny, and lives near the
'Dirty Spoon,' in Cherry street, so it can't be
the same name"
It is the same one," said Martin Bates,
wearily. Her name is Maria Simonetta Marini,
and her father is an organ-grinder."
"I knowed he was a musical man," an-
swered Mr. Stump, somewhat puzzled " but
that Net was christened all what your call her,
I didn't know. Well she swears she has no
money, and cries because somebody won't
let her marry you. She's a pretty girl, that
Net!"
While rattling away, Mr. Stump has his
sharp eyes fastened on Martin's face. The
old man'seemed rapidly sinking into a state of
apathy; Montant could not bear to look at
him. Disappointed in love at the moment
ef apparent success, ruined in every sense ; his
only friends changed into prosecutors, this
4

was his situation is the world, the world that
had snarled at him all his life.
" And who has the fifteen thousand dollars,
which you say we can recover ?" asked Walter
Going.
" That Mr. Muller, who proposed to sell you
his farm in Hocus County. Do you remember
when he and Mr. Stilletto came here to lay the
project of forming a mining and manufacturing
company before you and your father ?"
Certainly."
" Well sir, I advanced August Muller fifteen
thousand dollars upon the Hobgoblin farm,
thinking it would be quickly sold for an enor-
mous sum, in which case I would have doubled
my money, and have repaid you the whole
thirty thousand dollars. You may believe
this-you may not. Every thing is immaterial
to me now l"
There was an utter despondency in his quiet
monotonous voice that carried conviction with
it.
" And the other fifteen thousand," said
Walter.
"I have answered that question before,"
said Martin,.doggedly. The other fifteen thou-
sand dollars were taken before I knew August
Muller, and it has simply gone-gone, forever,
sir. If you are wise you will buy that Hob-
goblin farm, and carry out August Muller's
projects. It will cost you but little more than
the lien you will have on it through the money
I stole from you. But you will make an im-
mense fortune out of it. This, gentlemen, is
all the confession I have to make. You have
lost fifteen thousand dollars through me, and
I am prepared to serve out the punishment
for my crime. The only favor Lask is never
to be confronted with Air. Going."
" And how have your books been kept for-
merly ?" asked Walter Going, with a dark look.
" We had no time last night to examine very
far back."
" Thirty thousand is all, sir," answered Mar-
tin Bates. "Of course, I can not expect you
to believe my word. I have believed gentle-
men's words, gentlemen, who were not felons,
and even then I have been deceived. Never-
theless, I repeat, that up to a very few years
ago, your books and cash were kept lion,
estly."
*      *      *      *      *
One of the results of the interview just de-
scribed, was that Ernest Montant felt very
blue and despondent, and he accused himself
bitterly to the junior partner.
" If my sense of duty is to be so exacting as
to turn me into a sneaking busybody, a spy
and general informer, and if this ismy nature,
I believe that earnest, straightforward villainy
would win me more respect."
" Perhaps you would have preferred the
whole thing to remain undiscovered, and to
have had another fifty added to this thirty
thousand dollars ?"
"You do not mean that question seriously,"
answered the other, "but I can assure you
that I would give much had I baffled him in
an open fight instead of such strategy as I have
employed against him."
"I will be honest with you," replied Walter

,r
,
,, ,
;'
.
;
,
F
4f

GOING AND SON.

48

49

!
,
3,
Y
4  i
r j
1 !
]
'


GOING AND SON.

ii 1t
$ 1  ,
Id I

Going, with a pleased expression. " I think
that, after the risk you have run, no one can
impugn your courage. From my own feelings,
which were none of the pleasantest, while we
were engaged in that night expedition, behind
the old man's back, I can believe that it was
as unpleasant as dangerous. We would not
have done it; but for our duty toward my
father, so let us comfort ourselves with the
result which shows its necessity."
Montant accepted this conclusion, for his
good sense forbade his giving way to over-
strained scruples ; but, this was another ex-
perience in life, and taught him that one's
best instincts may so clash with the highest
duties as to threaten our peace of mind like
the pangs of wounded conscience.
We shall again hear of Martin Bates, and per.
haps the old man may appear in a better light.
According to Mr. Going's express wishes,
his crime was kept quiet, and after the firm
had recovered what they could of the thirty
thousand dollars, he was allowed to leave the
city, to vanish, in fact, no one knowing where
he had gone, or expecting to see him again.
It will be remembered that Martin Bates,
according to his confession, had advanced fif-
teen thousand dollars to August Muller, taking
as security a transfer of the Iobgoblin farm in
Pocus township, county of Hocus, State of
New York.
"I shouldn't wonder if it was at Martin
Bates's suggestion, that Muller and Stilletto
first sought my services to induce you to buy
this farm," said Ernest to Walter, " and if he
then urged them, to call in person."
" Most likely," answered Walter, " for if
we had bought it, Bates would have got his
money back, and could have repaid us half
our loss. Or if Muller had allowed him to
double his money, he might have refunded the
whole amount. This is about what lie said
his intentions were, I believe. But what do
you suppose made him advance this money to
Muller in the first place ?"
"Muller is a very plausible man, and I have
no doubt that Bates thought he saw his way
plainly certain to bring him out of his difficul-
ties. I believe he honestly thought that lie
would double his last venture and then repay
the whole."
"So do I; and now we will try to get Mul-
ler to sign that farm over to us. I have just
received a note from Mr. Paradise, to whom
I sent the securities given to Martin Bates, in
which lie says that they are not in proper
shape; that we should have a trust-deed di-
rect from Muller. I think we will let Mr.
Stump pay a visit to our noble knight of the
red nose, who is probably not the most honest
man in the world, and see if we can not fright-
en him into refunding us the cash, instead of
saddling us with the property. If we get the
farm, I suppose we shall have to build a small
factory, and then we may work the thing to
advantage."
"I would rather lose the whole amount,
than enter upon the most expensive, and most
tantalizing of all business enterprises," saig
our hero, quickly. "And that is, buildind
a factory outside of your kegitimate businressl A

practical man, who works himself, and knows
his trade thoroughly, may, in a course of years,
see his shanty grow into a huge palace of la-
bor, for he is the soul of his shop, and his
shop may grow as the boy into manhood; but if
you want to ruin a commercial house, induce
them to undertake building a factory and go
into manufacturing without knowing any thing
about the business."
Walter said nothing. Never before had his
young friend offered advice or even volun-
teered an opinion upon business matters, so
he was the more astonished at this rapid
speech and the energy with which it was
enunciated. Though nothing further on the
subject was said at the time, he never forgot
it, and, in after years, saw the wisdom of Er.
nest Montant's opinion.
Mr. August Muller was inhaling the aroma
of his coffee, sipping a little now and then, and
convincing himself that his hand was not shak-
ing as he lifted the cup; though the cup cer-
tainly did shake violently.
His costume consisted of a dressing-gown
and smoking-cap, and he was smoking a long
pipe, with a tassel dangling from the stem,
precisely like that which ornamented the cen-
ter button of his smoking-cap. The philoso-
pher was pale this morning, and the seediness
of his garb did not misrepresent the state of
his health and spirits. "I must raise money,"
he soliloquized.  "Yes, money is the only
doctor that can cure my complaint, but when
you send for him lie don't come, having too
many patients on hand, I presume, and, when
he does come, he does not stay long enough
to do much good by his benign presence. This
is a very passable simile," he continued, much
pleased with himself. "I must write it down
somewhere. What a man is lost to thee, oh,
thou frivolous world, in August Muller ! Does
any one know    his talents?  Has he been
brought forward to fame and greatness as he
deserved?   No, he is allowed to sink lower
and lower into slow-killing poverty, and to
fade away. Yes, indeed, I am sick, dying! I
think half a glass of that fine-" he rises,
trembling, from his chair, and gazes eagerly
about the room. " I certainly think a glass or
two of bitter beer-they brew it quite drink-
able in Philadelphia now-Where is it? Has
my darling wife- " bere he smiled viciously,
'has she hidden the bottles? Not here-not
there." And after looking awhile longer, still
in vain, his face changes and he mutters some-
thing in which the emphasis falls somehow on
"darling wife," "a stout club," and "a good
thrashing," in strange connection. He was- is
terrupted by the ringing of the door-bell, and
stepped into the hall to admit the visitor.
"Mr. Miller, celebrated as the great philoso-
pher of the present risin' gineration ?" asked
a little, stout man, with a round, smooth face,
in a pleasant voice, as he removed his bran-
new beaver, and entered the front door.
"If you are not attempting to be witty, Sir,
you are perfectly correct," answered Muller,
grandly. "If you presume to attempt to ridi-
cule rne I scorn the effort and its author."
"Jokin' is jokin' and business is busmess,'
said the little man, soothingly. "Now I have

come on business and I would like to have a
talk with you. My name is Stump."
"Walk in, Mr. Stump, and partake of Au-
gust Muller's hospitality. Your offense is for-
given. August Muller is easily won over. It
is his nature to be easily won over."
They were seated in the little parlor, the
same in which, on a previous occasion, the
philosopher exhibited his educational prac-
tices in the persons of his children.
"Will you have a glass of bitter Philadel-
phia ale, Mr. Stump?" asked the host. "I do
not feel quite well this morning-and-I-"
" All right, Mr. Intellect, I'm agreeable,"
said Mr. Stump, who was surveying the room
and its owner with great curiosity. So the
ale was brought by the " darling wife," who
had red eyes, as though from recent weeping;
but August Muller looked at her with a con-
trolling energy, which had the effect of mak-
ing her quail and tremble and smile.
" That smile looks bad," thought Mr. Stump..
"That 'ere smile," lie repeated to himself with
great energy, "means brutal, beastly treat-
ment, and total subjugation of that female, by
means of physical force," which eloquent and
finely-rounded sentence pleased Mr. Stump to
that degree that lie smiled himself into the
best of humors.
After they had drank their beer, Mr. Stump
said:-
"1 might make a long introduction and I
feel some like it, because the words come to
mae somehow this imornin'. My head is clear,
just the same as yours, which is the result of
not having a drop to drink in twenty-four
hours or so, I suppose."
Mr. Stump was looking up at the ceiling
and Muller scanned his complacent face in vain
to see whether this was meant for sarcasm;
but-he answered curtly,-
" To business, if you are ready. My time
is- '
" Exactly." interposed Mr. Stump, pleasant-
ly. " Which reminds me of what my father
once told me. Father was a farmer, lived
away out back here in New York State. Well,
father always said, 'talking is talking, but
money buys the land,' and, speaking of-land,
tell rme what about that emoneyl which bought that
land, giner'lly known as the Hobgoblin frsn, sit-
ywasted in Hocus County, Empire State."
In speaking the last words, his whole man-
ner changed. His round, smiling face grew
rigid and hard; his little blinking eyes settled
Upon the other's face as if they would bore
into Iis skull; and he suddenly leaned forward
toward Mr. Muller, to watch him more closely.
The latter, alarmed by the sudden change and
approach, started back so as to nearly overturn
his chair; yet his countenance did not betray
any guilty fear, and, after recovering from the
slight Shock to his weakened nerves, he said,
with his old, sickly smile.-
"I can not discuss business matters of such
a nature with one, who though a guest at my
table, is a total stranger to me. Mr. Stump, I
must decline to answer until I have the pleas-
uire of 'making your acquaintance, as Mr. Toots
save in Dombey."'        --.
"Well, then, Mr. Miller, let me tell you the

50

FACT.

whole story in two words, and then we'll un-
derstand each other. Listen. There was an
old man, one Martin Bates-"
"I do not think that name is altogether
unfamiliar to my ears," murmured the
philosopher, with a twist of his head as
though he would be delighted to hear the sound
again.
"'Nor I," cried Mr. Stump, with a knowing
wink. " Well, this old man stole fifteen thou-
sand dollars from his employers."
" Dear me!" exclaimed Mr. Muller, raising
his eyebrows in apparent astonishment.
"And you knew it!" continued Mr. Stump,
with a friendly nod and smile.
"Sir, do not insult me I" said the philoso-
pher, "I knew nothing of the sort. August
Muller's name and reputation-
" Did not prevent him from selling to this
Martin Bates, Esquire, cashier of Messrs. Go-
ing &amp; Son, this 'ere Hobgoblin farm for fifteen
thousand dollars, when he, the said August
Miller, knew that said Martin Bates was poor,
and, consequently, could not have raised the
soap by honest and square dealing." This was
said with great determination and in a single
breath, after which he favored Mr. Muller with
some more friendly nods and knowing winks,
and waited for a reply.
Mr. Muller thought a long while and then
said:-
"I have studied the law, Mr. Stump, and
can inform you, with great certainty, that
should your design and intention be to indict
me for receiving stolen goods, or money fraud-
ulently obtained, or embezzled-should you
attempt to prove this you have no case! In
the language of the law, you have no case, sir."
"Now listen," resumed Mr. Stump. "After
August Miller has obtained this money, he dis-
covers that one of Mr. Going's clerks, Moun-
tain by name-"
" Montant," corrected the philosopher,
" Well, then, Mongtang," continued Mr.
Stump, "is a friend of a certain Mr. Staletoe."
" Mr. who ?" asked Muller, in genuine doubt.
" Mr. Staletoe, or Stealto, or-"
"I presume, Mr. Stump," said the philos-
opher, patronizingly, " that, in consequence of
the failure of those whose duty and privilege
it was to watch over the years of your youth,
to make your education a specialty, you are
rather unfinished, if I may so express it, in
your capacity for pronouncing foreign names.
I will help you. You mean Mr. Stilletto."
"Just so. Well, you and Mr. Stilletto tried
to get Mr. Mongtang to help you to persuade
the Goin's to buy this Hobgoblin farm, in
which case Mr. Bates would have got his
money back."
"And quite an honorable dealing it would
have been."
"Yes; but this young Mongtang didn't
quite see it in, that light, nor wouldn't have
nothing to do with you, nor would the Mes-
seoors Goin' see it in that light, nor would they
have nothing to do with you when you and
Staletoe went and tried it on with them at
their office."
Muller nodded.
" But," continued Mr. Stump, ".Martia~

t
4  }
S'
i r
f--:
f        t4
.i      bj          i.
;,
1 Y_
}
x )
,,*
1
s
- ..-_ _.


52

FACT.

GOING AND SON.

Isf
F        #;
4 F4

Bates, Esquire, cashier of Goin' &amp; Son, has never good security, you know, even in the
been caught."                                best cases."
Muller looked astonished, if not alarmed.    "I think that is all exactly so. But how
" He has been caught, diskivered, sacked, and can I help you ?"
banished from  the glorious land of the free   "By preventing them from prosecuting me,
and home of the brave," said Mr. Stump, which they certainly will be inclined to do,
much affected.                               when they find out that I only gave a second
"Well, sir-" commenced Mr. Muller.        mortgage for the money which    was stolen
" And now," concluded Mr. Stump, "I want from them."
you to make out a mortgage of fifteen thou-     I'll do it. They shan't prosecute you."
sand dollars to Goin' &amp; Son, immediately, for  " And you can coax them into buying the
value received by you per Martin Bates, upon  farm, perhaps ?"
the Hobgoblinfarm, Hocus County, in the      "I can do much. Mr. Walter and I have
township of Pocus, in the great State of New been on a little tear in the little town of York,
York.                                       and we'll go on another.   Two thousand, you
Muller had grown slightly pale. He eyed   said ?"
his opponent steadily for some moments, and    " That depends upon the price they pay,"
then said :-                                answered the philosopher. "They must build
" August Muller's dealings are straight and a factory and buy Stilletto's patents, and they
honorable; but he does not like to be harassed, may get rich by it."
or to have impediments cast in his way by the  "A  queer way to get rich, by spending a
littleness of his fellow-men.  My answer, fortune for the devil knows what," cried Mr.
therefore, is this: If the Messrs. Going &amp; Son  Stump, whose good sense showed him the
will promise they have   no case any way, truth instinctively.
you know, not to prosecute me for raising      "But they'll make a stock company of it I"
this money, I will at once execute the iort- cried the philosopher. triumphantly. "They'll
gage."                                      sell the shares, and will all get rich, and then
Mr. Stump asked, smilingly :-             the farm, and factory, and patents, and all
" Is the title clear ? Is there not a previous may go to-"
mortgage claim ?"                             Mr. Stump finished the sentence with a
"Let me ask you a question first," said Mr. knowing grin.
Muller, suddenly assuming a sharp, quick tone,  "And. now, let us calculate to see hew
and without wasting his usual volume of words, much you can make at the best or worst
youu are a police officer ?"               August Muller," said the philosopher, resun1.
aRight,a py boy," said Mr. Stump.  "My   ing his flowery rhetoric, "thy star is in the
profession is that of a detective, and my home  ascendant. Over the hills and valleys of the
is in Mulberry street."                     Hobgoblin farm it shall rise to the zenith, and
"Then I can speak openly to you',"       there remain, a celestial effigy of thine own
"That you    may," rejoined  Mr. Stump, terrestrial luster, for all time to come. Amen."
pleasantly.                                    "That's what I say, old feller," quoth Mr.
"You do not object to making a penny ?'' Stu m   ap, nd they began to cipher.
asked Mr. Muller, coaxingly.                  They ciphered away while their victims did
"My oath of office does not compel me to  not dream  it possible for a detective police
starve a family of eight to death, on a salary officer to join hands with crime, and give ithe
of twelve hundred dollars a year, and buy   protection of his shield to the swindler. And
good clothes besides," admitted Mr. Stump, Mr. Stump is not alone, in Mulberry street.
frankly.                                     He has many associates who do not intend
" Hlow would you like to make a thousand  to starve their families on twelve hundred
or so'?"                                    dollars a year. And yet, the newspapers are
" Pennies !" retorted Mr. Stump. scornfully. beginning to inform the tax-payers, and the
" Dollars," replied Muller, with  a proud  public generally, that our police excel the Eu.
wave of his hand.                           ropean civil guardians, and that the Metropoli
" I never lie, unless it is necessary, in busi- tan force is composed of as able and honest
ness," replied the detective. "I like to. make a body of men, as can be found anywhere.
a thousand dollars. I like to make two thou-
sand just exactly twice as well as one thousand,
which is, according' to 'rithmetic, as I learned
it at public school, when I used to got licked            CHAPTER IV.
outrajus 'cause my old man was opposed to
the schoolmaster in politics."
"Well, it may be two," said Mr. Muller,                LIGHT AND SHADE.
"and here is the case we must fix up together.                                   .
There is a first-mortgage on the Hobgoblun      "Peor and content is rich and rich enonh;
farm, and Martin Bates only holds a second       But riches atnelessiseas p oros winter,
farniTo hiuo that ever tears he shall be pom."
lien; understand ?"                                                           OruMto.
"Yes, sir." answered Mr. Stump, who had
now, regained his natural insinuating polite-  WE must pass rapidly over a period of several
ness, while Muller directed the conference.  months, and will tind our friends, the Going,
" This being the case, it is much better that not only established in their new country
Going &amp; Bon should buy the farm ount atnd ouit, heuso; but long accustomed to it and thor
than to hold a second lien upon it, whith is oughnly attached to the charms of the Priory.

53

Our hero had led a steady life, and devoted.
himself to business more assiduously than ever
ir. Going had not again asked him to accept
the vacated post of Martin Bates, neither had
he appointtd any other clerk to fulfill its duties.
He and Walter changed their business habits
Nine o'clock saw them at their office, and one
of them, generally Walter, staid until five, and
even later, before returning to the Priory,
which could be reached in less than an hour
by the railroad, not too far to go and come
every day. Walter, with many a sigh and
scowl, gradually fell into these regular habits
of work, and it was principally he, assisted
heartily by our hero, who performed the duties
of head-cashier.
The old gentleman's face grew care-worn,
and his son displayed an energy, born of grave
necessity, for the house was laboring through
a period of heavy losses and great expenditure.
Disaster crowded in from all sides, while the
ready cash they could procure was steadily
absorbed in a new enterprise of such magni-
tude that the solvency of the house depended
upon its ultimate success.
Messrs. Going &amp; Son had bought the Hob-
goblin farm in Hocus County, township of
Pocus. They had bought Stilletto's patents
and had almost completed a large factory. The
construction of this factory had already cost
four times the original estimate, and was still
only a huge bill of expense; but the prospect-
ive profits were--unprecedented.
And for this, they had neglected their legit-
imate, safe business, almost ontire4y. One of
the most respectable houses in the city, they
had been inveigled into this wild scheme by
such men as Stilletto, Muller, and Stump, and
only one man, and lie too young to be heeded,
had protested against it. When the transac.
tion was completed, Ernest Montant felt that he
had no object left, but to do hi~s share toward
weathering the storm he had so -clearly fore-
seeB.
But now we find the family enjoying a day of
rest, a glorious September Sunday, at the
Priory.
Good luck to you, Mr. Going, presiding over
your guests' entertainment. The golden sun
streaming in at the bow window and shedding
lus or around your venerable silvered head the
while. The gracious spirit of hospitality is en-
t ironed upon your forehead ; kindliness and
god-willto all men shine in your eyes, as you
survey the good gifts before you, for which you
have just thanked God with a few simple, but
heart-felt words of grace.
As his eves wander with satisfaction over
the shining 'plate and sparkling glasses, they
send a glance of recognition to each decanter,
holding different colored wines, glowing in the
light oftthe September sun, that originally
gave thr growth and warmth and strength
while yet in the bosom of their beautiful
nether, the grape. But his eyes rest upon
the fairer face of his daughter, at the opposite
end of the table, and they exchange a look of
love and affection, in which the soul comes
forh and gives a new expression to his face.
A, Ms5 Jeasie, may it be many happy years

before your father's chair stand empty in your
sight i
Mr. Fatman, the banker, is here, apparently
glorying in his Falstatllan proportions, for he
is in a good humor. A dozen tiInesthis morn-
ing has lie repeated that the Priory is a "pala-
tial residence, truly a palatial residence, Mr.
Going," and then, to himself, that he would
really like to own the Priory, just as if lie did
not consider it quite beyond the range of
possibility that he should own it some day 1
Mr. Paradise, the hunchbacked lawyer, was
also present. His Mephistophelean face wore
an expression of epicurian satisfaction, and his
remarks were almost polite.
Walter Going twisted his long whiskers and
signified his physical happiness by sipping his
wine with extra gusto and telling stories of
racing, boxing, and hunting, until Miss Jessie
begged to be informed if lie knew of no sub-
ject more generally interesting.
Qn either side of Miss Going, sat Mr. Faro
and Ernest Montant, but to-day she favored
the latter so markedly that Mr. Faro was
dumb, and wondered in his inmost soul if he
were ever to smile again.
Mrs. Fatman, late the baker's daughter, was
the only lady present besides Miss Jessie.
The dinner went off pleasantly, and the
ladies retired, later than is usual, for Miss
Jessie enjoyed sitting with her father and
brother while they were smoking, and as for
Mrs. Fatman, she became accustomed to man's
vices ong ago. Finally the two ladies arose
and were followed by our hero, who had re-
ceived notice of a prospective walk im the
garden with Miss Jessie, and by Mr. Faro,
who had determined to revenge himself by
withdrawing his superb attentions from Jessie,
and flirting with Mirs. Fatman.
Thus Mr. Paradise and Mr. Fatman were
left alone with Going aiid Son. These two
were among the few of the mercantile world
who knew of Martin Bates's embezzlement, arid
of his sudden disappearance.
" What has become of him any way ?" asked
Mr. Fatman.
" At last accounts, and those reached me
only casually, he had gone to Massachusetts
on a visit to his brother, Judge Bates," replied
Mr. Going.
"I never understood that fellow," said Mr.
Fatman.
" I understand him very well," said the
'hunchback, tersely.
" Then you are wiser than I," growled Mr.
Fatman.
"Which is neither improbable nor very
complimentary," replied Mr. Paradise. " From
their profession, lawyers are accustomed to
look a little deeper and read a little further in
the difficult book of men's characters."
"And also to investigate the contents of
their purses less disinterestedly," returned
Mr. Fatman, who knew that his only safety
consisted in giving the hunchback a " broad-
side" whenever a chance offered.
" Quite, right," the latter" answered, dryly,
and not at all displeased. " What a charming
repartee! So very witty i Well, I have come
to the conclusion that Bates stole the first


54

GOING AND SON.

{t t  F
+
i
,
1
t  i
t
i
i      i

FACT.

fifteen thousand, to give to somebody else. I
am quite certain of it."
The other gentlemen looked at him in in-
quiring wonder.
" Don't stare at me so," cried Mr. Paradise,
ill-humoredly. "I know I'm a curiosity, but
I won't be stared at, especially when you want
to stare me into telling you what I haven't the
least idea of telling any one. So please pass
the wine, Going, and don't be ridiculous.  I
shan't tell you another word."
"I believe you have been my counselor for
twenty years, Paradise," said Mr. Going,
gravely ; "and it occurs to me that we might
recover that money yet, if a third party-"
" Twenty years your counselor, and yet
I won't say another word about it; no, nor
wouldn't if it was a hundred and fifty years,"
interrupted the hunchback, with offensive
sharpness. "If you think that I would with-
hold the name of this third party when the
money could be recovered, well and good. In
that case you had better take your business
away from Graves and Paradise and give it to
Van Sachenach, Precedent and Bailiff, that's
all."
Mr. Going made no reply. He was accus-
tomed to the usual acerbity of the hunchback,
and knew well enough that, could it promote his
interest, his lawyer, who was at the head of
his profession, would have told him all about
the matter without the asking.
Mr. Fatman was less easily satisfied; but as
he knew that nothing could open the lawyer's
lips when once closed, he snuffed and turned
up his nose with disgust and changed the
subject.
" How about Hobgoblin, Mr. Going," he
asked.
" hobgoblin," replied the old gentleman,
with a forced smile, which did not conceal the
nature of his thoughts, seemss to me like a
dog given to a poor man. He may be but a
puppy at the time, but he grows, gentlemen,
he grows larger and larger, and finally eats
his owner out of house and home. Now I do
not mean to say that I expect to find this
creature called lobgoblin, possessed of such
an appetite as to eat me out of house and
home ; but-"
"I should think not," said old Fatman,
leaning - back in his chair, and complacently
viewing the scene around him.    "For a
place like this, a truly palatial residence, sir,
as I have before remarked, is not so easily
swallowed."
" And not so easily digested after you have
swallowed it," said Mr. Paradise, attentively
examining his napkin ring.
" You are right, Paradise," replied Mr.
Going, biting his lips. "It is a place which
may ruin the financial health of its possessor
forever 1"
" A palatial residence," murmured Mr. Fat-
ham, sotto voce. thinking to himself, "I would
like to have it. I could digest it, and perhaps
-perhaps I will have it some day !"
" But as I intenfted to say," continued their
host, ".when I bought that farm and the mines,
I thought I was only reimbursing myself. It
only cost me ten thousand, cash!'

" A mere trifle," said Mr. Fatman, ab.
stractedly.
"A mere drop in the bucket," added the
lawyer.
"Right again," said Mr. Going, with anoth-
er forced smile, "A mere drop in the bucket
to what I have paid out on it since ! I calcu-
lated that I would build a little factory as an
experiment, and the little factory has grown
like the poor man's dog-grown over my
head-"
"Keep your head above it at all costs," cried
Mr. Paradise, striking the table with his fist,
for beneath all his sarcasm he was a true
friend of his client.
" I have thrown so much good money after
bad," said Mr. Going, gloomily, " that I may
as well try it a little longer. I shall not go
too far, rely upon it, and besides, in a short
time there will be an income.from the sale of
our manufactures."
"Yes," cried Mr. Paradise, " and for every
dollar that goes into your pocket, two or three,
or a dozen, will come out of it. That's my
opinion.
" Why don't you employ'that man Stilletto,
Mr. Going?" asked Mr. Fatman, " I under-
stand you have paid him thousands of dollars
for his patents, and now you employ another
superintendent. I should think he, the in-
ventor, would be the proper man to work his
own machinery."
"I can not endure the man," answered Mr.
Going. "lie is coarse, a libertine, and exceed.
ingly loose in money matters. I acknowledge
that his talents are considerable ; but you
know the proverb, 'le that meddles with
pitch is certain of defilement.' His very na-
ture is too foreign to mine to admit of his em-
ployment by me."
" Pooh, pooh !" said Mr. Fatman, "Don't
you employ dirty brokers and dirty agents
every day of your life?"
" Yes-but that is only in isolated cases.
Here. I will be almost obliged to associate
with a man who has not the first quality of a
gentleman, neither has he the worthy simplic-
ity and exceeding honesty which alone make
men of low degree my moral equals and
worthy of my confidence. We have a mon-
strous undertaking on our hands, and the re-
suilts may not only be very profitable, but suc-
cess will couple my name honorably with the
advancement of enterprise and civilization. To
obtain these objects, you will readily believe
that I would bend all my energies and sacrifice
my personal inclinations ; but, I will not em-
ploy a man whose very name is sufficient to
bring disrepute upon the whole establish-
ment."
"I would employ him if his services were
likely to help the business, and I would not
if they were not," said Mr. Fatman, curtly.
There was a pause in the conversation.
Every one seemed to be in a bad humor. Sud.
denly, Mr Fatman cried,--
" I have an idea."
" A miserable one, I'll wager," said the law-
yer.
" Make a stock company of the whole e0n-
cern; sell your shares and come out whole

55

and hearty," cried Fatman, without heeding
the interruption.
"Limited liability, of course !" sneered the
hunchback. "Oh, yes. Capital ideal  Lim-
ited liability, limited capacity, limited capital,
limited attention on the part of one half of
the directors, limited understanding on the
part of the other half, and limited honesty on
the part of the promoters and managers. Fin-
ally, very limited success, and not a cent in
the end for the shareholders That is the true
English for that great national English word
which you see stuck up on half the sign-boards
in LondonI"
They all laughed ; but Mr. Going thought
it need not be so in all cases, and Mr. Fatman's
idea was not negatived by the lawyer's sharp
scrutiny. Finally, they all agreed to meet
somewhere in town and talk the matter over
more fully.
In the meanwhile, our hero and Miss Jessie
were strolling along the beach. The young
lady had been talking very seriously, and the
old spell was upon him as he watched her in
the beautiful splendor of her youth, graced
by the mild earnestness of what she had been
saying.
" What a wondrous world of variety lies
hidden in this young breast," he thought to
himself. "Flirting and trifling with the host
of her admirers,,neglecting, almost ignoring
mae, she repels ip at one moment, only to at-
tract me more irresistibly at another. A hus-
band with a strong will and possessed of her
love, would find an endless field in molding
her character to what it can and should be.
If he could command her emotions and whims
so as to call out each in its place, what a deli-
cious treat, what a sweetly interesting life he
would have before him; for she would never
tire him with a flood of vapid sentimentality.
In serious moments all trilling and frivolity
would vanish away in the generous outbursts
of her great heart, while in lighter moments
she would charm, fascinate, and bewitch him
by her pretty, harmless coquetry."
"So you will do it, Mr. Montant ?" she ask-
ed, statiding still, and looking imploringly into
his eyes.
"I don't know what to say," ie answered.
unable to bear her gaze. "I feel as if it were
a question of manly dignity, and that I ought
not to step higher over the body of man
whom my craftiness has brought low."
"I can not understand how a proud man
can stop half-way at any thing. If it was not
wrong ,to bring a dishonest man to justice, and,
perhaps, save my father from complete ruin,
how can it be wrong to step into his place and
do right where he has been doing wrong."
- "What makes you speak that wayto me ?"
asked our hero, perplexed. "It seems strange
that you--"
"Certainly strange," she replied, "and,
probably it is  also  forward, immodest,
and, it may be, unwomanly; but my love
for papa makes me bold sometimes, and I
have often uplifted my little voice in busi-
ness matters. I opposed the extravagance
of buying the Priory, although it see-ms
like pam adise to me. I also opposed this new

enterprise, this monstrous, ridiculous Hobgob-
lin factory-"
" Right - quite right," interrupted  our
hero.
" If some gray-headed old stick could hear
us talking," said Jessie, smiling, "lie might
fancy we were children trying to talk wisely ;
but I think young people have good ideas,
sometimes, as well as the old. But to return
to the subject. You once promised me your
aid when the time should come.      Look
in my father's care-worn face, and tell me-has
it come ?"
He could not answer her.
" You asked me why I spoke thus to you.
A woman has no reasons for her action. I
have confidence in you-why, I don't know;
perhaps, because I know my father has. At
any rate, I want to see whether I can accom-
plish what I know lie failed to do several
months ago. He wants you to be the head-
cashier. I ask you to accept. Will you ?"
Oh. that " Will you ?" with an encouraging
smile, and an enticing toss of the head, and
the enrapturing glance of her earnest eyes.
Could lie resist? Ifad he, the strong-willed.
self-reliant, indomitable man that he thought
lie could be,---had he so far resisted the entreaty
:f a friend, and must lie yield to the pleading of
a woman ? Ile could not conceal from him-
ielf that her eloquence, joined to the magic
spell of her presence, had melted his strong
resolutions long ago, andl he consented to her
request. She was grateful, and bestowed upon
him such little marks of favor and preference
that afternoon, that Mr. Faro vowed revenge
weere hope seemed dead, and to induce other
fashionable people in Now York to cut the
Going's hereafter.
CHAPTER V.
THE G1I$EN-EYED MONSTER.
"Oh! beware, miy lord of jealousy, etc."
01u1 LLo.
Orn hero had filled the office of cashier in the
great house for but a little while, before the
friends and business connections of Messrs. Go-
ing &amp; Son knew him and respected him in his
new capacity. Naturally modest of demeanor,
his calm self-reliance was not betrayed into
ostentation or arrogance, and as his manner
invited confidence, which was never abused,
he soon controlled the finances of the house
almost entirely. When he first seized the
helm, the finances had never been in a worse
condition, yet the credit of the old house
soon became better than ever. The Goings
were considered flsh (as NewYork merchants
call it), though they were, in reality, poorer
than they had been for many years. Many
days there were, when both Walter and his
father wore anxious faces as the dreaded
hour of three, when the banks close, drew
nigh; but the new cashier sent Walter away
to "' go imp town," and enjoy himself arid leave
the bank account to him. Walter generally

4   .   1
pp  I  t 1
I ii
xi
3


56                    GOING AND SON.

took the advice, trying to cover his admiration
with a scowl; but his confidence in our hero
was never impaired. And if the large re-
sources of the house would not always come to
the rescue; if all foresight and management
failed to prevent a short period of great strain
and alarming pecuniary pressure, there was no
one better adapted to step into a neighbor's
office and solicit a loan or obtain a favor from
the banks, than Mr. Montant, the cashier, for
every one liked him, and every one knew that
his word was as good as security. It would
have looked strange had Mr. Going personally
called for favors, for then people would have
magnified the importance of the case, while, on
the other hand, Walter was not the man for
borrowing. So it was that the finances of the
house, the bone and sinew of its existence, de-
volved more and more upon Montant, who, as
was his nature, bent his whole mind and ener-
gy to the task.
Meanwhile the Hobgoblin factory was grow-
ing and still growing, like the poor man's dog;
like some financial monster whose appetite for
money increases by what it feeds on, never
satisfied, ever hungry, and not to be put oft.
People even began to believe in the wisdom
of the enterprise. The outwardly prosperous
condition of the house, under Montant's man-
agement, deadened all unfavorable reports,
and before long Mr. Going was believed to
have added another gold mine to those which
had yielded the material for the structure of
the good old house of Going &amp; Son.
And while the factory is growing and people
are talking and the new cashier is doing finely,
just as we should have expected from Ernest
Montant, we will take another look at the
Priory and see how matters are going on
there.
A carriage, driving over the bridge, through
the park, up to the grand front piazza, with
the columns reaching up to the roof and the
graceful woodbine encircling and twisting and
twining and struggling up along the walls in
classic arabesques. Two gentlemen in the
carriage and two ladies; two young and pretty
ladies, and yet Miss Jessie Going is not there,
although the gentlemen we can now recog-
nise as her brother Walter and Ernest Mon-
tant.
Miss Jessie was at the door to welcome
them; and her father, with the old chivalresque
spirit which but rarely looms up in some spe-
cimen of the true gentleman, nowadays,
stepped to the carriage to assist them in
alighting.
"Mrs. Van Strom," he said, as he kissed
her softly and affectionately on the forehead,
t you are, indeed, a dear and welcome guest
here ! and this. I presume, is Miss Bates" (as
lie extended his hand cordially to the other),
"whom I also greet most heartily. We ofe
her kind visit to your persuasions, Mrs. Van
Strom, and can only thank you for your friend,
madam!l"
"Here is the baggage, struggling up the
hill," cried Walter, *ho was in high glee. "It
may as well take its time about getting here,
for I assure you it won't leave us for a good
while to come."

"I am not so sure, sir," said Josephine Van
Strom, with a smile. "We must-"
"We must what ?" cried Walter. "Return
soon?  Do not lay that flattering unction to
your soul, Mrs. Van Strom."
"I surely do not wish to speak of leaving
this spot, where so much is dear to me," an-
swered the widow, and now, the young mistress
of the house claimed her greeting with many
kisses and welcomes, and they adjourned up-
stairs, which brought with it a temporary sep-
aration of the male and female constituents of
the party.
"Who is this coming?" said Walter, as he
and our hero were lighting their cigars, prepa-
ratory for a stroll to the stables before dinner.
"Upon my word it is Faro and Wheeler."
And sure enough, those two gentlemen
drove up in a dog-cart, drawn by a tandem
team, half smothered with harness.
" Where did you get that coat, Wheeler ?"
asked Walter, when the new visitors joined
them, after consigning their horses to the care
of a groom.
"Ah-Pool and Co.-      ah     London ye
knaw     awfully jolly coat, isn't it?  The
beastly tailors in this blarsted country can't
make a coat to save your life, yo knaw,-
ah- '
" Wheeler," said Walter, who could not bear
him, "you should not talk that way, or'some
people might think you were an English-
man."
"indeed-ahr-been told so-look English
ye knaw-parents Britishers ye knaw,"
"Yes, your parents were English, only they
have lived in New York for two hundred years
at least," answered Walter, dryly.
"Severe-my friend, severe," conceded Mr.
Wheeler, whose great air and object in life
was to be mistaken for an Englishman.
But never mind, Wheeler," added Walter,
"no man of sense will ever take you for an
Englishman. Let's go into the house, I'm sure
you gentlemen must want something to clear
the dust out of your throats."
When the ladies had made themselves charm-
ing after their long trip (for Josephine Van
Strom and Bessie Bates had traveled from Mas-
sachusetts that day), they assembled at the
dinner-table, and those to whom Miss Bessie
Bates was a stranger had an opportunity of
examining her closely. A young girl of eight-
een.  Not so pretty as finely molded, and
thoroughly English in her countenance, she
was one of those to whom belong curls, and a
dress made more for comfort than for fashion.
Blue eyes, auburn hair, and features rather
placid and classic than piquant. Ernest Mon-
tant compared the three at his leisure.
There was Josephine Van Strom, with her
golden hair and almost divine eyes; with her
superb figure and passionate impulses in every
look, every move, every word of her deep alto
voice. Madonna and Venus in one.
There was Jessie Going, the picture of a New
York belle, all grace and "chic," as the French
say. Pretty in every motion, all life and glow-
i-g beauty in her black hnir and splendid eyes,
while Miss Bates, the least attractive at first-
sight, yet held her own, with her quiet, sub-

dued air, which irresistibly led people to sup- kind of an attack. But his mind, his intellect,
pose, to use Mr. Faro's words after dinner, his senses seem to be leaving him, gradually.
that "there must be a deuced deal in, that The beautiful scenery around our house has
girl!"                                     done much, I believe to make him quiet and
"How near alike our names are," said Miss do'ile. You know our house is only about a
Jessie to Miss Bates.                      mile from Judge Bates's. Isn't it strange that
"Jessie and Bessie," corroborated that we should have made neighbors of friends of
young lady with quiet smile of her own.    yours, by mere chance, after we left this
" And, do you know, Walter has named a house ?"
pair of horses after us."                    "Indeed it is," said Mr. Going. " This is
Miss Bates bowed to that gentleman, who re- the way in which people are drawn together.
turned the salute with a queer look straight into  as it were by destiny, and re-united when their
her eyes as he said, lightly,-             natures are akin and they suit each other. I
"Bessie and Jessie are the best little pair in  have known a connecting chain of neighbor-
Westchester County!"                      hood, marriage and unions of various kinds,
"Do you mean us," said his sister, laugh- join certain families, certain sets of people and
ing interweave them in the most remarkable man-
iAs you wish," replied he, with a comic ner. Let us hope," added the old gentleman,
earnestness; "the remark applies to both. with the whole kindliness of his heart " that it
Bessie arnd Jessie match well, are both very  will be so, with us assembled here, if Miss
handsome, kind and well-bred. There is but Bates will pardon the liberty of such a wish to
one objections."                           an old man, to whom years have given the right
And what may that be?"                  to speak his mind freely."
They can not be driven by a lady," replied  Miss Bates colored up and gave him a grate-
Walter.mischievously.  "It takes a man to ful smile, while Walter looked down and said
drive them."                               "Amen," softly; but so impressively, that it
" And a pretty good driver at that, I fancy," attracted attention, and made Miss Bessie redder
added his sister, wickedly.                than before.
"I believe thee my child," said Walter; but ." My sister," said Josephine, again in an-
as Miss Bates was blushing and looking down  swer to Jessie, "has proved to be a magnificent
at her plate, he changed the subject and inquir- woman. Although her want of education and
ed after her father's health.              loworigin were great obstacles to her, she won
"Oh, quite well, I thank you," answered she. for herself a warm place in the heart of each
"You may imagine he did not like me to leave  one that knows her. she is the most charitable,
hini, in fact, when Mrs. Van Strom came to me  the kindest creature on earth, and she loves
with Miss Going's kind note of invitation. I her husband in spite of all the trouble lie is,
had no idea he would let me go, and I believe and must' always be to her. Any woman,"
that it is entirely due to Josephine's persuasive continued Josephine, with animation, "can love
powers that he finally gave way. He is so  a husband who is strong and handsome and
lonely you know, with no one but Uncle Martin  smart; but show me the one who can do her
to keep him company."                      duty by the side of a John Van Strom, and she
"How is your Uncle Martin?" asked Mr. must be a true woman indeed !"
Going, with a suppressed sigh, which Miss    The beautiful widow paused, and colored at
Bates, evidently knowing nothing of Martin  her own fervor; but Mr. Going, next whom
Bates' true story, did not notice.         she sat, took her hand warmly, and said, "Mrs.
"Uncle Martin," replied she, "is not as Van Strom, that was well and nobly said."
well or as cheerful as I have seen him in for-  Montant looked at her. fow charming,
mer t.mes. lie is much older, and seems rather how superb she appeared, as, filled with her
broken, and rather as if he had something on  noble sentiment, she shot in a il the beauty
his mind, which in reality compelled him to go of her soul. Their eyes met, and as sire read
out of business, though he says it was feeble in his burning gaze his inmost feelings, she
health which made him resign is position in  colored again, following the example of Miss
your office. He always speaks in the highest Bates. Miss Jessie noticed this occurrence,
terms of you all, and I should not be surprised  and put one little white tooth somewhat forci-
if my visit here were owing somewhat to his bly on her nether lip, a dthenceforward did
influence."                                not make the slightest attempt to entertain
In fact, Walter had been the proximate the woe-begone Mr. Faro or thre disconsolate
cause of Miss Bessie's visit. His father and  Mr. Wheeler, though they depended, for very
sister were on thn point of inviting Josephine  life, upon her smiles.
Van Strom to the Priory when he suggested    Of course, the visit of the young ladies at
in an off-handed manner, that his sister should the Priory was prolonged beyond tie few days
also invite some young lady for his especial at first specified, and Walter was a groat deal
benefit, and casually, as it were, mentioned in Miss Bates's company. Truly English in
the name of Miss Bessie Bates. Jessie fell in her habits, she could keep up with him in the
with the suggestion, and thus it happened that longest walks, and thus excited his admiration
the niece or Martin B'rtes arrived under the  anew.
auspices of the fair widow.                  But when they strolled tl gough the ga'd n
"Poor John," replied Josephine, to a ques- or park, in the evening, lie called her "essiel
tion from Jessie Going,, "is not much better. and she murmured "Walter," in reply ay.
My sister-in-law has wonderful control over though no eone else knew of the progressaof
himi, even when threatened with the worst this affair except our hero, who could aso

FACT.


58                   GOING AND SON.

have told that this was nothing new; that it
had been going on for months. Yes, and that
they were even engaged; but Judge Bates, on
one cold and dreary winter's day, objected to
the match, and Walter was too proud and an-
gry to ask any questions. Miss Bessie thought
that her father, who was a rigid Puritan, giv-
en to total abstinence, probably found it im-
possible to give his daughter to a man of the
world, whose very manner showed that he was
not a saint. Thus thought Miss Bessie, and
as Judge Bates had not -fancied the dashing
New Yorker from the outset, it is probable
that his daughter was correct in her opinion.
But another couple are often found in each
other's society during that month of October,
at the Priory, and they do not seem to care
for other companionship. Our hero and Jo-
sephine have found each other after a long
absence.
"Which seemed longer to me than it could
have seemed to any man," said the widow,
softly, as they wandered along the beach,
where the sand lay bleaching in the moon-
light, and the autumn wind blew fresh over
the swelling waters of Long Island Sound.
"I question it," replied our hero, with a
happy smile. "I have been- very busy, it is
true, and have not been able to write to you
as often as I would; but the thought of you
has been with all the operations of my mind,
and when I have not written as often as I,
perhaps, ought, it was because I can not bear
to scribble hurried nonsense to you."
They visited the rock, where they had been
seated on that bright afternoon in the spring,
when they met for the first time. They spoke
of their engagement.
"I would be proud and happy to have our
love acknowledged before the world," he said,
" but I have reasons which move me to pre-
fer, for the present, that we should keep it a
secret. You do not doubt my love for you,
Josephine?  You should not doubt."
"No," answered Josephine, hesitatingly,
"not if I were once for all certain-"
le stopped her by a rapid motion, seizing
her hands, a nd held her in front of him, while
his eyes flashed.
" Do not look at me like that," she implored.
" I do not mean-I do not know-oh, 1 am a
foolish woman;" and instead of explaining
herself, the fondness of her heart overwhelm-
ed her, and she laid her head on his shoulder.
She nestled there for some time and neither
of them spoke. Closer and closer she clung
to him, and at last he felt her convulsive
sobs on his breast.
" What is this, Josephine ?" he asked, with
evident emotion. " Have I occasioned your
sorrow ?"
"No," she murmured, "but the fear comes
over me that I may lose you! And if I do,"
she cried, in agony at the very thought, "God
is neither just nor mercifulI"
Montant was appalled. His conscience was
not altogether clear, and he decided in a mo-
ment.
" Josephine, let us declare our engagement
at once. Let the whole world know it. I am
ready."

She looked up at him, the tears still in her
eyes. The old Madonna face!1
" And now," he added, affectionately and
soothingly, "tell me what has put that non-
sense into your head."
She placed her lips close to his ear, and whis-
pered as though even Nature might hear it, and
betray the secret,-
"She is jealous of you!"
" Who ?" asked our hero, thanking his lucky
stars that it was not daylight, for his face
flushed crimson.
"Jessie Going."
"Nonsense, my dear."
" Say nonsense as long as you please," she
answered; "but I tell you the eyes of love
can see through every thing! She watches
you, she watches me, is absent-minded and
pale.  When you speak to her, her face
lights up with smiles; but if any one else
addresses her,.she is almost cross. To me
she is studiously polite and cheerful; but I
can see through it all-see through it all."
Well for you Josephine, that you could not
see his face. Well for you that his knitted
brow, his firm-set lips are hidden from you by
the merciful shadow in which he stands,
while he reads your face upturned to his in
the full moonlight.
With an almost superhuman effort of re-
pression, he'stopped the tumultuous beatings
of his heart. Yes he knew it was true ! He
knew it now, although his modesty had here-
tofore prevented him from reading the signs
Josephine now   so mercilessly pointed out.
Hundreds of little incidents, unnoticed at the
time, now came to his mind in a clamorous
crowd, each corroborating the other's evidence,
each crying out " Jessie Going loves you, and
you, fool, have been blind to it."
With a sickening sensation as if some
cherished thing were torn from him by the
act, he drove away the image which the
mouth of another had thus brought before him ;
showing it in enticing proximity, within his
grasp, but yet lost forever. With a hoarse
voice, which no effort could soften immedi-
ately, he said,-
" Let's cut this foolery all short; to-morrow
we'll tell the world that we love each other,
and then our road must be clear I"
After this speech he found it possible to be
calm, and they strolled about until very late.
Could any man hear her speak, laying her
heart open before him with all its boundless
wealth of affection; could any man see her,
in her beauty, ready to give to him body and
soul, and not be-reconciled to his lot ?
He became satisfied, and she doubted him no
longer. Of her own free will she proposed
that they should still keep their secret, rather
than hasten a public engagement, when he had
reasons for postponing it.
And so it happened, that, although his heart,
had warned him that he was playing a danger-
ous game, they determined finally to adhere to
secrecy. If he had seen as they reached the
house at a late hour, if he had heard a window
overhead close softly, as they stepped upon the
piazza, perhaps he would have had more mis-
givings as to the proof his heart was to under-

go. But had he known that a woman left the
window, where she had sat all the evening wait-
ing for them, and thrown herself upon her bed
and wept bitterly, he would have made his en-
gagement public at once, or renounced osephine
then and there.
But who would have thought it of Jessie
Going, the light-hearted belle of the city, the
happy young girl of seventeen, who had such
a host of admirers?
Next morning broke in a flood of autumnal
glory. It was Sunday, and Mr. Fatman and
Mr. Paradise drove out to take dinner at the
Priory, which, with the two lady guests made
up a pleasant party, and merriment ran high.
The widow, Miss Jessie, and Miss Bates looked
charming, and, for some reason, Miss Jessie
was in the best of spirits, flirting with Faro
and Wheeler, and .exchanging repartees with
Mr. Paradise.
So the dinner went off sparklingly, and the
younger people went out on the lawn, while
the elders talked business over their wine.
That day it was decided, in a short final dis-
cussion, that Hobgoblin should be turned into
a stock company. Further, that Mr. Fatman
should be president. Mr. Paradise'a trustee,
and Mr. Stilletto, manager of the factory, with
Mr. August Muller for engineer. Mr. Going
was to remain in the back ground, because, as
the selling party it was considered advisable
that his name should not appear.
"But then," said Mr. Fatman, with fat in-
tensity, " we will go hand in hand, Mr. Going,
hand in hand, you know!1"
And after Mr. Fatman had delivered himself
of that great sentiment he leaned back in his
chair and surveyed the room at his leisure,
muttering to himself. " A palatial residence!
Indeed, a palatial residence l" And then, he
added in the faintest of whispers, hardly formed
in the deepest recesses of his fat heart, " I
would like to have this place ! I may yet have
this place!/ I THINK  I WILL HAVE TnIs
PLACE I"
"Now it is all settled, and I am glad of it,"
said Mr. Going, rising. Followed by his guests,
he stepped out upon the piazza, where a que-er
sight awaited them.
Sounds of laughter and merriment reached
them from the lawn, where the three ladies
and four gentlemen were having a grand jolli-
fieation as if they were again irresponsible
children. Some time previous Miss Jessie had
received from her brother a present of two
very small and very shaggy black ponies, and
they furnished the means for this extraordinary
hilarity.  At Walter's suggestion they were
brought from the stable, hurdles were made of
ropes and boards, and a hurdle race was in-
augurated, Walter and Ernest volunteering to
act as jockeys. Owing to the diminutive size
of the steeds, they could not ride them, so each
seized the bridle of his nag, and at the word
'go," they started, the young men doing their
best, and the ponies, excited by the noise,
stretching their legs to the utmost. Amid
the laughter and shouts of their admirers, they
dashed across the lawn-now Walter ahead ;
now our hero; now Walter strumbles and rolls
on the grass, nearly capsizing his pony; but

there! he is up again in time to leap the hurdle,
which costs the' pony a violent effort, and
away they go again after the other. And so
they go over the hurdles, sometimes one a head,
sometimes the other, till, after a close home-
stretch, Walter is declared the winner by a
neck," amidst great applause and waving
of handkerchiefs. Bets were now made, the
race repeated, and the ladies became quite ex-
cited over their favorites, so finally a " flat "
race, without hurdles, was arranged between
Miss Bates and Jessie, which Miss Bates won
in fine style, much to her gratification, and to
the honor of her pony.
The autumn wind made free with the loose
tresses of the ladies, and their faces were in a
ruddy glow with the exercise, so that when
the ponies were led away there was a healthy,
happy air about the whole party, making a
pretty picture with their many-colored dresses
on the bright green lawn.
Mr. Going stood at the door and watched
them for a long time. His eyes passed from
one graceful form to another, from one radi-
ant, lovely face to another; but dark and un-
pleasant thoughts crowded upon him, and
silent tears gathered unbidden, as he gloomily
fancied how soon this scene of grace and hap-
piness might close or change to one of bitter
tribulation. And he lifted his heart to God in
silent prayer, that he might be permitted to
leave a home like this, secured to his children
when his time to bid the world a lasting fare-
well should come.
And again the thought of the dangers now
surrounding him, surged through his brain,
and a deep gloom overshadowed his soul.
CHAPTER VI.
BORN A VAGABOND.
*what the devil art tho ?"
One that will play the devil."
Kise Joani.
Ma. ANTONIO STILLETTO was alone in his
room, whose only article of elegance was a
large mirror in an ostentatious gilt frame.
The carpet shone in a variety of loud colors,
but the material was inferior. The furniture
had once been fine, but it was now broken and
dirty, and the linen on the pretentious bed was
soiled. The whole suited well its occupant ;
as lie sat musing by the window, dressed in a
velvet coat, which showed only a sad want of
brushing, shirt, collar and culls nearly black,
while his torn slippers revealed a pair of stock-
ings in a most uninviting condition.  His
hands seemed to beg for soap and water, his
finger nails needed a hoe, though his hair had
been dyed a glossy brown that very morning,
giving his head that peculiarly vulgar, barber-
shop appearance, which distinguishes the true
New   York snob.   The room   was strewn
around with broken trinkets, old combs and
brushes, opened letters, half-torn and crumple.I
papers, sine of them very yellow, others of
rosy liue and exhibiting femintine handwriting,
while here and there was a carpet-bag or port-

I

FACT.

59

i  ;
i
t6
R
f

I


60                   GOING AND SON.

manteau, which looked as if broken open by
burglars and rifled of their valuables, so con-
fused were the heaps of wearing apparel of
all sorts and stages of filthiness which appear-
ed at their gaping mouths.
So the room and its contents suited well
the man, and his soliloquy was of a piece with
the rest. Mr. Stilletto had the blues, and as
he racked his brains to find a way out of his
present condition, his sharp face wore a look
of unmistakable villainy, which might have led
a casual observer to imagine that the plans
contemplated by him savored of treacherous
craftiness. He had not yet been informed of
his appointment as superintendent of the
Iiobgoblin Manufactory, by its president, Mr.
Fatman.
"I wonder what reasons the old fool has,"
mused Mr. Stilletto, meaning, by that compli-
mentary term, Mr. Goimg. " I wonder what
that old fool has against me! le buys my
patents and then refuses to employ me to run
the factory. And here I am, all the money
spent, and no income to keep me alive. Some-
thing must be done, and that soon, for here is
that old hag bothering my life out, for my board,
and I do hate to leave these fashionable quar-
ters! I suppose old Muller would take me in
again; but what would some of my friends say
if they discovered that this house does not be-.
long to me, as they are fools enough to believe.
Tradespeople, women, gamblers, horsemen,
and all trust me because they think the house
belongs to me, and my debts are of a na-
ture which requires coaxing and some harmless
white lies. Still, what fun it would be to
clear out and leave them to open their eyes,
and rub their noses, and scratch their heads!1
But it is not time for that yet. No! no! When
the time comes to give them the grand shake, I
know somebody who will make a, big haul be-
fore he bids an affectionate farewell to this
great city of New York I At the same time,
what is to be done now ?" he asked himself in
great perplexity. "Dress myself in style I"
was the answer.   "Whereupon I shall feel
more like myself and show a bold front. Noth-
ing in the world like a bold front when the
main army is weak and the enemy strong,
though easily humbugged."
So he commenced his process of Adonizing.
He washed himself, that is his ablution began
with his hands, and-ended there, for the very
excellent reason that his hands alone could be
seen besides his face, which had already been
treated with eau de cologne and bay rum at the
barber-shop. Ile next kicked his slippers into
one corner of the room and pulled on his pat-
ent-leather boots without even giving a thought
to his stockings-for who cares what is under-
sseath a shining boot in this world of outward
display?  Then came a search for something
which necessitated a general overhauling of
portmanteaus and drawers, and a wild scatter-
ing of articles which should have been consign-
ed to the washerwoman long before. Mr.
Stilletto searched and swore, and swore and
searched, until the major part of the carpet was
covered with the subsur~face part oflhis wardrobe.
Finally, he was successful in his search and
triumphantly produced a '"dickeg," i.e. so much

of a shirt as appears to the public from under
a vest, and which only is a brevet shirt. This
adjusted to his liking, a paper collar, the sur-
face enameled to resemble, linen, was pinned
on. Then came some more searching and
some more swearing until he found his cravat,
of the genius "butterfly," consisting of a piece
of yellow satin, ready made into a bow. This
piece of false pretence he adorned with a very
large California diamond pin, but his panta-
loons were immaculate, his vest was simply
sublime, and his enormous watch-chain very
well gilt (the watch was silver, but kept well
out of sight). When he had brushed his vel-
vet coat lie was was ready for a promenade.
A knock at the door. Mr. Stilletto paid no
attention to it, for lie was giving the "finish-
ing touch "in front of the pier glass in the
gilded frame. A double knock. Mr. Stilletto,
lost im admiration of himself, disdained to heed
it. Three distinct, sharp, angry raps. Mr.
Stilletto evidently heard them and also recog-
mzed the outsider, for his eyes sparkled with
anger and his under lip began to quiver. His
finely cut mouth could assume a pleasant, al-
most fascinating smile when be chose ; but now
lie did not feel very amiable.
"I know you are inI" said a sharp, unmusi-
cal voice, through the key-hole.
"Why the devil don't you come in, then ?"
retorted Mr. Stilletto, with a sneer. " You
don't suppose I lock my door against such as
you, do you, Mrs. Hart ?''
The door was opened violently, Mrs. Hart
stepped in determinedly, stood still, cast her
eyes about the room, and slammed the door
behind her. Stilletto had not honored her
with a look, but continued the review of his
toilet at the mirror. Mrs. Hart was a tall,
gaunt creature of fifty, with a very yellow
complexion, very black eyes, false curls, and a
black lace cap. Determination was her forte.
Determination spoke in her voice, flashed in
her eyes, and marked her manner, as she now
took a chair unbidden.
"Do sit down, Mrs. Hart," sneered Stilletto,
his back still turned to her, while he watched
her through the looking-glass.
" Thank you, I am seated, sir, and, what is
more, I intend to keep my seat."
"I think I will change my dress, after all,"
muttered Stilletto, quite loud enough for her
to hear. "These pantaloons are too heavy for
this weather."
"I hope you don't mean-" cried Mrs. Hart,
bouncing to her feet.
"To use my room when I want to, in spite
of an impudent hussy ?" asked Stilletto, turn-
ing upon her with an ugly grin. " Why, cer-
tainly I mean to."
" Your room, is it? Where is my money? It
is not your room until you pay your rent,'
you-"
"No impudence. Mrs. Hart, or you will make
me mad, and then I'll break your neck."
" Pay your rent. I want my money."
"Go to hell," said Stilletto, quietly producing
his cigar case.
"I1 won t stand it any longer," cried Mrs.
Hart, livid with rage. "You are being the
death of me ! This room is like a pig-styc.

All sorts of disreputable characters sneak in
here to see you and ruin my reputation."  t
" Your reputation !" said Stilletto, lighting a t
cigar.
"Yes, sir, I am a respectable woman, and t
ry daughter's grown up, and I have respecta-i
ble people living in my house-"
"Ad you want me to marry your daughter,
and I won't do it," interrupted Stilletto, in-the
same quiet tone. As his landlady grew more
wrathful he assumed an air of unspeakably
calm impertinence, though his under lip quiv-
ered more and more, and his color changed
somewhat in the course of this conversation.
"You lie," shrieked Mrs. Hart, whereupon
Stilletto, without moving a muscle of his face,
stepped to the door, turned the key, put it in
his pocket, and took a heavy walking cane
from a corner. Then he sat down in a chair,
facing Mrs. Hart, laid the weapon across his
knees and continued smoking, staring directly
into her eyes. le had queer eyes. Bold be-
yond description, shameless beyond concep-
tion, crafty and cruel beyond imagination, they
spoke his real nature in moments like the
present.
Mrs. Hart resumed her seat, as if pushed
suddenly by a force she could not resist, and,
wavering between fear arjd rage, gave vent to
her mingled emotions by the womanly expo-
nent of both, a copious flood of tears. Stilletto,
no whit moved by this display, looked up at
the ceiling as if lie preferred that view to the
one before him.    -
" You almost choked me in this very room
once," blubbered Mrs. Hart, "and I have no
doubt you would like to give me an unmerci-
ful beating, though I am only a weak wo-
"Certainly," admitted Stilletto, nodding -as-
sent. "'Unmerciful beating' is good, and quite
appropriate."   -
And then," said Mrs. Hart, ceasing her
crying and grinding her teeth, " if I had you
arrested and sued you for assault and battery,
you would bring that nasty Dutchman, that
Tombs lawyer, to help you out, and it would
cost me money instead of yourself. He is the
man that wrote out that accursed lease--"
"According to which you lease meo this room
for a year, so that you can't kick me out as
long as I pay my rent every month."
"Yes, and how have you paid it?  You are-
fused to pay-I sued you-got a warrant, and
when the thing had cost me twenty dollars,-
just as I was going to have you 'kicked out,'
as you say, and well you deserve it-you paid
up! Oh, oh, my heart is broke with you I"
and here the woman, who was generally an
imperious, self-willed creature, being entirely
conquered by heriamiable lodger, burst into a
-piteotis fit of crying.
" If you don't stop that I'll choke you worse
than the first time."
" Mrs. Hart, wmo was a powerful woman,
and at least a head taller than Stilletto, became
desperate at this inhuman threat. She sprang
from her chair and seized the first thing within
her reach. It happened to be an empty cham-
pagne bottle, for Mr. Stilletto amid hsis friends
were fond of that beverage, when in posses-

sion of sufficient funds to purchase it. With
this weapon she was about to make a fierce at-
tack upon him, when loud knocks wore heard
at the door. With a look of intense malice at
the woman, Stilletto jumped to the door and
unlocked it to admit witnesses to the scene-
which was just what he wanted. Mrs. Hart,
comnprehiending his motives, was incensed to
perfect fury, and threw the bottle at his head.
He escaped by dexterous dodging, and the bot-
tle grazed the head of Mr. August Muller, the
"Dutch Tombs lawyer," of Mrs. Hart's pre-
vious sorry acquaintane, who was just enter-
ing the room. The philosopher, with a cry of
fear, retreated so suddenly that he knocked
against the detective, Mr Stump, who was
closely following him, and they both rolled on
the floor, while Mrs. Hart stood trembling from
the effects of her passion; but appalled by the
mischief she had done. Stilletto threw himself
into a chair and burst into a peal of laughter.
" Gentlemen," stammered Mrs. Hart, " real-
ly, gentlemen, I must beg your pardon-"
 "Which I aint a-going for to grant, for one,"
cried Mr. Stump, in a rage, as he picked him-
self up and seized her by the arm. " You air
my priz'ner, marm, that's what you air." At
which Stilletto laughed again; nor (lid the
sight of Mr. Muller, unable to recover his per-
pendicular immediately, cause his hilarity to
cease.
Mrs. Hart expostulated ; but for a long while
in vain. Mr. Stump declared himself to be an
assaulted officer, and showed his badge, and
badgered the poor woman until Stilletto felt
exhausted with laughter, and stepped up,
saying.-
"Stump, let me speak to her a moment." HiO
took her aside, and whispered in his most
threatening manner:-
" Now look you! You have insulted me
this morning. If I let that policeman take you
to the station house, you can just bet it 'will
cost you a hundred dollars to get out again;
for you know me, don't you? and with my
lawyer for a witness against you, I will make
you pay handsomely for your impudence to
me. But I'll not be too rough on you. You just
sign your name to this bill for last month's
rent, and I'll let you oft. It's only thirty dol-
lars, so don't be long about it!"
"I'd rather go to state's prison, you-" cried
the outraged landlady.
"Stump," said Stilletto, "arrest this woman.
Muller and I will appear against her to-nor-
row. 'Till then, she can sleep in the station
house."
" Mercy !" shrieked the poor woman. "Mer-
cy! gentlemen. I'm innocent. Oh! oh ! the
villain-the brute is going to be the death of
me!"
e "Will you sign?" whispered Stilletto, fiercely.
"No!" cried Mrs. Iart; but when Mr.
Stump approached, she whispered a hurried
" Yes! yes! Any thing-my life if you like-
and you're sure to have thatin the end;" and
thus Mr. Stilletto paid his rent, in a mariner at
once novel, and highly satisfactory to his purse
and his self-esteem.
-" And now," said Mr. Muller, after Mrs.
Hart had frantically rushed down stairs-a few

rI

FACT.                          61


GOING AND SON.

words from Stilletto had changed the anger of
the new-comers into merriment-" I will tell
you what brought us here. It is all right."
"What is all right, you idiot ?" asked Mr.
Stilletto, impatiently. "Instead of ogling me
in that manner, and grinning like a goblin,
damn it. I wish that you would explain your-
self at once as sensibly as you can."
"IHobgoblin is all right," grinned Mr. Muller.
"It's all a Limited Liability," explained Mr.
Stump, wisely.
" A  Joint Stock  Company," cried  Mr.
Muller.
"And Fatman is President, and Anthony
Staletoe is Manager," added Mr. Stump.
" Do you mean me, by that vulgar name ?"
"I do," replied Mr. Stump, "and I wish you
many congratulations."
With a cry of joy, Stilletto rang the bell
violently; and after a few more hurried partie-
ulars had been given him, the servant made
her appearance. With the first impulse of men
of his stamp upon receiving good news, he
cried:-
" Run around to Delmonico's, and buy me
three bottles of champagne: here is the memo-
randum on this bit of paper."
" Yis, sur; but sure, sur, where's the money
to pay for it, sur?"
" That's a fact; I forgot that. Here, con-
found it, I haven't got any money. Muller,
lend me twenty dollars."
"Come to August Muller for friendship, for
advice, for sympathy in affliction or in joy;
but co're not to him for money, for he has
none."
" You are always poor," said Stilletto, with
an oath. "Stump, lend me twenty dollars."
" Detective  officers are  always flushI"
answered that worthy, producing a well-
rounded pocket-book. " The trade brings it."
"I dare say it does," answered Stilletto, with
a sneer, as lie took the note from his fat
fingers. "Now run, Bridget, and bring me
back the change, or I'll wring your neck first,
and Mrs. Hart's afterward."
The girl left hurriedly, and soon returned.
Stilletto threw off his coat, and the three were
soon deep in the more detailed discussion of
Hobgoblin and iced champagne. Stilletto's
spirits rose.
"Now, then, my star is in the ascendency,"
he cried. " And we will see if I can't make
that old fool of a Going pay for what he has
done to me!I"
The discussion lasted till daylight began to
fade away, when Mr. Muller said:-
" At nine o'clock to-night we are to be at the
house of Mr. Fatman, the President."
" I will meet you there, but I have an en-
gagement first. It suits me quite well to go,
for my engagement is right on the way."
" What sort of an engagement may this be,
you wild youth?' asked the philosopher.
The " wild youth" laughed a coarsely insin-
uating laugh; but vouchsafed no further expla-
nation.
*    *    *    *    *    *     *
Mr. Fatman's hobby was, giving expensive
dinners to a few very select friends. Although

he knew ow to knit his brows, be imperious,
overbearhg, and pompous to people below him
in station, or at his mercy in the course of
business, yet few more jovial hosts could be
found.
About seven o'clock, of the evening in which
he expected Stilletto, Muller, and Stump, to
discuss "lHobgoblin," he was entertaining Mr.
Paradise, the hunchback, and another gentle-
man, Mr. Chip, at dinner.
Mr. Chip, familiarly styled "old Moneybags,"
by his numerous friends and acquaintances, on
account of his immense wealth, was a meek
little man, and sat at the table more like a
tolerated poor relation than a millionaire, whom
Fatman was determined to court and fawn
upon.
Mrs. Fatman was dressed ip splendidly,
with her best set of teeth, and newly-arranged
false hair-her figure stuffed out and hemmed
in, and laced and screwed up to perfection--
her eyes sparkling and large, from a judicious
combination of belladonna and eau-dc-cologne,
altogether presenting the semblance of the
handsome woman she had been ten years ago.
She was the only lady present, and was seated
as hostess, opposite her liege lord, whose god-
his stomach-pressed lovingly against the
table, forgetting entirely about the legs, dang.
ling somewhere underneath.
Those poor legs! A life of gluttony had
long ago slackened their muscles; and yet they
had to carry that lump of a stomach from the
house to the carriage, from the carriage to the
office, and from one desk in his counting-house
to another;-poor legs!
And yet over that stomach there sat a head
whose brain had not yet died from overfeeding,
a head that was a match for most heads that
were based on healthier bodies ; and as its
owner entertained his company, this head
rolled about on its invisible neck, with a pe-
culiarly good-natured expression.
" Moneybags" was eating with an anxious
face, slowly and carefully, being painfully
aware of the road to dyspepsia, which lie was
traveling. When his enemy warned him of
its near approach by a nervous pang, he would
quickly gulp some olives or liqueur or some
other delicacy to "help the digestion," which
generally results in adding to the misery the
morrow must bring.
Paradise was in high spirits, and conse-
quently more impertinent than ever. As his
friends did not enjoy a vast amount of intelli-
gence, unless on business topics, he would not
deign to sharpen his sarcasm on their dull
hides ; but concentrated his efforts on Mrs.
Fatman whom he had always hated.
" I am glad to inform you, gentlemen," cried
the fat host, "that I have here some English
hare which I imported lately.   They are
capital. My dear, will you taste some ?"
She did taste some.
" Have you not hair enough already, Mrs.
Fatman ?" asked the humpback, maliciously.
The lady colored a little, but said nothing,
venting her anger on a bone of the hare.
Paradise, vexed at not having received an an.-
swer, returned to the charge. .
" Do not bite so hard, I beg of you, Mrs,.

Fatman. You might break those pretty teeth
of yours I"
Enraged at this second attack on her weak
points, Mrs. Fatman retorted.
"It is safe enough to insult a lady, when
her husband is not man enough to chastise the
offender."
"My darling," cried Fatman, in perfect good
humor, " if I did, I might break his back you
know, and that would be-"
" Sad," interrupted Paradise, " for my back
hurts when flogged, I tell you. That is the
difference between my humpback and your
beautiful bosom, Mrs. Fatman, mine is gen-
ulne !"
" By-, Paradise," cried Fatman, who prided
himself on the good looks of his wife. " That
is too much even from you! I .remember that
if you rouse me, I might use my powers as
master of this house, and give you more than
you could swallow."
" Well, now, really I do not feel like leaving
this comfortable seat," said the humpback, seri-
ously, " so we will change the subject. Let
us talk about business. Tell me, Mr. Fatman,"
he added, with mock gravity, "what are the
real prospects of the Hobgoblin Company ? I
am to own some of the shares you know, and
would sell them if I could get a good price for
them."
Fatman laughed. Old Moneybags smiled;
but an uncomfortable expression came over his
timid face.  A  few  sneering remarks were
passed on the subject; and then it was dis-
missed with universal levity.
The dinner progressed, dessert was brought
on and removed, and Mrs. Fatman arose to
leave the gentlemen to their cigars.
"Good evening, gentlemen."
" Why do you go so soon, Madam," queried
Paradise. " Is it an appointment with a
lover ?"
How   is this?  Why did she start, turn
scarlet, and dart him a look which was full of
malice? Had his Parthian arrow struck an-
other weak point? In a moment she had
swept from the room. Paradise was taken
aback. This time he had intended no mis-
chief; but his random shot suggested a good
deal of mischief to his fertile brain.  He
glanced sharply at the two others, and saw
they had noticed nothing, and then inwardly
chuckled over his new discovery.
Mrs. Fatman went down into the kitchen.
A man cook, and two waiters, who had been
ordered from Delmonico's along with the din-
ner, were just preparing to leave the house.
" How did Madame like ze deenay?" asked
the cook, pulling off his cap.
" Oh, very well-are you all through ?"
" Oui, madame. Zeese man will come in ze
morning to wash ze deeshes.      Bon  soir
madame."
When the men had closed the door behind
them, Mrs. Fatman turned to a tidy looking
girl who stood by,-
" Maggy; I suppose the other girls have allj
gone out, as I gave them leave ?"
" Yes, mum."
-" Then you can go up stairs to see that the
gentlemen have all-they want."'

"Yes, mum. He is in the closet." Off she
went, with a serene countenance.
What did Maggy mean ? Mrs. Fatman did not
seem surprised or puzzled by the information;
perhaps she had heard that expression before.
At all events she looked carefully around,
opened the closet door, and out stepped Mr.
Antonio Stilletto, quite cheerfully, and as bold,
as ever.   Throwing his arms around the
banker's wife, he kissed her again and again,
without ceremony.
But we will not dwell upon the scene.
Stilletto sneaked out, after awhile as hie had
sneaked in-as he always sneaked through life
like an evil spirit of darkness, with all that is
contemptible in his character, except cowardice,
for his unmeasured boldness, saved him at
least from that meanest of vices.
Ihardly had Mrs. Fatman readjusted her
head-dress and collar, which had suffered some
derangement, when there came a very light
knock at the door, followed almost instantane-
ously by the entrance of Mr. Paradise.
"I beg your pardon, madam," he said, "I
hope I am not disturbing you." As he spoke
he glanced in every corner, and under the
table.
What do you mean, sir ?" she asked, with
assumed haughtiness, though she could not re-
press the color that rose to her cheeks, or
raise her eyes to meet his piercing gaze.
Oh, nothing at all, nothing at till," ho ro-
plied, in an off-hand manner, entirely unnatural
in hima, for his remarks were generally very
pointed. "I only wanted to get some Italian
nuts, for the girl up stairs don't know where
they are, and she told us the cook was out, so
I came for them because I happen to know
the little place where they are kept."
Whereupon he advaincecd to the closet,
whence Stilletto had issueil, and procured what
he wanted, while Mrs. Fatruan, stood by in
speechless fear doubting in her bad conscience,
that he might know all about her secret. But
1no course was left to her but to speak him fair,
while he in his turn was qmite polite, which
was a very suspicious sign in him.
Half an hour later, Mr. Muller arrived, and
Stilletto followed him, little suspected of his
previous visit to the house. These worthies
discussed Hobgoblin in earnest with Mr. Fat-
man, old Moneybags and Mr. Paradise, and made
plans and settled aflairs, although neither Mr.
Going or his son had been notilled of the
meeting. But then Fatman had said they
were going " hand in hand you know I"
CHAPTER VII.
WARNING VoICES.
lovev, and honor him.
But must notbreak may back to heal his finger."
Tiuos or ATnrms.
MR. GOING, Senior, was sitting in his office
engaged in nothing beyond his own thoughts.
However, they afforded him qomite enough oc-
cupation; for many matters of great importance
were now presenting themselves for consid

I

62

p

FACT.

63

t
!.
,

'  kF
.l ,
i
,
,.
'

1 f
j j
w+^
p t r"
I  Y
t


GOING AND SON.

eration, some pleasant, others more threaten-
ing.
He was not busy, the firm had not been busy
for many weeks; indeed the old and reliable
banking and commission business had been
neglected since all their energy and means had
been concentrated upon the giant enterprise
that was to determine the fate of the house
and of the family-Hobgoblin.
It may appear strange; but many business
men can corroborate its probability from their
own experience-from the time that their legit-
imate business was neglected, barely looked
after when it demanded attention, every ven-
ture connected with it, seemed charged with
disaster. Without fault or special neglect of
any particular person, losses continued to come
in until father and son, in a fit of despondency,
determined to wind up their affairs and devote
themselves entirely to the Hobgoblin factory.
Mr. Going sat musing alone in his private
room. This manufacturing business required
but little office-work, so the old gentleman
watched his cashier, who could be seen at his
desk in the next room, working away most
assiduously.  Knowing that but little work
was necessary at the time, he became curious,
and finally stepped up to him and tapped him
lightly on the shoulder.
"What are you so busy about, Mr. Mon-
tant ?" he asked, smiling. " In  these dull
times it is quite mysterious to see you so hard
at work."
"I am making out a complete statement of
the affairs of the house, Mr. Going," replied our
hero.
" What for. For me 7"
"Yes, sir, for you.  I have to ask your
pardon for presuming to undertake it without
orders; but, in the face of the great change
about taking place, I am sure you will be
pleased to know exactly how you stand, on
leaving the old regie."
" On leaving the old regime I" repeated Mr.
Going, to himself, and after he had gone to
rest that night, the dream-god troubled him by
putting that sentence into the mouths of
hideous monsters, who kept repeating in
warning chorus: "On leaving the old regime."
"It is all right, Mr. Montant, and I am
obliged to you for your attention."  '
So saying, Mr. Going once more retired into
privacy. le felt very gloomy this morning.
The office was unusually still and deserted.
Besides the cashier, but one clerk was present
and endeavoring to banish sleep by making a
list of some papers which did not at all require
that operation. The vicious clock in the outer
office ticked away determinedly and far too
loudly to be pleasant. Where was the life of
the once great house?  Where were the nu-
merous clerks; where, the constant stream of
messengers; where, the prosperous, never-
ceasing activity, which had made office hours
delightful to him? Martin Bates had proved a
traitor to him, and in his place sat a man,
whom the old gentleman liked ; but also, it
must be acknowledged, feared a little. Yes, he
feared him, for he knew that Ernest Montant
was bitterly opposed to this Hobgobhin scheme1
which was swallowiug the whole firm. And

Mr. Going, beneath all his self-imposed hope-
fulness and confidence in the mining and man.
ufacturing company, felt deep in his heart that
his cashier was right."
A meek little man, in a plain coat, stepped in.
"Good morning, Mr. Chip," said the old gen.
tleman, rising, with great politeness. I am most
delighted to see you!"
"Thank you. Busy ?" asked little " Money.
bags," whose acquaintance we made in
the last chapter, as one of Mr. Fatman's
guests, a millionaire, interested in the projected
Hobgoblin Mining and Manufacturing Com-
pany.
"Not at all, Mr. Chip," said Mr. Going.
' " Just now business is very dull."
"So I see," replied old "Moneybags," look-
ing about hin in an uncomfortable, shy man-
ner. "So I see."
There ensued an awkward pause. Mr. Going
became aware that there was an object in this
visit. Mr. Chip fully aware of that object, but
not exactly equal to its fulfillment, was silently
embarrassed. He rubbed his thin knees, he
coughed, drew his handkerchief, employed all
the expedients he could think of to gain time;
but finally, was completely at a loss, and sat
there staring before him, a most discomfited
individual.
"Dull times, eh !" he suddenly said, in a fit
of desperation.
"Yes, sir," answered Mr. Going, who was
painfully aware of the little man's perplexity.
" You see, my old commission business has
slackened considerably of late-in fact-"
"In fact," interposed Mr. Chip, seeing that
Mr. Going was brought to a full stop, "in fact,
you have neglected it a little.".
" I am afraid so," answered the other, with
a sigh.
"And you have devoted yourself to the
manufacturing business instead ?" asked Mr.
Chip, briskly. The ice was thus broken, for
this was the subject which he wished to dis-
cuss with Mr. Going.
" Yes, sir," said the latter, with another
sigh.
" You know that Fatman has got me to in-
vest two hundred thousand dollars in this new
company," said the millionaire again, in a hesi-
tating voice, and looking at every thing in
the room except Mr. Going, " and I wish to ask
you plainly, before we sign the final papers,
whether-ahem--whether--"
" Well, sir?" asked Mr. Going, with a smile.
" Whether it might not result more to the
credit of us both if we should let the whole
thing go back. Nothing is signed yet, you
know-"
Mr. Going looked earnestly at him for a mo-
ment. Something told him that Mr. Chip was
not prompted by any selfish motives in coming
to him with this new proposition; but he an-
swered, cautiously,--
"I would not entertain such an idea for a
moment, had it come from any one else. There
is, undoubtedly, a large fortune in this under-
taking."
" Yes, as you say-a large fortune," said
" Moneybags,". absent-miadedly ; " of course
there is-at least it is so supposed."

"For we can certainly sell the shares in
these speculative times," said Mr. Going, in a
tone as if he doubted his own assertion very
strongly.
. Mr. Chip's manner changed somewhat. He
turned his eyes full upon Mr. Going, and bend-
ing forward a little, spoke very clearly and de-
cisively.
"The capital -stock of the company is two
millions of dollars. These two millions of dol-
lars are all placed in my hands as a security
for the advance I make to the company. The
two hundred thousand dollars which I ad-
vance go toward enlarging your factory, with
the exception of fifty thousand dollars which
you receive in cash at once. Besides this sum,
you receive notes of the company for which
no individual is responsible, to the amount of
one hundred thousand dollars. These notes
may be paid, these notes may not be paid. I
decline to be a trustee, preferring to act only
as an outside capitalist. As soon as enough
stock is sold to repay me my capital, I relin-
quish the balance and you get half the shares
left. It is to be hoped that the company will
pay me my two hundred thousand, and you
your one hundred thousand dollars; it is to be
hoped that all the shares will be sold, ultimate-
ly, in which case you will, make nearly a mil-
lion by the transaction; but we had a meeting
at Mr. Fatman's house a few nights ago, and
that young loafer Stilletto was there, while
you were not even invited to look on, Mr. Go-
ing, and, to tell you the truth, I don't like the
looks of the whole thing. Shall we withdraw ?"
It is doubtful whether Mr. Moneybags ever
spoke so courageously on a subject which was
not an ordinary business transaction. He was
always sharp, concise, and clear when he defin.
ed any thing'connected with dollars and cents,
but he rarely appealed to principles or cau-
tioned any one. With him it was "yes" or
"no," and what he had settled in his mind was
"signed, sealed, and delivered" beyond appeal;
but his better feelings had been aroused in be-
half of his old friend Going, whom he had
always respected very highly. Had he been a
man of moral courage and strength of charac-
ter he would not have been satisfied with a
mere caution. He would have showed Mr.
Going all that his clear and impassionate dis-
crimination foresaw in this Hobgoblin business,
and while denouncing the whole plan in the
strong terms it deserved, would have called
upon him to keep himself free from the impend-
ing danger and possible disgrace.
A powerful, fearless appeal like this, and
from such a source, would have decided Mr.
Going at once, for already he felt worried,
anxious, and distrustful, and the right word in
the right place only was necessary to root him
to the right spot. But Mr. Chip was too timid
and weak to speak that word or to give it
weight, so when Mr. Going simply said that,
"after all, there seems no doubt that the stock
will be sold," and that he was certain Mr. Fat-
man would really go "hand-in-hand" with him,
the millionaire dismissed the subject, thinking
that he had done his duty, and after a few ti-
rial remarks took a frigid leave.'
Mr. Going had no time to consider well this

"warning voice" which had spoken but half
its import, before another visitor arrived.
" Good morning, Paradise" said Mr. Going,
extending his hand to the hunchback.
" I have that agreement.  Will you sign
it?" asked the lawyer with his usual abrupt-
nees.
" There is no great hurry, I suppose ?" said
Mr. Going, with a troubled air, taking the pa.
pers from his hands.
"If there is any sense in postponing it, you
may do so," replied Mr. Paradise, ill-humored-
ly. " But since you have gone into this thing
against my advice, you may as well sign and
be done with it."
"Against your advice ?" cried Mr. Going,
amazed.
"Why, certainly," replied the other, with a
sneer, "and allow me to remark one thing
which you ought to have learned long ago from
its frequent repetition. I know that I am a
natural curiosity, but I object to be stared at
like a deformed monkey in a show-shop I"
"You can not put me off with your non-
sense," said Mr. Going, good-naturedly, " so
have the kindness to tell ie when and where
you honored me with your advice."
" Were I dealing with a school-boy, I might
assume the warning-cane and mount gold-
rimmed spectacles, but when I want to cau-
tion you, in respect to your gray hairs, I can not
speak so directly. Ridicule suffices to show
you the weak points in a clear light without
subjecting me to the set phrase of thanks for
good advice, which means simply derision or
insult, or, at the best, contempt."
In the meanwhile, Mr. Going had found a
letter inclosed in ,the agreement papers, and
opened it for perusal. It was penned in a large,
firm handwriting, and read as follows,-
"HoBGoBLIN.
Messrs. Going &amp; Son-
" DEAR Smrs,--Our mutual friend and coun-
selor, Mr. Paradise, will deliver you the con-
tract upon which we have already agreed, for
your signature. I beg of you not to delay this
last and consummating act, for we are losing
precious time. People's minds are speculative
at present. There is an almost unprecedented
abundance of money in commercial circles.
We must declare a dividend very soon, and
sell our stock like hot cakes. Rely on me.
We will go hand-in-hand,
Yours, very truly,
"FATrMAN."
"He is a clever, energetic man," said Mr.
Going, considerably elated and quite reassur-
ed by the tone of the, letter. " I can hardly
withdraw with any decency now, even if I
wanted to; and I confess that I have as much
confidence in this undertaking as ever, in spite
of my good counselor's previous advice, and
my friend Chip's caution this morning,"
" So Moneybag's has been here too ?" asked
the hunchback. "Now it might look to an out-
sider as if he and I were anxious to wash our
hands in innocence, and be able to sa'y, in case
the thing should go wrong, ' We told him so

1

64

FACT.

65


66                   GOING AND SON.

before he went into it; but he would not listen
to us.' '
This inconsiderate, reckless speech, quite
characteristic of the lawyer, struck Mr. Going
very forcibly; but he had fully determined to
persist in Hobgoblin, and did not choose to
worry himself any longer about the final re-
sult.
" I will sign these to-morrow morning," he
said, "unless I should find some objectionable
points in the wording of the document."
"Read it now, and sign it," said Mr. Para-
dise.
"I do not see the necessity for this great
haste," rejoined Mr. Going, calmly.
"I am here now to correct any thing which
may be wrong," persisted the lawyer. "Do
you suppose that I have nothing to do but to
wait upon gentlemen's leisure and to be sent
away to call again, like a tailor's apprentice ?"
"I have no time at present," said Mr. Going,,
"and I prefer any way to go over the agree-
ment and contract with Walter, before bring-
ing any possible defects to your notice."
"All right," said the lawyer, rising in his
quick, impulsive manner. "Good day. You
can send it signed to my office, to-morrow
morning, or you can leave it unsigned and
throw it into the waste-basket. Fatman, for
one, will be very angry, for lie wants to go to
work at once. Moneybags is ready to pay his
little two hundred thousand to-day, and is go-
ing to leave town to-morrow, so you see what
your obstinacy is going to do for us in the
shape of delay."
" Mr. Paradise," answered the ol gentleman,
with dignity, "I can not be badgered into com-
mitting myself rashly in a matter all-important
as this. Your attempt to force me into this
signature is not calculated to increase my con-
fidence in the wisdom of signing, or in your
friendship for inc."
"All right, I repeat," answered the hunch-
back, opening the door. "You had better let
the whole thing go, and back out boldly !"
"Your insults I am accustomed to," re-
plied Mr. Going, proudly, "but you should
know, from your experience in this commu-
nity, that no one who respects himself conde-
scends to he offended by them."
"Good day," said the lawyer, spitefully, and
slammed the door after him.
" And this is the beginning of this great
company" thought the old gentleman, bitterly.
"Mr. Chip comes here with an honest warning
and proposes that we withdraw. The result
is that we part considerably estranged. I ere's
Paradise, who spoke truth when he said he
had given me proper advice in his peculiar
way, leaves me in a manner which may break
an intimacy of twenty years. Fatman himself,
I suppose, will no longer be on terms of cor-
diality with me. God grant that I have not
initiated my -uin i"
His eyes, wandering in restless doubt and
perplexity from one object to another, finally
rested upon his cashier, now visible through
the door which Mi-, Going had opened again
when his visitors had departed.
" Mr. Montant 1" called the old gentleman.
The cashier approached with several envelopes

in his hand. His principal motioned him to
close the door and then said:-
"Mr. Montant, you know every item of my
business affairs, in the firm and out of it. I
wish you now to read over this contract and
agreement and give me your opinion of it."
He took it and read the title indorsed on the
last sheet:-
"Contract between Going &amp; Son and the
Hobgoblin Mining and Manufacturing Com.
pany."?
Without any change of expression, he gave
in return three large envelopes to Mr. Going.
They were marked respectively-
"Trial Balance," Schedule of Assets, Com-
mercial and Personal," and "List of Personal
and Commercial Liabilities."
"I completed these this morning, sir," he
said, calmly, "and I would beg of you to look
over them and pardon the liberty I took in
making them out. I had a reason for doing
so."
Mr. Goiig looked at him attentively for a
moment.
"Mr. Montant," he asked, almost in a whis.
per, his voice trembling a little, "you have
been my confidential clerk, and there need be
no disguises between us. Tell me: after the
great losses we have had, the heavy personal
outlays I have made, and especially after the
sums which the factory has absorbed, do these
papers show that we are perfectly solvent ?'"
" Mr. Going, unless secret liabilities have
been incurred, of which I know nothing, you
are solvent, without a doubt," said the cashier,
d decisively. "I have estimated your personal
property- very low, and, I am  certain, that
should you wind up your affairs, you would
come out worth, at least, fifty thousand dol-
lars."
"That is, if I sold my houses and my count.
try place ?"
"Yes, sir."
"And without that?"
The other said nothing. There was some.
thing unspeakably sorrowful in the old gentle-
man's voice as lie said:-
"I need no answer. I knew it long ago
And not a dollar settled upon .e-"
He ceased abruptly. Our hero understood
him. In the days of his great wealth he had
not provided for his daughter.
"Read that document, Mr. Montant,' he re-
sumed, in a changed manner. "I only wish
to know whether you find any trivial objec-
tions in it."
Later in the day Montant returned the con-
tract with a bland face. Walter had come in,
and, as it happened, all three were too busy to
comment at length upon Hobgoblin ; but be-
fore the principals left the office, our hero said
to the old gentleman:-
"Will you allow me to pay you a visit in
Fifth Avenue, to-night? I would respectfully
ask a private interview with you of some half
an hour's duration."
" Certainly," replied Mr. Going, in a tone as
if he would prefer to say "certainly not."--
"Only you know that we have just moved
down from the Priory, and you will flnd the
house in disorder. Will you dine with us ?"

" You are very kind, sir, but I can not. If
you will permit, I will be there at eight."
CHAPTER VIII.
THE LAST APPEAL.
"Look, what I will not,
That I can not do."
MEASURE FOR MRAQuRL.
THE energetic clock struck six before Ernest
Montant laid down his pen and said to him-
self,--" Through."
Ile had finished many a trivial task, which,
on other days, would not have required com-
pletion. He had squared accounts and made
memoranda ; in fact, put affairs im a condition
to be continued by a successor. "Who knows
but what this may be my last day in this of-
flee ?" he said to himself before he left the
desk, and he took an affectionate farewell of
the little figure of Justice, still standing in
front of his portfolio.
The little bronze had seen many a face
since it first looked upon Martin Bates, long
years ago, but! upon none had its metal eyes
beamed more kindly than upon the young cash-
ier, for this man, at least, had done his duty
to his employers and to himself. It was his
duty to himself that led him to seek Mr. Going
to-night, and little Justice knew it, and held
out her little scales toward him affectionately,
as if to encourage him. But lie felt as if it
was bidding him farewell forever.
Our hero took a plain, substantial dinner
before he walked up town. A man bent upon
important business must be particular as re-
gards his feeding. le wants a beefsteak or a
chop, and a mug of good ale, and perhaps a
thimble-full of something stronger, that his
flesh may not cloud or embarrass his spirit by
becoming weak. So, at all events, our hero
thought, and so lie acted. Starting, then, for
his walk, lhe lighted a cigar, to aid digestion,
and proceeded up Broadway.
"I am not quite easy in my mind about
this," he soliloquized. " It looks well,.don't it,
for a mere boy-andh he a comparative stranger
-to be showing an old New York merchant
his duty and-his own interest. The result may
bring me to grief in more ways than one. What
if I should make an ass of myself. besides
losing a good place, with first-rate prospects for
the future."
But no after scruples could change his firm-
set purpose; nor could lie argue himself into
the belief that he was not acting up to all his
knowledgeof truth, right, and justice.
As ho ascended the steps in front of Mr.
Going's house, a strange desire came over him.
A desire to take particular notice of all trifling
objects; of the architectural points of the
stoop, of the door, of the windows, as if lie
should never again cross the threshold. -He
rang the bell, noticing the shape of the knob,
and when admitted by the man-servant, he
said "Good evening, James," i a tone which
would have suited "Good-bye, James," far
better. The hat-stand in the hall, the ban -

isters of the wide staircase, the few objects lie
could see through the open door of the par-
lors-each seemed worthy of his especial
notice to-day, and when he was informed that
Mr. Going awaited him in the library, down
stairs, he counted the steps as he descended,
and was surprised to see how high was the
ceiling of the basement, and what an extraor-
dinary fine basement it was, as if lie had not
seen it before.
He found his employer alone, reading the
newspapers. As he entered the room he
glanced around, and made a rough estimate of
the number of books contained in the shelves
that lined its walls, and the price they might
bring at an auction. But Mr. Going's kind
greeting, and invitation to an arm-chair, and a
glass of sherry, brought him to his senses,
nd he gathered his wits to say well and con-
cisely what lie had come to say.
" Mr. Going," he commenced, without hesi-
tancy, "my object is so serious that I had
better state it at once. I am compelled to re-
sign my situation in your office."
Mr. Going started ; but coniposing himself,
remained silent.
" I have left matters in such a condition,
that my successor will find no difficulty in
going right on. It was to accomplish this that
I made out those statements I handed to you
this afternoon. Walter knows that my ac-
counts are correct, for he has not left me as
much to myself as he did my unfortunate pre-
decessor. I hope there can be no doubt of the
purity of my motives, or of my most heartfelt
regret at leaving you. I wish to express my
Gratitude for all the kindness  you have
showered upon me, and now I have only to
receive your permission to leave, which 1 am
sure you will not fail to grant me in a kindly
spirit, though  my request is sudden and'
anomalous."
"Quite sudden and anomalous," repeated
Mr. Going. with a hoarseness in his voice.
" And yet it is necessity alone that prompts
me," said our hero.
" Mr. Montant," said the old gentleman,
after a pause, and with that dignity of tone
and manner which never forsook him, " we
have known each other well enough, known
each other as friends well enough, to permit an
old man like me to ask your reasons. Of
course I should be delighted to hear that you
can better your condition; hut you are yet
very young; and as you probably know no one
in this city better able or more willing to ad-
vise you, I would ask  you, for your own
interest, to consult me upon so important a
step. Still, I do not press this upon you;
and if you think best to let the matter rest
here, we have nothing to do but part without
enmity."
" Mr. Going," said our hero, slowly, "I dare
not give you my reasons, unless you-first of
all-assure me that you will not be offended.
And you can not well promise that in advance."
"I am quite certain that you will not say
any thing to offend me."
" Will you then promise me, in the event of
my remarks meeting with your disapprobation,
that you will try to forget this interview, and,

I"  ,F  14 1
;  ,, i
. ,,2
. +  ,.
,
" ,
,,,,,,
, r
; y ~;
y J
'
;
t  '
,iti

FACT.                        67


GOING AND SON.

if you think of me at all, remember only the
past, striking from your memory the words
which I indeed wish to say to-night ?"
There was an anxious earnestness in his
tone which, perhaps, warned Mr. Going what
was coming; but seemingly determined to hear
him out, the old gentleman only knit his
brows a little, and answered gravely-
"That I can and will promise ; I will only
think of you as a faithful and most valued
assistant in my office, and an esteemed guest at
my house. What you have to say, say frankly,
and exhaust the subject, that we may dismiss
and erase it forever, if we see fit to do so."
"Very well, sir, I will now speak my whole
mind. I came here a poor, friendless boy.
The world was all darkness to me, and I had
nothing but a deep religious principle-to do
right always-and a strong faith that God
would help me. I was, and still am, deter-
mined to act according to the teachings of my
conscience, be the cost what it may.
" Alone and inexperienced, without a bond
of sympathy between me and another being on
this side of the Atlantic, I came into your
office, and from the first moment you showed
yourself, what you ever since have been, the
kindest, the most generous of men. You
bound me to you for life. This debt I can
never discharge; but if ever the time shall
come when I can serve you, you shall find me
ready and glad of the opportunity."
The evident reality of the young man's senti-
ments did not fall unheeded upon Mr. Going's
ears. Unable to repress his feelings, lie said,
sadly:-
" And you prove this by leaving me at a
time when you know well that I urn in need
of your help ?"
"That help, sir, should be yours were I
never to receive a dollar of remuneration ; but
well and faithfully as I would serve you, I
can not serve under the llohgoblin Company I"
" And may I ask, why not, sir ?" inquired
Mr. Going, coldly.
"I think, sir," answered our hero, after
a moment's reflection, "that since we have
entered upon this discussion, I had better un-
burden myself completely, at once and forever,
of all that clouds my affection for you.
" You propose to sell to the Hohgoblin
Mining and Manufacturing Company your farm,
factory, and patents, for which they will give
you only fifty thousand dollars, in cash. You
have already expended several times that
amount upon the enterprise, so that this fifty
thousand dollars does not make your losses
good to any material extent. Besides, you
hold the company's notes for one hundred
thousand dollars. These notes, however, you
will soon see, are perfectly worthless. You
dare not sue the company for the value of
them, should they never be paid, for a lawsuit
would be noised abroad, and stop all sales of
shares. None of the trustees have indorsed
them, and you can only look.for their payment
to that misty creature-the company. Finally,
you pledge all your shares to Mr. Chip for the
payment of his loan of two hundred thousand
dollars. This money is not loaned to you, and
yet you have to give security for its repay-.

meant. On the other hand, you make over to
the company a large amount of merchantable
property-buildings, and real estate, and ma.
chinery-all of which has a fixed value. You
receive therefor, what?   Not even these
doubtful shares, for they are in Mr. Chip's
hands, and if the trustees choose to treat you
wrongfully, it is in their power to keep from
paying him his money for years, thus depriv-
ing you of your stock, while they can sell off
their own stock at their pleasure. You may say
that they have agreed to hold their stock till
you and Mr. Chip are paid every dollar ; but,
sir, you must know better than that; many
pleasant little secret arrangements can be
made, which will never reach your ears, by
virtue of which they can really sell their stock,
and yet prove in a court of law that no acteual
bonafide sale ever took place. I have read the
contract carefully, and I say that it is a
villainous attempt to place you entirely at their
tender mercies. But this is not all."
So far he had spoken in a quiet, dispas-
sionate, but most decided manner. In the quiet.
ness of the room every word fell with telling
effect upon Mr. Going's car,- and impressed
itself upon his mind with the irresistible force
of sober truth. He felt uneasy and distressed,
and at the last sentence looked quickly at
Montant, as if to say, "Is it not enough ?"
" This is not all," continued the latter,
quickly, though without raising his voice.
" There is also a moral reason why I can not be
the servant of the house which allows itself to
be inveigled into a complication of such a
nature. The public, Mr. Going, will think
that the company pays you two millions of dol-
lars for a property which in reality has cost
at the most only three hundred and fifty thou-
sand dollars-first cost, improvements, and all.
The trustees give you very little cash, and only
one million in stock, and the other one million
these trustees put in their pockets ! Now, sir,
if a poor tailor or shoemaker invests his hard-
earned savings in Iobgoblin, he buys an in-
terest in what has only cost half what he is
told it cost. This I boldly brand as obtaining
money fraudulently, and I am sure if these
trustees were hauled up before a jury, their
action would be called robbery. Of course I
know that these things are done every day,
and by men of the highest standing in society;
but, poor and friendless as I am, I decline to'be
connected with any such operations. If I re-
mained in your service I should only be a hin-
derance to you, for if any one asked me about
this Hobgoblin Company, I should feel it my
duty to tell the truth about it, so I should do
better to go away."
" At your age, Mr. Montant," said the old
gentleman, still kindly, one is apt to speak cick
words hastily. I do not feel offended by your
freedom, but I deem it useless to argue the
point, for your resolution is evidently taken.
And now that we have done with that subject,
will you tell me what your plans are for the
future ?"
" I don't know, sir," answered our hero,
sadly, " I had almost hoped--"
" To shake me in my determination to ful-
fill an agreement into which I entered, ver.-

bally long ago, by telling me that my oldest
and best friends in business-"
"Oh, Mr. Going!" cried the other, " they 1
will not be friends any longer. From  the
moment that contract is signed, you will see aI
change in them allI"e
The old gentleman bit his lips. Here his
young clerk was certainly right. Had he notr
already noticed this change in Fatman, Chip,f
and Paradise?
" I wish," continued Ernest Montant, now
pleading his cause with all the fervid energy
he could command, " I wish my hair were grayE
and my head bowed down by the experienceI
of old age, that you might heed my voice! If
you draw a line through that hideous page in
your ledger, headed Hlobgoblin-if you decide
to lose every cent it has cost you, you are still
solvent, still well off. Thea, sir, give Walter
-and, let me say it-give me a chance to]
work for you. With the glorious old name of
your house, sir, we can do any thing! I will
work as a broker, as a clerk, in any honorable
capacity, and I will not ask you for a dollar
but what is absolutely necessary for my liveli-
hood!"
The old gentleman was not unmoved by this
speech. Its wisdom was not lost upon him,
nor did the glowing enthusiasm of the speaker
fail to impress him.
"You seem very warmly attached to this
house, Mr. Montant," he said, looking him full
in the face.
Our hero colored violently. Perhaps he
had misunderstood hin, perhaps not, but he
answered very promptly,-
"I do not quite comprehend your meaning,
sir, but I will anticipate any equivocation by
assuring you that my motives are in no respect
selfish. Even had I ever presumed to aspire
to a closer connection with you; even had I
been fool enough to hope for a social distinc-
tion entirely above my own condition, all auch
dreams would long since have ceased, for I am
at present engaged to be married."
Mr. Going received this communication,
made in self defense, with genuine astonish-
ment, but like the delicately refined gentleman
that he was, he made a slight bow in acknowl-
edgment of the information, and said nothing.
"At the same time," continued our: hero, I
would not allow this or any other tie to keep
me from serving you, if I could but be allowed
to work in the way my inmost - soul has
prompted me to point out to you. If I leave
this house to-night, without gaining my object,
I leave it a poor and lonely wanderer, without
a friend in the world but a woman as poor
and lonely as I am.  If I go it is not sel-
fishness, surely which sends me from you-"
" What is it, then, Mr. Montant ?" interupted
the old gentleman. " It is stubbornness. Nay,
do not interrupt me, for as you have spoken
plainly to me, I should think I might express
my opinions too. You have scarce attained the
age of manhood, sir, and you tell me that what
I can sanction, what my good name can agree
to is not worthy of your simple co-operation!
I can not argue such a point with you. I can
only say that such is not my view of the case,
and I appeal to the commercial world of this

city, whether a young man like you may or
may not allow himself to follow where I
ead!"
He paused a moment. Montant felt what
would be the unanimous reply of the thou-
sands down town who look up to this man
with envy, admiration, timidity, or simple
respect, and that in their view, he was now
acting a very strange part in refusing to be
convinced by Mr. Going's kindness and con-
descension, for it was nothing less for him to
listen to such a conversation. But call it
eccentric, call it boyish, call it what you pleasd,
he stuck to his point, keeping a stern silence
after Mr. Going's last words.
" Ernest," continued Mr. Going, in a changed
tone and manner, " stay with me! Do not
leave me, for if you do, we shall both regret
it! I have opened to you my heart and my
house ; I have treated you as a friend, almost
as a son! And now, when I want help, you
desert me, and spoil your own career. You
are throwing away your best opportunities,
and alienating those who should have become
dear to you."
Never before had he called our hero by
his first name, and there was a something in
his voice, that showed that.he was growing
weak, that he wanted help; that he had leaned
upon and cherished this boy, and the loss of
him was a pang which he had no longer the
power to hide beneath his grand dignity.
Ernest Montant's eyes tilled with tears. Ho
knew that argument had lost its power; that
by no human means could he prevail upon his
venerated friend to give up. this accursed
scheme, which alone kept them asunder, and
lie was much moved by this appeal made to
his heart. He arose quickly, agitated beyond
mere conventionality, seized Mr. Going's hand,
and with a faltering voice, said:-
"The time will come when I can prove to
you that those last words of yours conic home
to my heart, and then will I serve you faith-
fully. But stay with you in this damnable
enterprise, I can not. I have seen my father
ruined, worse than ruined, and I have sworn to
choose a different path in life from that which
led him to misery, as little deserved, as you in
your kindliness and generosity, deserve the
fate which I see gathering like a black cloud
over your future. Since we cannot agree, let me
say farewell, and believe me when I say, that,
next my own father, I love and honor you."
He turned to the door. Mr. Going's face
had resumed its expression of calm, self-reli-
ance. le arose stiffly from his chair.
"Since it must be, farewell. Shall we see you
to-morrow ?"
"I think not, sir. I shall stay in New York
a few days, and will be on hand should my
successor require help or explanation, which,
however, I can not imagine he will."-
" And about your salary?     Have you
drawn it?" asked Mr. Going, in his business
tone.
' I have addressed a few lines to Walter,
asking him to send the amount due me, as soon
as he has examined my accounts. Good night,
sir !"
"Good night, Mr. Montant I"

68

FACT.

69

jll
{r'
I;,ID
,; 1
+I l!t
E!'

ft
itt('
f  j'


GOING AND SON.

FACT.                            71

Our hero was gone. Mr. Going listened
to his quick steps up-stairs, and sank back ex-
hausted into his chair.
" They all leave me," he muttered. "Old
Chip, then Paradise, followed by Fatman, and
finally, this strange boy !  I don't know
why, but this last loss seems the heaviest I"
Thoughts fly quickly while the mind is on
the wing, and as Ernest Montant strode to-
ward the door which was to close on him for-
ever, he thought bitterly:-
"Accursed be this craving for riches, which
distorts honor and integrity. Twice accursed
be the evil genius of this age, which leads men
to strive for a fortune in a day, or to retrieve
lost wealth by luck instead of work!/ Thrice
accursed be the spirits of wanton speculation,
luxury, and recklessness, which are undermin-
ing all respectability and clearing the way for
King Hazard to hold high rule I"
He reached the parlor door, which stood
wide open. He looked in, and there she sat,
waiting for him perhaps all this time. There
she was, in the beauty of her youth, with her
black hair surrounding her marvelously lovely
face, with a light in her eyes as she advanced
toward him.
"Miss Jessie," he said, hurriedly, "I really
did not expect to meet you here."
She was trembling violently ; her look, her
voice, her gestures betrayed her emotion.
" You have been talking with papa," she
said. "I heard the voices. You have had a
quarrel. You are going to leave us. I know
it all."
"You are right, Miss Jessie," he answered,
sadly. "I must say, good-bye !"
"And all about llobgobhin, is it not?" she
asked, despondingly.
"All about hobgoblin,"   he  answered,
fiercely.
"Can it not be mended ?" she cried, impa-
tiently. "Remember your promise to me ! I
feel im my heart that all is going on wrong,---
all is black, black as night ! Remember your
promise to stay by papa in the hour of need."
"I keep human promises, humanly," he an-
swered, bitterly. "I have gone the length of
my rope. I can do no more."
For an instant, one only, she looked him full
in the face with her large black eyes, her
color all gone from her, and then she turned
away.
"Can you forgive me ?" he cried, no longer
master of himself.
"(Go," she muttered, her face still averted.
" Can you send me thus from you," he asked,
in despair, " without a word of kindness, or of
comfort, when, God knows, I need it."
No human eye saw her face, as she ex-
tended her hand to him    without turning
around.
"If you mean what you say, stay.     I
know papa has not been unkind to you."
"Indeed, indeed, no!" he cried, "but yet
there are differences-"
"Go, then,". she repeated, bitterly, at the
same time withdrawing her hand.
He stood a moment, concentrated all his
will-power in one grand effort to for-ce her to
turn her face to him; hesitated, wavered, and

then seized his hat, and was gone in an in.
stant.
The sound of the closing front door seemed
to rouse her from her attitude of repression.
She stood a moment unmoved, then rushed
toward the door, and with a love that knew no
more control, cried,--
"No! no! no!"
She.checked herself. Her own violence had
brought her to her senses. She turned round
with alarm and dread, and there-there, not
five feet from her, stood her father, with his
face as pale as death.
With a loud sob she threw herself into her
father's arms, and they held each other in such
an embrace as would have moved even Ernest
Montant, could he have seen it.
The skies were draped in the black gar-
ments of the first wintry storm. The streets
were cheerless and deserted, while the cold
blast and icy-penetrating drizzle suited well
the emotions which agitated our hero's breast
as he left that house. In one short hour he
had again become a wanderer, an outcast from
what had been a bright and cherished home
to him, just as he had once, left the house of
his father and mother.
He felt miserable and dejected, absolutely
friendless and homeless as the veriest vagrant,
and yet he should not have felt so. As lie be-
came calmer, there came to him the thought
of Josephine. Had he not an asylum then?
Ue who called himself homeless-he who
called himself friendless-did lie not possess a
woman's heart, and possess it entirely ? Was
there not one breast which beat for him and
him alone who thought himnselfforsaken. And
the more lie thought of Josephine Van Strom,
the more settled became his purpose to seek
her in his misery, and never to part from her
again.
CHAPTER IX.
REUNION.
My life upon her faith."
OTELLO.
READER, have you been in the State of Mas-
sachusetts, and are the charms of her scenery
familiar to you?  Have you roamed through
the woods and over the hills, along the streams
and through the fields, fascinated by those
charms of nature that do not aspire to the
awful, but content themselves with enchanting
one by their soft and smiling loveliness ?
On a high bluff which broke the onward
course of one of those rivers and turned it
aside by a sharp curve, so that the view on
all sides was varied and picturesque, there
stood a large wooden house, somewhat preten-
tious in its architecture, and well suited to the
grotesque beauty of the spot. This was the
home of John Jacob Van Strom, Junior, and
had been purchased by him as a retreat where
he could live very quietly amid modestly with
his faithful wife, our old friend Della, and his
sister-in-law the handsome widow.

On an afternoon, late in the fall, an after-
noon glowing in the last effort of nature to
make the earth beautiful once more before
resigning it to the cold embrace of winter, we
find the two sisters-for sisters they were-in
law, in sympathy, in confidence, and in love,
sitting upon the veranda and enjoying the
view.
"The village looks charming from here,"
said Josephine. "The little white houses
peeping out between the trees or standing in
clusters, scattered over the landscape like in-
nocent sheep in a green meadow, and the
church with its belfry and little gothic windows
shining in the sunlight, an emblem of sweet
simplicity."
suAre you happy here, Josephine ?" asked
Bella, looking wistfully at her sister. The
widow had not changed, only the old expres-
sion of Raphael's Madonna came over her no-
ble face oftener than before. And now, as she
gazed upon the village, and out into the blue
hazy distance beyond, and watched the current
of the river as it flowed away from her, this
peculiar resemblance to the Madonna was very
noticeable. " That river flows to the sea," she
thought, 4 and on that sea there is a certain
port, a city of a million or more inhabitants,
and of that million I know  one," and the
thought gave her life, hope, happiness.
"Shall I guess what you are thinking of?"
asked Bella, gently, stealing Josephine's warm
hand avay from her lap and holding it in her
own.
The handsome widow smiled and colored,
but answered in the deep metallic-voice we
have heard before,-
"I don't deny it, dear; I am thinking of
him, but not now, only, always! So you see
there is nothing so wonderful in my present
dreaming."
" Josie," said Bella, softly, " do you think he
will come to you soon?"
"1I don't know, dear. I am anxious, worried
beyond description. He has not written to
me in some time, and there was more of busi-
ness than of love in his last letter. Bella, I
think it looks dubious when our lovers write
to us that business is so absorbing. It may be
that business does increase to monstrous pro-
portions; but it looks as though love had dwin-
dled correspondingly, till it has become a more
secondary consideration."
"Very true," said Bella, with a strange
smile.
" And I can't feel as confident of his love,
as-reliant as-I would like, somehow," said
Josephine, with a sigh.
" And so you don't think he will come," said
Bella, mischievously.
" What should make him come ?" asked Jo-
sephine sadly, " He is a beggar and I-"
"And you are the sister of an immensely
rich woman," said Bella, in the best of good
humors.
" What do you mean me to understand by
such a change in the tone of your remarks ?"
said Josephine, turning her eyes full upon her
sister-in-law. "This is the first time that you
have ever favored this love affair of mine with
encouraging remarks. You used to scold me,

call me a rash, impetuous creature, and tell ie
that I ought to be ashamed to bestow my love
so soon, and prate away about my attractions
and fascinations, which, practically, do not lay
the world at my feet or even the smallest
part of it I"
"Is he not even a small part of the world ?"
asked Bella, merrily. -' You strange woman !
To love a man who is nobody. lie is not a
part of the world?   Oh! Josie, is he an
angel?"
Josephine leaned over to her and gave her
a warm kiss.
" Now just hear this," continued Bella, in
the same tone. " This woman is trying to
make me believe that she does not know how
beautiful and bewitching she is."
"Scoff away," said Josephine, laughingly.
" I am going to speak seriously now," rejoin-
ed the tailor's daughter with a sedate face. " I
have come to the conclusion that you two love
each other sincerely and truly, and my
majesty is graciously inclined to favor the
match."
"Have you news from him ?" asked Joseph-
ine, quickly. Her face colored crimson in an
instant.  She aproached Bella, put her arms
around her, kissed he, and with tears already
starting to her eyes, repeated in passionate
entreaty,-
" Have you news from him? Tell me; oh,
tell me. Do not keep mae in this suspense.
Something tells nie you have !"
" I have," answered Bella, calmly.
"Then tell me - oh, how can you be so
cruel!"
" Do you think he will come to you soon ?"
asked Bella, looking slyly aside from where
they were sitting.
Josephine, whose intuition told her instantly
that something was coming, became suddenly
pale, a vague fear possessed her heart, and al-
most stifled her voice as she gasped,-
"Is the news bad. Tell me, for heaven's
sake. I can bear it. Is lie-"
"Sit down, you little goosy, and compose
yourself," answered Bella, smiling, " for you
may as well. Ile wrote me that lie was com-
ing on here."
" Thank God, cried Josephine, tears of joy
and gratitude streaming down her cheeks.
"But why didn't he write to me ?"
" Because lie had a vague idea that I was a
sensible, honest woman, and he first wished to
be informed whether he had any rivals to fear,
or whether your heart was still all his own, so
that he might receive it at your hands with-
out a hinderance."
" le, rivals " cried Josephine, clasping her
hands, over her face, " a hinderance, between
him and my heart I"
- Touched by the earnestness of her excla-
mations, Bella now approached, and kissed her
warmly.
" Tut, tut," she said, "I understand you now
and I am satisfied. Compose yourself, for lie
may be coming soon."
"Soon?".cried Josephine, radiant with joy,
" Tell me, tell me quickly, darling, when is he
coming?"
" You must not speak so loud, Josie," an-

70

31


GOING AND SON.

swered Bella, with a bright and happy face
"for some one may be listening," and again
she cast a sly glance behind her.
Josephine followed the look. The form of
a man had emerged from the house, and now
stood a few feet from them. She started to her
feet, looked at him for a moment, and with a
cry of ecstasy. rushed into his arms.
"My darling, my own lover !" was all she
could mutter, as she nestled her head upon his
breast and wound her arms around him, hold-
ing him in a passionate embrace, as if never
again to release him.
He could not say a word. He had heard
the latter part of their conversation, and all
his sorrows, doubts, and fears vanished in the
presence of such love as this woman had con-
fessed for him. The gallant tailor's daughter,
she of low degree, but high and noble mind,
stood by with moistened eyes and a smile so
bright and happy, that it lent radiance and
even beauty to her plain face.
"I have you t I hold you I whispered Jo-
sephine, still clasped tightly in his embrace

CHAPTER I.
JOHN VAN STROM MAKES HIS WILL.
"Be comfort to my age! Here is the gold :
All this I give you.' -As You LIKE IT.
ALL hail to the woman that can make a lov-
ing study of her husband's imperfections! All
hail to the worker where others would weep;
for she will find pleasure where others would
only reap bitterness !
Bella Van Strom loved her husband, not po-
etically, not romantically, but with the whole
integrity of her honest soul. Her great trials
had wrought a great change in her character,
She had been a wild, ambitious, venturesome
girl; but when her last and greatest madcap
freak, her marriage, as recorded in the early
part of this book, had forced her to face such
consequences as the fatal masquerade at the
Priory, her gratitude to him who had made
her life more than she had ever expected it
could be, and her sense of duty developed
traits of character heretofore unknown, and,
as we have seen, she bravely, did what she
could, becoming the most devoted of wives,
the most careful of nurses, the most faithful
of friends, and the most conscientious manager
of her husband's affairs.
As she had risen, so her unfortunate hus-
band, John Van Strom, declined, sunk into

and half delirious with joy. "Will you, can
you again leave me, darling ?"
"No," said Ernest Montant, kissing her up.
turned lips and drinking in the luxury of love in
the looks they exchanged. "You may take me
as I am, cast away by the world; forsaken and
alone, a wanderer and a stranger to all but you."
"And me," said the tailor's daughter, softly.
"Bella," cried Josephine, in the fullness of
her heart, extending one hand to her, while,
with the other, she still clung to him, " as I
pray for all that I need and receive, so shall I
pray to God, all the rest of my life, that he
may bless you forever I" '
" Amen," said our hero, solemnly, and
the three sat down together and watched the
sun sinking in the west, and the moon rise
softly over the hills. They talked of all that
friendship and hearty good-will gave them in
common, until Bella said that she had to go in
and see her husband. So at last the lovers
were left alone to enjoy the beauty of the
earth, this glorious night, and the bliss of the
heaven which was in their hearts.

perfect subserviency to her stronger organiza-
tion, became like a doll, seemed to have no in-
tellect of his own where mind should compete
for the mastery. Yet John had not lost his
mind, but, by the time we again meet them,
Bella had succeeded in gaining complete con-
trol over it, repressing its mischievous out.
bursts, while encouraging all that was left him
of reason and sentiment. Nor was she afraid
of a return of the frenzy of intoxication to
which we have seen him subject, for she had
invented a harmless but effectual remedy, in.
case entreaty was too weak or circumstances
too unfortunate, to prevent his inebriation. She
provided herself with a harmless narcotic which
she mixed in a glass of wine when lie insisted
on taking too much, and so stole away' his
senses while she watched by his side until he
awoke, a weaker and a wiser man. But these
occasions grew more and more unfrequent, and
we find them a most peaceable and well-be-
haved couple, "the gray mare proving the
better horse," as John, in his more lucid mo-
ments, knew perfectly well, and admitted with
a contented laugh, for lie loved his wife, and,
unlike many people of more wits, was not
ashamed to acknowledge her superiority.
The day after the arrival of Ernest Montant
at Van Strom's, they were a merry party at the
breakfast table. John, presiding as host, pre-
sented no very imposing or dignified appearance,
but he was cheerful and comparatively bright in

his mind. Our hero noticed that he had grown
much older in his face since his father's death,
and really, to judge by his scant and fast-
blanching hair, his sunken cheeks, his sallow
complexion, the wrinkles that seamed his face
and surrounded his shapeless mouth, he might
have been considered an old man. Though
much thinner in flesh than ever before, and
though he stooped very much, he rarely com-
plained of bad health; while Bella was too
much occupied in watching his mental im.
provement to see that, judging from externals,
she might expect to be a widow before many
years had elapsed. John had no idea of the
true state of affairs between Josephine and his
new guest, but, as he really liked them both,
it seemed the proper thing to chaff them all
through breakfast; which the handsome wid-
ow, radiant with beauty and sparkling with
joy, accepted very graciously, to the evident
enjoyment of Bella and our hero, so that John,
delighted at his success, felt highly pleased
with every one else, Ile called Josephine
"my dear sister," and our hero "my esteemed
fridd," and his wife " my darling girl," and was
so lively and amiable that, before breakfast
was over, Bella had tears of joy and gratitude
in her eyes.
After the meal was concluded, Josephine
and her lover decided to take a walk, leaving
the master of the house alone with his wife,
thus giving Bella an opportunity which she
had eagerly watched for-a chance to talk
half an hour with him; while he was in the
best possible humor, on a subject of great im-
portance.
They were sitting by the window. She was
leaning her head on his shoulder and had tak-
en his hand, while an expression of cheerful
contentedness softened his worn features.
"John," she said, after thinking in silence a
few moments how best to approach the sub-
ject, "John, I want to talk business."
" Talk any thing you like, Bella," he replied,
kindly. ",Upon business, any how, I can an-
swer you in a manner worthy of your great
talents and intelligence, for I know something
about business,"
Now, although he said this with a childish
pride, it was not untrue. Notwithstanding
his shortcomings on other points, John was
what might be called a naturally shrewd busi-
ness man, and in matters where dollars and
cents alone were concerned, he rarely went
wrong or was deceived.
"Well, then, John, you know that you are
very richI" said Bella, without changing her
position, and speaking in a certain affectionate
and soothing tone to which he could listen for
hours without becoming wearied.
"Yes," said he, "I would not be surprised
if I could sell my property, real and personal,
for something over two millions of dollars.
That is, my mortgages, my railroad bonds, my
houses in town and my place here, besides my
silver and your diamonds."
"Which I never wesr," said Bella, laugh-
ing. " But never mind that, I appreciate your
kindness just as much. Well, now, John, I
wish you would make a will."
" What for, Bella ? We have no children ;

Oh, if you could only have a boy to inherit
the old name and all this money I"
" You know that is impossible, John," re-
plied Bella, gently, " so let us be thankful for
such happiness as God has given us, without
hankering after the impossible."
He said nothing.
S" Will you make your will, John ?" she
asked, after a pause.
" I don't see what you want with a will, I
don't mean to die, and the property will all go
to you anyway. Do you want me to die right
away, and do you want to be sure of the-?"
" John," she interrupted, seeing that he was
growing ill-tempered, rapidly, " John," taking
both his hands and catching his eye, in an im-
ploring, kind but steady glance, "you don't
mean what you say!"
He looked at her a moment. Even to him,
those eyes full of tenderness, spoke convinc-
ingly, and his rising choler was exorcised.
He took her to his heart and held her there in
a long embrace which reassured her.
" I want you, John, to leave half of all your
property to Josephine I"
He stared at her in utter bewilderment,
but she continued, quietly,-
" You know how your father treated her all
his life, and finally left her penniless, although
the widow of his first-born. Will you make
up for the error of your father?  This is
the, reason why I want you to make a will.
You have made her a small allowance now,
and I can not for the life of me see why she is
not entitled to half your father's estate. Mind
I don't ask you to give her any thing now,
unless-"
"Unless what?" said John, slightly be-
wildered.
"Unless she should marry I" said Bella,
slyly.
"'Well, when she gets married, we'll talk
about it," said John, assuming a business tone,
" and I can not see why I should leave her
any property in my will, because if I die-nay,
don't be distressed, I am talking business now
-if I should die, then you can give her what
you choose, you know."
" But I would rather have it the other way,"
said Bella, " because she is entitled to her por-
tion, and I would much rather she should re-
ceive it at your hands than from my charity.
I would give it to her any way."       -
" Well, it is all the same, one way or the
other" rejoined John, slightly impatient.
" Yes, dear, but is it not right for you to do as
I say? John, remember that we must all die,
and do not leave an act of justice undone when
opportunity offers you the chance to do it."
" And do you think, Bella," asked John,
simply, "that we can die the more easily for
doing what is right ?"
"Indeed I know    it I" she replied, fer-
vently.
" And have I always tried to do right by
you, Bella ?" he asked with a trembling voice
and quivering lip. " You know that I love
you dearly, but have I always tried to do right
by you ?"
" You have been nothing but kind, and gen-
erous and noble-hearted to me," she answered,

72

FELONY.

BOOK III.-FELO N Y.

'f ' 1
,
'
t 7 i
ii
I ;y
,
jl
,
,
f +,
i,
,;,
!fit
,
,{
I r

pit
4
t
}
'fl
r
i
i  t
1
'i} 5p'
'  t1i[ i
I Si
}fit'

.'i i  4
ali)
i
1, };'
'   I
f  '.
1t
r l
:'k
;llc


GOING AND SON.

weeping, "and I shall pray to God all my
days to reward you for it !"
Again for some time they were silent, but
Bella, as she held his poor weak head to her j
bosom, prayed an earnest prayer, a prayer of
faith and hope, that she might see the day
when the darkness should be lifted from his
soul, which in moments like the present one
seemed not far distant, and from that day
John seemed more docile and manageable. In
the meanwhile, before that interview ended
she carried her point, and after lunch (which
they eat alone, the two lovers being still away
in heaven knows what part of the country) a
messenger was dispatched to somebody who
lived within half an hour's ride, and two hours
later a tall form darkened the doorway of the
library where John and his wife awaited him.
It was their legal adviser, none other than ex-
Judge Bates, the brother of the disgraced and
discharged cashier of Messrs. Going &amp; Son.
lie was reputed the handsomest man of his
age in all the country round. Very tall and
well proportioned, his imposing figure was
well sustained by a stateliness of manner al-
most too aristocratic for a citizen of this free
and democratic country. lie wore no beard,
his features were finely cut in a noble mold,
his complexion exceedingly delicate, piercing
black eyes and long snow-white locks, falling
down to his coat collar, intelligence enthroned
upon his lofty forehead, austerly dignified,
calm pride, and self-reliance in every gesture,
and every slow spoken word of his clear ring-
ing voice ; this was Judge Eben Bates of Mas-
sachusetts.
"Judge," said John Van Strom, after the
usual greetings, " I have asked you to step up
here because I want to make my will."
" I am at your service, sir," answered the
lawyer. " Do you wish your wife to be pre-
sent ?"
" I think the law does not prohibit her at-
tendance ?" said John, sharply.
"Not that I am aware of, sir."  So they
proceeded to business, John had prepared a
list of his property, and divided it equally be-
tween his wife and Josephine Van Strom.
Judge Bates, at this point, opened his eyes as
wide as his dignity permitted and glanced side-
ways at Bella with strange and irrepressible
wonder at her happy smile.
" According to this document, sir," said
Judge Bates, sonorously, "your wife receives
only half your property."
"Quite right, old gentleman,=' said John
leaning back into Bella's arms, which awaited
him.
"Quite right, and very satisfactory, sir,"
corroborated Bella, tersely.
"Before it escapes my memory," said Judge
Bates, laying down his pen (for he had been
taking notes), with apparent indifference, " I
would beg leave to interrupt you a moment.
You remember that matter of fifteen thousand
dollars, which you were good enough to ad-
vance me upon a second mortgage upon my
house ?"
" A second mortgage, sir ?" asked John,
quickly, coloring with sudden astonishment.
" I thought it was a first mortgage."

" I told you distinctly, sir, that I had already
given a first mortgage on my house to another
party," said the old lawyer, in a tone of in-
ured innocence.
"I did not understand it that way, sir,"
rejoined John, sharply. " You said that you
were about paying off a mortgage which had
become due, and out of respect to you, I did
not have the county records examined t" and
John would have said more had not his
wife nudged him to control himself. Ever
sensible to her admonitions he stopped here,
though his face betrayed his angry feelings on
the subject.
"I am astonished at your misinterpretation,
sir," answered Judge Bates.   " That first
mortgage is going to be paid off and you may
consider yours a first mortgage with impunity,
I used the term second for the sake of adhering
to the present legal condition of the caseI"
All right," said John, ill-humoredly. " Let
us resume our business."
" You do not wish to leave any thing to any
one else f" asked Eben Bates, pointedly, peer-
ing out from beneath his bushy white eye.
brows at his client.
With a woman's quick     intuition Bella
thought that he was fishing for something to
be left to him-perhaps fifteen thousand dol-
lars to pay off his own mortgage, and at the
thought she could hardly conceal her anger
and loathing for the old lawyer, in spite of his
white hair and venerable countenance.
"Nothing to any one else," said John,
dryly.
" Now please to name your executors,"'said
Judge Bates, resuming his pen without be-
traying any feeling of disappointment.
"For executrix, Bella Van Strom, my wife,
for executor, added as an assistant and adviser
to her, Ernest Montant of New York."
"How do you spell that name ?" asked
Judge Bates, between his teeth, as he bent
over his paper to write it down; and after it
was correctly written, he said-
" May I be permitted to ask, considering my
many yaars'and professional experience, who
is this Mr. Montant ? Considering my posi-
tion as your solicitor, sir, I think it my duty
to advise you to appoint some lawyer, one in
whom you repose trust and confidence, to the
all important office of executor I"
"Mr. Bates," answered John, quickly, "you
may either write out my last will and testa-
ment, or you can leave it alone. I have not
asked any counsel from you, and if you think
you can push yourself into this position of
executor, you have got into the wrong box
with me, I assure you."
"Such words as those you have spoken,
sir," said Judge Bates, with an angry flash of
his black eyes, "are unbecoming for you to
utter, or for me to hear I I trust my age and
reputation will sufficiently protect me from
such vile accusations as you have taken the
liberty to express. Were it not for the respect
I have for your old name, and the mem-
ory of your father, I should certainly leave
this room at once, never to return."
Again Bella had to interfere, and make
peace between them. As the old lawyer was

not really anxious to make good his declara-
tion of war, and John's rising temper was
easily repressed by her experience, she suc-
ceeded.  The consequence was that Judge
Bates exhibited once more his better nature,
and John regained his good humor, even
inviting his late opponent to stay to dinner,
which the old lawyer gladly accepted. And
so John Van Strom's will was made.
"I am really glad to accept your invitation,"
said Judge Bates; " for my daughter Bessie is
not at home to-day, and I am miserable with-
out her company."
" Your brother, Mr. Martin Bates, is at your
house, I believe," said Bella, carelessly.
" Yes, ma'am; but he and I have never been
of the same tastes or dispositions. I gave
him an asylum at my house because he was
poor and friendless. I will always extend
hpitality to those who are in need; but sym-
pathy and affection can not be bestowed from
a mere sense of duty upon objects of general
charity."
Josephine Van Strom and our hero came
home to dinner. The blush caused by fresh
air and exercise was on her cheeks ; certainly
it was only the blush of healthy exertion out
of doors. Maybe her face unconsciously be-
trayed the raptures of love which had been
hers this happy day. Bella alone knew the
real cause that made her eyes brighter, her
cheeks redder, and her expression so radiant
with happiness, for their engagement, their
love was not as yet promulgated. So, when
Bella wicked at Josephine in her mischievously
sly manner, the fair widow could not choose
but blush, while Ernest Montant vainly en-
deavored to conceal the fact that lie was in
very high spirits, and mightily proud of some
new thing. He soon found an opportunity to
take Bella aside and whisper to her:-
"Good luck, sister-in-law ! I am poor, and
deserted by nearly all my old friends; but to-
day I feel able to fight the whole world I"
Isere John Van Strom came up with Judge
Bates, and imtrosduced the gentlemen to each
other. When this little ceremony was over,
the old lawyer turned to his host, with a look
of astonishment, at the evident youth of the
appointed executor, and asked:
"Is it possible that this gentleman is Mr.
Ernest Montant, sir ?"
John Van Strom looked a moment at our
hero, as though to be sure of his identity;
then placing both hands behind his back,
answered, with a decided bow and decisive
tone, Yes, sir."
The old lawyer did not seem inclined to
court the acquaintance of John Van Strom's
executor, in future, and  Ernest Montant,
although much impressed by the noble ap-
pearance of the old gentleman, was not the
nan to make advances without encouragement.
All the more did Judge Bates devote himself
to Josephine Van Strom at dinner, bestowing
upon her a hundred little marks of attention
and gallantry, which she, being in a very
good humor, received very graciously. Our'
hero muttered,-
"Hang his extraordinary politeness. If he
Were twenty years younger, upon my word I'd

be jealous. Of course gallantry in old gentle-
men is very well to a certain extent, but I
rather think Judge Bates carries it a little
further than any one else I ever saw. Posi-
tively, it seems to me more like foppishness."
And then Martin Bates. cane before his
memory's gaze, as he had sat opposite him in
the English club-house, when narrating the
scenes of his life, given in a previous chapter;
and with the voice of the old cashier still ring-
ing in his ears, as he execrated his heartless
brother, he gazed upon the judge's innocent
face, and said to himself,-
" This is the man who is accused of betraying
his brother,-this man, with every mark of
high-toned dignity,-of having permitted that
brother to suffer a terrible disgrace for crime
which he, this white-haired emblem of virtue
and honor, had committed. Is it possible ?
Did Martin lie?"
And as lie contemplated the stately figure
before him, and noted the expression of the
noble face, he doubted no longer but that
Martin had indeed lied.
CHAPTER II.
Two BRoTHERs.
"I know her answer."
.Whast?"
" She will net."
"The fouler fortune mine, and there an end."
''AMING OF THE SHEEW.
Wiax Martin Bates left the office of Going
&amp; Son he felt as though every door was
closed to him that might have led another to
competence or support, and wandered around
the city like an accursed spirit.
Several days afterward Judge BaM      all
unconscious of his brother's ill-fortune, was
sitting at tea with his daughter, at his own
house, in Massachusetts. Miss Bessie, only
child of his first wife, whom he had married in
England, under the circumstances related by
Martin in his confidential mood, to our hero,
assumed the duties of housewife. In these
duties she was assisted by an old housekeeper,
well-bred, and deeply attached to the family.
No wonder, then, that Miss Bessie's father
was loath to encourage her marriage. No
wonder that when Walter Going paid his ad-
dresses to her the old lawyer was glad to find
in the young gentleman's acknowledged reck-
lessness, rather wild manner, and loose views,
a valid excuse to oppose the match. But
reason proposes and love disposes, and the two
had secretly reached the relationship in which
we have seen them at the Priory; in fact, they
were engaged without her father's knowledge,
or slightest suspicion.
Judge Bates was the most rigid observer of
moral principles in the village, and said a long
extempore grace befot-e each meal. In this
exemplary devotion he was this night inter-
rupted by a ring at the front door. The ser-
vant entered with a perplexed face.
"An old man outside, sir. I don't know
who lie is ; sure. he don't look like a gentle-

I

75

ii I
? i
t
p
?
ti
i
}
r
7'

FELONY-.


76                    GOING AND SON.

man, and" not like a blag-gard, saving your
presence ; and he want's to see the Jidge,
ma'am." So Judge Bates forgot the half-fin-
ished grace, and went to the door.
He staid away five minutes, ten minutes,
half an hour. Miss Bessie had tea removed.
She then sat down by the fire-still necessary
in the evening, though by the calendar it was
almost summer-and listened to the storm
which was howling around the house, and rat-
tling in the chimney. Still her father did not
return. A horrible feeling of anxiety came
over her; but she did not deem it prudent to
go and search him out; so, still she waited and
listened. It seemed to her that there were un-
wholesome voices in the air; a vague presenti-
ment of evil possessed her; by degrees she
grew nervous, and finally decided to go and see
what was keeping him so long ; but as she
arose to go to the door, it opened, and her
father appeared, pale and agitated. le was
not alone; an old man followed him, with tot-
tering steps, who, without speaking a word,
or raising his downcast eyes, seemed to grope
his way to the fire, and there crouched,
shivering. Bessie looked at him with a strange
awe. His sunken eyes, his attenuated fea-
tures, his shreds of uncombed gray hair, his
trembling limbs, his shabby coat, wet with
rain, his whole appearance repulsive, frightened
her; but there was something familiar in it
all. She stood, affrighted, gazing and wonder-
ing, until her father, who had regarded the
stranger with a cold, disdainful look, broke the
spell by saying, sternly:-
"This is your Uncle Martin, Bessie, of
whom I have sometimes spoken to you. You
can make his acquaintance to-morrow; at pres-
ent you will oblige us by leaving the room,
for we have business of importance to dis-
cuss."
She advanced a step as if to welcome her
uncle; but Martin Bates did not look up, or
seem to be aware of her presence. So she
timidly left the room to spend the rest of the
evening in fear and anxiety, and then to bed,
to dream of Uncle Martin, in the most horri-
ble manner, for he appeared to her in the
most un-uncle-like shapes, and oppressed her
with the most ingenious tortures of dream-land.
Judge Bates took a seat opposite his bro-
ther, and both stared silently into the fire for
a long while until the servant brought in a
bottle of brandy and some hot water, which
she placed upon a table between the two and
left the room.
"I had to send to the village for this," said
Eben Bates, ill-humoredly, " for not a drop
of the vile stuff is ever kept in my house,
sir.s
"I would not have asked for it, brother,
were I not chilled through and totally ex-
hausted. Although I habitually use spirits, yet
I respect your abstinence."
" Which should be made law1" said Judge
Bates, sternly. Martin nodded demurely.
" You are celebrated for all the virtues," he
said, slowly, still keeping his gaze fixed on the
fire. "Whether you .have true charity in
your heart, is a question between you and
your God!"

"We are judged by what we do," answered
the elder brother. "I have devoted myself to
the promulgation of high moral ideas."
" Promulgation by force ?" queried Martin, in
a low voice.
"If necessary, yes !"  "I would make total
abstinence a law ! At any cost I would make
slavery illegal! I would-"
"Stop; would you break the chains of the
slave, knowing that he would die under the
operation ?"
"Dead or alive, slavery must cease to pol-
lute this free soilI"
"The liberty of the grave," said Martin. " Do
you know, Eben, I sometimes doubt that you
have true charity, true love for poor hu-
manity?"
"I am a man of principle I" answered the
other. " My life .is devoted to religion and to
the improvement of the public morality."
" And how about the correction of private
immorality ?"
" I wash my hands of it. Let those who fall
from grace look to themselves"
" Eben," said Martin, impetuously, " what
I hear from you is the cant of religion based
on heartlessness. We can dispense with the
mask when we are alone, for I know you well-
You speak of charity? You may subscribe to
the meeting-house and abolition societies ; you
may be at the head of the poor-houses and
prisons; but I know you would have turned
your poor brother away from your door this
night had you been sure the world should never
have known it."
Judge Bates's dark looks were confirmation
strong enough; but he said with some vexa-
ation,-I
" You come to my unpolluted house branded
as a thief! If the world knew of your crime,
surely, I could not have subjected myself to
public disgrace, by giving you aid and comfort
under my own roof."
"Eben," said Martin, deadly pale, but very
calm, ''did I not steal that money for you?
Did you not receive the fifteen thousand dol-
lars out of my employer's coffers ?"
"It seems so, indeed; but at the time I did
not know that it was stolen! I had fifteen
thousand dollars ready to repay them, which I
borrowed of John Van Strom upon a mortgage
on my house."
"At last," said Martin, with open contempt,
"at last you have forgotten yourself, and show
your true character. In other words, you pro-
vided yourself with money to repay me in case
I should tell people you received it, and owe it
to Mr. Going. But since it all remains on my
shoulders, you never mean to restore what you
have received!"
"Put it in that light !" cried Judge Bates.
"Make me give my last penny away, because
you gave me-it was not a loan, sir-because
you gave me some money once upon a time!
Tell every one the secret ! Make me a pauper,
ruin me, drive me to the grave, and blast my
daughter's happiness for ever! It would not
astonish me in you !"
" Eben," answered Martin, solemnly, "do I
deserve this, after having sacrificed my honor
for you these two times, first in England, and

then here, when you wrote to me that you
must have money?"
"The old story," said Judge Bates, who was
fast losing his dignity of. speech and manner
in the conversation. " Thirty years ago, you
and I were boys. I committed a piece of boy-
ish folly; had an intrigue with your colonel's
wife, and by a strange combination of circum-
stances, you were suspected in place of me.
You had nothing to lose but your commission,
while I was engaged to be married; you good-
naturedly consented to leave the world unde-
ceived. Luck was against you, and you were
condemned to a great disgrace, and yet you
charge me, thirty years afterward, with your
misfortunes. It is absurd!"
"Be it absurd," said Martin, drearily. " At
all events this is a strange version of that story.
I have suffered for your sins ever since we
were at school, and I only wonder for what
purpose you, with your high position at the
bar, required money so badly as to induce me,
poor fool, to steal it for you! With the first
five hundred you- asked of me, came a most
earnest appeal to my brotherly love; but the
more I sent, the more you wanted, until
with that and my own extravagance, I became
pressed for cash-went into speculations-
lost more, and finally stole money to make it
up ! You owe Going &amp; Son fifteen thousand
dollars, Judge Bates!1"
" And I tell you that this is a falsehood, sir.
What I wanted with the money, is my affair;
and, as I never promised to repay it, I would
like to see the court of justice which would
give decision against me I"
."Eben," cried his brother, "when people
are thoroughly dishonest, they always have
the law in their mouths. But be that as it may,
I have served you all my life, and the conse-
quence is, that the world has always smiled
upon you, while it only snarls at me like a
wild beast, and shows its teeth at every step I
take."
"Do I snarl at you and show my teeth ?"
asked Judge Bates, in a changed tone. There
was a soft affection shadowed in his voice, a
kindness and persuasive unction, whose value
with a jury he well know. Was he now more
sincere than when in the exercise of his pro-
fessiona? God and he only knew ; but Martin
was moved by the simplest show of sympathy
from his elder brother-moved to tears.
"OhI" he cried, "this is the voice, Eben,
which appealed to me in the barracks prison
thirty years ago. Against the voice of nature
I have no weapons, and I belong to you, body
and soul, when you approach me thus. Let
the world go. I love you, Eben, and you can
reward me for all I have suffered by an hour
of kindness !"
The old man bowed his head and wept.
"Let us be friends, then," continued the elder
brother, in the same smooth, caressing voice.
"Take my hand, Martin ! I will not forsake
you. Live in my house, and call it your home
for the rest of your life."
ArAd old Martin Bates, broken-down in body
andspirit by the consequences, not of an evil,
but of an almost crazy transaction, took the
proffered hand, the hand of the man that owed

him every thing, caught it eagerly as though
it were the greatest condescension of some
superior being.
So the two old men, each queer in his way,
and together exemplifying how craftiness can
take advantage of brotherly love combined
with a weak character, sat late into the night
speaking of various subjects. Martin was all
confiding, all affectionate. Eben reserved all
his secrets, and his manner toward his brother
soon fell back into the stately dignity, for
which he was so celebrated. Their heads were
white; whether they thought of death, and af-
ter death, the judgment, or, from other reasons,
they henceforward lived in apparent peace and
happiness, Eben displaying a high-toned kind-
Jiness to his brother, Martin sinking each day
into a fixed melancholy, each day shrinking
together in body and soul.
He would sit mute and lost in vague
thoughts for hours, and at such times his face
wore the livid hue of death. Like a thing
half-defunct already, he moved ghostily around
the house; but he was most affectionate to his
niece, Bessie. Ilow little did she dream of the
character of his thoughts toward her ; how
little could she interpret his soliloquy when she
saw his lips move silently; and how distressed
and terrified she would have been had she
heard the words formed by those pale lips,-
"God, if a felon's prayer can find grace with
thee, let her father's sins not be visited upon
her innocent head 1"
*      *      *      *      *
A few days after our hero's arrival at John
Van Strom's house, Judge Bates appeared
very much pre-occupied one morning, and par-
took of his breakfast without a word for any
one. He was dressed with such care that his
daughter remarked it, and asked, smiling,-
" Is there a great law-case on hand to-day,
papa, or, are you going to make love to one of
your numerous lady admirers '"
To which " papa" replied with a monosyl-
lable, and remained intrenched behind his
stately reserve. As it was such beautiful
weather, lae did not order his carriage, but
told Bessie, with a ceremonious kiss, that she
need not expect him before evening, though he
might return much sooner, and then he strode
out of the door. Bessie went to the window
and followed him with her eyes, as he walked,
tall and erect, toward Mr. Van Strom's house.
He was so lost in thought that a beggar-wo-
man on the roadside failed to attract his atten-
tion. His handsome face, his snowy-hair, each
seemed to have received particular attention
this morning, and never had the handsome old
gentleman looked handsomer.
Active, and in full possession of his bodily
strength, he covered the distance, some three
miles, within an hour, and rang the bell at
Van Strom's door. The servant informed him
that Mr. and Mrs. Van Strom were out ; but
when he looked through the open door, he saw
Josephine with a book in her hand sit-
ting in the drawing-room. An expression of
satisfaction overspread his countenance, and
he stepped in quickly. She arose and held out
her hand ; ho looked at her for a moment with
undisguised adgiiration, struck by her charm-

FELONY                          7' j


GOING AND SON.

ing appearance in a morning dress, with her
golden hair fallen about her in loosely-gathered
braids.
" Excuse my appearance, Judge Bates," she
said, in her deep, melodious voice, " I am
hardly presentable."
" I am too old for compliments, madam," he
answered, " or I would assure you of the con-
trary. Do I find you alone ?"
" Yes, I'am sorry to say. Bella and John
have driven out, and our guest, Mr. Montant,
went to the village about some business, I be-
lieve."
"Mrs. Van Strom," said he, after they were
seated, " I am delighted to meet you alone, for
I want to speak to you on a matter of some
importance."
She looked at him expectant-
" I am fifty-seven years of age, and I have
agrown-up daughter," said Judge Bates, slight-
ly flushed, in spite of his determination to ap-
pear at his ease. "I have a name second to none
in the State, and the question is, whether I
can still call myself young enough to harbor
any thoughts of marriage."
Not dreaming of what this was the perora-
tion, she answered naively,-
I think, sir, that you are younger than
most gentlemen of forty, and although I don't
feel competent to give any valuable opinion on
a matter of such importance. I should say that
there would be nothing extraordinary in your
marrying again. But why -sk me such a ques-
tion, sir?  Do you contemplate-"
" I do, Mrs. Van Strom." he answered, red-
der than before, because he thought lie was
sure.of his case. "And let me plead my cause
like ,a man, old enough to be your father, and
not like a young and fiery lover. for that I can
not be. I believe you are without means, I
know at least that John's father did not pro-
vide for you, and I do not suppose that John
has settled any estate on you, since his father's
death. Therefore I have hopes that you will
incline a favorable ear to the offer I have come
to make to you to-day. I will give you a home,
a good name, and all the love that is left in
my old heart. If you will think of it, let rea-
son and prudence urge my suit, and be assured
that I have all the affection for yon that is
requisite to make you happy. Remember that
you have experienced the happiness and the
misery of marrying a man whom you loved,
but whose character was not yet fornmed, and
who disappointed you in the end, and consider
that it may be most advisable for you, in your
condition, to form an alliance which may make
up by safety, peace, and a happy home, for
the lack of an intensity of love which I ann not
fool enough to expect."
Ile paused. She had listened with growing
astonishment, and colored crimson; not from
what he thought agitated her, but from shame
at having hastily made a speech which could
not fail to encourage him to speak out. It
took some time for her to regain her presence
of mind, so the Judge gained the opportunity
to plead his cause; but when ie finished, her
answer, as the reader may imagine, caused
Judge Bates to leave the house, a throrouighly
disappointed man, and Josephine, when she

was left alone, cried a little, but laughed a
little also. While she was thus innocently
amusing herself a wagon drove up. It was
Bella and John returning from their drive, and
mirabile diciea/ the same yellow mare, Bella,
that had dragged John into his marriage, was
she, that John was now leading to the stable,
followed, at a respectful distance, by the groom
who had been in waiting.
" What is the matter, Josephine ?" asked
Bella, as she embraced her sister. "We just
met old Mr. Bates walking rapidly away and
looking much agitated. Has he been here ?"
Josephine answered evasively under her
sister's sharp scrutiny and close questioning.
" I believe he has been here."
"And what have you been talking about?"
pursued Bella.
"I promised not to tell," answered Joseph.
ine, innocently, whereupon Bella sat down.
opened her eyes as widely as possible, and
burst into a peal of laughter, in which Joseph.
ine could not help joining.
"So he actually proposed?  Did you accept
him ?" and again Bella gave way to her merri.
ment.
" I never could keep a secret !" cried Joseph.
ine, in dismay. " The harder I try the sooner
it is discovered! Well, since you have guessed
it, he told me that since he was rich and I was
poor-"
" What?" cried Bella, very earnestly, all of
a sudden.   "le told you that since you
were-"
" Poor--" repeated Josephine. " and-"
The villain!" muttered the tailor's daugh-
ter. "I can see now what he is after."
" What do you mean, Bella?"
"What do I mean ?" she cried, in a rage.
"I mean that he has just drawn up John's
last will, and that he knows, as well as I do,
that John has left you very rich. That's what
he wants to marry you for!"
The news that she would be rich some day
could not but till the widow's brain with the
brightest and happiest thoughts, for her lover
came to her mind in an instant. She had not
expected it. Her innocence in worldly matters
had made it easy for her to accustom herself
to the thought that the Van Strom property
was never to benefit her, and, so far, her wild-
est hopes had not reached beyond a wished-for
loan from John to start her future husband in
business.  This news, therefore, well-nigh
overpowered her; but, before she could real-
ize it, the door opened and our hero entered.
With a cry of joy, she rushed into his arms
and they had a good long embrace.
"Why did you stay so long, Ernest?" she
asked, when she could free her lovely lips from
his, so as to speak at all.
" Couldn't help it, baby," replied he, but the
conversation was always apt to proceed under
continued interruptions, until they could so far
accustom themselves to the delight of being
together as to speak like sensible people,---and
then Josephine imparted to her lover the good
news, that she was a "rich woman, and all
was now clear before them."
" However that may be," he answered, "I
do not desire to investigate matters which bue-

long to the future, especially as it is my inten-'
tion to rely upon my own strength and labor
alone, accepting what may, in the course of
kind providence, be in store for you, as a gift
of fortune unloolged for.'1
CHAPTER III.
THE ITALIAN   GIRL.
"P'ots have I laid, inductions dangerous."
Kise RICHARD III.
OUa esteemed acquaintance, Mr. Antonio
Stilletto, found himself called to Boston and
decided to make the journey in company with
his faithful ally, the great German philosopher,
Mr. August Muller, and also a young lady,
dressed in black and secluded from the vulgar
gaze by an impenetrable veil. When this wor-
shipful company found themselves at the New
Haven depot in New York, Stilletto made ar-
rangements with the conductor for the exclu-
sive use of one of the compartments of the
new-fashioned cars, paying therefor somewhat
toward that official's house-rent.
So they soon settled themselves comfortably,
in anticipation of the long ride before them,
Mr. Muller in one corner of the back seat, Mr.
Stilletto in the other, and the veiled lady
couched upon the front sofa, seemingly regard-
less of appearances.
Mr. Muller's philosophy teaches that it is a
needless expense to shave when traveling, and
as he considers himself a traveler, from the
time he makes up his mind to start until he
arrives at his destination, his growth of beard
does not improve the appearance of his thin
red face or conceal the perpetual sneer. Mr.
Stilletto's chin is, on the contrary, just from
the hands of the barber, his whiskers are dyed
a jetty black, and a beautiful color; not the
hue of youth, not the blush of health, but
the rosy tint of " rouge," graces his sharp
face. In fact, lie has made an exquisitely-vul-
gar or vulgarly-exquisite toilet, and his shining
silk hat and his immaculate gloves are calcula-
ted to attract attention. Go where he may,
written plainly on every inch of his bran-new
exterior, are the words-- here goes a snob."
These two worthies are smoking, and upon
the vacant seat between them recline two bot-
tles, whose appearance seems to please Mr.
Muller, for he steals an affectionate glance to-
ward them with his little blinking eyes, and
the restlessness so noticeable in his move-
ments would fully justify one in expecting the
question which has been assuming to itself
shape and words in his classic brain, voiding
itself thus:--
"Why is it that railroad-traveling makes
one so thirsty?"
"Because," answered Stilletto, "one hap-
pens to be a drunkard, and a coward besides,
who seeks excuses instead of coming out bold-
ly and acknowledging the fact."-
" Stilletto," began Muller,. proudly, sitting
bolt upright, "my standing and intellect-"
" Please don't," said Stilletto, disdainfully,.

" Take your drink and stimulate yourself into
a reasonable frame of mind if that is possible.
I have something to say to you."
The train had now left the suburbs of New
York, and was dashing along on its smooth and
firmset path in the open country, noiselessly
enough to permit conversation in a half under-
tone.
Muller took the bottle, uncorked it. almost
filled a cup which he produced from his
pocket,.and cocking his little eye at the veiled
lady, eried, " Here's a health to all good lasses I"
The lady took no notice of his politeness, nor
indeed had she appeared conscious of the
existence of her fellow-passengers since she
had first settled herself in her corner.
"Now, then, Muller," commenced Stilletto,
" the llobgoblin enterprise seems to be a fail-
ure, hey ? The company is now fairly started;
but while under Mr. Going's management of
the factory, there really were some profits
realized, yet under my management and yours,
things go wrong."
"Because you, my young friend, have not
yet arrived at the age when we leave off all
the pardonably easy ways of youth and attend
to business."
"It is true that I have a good deal of fun,
and have not confined myself altogether to
that accursed factory.  True, the foremen
have cheated us, paying large wages to men
that have done no work. True, my inventions
and patents are not what old Fatman thinks
they are. But then-"
" But then," put in Mr. Muller, with an
abstracted air, " we expected to make money
anyhow, even tinder these untoward circum-
stances, yet we have not made money."
"-And we want money."
"Precisely so," corroborated the philoso-
pher with an approving nod. Whereupon a
silence ensued as if their intellects required
rest, after the laborious task of reaching this
conclusion.
" Mr. Going," continued Stilletto, after a
pause, "has made a mistake, and is daily add-
ing  to the proportions of that mistake. Ile
holds the notes of the company to a large
amount, and has pledged his shares in it to
Mr. Chip, old Moneybags, you know, as secur-
ity for the money lent to the company. Now,
if the company fails to meet its engagements
his notes become worthless and old Money-
bags gets his shares. So you see, in helping
the miserable concern along, hoping to bring
it into a condition where his claims upon it
would he met, he has just thrown good money
after bad."
" You state the case clearly, and with acute
comprehension seldom found in one of your
tender years, and therefore I find it the more
astonishing."
"Take another drink, Muller! you deserve
one after that," said Stilletto.
" Proceed," said the philosopher, after hav-
ing helped himself most liberally.
" Fatman," continued Stilletto, "has been
obliged to invest some money in Hobgoblin,
though sorely against his will, and the trustees
have likewise had to lighten their purses hav-
ing found out that, after all, a trustee, even

FELONY.


80                              GOING A
though it be inconvenient, is expected to do
something for the company that has purchased
his great name to deceive the public with, so
these have all bought some shares in addition
to what was presented to them. Finally, oh
great philosopher, every one will be the loser
by Hobgoblin, though as yet nobody knows
it but old Fatman, you and I, and Mr. Going.
At least, if the latter don't know it now, he
soon will, when his notes become due and are
not paid. Then he will fail, Hobgoblin will
suddenly be dead, the trustees will open their
eyes and retire in disgust, and among the
shareholders there will be weeping and gnash-
ing of teeth."
" Your prophecy is accurate and to the point;
but will they not make an effort to sell the
shares at the Stock Exchange, and inaugurate
such a speculation in them as to enable us all to
realize before the final death of Hobgoblin ?"
"That is only a chance. In the meanwhile
we can not seil our shares, and having both
been very extravagant, you as well as 1, want
money."
" Precisely so," repeated Muller ; and again
there was a silence.
"I am sorry for Mr. Going, after all," said
Stilletto, in a sincere tone.
"My young friend," said the philosopher,
grandly, " God has instilled in our breasts the
instinct of self-preservation by which alone we
exist. though it must be confessed, to the de-
triment of man and material around us.
Therefore I beg leave to vary your words
somewhat im clothing the sentiments of my
soul and will say, I am sorry for ourselves."
Without replying to these sublime words,
Stilletto said, in a quick and altered manner,-
"But we will get money where we are now
bound to."
" So you told me ; but-how ?"
Stilletto was about to explain something
which, to judge by the working of his counte-
nance exercised his brain mightily, when he sud-
denly chocked himself, and with an expression
of doubt and distrust turned to the veiled
lady. Ile had noticed, out of a corner of his
sharp eye that she had altered her position
slightly, and he saw even through her thick
veil that her dark eyes of unusual luster and
penetration were at this moment turned upon
him. In a half-annoyed half-angry tone, he
asked her abruptly,-
"Simonetta, do you want any thing to eat
or drink ?"'
There was a strange constraint in her tone,
as she answered, not very promptly,-
" Non ho capito ci6 ie mi hai detto, caro
mio."
" Don't you really understand English,
Netty ?" again inquired Stilletto, only half
satisfied.
She merely shook her head, and told him
in Italian, that since he did not choose to ad-
dress her in her native language she was un.
able to understand or answer him. Stilletto
was now satisfied, and after a few remarks
exchanged between them in Italian, the lady
turned her face away and seemed to settle her-
self for a nap.
"I can hardly bring my mind to believe

FELONY.                        81

LND SON.

that she is deceiving you," said Muller to
Stilletto. "I know that when that poor mis-
guided creature, Martin Bates, was courting
her, she had to teach him Italian before he
could make much headway in conversation.
Strange and incomprehensible fancy of an old
man like him to propose honorable marriage
to an organ-grinder's girl l And I believe, from
my knowledge of the man, yes, I am certain
that he was sincere. And then to have been
circumvented at the last moment by her
friends!I"
" No, Muller. She had promised to meet him
at Chatham Square, where he was to have a
carriage in waiting, on the night of the very
day his rather funny little transactions in
Going's were discovered by that beloved
friend of mine, Earnest Montant."
" What about him?" asked Muller, who
noticed that Stilletto showed malicious pro-
pensities on pronouncing the name of our hero.
" I have an old grudge against him," said
the little man, "which old grudge may be set-
tled in a new way in New England, where I
expect to meet the gentleman. But to return
to the girl opposite (she is asleep!); it was I
who kept her from meeting Martin Bates. She
did me the honor to prefer me to him, and the
fierce brother who served as a mysterious and
ever invisible bugbear to scare Martin, never
existed, except in the person of myself. We
loved each other then already," added Stilletto,
with a coarse levity. .
"But," said the philosopher, "let me ask
you how a gentleman of your standing and
prudence can expose himself to the merciless
attacks of this gossiping, scandal-loving, and
unjust world, by carrying his-well his mis-
tress all over the country with him ? I must
confess that August Muller, as husband to a
sweet and pure wife, and as father to an inno-
cent and growing family, can barely tolerate
such company, and would not have tolerated
it had you previously apprised me that the
lady you intended to escort, was Simonetta
Marini, the daughter of an organ-grinder, and
your-"
" I want amusement," said Stilletto, careless-
ly, " and as far as the injustice of the world is
concerned, I do not understand what you mean.
If any one is sharp enough to recognize in my
pretended sister the real character of that lady,
I can see no injustice in his saying so where
and when he chooses."
"How if Mrs. Fatman should hear of it?"
asked the philosopher, slyly.
" I don't care a snap," was the impatient
answer. " Women must have cause for jeal-
ousy, flying into passions, bursting into tears,
and considering themselves dreadfully injured
by us men before they go crazy over us, as
they should."
Before this cool speech, when the name of
Mrs. Fatman was mentioned, the veiled lady
started as if something had disturbed her sleep.
But then she was asleep, of course ! And
even had she been awake, she could not un-
derstand a word of English-had she not said
so, and was it not true ?
Is it possible that even the shrewdness ot
Antonio Stilletto has been deceived by a

woman? Is it possible that Simonetta Marini
the outcast Italian girl, does understand En-
glish ? If so, she has heard words which may
fill a woman of her character with such hate
as to employ the arts of a demon, poison, or
a dagger to revenge herself.
" My dear friend," resumed the philosopher,
you have enticed this girl away from house
and home. You have betrayed her, and intend
to discard her when you become tired of her.
I am certain you are her seducer."
"I hope so," said Stilletto, boldly.
" And do you not fear her friends ?  These
Italians are insane in their revenge, and quick
with the dirk."
" So am I," answered Stilletto, who, as we
have seen, was not a coward. "But, old fellow,
I have done wonders in my time, by what you,
in your philosophy, might call ' brass,' and
how could I have achieved it if my courage
had been tamed by that most disheartening
feeling, called the fear of consequences ?"
"Then, you stick at nothing ?" asked Muller,
in a tone of undisguised awe.
."Ilow does that follow ?" asked Stilletto,
with a sneer.
"'Because," replied the great philosopher,
"when you fear no consequences, what is
there to keep you from all manner of crimes
when you can gain any thing by their perpe-
tration ?"
"My conscience, I suppose," said Stilletto,
languidly.
Muller looked attentively at him for a mo.
nent, and failing to grow wiser by attempting
to read that face, he gave up the argument
with a sigh, and took some more whisky.
Both drank freely, and it was not until dark-
ness closed in that they fairly entered upon a
discussion of what they expected to do in Mas-
sachusetts.  The names- of Judge Bates and
John Van Strom, of old Martin, and of Ernest
Montant, were frequently mentioned, and Stil-
letto's plans thoroughly'ventilated. Whether
she understood English or not, every word of
the conversation reached Simonetta's ears ;
whether she understood English or not, her
black eyes flashed fire, underneath her veil. She
did not move a muscle for hours daring that
conversation, but had darkness and the veil
been lifted from her face, even the courage of
a Stilletto might have failed him at the sight
of her clenched teeth and flashing eyes. But
then she does not understand English I Wheth-
er or not, her hand has clutched the dagger
she wears in her bosom; and thus the three
pas ed- the greater part of that night in the
train, which is steaming, and flying, and rat-
tling through the darkness which lies over the
lovely landscapes of New England.
CHAPTER IV.
MARTIN BATES PUZZLED.
"Now I see the bottom of your purpose,"
ALL's WELL THAT ENas WELL.
JUDGE BATES'S residence, like most of the
nrlas in the vicinity, was situated on a hill,
6

and surrounded-with gardens, orchards, arbors,
and groves, the whole enclosed by a stout,
rough stone wall. This wall, in front, was of
dressed stone, to correspond with the facade
of the house, and a handsome iron gate ad-
mitted one to a wide, straight gravel walk,
lined on either side with arbors, leading to the
front door.
The sun was setting at the lose of a bril-
liaut day, when the two brothers, Eben, erect
and stately, Martin, half crouching by his side,
lingered near the gate on -returning from a
walk through the distant fields.
" Eben," said Martin, as they strolled along
and into oneof the arbors, where the shadows
of night had already stalked in under the som-
ber roof of foliage, " Eben," said the old man,
mournfully, "does it not seem incompatible with
the wisdom of God that there should be even
one existence on earth which is not only a
burden and a weariness, oh, so inexpressibly
tiresome to the one who should enjoy his life,
but to every one else around him. 'Yet this
is my sad case. Sometimes I have a forebod-
ing, a presentiment that the eternal Providence
has spared me for another task in life, that I
am still to be a useful tool in the hands of fate.
If this be so, if my work here be not yet com-
plete, chance must direct the affair, for I no
longer possess any energy. I am fast rust-
ing away and sinking into that complete apathy
which is akin to death."
"Your life, Martin," answered the old
judge, in a kind, almost tender voice, "has
been a most useful one. You have saved a
brother from the punishment which the sins
of former years had called down upon his
head; you have enabled him to become a good
man and a useful citizen, and to hold his head
high in the community, occupying a proud
position, indeed !"
" But, Eben," replied Martin, thoughtfully,
"you are still in the toils of some dark mys-
tery. To this day I am ignorant of the pur-
pose for which you required the money I ob-
tained for you by crime.   How  can you,
therefore, hold your head high while this
matter can not bear daylight?"
" This point, Martin," said the judge, coldly,
was long ago settled between us as forbidden
ground. I can not explain. Your crime was
not my fault. I asked -assistance from a bro-
ther. le procured that assistatiee in his own
way. Do his ways therefore become mine ?"
Martin sighed. Oh, the power which that
strong, proud man exerted over his weak-
minded but affectionate brother! Like the dog
that licks the hand that lately struck the cruel
blow; like the slave, who clings to his master
whose fetters weigh him to the ground so
this strange creature, Martin Bates, loved his
terrible brother.
A footstep on the walk,-some one humming
a song, and the brothers, looking out from
the arbor to see who the intruder could be,
beheld a little man, strolling aldng, smoking a
cigar, with an air as if he owned an indefinite
number of other rural residences infinitely
superior to this one. The sun was now some'
time at rest, and the stranger approached
them closely .before they recognized him.


FELONY.                          83

Judge Bates, with an altered manner, stared
hard at the sharpface and shiny hat, as though
he doubted the testimony of his eyes, but the
disagreeable, bold voice that now accosted
him, settled all his remaining doubts, and he
started back with an exclamation of dismay,
only half concealed by apparent indignation.
"Good evening, Judge Bates," said our
worthy friend, Antonio Stilletto. "I have
been looking for you all over the place."
" Have you, indeed ?" muttered the old man,
between his teeth.
" Ah," continued the little man, "I see my
old friend, and your dear brother, Martin is
with you. low-do you find yourself, my dear
Martin," taking the old cashier's hand by force,
and shaking it with an air of impudent famili-
arity.
" You here again," gasped the judge, still
unable to control his vexation.
"Yes, my dear Judge," answered Stilletto,
apparently in an excellent humor, "and of
course you will ask me to take a walk with you
just outside the gate, and of course old Martin
here will excuse us, and ofjcourse I will not
stay to supper with you although you press
me so kindly to do so, and, in short, you will,
without the slightest doubt, do your best to
accommodate your welcome guest." .
Eben seemed irresolute. Here was a mo-
ment in which the net that had entangled him
for years, seemed capable of being torn to
shreds by one bold action which only -required
courage, for his reason had long ago pro-
nounced in its favor. Then, weak irresolution
with her thousand doubts and fears for the
future, disarmed his reason, and he know no
longer what he would or would not. lie
glanced around him; he loved his gardens, his
walks, his flowers. He looked toward the
house on the hill; it was a monument of his
high respectability; and a ray of light from one
window fell upon his agonized eye. le knew
whose window it was; lie knew his daughter
Bessie was there, and he loved her l With a
quick, impatient gesture, he bade Martin await
him, and strode rapidly toward the gate, while
Stilletto followed him with swaggering, rapid
strides, noiseless as a cat.
Martin remained rooted to the spot. He had
not been aware that his brother knew Stilletto,
whom he remembered well as the projector of
Hobgoblin, and disliked accordingly. While
he thus stood, bewildered and alarmed by
doubts and fears for his brother, his eye fell
upon a white object upon the ground.
"Stilletto surely dropped  it out of his
pocket," he soliloquized. "He is the most
disorderly vagabond I ever saw, and I am
sure he'll uin some grandsecheme yet by some
act of petty carelessness."  So musing, the old
man stooped and picked up the object, which
proved to be a small package of papers, and
instead of calling to the probable loser, who,
with Eben, was just at the gate, Martin quickly
concealed the bundle in the inner pocket of his
coat, with a feeling of some satisfaction, for
now, he doubted not, the mystery of Eben's
life in America was to be solved.
From a feeling of caution and the poses-
sion of a bad conscience, he looked around and

listened attentively to be certain that his action
had not been perceived; when, hark! a noise
as if of a rustling dress in the arbor. He held his
breath and heard it again close to him, and yet
the darkness concealed the moving object from
his view. Cold perspiration stood upon his
forehead, not from bodily fear, for Martin
Bates would long ago have welcomed'danger
of life; but now he feared lest he had been
seen to take the papers from the ground.
Again he hears the rustling of the dress
against the foliage of the arbor, close to him,
and the crunching of the gravel on the walk
under a light, hasty footstep. Suddenly he be.
held a dark object flitting by, and with a bound
he gained the entrance of the arbor and barred
the way out.
With a suppressed scream, a woman dressed
in black recoiled from his very arms. There
was light enough, now that they met face to
face out of the shadows of the dark arbor, for
them to recognize each other.
Martin Bates I" she exclaimed, in surprise.
" Simonetta MariniI" cried Martin, wonder-
ingly.
" Perhaps the good God has made- that we
meet," continued the Italian girl in quick pas-
sionate accents. "1I am not your enemy, Sig-
nor Bates, I ani your friend if I may be it.'
" Friend I" cried Martin Bates, bitterly.
"Praise the virgin who has saved you front
the misery of calling me your wife," answered
Simonetta, in her hurried, vehement manner.
"Your gray hair should have bleached with
thoughts of wisdom and not the passions
of youth, for the two go not together."
" Ilike to hear you speak again, Simonetta,"
cried Martin, " your half Italian-English used
always to soothe my misery."
The girl seemed newly agitated by Martin's
speech. After a moment's hesitation, she ap-
proached him, and laying her hand upon his
arm, said in a whisper,--
" Will the best friend of my life make me
a promise?"
"What is it, Simonetta ?"
"Never tell that I speak English."
"Why? all your friends know it !"
" All that are my friends in New York, yes.
But one man, he that can look into woman's
soul and hear the talking of her heart, he has
been blind and deaf with me. le thinks I do
not understand a word of English, and he has
spoken words in my presence that are burned
into the flesh of my heart, to stay there till I
die 1"
Martin began to understand. With a ques-
tioning gesture he pointed to the gate, and by
her assenting nod kney that she referred to
Stilletto.           I
"And what has he to do with you," he
asked, eagerly. " Has he-?"
" Yes," she answered fiercely, comprehend-
ing his hesitancy. " Yes, he has, and he must
die for itI"
Martin felt a deathly sickness coming over
him. He had loved this woman truly-and
now-and now! And that brute Stilletto,
too!
"You have been to me a kind and generous
friend always," continued Simonetta. "To

your kind sight my innocence of thought was
seen though my dress was rags, and you be-
lieved in me. Never did you approach me
with baseness of man ; but it had to come as a
snake in the night. And when I pray to the
Holy Virgin now, I only ask her for ven-
gence."
' Hold I Simonetta." cried Martin, appalled;
"by your religion, which is mightier than ours,
I warn you from further sin."
Sle has beaten me," gasped the girl, in
answer, Martin shuddered.
" Beaten me cruelly," repeated the furious
woman; "but that is not all. Blows do not
sting like jealousy. Will you promise not to
tell that him I speak English ?"
"Yes, yes I" muttered Martin. "But what
are the secrets you have learned through his
imprudence."
" When God's time comes you shall hear all.
There are steps coming this way.  They are
returning. Away with you. . I must return
to him I"
" When will I see you again ?" whispered
Martin; for by the closing of the gate, some
one was approaching.
"When I want you I will find you. You
forgive me?"
In heaven, poor girl, I will, on earth it is
impossible," answered  Martin  Bates, tear-
f"lly.
"We are friends in this one cause
"I do not know what it is," answered Mar-
tin, bewildered, " but I suppose I shall find
out." And he thought of the papers he had
picked up.
Simonetta  glided away  as  though   she
had melted into the surrounding darkness,
and he now saw his brother approaching with
an unsteady, wavering step. When Judge
Bates perceived Martin still waiting, he mas-
tered himself and walked firmly as ever.
"I have been keeping you long, brother?"
"I have beguiled myself with my fancies,"
answered Martin, as they sauntered toward
the house together.
"You ask me no questions about that man,
who came so boldly into my premises, and
whom I followed so readily, " said Eben, cast-
ing a sharp, suspicious glance upon his bro-
ther.
"I believe," said Martin. solemnly, "that
your business with that men belongs to you
two, and God, only."
Eben was silent.
" And why should men pry into secrets
that do not concern them. It may be, that
should I lift this veil of mystery, thle disclosure
would blind my moral sight for ever!"
Still Eben  remained  silent; but Martin
heard him breathing heavily, as one that en-
deavors to master his emotions, and when
they reached the house, Eben said in a hoarse
voice --
" Go in and talk to Bessie, make her happy,
for my mind is heavy with care this evening.
I will be in directly.",     .
Martin paused. A vague fear crept through
his nerves.
"lEben !" lie cried, tears rolling down his
withered cheeks, " Eben!I" taking his brother's

hand, " God keep'you from any thing wicked!
Come in now, I am afraid to leave you alone."
" Fear not," answered the Judge, quietly.
"Do you think that I would heap disgrace
upon my name and family by committing sui-
cide ?"
Martin, reassured by the import of the
speech rather that the droll, almost jocular,
tone in which it was spoken, obeyed his bro-
ther's request without another word.
" Ie will not heap disgrace upon his name,"
he muttered, as lie entered the house. "lHe
will live-live a life of hypocrisy ! As long as
the world can not look on his real face, dis-
torted by the anguish of guilt, as long as it
only beholds his outward face, where virtue and
digity sit enthroned, so long lie will bear tip,
so long he will be as happy as God will allow
him to be. I will leave him to recover the
mask which is intended to be gazed upon !"
Martin soon retired to his room. He locked
the door and closed the window blinds. By
the light of a solitary candle he produced his
half-stolen treasure, those papers he had found
on the walk im the arbor. If one could only
have seen him  His cheeks were even more
sunken, his hair scantier, and his complexion
more ashy pal3 than when we first met him
confronting the small but ominous statuette
of Justice, at his desk in the office of Messrs.
Going &amp; Son.   The light of his gray eyes
was unsteady, but now as he read the first
words of the captured documents, he seem-
ed to shrink into himself -with a feeling
of awe that made him shudder in that dis-
mal room where he sat alone with an overbur-
dened conscience, and only the dim and flick-
ering rays of a candle to illumine the title
page.
TIIE MANIAC's STORY.
. So Martin  rates read the story which foams
the opening chapter of this book, and as he
went on, his interest rose to intense fascination,
as if there was a mystic link which connected
him with the strange confessions of the lunatic
Count of Unkstein. The spirits of the Black
Forest seemed to till the air of Martin Bates's
lone room ; the gradually increasing mania of
the count, atlecting his eyes and ears, until ho
actually beheld a material wolf's head in the
countenance of his once beautiful wife; the
precision with which the apparition of the
black wolf and the spectral reproduction of
that awful tragedy in the woods were depicted;
the terrible earnestness of the whole account,
and the evident wish of the imaniac to prove
that lie was perfectly sane, and telling the un-
varnished truth, all these elements combined
to make the crazy story assume a superhuman
aspect and similate the truth. Martin's few
locks of thin hair uprose in horror, large drops
of perspiration hung upon his wrinkled brow,
though he was chilled to the very marrow with
overpowering, causeless fear, and he would
have given much had he never seen the man-
uscript.  Even the dead paper, after he had
finished reading and had folded it again,
seemed inspired with an awful individuality,
as though especially sent from the kingdom of
spectues to appall human kind.

GOING AND SON.


84                   GOING AND SON.

Who could have written it? The penman-
ship was feminine, regular, very distinct, and
very small. No date or author's name ap..
peared, to give a clue ; no testimony save the
bare fact of its existence, told of its produc-
tion; yet there it was, a living, speaking thing,
when once opened.
It took some time for Martin's nervous agi-
tation to subside sufficiently for him to answer
the question that kept recurring to his mind,
" What has all this to do with Stilletto?"
For a few moments he was strongly inclined
to think that it had nothing to do with him or
any other human being, but had fallen into his
hands through'the agency of some evil spirit.
But what is this on the floor?  What ! more
papers thrown into Martin's path by-Heaven
knows who? Ile picks it up. It has evidently
dropped out of the manuscript he has been
reading, between the leaves of which it has
been carelessly left. It is a letter, unsealed,
and addressed to Judge Bates. Martin read as
follows:-
"1Copy of letter wen to Eben Bates.
"I inelose you herewith a copy of the MS.
which will show you that I am in full posses-
sion of the facts regarding the earlier history
of your lovely Countess of Unkstein, which
lady has the honor of being my mother. Other
papers (such as letters from you to her, dated
thirty years ago), and her own written confes-
sions, must establish the fact pretty thorough-
ly that I am your beloved son ; but, also, that
when you did me the kindness to father
me, you and my worthy mother most unac-
countably omitted the marriage ceremony.
" Now I think that a father is expected in
this world to support his children, and I am
happy to inform you that I am very extrava-
gant, so as to al'ord you plenty of opportunity
to practice that heaven-born virtue called gen-
erosity.
" Understand me thoroughly. I am a gen-
tleman, but in reduced circumstances, and you
know what m n will do when they are reduced.
If you do not pay me ten thousand dollars
within six days from this, I shall proclaim to
the world that you. the high-toned, pious judge.
have an illegitimate son living in, New York,
and I can not imagine that a gentleman of
your wealth should think that a large sum to
give to your own son.
" I expect an answer to-morrow, and re-
main,
"iYour obedient son and servant,
" ANTONIO STILLETO.
(" Which name I adopted because you had
not the kindness to leave me reasons to prefer
any particular name 1")
" Now I see it all I" exclaimed Martin Bates.
" This letter is dated three years ago to-day.
This whelp is-must be-really Eben's son.
And now-now," continued the old man, pacing
the room and rubbing his forehead, "I remem-
ber a rumor that Eben had an intrigue
with a German or Italian countess on the Con-
tinent. This must have been about thirty
years ago, and this woman doubtless was the

unfortunate but villainous wife of this poor
German nobleman."
" There is not a doubt left," continued Mar-
tin, in soliloquy, "or why has Stilletto such
an influence over Eben?    And I -can see
plainly that this terrible living punishment for
an old sin, is the cause of Eben's pecuniary
embarrassments. From what I know of that
brute, he is capable of tormenting any one
to the very confines of the grave for money.
And this ten thousand dollars demanded so
boldly three years ago, was doubtless but the
preliminary to greater requisitions.
" Three years 1" he mused. "has not Stil-
letto been to Europe since then ? Yes; but
he is just the man to make a pleasure-trip at
the expense of my poor brother ! Poor Eben,"
cried Martin, beating his forehead with his
hand, "how the grace of your body has defiled
the grace of your soul! Who would recog-
nize in the noble judge, the former rake,
the  liar, the  hypocrite,  the  remorseless
egotist, that I know  lie was!  I say poor
Eben -I that have suffered more than any
other human being by his deceit and sel-
fishness-I that have lost all for him-hon-.
or, virtue, peace of ind, forever more! Yet
notwithstanding all this, I love him still, and
vould die for him ."
"     .ow strange," he continued, after he had
calmed himself somewhat, ' how strange that
Stilletto lost these papers, copies of those
sent my brother three years ago. Thus does
Providence spoil the nets of villainy by lettig
one thread break-and, lo! the whole is de-
stroyed. This planning, cunning, cruel devil,
this fiend, Stilletto, is, by the direction of a
merciful God, born with one great failing-
carelessness, want of order. The consequence
of a small, thoughtless act, such as carrying
these papers in the same pocket with his pocket.
handkerchief, the dropping them  at my feet,
spoils all his calculations.
.But how does it spoil them?  How can I
help Eben in this dilemma?" he asked hirn-
self in sudden perplexity. And though lie
could not immediately answer these queries,
he laid awake for the balance of the night
thinking about it.
CHAPTER V.
HAND-IN-HAND.
"This cunning cardinal,
The articles o' the combination drew
As himself pleased.'-KIsNo ENRY VII.
HAPPY the man who owns the ground upon
which-his house is built, and the house itself,
from the foundation to the roof as an unen-
cumbered property, for only then may it be
called his home in the fullest sense of the
word.
Mr. Going, as we know,. was the reputed
owner of two homes-one in town, and one
(the newly-acq~uired Priory) in the country.
But were they unencumbered ? No: that first
and greatest underminer of a man's personal

solvency, a mortgage, rested like a curse upon
the Priory, and vitiated the anxious mind of
the merchant with every enjoyment of his
beautiful country-seat. Besides this, a mort-
gage had long since been placed upon the
house in Fifth Avenue, so the old gentleman
was really in a doubtful and false position.
Did he own his houses? Yes: the world
thought so; envy proclaimed the fact-malice
mentioned the extravagance-and yet, in his
communings with himself, he could not say,
"This property is mine !"
The office of Going &amp; Son seemed to grow
more desolate and become more forsaken as
relentless Time advanced with steady, meas-
ured stride, removinga veil here and there,
and developing matters as they approached
their consummation. He touched the old busi-
ness of the house and it turned to nothing but
an empty name, the office no longer presented
a scene of well-regulated activity; but rather
the unwholesome, mysterious bustle which
precedes the consummation of a great under-
taking, an enterprise upon which hangs repu-
tation or disgrace.
The little figure of Justice on the cashier's
desk still held out its scales at arm's length,
though the dust lay thick upon it in the
ghostly luster of the setting sun, as it peered
through the windows arid then departed with
another day, leaving one day less of the few
which would accomplish what was but a ques-
tion of time; one day less of weary endeavor
and self-mocking hope; one day less of morbid
energy and despairing strife to avoid what
Mr. Going felt in his inmost soul could not be
aroidec.
Yes, the house must fall Like a ship whose
every timber, to her very keel, is rotten and
worm-eaten, the firm must founder and go
down in the troubled waves of the financial
storm that rose higher and higher, breaking
over its fast shattering hulk.
Fatman had gone hand in hand with them
until'they were fairly launched on the sea of
destruction.
"Mr. Going," said Mr. Solomons, the Jew,
on entering the office one morning, to find
father and son in gloomy, indolent reverie,
staring on the void that now reigned upon their
writing desks, while at the further end of the
outer office, a lonely clerk was perched upon
a high  stool like a melancholy crow on a
withered branch.
" Mr. Going, sir," said Mr. Solomons, taking
an uuproffered seat, "lHobgoblin is sick. Fat-
man got it on the board, youk now. I bid for
it every day to keep up prices, but it amounts
to nothing but wash sales."
"What do you call wash sales ?" asked Mr.
Going, rather sharply. " I should very much
prefer that you would divest your language of
your stock-board slang when you come to talk
to ame, and use terms calculated for the com-
prehension of a plain merchant."
Wash sales," answered   Mr. Solomons,
"are sales made for show, you know. In-
stance, Hobgobhlin is called at the board. All
brokers present; I offer twenty-five; Walter,
quuick as lightning, you know, takesit. Folks
think stock sold. Papers quote, Hobgobimn

twenty-five. After board closes, I go to Wal-
ter and say, 'Walter, this is wash,' you know,
which means the stock ain't sold. I don't pay
twenty-five for it. But in the meanwhile, if an
outsider offers twenty-five or twenty in the
board, Walter takes that, too, and the outsider
has to pay. Do you see ? In other words, we
keep up a fictitious market to rope in the
greens! Understand ?"
"1I understand," said Mr. Going, showing in
his tone and .manner the humiliation and dis-
gust that he felt; "and I would give a great
deal if I need never hear of such transactions
in connection with my affairs I"
"Pooh, pooh i" said Mr. Solomons, pity-
ingly. "But I wanted to tell you that "Hob-
goblin is very sick. Dying fast, sir, is Hobgob-
lin. Folks beginning to see that two millions
is rather a large capital for a company owning
nothing but a factory, which stops work pretty
often, and a few acres of mining lands. which
nobody knows the value of, only folks begin
to wonder if the whole concern could have cost
more than fifty thousand dollars"
" Mr. Solomons," said Mr. Going, with an
effort, "I am not very well this morning, in
fact my head does not feel strong enough for
a business talk."
Walter looked up at his father. The old
gentleman's face was haggard and mournful in
the extreme. His son could there read the
pain, the anguish, inflicted by the broker's friv-
olous remarks, and with his old brusqueness
toward Mr. Solomons, lie said:-
"You better go and sell a thousand shares
of Erie for us, and hurry up about it, too. We
have had enough of your twaddle about our
own stock!"
" Erie !  Yes, sir. Now there is a stock
worth talking about. Erie closed at twenty-live
last night, sixty this morning, and Files ,
Banker made a million, old Scudder lost about
as much, and busted ! I'll buy you Erie at
fifty-nine and half-buyer three, or I'll sell you
at fifty-nine and half cash !"
As soon as llobgoblin yielded the floor to
Erie, Mr. Solomons resumed his accustomed
flow of language, becoming quite enthusiastic,
and this change Mr. Going noticed with a feel-
ing of great despondency as a proof that his
cherished Hobgoblin had sunk very low in the
estimation of such men as the broker, who will
praise the most worthless stock as long as
there is a shadow of a chance of inducing the
ignorant public to deal in it.
When Mr. Solomons had left the partners
once more alone, Mr. Going said to Wal-
ter,-
-If the company does not pay us the notes
which-mature to-morrow, we will have a hard
day, my son. I do not see how we can manage
to get along without that money."
" They must pay them," cried Walter.
"That is the question," answered the old
gentleman, sadly. " The notes are given by a
limited corporation. Not a trustee, not an in-
dividual is responsible for them. And we do
not dare to sue the company for payment, lest
the whole enterprise tumble about orur ears,
and all our stock become valtreless I And still
I think we had better make an end of every

FELONY.                        8j


GOING AND SON.

thing. If the company does not pay us, sus-
pend payment ourselves; make an assignment
and let the trustees answer for their con-
duct before the public and the law courts I"
" Father," cried Walter, "how can you speak
that way. We must not suspend! It would
break your heart I"
The old gentleman involuntarily looked up
toward heaven and laid his hand upon his
heart. Was it not broken already? Was not'
his calmness that of despair?  Walter did not
perceive the agony to which that quick ges-
ture bore witness, for lie was pacing the room
like an imprisoned wild beast; still protesting
against suspension and trying to persuade
himself that this step would not be necessary.
The clerk brought in a letter. With a fore-
boding of evil the old gentleman broke the
seal:-
"IIoBGOBLIN.
"Messrs. Going &amp; Son:-
"Dear Sirs,--I regret that it is necessary,
in my capacity as Treasurer of the Hobgoblin
Mining and Manufacturing Company, to notify
you that it will be impossible to meet the notes
of the company, which fall due to-morrow, at
maturity. After much trouble and the exer-
cise of powerful influence we succeeded, as
you know, in getting Itobgoblin added to the
list of stocks, which are sold at tho board of
brokers. I have no doubt that Mr. Solomons,
whom we selected as the fittest party to man-
age the sale of the stock, has already informed
you of the total failure of the enterprise at
the board. We can sell no stock, and we hold
no funds to pay off the notes you hold. I am
sorry to be obliged to further inform you that
we begin to see what an exorbitant price we
have paid for the llobgoblin. You are much
to blame for having attempted to make such
an enormous profit out of your manufactur-
ing enterprise, and we have more to complain
of than you. However, we will still go hand
in hand and endeavor to make the best of a
bad bargain. Unless you commit the very
evident mistake of suing the company (in
which case all of us would be heavy losers,
for the stock would sink at once to the value
of waste paper), I still offer you my aid, and
we will fight It out, going hand in hand, as I
mentioned before. Yours, truly,
"FATMAN."
"Hand in hand to the devil," cried Walter,
in a rage.
"Compose yourself," said his father, trem-
bling like a leaf.
"Father," said Walter, beside himself, and
walking up to Mr. Going with tears in his
honest eves and a husky voice, "Father, I
swear that Fatman shall suffer for this before
he gets through with-us."
"In the meanwhile we are ruined," said
the old gentleman, with unnatural quietness
of voice and manner.
"Can we not work through?" asked Walter,
composing himself.
"Yes; but I feel as though an honorable
failure were better than a dishonorable solvcn-
ev. I know a man wvhose advice I would like
to have just new," This last sentence was

not addressed to Walter, but was spoken al.
most in a whisper, as though he were comnmu.
nicating with his own thoughts. Yet Walter's
attentive ears heard the words, and he said,
abruptly, as usual:-
"I know whom you mean; but Ernest Mon.
tant is not worthy your regard. He left you,
his benefactor, at a time when he knew that
you required the best of help. No clerk, no
employee, that has a spark of honor left, de-
serts a house in the time of severe trial, such
as we have experienced, and, if he should do
so, it is often a black mark against him in the
business world. We only humiliate ourselves
by regretting his loss!"
"No, Walter," answered his father, sadly.
"le was right. In his mind the events which
are now crushing us were clearly foreseen, and
his prophecies have come as true as Scripture.
He knew that mere seamanship could not save
a rotten vessel, and he left our undertaking-
not our friendship, for, should a time con e
when we need his aid, he will stand by us as
of old.  But this accursed stock company
must cease to exist before we can again stand
clear and unsullied in the eyes of good men or
even in the light of our own consciences, so
let tus take the bitter pill at once, Walter, let
us-ffail."  The last word cost him an effort.
It almost choked him.
"' This Fatmuan !" cried Walter, rising to his
feet again as his anger returned,-
" To dare. to write us such a letter. He is
indeed perfidious," said the old gentleman,
picking up the document to peruse it again.
"After telling me again and again," coutin-
tnd Walter, "that those notes would certainly
be paid, he now, at the eleventh hour--"
"The notice is too short," said Mr. Going,
dolefully. " I have never heard of such do-
ings before. It seems as if his intention was
to lure us on into feeling perfectly secure and
to strike the blow when it was too late to-
ward it off!"
"Perhaps he wants us to suspend payment,
so as to throw the blame of the Hobgoblin
failure upon us.",said Walter.
"I can not see the reason for his treach-
ery;" said Mr. Going. "It may be the inborn
hatred which naturally exists between a black-
guard and a gentleman!"
It was but rarely that Mr. Going permitted
himself to use violent or inelegant expressions;
but his just indignation spoke in the last sen-
tence, as well as the proud consciousness of
his own superiority, which he did not care to
disguise.
"'We can sell no stock, and we have no
roney to pay the notes you hold,"' quoted
Walter, between his teeth, as he was re-read-
ing Mr. Fatman's letter.
" It is perfectly outrageous," said Mr. Going.
" As if they had not received merchandise
for those notes I And then to dare to-tell us
that they have paid too much for the proper-
" Nothing but those shares, which seem val-
ueless, or very nearly so."
'"Wasn't it they that insisted upon issuing
two millions of shares, so as to enrich theniu-
selves, I should like to know ?" said Walter,

bitterly. "Wasn't it against our opinion, ad-
vice, and warning, that they, who now accused
us, attempted-to realize these immense profits?
And now, when they find out that their de-
signs upon the public are of no account, they
refuse us our money and throw their own vii-I
lainies into our faces for an excuse I"1
"I have deserved it," muttered Mr. Going.t
"I was warned.   Chip, Paradise and others
warned me ; -but I could not believe that they
were right, and now I must suffer the penalty I"
"But, father," said Walter, resuming his
seat, "we must not fail. Whatever we do,
whatever we may have to sacrifice, let us keep
up our good name."
And although the old gentleman heard a
warning voice, in his heart, which told him
that a man who is not solvent has no right to
keep his state a secret,--although his experi-
ence told him of hundreds of houses that had
made honorable bankruptcies, and so preserved
the respect of the community, which soon
brought there back to better fortunes,-yet
the sound of his good name was too precious
for him to insist on couplig it with that ugly
word, and he yielded to his son.
He yielded, and the anxiety of every day
through which they had to struggle increased;
they  no longer  knew, experientially, the
meaning of undisturbed sleep, or peace of
mind. And thus the two merchants kept up
the tottering firm at all hazards-at all sacri-
fices; through weeks of disheartening toil,
through  months  of thankless endurance,
through periods when all seemed lost, and
only miracle could save them, only to remain
in the midst of a never-ending battle with
fresh uncertainties and agonizimg doubts, to
enter upon new labors without end; and all
this to keep alive a phantom, a creature of the
mind, a reputation undeserved, an honor based
upon deceit. And, at the same time, they
knew that they were only postponing the
catastrophe. All these horrors, agonies, and
labors, for no other purpose than postponement.
And during this season of trial what of the
gay life which had filled ie halls, and en-
livened the grounds of the  ately old Priory?
What had become of the grand magnificence
of the house in Fifth Avenue, and what was
the condition of our dear friend, Miss Jessie
Going? Did she know what was passing in
her father's office?  Did she know the trials
of his mind? Let us see what the envied
belle of New York thinks in her youthful heart,
though she betrays no sign in her gay exterior.
After the day's toil, the throng of working
men amd women moves away from that part
of the city where their daily bread is earned,-
their daily bread, and perhaps not a penny to
spare for years,-away toward their homes,
to sleep until the morning light shall bring the
unwelcome summons to another day of labor.
But few of these elect to choose the more
fashionable thoroughfares for their daily walks,
the majority preferring those streets more
suited to their station; streets which connect
their homes with their workshops, in one un-
relieved line of mediocrity. But the few who
do venture on a timid walk past the domains
of weadlth, stare at the palace-hameas of that

class of humanity which, by its superiority to
their own fondest dreams or aspirations, seems
so far beyond them as almost to partake of the
divine.
Doubtless, then, there had been many
hungry and covetous looks cast upon that
mansion in Fifth Avenue, where Miss Jessie
Going, on this bright Indian-summer afternoon,
is watching the passers-by, from the window
of her room.
" Who lives in this splendid house ?"
" Mr. Going, the great merchant."
"Immensely rich, I suppose ?"
" Immensely rich-yes (with a sigh).
"has he a daughter ?"
" Yes, one (what an neiress !); and they say
that she is more beautiful and accomplished
than any other young lady in New York. She
is the reigning belle."
The speakers might have been poor work-
ing girls.
Two gentlemen, of unpretentious appear-
ance, are walking home on the other side of
the street. No one imagines that they pur-
posely avoid passing that envied house; yet it
is so. Mr. Chip and Mr. Fatmnan, the two
millionaires, no longer wish to approach the
house of their former fiend. Miss Jessie, at
her window, recognizes themi at a glance, and
with womanly pride, retreats for a moment
from view, that she may not appear to seek
recognition, since it is evident they no longer
seek it. She lowers the blind, and when thus
in the solitude of her room, her face and man-
ner are relieved of all constraimt. On the side
of her bed-that virgin sanctum whither she
has often retired when her heart beat high
with an exultation too strong to be exposed to
the scrutiny of society; where the brightest
and fondest dreams-sleepimg and waking-
have beguiled ler; where her tears have
fallen, gently, joyously, or bitterly, according
to their cause-there she sits, with her hands
in her lap, and her hair dishieveled, misery in
her face and a void im her heart, while her
young and inexperienced brain is in a whirl
with a thousand agomies.
Ah, now she realizes the truth! The world
has turned against her father. His friends
have fled with his wealth, and now enemies
lurk in every corner. The truth is not yet
known by all. Ie decaying skeleton of what
was once the great house, the great family, is
closed yet from general scrutiny; but a few
have lifted a corner of the covering, and
peeped under, and those few show in their
faces what they have sen. Appearances are
still kept up, fostering ucrvy, but ,better envy
than that treacherous, smooth-tongued, villain-
ous thing, called sympathy. how can any one
sympathize with her? Who but she knows
that each hair of her father's venerable white
head is an inestimable treasure, to be saeredly
guarded? Who can feel, as she (loes, his hu-
miliation, and the harshness of his fellow-men,
by which all his strivings t) save the integrity
of his name, and to secure the welfare of his
children, is met?
Amid when she tries to be cheerful and to
comfort him with a world of hove, he looks
upon lier with pity-nan expression that would

87

86

FELONY.,


FELONY.                          89

move a brazen image to hot tears, a gaze that
is harder to bear up against than would be the
bitterest complaints.
"If it were only over !" cries the young
girl. "How these articles of luxury by which
I am surrounded mock me. I feel as if. the
fiends animated the finery of this house; as if
the bronzes and pictures sneered at us; as if'
each piece of gold and splendor were a grim
mockery, selected by fate to sentinel our mis-
ery! Yes," she cried, passionately, "misery,
unmitigated misery, is all that life has now in
store for me. Perhaps, if the worst were over,
I might smile when Heaven granted me a ray
of hope or an hour of pleasure. I have seen
ragged children in the streets laugh merrily,
and even beggars look happy; but this torment-
ing, maddening condition of uncertainty, and the
undefined dread of the future galls every joy,
and is, indeed, too hard to bear! The afflic-
tions heaped upon me in my prime of youth
are annihilating hope-and creating a bidter-
1i438 withoutend 1"
But youthful vitality revolts against despair,
such as was enveloping her meditations, and
with the intention of changing her train of
thought she approached the window once
more, gazing out upon the little piece of dark
gold blue sky over the house-tops yonder.
That sky reminded her of many an hour of
happy exhilaration. She thought of the fields
and woodlands glowing in the bright colors of
autumn; where the wind blew fresh and the
air was luxurious; and the memory of many
a face and many a happiness lost forever now
(so she thought, poor child), crowded upon her.
Many a face ! Was it not rate rone thee?
She pressed her hands to her heart,-to her
heart which enshrined but one image, and yet
was desolate, because the image was only a
blightiug shadow of a happiness one ehown to
her, to be only too soon removed. Her imagina-
tion places before her the form of the man she
loves. All her sense of admiration for the
beautiful and the graceful do homage before
it; all her thoughts of what is good and noble
crowd around it; and, from the depths of her
inmost soul, the Genius of Love arises and
places upon its head a crown of glory ; and
thus it stands before her mind,-and her mind
tells her that he belongs to another.
She sinks upon the couch and buries her
beautiful head in the pillows. Let us draw a
veil over her weak moments, when utter des-
pair conquers maidenly pride and dashes reason
and hope to the ground, until, in a calmer
mood, she raises her eyes for the comfort,
which, since earth is dead, heaven must accord
her
On her knees, praying for her cherished
father, imploring the divine grace by all that
is good and sweet on earth and holy in heaven,
and crying to God, that in his mercy he would
heal her heart, half-broken,-thus for the
present, we leave the envied belle of New
York.

CHAPTER VI.
GOING, GOING, GONE.
" How goes the world, that I am thus encountered
With clamorous debt-"
TIMON OF ATIHENs.
THE Priory is sold ; Mr. Christian Fatman has
bought it, and Mr. Going has submitted to the
publicity of his comparative poverty only after
many an ineffectual struggle. What neces.
sarily had to come, sooner- or later, occurred
in the following manner :-
On a December day, marked by the first
snow of the season, Mr. Going and Walter
were occupying the dreary quiet of their office,
in moody silence, when the door opened. A
fur coat, loaded with snowflakes, entered, and,
after unbuttoning itself and opening its wings,
graciously permitted the exquisite Mr. Solo-
mons to step forth into the outer world.
" This is a rare favor nowadays," said Mr.-
Going, greeting him. "I am much afraid that
Mr. Solomons, like the rest of the world, does
not fancy paying visits to this office, since it
is known that we have suffered severe losses
and are retrenching in all directions."
"Mr. Going," answered the Jew, "that is
not deserved, sir; and to show you that it is
not deserved, and that I don't mean to deserve
it, I have come to propose a great business to
you." With these words he produced a card
and handed it to the old gentleman.
" How is this ?" asked Walter, moderately
astonished, "'NATHAN SoLoMONs, Auc'rioN-
EER'? So you have left the stock business,
hey ?"
"I have. No money in it. If you lose, you
pay ; if you make, nobody pays you. Money is
tight when you're hard up, and when youhave
any, you can1' get  ee  pershent. Losing,
business, sir; all credit and no cash."
"Well, sir," said Mr. Going, with a smile,
after they had seated themselves, and an awk-
ward pause ensued since the last sentence of
Mr. Solomons' valuable wisdom. "As it is
easy to perceive that you have business to
propose, speak it out."
"Our mutual friend, Mr. Fatman-"
Here Walter muttered an oath which start-
led the late stock-broker so considerably, that
Mr. Going had some trouble to persuade him
to continue his remarks.
" Well, sir, Mr. Fatman sent me here," ejacu-
lated Mr. Solomons, coloring violently.
"For what purpose?" said Mr. Going,
coldly.
"To see whether you would not-"
"Speak, man !" cried Walter, impatiently, as
the broker stopped once more in utter comn-
fusion.
"Would, not.-" Here he actually stam.
mered.
" Another pull, my man, and you'll fetch
it I" cried Walter, laughing at the sight of tlite
Jew's helpless confusion. He was shifting
about on his chair as if it was uncomfortably
hot for him, and his face expressed mingled
reluctance and fear.- Finally ihe seemneri o)
collect all his energies for one grand effort and
almost shrieked out,_-,

"Fatman wants to know whether you'll sell and making ostentatious preparations for wri-
him the Priory for two hundred thousand iug letters which only existed as an excuse
dollars, cash1.                          for remaining at the office until his father had
Mr. Going shrank back from the words as left. " A wonderful comfort, which consists in
if he had received a blow, then he sat up very the fact that Fatman, besides assuming the
straight in his chair, and was about to answer, mortgage which John Van Strom still holds
when Walter, whose face had suddenly as- on the Priory, will pay us enough cash, as
sumed a very grave expression, extended his Solomons says, to settle a lot of villainous pri-
haid to Mr. Solomons, and said, warmly,-  vate debts and small business accounts which
" You're a good fellow, Solomons.  I see have accumulated, and leave a good sum be-
that you have a heart and the honor of a gen- sides to meet coming obligations.''
tleman, or you would not have felt that just " Temporary comfort, Walter," answered
hesitation in making us. a proposal, which, the old gentleman, turning to the door. "Pri-
coming as it does from the man to whom we vate bills will accumulate again, business debts
owe our misfortunes, sounds more like a will press upon us, and we have no more
taunting insult than a mere business proposi- Priories left to sell I Good night. I hasten
tion."                                    to break the news to Jessie."
" My son has spoken my sentiments," inter-  He was gone. "Straight home after all,"
posed, Mr. Going, "and you may tell Mr. Fat- thought Walter, "so we prefer to entertain
man the answer you received!"       .     each other, separately, this evening. Well,
Reader, does it not seem strange that in the let me see-" and he went into sleep calcula-
course of the next hour after this answer to the tions, appropriating in advance a much greater
Jew's proposition, the Priory was sold, through  portion of the proceeds of the Priory than he
Mr. Solomons, by this high-toned gentleman, to  had at first expected would be in immediate
Mr. Fatman, for two hundred and ten thousand  requisition.
dollars ? If you think this seems unnatural, In breaking the news to Jessie, Mr. Going
remember the power of money. Messrs. Going found an easy, even a joyful task, where ie
&amp; Son, though not yet bankrupt, in the eyes had expected a distressing scene. Nor is Jessie
of the world, were, at this time, poor men; Going theonlyAmerican girlthatcarries a brave
and if we reflect upon the sore needs of the and noble heart, under the mask of frivolous
firm we shall not wonder that these two men love of pleasure, and reckless coquetry.
sacrificed their inclinations, conquered their  At the first timid and sad hints about the
pride and stretched a point of dignity in accept- possibility or desirability of a prospective sale,
ing this offer from  a contemptible enemy. Miss Jessie throw herself into her father's
And it so happened that the Priory was arms, and cried cheerfully,-
sold.                                        "Out with it, papa!1 You have sold the
Mr. Solomons remarked in the course of the dear old Priory, and you are afraid your little
interview, that ie had undertaken this negoti- daughter will be distressed about it. Let it
ation at the earnest solicitation of Mr. Fatman, go, darling papa, furniture and all. Yes, and
and-also because he felt satisfied that it would this house too, and every thing else except
lie for M. Going's interest to accept the offer. contentment and poor me I
Of course the private transfer of real estate is  Her father's face was radiant with joy. lie
not air auctioneer's legitimate business; but pressed her to his heart, while im their min-
since Mr. Fatman did not wish to purchase gled tears was sealed anew the compact of
the furniture of the Priory (except the carpets mutual love and trust, whose value is most
and fixtures, which had been included in the appreciated in the hour of adversity.
sale). Mr. Solomons now suggested an auction  When Walter returned home that night, his
of all the rest, which he had no doubt would father and sister were in such excellent spirits.
realize a handsome sum. Since the house in that he found courage to inform them that ie
Fifth Avenue was completely furnished, and  had received a very good offer for the four
the storage of valuable furniture was not ad- bays, the harness for driving four-in-hand and
visable, this furniture could be of no service the accompanying carriages.  It was at once
to Mr. Going. After considering these sug- agreed that the offer should be accepted, and
gestions of' the Jew, Mr. Going had another Miss Jessie, so far from expressing regret at
sharp struggle with his pride, and they agreed  this new sacrifice, became quite jubilant and
to that also.                             insisted upon Walter's company that night, to
" Are you going home, father ?" .asked a ball, which, under other circumstances, she
Walter, when evening drew on. Mr. Solo- would not have consented to attend.
mons had disappeared long ago, and the old  "I want to find out who are my friends,
gentleman, rising from his desk with a deep  when every one knows that we are poor," she
sigh, had called the solitary clerk to assist him  said, and the time was not far off when it would
with his overcoat.                        prove her happy lot to discover that under the
"Not immediately," answered Mr. Going, world's vanity, there is a current of real excel-
evasively, moving toward the door.        lence, whose presence the cynic denies because
" There is one comfort," said Walter, after a through his prejudice, lie remains only half
pause, during which both reflected upon the informed on the subject of human nature.
fact that on this eventful day neither had any  When the day of the auction sale arrived, a
inclination to walk home in company with the large crowd gathered at the Priory. Many
other, as usual, and that by silent and mutual came from the neighboring families who had
consent they had got rid of each other. " One- not yet moved to town or wiio lived. the entire
great comfort," said Walter, lighting a cigar, year in tire country, and many purchraseis from

00                   GOING AND SON.


GOING AND SON.

the city had been induced to attend the sale
by Mr. Solomon's glowing advertisements in
the daily newspapers. Dame Rumor had also
gratuitously advertised the sale, telling far and
near that Going &amp; Son-the great firm-had
been compelled to sell their celebrated coun-
try-place, and that, on such a day, the furni-
ture, which was quite princely for a citizen of
a republic, would be sold to the highest bidder
at public auction.
Miss Jessie had insisted upon attending at
the sale; but when she and Walter were treat-
ed like strangers by the horde of vandals which-
had invaded their home,-when they had to
pick their way through the confused heaps of
furniture, now piled up into "lots," and she
recognized many a cherished object, and many
a household god now dethroned and strewn
about like the corpses on a battle-field,-when
she heard Mr. Solomon's voice shrieking and
yelling, and rattling away, as if he were pos.
sessed by a demon, as lie rapidly sold off to
the highest bidder many a thing become price-
less to her from associations.-when the un-
ceasing " Going, going, goneI" smote her ear
vith increasing pain, and Walter made a grim
joke on the analogy of their own good name,
to the irrepressible refrain of the auctioneer,--
when she finally realized that here a home was
being desolated and demolished, cruelly strip-
ped of the cherished though inanimate com-
panions of many a happy hour long past,-
when these reflections pressed themselves up-
on her consideration her spirit broke down,
she felt that she was being driven away from
a happy home by that yelling clown of a Jew,
and she hurried her brother away from time
scene. Like a fugitive, she sought a retreat
in that house where she had once enjoyed all
that comfort and luxury can command, and
there she found none. From the inquisitive
gaze of strangers she again fled away, and
this time found shelter in the same summer-
house where Ernest Montant had first con-
versed with Josephine Van Strom, long ago.
As Walter's presence was needed elsewhere,
he left her there in the still powerful beams
of the winter's sun, and there, protected by
thick shawls, she found an hour of solitude
and contemplation. .
She was disturbed by some one's approach,
and a respectful voice said
" I have been searching high and low for
you, Mks Going. I have something to say to
vou, and, if you will allow me, I will say it
here."
Miss Jessie lifted her eyes and beheld before
her the elegantly attired form of Mr. Wheeler.
We must remember that he and Mr. Faro were
two gentlemen distinguished for their wealth,
fashionably good standing in New York soci-
ety, and intimacy at Mr. Going's house. Both
of them had often excited our hero's deep con-
tempt and animosity by their inanity and
claims upon Miss Going's preference, claims
which were honored with a sincerity of which
we are well able to judge..
Mr. Wheeler then lifted his hat and for one
gracious moment exhibited to her delighted
gaze his exquisitely-dressed hair, parted ex-
actly in the center and nearly touching his

eyebrows, since his noble forehead had been
molded very low by "dissembling nature."
At all events, there he stood. his mustache.
crowned lips parted, and his eyes dilated, while
his delicate right hand entertained its white
fingers by allowing them an unrestrained free-
dom in pulling and twisting his whisker.
" Miss Going," he said, still at a respectful
distance, "Faro told me-"
" Well, what did Mr. Faro tell you ?" asked
Miss Jessie, the slight tears with which her
gloomy reflections had moistened her black
eyes, giving place to a coquettish glance.
" He advised me-in fact-"
"Did he advise you to stop short in the
middle of every sentence, Mr. Wheeler?"
asked the young lady, laughing.
"No-no. But he thought that since my
uncle died-" explained the gentleman.
" What a dismal subject I" cried Miss Jessie.
" Well, now, it isn't dismal, at all," said Mr.
Wheeler, with a grin.
" Why, Mr. Wheeler 1" cried Miss Jessie, in
amused wonder. "XWho would have thought
you so heartless as to make merry at your
uncle's death"
"No, but it isn't that."
" Well, then, what is it ?"
"He left me a great deal of money, Miss
Going-and-in fact-Faro thought-"
"Mr. Wheeler 1" said the young lady, some.
what alarmed by his continued grins and the
incoherence of his language, "I sincerely hope
that your newly-acquired wealth has neither
turned your brain nor made you a victim of
that disgusting habit-drinking, you know."
Having said this with due emphasis, a pause
ensued, during which the young man rolled
his eyes around desperately, as if in search of
some relief; but none was forthcoming, the
silence was becoming unbearable, and lie
finally found courage to reply, looking at any
thing rather than the person addressed:-
"It isn't that at all, Miss Going, but you see
the Priory is sold."
Miss Jessie nodded, an intimation that she
had heard something of the kind before.
" And--you see-Faro thought you were
poorI"
It is impossible to describe the grimace
which accompanied this happy delivery of his
inmost thoughts. His listener, however, was
very much startled by the remark, and the
suspicion of what was most likely to follow
only increased her amazement.
" Mr. Faro is perfectly correct. I am poor."
" And, therefore," continued Mr. Wheeler,
apparently addressing the ornament on the
roof of the summer-house, "and, therefore,
Faro thought-that---that since I was rich and
-you were poor-" The perspiration stood
in beads on his face, he trembled violently,
and, with a convulsive effort (now that he
could not retreat), he gasped out,-
"Faro thought that, since I love you, and
you were poor and I rich - in fact, Faro
thought that if I asked you to marry me, you
would do it." He retreated a step as if horri-
fied by his own speech, and stood before her
with eyes fastened upon the ground, thme pic-
ture of complete confusion, muttering to h~iim-

self. "Well, if it's all wrong, I have put it
off on Faro, anyhow I"
But Jessie Going felt no inclination to laugh
at him. With a worhan's correct intuition, she
recognized and appreciated the kindliness of
heart which was prompting this man to offer
himself to her, and she was too good and kind
and gentle, not to feel very, very sorry for
him! In the opinion of every one, Mr. Wheel-
er was a fop, and was called a fool by many.
What little brains he possessed were seldom
exercised except-on petty affairs of amusement
or dress, yet it seems that lie had a large heart
beneath his immaculate shirt-bosom, and it is
an open question whether he was not more
prompted by generosity, ia this offer of mar-
riage, than by pure selfishness. His simplicity
(oh1 how very simple, reputed men of the
world are at times) led him into this error,
but his noble intention made him worthy of
consideration. So thought Miss Jessie Going
as she heard the ludicrous utterance of Mr.
Wheeler's feelings, and instead of derision she
gave him pity. It is hardly necessary to say
that she refused him, but the manner in which
she (lid it proved her soul as true as steel and
her heart to be of pure gold.
In spite of the severe disappointment, in the
course of a long conversation, she succeeded
in soothing him considerably. Before they
parted, she had brought him back to common
sense, and to his great astonishment he soon
found himself in a smiling, good humor, and
is happy as if Faro had not played him this
trick.
On the whole however, the effect upon Miss
Jessie was very beneficial, for although she
was very sorry for Mr. Wheeler, yet she was
gratified at the thought that such friends were
to be found among her least-esteemed acquaint-
ance, and as she had learned to esteem Mr.
Wheeler more than she had thought possible,
her views of the false world that had educated
her were correspondingly elevated, and she
felt new energy and new confidence in herself
and her fellow-creatures.
Miss Jessie would not relapse Mr. Wheeler,
and he accompanied them back to town, while
the whole trio were in far better spirits than
Walter had expected they would be after say-
ing farewell to the Priory.
*     i*      *       *     .*
" A palatial residence-it is indeed a noble
place-a regal place, Mr. Paradise," said Mr.
Christian Fatman, to the hunchbacked lawyer,
as they sat down to the first dinner in the
newly - furnished dining-hall.  Mr. Fatman
rubbed  his hands delightedly, and  looked
around the table. Mrs. Fatman sat opposite
him, and the rest of the company of ladies and
gentlemen were all from the city, and had join-
ed in a midwinter excursion into the country
for the purpose of doing justice to the sleighing,
skating, and hospitality which they had been
promised by their host.
As usual, Mr. Paradise had to make a disa-
greeable remark.
" Well, Mr. Fatman," he sneered, "if it is a
regat place, you certainly did not get posses-
sion of it by kingly means I"
An awkward silence ensued. Each one

looked at Mr. Fatman, and then at Mr. Para-
dise, and then at his neighbor, finally, con-
centrating his attention on the good things
before him. Mr. Fatman looked very uncom-
fortable, but did not conclude to take up the
gage of battle.
When the old port wine was brought out of
the closet, the door of which looked crusty and
like port wine, as Walter Going had noticed
when they first visited old John Jacob Van
Strom-when the wine was brought on the
table, and had been poured out-Mr. Paradise
arose and gave a toast:-
"To the late owner of this noble house.
May our present host prove us kind and hos-
pitable as my old friend Going; and when he
fails may he be hoisted out by as sharp practice
as was measured out to Going I"
But then Mr. Paradise was deformed, and
pity gave him license to make disagreeable
speeches.  He had long known that Mr. Fat-
man had set his heart on obtaining the Priory,
and understood perfectly well all the maueuv-
ers he had used to satisfy his desires. And
now the lawyer grudged the success which
had'crowed the rich man's schemes.
CHAPTER VII.
SO FAR, SO GOOD--nUT, HOW NOW?
"Thou wron'st a gentleman who is as far
From thy report its thou from honorr'
CYunauIsL.
WINTER had come with frost and snow,
bringing desolation to nature, and ice-cold
chills upon all the North. The airy situation
of John Van Strom's house gave freedom for
the i december gales to play their storm games
upon the trembling frame of the building, and
although Bella had the means and the taste to
make the interior comfortable, the voices of
the wild blast without put a damper upon her
fireside as well as upon those not so well defend-
ed, and the proposition of moving to town for a
few months of winter enjoyment was often ad-
vanced, and more and more favorably received-
John's moods had lately assumed a more mel-
ancholy turn, aid as his wife watched him,
crouched by the fire and staring vacantly in-
to the dancing flames on those dreary winter
nights, she felt sad and oppressed.
It was generally in the cosy dining-room,
and with a great wood tire roaring merrily, that
the married couple spent those winter evenings
in the quietest manner, and with a tinge of
irrepressible melancholy, while the lovers,
Josephine and our hero, after diligent search,
might have been discovered snugly ensconced
in some corner, screened from observation and
exiting, during those precious moments, for
and in themselves alone.
But they did not forget their duties as guests,
in return for the hospitality and kindness
which they received, and they were always
ready for a game of whist, or to engage in anmy
oihe-r amusement agreeable to their simple
host. They also made it a point to keep up

90

FELONY.

91


92                   GOING AND SON.

John's interest in ordinary matters, by con-
versing freely at the table and elsewhere upon
topics of general interest--discussing questions
of the day and commenting upon the latest
news. Thus they were seated together one
evening, John, for once in a good humor, with
Bella on the sofa near the fire, his arm wound
lightly around her substantial waist, and the
lovers opposite in a more demonstrative atti-
tude of affection. No longer was their engage-
ment a secret, and John had given his consent
in terms of most extravagant'approbation and
delight.
"1 have advices from town to-day," said
our hero, "and I am sorry to say that I hear
bad news of my former employers, Messrs.
Going &amp; Son. It seems evident that they are
struggling hard to avoid what can not be
avoided, instead of making an honorable re-
treat from their lost position, acknowledging
their defeat, but saving their honor."
"Has Walter written to you ?" asked Jose-
phine, turning her face toward him, for, we
may as well admit it, her lovely head was re-
clining on his shoulder, while his arm encircled
her figure, not quite so lightly as the arm
which embraced Bella.
"No, dear," answered Ernest; "some one
one has written to me whose confidence is too
sacred to be revealed, even to you."
Josephine was satisfied, and resumed her
former position in entire acquiescence with his
better judgment.
" Mr. Van Strom," continued our hero, " far
be it from me to presume upon meddling with
your affairs; but I was sorry that you did not
send an agent to bid on the Priory furniture.
By the way, why could you not have repur-
chased the old place? It was sold for less
than it is worth at any moment."
"I have no money," answered John, seri-
ously. "Do you suppose I ain rolling in
wealth ?"
"Really, I never investigated the subject,"
answered Montant, with a quiet smile.
" Honestly, haven't you ?" asked John, ea-
gerly, and fixing a sharp look upon his guest.
"It would have been contrary to my char.
acter and habit of mind had I done so," an-
swered Ernest, with some dignity; and as
Josephine nestled closer to him as he spoke,
he pressed her tighter to his breast.
" Mr. Montant," said John Van Strom, after a
pause, " I hope and think you speak the truth,
and as that is my opinion, I, to-night, invite you
to leave those disagreeable lodgings in the
village, and come to live altogether with me.
If I thought you were hankering after my
money, like everybody else in this accursed
world of greediness, I would hate you; but as
I believe you are honest, I love you. Take my
advice and marry that girl there as soon as
possible. Marry her, I say. John Van Strom
tells you to MARRY HER, sir," he continued,
with great energy, "and that same gentleman
means what he says I"
"I accept your invitation, with gratitude,"
answered our hero, looking into Josephine's
lace, as it was turned to meet his gaze, all ra-
diant with loving entreaty and hope and hap-
piness, "and as for marrying this girl here, I

mean to do that- very thing in less than two
weeks; that is, unless she objects."
" Of which there is great probability," in-
terposed Bella, laughing.
" And now, sir," continued John, with dig.
nity, "let us talk business, in spite of the girls'
listening. They'll find it all out, any way, yot
know."
D o you think we would, Josie ?" asked
Bella.
"If it is to be interesting," answered Jo.
sephine, "I don't so' much mind listening; but
if it is going to be dry and long-winded and
horrid, I would rather be excused."
" Well, sir,"  continued  John, without
heeding the interruption, "you are, I believe,
poor."
" Your belief, sir," answered our hero, good-
naturedly, although firmly, " is entirely wrong.
I am the undisputed possessor of nearly two
thousand dollars, and I have brains and arms
fully capable of more than supporting a wife.
If you call that poor, our ideas on the subject
differ. I ask no one's assistance, because, in
the first place, I don't need it, and secondly,
the idea of assistance is distasteful to nie."
" But," cried John, in some excitement,
".just because you do not ask it, I am going to
offer it to you! how much capital do you
want to go into business?"
"I thought you had no money!" said our
hero, laughing.
"Nonsense !   Tell me how    much you
wantI"
" Upon my word, that is hard to say," an-
swered our hero, cautiously.  "Wait till I
have a business, and then I will tell you. It
may be any imaginable sum that niy future
business will warrant me in borrowing, or it
may be not one cent."
" But I want it to be something,' cried John,
angrily. "Do you think a Van Strom can be
put off in this contemptuous manner, sir?
Do you think it is thingsg to have me, ,John
Jacob Van Strom, make you such an offer? I
will not be contradicted in this way I"
Bella gave our hero an anxious, pleading
look, for John was working himself up into
one of those fits of passion which she still
feared and strove to avoid; so Montant, catch-
ing her meaning, said, quickly,-
"You misunderstand me, and although I
can not mention a sum at present, I promise
you that I will call upon you at an early day
for what I may require."
" And that will be something," persisted
John. " Not a few hundreds, nor only a few
thousands, mind youI!"
" It will be quite enough, I assure you," re-
plied our hero.
"And you will stay at my house to-night,
and remain until you marry that girl ?"
"I will, with great pleasure."
"And you will marry her this month ?"
" Here is the bargain sealed," replied Mon-
tant, laughing, and kissing Josephine's lips.
John gave vent to an exclamation of enthusi-
asm, and running like a child to Josephine,
kissed her on both cheeks.
" Good-luck to you, sister-in-law !" he cried, ,
in the best humor. lHe then rang the bell, and

upon the appearance of the same old butler
who had been "in the family forty years," he
ordered a bottle of champagne. When he had
composed himself somewhat, he said, with
that singular acuteness in judging himself
which often characterizes people of contracted
intellect,-
"I am astonished at my liberality, to-night,
because, even though I am a fool, I am close
in money matters and shrewd in business. I
am the last man to take out my purse ; but
when I once have confidence in a man, he
aight rob me of my last dollar, and I would
give the last as readily as the first. This comes
from my stupidity, I suppose, which allows me
only one idea in my head.   But that idea,
sir," and he struck his fist on the table, "that
idea, sir, must be carried out, sir, at all
hazards I"
Hlereupon the toast of the new couple was
pledged in a merry bumper, and John heaped
the most affectionate attentions upon Bella,
showing so much sprightliness and loving
kindness, that tears of gratitude and happiness
stood in her honest eyes,
A ring at the door-bell interrupted this
friendly and interesting family party, and the
unusual event of a visitor to the lonely country-
house at this unpropitious hour (for half-past-
eight had been announced some time before
by the pretty little French clock) could but
create a sensation of half-anxious curiosity as
to the character of the one asking for admis-
si*t-
"-Mr. Stilletto, from New YorkI" announced
the old butler, who, to his disgust, was com-
pelled to answer the hall-door; which duty, he
opined, belonged to '"ordinary waiters," but
riot to such as he.
Not one of our four friends failed to expe-
riene a sort of disagreeable sensation at the
mere sound of the name. They all knew Stil-
letto. Our hero knew himintimately, as we
have seen, and the others, since the evening
when Mr. Fatman introduced his protegc inito
"good society," to the infinite gratification of'
the protege.
"I must beg pardon for this late call," sail
Mr Stilletto, with perft et self-reliance, as he
greeted the party. '"Good-evening, Mrs. Van
Strom," bowing to Bella. entirely too low to be
in good taste. "Mr. Van- Strom, your most
obedient, sir,"-" Madam " (to Josephine) "I
see you are as beautiful as ever ; and Montant,
old fellow," shaking hands with our hero, and
affecting a very cordial intimacy with him, " I
am glad to see you; but of course (with
an ,insolent leer which was intended for shy-
ness), that might have been expected." Jo-
sephine. for whose benefit this refined speech
was made, turned away with an expression of
intense annoyance, and all but John treated
the intruder with marked coldness, from the
very beginning,
With an acuteness worthy of better motives,
Stilletto saw at once how matters stood here,
and if any one could have read his heart, it
would have been perceived that the situation
was entiretly satisfactory to the wily Italian--
for what reasons, remains to be seen., He lead
not displeased John, though he might well

have feared lest he should.. He was a disa-
greeable object to the ladies and to Montant,
-this he had foreseen, and he did not care a
straw about it. John's excellent humor had
opened his simple heart to the ready welcome
of any one, and he had not brain enough to
detect the innate coarseness of the unexpected
guest.
But the favorable opening presented to Mr.
Stiletto's maneuvers, was not allowed to re-
main unimproved for a moment. That he had
some object in view was especially apparent
to the quick perception and sound judgment
of Bella Van Strom, and she had not watchedd
his cat-like movements, around the room, his
cunning ever-watchful looks, his alertness and
sharp speeches, for many moments, before she
said to herself': "This man has' an aim in in-
flicting his vulgarity on us. le is entering
upon a planned series of operations, and
I would give much to know what it is all
about."
Stilletto strained every faculty of his fertile
brain to entertain John Van Strom. ie flatter-
ed hin and drew him out until John conmmnened
to talk loudly about his own alf'irs and make
a complete fool of himself. But he had an at-
tentive and obsequious listener, and not until
he had exhausted his stock of weak, though
pardonable conceit, and had come to the end
of his conversational powers, udid Stilletto talk
more than his fascinated host. Then he comi-
inenced to tell anecdotes which aroused John's
mirth to the pitch of' boisterousness, until the
ladies, annoyed and thoroughly disgusted.
rose to retire. John bowed them- out, nuch
discontented at their coldness and scant pourt-
esy toward Stilletto; but the latter, whemn the
three gentlemen were left alone. quickly re-
stored him to good humor, by showering
praises upon Bella.
"Montant, old fellow," cried the Italian, "I
see you are at homeo uhre I how hospitable
you are, Mr. Van Strom. But then there are
reasons-of course, good reasons l"
Our hero gave hiun a look which should
have cautioned him somewhat, but he went
ou:-
"You have not re-entered business, have
you, Montant, since you were discharged-
beg pardon-I mean since you fell out with
Mr. Going?"
Our hero did not answer a syllable; but
with compressed lips kept his eyes fixed upon
the fellow with a strange light in them, which
should again have warned Stilletto; but either
hue welcomrued a possible altercation, or his
natural courage made him defiant, for lie went
on, in a sneering, imsulting tone,-
"Is it not pleasant for broken-down men to
find friends to sponge upon? I wish poor
Stilletto could find a great- gentleman to feed
and lodge him for months at a time, with a
beautiful, near relative of that same great and
rich gentleman, to marry into the bargain."
In an instant Montant was on his feet. For
one moment Stilletto seemed doomed to a ter-
rible visitation of a just wrath, and the livid
paler which suddenly overspread his face, as
he made a hasty movement behind thme table,
showed that the flashing eyes, the tharious Ire-

FELONY.                        93


94                    GOING AND SON.

mor of Montant's whole frame, had not escaped
his notice.  But at the right moment our
hero mastered himself, though only after a
severe struggle, and saying, between his
teeth,-
"Thank your stars that this is not my
house," strode to the door, and left the room.
"His house I" snarled Stilletto, more in-
censet by the fright lie had suffered, and by
the contemptuous tone, than by tue import of
the words he had just heard. "1 dare say he
thinks it is almost his already, intriguing pau-
per that he is. I do not pretend to offer any
advice to you, Mr. Van Strom, but it was very
kind in.your guest to say that this was not
his house ! A stranger might have supposed
from his general manner that lie was master
here already l"
The manner in which John had borne him-
self during the quarrel, showed how well
Stilletto had studied the ground before pro-
voking the quarrel.  lis most sanguine
expectations had been realized. and that, not
after weeks of careful strategy, but on his very
first visit. He hadt dared to throw the gatnt-
let of defiance at Eriest Montant, ane gJohn
Van Strom had taken sides with him. What
could follow, but that the two ladies would
take Motait's part, discord would reign be-
theen Motiait and the ladies, against Jotn.
Then was it not within le range of proba-
bility that John would need an ally, and by
proper management, why should there not be
a firm alliance between the " great and rch
gentleman" and Antonio Stilletto?
Yes, Johin's fickle, unstable mind, worked
upon by tme etniing remarks of the intruder,
had imstantaneously changed against our hero,
the man upon whom, but half an hour pro-
vutsly, lie had lavished everyyianifestationi
of friendship and good will. Stilletto had made a
masterly attack.  le had opened the way to
John's good will by amusing him, and then,
when lie had gained his confidence, launched
into his weak and impressible mid the
poisoned arrows of suspicion, upon which base
the crafty villain designed to erect the super-
structure of his intrigue.
John Van Strom had not only failed to re-
sent the impertineices offered to his guest by
Stiletto. but had maintained a dogged silence,
which encouraged the bold offender. John,
however, seemed satisfied when Montant had
lef, the room, and said,-
Let us have a social glass of wine, Stil-
lmtto I  We can be merrier without that
solemn chap's companionship.
"Cote, sirs, let us drink,
While the glasses chink," &amp;c.,
he roared, at the top of his voice, as if pos-
sessed. by some demon, while lie filled both
glasses to the brim, and emptied his at one
gulp. Stilletto was not slow in following his
example, and another bottle of champagne
having been called for, the neo friends be-
came more and more charmed with each other.
Such au ,acute general as the Italian had
proved himself, would not lose this golden
opportunity for defaming the character of
Montant, and lie accordingly put in many

severe and cutting remarks about that gentle-
man, until, at a late hour, good or evil fortune
brought the latter into thne room.
He had just left Josephine and Bella, to
whom lie had complained, in a manly, dignifiedi
way, of the manner in which John had pr-
mitted the almost incredible insolence of Mr.
Stilletto, and he informed them that lie would
not consent to remain under their roof that
night. unless amends were made to him fhr
the insults he had received. To Bella's sot-
rowful prediction, that such a demand would
only lead to general discord, our hero quietly
assured her that he would bear the conse-
quences alone; that his action was dictated by
his manhood and sense of honor, and he re-
mained deaf to their entreaties for peace. "I
think I need not ask him for the privilege of
marrying you, my dear Josephine; and I nun
quite sure that I am independent of him, or his
pecuniary assistance, as I told him very
distinctly."
So he came back to the room where the new
friends were enjoying themselves, and imme-
diately upon encountering their more curious
than leased glances, informed them of his
erraitd.
"Mr. Van Strom, after recovering from my
momentary anger, I have returned to ask you,
as host here, whether you will kindly hint to
Mr. Stilletto, that in choosing the protecion
of your roof, from which to safely attack me,
lie has made a mistake; and that in insulting
me, lie has insulted you--my host -anI ldt
you require an apology made to me at once
inst nel of answering, Join, with a malicious
grin, turned to Stilletto and said,-
Answer, friend."
" Do not open your lips I" cried our hero,
trembling with the rage which was fast gaining
the utmstery-. "Not a word from  you," lie
added, between his teeth, turning so squarely
upon Stilletto, that the latter, borne back by
that fiery glance, recoiled to the very wall.
"Not one word, at your perilI"
" Well, then," cried John, with a red face,
and flashing eyes, "I'l answer you
But at this moment Bella appeared at the
door. She had no sooner cast one look at her
husband, than she was at his side. Half a
year ago he might have east her from him in
contemptuous fury, as lie had done at the
Priory; but she had not made himt her study
and sole object in life without gaining more
power over him than she then possessed
Power of what kind ? Call it magnetism; call
it cunning; call it will-power, or love, or the
influence of one human soul upon another;
but it was a power sufficient to lead him out
of that room, in spite of the mad attack that
was upon him, and which in another moment
would have carried him beyond control.
White as death, his under-lip quivering, as
we have seen it before, Stilletto stood, his
eyes flashing forth a world of hatred, confront-
ing our hero in the impotent fury of a chained
dog.   He knew that he    had   no chance
against that man, as he stood with his arms
folded, his -eyes riveted on him, his breast
heaving, and his lips drawn tight, in the effort
to be eahlm; but Stilletto's evil genius drowned

his prudence in the mad boiling of his South-
ern blood, and although his physical instinct
kept him from attempting violence, his ungov-
ernable tongue hissed.these fatal words,-
"Where is your hussy?   Why don't she
come and take you up-stairs ?"
The words had hardly escaped his white
lips, when every fiber of his mind and body
thrilled with fear for the consequences. An
arm of iron was upon him. Blows that knew
no moderating restraint showered upon him,
marking his villainous face and body, and he
felt himself dragged through the hall, knew
that the front door was opened, and with a
quick succession of parting blows, he rolled
down the steps upon the grass, in front of the
piazza, and heard the door close behind him,
leaving him alone with darkness,-and no in-
considerable amount of pain, from the punish-
ment received. It took him some time to
recover any thing like composure. Ils first
thought was to ring the door-bell, and ask for
his hat, which had been forgotten in his hasty
exit; but he did not dare to confront that man
again. In the midst of his dismay, and mad
vexation, and pain, and confusion, lie reinem-
bered that at the first onset he had given up
his life as lost; but that our hero had stud-
denly ceased his blows, and contented-himself
with k'eking him out like a dog, evidently de-
siring to spare his life. So Stilletto came to
the conclusion that he had got off pretty well,
all things considered; and thinking to himself;
"the next time he might finish nc entirely,"
he sneaked away from the house, out into the
road and darkness, with thoughts that will be
umderstood'when we see to what actions they
brought him.
In the meanwhile, our hero had sunk into a
hall chair, exhausted, not by his physical
efforts, but by the frenzy Which had mastered
him.
et he felt relieved, and when' one or two
frightened servants appeared, he laughed and
told them the circumstances in a few words.
Josephine had heard the noise, slight as it was,
for Stilletto had not called for help, he belong-
ed to a more dangerous class of dogs than
those that bark.  The widow had retired ;
but, hastily throwing a wrapper around her,
came down stairs, pale and frightened at all
sorts of dangers which had suggested them-
selves to her imagination. Her lover caught
her in his arms, and reassured her. Bella now
appeared from her room, which was situated
in another part of the house.
" What happened ?" she inquired, anxiously.
"I heard noises, though John only asked who
had left, when he heard the hall door closed.
I can imagine all," she added, looking atten-
tively at our hero. "You have treated the
fellow as he deserved, and he left alone instead
of with you, as I'told my husband to keep him
quiet. I am very glad indeed that the wine
had somewhat blunted John's sense of hear.
ing !"
They then held a council of war. At first
our hero insisted upon leaving the house that
night, as usual, and going to his lodgings
at tie village hoteL. But the earnest prayers
of his fair friends prevailed upon him to

remain, lest Stilletto, who might be lying
in ambush for him, should seek his revenge
by striking at his life from some dark cor-
ner.
So he spent the whole night in the dark
parlor, without closing h-s eyes in sleep, think-
ing over the occurenees of the evening and of
all the possible consequences; and at the first
peep of dawn he left the house, whose host,
but a few hours previous had offered hin
unbounded hospitality, with the firm resolve
never to enter it again.
CHAPTER VIII.
GREAT SUcCESS.
"I'l pour this pestilence into his ear."
OTHELLO.
Ma. STILLETTo had 'laid out a grand and
comprehensive plan of action, with a definite
object in view.
Although unexpected success, as already
stated, had crowned his first interview with
John Van Strom, it was not pride that now
inspired him as lie strode rapidly along, enter-
taining himself by violent gesticula tions, hrry-
ing through the black night away from toh
scene of his late degradation and well-imeri ted
punishment. Without his hat, and his coat
torn, his whole attire and his hair no less dis-
ordered than was his mind, by the sudden vio-
lent stop put upon his promising imtrigues, lie
sought among the scattered buildings of the
village, the house were lie and Mr. Muller had
taken up their quarters, and whither we will
now precede him, and pay a respectful visit
to the great philosopher.
Oh, for philosophy and a pipetI What a
great man 1err Muller thought himself as lie
allowed the fire in the stove before him to ir-
radiate its rays of heat upon his lean body?
How disdainful of all other worldly wisdom
than his own, was the egotistical sneer on his
lip, and how compassionately he mentally re-
garded that poor humanity which did not
appreciate his grand philosophy 1 But with
all his superiority, there was one tender spot
in that great soul, there was one weakness, a
strong weakness, and it took the name of beer.
Beer it was that enlivened the companionship
of his pipe, beer it was that changed the roar-
ing of the storm out doors into soothing music
to his ears, and it was beer that beguiled the
time of waiting for the return of Stilletto, who
had gone through the rain and wind to pay
his first visit to John Van Strom and to play
the first move in the game those two acute
intellects had planned-out.
The room in which they sat was one of a
suite which they had hired in an tincomfort-
able summer boarding-house. The furniture
was uncomfortable in shape, while imposing
in color, the walls were bare, and the lamp
dim. In a remote corner the Italian girl re-
t clined on a lounge, mute and motionless. She
hardly ever -addressed her conversation to
Muller, for she hated him. In fact site hated
most people, and especially herself.

FELONY.                    . 95


96                    GOING AND SON.

When the lights in the village had all dis.
appeared, and honest people had gone to bed,
there they still remained in perfect silence,
with nothing but their own reflections to break
the dreary monotony of the storm without,
until they finally heard a noise at the door, and
rapid steps in the hall and on the staircase
forwarning them of the arrival of Mr. Stilletto.
Muller, with his usual dignity, did not change
his position, or even turn his head when his
chum  entered.  Simonetta being "in the
sulks," as Stilletto would say, did not seem
aware of his presence, until he cried, angrily,-
"Can't you look up, you cursed   fools?
Here I come half beside myself with fury, and
you dare to run the risk'of turning it to mad-
ness ! Look to your rotten bones, you drunken
devil; and you, hussy, in the corner, come
out into the light or 1'll leave my mark on
you I"
Simonetta remained motionless until he ad-
dressed her in Italian, when she arose and went
toward him reluctantly enough. Muller now
deigned to turn around, and raised his eye-
brows, while he took a survey of Stilletto's
condition.
"Sit -down," he said, deliberately, pointing
to a chair. Stilletto,- upon whom exhaustion
and vexation began to have an effect, obeyed.
"So lie beat you, I see," said the philoso-
pher, crossing one leg over the other, and
lighting a fresh pipe.
" Who beat me, you drunkard," snarled
Stilletto.
" Mr. Stilletto," replied the other, loftily,
" August Muller can not, must not, will not con-
descend to be insulted by the vulgar epithets
suggested to your vile lips ,by your innate
coarseness ! Fit your tongue to my dignity,
sir, and we will further discuss the accident
which has befallen you, if I may judge by your
disheveled hair, your bleeding countenance,
and withal the vehemence of your manner."
"'The English of which is, I suppose, that
I look as if I had got a good thrashing. Well,
it is true."
" Candor graces the hero and removes the
stain from the coward," said Mr. Muller, with
a sneer.
Without regaining his temper, Stilletto re-
lated what we already know of his visit
to John Van Strom. Muller's face brightened
with an unwholesome satisfaction as he heard
of Stilletto's success-that the seed of discord
had been already sown in that quiet house-
hold, and that, at that moment, the Italian
probably stood higher than any one else in
Van Strom's confidence. Stilletto's ejaculations
of hate, and threats of revenge, with which he
accompanied his narrative failed to disturb the
serenity which beamed from the philosopher's
countenance, and when all had been told, and
Stilletto, worked up into a snarling fury, fin-
ally ceased, exhausted, Muller answered,-
" All is well, my worthyfriend! The cam-
paign has opened gloriously."
" The devil it has I That-"
" Don't waste your time on eloquence," in-
terrupted Muller. "Revenge thou shalt have.
Be patient and wait till the time comes."
" How shall I have my revenge ?"

" Not by dirk or dagger-not by suit or
libel-not by any of those mad proceedings by
which people heap additional trouble on their
stupid heads I Be calm and we will consult."
"But revenge I will have, even to his
death," cried Stilletto.
"Well, we'lltry to have his life for it,"
whispered Muller. mysteriously. " But not
by murdering him! Oh, no !"
" I promise to be quiet and wait patiently,
if I can be certain that he will have to drain
a bitter cup for this."
At this moment Stillett-happened to glance
at the Italian girl. She had taken a seat near
them and was gazing steadily upon his face.
There was a something in her look that did
,not suit him, and he told her, angrily, to leave
the room. She compelled him to repeat the
order in Italian. and then slowly rose to obey.
With a defiant air, she was passing through
the door, when he, dying to revenge himself
on somebody for his hurts, ran after her and
actually kicked her.
It was more the insult than the violence of
the blow that sent the blood to her face, leav-
ing it an instant after, deathly pale. Her eyes
flashed, her lips quivered, and with a quick
movement, her hand sought something hidden
in her bosom. Stilletto knew her, and recoiled
a step, searching for the weapon he was ac-
customed to wear concealed about his person,
but, with an exclamation-of fear, he discovered
that it was lost. She did not draw, however, but
turned away and sought her own chamber after
darting one look of scorn and hatred at him.
"I promise to wait patiently if I can be
certain he will have to drain a bitter cup," she
soliloquized, repeating his last remark. "That
fool ! He knows what revenge means, and
swears his soul away to obtain it, and yet he
is not afraid of me."
" I have lost my dirk 1" said Stilletto, when
he had closed the door upon her. "I must
have lost it in the fight I had up there, for I
know I grabbed it."
"Then it must be in Van Strom's house
now," said Muller, sagely, and meeting no
contradiction, the philosopher added, thought-
fully,-
" None but an idiot disdains to use the little
incidents which chance throws in the way1"
We shall see before very long what re-
sulted from this dirk left in Van Strom's house
and will leave these two to prolong their con-
sultation, which did not treat exclusively of
holy subjects, to the small hours of the night.
*      *    ,*        *      *
After this Stilletto frequently repeated his
visits to John, and a change came over
the household at Van Strom's. The mental
condition of poor John, approaching to posses-
sion of perfect reason, reached to a state of
gloom, varying with irritation. Dark thoughts
and evil suspicions, oppressed him too pal-
pably to escape the anxious solicitude of his
faithful wife, who now saw reason to fear that
the results of her unflinching energy, constant
attention, and intelligent treatment would be
lost entirely. Her husband, whom shea had
accustomed to regard her in the spirit of an
obedient, confiding child, became sometimes

perfectly obdurate to all her best timed and
most skillfully contrived blandishments and
counsels. He even repelled her attentions as
he had not done since the dark days that had
now nearly passed away from her memory,
and at such times, his look and manner warn-
ed her of actual danger. In former paroxysms,
his sullenness or anger were only momentary,
evincing no malice whatever; but now his
monomania was too well defined to be name-
less. The demons of distrust and suspicions,
galled him and fevered his ill-balanced brain,
constantly gaining strength from him who had
first planted those devilish passions in his soul.
He thought that he had been blind before,
and knew not, poor fool, how utterly pervert-
ed his sight had now become; that he thought
he perceived what did not exist at all; that
he was stimulating every faculty by frantic
efforts to detect what only existed in his own
poisoned imagination; while, at the same time,
he could not recognize that the devil, in hu-
man guise, was his teacher.
Stilletto's plan, that this poor, rich man
should suspect his wife of being leagued with
Montant and Josephine in designs upon his
money, had succeeded marvelously well, and
much sooner than he had hoped for. Intelli-
gence and bravery are closely allied in human
nature-men of small intellect are cowards!1
John had not the courage to confront his
wife with open accusations; but he distressed
and offended her by ill-humor and petty in-
sults, and availed himself of every opportunity
to wound her by malcious hints too coarse to
be misunderstood.
"John," she saidone morning,whenbreakfast
had been removed. "John," she repeated, strug-
gling between tears and well-founded anger,
"I can not pretend not to see the recent
change in your tone and manner to me. It
would be a strange woman that would not
seek an explanation. I ask only for justice.
As your wife, as a lady, I ask for kindness
and love from you. You have banished Jo-
sephine from the table by your rudeness,
which you no longer care to restrain. Where
is your manliness, your chivalry, that you can
not a treat a lady, a guest, your own sister-in-
law with respect, while you know that she
can not yet leave your house ! I have borne
in silence what I have tried to attribute to
some passing eccentricity-but, I must speak
plainly at last, as your loving, faithful -wife
always, and also as a woman determined to
preserve her own dignity."
It was true that John had become so point-
edly insulting in his remarks to Josephine, in-
timating no less than that her lover was a
needy adventurer, intriguing  for pecuniary
gain, that she refused to meet him any more,
even at meals. When his wife had concluded,-
John had not the hardihood to reply angrily.
Distrust and cowardice are awkward compan-
ions in a man's mind, and forced him to sullen,
and obstinate silence like a spoiled child. Bel-
la's power was great, and she knew it well;
but with a pang of despair she felt that she
-had to fight against a concealed foe, and that
her straightforward appeal fell upon a ground
all undermined by treachery and fiendish cun-
7'I

ning. So successfully had Stilletto prepared
him against scenes like this, which he had
foreseen must occur between the husband and
his wife, that with the little Satan's teachings
fresh in his mind, he turned a deaf ear to her,
determined not to be deceived and coaxed over
though, at the same time, he was morally
powerless to give expression to his distorted
sentiments.
The door-bell rang.- With an ill-tempered
scowl, he rose in silence, like a whipped cur, to
leave the room.
" John," said Bella, agitated, in a pleading
tone, "my heart tells me that something evil
is approaching. If Mr. Stilletto is at the door,
do not see him. For the love of God and your
poor wife, my dear, dear husband, do not listen
to him."
This earnest pleading, amounting almost to
an agony, penetrated his soul. For a. moment
he wavered; for a moment he looked at her
like a penitent child; but as she was about
throwing her loving arms around him to se-
cure her, as yet, doubtful victory, the door
opened--Stilletto entered, and, as if his pres-
ence dissolved at once the newly-woven tie
between them, Van Strom recoiled from his
wife's embrace, and welcomed his visitor with
a grin of delight.
With a low mean bursting from her anguish-
ed heart at this her latest and most lamentable
defeat, Bella stood for a moment motionless,
and then dropped into a chair and averted her
face from her cruel enemy.
"Good morning, madam," said Stilletto,
with unmistakable impertinence of tone, cast-
ing upon her repelling attitude a glance of
unspeakable impudence, which revealed his
whole nature. "I trustyou are as well as the
bright look on your face would seem to indi-
cate, this morning."
As Bella did not choose to notice him in
the  least, John, still without the cour-
age or desire to upbraid her, took Stilletto by
the arm familiarly, and led him out of the
room and away from the house.
Hours elapsed before Bella left the seat at
the window in which she had taken refuge,
thence she watched her husband walking, arm-
in-arm with the Italian, away across the fields
toward the village.
" He is taking him to his lodgings, doubt-
less," conjectured Bella.  " There they will
ply him with drink and thus prepare him to
believe all kinds of falsities. Where can. I
find counsel? where can I took for hope or
for help in this terrible danger? I am seeing
him being ruined, body and soul, and I, his
wife, am powerless, powerless as a stranger, to
rescue him from his peril t"
" A change must come," she sighed, ile-
spondingly. "This can not go on forever. A
change must, must take place I" and a hundred
times that day did her prophetic soul re-echo
the words, " A great change will come, may
come soon, and God grant his aid when it is
at handle"
*      *      *      *       *      *
" I tell you what it is, Stilletto," said John,
as the two ill-assorted friends crossed the
fields, on their way to the village. "I tell you

FELONY.             -       97


98                    GOING AND SON.

that my wife is not like other women; she's   "I do not blame Mrs. Van Strom," said
different.  I had a talk with her this morning  Stilletto, with calculating urbanity.  "On the
and, I must say, she don t talk as if she had a contrary, I think it would be wrong to charge
guilty conscience !"                        her- with any more than human wickedtnessh
"Guilty conscience !" said Stilletto, shrug- True honesty, true friendship, true love, even -
ging his shoulders. "I don't see that a per- Truth herself, have all vanished from  the
son must needs have a guilty conscience for earth! Look at the scene which occurs on
trvir r to obtain what all the world covets. I the death of a rich man! How those he loved
do not say, or pretend to say, that your wife, forget their hypocritical tears, in their wrang-
who is a splendid woman-"                   ling over his property ! How his very meno-
You are right I" cried John, much grati- ry becomes but a barometer of his wealth, and
fled.  "A splendid woman is Bella !"        how the grief of liis bereaved relatives is only
"I do not pretend to say," continued Stil- a copy of his last will, by which any fool can
letto, " that she would use foul means to ac- read to whom the property was bequeathed.
complish her object. What wrong is there    When the best men are poor, they are stran-
in marrying a man for his money and then de- gers in the world; then how can a rich moan
voting herself to him  as sIte has done ?  No  believe in the existence of a love for him that
harm that I can see ! She has earned what is not dependent on his money !"
you paid her in advance. And it is all right   Thus holding the first place in conversation,
and proper !"                               taking the lead, and endeavoring to destroy
" But I tell you she loves me," said John, the holiest and best attributes of humna m--
faintly.                                    tore, by crafty insinuations of Bella's guilt,
"Of course she does, and faithfully. Does Stilletto employed the duration of their walk
not the dog love his master who fteds lint ? froim Van Strom's house to the place where ho
Indeed, he is devoted to his owner; but, had  anid the philosopher had taken up their abode.
any other man bought him, he would have    Mr. Muller received them with a stateliness of
loved that other just as well. Such, also, is mutainner, designed to disguise his delight at
human affection, and, say what you please    Van Strom's visit; for August Muller could
about disinterested devotion. I assure you that not condescend  to fawn and cringe before
the rich and powerful are the masters.~and the any man, not even the highest upon earth,
poor are their most affectionate and devoted  though, just then, Van Strom was the tman
dogs."                                      of all others whom he most desired to wel-
That lie dared thus to speak to the husband- come.    -
about hi wife, without fear or compunction,  "Mr. Van Strom," said he, motioning him
showed the influence of Stilletto over Vai to a seat, with the air of an ass seated ipoi a
Strom, which can only be accounted for )y his throne, "August Muller bids you welcetlie,
remarkable knowledge of all that is weak and  sir, welcome as a friend. sir, and,'I tell you, that
bad in human nature.                        -but few have attained that title. August Muil-
It is plain enough," continued Antonio, in, her, sir, can not offer you princely hospitality
a- nonchalant tone, little demonstrative of his or huxury, for the reverses of life have humi-
anxiety to finish the work (so well beuun ) of' 1 bled him to the station of expounding the law,
poisoning John's mind. "It is an old story. which ]mn.s poverty."
yet some people shut their hearts to the moral  "h Inever heard that before," said John,
of it. A rich gentleman, in a moment of     rather puzzled.
thoughtless weakness, allows himself and his   " Because, in your station of life, Mr. Van
fortune to be won by a poor and low-born    Strot, you have only taet those lawyers'who
girl,--and, would you believe, that this same  mqt1ke the world's wealth their scene of opera-
gentleman oftentimes will tell you, with every tinis, taking care of the property of the rich
appearance of sincerity, that his wife mutarrie'd and appropriating the ' pickings ' with imiodest
him for lovely Pooh, Van Strom ! ('hillike but intlexible persistency. But Atugust Miii-
trust and perfect belief in the holiness of hn. ler's ambition soars above the counting of
man motives, are not adapted to this practical gold! hIis brain belongs to justice, plating
and merciless agy I" by night and pleading by day, to rescue perse-,
The reader can imagine what strategy of the cnted innocence from the clutches of the huw.
tongue had been accomplished    before this This is my profession, and, though it leaves
plausible fellow could venture upon speeches  tue poor, it is building me an eternal monu-
like this; how complete his power over Van m ent inthe hearts of those Ihave saved and
Strom, before he could be certain that the lat- restored to light and life !"
ter's wrath (never entirely asleep) would -not " Most of whom should be in State's Prison
turn upon the accuser, instead of the accused. instead," was on Stilletto's lips, but he thought
John thought that lae had just been awak- of his visitor, and contented himself with a
ened to the true state of affairs. His narrow, sneer and a meaning look, only perceived by
though not obtuse, intellect immediately u'e- Muller.-
membered a hundred circumstances, which        "Well, sir," said Van Strom, rather nervous
seemed, under the searching philosophy of on his chair, and doubtful whether to be fave-
Stillotto, to favor the conviction that Bella (as rably impressed with Muller's harangue, or to
well as Josephine and Montant, whose verdict be put on his guard, "you promised some tes-
haid long been sealed) was nily a calculating,. tinonials of your character and standing be-
greedy wretch, feeding on him during his life fete [ employed youm as mny attorney."
anid anxiouisly awaiting the moment of' ~hi' "hIere they are, sir," answered the other,
death, to take entire possession of her prey. produmcinig a bundle of letters. " Here are the

FELON

tributes of the Atridau to Nestor, the voices of
the Romans in favor of Cicero1"
"I don't understand you," said Van Strom,
a little nettled.  " Let's to business."  One of
the letters was from  Carrions, recommending
Muller as a reliable, even eminent man in his-
profession. Now, Mr. Carrions, with all his
merciless shrewdness in business, was not a
likely man to give .a character to a pettifog-
ging "Tombs lawyer ;" but Stilletto and Mul-
ler, by more wonderful than infrequent maneu-
vers, had gained his good graces to such an
extent, that'he could not refuse the letter now
before Van Strom. This, with others not less
uiundeserved, removed all doubt in the poor
gentlemnan's mind, and he could but consider
Muller a very respectable man.
Well, then, we will proceed to the drawing
up of my new will," said John.
"Stilletto, withdraw," quoth Muller, with a
pompous wave of the hand.
Mr. Stilletto obeyed, and when he was re-
called, after the elapse of an hour, Mmiller's
fate was radiant fiom another cause thai beer,
aid the instrument was then properly signed
and witnessed.
And you understand that the suit against
that rascal, Ebena Bates, is to e pushed vigor-
ousl ?" asked Van Strom. Stilletto started at
these wor(is, but a look from Muller restrained
him, while the lawyer immediately volunteered
an explamation.
"ir. Van Strom, Stilletto, has loaned .Judlge
Bates fifteen thousand dollars, upon a mtort-
gage oi the judge's dwelling-house.  It now
appears that another tumid  prim' nortgattge
exists, which makes Mr. Yan Strom's security
almost worthless, andt mty esteemedc client has
authorized mie to associate myself with some
first-class practitioner in the Massachusetts
courts, and bring a suit against the judge for
false pretences. That, now most clearly proved.
scoundrel, also drew up Mr. Van Strom's will,
which is now set aside, made null and void,
by this document. ~ Is is a great document,
sir. It rends asunder every thread of a most
adroitly-woven intrigue, and bears the stamp
of justice amid wisdom.
" Well, I'll go now !" said Van Strom,somne-
what abistratctely. [ie felt Nervous atld half'
ustatistied. and now that the deed was done,
somethintodg t  hit that he might have made
a -mist:ike: but Stilletto's itinueice over his
weak miil prevented him from drawing back,
and tking fuuthier time for consideration.
Stilleto aicottpaniied him from the room.
hitthiout asking any questions about the will,
lie enjoined the strictest secrecy by the most
convincing arguments his slyness could sug-
gest, tumid boldly aiecised Bella, and Josephin.e
and her lover. of' having  plotted together
against him ever since his marriage.
Feeling  tolerably  certain  of  his dupe,
Stilletto then returned to Muller, who received
himi itm ant etstasy of ext ra beer and intensified
VohuBnem's iof' smoke. Antonio now heard what
lie know very well would never have come
from .ohnl Van Strom unaided by the philoso-
phic laiwyer.
t omy friend," cried Muiller, "you and
Fatmam and~ 1 are tustees of this immense

)NY                                      99
property. Bella Smith, the tailor's daugh-
ter, receives one-third only, and the rest is left
to lunatic asylums and other charitable insti-
tutions. August Muller, sir, instilled into this
man's heart, the highest principles of charity,
and he has left his property nobly."
" A third is too much for Mrs. Van Strom,"
growled Stilletto.
" Would you have me risk all, by attacking
the impregnable position which his dear wife
holds in his affections?"
All right, then. Nothing for us, hey?"
Ten thousand each for our valuable ser-
vices as trustees; that's all," said Muller.
" That all. hey ?" asked Stilletto, with a
truly satanic expression. " But of course it is
an honor to be trustees l"
"He wanted to make it more," said Muller,
"but I entreated hinm not to do so. I told him
that to prove our disinterested  friendship,
with the honor we attain, is worth more than
mere money."
" We will take care of his property, won't
we?"_
" We will, sir."
A nd  that of the widow, too," cried
Stilletto.
Which widow ?" asked Muller, sharply.
" Oh, she is not a widow yet I" sighed Stil-
letto. "I wish she were."
For her sake, 1 join in the wish,." answered
Muller, with benevolence, pullinig away at his
pipe. " Ilie can not make her happy, and it is
pure charity to wish lie were dead. But now
I will depart to seek my associate in the suit
against Judge Bates."
low about Montant, the superseded exe-
entor ?" hissed Stilletto, detaining himi. "lBow
about my'revenge ?"
All in good time," said Muller, and having
now  worried on his overchat, he left the
house.
The interview  with Van Strom and the
above conversation took place in the front
parlor, which was separated from the back
parlor by a sliding door, closed when Van
Strom  first arrived.  When Mr. Muller set
fittth on his professional mission, Stilletto
walked to this door and opened it. 11is tove-
mnttts were always quick and noiseless, and as
he had not tarried in approaching the sliding
dlootr, lie opened it almost simultaneously with
tle philosopher's ftrewell sentence.
ie stood motionless-Simotetta was in the
room, and his experienced eye at once con-
vineetl him that she had been listening, though
she had made a hasty retreat, the instant she
saw  the door move. Stilletto's eyes darted
fire. Livid, trembling, frenzied with rage, he
stood like a tiger ready to spring upon his vic-
tim, his head and chest bent forward, his
under-lip quivering, and such madness in his
face that the girl, in turn, changed color, seri-
ously alarmed.
"You have been listening!l What did you
hear?   Confesss" hissed Stilletto, int a voice
she hardly recogntized.
"Nothing! May thie .Uoly Virgin forsake
me-" shte faltered arid stopped, arrested by
the expression of that demoniac white face
before her. With a benumbing sensation, she


GOING AND SON.

FELONY.

read in the amazemont on that face what she
had done. She had spoken English!/ At this
moment she gave herself up as lost, she knew
he would kill her. In a moment of terror she
had betrayed her secret, shown him that she
knew, that she must know many of his secrets ;
that though she had loved him, she had never
trusted him; but had acted a double part to
gain power over him. She knew that there
was no hope of his mercy.
His fury, violent enough to fetter him for a
moment, soon burst forth. He made a rush
at the door, to lock it. She knew that if he
succeeded, her life was lost.  Mortal fear
breaks the paralytic spell of despair, she
reaches the door before lie does; she is in the
hall; he seizes her hair flowing behind and
drags her to the ground. Foaming at the
mouth, every feature savagely distorted, every
muscle swelled to iron strength, he beats her
unmercifully, while with agonizing cries she
struggles to make her escape. Finally she
manages to reach the hilt of her concealed
dagger with one hand; the steel is bare, the
point is toward his heart, he forces it from
her hand,tbut in the struggle for its possession
she breaks away from his grasp.
Great philosophers are-apt to be absent.
minded in small matters: Muller has left the
door open. With one last piercing cry she
rushed out of the house and fled away across
country as if pursued by the furies.
Stilletto found pursuit unadvisable (for sev-
eral laborers were in the field at work, in the
direction she had taken), so lie took a position
at one of the windows whence lie could watch
her course, and contemplated the situation. 1
His anger subsided, and, singular contrast, lie
began to feel sorry for her, and to wish it
never had happened.
"Such forms is her's are not intended to be
thrashed, after all,'' he muttered, "and yet I
would have killed her, if she had not got
away! She has saved her life and niy neck
from a hempen cravat I" le thought of her
deceit, of his unaccountable obtuseness in not
suspecting that she understood English, d'ur-
ing his constant intercourse with her. He re-
membered their first meeting, and how it had
astonished hini that she could not speak the
prevailing language, how  he  had  hardly
credited it, but had finally believed, it to this
day. le admired her for her craftness and
self-control, and now that she was gone, he
told himself that ho had almost loved her.
"The only woman in the world that I ever
really loved has been a lurking enemy, a spy
upon all my actions," lie continued, bitterly,
and with this reflection, lie threw away the last
regret for her loss. The fierceness of his anger
returned, in some measure, and it is certain
that the treachery of this woman made even
such a wicked man worse than he had been.
The brutality of his nature, awakened by
his cruelty to her, took a firmer hold of him
than ever, after he had east away all his for-
mer affection for her, and when he left the
house soon after, for the purpose of dogging
her steps to see what mischief she might be
up to (for did she not carry his secrets and an
Italian woman's revenge'in her heart ?), his

determination might have been correctly ex.
pressed by those terrible words of Glou-
cester:-
"And since I find I can not prove a lover,
I am determined to prove a villain I"
When August Muller returned, he found.
instead of Stilletto, a few lines left for him
by that gentleman.
" See no one. Hold on to the will at all haz.
ards. Get our money and portable valuables
together and wait in the house or in the neigh.:
hood till I return."
.So the great philosopher waited.
CHAPTER IX.
CROUCHING FOR THE SPRING.
" Time, thou anticipat'st my dread exploits;
Te fhiem ty purpose never is o'ertook,
Unless the deed go with it."-MACBETH.'
WHEN John Van Strom, in company with
his delightful friend, Stilletto, left his wife to
solitude and the discomforts which mark a
household immediately after breakfast has beei
removed, Bella found herself in a more thotu
unhappy mood. The routine of housekeeping,
so satisfactory to all womanly women, iulel
to divert her mind from anxiety, and-she soon
found her way back to the window and passed
through one of those hours in life when we
realize our utter helplessness, and appeal to
God for aid and comfort. A complication of
dangers and sorrows was crowding around
her; she saw her husband ensnared in the nets
of a fiend, her cherished sister, in a most hu-
miliating situation, and her friend Montant,
thwarted in his hopes and enterprises; Joseph-
ine's happiness and very existence jeopardized,
and all because a contemptible villain hald
wrenched from her the influence over her
husband which she had attained as thereward
of her unbounded devotion to him and her un-
faltering persistency in serving and watching
over him.
As John, returning from Stilletto's, passed
by the stable on his way to the house, the
same old coachman who had once driven the car-
riage that took him to be christened, approach-
ed him with a dismal expression. John's heart
was filled with apprehensions, which, after a
few words, culminated -in great grief. They
reached the stable-door. Open it softly, you
old servant, enter with an awe-inspired tread,
bereaved master, and let your sorrow speak
but in whispers, for the presence of death is
here. Stiff and cold, felled to the earth by
quick and cruel disease, John's adored mare
lies in her stall. Her wondrous spirit has
gone to await him on the road to heaven, pro.
bably with the faithful intention of dragging
him up to St. Peter's porch in some spirit char-
iot. Good-bye to your ladvhood, poor Bella!
Your eccentricities have been exceeded by
your fidelity, and Johan Van Strom forgives
them all and bemoans your good qualities.
|Your memory wvill be more honored than that

of many human beings who live and pass
away unappreciated by men that probably
think themselves sages, compared with John
Van Strom.
But John, in his simplicity, bewails his loss,
and great, honest tears trickle down his home-
ly face. His mind and nervous system had
undergone many trials since his acquaintance
with Stilletto. His wavering reason had not
been perverted without many a torturing
doubt and fear, and his temper, leading him on
to crazy haste of action, had destroyed his
peace. Utterly at war with himself, despond-
ent, stung by remorse, still unyielding in his
morbid tenacity, and withal, as weak in mid
and body as a child, it took but some definite
emotion, such as the loss of his mare, to un-
string him  completely. In this condition lie
entered the house to find his wife still at her
window, staring into the void of her thoughts
in listless dejection.
Ile sank into a chair, and a sob burst from
him, which startled Bella into a consciousness
of his presence, for she had not heard him enter.
"What does    this mean, husband ?" she
asked, rising from her chair and approaching
him.
" It means that I have lost the only thing I
loved on earth. My mare is dead i"
She stopped short. This was too much.
At first hot anger,. even hatred, surged up
from her heart, and choked her utterance, but
they gave way before the utter misery wrought
by his idiotic ingratitude and cruelty, and re-
gaining her seat she sank back into it and
burst into tears. He misunderstood the cause
of her emotion entirely, and said, softly,---
"That's right, my love. Weep for her, for
she was true to me, and now poor John has
not a friend left in the world." -
She came to his side, she knelt by him, she
encircled him with her arms, and laid her head
on his breast.
"And have I not been true to you, John, and
am I nothing left to you?"
"You have, indeed, you have, Belle," he
answered, somewhat incoherently, not resist-
ing her embrace, and laying his hands on her
devoted head. "  And you see it was she that
won you, it is to her that I am indebted for my
darling wife, and that made her holy to me."
Still his wife clung to him.
" lla," he continued, almost in a whisper,
a strange feeling possesses me. It seems to
me as if my head was free from confusion and
my thoughts clear. Have I not been an idiot'
all my life, my dear wife ?"
There was something in his simplicity and
Soothing tone that made Bella's heart swell
with regained hope.
"Answer me, Bella," said John, drawing
her toward him with a right smile, which
broke like a ray of light through all the heavy
clouds which had darkened his soul. " An-
swer me, Bella, have I not always been an
idt ?"-
She was on his knees, and through tears of
happiness, looked in his face. And though he
here marks of' the strain of his mental disord-
ers, yet at this moment, the bright, intelligent
liht of hais eyes cast an appearance alnaost of

beauty over his countenance. She saw it, and
knew for the first time, that she was capable
of loving him more than the nurse loves the
child entrusted to her care, more than the
coldness of mere duty demanded. This sud-
den awakening of a hundred new voices in her
heart, this precipitate happiness nearly over-
whelmed her senses, and in passionate accents
she assured him of her love. His face grew
brighter and brighter, and they exchanged
vows and pledges of an aflection, which, in
many an hour of bitterness, she had consider-
ed but a mocking farce, the enactment of a
blasphemous lie. Finally, he said to her,-
" Now, Bella, since we have. found more in
each other than we have ever sought for, I
wish to speak to you on a grave subject. Be
assured that I shall speak plain, common
sense to you, for my past follies seem reveal-
ed to me as if by a miracle. That dear old
horse must have been a minister of heaven,
ugly as her form was-for she first got ame a
wife, and then died just at the right moment
to bring me to my senses."
Dear wife,"he continued, when they were
seated side by side, " I hope that a foreboding,
which is strongly impressed uponi me now, is
part of my late distraction; but I fancy that I
dn not to live long. Therefore (it is only a
fancy, dear. wife) it becomes me to use the
few hours still remaining to me to set my
house in order. Oh, that I had a son to in-
herit ad keep alive the old name of Van
Strom I"
" Don't talk that way," answered Bella. " Do
not demoralize yourself by a morbid contem-
plation of death. I am not so weak as to
shiver at the more sounl of that word ; but I
thank heaven that, so far as my husband is
concerned, it has no meaning for me I John,
I have a hope which tells of many happy years
in store for you and me; and who knows but
what, in the mercy o nature's Omnipotent
Master, a time may come in which you will
have to set in order a larger household than
this, which only numbers your poor but loving
wife 1"
She kissed him affectionately, and then said,
archly,-
" What did you say to me ? You had some-
thing practical on your hips, when you launch-
ed off into those dismal fiantasies which I do
not choose to encourage."
His countenance fell, and his thoughts seem-
ed to grow unpleasant, but he replied by ask-
ing the plump question,-
"Bella, no matter how much you love the
now, as you say you do, but did you not marry
me for my money ?"
This was entering upon dangerous ground,
and she quickly summoned all her wits to her
aid; for, knowing very well that here was a
great opportunity, she determined to gain the
day over all the powers of darkness which
disputed her mastery over him; and to lose
no time about it either. Her intuition prompt.
ed her, and she immediately replied:-
"When you came, a stranger, to our door, I
only gratified may ambition by accepting you.
I hope you do not think your good looks cap-
tured mc; do you, dear ?" shte added, laughing,

100

101


GOING AND SON.

and stroking his stubborn hair; "although,
I must confess, you look quite handsome this
morning. But when I first married you, I
certainly took you for your money, please
your conceit !"
John laughed qptright. Mr. Stilletto, so far
the woman has the best of it; only it was not
your intention that she should have a fair
chance.
"Now, hear this," cried John, putting his
arms around her waist, "she acknowledges
herself, the saucy little witch, the very thing
which that scoundrel tells me she is doing her
best to conceal."
" I know the scoundrel you speak of," cried
Bella, fixing her flashing eyes on him, "and I
mean to have my say now !"
" And yet," interrupted John, with sudden-
ly-knit brows, " your own words indorse that
scoundrel's accusation."
"Listen to me, John." said Bella, very ear-
nestly. "Did you marry me for love ?"
John was puzzled.
Well," he answered, " I thought you were
good-looking, had a good figure, and, on the
spur of the moment, I took you. But, of
course, I did not love you as I do now."
" And I," rejoined Bella, dryly, " thought
you were so-so, and rich, and I took you on
the spur of the moment. But. of course, I did
not love you as I do now! We are quits, my
dear!"
"But, Bella, what have been your feelings
since then ? Have you not plotted for rmy
money, and hoped for my death? Have you
not intrigued, and joined others, to take advan-
tage of me ?  Do I not owe your attention
and fidelity to my fortune ? Answer, woman !"
he cried, almost fiercely, " and justify yourself
if you can."
"'Tlhat I will," she answered. " You ask
me whether you owe my love to your money?
I answer, that if love can be purchased with
money, God in heaven nvay also be bought, for
God is Love. Buy a woman, body and soul ;
but you receive your purchase with love, the
holiest attribute, left out; save her from star-
vation-deliver her from torture-take her
soul out of the jaws of destruction, and, al-
though she can thank you with her life, if you
neetl its sacrifice, yet the bestowal of her love
rests with God alone."
Ie made no reply, and she continued, so-
lemnly raising her voice,-
" As regards the charge of intriguing against
you, in league with your sister Josephine and
her lover (don't think I am too dull to compre-
hend the whole of this vile calumny), I ask
you to consider, for a moment, the baseness
of those that accuse ine. You lend an ear to
the scum of humanity, you listen to the ven-
omous slurs of a man, whose soul is a spring
of villainy, and whose very breath is corrup-
tion; but, John Van Strom, I am your wife!
You hope, some happy day, that I may bear
you children, and, when you swore to love and
honor me, you made my name yours, my
honor the honor of your family, of your home.
Name, home, family, yes, even Christianity it-.
eelf, and all our civilization, all our respecta-
bility, are founded upon marriage, and your

wife is the corner-stone of your house. Re.
posing entire faith in her, you preserve your
own dignity and integrity. Let me beg yo,
then, not to heap shame upon yourself, not to
degrade yourself by allowing a greedy vagp.
bond to dispossess me of your heart,-y-vour
heart, John, which is mine, which, to-day , I
have received anew from the merciful Father
of us all, to hold and keep forever!"
She threw herself into his arms, crying like
a child. John Van Strom held her tightly to
his breast, and there was no more question as
to her truth in his mind. He confessed all
he had done that morning, and, she helping
him to comprehend the craftiness of Mr. Still.
letto, he resolved promptly to baffle the plot-
ters against his peace without an hour's delay.
In the meanwhile, as we already know, Mr.
Stilletto had quitted the house in the village,
honored or dishonored by his sojourn and that
of the great philosopher, for the purpose of
watching Simonetta's movements.
. Between the house of John Van Strom and
the village, the contour of the landscape, mark-
ed by bold undulations, was of a somewhat
wild character. Ravines and rocks obstructed
the road, forcing it into curves hard by perilous
descents, and cutting into the hillsides, whose
crumbling walls endangered the safety of the
thoroughfare. It becomes necessary for ums to
pay some attention to a particular point on this
road, where a footpath led over a steep hill,
around the foot of which the road lay in a long
curve.
The slope of this hill had been selected by
the scanty Roman Catholic part of the neigh.
borhmood as a site for a modest little church or
chapel, which, small and unpretending as it
was, had its share of the ornamental and sen-
sual, so peculiar to Rome, in the shape of an
audacious plaster-east caricature of the irre-
pressible Virgin, standing in a niche on the
fagiade next the road.   It was, however, a
pretty little chapel, in a romantic spot, half-
buried in the pines which studded the hill, and
yet not quite shut out from  the view of the
surrounding country.
The day, which had begun so brightly.
changed its mood in the afternoon.   It hed
been unusually warm for December; but now
Heaven began to knit his brows and closed
his golden eye. The winds awoke and began
to chase the multiplying clouds, and a chill was
flt in the air, foretelling heavy weather.
The pines which sentin'eled the lonely ciap-
el shook their heads and rocked about with
wild gestures; but there was a creature of
flesh, benea t them, prostrate before the effigy
of the Virgin, not heeding the warning voices
of the approaching tempest which moaned in
the tree-tops, unconscious of all save her own
misery. On her knees, and praying to the
Holy Mother with the fervor of despair, Simo-
netta Marini long remained perfectly absorbed
by the horrors she - had so lately pas-cd
through. She knew not that she was watch-
ed, but, had she scrutinized one of those som.-
ber groves, she might have seen. with terror,
a pair of vicious eves. whose piercing glane
was riveted on lhen.' After she had uandem'gonme
Heaven onhy knows, what agony of soul, amid

derived, Heaven only knows, what comfort,-
she arose with the energy of one in whoil re-
solution has been born of despair. The thick,
heavy tresses of her raven hair were her only
covering, her simple dress, all torn and Ilut-
tering in the wind, her only shelter, as she de-
scended the hill with hasty steps, and, gaining
the highway, hastened on toward her destina-
tion without a backward glance.
"By Jove," quoth Stilletto, stepping out
from the trees, "she is handsomer than ever.
I am afraid I was a fool to lose my temper,
and her, together! A  man should not get
angry at a woman's treachery. Had I been
wise, 1 would have paid her a great compli-
inent on her smartness, and flattered her a
little, and so I would have saved all."
Thus did Mr. Stilletto reason with-himself,
keeping the object of his watch in view the
while, following her cautiously, and not sur-
prised when. she took the direction toward
Eben Bates's house. " As I thought," he mut-
tered to himself.  "She is going there to get
old Martin Bates to help her mar our whole
affair. One of them, or both, or all three (if'
they can frighten my dear father into joining
tlieii), will put in an appearance at John Van
Strom's house, not many hours hence. Then
will come a great assault on his better nature,
Madam Bella in the heat of the battle. They
will show him what a black devil 1 am, and
what a legion of holy angels surrounds him.
Then comes a scene, Judge Ehen Bates peni-
tent and forgiven, by-John, may be; Bella and
her constituents reinstated in all their lost
power; Siionetta sainted even in this life
having acted the part of the virtuous sinner,
who saves a world of trouble by timely re-
forn; and the drama will close with an affect-
ing tableau of virtue, generally triumphant.
.ohn grinning in the center, Bella weeping on
his neck, that cursed dog, Montant, laughing
in his sleeve, and poor Stilletto left out in the
cold,.with John's latest will more lately re-
voked, an i August Muller clearly showing by
all philosophy that the miscarrying of our
plans is entirely my fault, to comfort him.
But wait, adies and gentlemen, I'm not dead
yet 1" From the crest of a hill he gained a
view of the judge's house, and saw the Italian
girl, like a flitting shadow in the distance,
open the gate, and hurry up the path to the
door.
"Now, what shall I do?" said he. "Juwe
Eben, even if he is persuaded to side with
them, can not harm me very much. No: the
real danger lies with John, and to him I'll
hasten, and prepare him for the attack."
As he crossed the fields on his way thither,
it blew so hard that he could scarce keep his
feet, frail little monster that lie was. He
passed many hamlets, and saw the horses
brought in from their work with their manes
and tails streaming in the wind. Although it
was not raining yet, such a blast filled the air
that the anxious faces at the windows told him
the inmates feared for the safety of their
roofs. It was growing dark fast, though the
afternoon wvas still young, and the mad clouds
seemed ready to discharge themselves but for
the violence of the hurricane, which chased

the very rain so fast along, that not a drop
reached the ground.
"This will be a queer night," thought Stil-
letto, making laborious headway, while the
favorite cloak he wore on his shoulders, made
frantic efforts to escape from  him and elope
with its lover, the wind. "A queer night,"
he repeated, and the awful roar that greeted
him from the woods as he approached the
litto chapel, which he had to pass, on his way
to Van Strom's house, seemed to chant an
angry " Amen" to the sentiment.
" What is this ? Were it not for the color
of the horse, I should say, that here comes Joln
Van Strom, driving to the village in his light
wagoni Strange that lie should be out; but,
although his yellow mare must have turned
gray or died, this is certainly lie."
le was not in error. Apparently in danger
of being upset by the violence of the wind,
John was driving along, and being hailed by
Stilletto. stopped his horse.
"Hlas Bella turned gray'?" asked Stilletto,
with a sneer.
" She (died this monuing," : answered John,
unueoncernedly, which astonished the Italian
still more, and he wondered at the change ap-
pareut in John's whole manner. 11lis gloomy
and awkward eccentricity seemed to have left
him, and there' was a wide-awake intelligence
in the glance that met Stilletto's little eyes.
Where are you going," asked the latter,
imiipudently.
To the village to see that lawyer. I want
Bates to be prosecuted at once, for what 1
begun this morning must be finished, cut and
dried, before the end of the week !" Ife spoke
with suavity, and seemed to consider this frank
explanation a duty to a friend.
But it blows hard enough to make one
ride on the clouds," cried Stilletto.
" You should know that what I do, I do
quickly " answered Van Strom, looking to his
horse, who would not stand quietly in that
wind.    Will you jump in ?"
How I would like to go; but t dhare not
leave that girl unobserved," thought Stilletto.
No, I thank you," lie answered, aloud,'but be
careful ; you are alone, and it will be dark
when you return!"
" I have your dirk with me, which you left
at my house seia  days ago," answered Van
Strom.
" 1lave you?"   cried  Stilletto, quickly.
Then I wish you would give it to me ! I will
make you a present of this one."  Here he
produced Simonetta's handsome weapon from
his breast pocket. "The one you have, was
given to me by my dear mother, and I hate to
part with it."
As there seemed nothing unreasonable in
tl is, John exchanged weapons.
"Does your dear wife know that you are
armed?" asked he, carelessly.
"she handed me the dirk herself," was the
answer.
With some trivial remark, they parted, John
letting his horse have his own way, and saying
m hfirsef:-
"It wvas a good idea to treat him politely.
lie has nao stuspicion that I am going to the

102

FELONY.

103


GOING AND SON.

village to make a legal and thoroughly com-
petent instrument that will revoke my will of
this morning. I am glad he did not come
along, for I would have been obliged to get
rid of him some way, or else to postpone what
should not be postponed."
Stilletto turned back and entered a little
country hotel which lay on the road to Judge
Bates's house. Men and women were sitting
around the stove, and talking about the fearful
gale that was blowing. Being not very far
from the sea-coast, there were many relatives
of mariners and fishermen among the people
who discussed the danger of such a hurri-
cane, "and blowing right in shore, too," with
troubled looks, and hearts heavy with fear for
some friend or relative.
Stilletto asked for something to eat, but
when it was served, his under-lip, that great
indicator of his mental condition, quivered so
that he could hardly perform the task. After
swallowing a few morsels, he again set forth
toward  the village.  Near that part of
the road before described, where the little
chapel crowned the hill among the trees, lie
paused on noticing that a streamlet in a ravine
crossed the road, being bridged over by a few
timbers rudely laid, and planks placed cross-
wise over them. Ie stooped to examine this
sort of bridge.
" It is easy to tear up one of these planks,"
he muttered, " and if some one should do so,
and if some one should drive by in a dark
night, the horse would probably step into the
hole and break his legs."  After having as-
sured himself of this fact, he went on in his
soliloquy:-
" So far, John is evidently all right."  He
-little thought that the interference of Martin
Bates and the revengeful accusations of the
Italian girl were no longer -necessary to undo
his intrigues, which seemed to him so wonder-
fully successful.
A clatter of hoofs reached his ears, and he
was delighted to recognize old Judge Bates
riding along at a rapid pace, little heeding the
wild storm.
" Hold, father I" cried Stilletto, jumping in
front of the horse's head, and seizing the
bridle. "Dismount, for I have to confer with
you."
The horse shied at the flapping coat worn
by the little man, and Judge Bates came near
losing his seat. This did not improve his tem-
per, and although, after a moment's hesitation,
lie did alight, he accosted Stilletto furiously,-
" How dare you stop me on the highway,
you high-handed bandit ! Had I fallen from
my horse, I would have had you arrested for
waylaying-"
" Stop,"ecried Stilletto. "Don't cry shame on
criminals, for you are going to add another
crime to your list before many days are over !
I want to see you very particularly, and how
lucky it is that I meet you by chance. You
have been at the village to see Van Strom's
great lawyer, August Muller, trying to stave
off the suit which is pending against you for
raising money under false pretences, to wit,"
he added deliberately, " pretending to a cap-
italist that a mortgage on which he advanced

you money, was a first lien upon your proper.
ty, while, in reality another mortgage on the
same property was in existence. Am I
right ?"
"You   barefaced, brutal scoundrel!  For
you only did I commit this crime. and from
what I learned to-day, I shall probably have to
suffer for it."
"Look here, father.  If you could make
John Van Strom die, by accident, and could
make me trustee of his estates, having power
to stop or compromise that suit against you-.
would you, to save your honor, make a false
oath ?"
The handsome face of the old judge was flush.
ed with riding in the wind; but the blush that
now suffused it seemed as'if all the blood
in his  body had mounted to     his head.
What lie then and there spoke, confront-
ing his fiendish son while the storm was rag.
ing around them, while the wild voices of
nature drowned their own, and the blast chill.
ed them to the marrow,-what he said and
then revoked,-what he swore and then gain-
said,-how lie struggled and then succumbed,
-all this must be left to oblivion, even as each
word that escaped their lips was snatched
away by the fury of the winds and hurled
away to empty space. But, on their parting
these words were heard,-
" I will do it because I must, but heaven
grant that you get no opportunity !"
The judge did not know that it was growing
darker very fast, that it was beginning to rain,-
or that a night was coming when the elements
were to exhibit their foulest behavior. le
was only conscious of a tumult in his breast
and a darkness in his soul which was never
to know the dawn of day again.-      ."
His horse took him home on a run, more
anxious to reach it than his master, and the
latter was somewhat relieved to find that Mar-
tin had gone out, leaving word that, if it
should rain hard he might not return that
night. They also told him that a strange wo-
man had called for his brother, and that they
had left the house together. Eben scarcely
heard the latter intelligence, but pleading ex-
haustion lie retired early, though lie knew he
could not sleep; though he knew that he
was doomed to watch this dreadful night,
and to wait for morning, without closing an
eye. And so Judge Eben Bates waited.
CHAPTER X.
THE MURDER.
" Yonder's foul murder done."
OTELLO.
"I WILL move to town next week,".said
Mrs. Van Strom to herself, when John had left
her to have his horse (alas no more the gentle
and elover Bella) put to the carriage. " I will
certainly move to town," she repeated, seated
by the fire and enjoying the warmth of its
cheerful blaze. Had she not reason to he
happy? More than happy--she was grateful
to heaven for having given her a husband sihe

could love, for one she could only pity. Now,a
since John had been reborn to reason by what I
might almost be called a miracle of mental de-i
velopment, now, since in her own heart also a
new day had dawned, now she realized their
immense difference between loyalty and love.,
Loyalty, the noblest issue of the mind-love,
the very life of the heart.
Oh, what a Lappy day had she spent! John
had been affectionate and reasonable. Was not
that enough to make a wife love her husband?
How niany women in the wide world could
say this moment: " My husband has been ami-
able and reasonable all day ?" And now John
had gone to undo with one stroke of his pen,I
all the machinations of her enemies, and the
great change that she had hoped and prayed
for, had come to pass. Josephine was saved,
restored to her lawful inheritance, and a future
spread before her which was almost too glori-
ous to be believed entirely.            .
" I will move to town next week I" said Bel-
~a, for the third time, " I can stand a good deal
of country life, but when the wind blows so
hard as to shake the marrow of my bones, I
would rather be excused from living right on
the top of the highest hill in the country.
Doesn't it seem as if some calamity was piling
up over our heads ? These fearful noises,
this appalling commotion outdoors as if heaven
and earth were being hurled at each other to
form a new chaos ! I wish John had come
back again."-
She listened. The dismal howl in the flue
and the confused roar of the storm without,
alone gave answer to her listening ear.  A
hundred times she imagined that she heard
wheels. It was but the battering of the rain
against the windows, or a fresh blast gaining
strength in the distance to sweep down upon
the house with such a mad violence, that the
very earth seemed to tremble with the exer-
tion of holding the foundations firmly in their
places, to save the tottering masonry. Bella
grew restless, then fearful, and finally, appall-
ed by nameless apprehension. Perhaps the
blessedness of to-day was too much for fate to
allot without admixture; perhaps the ' cruel
gods would wrest from her this very night
what they had given with mocking kindness ;
perhaps heaven had vouchsafed to John one ray
of its glorious light, only, as it were, on his
death--day-perhaps Eternal Justice would en-
hance her punishment for a giddy deed, by
showing her a happy change in that which
she was to lose, that her loss might be the
heavier.
Her nervous system, usually so firm and
so impassive, gave way to an excitement she
had not known before. Her discomfort as-
sumed imaginary shapes. Was John dead?
Was his bodydistorted by the pangs of death,
lying somewhere out in the black night, feel-_
ing no longer the storm which rages round
him, hearing no more the voice of the ele-
ments? " John, John I" she cried aloud, jump-
ing up, and clasping her hands. "John where
are you? Speak to me ! Give me some token
of your presence, speak bunt one word!" But
as she listened, the eonly reply was a hollowv
moan of desolation, which arose far, far away,

and swelled as it came nearer into a fearful
howl, striking the house as if it would sweep
it from the face of the earth.
But what is this? She feels that some one
is approaching the house. The bell rings, she
rushes to the chamber door, delighted, " John,
John, where have you been so late, husband ?"
escapes from her lips before she can see who
is at the dooi-. There is no response; but the
old butler comes half-way up the stairs with
a face as long as a barometer, indicating foul
weather, and says:-
" Mr. Bates, ma'am, Mr. Martin Bates, and a
young woman with him, ma'am, as I doesn't
know, and doesn't want to know, if you please,
ma'am."
Bella immediately descended to the parlor,
and there found Martin Bates, and a woman
dressed in black. Too nervous to pay much
attention to what they had to say, she hardly
noticed the careful recital of Martin Bates,
occasionally interrupted by the vehement
ejaculations of the Italian girl; for ehe knows
all; knows of Stilletto's artifices-Muller's
nice calculations,--John's 'temporary halluci-
nations.
" I do not desire to hear my husband's weak-
ness enlarged upon by those that are not friend-
ly to him," she said proudly. "What you have
told me I know, for I am the wife of John
Van Strom."
Martin Bates sits at the table where the
lamp burns, fretfully, as if the storm had
frightened its strength and vigor away. The
face of the old man is more haggard and death-
like than ever, and if you look closely at his
dull eyes, it seems as if death had east a fore-
running shadow over his soul, and his features
are shrunken and corpse-like. The Italian
woman sits in the shade, and though her face
can not be seen, the very air around her trem-
bles with her suppressed passion, and her
voice, when she speaks resembles the sub-
dued voice of a charmed fury.
" As usual, my kindness is returned by in-
gratitude," said Martin Bates. " I have dis-
closed the plans of a devil to you, showed you
the brutality of a hog and the viciousness of
a monster, yet you shut your ears to the
counsel of a friend."
" My ears, old man," cried Bella, " are wide
open to hear news of my husband 1 I have
watched for him until I am nearly distracted.
With him. I fear neither devil, beast, nor mon-
ster. If he die, let the whole world surrender
to Satan, I don't care '"
" He will murder him!1" hissed Simonetta.
- Bella turned fiercely upon her. "Do you
wish to call forth curses on your lips, with
your foul prophecies? Haven't you known all
this and held your tongue until he cast you off
-until he ceased to keep you as his dear mis-
tress, and most likely, willing accomplice.
Your vengeance, not your honor speaks, young
woman; and had I known all I now know,
John would not be out to-night. I have been
listening for the sound of his wheels while
you were telling your story, and did not gather
more than half of what you said; but new, all
at once, I see the whole danger. He has gone
out alone into the night to save a miserable

104

FELONY.

105

9


FORTUNE.                      107

fortune. God knows I would willingly pay
my last dollar to see him home again in
safety."
The door opened, and Josephine appeared,
Bella rushing toward her and threw her arms
around her. "Josie," she cried, "save me
from these people!l"
"Why, Bella, you must be seriously sick,"
answered the widow. "I never thought you
could be agitated like this. What ! my strong,
self-reliant sister carrying on like a child !
What is the matter?"
"I am worried about John," Bella whispered
in her ear.
" How absurd," answered Josephine. " It
is only just dark. and he can not get back so
quickly.  Besides." she added, with a calm
smile, " Ernest is returning with him, you
know."
Her soothing, confident tone did not fail to
have an effect on Bella. With a manner no
one would have thought her capable of she
turned to Martin Bates, and said:-
"1Mr. Bates, the night is more than danger-
ous for travelers. 'T'hink not that because I
spoke hastily, I have forgotten the duties of
hostess or the teachings of hospitality, and let
me entreat you and that lady to spend the
night here."
Another ring of the bell prevented Martin's
reply. Bella flew to the door and there
stood still as if turned to marble. -White as a
sheet, site held her hands to her heart ; some-
thing, God only knows what, had given her a
shock. Josephine rushed to the hall door.
Bella heard a smothered bustle, confused, but
hushed voices reached her car. The front
door was opened wide-they were carrying
something in. A word-a whispered word-
was spoken ; but had it been breathed by a
zephyr in the midst of the Great Desert, her
ears would have caught it. With a low moan,
she sank senseless into the arms of Martin
Bates, who bent over her with a face like
living death.
*    *    *    *    *    *    *
John had finished his business. The will
was "1 Made. signed, sealed, and delivered "
safely, and the friends were recoiled. John
and our hero climbed into the light wagon to
drive back to the house, which Montant did
not intend to leave again until he should take
his bride with him.   Premature darkness
covered the road and made it almost undis-
tinguishable.
I wish we were at home," said John.
"So do others besides us," answered our
hero. " The horse can hardly face this ter-
rible gale. In such a night, folks should stay
at home in mere gratitude for having a home
to stay in."
 In such a night," said John, "the angel
of death rides upon the clouds, and frightens
away the angel of life."
" In such a night," continued our hero, to
kill time, "love seeks his mate and people
bless the warmth of their hearths and hearts
which keeps out the blast."
"In such a night." said John, "human mis-
ery cries out to heaven and despairs at the
angry answerss"

" And religion bends the knee and trembles
before the power of God."
"In such a night " continued John, in a hol-
low voice, " heaven and hell sweep close to the
earth."_
"And Nemesis watches for victims."
"It is easy for a man to die in his bed when
God calls him away, but I would not like to
die when all is dreary, and bleak, and deso.
late around its 1"
"Iold!" cried our hero. "Is that a man by
the roadside ?"
Was it a specter that danced across the
road, making the horse stop and snort with
fear, or was it a weird shadow of the night
which had flitted by under the trees. Surely
a hundred spirits seemed hovering about ; but
this was a tuan.
"Ite is gone !" said our hero, who had
drawn a dagger which John had given hin,
le being the better man to carry it, "but I am
certain it was a man standmg close to the
wheel as we passed. When the gale rips up
the ground it sounds as if there were steps he.
hind us and beside us; but my eyes are good
and I will trust them, even when I know that
my other senses are deceived."
4" There are voices in the air," cried Van
Strom. "Perhaps they warn us of danger. I
wish we were home."
Ernest Montant seconde the wish in his in-
most heart but they had( slow work before
them. The horse struggled bravely against
the piercing rain and the terriffie gale; but on
the slippery, undulating ground, little niore
than a brisk walk could le obtained. Stud-
donly, they both felt a shock, and, before their
eyes, the horse seemed to sink into the ground.
A strange and supernatural cry chilled their
hearts, and made their hair stand on end.
"Great God!" cried John, "this is an evil
spirit's voice."
"No !"cried Montant, jumpingto the groumel,
"I have heard that cry before. It comes from
our poor horse. I am afraid he has broken a
leo-"
They examined the struggling brute, and
found that his leg was indeed broken. as our
hero had surmised. le had stepped into a
hole where t plank had been removed fromt
the little bridge we know of, and there had
snapped the bone of his leg.
" Here is foul play," cried Montant. "We
do not know who may be at our backs. Let's
leave the horse and trudge on. We are not far
from hiote 1"
Look 1" said John, pointing tap the hill by
the roadside. " Isn't there a light in the old
chapel?"
The reader knows the spot where this acci-
dent had befallen them. Right above them
stood the Roman Catholic chapel, and by one
of those strange phenomena of a stormy night,
it seemed indeed as if a light shone from it.
" It does seem so," answered Montant, pos-
sessed with a fear, a nameless dread that he
could neither account for nor shake off. " Hurry
ip-come on. If this means murder, I shall
sell my hife deamrly I"
" Lord have mercy on my soul!"
Wild was the cry which accompanied these

words, the last that John Van Strom uttered'
in this world, a cry that burst from a heart
laid open by a foul blow. He fell-a man was
struggling with our hero over his body, the
assassin broke away almost immediately and
lied through the woods as if already pursued
by the avenger.   The leaves start from the
ground and flee after him-lie hears pursuing
steps in their rustling. The shadows of the
night crowd around him and lay a hundred
traps for his perdition; but he clears them
and rushes away. On, away, with the foul
deed on his heart, with the stamp of murderer
on every line of his face wherever he goes,
with the ghost of the murdered man linked to
him for all eternity. Flying with him-sinking
to the ground with him when he falls from
slicer exhaustion-talking with huti when he
soliloquizes-dining byhis side when lie eats-
laughing at him when lie forces a smile, but
not sleeping when he sleeps. No, no, never
sleeping to give the murderer rest until Eter-
nal Justice has been satisfied.
The furiously raging storm sends the fallen
leaves in all directions from the spot where
the corpse lies to proclaim the deed of horror.
The trees hear of it and shake their heads,moan-
ing aloud, so that the few remaining birds start

from their sleep with horrid, monstrous night-
mares. A ghost sweeps. through the house
where Bella is watching, and in its presence
the flame of the lantern over the gate expires
with a ghostly grimace like the last quiver of
a criminal on the gallows.
The wind tolls the bell on the little Roman
Catholic chapel as if a shadowy congregation
were summoned by that funeral knell to sing
the poor soul to rest, and strange sounds come
forth from its gothic interior. Perhaps, far oil'
at the Priory, the wind is tolling that old
monkish bell at this same moment in honor of
the last Van Stronh, as it did at the death of
his father.
From the thousand dumb witnesses the
news ascends to the skies, and the moon parts
the ragged clouds to see if it can be true, and
looking down suddenly coats the little chapel
with silver. There in the middle of the road,
right near the house of God, half buried al-
ready in the mud of mother earth, which will
soon claim his body wholly,-there within his
face all white and limbs distorted, lies the holy
of poor John Van Strom, each lineament softly
visited by the tender rays of the moon, with
Stilletto's dagger in his heart and its hilt glit-
tering in the silvery light.

BOOK IV -FO T U NE-
CHAPTER I                     the hearts of the jury, and win a ease despite
the judge ,on the bench, justice or equity.
CtIRISTMAS.                   On Christmas-eve, a quiet, solemn full of snow
filled the air, and the reign of darkness was dis-
"This was my lord's last hope, now all are fled,  pitted by the brightness of the flakes, as if
Save only the gods."                     mysterious light were descending in shreds to
 TIMONOFoATHENS. 'the earth, giving a holy luster to the white
"GRAVsS &amp; PAnADIsE" had been the style robe with which the heavens were decking her
of that great law-firm years ago, and their old for the great holiday.
clients still spoke of them as " Graves &amp; Para-  Nine o'clock had sounded from all the town
dise ;" but with the increase of business the  clocks, and still we find Mr. Paradise in his
name of the firm had lengthened until the time  private room, in Wall 'Street, bending over
we pay them    a visit at their office, it read  documents and books, and, in spite of Christ-
"Graves. Paradise, Stubbs, O'Brien, &amp; Cianini."  tns-eve, studying out the intricacies of a great
No wonder the old clients adhered to the short case, apparently forgotten by friends andl ftm-
and convenient " Graves &amp; Paradis !" Messrs. ily on this great occasion of universal rejoicing.
Stubbs, O'Brien, and Cianini, were gentlemen  T'he tall book-cases along the walls look dark,
with bald heads and stentorian voices, whose  for the room is large, and the two students'
pomposity somewhat exceeded their wisdom ; lamps on his vriting table only illumine the
but they performed the bulk of the labor, papers immediately before himi. The lawyer's
while Messrs. Graves &amp; Paradise, only attend-  face wears a peculiarly sinister expression.
ed to cases of great importance. It was a tri- Papers tied up in hundles, and papers lying
tumph presaging success for any client to obtain  loose. papers written and pipers printed tupoi,
the personal attention of Mr. Paradise, and a  papers of all sorts amd sizes and shapes, stir-
poor mortal in the labyrinth of the law might round him in an apparently confusing chaos,
well allow the hunchback's insults could he  Heaven should he kind to him, who has to ut-
but enlist in his cause the falcon eyes of that ravel all their intricacies, yet there is one word,
mind, the serene power of that intellect and  plain and bold. heading each orie of them-
the taight of that eloquence, which could sway i that word is "  Ilobgoblin."

GOING AND SON.


GOING AND SON.

On his right, "IHobgoblin " awaits him, on
his left, "Hobgoblin" asks his attention; be-
hind his back, "Hobgoblin " stands out in im-
pudent relief. " Hobgoblin " confronts him in
a hundred different handwritings; it meets his
eye at every turn, and flows mockingly from
his pen when he commences to write. His
sharp, sallow face, his piercing black eyes, his
homely mouth with the bitter sneer set -in
withered wrinkles, show plainly in the circle
of light cast by the lamps, while darkness
crowds around him, and ugly shadows dance
attendance on him, and sit upon his crooked
back. Thus, like a master goblin banished
from the Christian world, and concocting some
horrid scheme of mischief, the great lawyer
spends Christmas-eve working up the defence
in the great suit of Going versus The Trust-
ees of the Hobgoblin Mining and Manufactur-
ing Company.
A knock at the door. Mr. Paradise takes no
notice of it. Another, and a third, with the
same result, and the visitor, perhaps, accus-
tomed to the lawyer's manner, considers the
notice sufficient and enters.
"What do you want ?" asked Mr. Paradise,
gruffly. le has not turned his face toward
the intruder; but knows that it is old Smiles,
the most faithful and the most dismal of ser-
vants. Smiles, in the days of his youth, thought
he would be a lawyer, and to that end com-
menced reading law and copying law. Upon
abandoning the reading as hopeless, he had
"coped law these thirty years, sir," a state-
ment which unfailingly drew tears from him
whenever he told any one his story; but finally'
he had changed his condition of semi-starva-
tion and the profession of law-copyist, to be-
come special attendant, door-keeper, messenger,
and factotum of a lower grade, in the office
of Messrs. Graves &amp; Paradise. Thus, from
the funeral of his ambition, though it left him
in perpetual melancholy, arose an humble post
of ease, good pay, and comfort, in his old
age.
"I crave your pardon, sir," said the sepul-
chral voice of Mr.Smiles, from the dark depths
of the room ; "a lady wants to see you. She
is veiled in black, she has come through the
storm in the night, alone and unprotected. It
is a case of-of-in fact it must be a case of
murder or crim-"
Mr. Paradise would have interrupted him
sooner, but he was for once, very much
astonished at the announcement, and the ejac-
ulation which now escaped him, was instantly
followed by another still more significant of
amazement, when the lady, "veiled in black,"
having followed upon the heels of Mr. Smiles,
stepped into the circle of light which fell from
the students' lamps in the center of the room,
and presented to the astonished gaze of the
hunchback, a graceful figure robed in heavy
mourning.
"You may well be surprised at seeing me
here at this most singular time and hour," she
said, in a rich, deep voice, which trembled
with agitation, "but I drove to your house in
Washington Square, and was there advised to
look for you here. I, must see youm at once
upon business of such importance as no earthly

interest can divert meI" and she took off her
veil.
" Mrs. Van Strom !" cried Paradise, quite be-
wildered, "you are the last person I expected
peeled out of this black husk. Smiles, leave
us."
' And bid the carriage wait-two hours if
necessary," added Josephine Van Strom. "I
will pay the man well for it."
"What in the world gives me this honor,
Madam ?" asked the lawyer, not very respect-
fully. "You have hunted me out in rather an
inopportune moment, and I have not the time
to gratify women's whims on Christmas-eve,
which should be a time of respite even for
lawyers I"
"Mr. Paradise, I am past being offended at
your insults, past heeding any one's anger,"
said Josephine, having sunk into a chair near
him. "I have come to you on a matter of life
and death, and though it be Christmas-eve, I
want your services instantly, for you, I believe
to be the fittest person to help me. Here is
your retainder or retaining fee, whichever you
call it."
Mr. Paradise glanced at the thousand dol-
lar bill she had placed upon his table, and then
at her. In her face, beautiful as ever, he saw
the traces of such suffering, that he relented ;
and settling lumself for a patient and most
thorough hearing of the case, he returned her
the bill, saying, with a touch of respect in his
voice,--
" Take it back for the present. We will first
hear what you have to say."
She received the note again, half uncon-
sciously, and crumpled it up nervously in her
soft, white hand; but before she spoke again,
the color rose to her cheek, and her eyes were
downcast.
"Mr. Paradise," she commenced, timidly,
yet determined to lose no time in entering
upon the subject, " I have laid myself open to
your censure; nay, placed myself at the mercy
of your ridicule, in coming to you alone at
might, and in this strange manner; but there is
one in danger, who, perhaps, has no other
friend than me."
"Fiend/" repeated Mr. Paradise, with an
involuntary relapse into sarcasm. "I assume
that this friend is of the masculine gender, and
wonder whether your legal adviser may be in-
formed of the nature of your attachment. Is
it platonic ?"
" Ie is a friend," answered Josephine, with
that gentle majesty so peculiar to some women,
" to whom I am betrothed."
There was something in that simple answer
which  touched   the  humpback, and    he
said:-
" Well, well, don't be offended, but let me
know the trouble.'"
" Ile is accused of murder." She stopped as
if the word choked her. The lawyer gave her
time to continue.
." He is ;n prison at this moment," continued
Josephine, hoarsely, "and, as I verily believe,
I am his only friend on'this continent, the duty
of saving him devolves upon me. You," she
added, with a sudden change of tOne,
" are the ma~n I have selected to defend him.

You, I believe to have more ability than any afford you consolation for the enmity of the
one else, and upon you I call in the name of whole world."
God and Justice, to rescue the innocent 1"  "I know what you mean," said the hunch-
- er eyes more eloquent than her tongue back with intense bitterness.  You think
loo ed beseechingly into his, and the plaintive, there might be a woman I could love, who
entreating gesture with which she half arose would love me, hey ?"
from her chair seconded the appeal which her  " The man who can command the judgment
soul made to his, in a manner that was not lost of twelve honest men can easily win a woman's
even upon Mr. Paradise. She saw her answer heart. You are not homely when you address
in the compassion which took the hideousness a jury, Mr. Paradise."
from his face; she read encouragement in the  With a shrug of his shoulder he turned his
luster of his dark eyes as their looks met, and back upon her and began in earnest to ex-
she inwardly thanked heaven that she had amine the documents which she had brought
discovered the heart of that deformed body, so him. She could catch -a glimpse of his fhee
that more than professional pride would in- from which all trace of his recent emotion had
spire the defender of her lover.          fled, leaving the sneer and wrinkles which
Paradise, like many men habitually cynical, proved they were permanent beautifiers.
disliked to exhibit any tender emotion, and  She stared into the flames which danced ilp
although the woman's intuition saw that he from the glowimg coal in fantastic shapes; she
was moved, his manner did not betray it.  saw the coal wast away into pale ashes and
" rive me the papers relating to the case," fall a disorganized mass. She heaped on fresh
he said, in a business-like tone. " I see you  fuel with her own  hands ,but the lawyer did
have a bundle of documents there which un- not notice the noise. Frequent glances showed
doubtedly contain the affidavits upon which her how deeply he was interested in her case.
the warrant for his arrest was issued. Is it At times he would think a moment, make a
so ?"                                     note with his pencil and fall to reading again.
" Yes, sir, here they are."             Anxious as she was to hear an opinion, a do-
" Then be kind enough to sit by the fire, cision, her good sense made her hold her
there, and don't speak a word until I have tongue with patience. Sometimes, when he
looked in to the case."                   frowned, she fearingly longed to ask him what
Turning around she saw what she had not danger had presented itself to his mind, and
before noticed, a bright, pleasant fire roaring again, when he, by a slight nod of his head,
away in a grate near the attorney's table,' signified his satisfaction, she could have fallen
and moved toward it as she had been bid.  on his neck and kissed him for the encourage-
" What a Christmas I" she murmured, sadly. ment. lie seemed totally oblivious of her pres-
lie heard the words and looking up, said in a ence, but she saw how he was scanning every
voice of sardonic bitterness:-            portion of the evidence against her lover and
" This is a sample of the only Christmas I she forgave him, even blessed him for it.
ever knew!i The world calls me a cynic, and Blessed him from the bottom of her heart, and
an ill-tempered monster ; and what else could prayed for him, her comfort in this hour of
have been expected?  Born into this world  need, that God would remember his friendship
where a fair exterior successfully hides in. for her and bless him  with contentment.
terior foulness, what excellence, what beauty  "Contentment," she thought. "If I were a
of-mind or soul could find appreciation under man and had his giant mind, I would not ex-
this lump of deformity, this shapeless shape, change it for the charms of an Adonis, and
this masterpiece of hideousness, this offense to my songs of love to women should be more
every sense of beauty, this monstrous mistake powerful than the music of Orpheus."
of nature, this disgusting, appalling creation  And as she once more gazed into the orange
of a wrathful hour in heaven I"           depths of the fire, she thought of the inestimna-
Josephine was speechless with surprise. ble happiness which gladdens the earth -this
She had known the hunchback for years, with- wonderful night, and of the untold misery of
out ever hearing but one pathetic speech from those -passing these hours harassed by the
him, and that was addressed to a jury. Just pangs of sickness or poverty. She had jour-
as on that occasion, his eyes now shone with  neyed from Massachusetts that day, she had
a luster which shed a glow of beauty over his traversed the endless snow-fields in the country,
face, and his features inspired by the fervor of had seen the sun take a golden farewell of the
his powerful mind lost their repulsiveness.  country homes, where happiness awaited old
" It is very well," continued the hunchback, and young, and her thoughts flew to a prison,
with less vehemence, "for other people to call within whose desolate walls there was incar-
me hard-hearted, stoical, and malicious ; but I cerated the one being on earth whom she loved
havenever known a sympathy above that con- and adored. Many agonized tears fell from
temptible way of hinting, ' I am better than her eyes as she thought of him, without whose
thou,' called pity, no not since I was born. I memory she treasured no thought, without
have had to fight my own way over all obsta- whose image her heart was empty and des-
eles with this detestable load of homeliness to paring, and without whose love her life was
back me, and as you see me this Christmas- utter death.
eve; alone, and without a tie to call me to my  But she summoned up courage as she re-
home, thus have I spent every day of my exist- flected that she need not despair. So surely as
fence"           -1God lived her lover would be saved: for to
a"But, I think," replied JTosephin, warmly, her mind a doubt of his innocence was a bias-
a"that you could have found one creature to phemous doubt of God's integrity.

109

108

FORTUNE.


GOING AND SON.

Visions of the misery on earth, of dingy
rooms, haggard faces, sickness, and death, and
the appalling anguish of mothers who can not
appease the plaintive cry of childhood for bread
even this hallowed night ;-poverty in all its
horrible shapes crowding the streets and curs-
ing the illumined palaces of the rich with
hungry covetous glaring at the bright win-
dows.
There came to her a vision of sin; of women
dressed in silk, with wanton faces painted into
a similitude of freshness. She thought of the
hearts heavy, on such a night, with the loss
of innocence ; of the millions of lonely tears
which wash away the gaudy paint, and of the
terrible remorse which cones all too late,-so
late that it has to seek solitude to escape ridi-
cule in that demi-monde which has east away
the better half of life and soul. And the eyes
of her mind penetrated prison walls and watch-
ed the agony of crime detected, and heartily
she pitied every wretched prisoner for being
unable to "trust in God an'l fear nothing," as
her lover could.
And as the lawyer still was reading and
making notes, her own life passed before her;
the Christmas night of her childhood, when
every pulsation of her youthful heart told only
of joy and pleasure; a vision of Christmas
trees and candles, neither brighter nor more
beautiful than the happy faces which crowded
around ; remembrances of her solemn happi-
ness, when, on this great festival of all ('iris-
tendom, she first pledged her troth to her ius-
band, and the holy exaltation which tilled her
maiden heart, as she bound herself to be a
wife according to the teaeings of that Christ
whose nativity was then celebrated. Then she
thought of the joyous day when her child
crowed in her arms, and the world and life
seemed to her one endless blessing.
The fire was smoldering away into ashes,
anl, as the last glow expired on the ernbling
heaps, she thought of her husband, of her
child, long buriedr--ashes to ashes ; and of
herself, left a lonely widow, with naught but
two graves in her heart until new life came to
her from the mercy of God-new life, new
love; and, though she was sad this night, faith
in God made harmony between her sweet and
bitter thoughts.
As the ragged and black and broken surface
of this polluted earth is often made clean and
smooth aid beautiful by old Winter's festive
white robs, so the holy spirit of Christmas
descended-upon her bruised and wounded soul
and she prayed fervently that " Peace on earth
and good will toward men" might be realized
as fully as -"Glory to God in the Ilighest."
She lost herself in what might be called a
trance of devotion, which is not often experi-
eneed in our churches. Iler surroundings melt-
ed away, the dingy room expanded to a temple
of worship, and her immortal soul, unfettered,
brought sacrifice of prayer and thanksgiving
to the Father above. In her ears a chorus of
angels chanted a Christmas carol; with the
swelling of the joyful music she felt that some-
tiring united hrer heart with a countless nurm-
ber of other hearts, lifted rrp to the Divine
sourrce of all good irr adoration, and delicIously

intoxicating to her devout soul was the exult-
ation of being at this moment one step nearer
heaven. A sharp though calm voice broke in
upon her ecstasy and brought her to herself.
"I am done," said the lawyer. She did not
immediately answer. When he approached
her he found her weeping.
" Leave your tears at home, when you come
on such serious business as this," said Mr. Par.
adise, coldly. She came to her senses at once,
and, taking a seat at the table, showed him a
resolute face, though full of intense anxiety.
"Mrs. Van Strom," said he, "this is a very
serious case. His life is in danger."
He was startled by the expression of her
face. Not a vestige of color was there; -but,
through her eyes, he could look in and see the
wound she had received by the sudden thrust
of those words.
"But then," she gasped, " can you, you think
for a moment that-Oh, God-no I"
"No,"he answered, promptly. "I do not for
a moment think that he is guilty. The evidence
is cooked uip by some great master of cunning,
though, and unless we can find more flaws in
it thun I can discern at present, we hardly have
a case!"
" But, merciful IHeavens ! how can he be in
danger while he is innocent?"
" We will save our time for business," he
answered, "and leave out philosophical puz-
zles. This master rind. Do you know who
is its happy owner?  Is it the little Italian,
Stilletto; whose afidavit fills up so completely
this prettily-arranged testimony?  It is, hey?
I can see by your angry face, at the very sound
of his name,'that I am right. Now, be a sen-
silble girl, and tell ncm all you know of this fel-
low, since he honored your part of the coun-
try with his presence. I know a good deal
:.about him already, from his connection with
the Hlobgolin company, and this knowledge
may help is considerably. Proceed."
nis unpassionate, practical manner helped
her to gather the powers of her nemoiy, while
the terrible danger, which seemed to threaten,
made her calm   and concise in her account.
She told hirmabout Stilletto's visits to John
Van Strom, how he had stolen into his good
graces, and had finally prevailed upon him to
make a will, appointing him and Muller exe-
cutors. how DBella had brought John back to
his senses, so that, on the day of the murder,
he had gone to the village, determined to undo
the intriguers, and had succeeded in complet-
ing a document, in which ie divided his for-
tune equally between ,Bella and herself, and
reappointed Ernest Montant to be executor.
"Hold   on, there !" interrupted  Paradise.
" Stilletto did not know that this last testa-
ment, which upset his intrigues, had just been
consummated at the time of the murder ?"
" lie could not have known it."
The lawyer once more referred to the docu-
ments. " I see here that the strongest afmida-
vit is that of Antonio Stilletto. He says that
he heard the accused expressing strong enmity,
and distinctly threatening the murdered man.
One remark'is qunotei: 'If I can only get hris
property safe, I don't care hrorv long tine poor
fool lives.' If nxe can not impugn Stilletto's

veracity, we-have a dangerous case. But the  ous as usual, he had at once started off to the
roost damaging point in the testimony is the  village to seek our hero and an honest attor-
dagger which was found in the breast of the  ney to remedy his grave error without risking
deceased. This dagger is absolutely identified  the dangers of delay.  On his way thither iris
with the one given Van Strom by his wife, conversation with Stilletto reassured the wily
when he drove to the village that day, and as Italian, so that he only feared the interference
Montant, according to the testimony of the law- of Simonetta and her friend Martin Bates, who
yers in the village, received this dagger from  ie fully expected would discover to Bella the
John, and returned with him in his wagon, the existence of the will John had made at iris
circumstance amounts to almost positive evi- instance, in which case Bella's influence upon
dence against our client. True,"he continued, her husband to undo what he had so madly
half to himself, while Josephine listened in an committed, was a matter to be feared.
agony of doubt and fear, commencing to real-  When Martin and Simonetta went forth
ize what she had heretofore refused to believe, into the wild night again, after having dis-
that there was real, tangible danger for her closed the intrigue to Mrs. Van Stroum, still
lover, "it appears evident that a third party  ignorant of the death of her husband, they
must have removed the planks of the bridge, were filled with bitterness against themselves,
while they were in the village, for Yan Strom  each other, and all the world.
had driven over the road with safety in the . "So sure as the night is bleak and tie
afternoon, and found Montant in the village, storm is mingling the heavens and earth,"
and they remained together until returning. Is cried the girl, " this man will cause my death.
it likely that Montaunt could induce Van Strom  Ai, that lie might come now and tear my
to stop the wagon, while ie alighted and re- heart from mre in an mistant; it would be far
Smoked the planks himself?    -better than to hve a life like a ihunted beast I
"Unlhikcly it does certainly seem, but with  Never will his fiery eyes lose sight of me: his
Stilletto's testimony, which establishes a mo- serpent steps will glide after mre wherever I go,
tire, strengthened as it is by the fact of Mon- till fearful watchig for his coming will drag
taut's full acquaintance with the contents of  mne down to death by slow degrees."
the will he had just seen completed, and then  " Oh, Siuuonetta!" criedl Martim nBates, dole-
that confounded dagger evidence, and the in- fully, " winy diid you reject the love of a man
disputable fact that Montant is the only person  hvl(o sought you out from the filth of the scorn
known to be present-I tell you, the district of New York to elevate you to a position of
attorney has a rare case of circumstantial evi- comfort and respectability ?"
dence. Short, not complicated, and delightful  " YouI" cried the girl, angrily, " you tilk of
to all-parties except Mr. Montant."         comfort and respectability ?  I knrow from
Josephine's distress was mastering   her what those two vile sueaks have said to each
senses; for a moment sine thought her rea- other in my runnsuspetel hearing, that you are
son would leave her; but, making a giant a robber, a base falsitier of the truth, and a
effort, sine asked, desperately:---        villain as bad as they i How dare you call
"Will not his character, his name, his high  heaven's curse upon your white hmir by re-
tone and spotless life, help you?"          preaching my loathing for you? Your forly
"Yes, it will, and I do not give it up at all alone can excuse your wickedness, you son-
yet I"                                      snal, 2hd fool!"
He sat musing awhile.                       "And is this your thanks for my friendship
Who do you think is the murderer?" mind kirndness, youungrateful, foul, andmm sinful
asked Josephine.                            wretch ?" er'i'd Martin. " I loved you when
"Do you expect a lawyer to answer such a tihe world spit in your face-I helped you
question?" he asked, with a sneer.          w'hren heaven turned away froni your-I re-
speeted you when society pointed its finger at
yorru and said, ' There is a creature of shame!'
Andnow, since you this return my afl'ection
CHAPTER II.which indeed was the fril measure of human
folly, we had inetter part company forever.
"ARE YOU GUILTY ?"              Go forth into this dark night alone and unguid-
ed, for you have rejected your best friend.
"Ifearthou play'ast most roully fort."  Return into the darkness from which I would
MAermmET.  have rescued you, and hencefoirth he to lime a
thing dead and passed from memory I"
THE reader will remember that the Italian   And with these cruel words he left her,
girl Simonetta Marini fled from  the savage turning abruptly away toward Iris brother's
wrath of Stilletto upon being discovered at house, where, before long, ie first heard of
the folding-door after the conference between  the murder.
that worthy and Mr. Muller. We have also      Simonetta found herself alone in the wild.
seen that from the direction taken by Simon- tempestuous night, forsaken by tine last friend
etta, the Italian correctly foresaw the. warning  she had. She stood on the dark road, exposed
which reached Bella through the agency of   to the blast which seemed near to sweep away
Simonetta, and it has been related how John  the whole surface of the earth. Scarcely could
was won back by the love of his wife to engn- she keep her footing, and she knew not where
fessing the foolish acts of changing iris rill at her steps were tenrding, nor did she desire to
tire instance of Stilletto anrd Muller, and to his again enter a drwellinrg inhabited by thamt hanted
former friendship for Ernest Montant. Impetur- race called hiurman. But she had not been

FORTU.NE.

1l1

110


GOING AND SON.

brought up under the kind influences of home
and friendship, nor had her dreary experience
accustomed her to dependence upon compan-
ions. What would have driven a creature of
delicate mold to complete despair only inten-
sified the bitterness of her fierce nature, steel-
ed by the experiences of her hardening life.
She resumed her way without an aim or set-
tled plan, except a vague determination to be,
henceforth. not a wretched creature of misery,
but hardened, bold, shameless. The night,
filled with the howls and shrieks and dismal
moans of the gale, was not so dark, nor was
the rage:of the elements so infuriated as the
thoughts which chased every vestige of decen-
cy from her heart. Suddenly, as she was men-
tally surrendering body and soul to the fiend
which seemed let loose upon the patient earth
on this fearful night, while she was groping
her way, she knew not whither and cared less,
she felt that some one was behind her, and
approaching rapidly. Frightened, she turned
quickly, and just escaped a collision with a man
who was hurrying along the road. Had the
darkness trebled in intensity, and the rain-
cloud madly flying along overhead shed a
hundred drops for each one, had the deaf-
ening, blinding, confusing hurricane, sum-
moned a world of additional force, no fury of
the elements could have hindered the in-
stinctive recognition of those two as they now
met.
The wild shriek which rose to Simonetta's
lips was instantaneously stifled by a sharp and
cruel blow, and as a grip of iron closed on her
throat, she heard a hissing voice she knew
too well:-
"Out with your dagger!   You or I, this
time I"
She had no weapon with her; but even if
she had, she did not possess sufficient courage
or presence of mind to use it. And as she
felt herself growing giddy, the blood filling
her head near to bursting, the voice of her heart
cried to the Virgin for mercy and pity, and
death stood before her dulling eyes, ready to
grasp her in another instant.
Whether reassured by her being unarmed,
or whether some other impulse checked his
fury, Stilletto suddenly relaxed  his hold,
allowing her freedom enough to breathe, and
then drew a dirk, forced its point with a know-
ing thrust, just through her dress, until a ter-
rified shriek announced that it pricked her
breast, and said, quickly,-
"I don't want to kill you.  I'll forgive you
all if you'll swear to return to the countess
immediately, and never tell that you saw me
this day-never repeat what you know about
John Van Str-"
He paused, and, for a second, her intensified
senses told her of a shuddering which seemed
to run through him, and relax his hold on
her throat so materially that she might have
escaped, but that she was spellbound by
terror.
" About that will, Muller and I made out to-
day," he continued, "or about any thing that
has transpired to-day."
" I promise-I promise I" she gasped. " Let
me loose. God help me I'

But the wily Italian was not to be pacified
by a mere promise, and he continued,-
"I want you to bind yourself by an oath
which will send your soul to hell if you
break it I"
And in the midst of that terrible night, to
the accompaniment of the moans of the wind
which seemed to come from men in agony far,
far away; in the midst of that night's unfath-
omable darkness, Simonetta repeated after
him words of such dreadful import as would
seal the lips of a superstitious soul, close as
the tomb. When the appalling formula of that
oath had been spoken twice over by the half.
crazed girl, Stilletto, feeling quite certain that
she would never break it, just as she, in her
Romish superstition, was certain in her own
heart, that she never could break it without
being struck dead to the ground, Stilletto,
satisfied, released her, and said, more light-
ly,-
"I forgive you all the harm you have done
me, Nettie, and if you want a friend, come to
me ! So you will go straight off to the countess,
and stay there, will you ?"
"Yes, yes, I will."
" Here is money to take you to New York."
She took it. It seemed to burn her hands,
and with a sharp cry she flung it from her.
" What is the matter now " ho exclaimed,
fiercely.
" I don't know," replied the trembling girl.
"It burned me! I am sure it burned me!
Holy Virgin have pity on me I" and she burst
into a fit of tears. lie, trembling violently him-
self, tried to soothe her, but it was of no avail.
She pushed him away, andcrying more bitterly,
sank to the ground in a fit of hysterics. For
a moment he stood irresolute ; perhaps he was
moved, perhaps he would have liked to stay
by her, perhaps he wanted such a friend as
she might still prove; but stronger motives
drove him onward."
" She will keep her oath," he muttered.
" and she is smart enough to take care of her-
self any way. Farewell, remember what you
have sworn to me," he cried aloud, and hurried
on through the darkness, leaving her to the
mercy of the elements, and also to the mercy
of their Ruler. The soft moon broke through
the clouds and looked down on her, just as a
half hour previously she looked down upon
another shape, not writhing like hers, but stilf
and motionless, not half a mile distant. At
this first sight the Queen of Heaven had veiled
herself in horror, yielding the supremacy once
more to the wild storm; but now she held her
sway, and when Simonetta returned to con-
sciousness the world lay bright before her,
the skies were starry above, and she could
look up for consolation and be answered by
the rays of hope.
*    *    *    *    *    *    *
But the grounds upon which Martin Bates
brooded until he entertained terrible suspicions
against his brother, were partly known to him-
self alone. The whole of his knowledge and
suspicions were as follows:-
Josephine has told us that Ernest Montant
was arrested on the charge of having mur-
dered his friend, John Van Strom. Martin

112


Bates, from his acquaintance with both parties,
was convinced that Stilletto was the guilty man,
and nothing would have prevented him from
putting his own worthless self into jeopardy,
by making the accusation publicly, without
out any evidence to sustain the charge, had he
he not noticed a certain change in his brother.
Eben was restless, nervous at times, confined to
his room by illness. When the affidavits upon
which Ernest Montant was arrested, reached
the Judge's hands he showed them to Martin.
With great care he dwelt upon the conclusive-
ness of.the preliminary evidence, and although
he paled visibly, when he read the Italian's
testimony aloud to Martin, yet lie enlarged
upon it with great legal precision, and tried to
show his brother how it seemed impossible
that Stilletto could have accomplished such
an extensive and intricate statement had it
been perjury.-
" Where was Stilletto at the time of the
murder?  Oh, I forgot he was here!"
"Yes, at this house," answered Eben,
quickly.
" Strange that no one knew it," said
Martin, with a thousand distracted emotions
in his heart.
"He was here. That is enough. I can
testify to that, again in court," answered the
judge, calmly, but paler still.
Martin said no more, turning away to think,
heaven knows what.
The date of the trial of Ernest Montant, for
the horrible crime ofmurder had now been fixed,
and was not many days distant. Martin Bates
became gloomier and sadder all the time,
waiting for fate to prepare his last task on
earth, the duty for which his life had been
prolonged. The tragedy had made a terrible
sensation. Not only the neighborhood, but
the whole country was aroused, the detectives
from the great cities were at work, the bar
was in a flutter of expectation, and prominent
among the attorneys who had been engaged,
stood Mr. Paradise (who fortunately was a
member of the Massachusetts bar) to conduct
the defense of the accused. It was generally
understood that the trial would go hard with
the prisoner, but the activity of the detectives
and the extensive employment of spies, private
agents, and attorneys showed that some per.
son of means and influence had befriended him.
As to the prisoner, Montant, immediately
after the murder, he had accused Stilletto
of the deed. He swore he had recognized
him--he described the dreadful occurrence
with startling circumstantiality, and on his
affidavit Stilletto was arrested. But by the
testimony of Judge Eben Bates, who swore to
Stiletto's presence at his house, before, during,
and after the time when the murder must have
been committed, an alibi was proved so clearly
that he was immediately discharged. Then
came Stilletto's affidavit regarding threats
made by Montant, against John Van Strom's
life, the circumstance of Montant's charge
against Stilletto began to look as if he had
desired to shut the latter's mouth by putting
him in jeopardy, the undeniable fact that
Montant was the only person known to have
been present at the murder, and, finally, the
8

testimony concerning the dagger, with other
circumstantial evidence, all combined with
singular fallacy to make up the situation which
had inspired Mr. Paradise with the most seri.
ous apprehensions. As Martin Bates thought
it all over, he trembled, not so much for the
life of a man who had not shown himself to be
a friend of his, as for the probable escape of
the real criminal, who, he was positive, was
Stilletto, in spite of his brother's oath, proving
the alibi.
" If that oath was false, Eben is accessory,"
soliloquized Martin, and while he was tortur-
ing himself about this question, he received the
following letter, postmarked, New York, and
written in Italian by the Countess, for Simon-
etta herself was not mistress of the pen:
"SIGNoR MARTIN BATES:-Will you be so
kind as to favor me with a call on the day before
the trial. Ask the countess, who is writing this
for me, if I am within, and if she says yes, wait
for me by the great stove in the dancing hail.
I shall come there by eight o'clock in the even-
ing. If I may be absolved from an awful oath
I will show the world where a certain person
was, at a certain time, and the lies that have
been told will be blown to the four corners of
the earth. If I can not be absolved from this
oath, human kind shall no more know Simon-
etta. Try not to seek me, keep the officers
away from my path. At the first sign of pur-
suit I will fly away beyond their reach, where
I can spend the rest of my life in better ways.
I know all the evidence that has appeared in
the newspapers, and it is all false, but unless
God commands me to break my oath I must
let it stand. Remember that no friendship, no
relationship should prevent bringing the real
murderer to justice. Murder strikes at the
core of life, whence friendship and love arise,
and necessarily severs them.
" SIMONETTA."
After the two sleepless nights which fol-
lowed the receipt of that letter, Martin put to
his brother that dread question which heads
this chapter.
He had made up his mind to steal away from
the house, the next morning before daybreak,
go to New York and confer with Mr. Paradise
or any other of the counsel for the defense, that
he could readily find before going to see the
Italian gill. As he was retiring to his room,
his heart sank with the fear that he might not
again see his brother until--He stopped at
Eben's door. He heard his brother's voice low,
moaning in agonized prayer. He opened the
door noiselessly. There was the stately judge,
a pitiable wreck of manhood, on his knees, in
anguish, as if tortured by an accusing con-
science.
Martin laid his hand on his shoulder.
"Brother, dear brother," burst from the old
man, in faint accents, "tell me what is troub-
ling you!1, I know your secret. I know Stil-
letto is your son, and that it was he for whom
I brought you the sacrifice of my honor. If
he has forced you into denying your knowledge
of his crime-if he hiss drawn you into-ger-
jury; if he has made you his assistant, his

I 13

FORTUNE.


114                     .       GOING A:
tool, his accessory, Oh, for God's sake!4 tear
the diabolical net of lies which has been spread
for the life of an innocent man, throw yourself
upon the mercy of man, law, and God, and
confess."
Taken unawares by the sudden interruption,
Eben had needed time to recover himself.
"Martin," he said, furious with shame and
confusion, "you are no longer addressing your
brother, but Judge Eben Bates."
"Then I charge you, Judge Eben Bates,"
cried Martin, with flashing eyes, "you, who
have preserved your dignity by my crimes,
you, who have purchased your honor with my
shame, I ask you, in the name of the Judge
whom no affidavits can pervert, I charge you
on your immortal soul, in the name of truth,
life, and death, by heaven and hell, and the
eternal God, to tell me, Are you guilty 7"
Judge Bates stood grandly towering. His
face showed more of death than of life. Only
one motion did he make, no syllable passed
his firm-set lips. He pointed to the door. The
majesty of innocence offended, or a giant at
bay?
Without another word, Martin retired to his
own room. . "No friendship, no relationship,
should prevent bringing the real murderer to
justice," he quoted from Simonetta's letter, as,
a few hours later, he quit the house, never to
enter it again.
CHAPTER III
"LA PERFECT STRANGER."
"When fortune in her shift and change of mood
Spurns down her late beloved, all his dependents,
Let him slip down.
Not one accompanying his declining foot."  -
TIMON oF ATHENs.
THERE is an intoxication, an egotistical sat-
isfaction, a luxury in the excess of grief. The
condition of overwhelming frenzied suffering
brings with it an elation, during which the
strong man calls upon his manhood and his
religion to bear him up, and his spirits revel
in an intensity of feeling and a depth of
thought which raise him into closer proximity
to God.
But when we have to face slow, lingering
tortures; when we have to live through tribu-
lations which do not engage our whole mind,
but give us breathing spells of treacherous
happiness, only to be succeeded again and
again by lower descents; when these trials are
of a nature to destroy pride, self-reliance, and
strength of purpose; when we see those de-
pending upon us, whom we love and cherish,
and find ourselves powerless to help them,-
then do we suffer a thousand pangs in one;
then do our multiplied afflictions break down
our strength and blight our life, and Hope and
Faith die a lingering death. Such is the down-
fall into poverty!/
Do you see that old man, with but the rem-
nants of grace and beauty, walking the streets
of New York? lie has lost his wife in the
prime of manhood, and his God helped him
through that agony ; he has seen two children

ND SON.

die in his arms, and he recovered from the
shock with unbroken faith ; he has known
false friends, but his belief in human nature
was not shaken. Now he is poor, and, in his
old age, he has to taste the bitterest gall; he
is poor, and now only does he hang his head
and succumb to grief.
Thus do we find old Mr. Going, his name
still untarnished, though a thousand tongues
heap suspicion on it, his credit not yet forfeit.
ed, though virtually gone, his house, the good
old house of Going &amp; Son, still standing, but
rotten and tottering, so that the whole cruel
world can see its decay.. Thus he goes forth
one morning, with a face where grief and
shame have set their seal, with a step which
nas become feeble and wavering, with a heart
broken long, long ago-to borrow money!
Yes, to borrow. Heaven knows what that
word means to an honest man, when he no
longer applies for an accommodation. or asks
a favor, but has to beg it as a charity!
He goes to seek Mr. Chip, " Old Moneybags,"
as he was called by half New York. Oh ! the
sigh which escaped the old man, as he entered
the banking-house, with the clerks bustling
about, and an intimation of wealth and solidity
pervading the very air of the stately counting-
room. It was so with him once !
He asks for Mr. Chip, and, upon sending in
his name, is informed that Mr. Chip is busy;
but will see him in a few moments. He takes
a chair and waits humbly.
" He has dined at my table," soliloquized
Mr. Going, "and, although with the exception
of Hobgoblin, we have had no business transac-
tions together, he can not refuse me."
Finally, he was admitted to Mr. Chip, who
received him with studied politeness, an ex.
pression on his thin, fishy face the while
which might have meant, "I would be de-
lighted to see you, were I quite certain that
you did not come for money."
" Mr. Chip," said Mr. Going, in an unsteady
voice, "I have come to ask you a question."
" I am bus- that is, I am at your service,
my dear sir," answered Mr. Chip, nervously;
adding, with a sudden inspiration of decisive-
ness, "I hope it is not about Hobgoblin! I
have resigned my trusteeship in the com-
pany, as you know very well, and I really
must decline to enter into any conversation on
that subject."
"It is not Hobgoblin," said Mr. Going, qui-
etly. Mr. Chip wheeled around on his chair,
like a weathercock, and examined the ceiling
as if he had never seen it before.
"Well, what is it ?" he asked, growing fidg-
etty.
"Mr. Chip," said Mr. Going, trembling in
every limb from timidity and humiliation; but
proceeding, because he must, "you know that
I have lost my fortune. Still, I am, I hope,
not a bankrupt, and when I now ask you to
kindly loan me a few thousand dollars, to make
my family comfortable-to make my family
comfortable," repeated the old gentleman, in a
thick voice, "I can assure you that I will re-
pay you, and I must also confess that I need
this assistance very much-very much, in-
deed."

oui
to
shc
bu
tux
an
acs
au


FORTUNE.

The human race has produced brutes,-
heartless, cruel, savage creatures,-but there
are many hardened felons, who, had they pos-
sessed the money, would have spoken cheer-
ingly to Mr. Going and helped him willingly.
Mr. Chip was reputed to be an accommoda-
ting man, an easy-going, rather good-tempered
fellow. Hear him answer:-
"Mr. Going-ahem 1 I am sorry, very sorry
for your difficulties-but why do you come to
me for assistance ? To me, a perfect stranger ?
A perfect stranger," he repeated, with empha-
sis, so as to express, with all the refined
cruelty of which this cold age is capable, that
the world of selfishness, which is composed
of wealth, had cast him out, that he was
now an unknown, unpitied stranger, and that
he was thrown to the mercy of God knows
what!
And yet, Mr. Chip was not a harsh man.
The word stung Mr. Going to the quick. At
first, an angry rejoinder rose to his lips; but
the pain of the .rebuff, the cruel thrust at his
noble heart, took the last remnant of strength
from him. For a moment he thought of the
bitter lesson he now, in his sixtieth year, had
been taught ; he remembered how often this
man, that called him stranger now, had en-
joyed his hospitality, and he became proudly
aware that the creature was not worthy a re-
ply. With a cold " Good morning, sir," he
moved to the door.
"Wait a moment, Mr. Going," stammered
Mr. Chip, seriously discomfited, "I did not
mean to offend you, sir."
" You did not offend me, sir," replied Mr.
Going, with a bow.
"But, just wait a moment," cried Mr. Chip,
in some alarm. "If it must be done, we will
try to arrange-only-you know-I am sorry
that I myself can not-just now."
" I believe that I did not ask you a second
time. My first request you have answered
with a single word. Good morning."
He left Mr. Chip in as uneasy a frame of
mind as possible from so trifling an occasion.
The little millionaire had not intended to be
harsh. His narrow views could not take in the
misery which the mere uttering of the request
caused the old gentleman, much less what had
brought him to that necessity. Could he have
correctly interpreted the expression in that
plaintive bright eye, could he have understood
the language of that haggard though still
handsome countenance, had he reflected upon
the sanctity of those silver locks, upon which
the hand of Heaven was now so heavily laid,
perhaps he would have acted differently;-
and perhaps he would not.
Mr. Chip had occasion to meet Mr. Paradise
that day. The lawyer, whom  every one dis-
liked, and who had wrung respect for his
ability from the scoffing world by sheer power
of intellect, was a liberal, off-hand man in
money matters. Mr. Chip related to him the
circumstance of Mr. Going's visit.
"The old man never knew how to borrow,"
said the hunchback, laughing, "and fortu-
bately for him it was no great loss heretofore.
I like people who do not know how to bor-
row, and I have half a mind to go to the old

115

gentleman and help him out from sheer friend-
ship."
He was a man that might have assisted Mr.
Going in the hour of his need-but then again
he might have changed his mind, for money
means treachery personified all through this
world. And it happened that Mr. Going, sick at
heart, did not renew his attempts to borrow;
and it also happened that Mr. Paradise, al-
though a liberal, off-hand man in money mat-
ters, forgot all about his generous impulse, and
did not assist his old client, from whom he had
received a fortune in fees, and through whose
patronage he had acquired a great portion of
his practice and standing.
When Mr. Going reached his office, he
found Walter awaiting him anxiously. On this
paltry sum of a few thousand dollars, de-
pended a world of vital issues, embodying the
safety, comfort, and serenity of the family.
When, a man is harassed for money, he is in
no condition to grapple with other questions,
even though vital to his future welfare. One
look at his father, showed Walter, only too
plainly, that another effort had failed, that an-
other humiliation had been undergone, and
that another day had been sadly inaugurated
fmr them. Without asking a question, or sub-
jecting his father to the additional sorrow and
vexation of discussing what had happened,
Walter put on his hat, and with a defiant swag-
ger, left the counting-room. In an hour he
returned with so much money as was actually
needed; but how he had obtained it, what des-
perate efforts had been required to wring the
small sum from the merciless multitude of
friends, that were friends no longer, how
much  sacrifice of pride it had cost, and
how he had been obliged to screw his courage
to that unnatural sticking-point, vulgarly called
" brass," no one ever could learn from him.
When Walter Going left the office to saunter
up town, he met Mr. Solomong at the corner
of the street. TheJew looked as brightly pol-
ished as ever, but his diamond buttons, his
watch and chain had disappeared.
"Solomons, what is the matter with you?
Where are your diamonds and your watch,
hey ?"
The sad face of the stockbroker and auc-
tioneer gave sufficient answer.  His salloyw
countenance was drawn to that length and
had assumed that expression which ir human
physiognomy denotes extreme depression.
Walter had not seen him for some weeks,
having been so entirely occupied with his own
troubles that the doings of others necessarily
escaped his attention. Therefore he had not
known that Mr. Solomons had lost all his
money, and indeed many times more than he
had ever possessed,
" Mr. Going, sir," said Mr. Solomons, "I am
ruined. I was an ass. I did not stick to my
regular business, went speculating again, ay
vollaw law raysoultaw I"
With a smile at the Israelitic French, Wal-
ter said,-
"Why don't you end your sentences with
Cash any more, Solomons ?"
" The day of cash is done," answered Solo-
mons, dolefully. " Cash is dead, it has taken


GOING AND SON.

wings and fled. My diamonds and watch are
learning Hebrew."
"Doing what ?"
"Learning Hebrew at the house of an
esteemed countryman of mine. I mean that
they are pawned."
" Well, let them rest," said Walter, laughing.
"We are well met; being both poor, we are
good company, and I propose that we walk up
town together. You see the great thing is
that neither of us will be afraid that the otlier
will borrow money from him ! How delight-
ful, and how much more comfortable that is
than when a rich man and a beggar meet I"
Mr. Solomons explained that he was com-
pletely ruined, and absolutely without credit
at any shop, hotel, or restaurant. He lived
" by the grace of God," as he said, but how he
managed to keep from utter destitution, he
was no more able to relate than any student
of social science can account for the existence
of thousands like him.
As they walked up town, Walter realized,
with a disagreeable sensation, that his situa-
tion was more analogous to that of Mr. Solo-
mons than he would have desired.
" Let us cross over the street," said the Jew,
when they had got pretty well up Broad-
way.
" Why?" asked Walter, following him.
" My tailor lives hard by," answered the
other, "and I have secret reasons which impel
me to avoid his door."
Solomons laughed, but Walter did not.
" My tailor lives right here," he said, "but I
have not gone so far quite yet, as to be afraid
of him."
" Do you owe him a bill ?"
"Yes, what of that ?"
" How long has it run?"
"About a year."
"Do you expect to be able to pay him in
the course of this year?"
Walter bit his lips. "I hope so," he an-
swered.
" Well, so did I hope, a year ago," rejoined
the Jew, dryly. "But my hopes proved vain,
and let me tell you my proud friend that if
you do not pay him, you will shun your tailor's
door next year, as I do mine to-day."
Walter would have been angry, but he had
not the heart to take offense at this shrewd
and unanswerable piece of philosophy.
" Let's take a glass of wine, Solomons, and
drop the subject," he said, sharply.
" With pleasure," answered Mr. Solomons.
"But not in there," he added, pulling his
friend away from a door he was on the point
of opening. "I owe that fellow money, and
don't want to be seen."
"Solomons," cried Walter, "It is not respect-
able to be in debt all over town."
"Is it respectable to be hungry and thirsty,
and see your clothes wear to threads? I tell
you, sir, this town owes me a living. I have
spent thousands with these traders, and they
can afford to trust me a few hundred for a
year or two."
" Thea why don't you tell them so, and keep
out of the disgraceful position of shunning
them."

"Because they would not trust me ai all
if I explained to them. Tradespeople are a
mysterious set of characters. They form a
study for a man, and he must know how
to handle them."
"God keep me from that science !" cried
Walter.
" That science has kept me alive," answered
the Jew, quietly; "and live I must and shall,
in spite of all your high moral ideas! Be.
sides, I do nothing dishonest,. I mean to pay
them some day. The worst of it is that I can.
not economize ! I can get a Delmonico dinner
and a bottle of claret on trust; but if I stopped
in a Bowery cellar and begged for a bit of
bread and cheese, they would kick me out.
By the way, I want to go in here to buy a
cravat."
"Never mind," said Walter, "I have no
time; it is late."
"Is that the only reason ?" asked the Jew,
scrutinizing his face.
"1 None of your business," answered Walter,
angrily. "If you are so anxious, let us go
They entered the gentlemen's furnishing
store. One of the proprietors of the estab-
lishment immediately stepped up to Mr.
Going, and, rubbing his hands, said, what a.
fine day it was, and inquired why he had been
such a stranger of late.
Walter, under the continued observation of
Mr. Solomons, turned red, and after displaying
considerable of nervousness, said, with an
effort,-
"Muggins, I owe you a bill. Let me know
how much it is, and I will write you a check."
Mr. Muggins, all smiles and   politeness,
brought forth his account, and the check was
given.
"Aha !" said the Jew, when they had re-
gained the street. "So I was right in suspect-
ing a reason for your unwillingness to enter
that shop! But what a lucky man you are to
be able to write him a check !"
" Solomons," said Walter, gloomily, "I will
confess to you that my cheek is not good until
we make it so, by a deposit to-morrow."
" Then you were a fool to give it. The idea
of allowing a fellow like that to put you to
such inconvenience, or even danger of con-
siderable annoyance !"
" The bank will pay it, of course, good or
not," answered Walter; vexed with himself,
and all the world. "But you are right ; I
should not have given it."
" Cheer up, my dear fellow," said Mr. Solo-
mons, soothingly, "I am a thousand times-
worse off than you; but that does not change
one fact, which, with your permission, I will
state frankly. You are on that sort of a road
to poverty where nothing but a large amount
of ready money can save you."
Walter thought of those words long after
they were spoken, and with a heavy heart was
forced to admit their truth. A few months
longer of this state of affairs would reduce him
to Mr. Solomons' - level, and that was not
respectability.
Miss Jessie awaited her father and brother
at home. They were still living in Fifth

116

quic
M
in
testi
jud
M
hea
T
the
and
be
wai
ea
prol
seni
the
from
waas
amos
stood
mea
the 4
under
the p
andt
ages
eon o
Am
after
of t
him._
with
affid
testi
Still
and
been
that
cami
madi
life.

I bee


Avenue; but it appeared to them as if they
enjoyed the fine residence only as tenants,
simply tolerated out of charity by those who
owned the heavy mortgages which had long
ago been given upon it.
She received them with a smile,-a smile
that was born from a day of tears-a smile so
forced and unnatural that it was not recipro-
cated by her father. The old gentleman had
not laughed for months. His whole face was
changed, she thought, and she felt as if she
would have given all she possessed in the
world to see once more a happy smile upon it.
No more friends at that hospitable board.
JTo more cheerfulness in that house. Thus
they had lived through the heavy days, in
gloom, anxiety, and misery, and for what was
it all ? Was there any visible cause ? Surely,
the poor work-people, who daily passed the
house, did not dream of this, yet the curse of
poverty was upon them; and its fangs are
keenest where least apparent.
"Jessie," said Mr. Going, when dinner had
been removed, and Walter had strolled out,
"I hear that Paradise is engaged for the de-
fence of Ernest Montant. I hope and trust
that he will procure his acquittal. I can not
imagine that he is guilty."
"I know he is not," answered she, brightly
and cheerfully.
Her father, astonished at her tone, looked at
her closely. Our hero's name had not been
mentioned between them since that day he had
left the house, after making his last appeal to
Mr. Going, when the father had read in his
daughter's face the story of her love and
struggle. Like a wise man, he had determined
to let her fight alone, where no help could avail,
and, until this instance, Montant's name had
remained unspoken by mutual consent. He
was, therefore, astonished at her open and
hearty answer, which, although so confident,
of the prisoner's innocence, yet showed none
of that confusion he had feared would over-
come her.. He, however, continued without
betraying his astonishment,-
"I most certainly agree with you, and I am
glad you think so well of him."
"He is a good, fine fellow," answered Miss
Jessie, unhesitatingly. "And I like him as a
brother. I suppose there is no doubt about
his engagement to Josephine Van Strom ?"
" I think not. It was she that employed
Mr. Paradise. Jessie," continued the old gen-
tleman, drawing nearer to her, "do not think
that I am desirous of forcing myself into such
of your confidences as even a father can not
share. But I must confess my astonishment
that you can speak with such nonchalance of
these things, and-
"I know what you mean," she answered,
with a smile. "I had a foolish fancy once;
but the great cares and great anxieties be-
longing to the practical, have quite satisfied
my ideal requirements."
Mr. Going kissed his daughter, and he
sighed, though he was glad to hear it.
"Do not despair, father," said Jessie, lov-
ingly. "If my plans of a cottage in the
Country, and a total change in our manner of
tife, are carried out, all will be well. As for

me, do not believe that an evanescent attach-
ment can make me unhappy any more. I
only hope and pray to see you free from care,
and as for our friend, I am certain he will not
suffer for a crime of which he is innocent. I
can pray for his welfare, for he is true and
noble-but nothing more to me.
CHAPTER IV.
STRANGE cONvERsATIONs.
" How much had I to do to calm his rage 1
Now fear I this will give it start again."
HAMLET.
BELLA VAN STROM'S grief was terrible.
It never gave her a moment's respite. She
paced up and down the piazza of her dwelling
while the snow and the thaw rendered the
garden paths unpleasant, for she could not
endure the idea of sitting down quietly in the
house. She watched the sun as it sunk into
the embrace of the gilded hills, and light-
ed up the winter landscape with dazzling splen-
dor. To her the world was empty. She had
withdrawn within herself, and had dropped a
black veil between herself and the " outer
world.
Well might that world envy her and won-
der at her "luck." She had married an idiot
for his money-the idiot was dead, and the
money her's. All the pleasures of the earth
lay before her, with plenty of good, handsome,
well-bred fellows, apt to like her well enough
and her fortune better. And yet her grief
was terrible !
She had learned to love that idiot before he
died.
Bella is walking up and down the piazza,
heedless of the wind which is beginning to
blow sharp and cold ~ as evening shadows
stretch over the country. A carriage drives
through the gate up to the house. A lady in
black alights and runs up to Bella.  She
throws back her veil and kisses her; Bella re-
turns the kiss affectionately, but without
enthusiasm. Josephine's nature demands en-
thusiasm, requires warm impulses. The hasty,
joyous words which trembled on her lips, die
away and she recoils a step:-
Josephine (half-timidly, half-angrily). " Par-
don me, I forgot that we are sisters no
longer."
Bella (quietly). "We are sisters in law,
Josephine, and sisters in affection as well. I
never gave you reason to doubt it."
Josephine. " Where there is a change in
manner, there must be a change in the sen-
timents which dictate that manner 1  Ever
since that awful visitation of God's wrath
which widowed you, and desolated my life,
you have treated me like a stranger."
Bella. "No. But I feel as if we two should
let Time and Truth do their work before we
force each other to profess a contentment and
pleasure in each other's society which can not
really exist until the shadow which stands be-
tween us now is removed."
Josephine. " And what have you done to

FORTUNE.

117


GOING AND SON.

remove it? -Have you taken that interest,
have you shown that anxiety, have you acted
with that sisterly love which you have just
professed?"
Bella (calmly). " I have done my duty. As
your fortune is not yet available to you, I
have, by my own free will, out of my private
purse, supplied you with the means of procur-
ing for your lover the best defense in the
country."       -
Josephine. " And have you given me your
advice-have you stood by me, that am so
weak, with your strength and power of mind
and will?  Oh, it is cruel to find that when
you most need them, your best, your only
friends grow cold as ice I"
Bella. Josephine, I love justice well enough
to see justice, and nothing but justice, done. I
have love for nothing else until time and na-
ture restore me to a semblance of my former
self."
Josephine. "You suspect him of being guil-
ty?"
Bella. "I suspect the whole world and yet
suspect no one. I-have aid for the accused,
that his cause may be so protected as to in-
sure impartial justice. I have zeal to assist
the law in all its just prosecution ; but I have
pity for no one until his innocence becomes as
clear as that sun now saying good-night to
us."
Josephine. " Oh, how hard it is for a woman
to be alone."
Bella. "I am alone-forever /"
Josephine. " And is this the sisterhood to
which we are pledged by our holiest resolves?
Do not our destiny, the name we bear in com-
mon, the sympathies which have interwoven
our very souls, teach us to seek comfort in
each other, to bear up and strengthen each
other now that we stand apart from the whole
world ?"
Bella. " My grief is selfish. It will endure
no helpmate. I have to fight a sacred battle,
and no human eye may profane it by any in-
trusion."
Josephine. "Did I so spurn you from me
when you came to me at the Priory a frighten-
ed, miserable being, not knowing where to
turn for a word of encouragement, a ray of
sympathy, a look of love! Oh, I see that I
was mistaken when I said to myself, 'Poor
John's intuition has got him a nobler wife
than all the wisdom of the wise could have
selected for him. Really, we know the human
heart only when the hour of trial brings it out
in its true light I"
Bella. "What would you have me do?
Condole with you, before I can know that a
heavier blow is not in store for you ? 1 will
save my consolations till then. Do you ex-
pect me to speak sisterly words to you while
a specter stands between us, whose ghastly
wounds cry to Heaven for retribution? Do
you think I can weep for you, while my own
tears are petrified, making my heart cold and
heavy as lead? I have not yet shed a tear for
my own loss.  When I see the guilty man
brought to justice, I shall be clear in my con-
science, and then, perhaps, God, in mercy, will
vouchsafe me tears."

Josephine. "You wrong yourself-you wrong
him, me, cruelly; oh, how cruelly!"
Bella. "I wrong no one. I am ice-bound in
a remorseless mission of duty. That will I
fulfill, though each unrelenting step should
crush a world. I feel as if that alone could
give me peace ; I feel as if that alone could
restore me to the favor of heaven, from which
I am now shut out. That accomplished, I
feel that I could be a woman once more and
weep, while now I am but a cold, dead instru-
ment, animated by the god of vengeance to
fulfill his purpose."
Josephine. " This language is unwomanly,
unchristian, ungodly, and unworthy of your
better self."
Bella. "Yet so you find me now. Come into
the house. Although I can not keep you com-
pany, you will find hospitality. I have no
merit in that ; the house belongs half to you,
half to me. Through my instrumentality you
have recovered the one-half of the Van Strom
fortune which belongs to'you. In this I have
done my duty, and claim no praise for it.
Only when I continue henceforward to do my
duty, I will not be upbraided."
Josephine. "Bella, God help you and me!
What do your words mean ? Do you-can
you suspect me ?"
Josephine, utterly unstrung, burst into a
passionate fit of crying.
Bella, with a look of amazement, said,-
"This, at least, I was not prepared for!
Fool that I am, how have I conveyed such a
meaning?"
She assisted Josephine into the house, and
reassured her, when the latter had become
somewhat calm.
"I call Heaven to witness that the faintest
idea of such a cruel wrong was furthest from
my mind. Compose yourself on this point any
way, and rest assured that I will help you as
I did before, though I can not counsel you.
God grant that the day may soon come, when
I shall be able to make atonement for my
harshness to you, but I can not do so now-not
now. There is nothing in my heart that
speaks against you-no, indeed! But I am
become a stone and I can not speak even to
you as I should. So let time develop the
change I know must come over me, living or
dying, and till then bear with me, and hope
that you will regain your loving sister ere long.
Good night."
She kissed the weeping woman and disap-
peared.
Josephine, though somewhat comforted,
spent many hours of sleepless sorrow, be-
wailing the awful phase her sister's grief had
assumed, but her thoughts would still turn
back to her lover and to the grave doubts Mr.
Paradise continued to express. So near the
trial, so very near-only a few days !
And now we will leave her and listen to
what two gentlemen have to say, who are
troubled almost as much as she, though from
slightly different causes.
We left our highly philosophic friend, Mr.
Muller, waiting for his friend Antonio Stilletto.
He could wait ; he knew how to wait, which
is a great science. He had plenty of beer and

118


FORT
tobacco, and the flight of time was to him only
the source of a majestic contentment as he
smoked his pipe and drank his beer.
But when noon had faded away into eve-
ning, when night put in her black appearance,
accompanied by such a tempest as threatened
to disturb the balance of this mundane sphere,
and, finally, when the beer and the pipe, those
two mainstays of true philosophy, began to pall
upon the palate, and taste bitter from unlimited
abuse, then did the philosopher almost lose his
serenity; he began to wish that Stilletto had
kept his marching orders in his pocket, and,
to his shame be it. confessed, swore great
polysyllablic oaths, in German, at the Italian.
When finally a ring at the door, sounded
clear and startling, and when Stilletto made
his appearance, dripping wet, shivering and
shaking with extraordinary excitement and a
sort of wild look in his eye, Mr. Muller felt a
vague instinct of repugnance, and wished, as we
often do in life, that the person whose advent
was so much desired had staid away indefinitely.
Muller. " Where have you been ?" ,
Stilletto. "I was at Judge Bates's from three
o'clock till now. Just come from there. What
is the exact time ?"
Muller. " Nine o'clock."
"From three till nine, from three till nine,"
repeated Stilletto, mechanically, and finding
It a difficult and thankless task to start any
further conversation, the two friends went to
bed in the worst possible humor. Muller was
too lofty to ask why he had been kept waiting,
all ready to start at a moment's notice, and felt
injured at Stilletto's silence on that subject,
while the cunning Italian was afraid to say any
thing near the truth, for fear of betraying his
night's work.
We find them again, some time after the
murder, and after Stilletto had been arrested
and released upon proving an alibi by Judge
Bates's testimony.
The philosopher was enjoying the solitude
of his room and the anticipation of the glori-
ous success of their scheme, which would come
to light as soon as John Van Strom's will
should be admitted to probate, when Stilletto
burst violently into the room and seriously dis-
turbed his equanimity, by conduct worthy of
an escaped bedlamite, while he explained in
accents hardly intelligible, from excitement)
and oaths in all languages, that John's will had
been opened, and that it utterly demolished and
ruined all their fond hopes, and further, that
the will which they had so cunningly got out
of him was canceled, revoked, and made worth-
less, in the most positive legal language that
could be employed, and all this by a will made
in the village on the afternoon of the day of
his murder. A will which complied with the
)minutest requirements of the law, without a
ghost of a chance for them if they undertook
to dispute it,.
. Muller (dejectedly). " The great boss devil
18against us."      '        .
Stiletto (almost foaming at the mouth). "Non-
Sense! I know who is at the bottom of it all.
Those two women worked upon the idiot and
hie confessed to them, the cursed fool, what I
was moving heaven and earth to keep from

rUNE.

119

their ears until I had--" Here he stopped
short, and, growing pale, scrutinized the phi-
losopher's countenance, as if anxious to see
whether he showed any suspicions of what he
was about to confess in the madness of his
temper. But Mr. Muller was simply paralyzed
and livid from this most unlooked-for news.
He could not speak, but sat as if a thunder-
bolt had descended upon him on a clear, sunny
day.
Stiletto (pacing the room). " But there is
money enough yet in the country for a smart
man, and, although we can not now hope to
control millions, I mean to get enough though
I have to tear it from the jaws of hell I Re-
venge is the word! One of the dirty wenches
is a widow already, the other shall see her
lover hanged, unless Antonio Stilletto becomes
crazy over night !"
Muller (in utter despair). "Thus does Desti-
ny bring us within sight of the goal, thus she
dazzles our eyes and captivates our souls with
a foretaste of what we covet, only to snatch
it from us at the eleventh hour. I shall go
teaching school !"
Stilletto (sneeringly). "With your sentiments
I'd turn priest."
Muller. "No, no! I can train the young and
budding mind and rear a full glorious plant of
human intellect.  I can humble myself and
starve for that purpose; but I Can not serve
in the ranks of bigotry or hypocrisy. Reason
is my god and I am her priest. Take a note
of it, young man,-thus- speaks August Mul-
ler."
Stilletto. " Thus speaks an ass,.who has done
me more harm than good all the time I have
known him."
Muller. "Young man, your intellect is but
a small degree above that of the brute, and
your impulses are on a level with your intel-
lect! Do not make yourself ridiculous or pro-
voke my just wrath by such foul language !"
Stilletto. " Go to hell!"
Muller (pale with rage). " I wish I never had
met you, you villainous, mongrel dog! Another
word, and I will proclaim to the world what I
know of you."
Stilletto hesitated a moment. There was a
dangerous flash in his treacherous eye; lie
made a movement toward Muller, so threaten-
ing, that the latter recoiled in terror, but sud-
denly checking himself, he remembered that if
his relationship to Judge Bates should come
out, his father might, in a moment of despair,
say some thing about that alibi, which would
be very undesirable. True, it is not pleasant
to confess the crime of perjury, but when a
man is once thoroughly disgraced, he generally
unburdens his whole conscience to make a
clear breast of it.
Stilletto (coldly). "Neither you nor I can af-
ford to quarrel, so stop your nonsense. I have
nothing against you; but your senseless chat-
ter about philosophy vexes mg at times. Let
us consult about the next thing to be done."
Muller. "August Muller is easily won over,
especially by a friend. Let us pledge this new
alliance in a bumper of malt."
SStiletto. " Well, take it down until you burst
your-self, if you want to: but excuse me."


GOING AND SON.

Muller. " To-day I was subpoenaed for the
trial as. a witness, and I don't regret it. I like
to talk in public, for a man of superior mind
should not always remain unnoticed. In my
testimony, sir, I mean to argue-"
Stilletto (interrupting). "I tell you what
you'd better do. Make up your mind to say
as little as possible-only 'yes' or 'no,' when
they will be sufficient. Paradise is engaged
for the defense, and if you give him a chance,
by talking too much, he will make you say
things that will astonish you when you see
them on paper afterward, and hear what a
nice thing he will make out of them in his
pleading. No, no! The great point is, that
you and I must not contradict each other, and
to prevent that, we must talk it all over be-
tween ourselves."
Muller. " But the truth needs no prepara-
tion before it is given in evidence."
Stiletto. "I say it does."
Muller (thoughtfully). "My friend, do you
really think that this countryman of mine, this
lad whom I once came near taking to my bo-
som as a friend, this intelligent, well-born, and
educated person, whom August Muller, yes,
sir, August Muller received at his house?"-
do you-can you think that he is really
guilty?"
Stiletto. "We will. see at the trial whether
he is or not. I hope he'll be hanged, that's
all."
Muller. "I hope not, if he is innocent."
Stilletto. "You have promised me my re-
venge upon him, remember. Now that I have
a chance, I mean to improve it."
Muller. " Do not speak thus. The utterance
of such sentiments is an ill omen."
Stilletto, (turning pale). "Do you believe in
omens ?"
Muller. "Yes, sir, for philosophy teaches us
that there is a mysterious connection between
the past, present, and future, and that great
events are often foreshadowed in a hundred
trifling occurrences."
Stilletto. "And do you believe in dreams,
too?"
Muller. "Yes, sir. Sleep presents two as-
pects. One is the near approach to death
when the mind slumbers with the body; in the
other, the mind freed from the grossness of
the body, becomes etherealized, and travels
through the land of spirits, accomplishing
mysterious wonders. Spiritualism, my friend,
will grow into a great science, just as astrol-
ogy was the mother of astronomy, and alchemy
the predecessor of chemistry."
Stilletto. " You always have your mouth full
of big words, but their meaning is either hack-
neyed or utterly absurd."
Muller. "I tell you dreams have a relation
to the past and future."
Stilletto. "I don't care if they have. If I
believed in them, I should be scared out of my
wits, for I have had vile ones lately."
Muller. " Who do you think can be the real
murderer ?"
Stiletto (jumping up). "What do you mean
by asking me such a question? If you dare
suspect-Well, well, Muller, don't mind me,
I am going to New York to-morrow to see the

countess, and will not be back until the day   A
of the trial."                                 en
The philosopher was delighted to hear it,    si
for in truth Stilletto frightened him terribly. O
Stilletto. "By the way, do you know that     aE
Stump is in this part of the country. I have
seen him several times. He tells me that he    ti
has made lots of money, and from an old liking fC
for the business, he has just taken a look into ci
this murder affair. He has some relatives here a
whom he is visiting. If I had not seed them    el
myself, personally, I should be almost- afraid w
that he was hired by the defense to--to-.."    w
Muller. " To what? Why should you be
afraid?  Now that I think of it, he has been   N
here twice during your absence, and I had a    ti
long talk-"                                     g
Stilletto (frenzied with rage). " The devil il
you did?  You drunken old idiot, why did not   t
you tell me so before ?"                       h
Muller. "Because, whenever we meet, you
indulge in such gusts of temper, and assail mek
with such invectives and threats, that I forget
to tell you trifling news, being altogether en. I
grossed with solicitude for your peace of mind,
and always fearing lest some hasty mood of      f
yours may breed an eternal breach of friend.    t
ship between us."
Stilletto's lynx eyes rested long upo the
philosopher's face, and  he relapsed into a    a
gloomy silence, during which he seemed to be
reflecting and weighing something in his mind I
with great attention.                           I
*       *      *       *      *
Mr. Paradise did. not lose an hour, nor did   I
he overlook the most trifling aspect of the de-
fense he had undertaken. Josephine had I
parted from him that Christmas-eve with grave 1
fears, and yet the hunchback, his heart moved
for once, had endeavored to reassure her,
rather than to lay the fullest stress upon the
dangers that threatened Montant. Before the
lawyer thought of his night's rest, he had
written several notes, intrusted to the parti-
cular care and despatch of Mr. Smiles, and in.
tended to summon immediately to his aid such
assistance as he knew, from his great expe.
rience, the affair demanded. One of these let-
ters was addressed to Mr. Stump, our old
friend and ex-detective; and sure enough, the
next morning, though it was Christmas-day,
the little man with the short hair and dump-
ling proportions, made his appearance in
Washington Square.
Mr. Paradise received him en deshabille, and
not in a very encouraging humor.
Paradise. "Stump, if you will see that the
next room is empty, and then lock the door of
it, I will talk to you."
Stump (obeying with alacrity). "Thank'ee,
sir."
Paradise. "Now, Stump, I hear that you
want to re-enter the secret service.
Stump. " Yes, sir. Being as I didn't agree
with the gentleman that owns my grocery, so.
he has now shut down on me, and shut up the
shop."
Paradise. "You mean you did not pay the
rent, you vagabond, and your landlord kicked
you out. Is that it ?"
Stump. " Just as you please sir."

120


FORTUNE.

Paradise. "And since you want to re-enter
the service, I suppose you would like me to
use my influence with -the police commission-
ers in your favor?"
Stump   (grinning  sweetly). "Indeed, I
would be proud of it, Gov'n'r."
Paradise (curtly). "We'll see. You know
a man by the name of Stilletto ?"
Stump. "Antony Staletoe ? I know him, as
if we'd been raised by one hand." ,
Paradise. "Have you read the evidence in
the Van Strom murder ?"
Stump. "No, sir."
Paradise. "Read it, then, while I finish my
toilet."
He handed the necessary papers over to the
little man, who read the affidavits quickly; but
with that prompt insight which he had acquired
in his profession.
Paradise. "What do you think of it ?".
Stump (rising to go). "Nothing."
Paradise. (amazed). "What do you mean,
sir?"
Stump (doggedly). "Nothing."
Paradise. "Explain yourself, or take the con-
sequences."
Stump. " I'll take the consequences, sir. I
said nothing.  I mean nothing, and NOTHR4G
will I have to do with this case."
Paradise. "For the last time, Why ?"
Stump. "Because Antony Staletoe is a
friend of mine, and if it's so as you want me
to dodge him, as I can see plain you want me
to, I'll say this. Police commissioners or no
police commissioners-sitoowation or no sitoo-
wation, I won't dodge a friend that's always
treated me square."
Paradise. "Stump, you are a sharp fellow
for guessing just what I want of you; but you
are obtuse in another direction."
Stump. "What does that word mean, sir."
Paradise. "It means that you have told me
something I did want to know-your opinion
of the case."
Stump (aghast). )"I expressed no opinion
of the case, sir."
Paradise. " You have as much as told me
that you think Antonio Stilletto murdered that
man, and that Judge Bates committed perjury
when he swore to, the alibi. What else made
you think of dodging Stilletto, and what
harm can you do your friend if he has done no
wrong ?"
Stump (admiringly). "You are the great-
est lawyer in the country, sir."
Paradise (disdainfully). " And since it pleases
me to employ you, and no one else but you, I
herewith assign to you all that interesting
work which consists in laying, spying, and
tale-telling, which- you call dodging your
friend."
Stump (very decidedly, and again rising to
go). " And I, sir, with all respect and regard
for you, must say I can't do it, and what's
more, I won't.
Paradise. "Stump ?"
Stump, " Sir."
Paradise. "How about Hobgoblin ?"
Stump. "About what? Ohf! you mean-"
Paradise. "Yes, I mean to refresh your
-memory a little on certain joint transactions

121

which you engaged in with that German
drunkard, Muller, and your friend Stilletto."
Mr. Stump looked first puzzled, then fright-
ened, and finally resumed his seat, demurely,
and looked foolish. Mr. Paradise proceeded to
do as he had promised, viz.-to recall to his
mind the fact that he had been connected with
Hobgoblin, in a manner which had better not
be inquired into (which the reader may re-
member was detailed in book I). When the
lawyer had proved that he had been remark-
ably well posted on that affair, and knowrL the
parts taken by Martin Bates, Muller, Stilletto,
and Stump, the latter gentleman looked crest-
fallen, but his admiration for the lawyer in-
creased.
Paradise (firmly). " And now, all I have
to say is that you will do as I bid you. I can
employ no regular detective, for I am afraid
Stilletto is sharp enough to penetrate any dis-
guise, while you are his friend, and besides,
quite sharp enough to manage it."
Stump (despondingly). "Well, sir, I'll do
it; but I swear it is the meanest, most sneak-
ing, villainous act of my whole life ! To dodge
a man's friend what he's borrowed money
fromI"
Paradise. "I'll pay you well for it, and we
Vill make the bargain as soon as you receive
1hy instructions. You must start for Boston
to-night."
Stump (meekly). "I'll do it, sir."
Paradise. " And you must look sharp."
Stump. "If I must do it, I'll do it well,
sir."
The day before the trial had arrived, and
Mr. Paradise was just preparing to leave New
York for the scene of action by the afternoon
train, when the door of his private office was
opened violently by a man, followed by the
astonished servant. The man was old and
bald, and bony, and breathless with haste. " I
came here on an inspiration," he gasped.
"Thank God I find you!"
Paradise (staring). "Martin Bates ?"
Martin. "Yes, and here is something of
more importance than old Martin Bates."
The lawyer glanced over the paper which
Martin handed him.    It was Simonetta's
letter, with a translation appended, to which
Paradise referred from time to time. His face
brightened.
Paradise. " Why there is more hope in this
than in all the eloquence of a Demosthenes !
Do you think she saw Stilletto about the time
of the murder?"
Martin. " I am certain of it."
Paradise. "Now sit down here and tell me
why you are certain of it. If we can upset
your brother's alibi, the whole case falls to
the ground, and Montant and Stilletto change
places. But hold on a moment, Stilletto is in {
town."
Martin. " Aha I Then we will want help at
the countess's to-night, or at least we will have
to play a sharp game if Stilletto happens to be
there."
Paradise..." So I think. I will send for
Stump at once. He is our man."


GOING AND SON.

CHAPTER V.
THE COUNTESS.
" fy hair does stand on end to hear her curses."
KING RICHARD III.
THEY were a queer couple, crouching close
to the large fireplace in the dance hall of the
Italian boarding-house.
And this was the countess, the ignoble
proprietress of the ignoble den, with a yellow
turban crowning her wrinkled wicked face, and
her vicious black eyes gleaming like will-o'-the-
wisps in a dangerous swamp.
And by her side, Stilletto, his demoniac
face unmasked of hypocrisy-that was useless
here-and yet not open and honest, for that it
could not be. The conversation was carried
on in Italian.
"Well, my son," said the countess.
" Hold on a momentI Do you know it has
often occurred to me that you are not so cer-
tain about this mother and son business !"
"Ain't I," chuckled the old hag. "A man
may never be sure that he has fathered a
child, but the mother that bore it-no mistake
there, sweetness."
"I can't say that I am proud of my ances-
tress, though you claim to be of noble family.
A nice place this, for aristocratic people," said
Stilletto, glancing around the room.
The dull light of the leaden day did not add
fascinations to the coarsely-painted walls or the
queer, many colored paper ornaments adorn-
ing the ceiling. There was that about the
room which reminds one of the seediness that
follows upon dissipation.
" Wait till the lamps are lit," said the coun-
tess, following his eyes, and noticing the im-
pression made upon him.
" Yes," answered Stilletto, with more truth
than grace, "the lamps will be lighted, but
to-morrow this same damnable shabbiness
will come out again and again and again, until
the rotten shanty falls to pieces, just like you,
my lovely mother !"
"Well, it's true," said the countess, with an
oath, "it does seem strange for Angelica,
Countess of Unkstein, to be what I am."
Stilletto did not appreciate the touch of
sentiment and remorse that spoke in her
words, and dejected tone. "Do you know,"
he cried, " that I have in some way lost that
sweet little autobiography of your lamented
husband ?"
" What ! the Maniac's Story ?"
" Yes, along with the copy of some letters
I wrote to my father. I must have dropped
them, some months ago, when I called upon
the honorable Judge in Massachusetts."
" You always were a careless, harum-scarum
dog !" said the countess, with more pride than
derision.
"No wonder I'm a dog, being born of a she
wolf."
"Don't say thatI By the Virgin! I shud-
der when I think of that crazy man in the
Black Forest, and read his half-reasonable
story." -
" You've led a queer life, mother !"

"Yes, yes. The difference between Baden.
Baden and the Fourth Ward is considerable!
I was a good enough girl when I first saw the
count. He was a sinister, half-cracked man
then, but he was rich. God help me forget the
years I spent at that castle in the Black
Forest. A dreary, lonely spot it was, a morose
half-spectral husband to make it lively, ha!
ha! Still I liked him well enough, and when,
on returning late one night from the hunt, he
recoiled from me as I met him at my door,
thinking, idiot that he was, I had turned into
a wolf-"
" Well, mother, I'll be cursed if you don't
look like one at times !"
" Do I ?" snarled the countess, showing her
teeth savagely.
" Don't !" shrieked Stilletto, in genuine
alarm. "You know I can't bear that look. I
don't blame the count for seeing the bloody
brute stick right out in you I"
"You damned, crazy vagabond !"
"Now, don't, and talk reasonably."
"What shall I talk about ?" asked the
countess, with a bitter expression on her
vicious face. "Shall I describe to you how I
was an innocent girl once? Shall I tell you
that I had a happy home and have experienced
the old story of virtue, love, sin, despair, all
in due rotation ? Would you like to know
how I became your mother? Well, after
the count died in the asylum, I had some
money and some respectability left. I met
your father, Eben Bates, who was making the
tour of the Continent to allow some British
scandal to grow cold in his absence. He left
me a wretch, dishonored and forsaken, expect-
ing to give birth to his child. That child
turned out to be a hideous monster. That
child was called Antonio Stiletto. After giving
you an education, and discovering that you
were a born vagabond, sharper, and thorough
scoundrel, I brought you to America to pester
your father, who had taken his wife to this side
of the sea to escape the consequences of his ac-
tions in England. What wonder that, in spite of
all the money you got from him, I found myself
as poor as a rat when my own money was
gone ! No wonder you allowed your mother
to sink down to this filthy profession, for you
are a dirty, greedy, cruel brute, and you know
it."
"Well, I suppose I am," conceded Stilletto,
soothingly.
" What villainies you have committed dur-
ing your travels and behind my back I can
never know, nor any one else, for a cur like
you will be a mystery to his own mother and
to the whole world forever. I wouldn't, be
surprised had you murdered Van Strom your-
self, you unconscionable, cold-blooded, hellish
dog !"
Stilletto had suddenly grown a sickly yel-
low.
"Don't say too much, mother," he cried. "I
have always helped you when I could, and
have often come to you for advice like a duti-
ful son; but I won't have such words as
those!i Mind-I'm dangerous if you rouse
me
" So is a cowardly, carrion-fed hyena; but

122


FORTUNE.

there is no fght .in him when he meets his
master. Just try to bite me, you-"
" Hold-I say ! I have made up my mind
not to get mad, but don't tempt me ! Let us
be friends, mother, and tell me how to act at
that trial to-morrow. Come, come, I'll treat to
a bottle of wine if you'll be reasonable."
The countess relented, and after she had
filled the glasses, threw one dirty-stockinged,
slip-shod foot over the other, leaned back in
her chair, and said, affably,-
" After all, I have some pride in you, and
if you tell me all about your scrape, I'll tell
you what to do."
"In the first place, where is this girl Simo-
netta ?"
" What's that to you ?"
" I want to see her."
"What for?   Isn't it enough that you se-
duced her, then kept her from marrying that
good old fool Martin Bates, and then got her
into-God knows what scrapes, down in Mas-
sachusetts ?"
4 This is a tender spot in your shriveled old
heart, mother."
"Yes-and it always will be. Look through
this ward; see the drunken dogs and sluts,
the thieves, murderers, and scabby reprobates
of all kinds, and I'll tell you something the
police don't know, and the charity folk don't
dream of. They all have a tender spot. Now,
then, my tender spot is that girl."
"Damn her !"
" That's a blessing on her," said the count-
ess, almost devoutly, and her face assumed a
kind, half-tender expression. " She was poor
when I first know her. Her father, the or-
gan-grinder, was a servant in our house in
Italy, long, long ago. He lived next door
here, and when he died, I took her entirely
under my protection."
"A nice protection," sneered Stilletto. "I
had a hand in it, mother."
"So many more curses, on you, then-but
that is passed. You have ruined her and
prevented that marriage-"
" Martin Bates is a thief; but I suppose
that's what you looked for in your darling's
husband."
" Thief or no thief, he is a kind-hearted
man."
" Enough of him. Where is. she ?"
"What do you want of her ?"
" I want to make sure that she won't turn
against me to-morrow."
"Ha! ha ! ha !" laughed the hag, with such
demoniac glee that Stilletto shuddered.
-" What are you laughing at ?"
"Because, fool that you are, you have let
out that she can turn against you if she wants
to! So you're in a scrape about that trial, are
you, my precious chick ? How smart to tell
me so!"
" Mother ! or, rather, hellish old hussy that
you are-"
"Ware I" she cried, flaring up. " Though
they call me the countess, only as anickname,
I have more power than many a duchess ! I
am queen in this-neighborhood, and I won't be
the first queen that saw her son hanged for
insulting herI"

123

"Where is she ?" demanded Stilletto, livid
and trembling with rage.
" I won't tell you!"
"So you know?"
"Yes, and she's safe from you."
"Don't go too far," said he, hoarsely, ad-
vancing toward her.
"None of those looks. They won't do here!"
cried the countess. She drew a dirk and re-
treated a step in defense. At the same time
she stamped upon the floor, and in an instant
Stilletto saw a vicious, dogged fellow by his
side, whose broad shoulders and dangerous eye
told him that he was foiled.
" Ha! ha! ha !" again laughed the countess,
with a more hideously, shrill voice than ever.
" Your tricks won't do here, my pet. Teach
your own mother to play points, hey?  Get
out you white-livered,black-souled,ill-begotten,
murderous hound, or you'll be sorry for it I"
" You'll suffer for this if that girl comes to
the trial to-morrow," snarled Stilletto, and left
the house in impotent wrath.
* -    *      *      *      *
The lamps were illuminating the flimsy or-
naments of the dance-hall, and shedding an
artificial glare upon the painted faces of the
girls in short dresses as they hung around
listlessly awaiting the company which had not
yet arrived.
The shriveled old mistress of iniquity, the
countess, sat by the great fire and smoked a
cigarette. She was expecting some one with
a nervous agitation she strove to conceal.
When the old clock struck the hour viciously,
the expected visitors, punctual to the lain-
ute, entered. One was a withered old man,
in a shabby coat, his square features working
excitedly. We know him by the name of
Martin Bates. The other, a short, old gentle-
man with a flowing white beard, we can not
recognize but the countess sees through the
disguise in a moment.
" Mr. Stump," she says, quietly, in English,
"all them air masks of yourn are played!
That's what they be. Prayed1"
"Keep steady, melady," replied Mr. Stump,
"Keep steady to-night, and stand by us, or by
- you'll make an enemy o' mine, an' of all
Mulberry street besides."
"Where is the girl?  Where is Simonetta ?"
inquired Martin, hastily.
" What s that to you ?" retorted the woman,
sharply. " They don't want to hang you to-
morrow, do they ?"
"No; but I have determined to save the in-
nocent, at all. hazards; even should it cost a
brother's life, and I mean to leave no stone
unturned."
" A new character for Martin Bates,"
" Where is the girl ?" persisted he.
" In her stockin's, I s'pose!"
"Now, mistress melady, countess-" be-
gan Mr. Stump.
" Hold'your noise !" interrupted the mistress,
"or you will make me hold mine, that's all.
Before we go any further, I want to tell you
something, Martin Bates. You say that you
want to rescue the innocent, although it cost a
brother's life, or happiness, or virtue, or honor,
or what you may call all the cursed things.


GOING AND SON.

Now, what harm has that brother done to you
to make you act so ?"
"The harm that he has done to me is as
nothing-"
"But the harm he has done to me is some-
thing," interrupted the hag, viciously. "Do
you know who I am ?"
" No-but where is the -"
"Let me finish. I want you to know that
I'm a real countess, though my noble count did
go mad, and though I am more of a wolf than
some people might think if they read a certain
eloquent description of me, which he wrote in
a Dutch mad-house before he died."
" You don't mean to say-" cried Martin, in
astonishment.
"Well!"
" Are you-can you be the Countess of
Unkstein ?"
It was the hag's turn to be astonished.
" What do you know about Unkstein ?"
"I found a paper. Stilletto dropped it in
my brother's garden. I read it-can it be ?"
" Oh, you found the paper," said the count-
ess, again resuming  her disdainful tone.
" Give it back to me."
Martin had not allowed the paper to leave
his pocket, and he handed it over me-
chanically. As he did so he stepped close to
her. She looked up at him, and with a snarl,
showed him her teeth. He recoiled, terrified,
and staring at her, cried,-
" I think the maniac was not all wrong !"
The countess laughed a peculiar chuckling
laugh, and said:-
"Now I'll tell you something else. If Eben
Bates is shown up as a perjurer, lie is a broken
man. You lose a brother, I lose a lover ;" and
again she laughed in a manner resembling the
bark of a dog.
" What!1 are you- ?"
"Yes, I am."
" I begin to see the truth ! You are the
same countess with whom my brother had an
intrigue on the continent, thirty years ago,
and-but what else are you, for heaven's
sake ?"
"Stilletto's mother," she said, quietly.
" And you have set him on to extort money
from his father?" cried Martin, fiercely.
"Just so."
" And you are the torturer that tormented
him till he left the path of honor and virtue,
and became what he is ?"
"Yes, my dear."
"You have been the evil spirit of his life,
working through the instrumentality of his
bastard son," continued Martin, livid with
rage, becoming more and more excited by his
own invective and her cool replies. "You are
the ugly, foul nightmare, that has banished
sleep from him, and you have poisoned his life
until it became saturated with the pestilence
of your own black soul."
" Don't talk so loud, brother-in-law; the
girls will hear you," replied the countess,
lighting a fresh cigarette.
"You have distressed and harassed him,
driven him to despair. Look at the result,
you-hellish slut!"
" I'm looken at it," said the countess, with

a yawn, crossing her legs, as she leaned back
in her chair." I'm looken at it; and I say, he
hasn't come down enough yet.    So well
bring him down to-morrow. He has brought
me to what I am."
"A lump of filthI"
"Exactly; and that's what he has got to
come to before we are even. Blood for blood
you know, brother-in-law."
" Don't call me by that name again," cried
Martin, beside himself with fury.
" Why hear thisI Because Eben did not
marry me, as he promised he would, is that
any reason why you are not my brother-in-law
Martin, dear?"
"Well, call me what you like. You have
dragged me, too, down to destruction. Do you
know that I stole money to help Eben in his
troubles, and that my perdition is on your
soul,-if you have any ?"
" Well, if it was'nt, it would be on some one
else's! Nobody can tell me that a man'llsteal
unless it's in him/1"
" Enough of such plagues as you I" cried
Martin. "I'll not go to the trial to-morrow.
Let the innocent suffer, but you shall not suc-
ceed in your designs against my brother."
" Allow me," said Mr. Stump, "allow me, in
a mild way, to interrupt this much interestin'
and piuss confabulation. May I ask your lady.
ship how it is as you knows so much about
this 'ere murder, and about the honorable
judge's lying perjury ?"
"I'd as lief tell you," said the countess,
languidly. "Simonetta has told me more than
both of you, and all the lawyers in the land,
know. You only guess, while I know all about
it."
"So she has broken the awful vow about
which she wrote me ?" queried Martin.
" I made her do it. I got a priest to absolve
her, for ten dollars, and spent the money
willingly. I might as well have been there, so
well am [ posted on all that happened. The
girl saw my dear boy just about the time that
the crazy Van Strom was killed, so this Stil-
letto, son of mine, was not at his father's house
that afternoon. You may draw your own con-
clusions."
"But this will bring your son-your own
son -to the gallows," cried Martin.
"He's been a disobedient, burdensome,
white-livered whelp; so I've about concluded
to let the father hang the son, and the son
send the father to State's prison or suicide, I
don't care which. I am sick of the whole
tribe."
" Can you expect mercy in heaven ?"
"Leave me alone," she replied, with more
animation. "A queer story might be told of
how I changed from an innocent girl, in an
Italian home, to the old hag, keeping the lowest
den in New York. But the story has all hap-
pened, the change has taken place, and damn
all those that helped to kick me down."
" Oh, God !" murmured Martin Bates, "canst
Thou look upon such as these and not blush
at thy handiwork !"
" Don't blarstpheematize," admonished, Mr.
Stump, shocked at Martin's ejaculation.
" But to come to business," said the coun-

1


FORTUNE.

tess, in a whisper. "My son, Stilletto, Mar-
tin's precious nephew, paid me a visit this
afternoon. He seemed afraid of the girl-lie
tried to get at her through me."
" Did he succeed ?"
" No: I love that girl."
"Where is she ?" again, asked Martin, en-
treatingly.
" Up-stairs. I am afraid to let her come
down, for. I'm never sure of my dear son's
whereabouts."
"I'll take care of her," said Mr. Stump,
with the majesty reflected from the law.
"I have ten men outside. We'll see her all
safe."     -
" After all, the police is a great institution,"
cried the countess. " But ain't it queer that
the life of that gentleman, who is accused of
the murder, should be saved just because a
creature like me wants revenge upon a son
and that son's father! Is that the way inno-
cence should be saved ?"
" No,' replied Mr. Stump, blandly ; "inno-
cence in this case is saved by the circumspec-
tion of-"
"God," said old Martin Bates, fervently.
"Of the Police," corrected Mr. Stump, and
then he added with some heartiness,-" I have
not been an officer all my life for nothing,
Missus Countess, and I see that I can trust
you. Now there is a lawyer by name of Pary-
dise up town that is the shrewdest man born.
He has paid enough to surround this 'ere
house of yours with picked men, and not a
mouse can leave it nohow, without that mouse is
diskivert. Now you know the ward police all
know this Netty Merino, and in case she ain't
produced, we'll have her out by force. I
never axed you where she was, did I? Why?
'cause I knowed she was here. I never meant
to go up town to watch for my friend Staletoe.
Why? 'cause he started for Bostin four hours
ago. Now, then, I have told you all about it
because I think I can trust you, and I've
throwed off all disguise, and here I be a tellin'
the truth for oncet."
" But suppose she refuses to go with you ?"
asked the countess, ill-pleased.
" We'd kidnap her and gag her, and make
her go, though it cost Mister Parydise a thou-
sand dollars damiges-or five thousand."
" And suppose I hadn't make her break her
oath ?"
" Put her on that air witness stand, and put
old Parydise in front of her, and I'll bet my
bottom dollar he'll worm the oaths all out of her
like your picken the seeds out of an Eyetalian
orange with a sharp blade."
Not unimpressed by this glowing account
of Mr. Paradise's talents, the countess said,
after a pause,-  .
"Well, you'll have her for a witness any
how, and she'll speak fair and full what she
knows."
" So although your highness has fussilotated
things," said Mr. Stump, in all the dignity of
a big word, " still the rescue of the blameless
ain't no result of your stubborn vengeance
and bloodthirsty spirrut."
"For which God be praised," said Martin,
devoutly.

125

CHAPTER VI.
THE TRIAL.
"Heaven is above all yet: There sits a judge
That no king can corrupt I"
KING HENRY VIII.
" I do beseech you,
Make no more offers, use no further means,
But with all brief and plain conveniency,
Let me have judgment,"
MERCHANT o VENICE.
THIs is not a Pickwickian scene. Intelligence
speaks in almost every face of the assem-
blage which throngs the entrance and the pas-
sage of the court-house ; while the confined
space of the modest little court-room is
crowded almost to suffocation. We are not in
London, where a quaint originality must be
employed by an author, to cover the absolute
stupidity of the mob, to hide the absence of
real intelligence by depicting a humorous in-
dividuality.
But we are in the State of Massachusetts,
and despite the fanaticism which characterizes
it as a community, one need only glance at
the calm, sharp faces of those twelve jurymen
to be satisfied that he would rather submit
his case to them than to be judged by twelve
peers of England, for here we can recognize
acuteness and integrity of mind without pre-
judice.
The judge wears no wig, and sleep is far
from his thoughts. He is humble enough to
be zealous in his work, he is bold enough to
be honest ; and yet he is only a simple country-
man, with an education barely sufficient, and
with only as much dignity as his own merits
and his position inspire. What he lacks in
idle pomposity he makes up by mother-wit,
and his fidelity to the cause of justice, has
acquired for him a modest but solid reputa-
tion in his limited sphere of action.
Here comes the prisoner, at whose sight
there ensues that awful silence in the court-
room, which is a dumb plaudit suited to the
occasion. Some experience a sensation as if
the eralvat were too tight, others feel their
hearts cease beating, all are impressed by the
situation of the man who attracts so much at-
tention, and yet not greeted by one friendly
face in all that crowd, who stare upon him as
it were 'with a thousand basilisk eyes.
This is the first act of that drama of real
death, at the close of which, instead of drop-
ping an innocent curtain, they often drop the
body of the star actor in a manner rather dis-
agreeable to him, though it hands his name
down to the admiration of impressible school-
boys and ambitious criminals.
Ernest Montant looked pale, but not agi-
tated. He had been hard at work with
his counsel, preparing for the defense, and al-
though he knew his danger, he was more en-
grossed in his efforts to save himself, than
haunted by fears of the result.
When Mr. Paradise entered the court-room,
he created a peculiar sensation. "This is the
great New York lawyer," was whispered
through the audience, and the intelligence of
his marked features, and the brightness of his


GOING AND SON.

eyes received a dumb tribute from these rus-
tics while pity prevented the derision his
deformity might otherwise have excited.
The court being duly opened, and the case
called, Mr. Paradise immediately stepped to
the judge's bench, and said in a low, clear
voice.
" It becomes necessary for me to ask your
honor for a postponement of the trial until to-
morrow. We are not yet quite ready."
A murmur of disapprobation ran through
the audience which so increased as to compel
the judge to call them to order, and threaten
to have the room cleared if the court was to
be interrupted in this manner.
The district attorney, a fine-looking man,
with a large head and a deep voice, arose and
said,-
" I beg to remind your honor that we have
already consented to previous postponements.
We can not understand why the defense
should thus abuse the leniency of the court."
"Upon what grounds do you request this
postponement, Mr. Paradise ?" asked the
judge. "Haven't you procured all your wit-
nesses yet ?"
"Our witnesses are here; but my associ-
ates and I have not had the time to consult
sufficiently. You know my practice is not a
small one-"
"I am afraid Mr. Paradise has not found
this defense a very delightful undertaking I"
cried the district attorney, with a sneer.
" Am I to be interrupted in this discourteous
manner?" asked Mr. Paradise, warming.
" We mean to treat you with all due cour-
tesy," answered the judge, "and we do not
forget your extensive practice and pressing
occupations; but I must decide that you have
had ample time to prepare, and I can not
grant the postponement unless you have other
reasons for asking it."
For a moment Mr. Paradise seemed to hesi-
tate, and then begged leave to consult with
his client and his associates. After a few
whispered words, the prisoner shook his head
resolutely, and the lawyer said, turning to the
judge,-
" We have no other grounds for a delay,
and since your honor has overruled them, I
suppose we must say that we are ready."
" Go on, then," said the judge.
An irrepressible though faint murmur of
applause ran through the room. A celebrated
lawyer from New York is always at a disad-
'antage in country courts, for every one
thinks that he is trying to control matters and
despises the provincial institutions. It is
therefore a satisfaction to the jury and all
present, if the judge puts down some celebrity
from the metropolis, and Paradise glancing
around him, knew full well that the case had
opened badly for him so far.
After the clerk had read the indictment, by
which the people of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, on complaint of Bella Van
Strom, accused Ernest Montant, of London,
England, and late of New York, of the murder
of John Jacob Van Strom, end the prisoner
had put in a plea of "Not guilty," the district
attorney, amidst breathless silence and univer-

sal straining of eyes, necks, and ears, opened
the case for the prosecution.
This was a peculiar case (as it generally is),
and bearing within its issues the bringing to
justice of one who had committed the most
heinous crime known to social laws or to
God's records of human depravity. This pe.
culiarity would be found in the action of the
prisoner at the bar, who, when first the foul
deed was discovered, when the bleeding body
of his wretched victim was brought to light,
with barefaced villainy, accused another and
an innocent man of the awful deed. That man
was then arrested upon the false affidavits of
the real culprit, but fortune, who protects
the innocent, had directed his footsteps to
the residence of one of our most respected
citizens where he peacefully remained during
the time when the murder must have been
committed. That honored citizen, our vener-
able friend and colleague, Judge Eben Bates,
by his testimony, proved so clearly a case of
alibi, that the wrongly-accused was discharg-
ed immediately and stands now in this room,
ready to bring forth crushing evidence in just
defense of himself and to the certain doom of
the prisoner at the bar. Although he (the
district attorney) might dwell longer on the
forthcoming evidence, he found it so clear,
and if he might be allowed to say it, so easy
a case, that he would yield the floor at once
to the witnesses, who would speedily consum-
mate the prisoner's conviction and brand him
with the disgraceful mark of perjurer, for hav-
ing borne false witness against his neighbor
to hide his own guilt. His own guilt, gentle-
men of the jury, which will shortly be made
as clear to the abhorrent sight of man as it is
clear at this moment to the frowning eye of
God (which was telling).
Mr Paradise now arose to admit, without
necessitating superfluous evidence, that the
deceased had come to his death by violence,
and that the dagger found buried in his breast
was the instrument by which death had been
caused at the hand of the murderer. After
examining witnesses of purely technical im-
portance, the prosecution called Bella Van
Strom.
Disdaining to retain her veil, the witness
told the court and the jury in a resolute, dis-
passionate way, that her deceased husband
and the prisoner had been great friends at one
time, but that serious altercations had taken
place between them shortly before the murder.
Also, that the deceased had made a will, be-
queathing half of his estate to witness, the
other half to Josephine Van Strom, his sister-
in-law, to whom the prisoner was engaged to
be married, appointing the prisoner trustee
and executor of the whole estate. That, sub-
sequently, deceased had altered this will, dis-
inheriting Josephine Van Strom, and taking
from the prisoner the trusteeship. That,
finally, and principally at the instigation of
witness, deceased had again changed the will
in favor of Josephine and the prisoner, and
that this final will was made and filed, to the
knowledge of the prisoner, on the very day of
the murder.
Here the district attorney put the question'

120


FORTUNE.

" Was not your husband's mind of that
wavering, unsettled character, that, in your
opinion, the prisoner had reason to fear lest
deceased might again revoke the will at some
future day?"
Mr. Paradise objected to the question. The
court, after some pleading, sustained the ques-
tion, and Bella answered:--
" Undoubtedly."
Mr. Paradise bit his lips. After fruitless
cross-examination, during which Bella remain-
ed imperturbable and entirely impassionate,
the prosecution called Antonio Stilletto. The
Italian's under-lip quivered so violently that he
could scarcely articulate his answers to the
questions put. It seemed to require an effort
whenever he raised his eyes, and when he
succeeded there was a malicious and bold impu-
dence in them which resembled the desperate
courage of falsehood more than the serenity
of truth. Mr. Paradise never took his piercing
eyes from him, and the prisoner, who hereto-
fore had kept his glance quietly lowered, look-
ed full into the face of this witness. Although
Stilletto occasionally presented a bold face to
the district attorney, judge, and jury, he found
it inconvenient to stand this double tire of
searching glances, the one suspicious and
threatening, the other bitterly reproachful and
indignant.
Mr. Stilletto repeated boldly what he had
already sworn to in his written affidavit, and
so terribly telling was his testimony against
the prisoner, that the triumphant face of the
district attorney, and the loud mutterings
around the room compelling the judge to en-
force silence, showed Mr. Paradise very clearly
that there was no sympathy for his client in
that audience. After Mr. Paradise had made
the best of a fruitless cross-examination use-
lessly hurledCagainst the brazen consistency'
of the witnes ,a lawyer residing in the village,
to whose lodging John had driven on the last
day of his -life, was placed in the witness-
box.
He had drawn up the last will of the de-
ceased, and could testify that the prisoner was
cognizant of its provisions, which reinstated
him as trustee and again bequeathed half of
the estate to prisoner's betrothed wife, Joseph-
ine Van Strom. But the most important point
to which he deposed, was that he had been
present when prisoner and deceased entered
the wagon to return to Van Strom's house.
Deceased handed prisoner a dagger, with the
words-"You had better carry this. It is
.near dark, and if we are stopped, you are bet-
ter able to use it than I."
" Can you swear that it was the same dag-
ger which is now in court?" asked Mr. Para-
dise. The witness could not swear that it was,
but thought it was the same.
" Leave your opinions at home," said the
hunchback, angrily.
" Not at all," interrupted the district attor-
ney. "Opinions regarding ocular observations
are admissible as evidence."
" There is no proof that the daggers are
identical," said Mr. Paradise, " and I beg your
honor and the gentlemen of the jury, not to
forget this flaw in the prosecution."

127

The district attorney begged the privilege
of recalling Bella Van Strom, and she identi-
fied the dagger in court as that which her hus-
had taken with him when he left the house
before the murder.
"Now   then," said the district attorney,
with a bow, " I am only surprised that so
eminent a lawyer should advance such trifling
quibbles in court. Here we have proof that
the dagger which deceased took with him is
identical with that which pierced his heart,
Here again we have proof that deceased, half
an hour before the murder was committed,
handed a dagger to the only man known to
have been present at the time of the murder.
Is this enough ?"
"pNo," said Mr. Paradise; "fbr the prisoner
had another dagger, unspotted by blood, in his
possession a few moments after the murder.
This was the dagger which deceased handed
him at the village, and that which Van Strom
originally took with him, and which is now in
court, he must have exchanged for the one
which he gave to the prisoner. This is the
theory which makes proof impossible "
"It is too thin, Mr. P.," said the district
attorney, sneeringly. "This theory of yours
is indeed too thin."
" We will see how thin it is when we got
well into the defense," replied Mr. Paradise ;
but he knew, as well as every one present, that
the prosecution had as strong a case as can
well be made of circumstantial evidence ; and
all hope seemed lost.
Mr. Paradise glanced nervously to the door,
and consulted his watch repeatedly before he
opened for the defense. He knew what the
impatience on all faces around meant. He
knew that judge and jury had already con-
demned his client; but it was now his object
to protract the trial, for what purpose we shall
soon see, and he made a long and able speech.
In the first place, he said, that he would
admit the motive for the murder, just as he or
any one else must admit the occurrence of mil-
lions of similar temptations in life; but he
meant to bring witnesses who would testify
so strongly to the prisoner's good character
that it would appear self-evident how far even
the thought of a dastardly crime must have
been from his mind.
Secondly, it was his purpose to show that
Stilletto was a liar, a villain, and a perjurer, a
vagabond adventurer living on his wits, and a
perfectly reckless man ; and that this was a
conspiracy against the innocent, a vile scheme
to exculpate the real murderer. Mr. Paradise
had taken a bold stand, and he would have
met derision at every turn had not his 'elo-
quence, his power of mind and will made a
deep impression upon his hearers. The judge
grew nervous, the jury opened their eyes
wider, and the audience strained every sense
to hear and understand.
"Your honor," said the hunchback, " I repeat
that I mean to show this Stilletto to be a per-
jured scoundrel, a vagabond, and a villain well
known in New York, and I advise the sheriff
to keep his eye on him, for he will be wanted
very much, when this trial is closed, and I amn
sure he will not be here then if he is allowed


GOING AND SON.

a chance to escape." Under the spell of the
hunchback's eloquence, the sheriff actually
sent his deputy to find Stilletto; but he had
already vanished.
Mr. Paradise continued:
" I mean to show that his testimony, which
is the main reliance of the learned district at-
torney, is false-false as malice can dictate,
false as cunning can invent, false as brazen de-
ceit can utter, false as the fiend of hell, backed
up by all his hellish array, could make it, if he
stood in the place of that vile man."
Then followed a sketch of the incidents of
that day, with all of which the reader is famil-
iar, and showed from them, and the position of
the wagon, horse, and corpse, that a third party
must have been engaged in the deed, so that
the assertion that the prisoner was the only
man known to have been present, fails of sig-
nificance.
" By what witnesses do you mean to assail
Stilletto's character so as to cast doubts on his
testimony?" asked the district attorney.
" If I can not do it, sir, my case is a weak
one," replied Mr. Paradise, confidently.
"I understand that you have subpoenaed
Judge Bates," said the district attorney.
" I have."
The first witness called for the defense now
made his way to the box. He was an old gentle-
man, with an air of dignity and refinement
that commanded attention and respect.
"What is your name ?" asked Mr. Paradise.
" Charles William Going."
- " You reside in New York ?"
"Yes, sir."
"And what is your business ?"
" A merchant, sir."
"Do you know the prisoner at the bar ?"
"I know him very well." And then fol-
lowed a brief account of our hero's parentage,
standing and character, which caused all pres-
ent to feel a new interest in the accused.
The impression left by the district attorney,
when he pronounced the words, "this is my
case," began to change, and the general idea
that the prisoner's doom was sealed, gave way
to a doubt which increased the excitement and
created a feeling of sympathy for our hero.
When Mr. Going left the stand, and in an un-
ostentatious but hearty manner, shook hands
with Montant, the change in the countenances
of the jury did not esegpe Mr. Paradise, but
he knew better than they, that what had been
gained was but the result of his own talents
and favorable appearances; he knew that in
reality his case was as desperate as ever, and
that unless he could make good his bold as-
sertions about Stilletto's bad character and
perjury-all these outward signs of a favor-
able turn would melt under the rigor of the
law. Again did he consult his watch, and
great impatience seemed to possess him. He
glanced at his client, and something like sym-
pathy softened his features. He whispered to
his associates and his impatience increased to
trepidation. At this moment Eben Bates was
called, and as he stepped into the box every
eye in the room was charmed by his noble
and commanding presence ; the intelligence in
his face, and the dignity, more pompous than

that of Mr. Going, which characterized the
man from his venerable locks to his firm
planted feet. He was universally known, and
everywhere respected. The tongue of suspi.
cion had never dared to assail his good name, and
he was credited with every trait of character
which belongs to a noble, pious, highly culti-
vated gentleman. He had sat on the judge's.
bench many a year, and he fully understood
the importance of a case like this. He looked
more like the judge than a witness, and at his
presence a hush of involuntary homage fell
upon the audience, two only excepted. One
was - Mr. Paradise, whose eyes were now
kindled and his nostrils expanded, scenting
his prey. He knew that the turning point of
the case had arrived. From Ernest Montant
he had learned the judge's history, and the
prisoner himself now lifted his piercing gaze,
full of anger and loathing, to that of the proud
witness. The old judge caught his glance
only once, and then quailed before him and
turned deadly pale.
" Your honor," said Mr. Paradise, " I would
respectfully request you to admonish this
witness against the crime of perjury. I may
as well here intimate that I know all his
secrets, and that it would be unpleasant for
him should I reveal them."
The district attorney rose angrily, but was
involuntarily checked by the change in Eben's
face. Already pale, it became livid, the quiv-
ering of its muscles changed all its dignity into
miserable fear, but he recovered himself so
quickly, that probably no one but the two
lawyers noticed it.
" Hold," cried the old judge, in a loud, clear
voice, waving his hand majestically ; "my
learned friend, the district attorney, must per-
mit me to speak for myself. I am here as a
witness only, but I know the law, and I pro-
test against counsel attempting to intimidate
any witness by subtle threats. Another word
of that sort to me, Mr. Paradise, and I shall
not open my lips again. I defy the court,
with all proper respect, to compel me to testify
under such circumstances I"
He well knew whom he was addressing,
Every eye flashed with indignation against the
hunchback ; and as he called on the support of
the audience, by a look which contained whole
volumes, and with a gesture that waved the
judge out of existence, Eben read assurance
in the thousand recognizing and sympathizing
faces which his fiery eye encountered.
"Your honor," he continued, proudly, turn-
ing towards the judge, "shall I be respected
in this court, or shall I leave the stand?"
"Mr. Paradise," said the judge, frowning,
"I can not allow browbeating in this court.
If you design to coerce this witness, by threat-
ening the exposure of such matters as belong
to a man's sacred privacy, you must be warned
to desist from such practice or lose your
witness."
Mr. Paradise made a wicked bow, and
sneered sardonically. Then he put the ques-
tion, plumply,-
"Judge Bates, was Stilletto at your hens.
at the time the murder was committed ?"
The district attorney objected. He saw no

128


FORTUNE.

sense in losing time by' compelling witnesses
to reiterate what they had previously sworn
to in written affidavits, as long as such ques.
tions were entirely irrelevant.
"The question is not irrelevant," said Mr.
Paradise. "1I want to impugn Stilletto's evi-
dence against the prisoner.  To that end I
must catch him in a previous falsehood."
The district attorney answered the argu-
ment, the hunchback replied, and both held
their original positions with great tenacity ;
finally Mr. Paradise, who saw the disadvan-
tageous position he occupied, warmed up
into such power and eloquence, that every one
listened in wonder.
Suddenly the lawyer ceased in the midst of
his powerful address in support of the question
to witness, and his face relaxed into a joyous
expression of great satisfaction, as his sharp
eyes espied two persons who were forcing
their way through the packed audience.
During this sudden pause, Judge Bates
gathered all his strength. Advancing one
foot firmly, he held his head haughtily erect,
one hand was uplifted solemnly, his features
although bleached by some deadly agitation,
were firm set and terribly resolute, his flash-
ing eyes seat fear into the hearts of those that
confronted him, and his commanding voice
rose high above the tumult occasioned by
the persistency of those new comers to reach
the front.
"I will cut short this disgraceful quibble
and answer the question voluntarily. Antonio
Stilletto was at my house at the time when
the murder must have been committed."
Instantly the prisoner sprang up. His face,
hitherto calm and resolute, showed a rage that
knew no bounds.
"Eben Bates," he cried, beside himself, and
his voice rang in every heart. " Eben Bates,
you lie ! and I call upon God this moment
that he may strike to the ground that one of
us two which has dared to call on Him to wit-
ness a falsehood I"
For a moment the old judge shook with a
passion which seemed equal to crushing the
world. With clenched fists and quivering lips
he was about to hurl defiance at the unex-
pected voice that had so indecorously inter-
rupted proceedings, when suddenly a change
came over him. As if his heart's pulsations
had failed him in the moment of need, as if an
electric shock had unnerved him, as if a spel
of witchery had fettered his utterance and
shattered his frame ; like a tiger who receives
the deadly bullet in the moment of his leap
like a ship which strikes the jagged rock, just
as it is rising proudly to master another billow
thus as if God had already heard the voice of
the prisoner at the bar, and in answer had
sent a thunderbolt to crush the perjurer-he
faltered, staggered, and staring as though his
eyes would burst from their sockets, was
speechless, paralyzed. His brother Martin
stood before him!/
His brother Martin-in whose glowing eyes
he read what soon must be heard by the whole
world. His brother Martin-in whose face ha
saw the determination which knew no mercy
andtoldhinztoo plainly to need words: "Murdei
.

129

breaks all bonds. I am your brother no
longer, but your accuser only."
The Italian girl stood beside him. Her face
wild with excitement, she commenced to speak.
Eben knew every word before she articulated
a syllable. With the power that comes to us
in such moments, God alone knows whence,
he read in the souls, of these two new witnesses
his inevitable fate. One glance at the faces
around him where singular confusion prevailed,
a second of time passed (it seemed an age) in
which he heard the judge calling order, saw
Martin uplifting one lean and withered hand
toward him, heard Simonetta's shrieking
speech, and he cried in a voice which re-echoed
in the breast of every hearer for years after-
ward,-
" Iconfess my perjury!/ Stiletto was not at
my house!/ He is the murderer!"
And like an oak struck by the flaming
arrow of Heaven, filled by the angel of ven-
geance sent by God in answer to the prisoner's
cry, he sank to the floor a shattered, lifeless
wreck.
CHAPTER VII.
BELLA VAN STROM.
"The means that heaven's yield must be embraced
And not neglected."
KING TIICiAan II.
"'AND now that I have you, again," cried
Josephine, " let us sit together on this lounge,
by the cozy fire and tell me all about it."
"1I declare," said our- hero, not yet quite
clear from that bewilderment which follows a
great and sudden change of circumstances,
"I can hardly realize what has occurred."
"Tell me about the horrid trial, Ernest."
" Well, darling, after I had recovered from
the shock of being arrested, I looked my dan-
ger squarely in the face and made up my mind
that I could get out of it, so I put fear behind
3 me and began to think. Especially after Mr.
Paradise paid me a visit, I labored unceas-
ingly on my case, not only for my own deliver-
ance. but for Stilletto's conviction."
"Was not I right in. securing Paradise ?"
asked Josephine, proudly.
"I think no one could have defended me
l better than he."
" He must have been splendid at the trial"
cried Josephine, with enthusiasm.
" He made the best of a bad case, and cer-
t tainly it was bad enough until Martin Bates
and the Italian girl came in."
" I wish I had been there. I think it is a
I glorious thing to fight the battles of justice,
and I adore one who defends a friend I"
s    "Friendshipis not a predominant weakness
s in lawyers," interposed Montant, with a smile,
but he added very gravely: "I confess to a
feeling of great gratitude and warmth toward
s the man when I saw him confront the court
e in my behalf. Although it might have been
ea matter of cold business with him to me it
,bore a nobler aspect, and I shall not for-
rget it."

ly
yt
k
r
1 4
1,
i
lb
lic
1
I


GOING AND SON.

131

"Did you not feel terribly ashamed when
you entered the court?" asked Josephine.
"No: I felt very serious, as a man upon an
errand of life and death would feel. It is the
guilt that makes shame. But a shudder came
over me at one thought-"
"And what was that?"
"As I encountered the curious looks of the
audience, the stern face of the judge, and the
cold, searching row of countenances in the
jury box, a grim fancy presented itself to my
imagination. How, if at this moment I stood
here guilty instead of innocent ? I tell you
Josephine, the thought alone   made  me
shiver."
"But you were innocent-innocent, as I
could have told them without that cruel trial
had I been the judge!"'
" Still," continued Montant, "I knew my
danger, knew that Stilletto's testimony had to
be disproved, and evidence pointing to him as
the murderer had to be procured. And I tell
you, Josephine, when Eben Bates broke down
at the mere sight of his brother and accused
himself as well as Stilletto, I became
nearly overpowered.  From the gloom and
horror of standing as a murderer before the
world, from the awful danger of an ignom.
inous death, I found myself in one brief
moment saved, and that by an enemy. I
was congratulated on all sides; my hands,
which just before they had abhorred as
blood-staimed, were shaken by a hundred
sudden friends, and my innocence was acknowl-
edged by acclamation."
" It must have been grand I Had I not pro-
mised Bella so faithfully to remain at home,
I should have been present in spite of her
advice and warning."
"Scarcely had the old man sunk, a senseless
heap, on the floor," continued Montant, with
animation, "than the Italian woman rushed
forward, and, after imprecating a volun.
tary but truly terrifying oath, declared that
she had seen Antonio Stilletto not half a mile
away from the place of the murder, about the
time that the crime was committed, and that
he was running at the top of his speed away
from the direction of the bridge. This, with
the old judge's self-accusation, made too clear
a case for doubt, and the jury returned a ver-
dict of ' not guilty' without leaving their seats.
God knows that those two words were music
to me. They brought me back to certainty
of life and honor unimpaired and my happy
mind reverted instantly to you I"
He took her to his heart with emotion, and
added, in a low, tender voice,--
"And although I positively knew my own
innocence, Who was it that stood by me-when
I was forsaken, and helpless, in prison, and
thought well of me while they were prepari g
to hand my name down to disgraceful oblivion?
Who watched for me, while Justice slept, and
never doubted, never lost faith in me? You
did this, Josephine. The woman I love, and
who loves me, did it all. God bless herI"
It was a solemn moment. A tribute paid by
a strong man to the noble loyalty of a woman.
She replied by assurances of unbounded fidelity
to his loving words of praise, while both felt

more confidence in the other from this inci.
dent.
" And is Stilletto in prison ?" asked Joseph-
ine.
'-No; he could not be found. He must have
escaped quietly when Martin Bates and the
Italian girl first approached the court-roon,
Paradise had given orders to the officers to
keep an eye upon him; but, he succeeded in
giving them the slip, though I don't understand
how, and he is gone."
"I don't like that," said Josephine, anx-
iously.
" I don't, either," replied Montant, gloomily.
At this moment the door opened noiselessly
and Bella Van Strom entered. Deep mourning
did not become her, and there was nothing
fascinating in her pale face. Still she bore an
air of calm refinement gained since her mar-
riage by contact with the educated world, and
not the result of her previous accomplishments.
$he had not seen our hero since the trial, and
Josephine' showed her apprehensions of an
embarassing scene by turning nervously to the
fire, and watching the flames with' marked
discomfort.
Montant immediately arose, and took the
proffered hand of Mrs. John Van Strom quite
calmly. Bella was equally undemonstrative,
and her speech showed more frankness and
honesty than warmth of feeling.
" I need hardly tell you, Mr. Montant. that
I congratulate you with sincerity upon the re-
sult of the trial."
"Allow me to thank you for your polite-
ness," answered our hero, with dignity. " Of
course my delight at the result is limited, be-
cause I at least could have had no doubt of my
ultimate delivery. You also are now convinced
of my innocence, and I thank you for bestow.
ing upon me the acknowledgment of my un-
blemished integrity."
Bella looked him straight in the eyes as she
rejoined, with imperturbable calmness, -
" The reproach contained in your speech is
no less pointed for being couched in delicate
language. Yet I can not say that I repent my
course of action in unflinchingly, perhaps in-
considerately, assisting justice in its stern pur-
suits. I stand before my husband's fresh-made
grave as his sole representative on earth, and
surely it becomes me to east away false deli-
cacy, and treat the whole world as my enemy
until an individual can be found to bear the
load of this monstrous guilt. That person
probably is now discovered; humanity has
again become human in my eyes, and my old-
time friends are now friends once more. If
you have candor enough to acknowledge that
I could not, like this loving heart, divine your
innocence and trust to it by inspiration, nor
did I accuse you blindly, as I did not blindly
acquit you-and if you can pardon me when I
make no apology for doing my duty without
fear of consequences, then let us shake hands
.honestly, and believe me that I am happy to
welcome you again to this house."
There was more warmth in her last words,
and her voice trembled somewhat. Josephine
arose, with moist eyes, and held out both her
soft hands to her sister-in-law, who took her in

130

her arms and kissed her affectionately. Yet, af-
ter good feeling had been restored, it was plain
to both of them that the newly-made widow had
altered. What mental changes were produced
by the terrible shock, what work a review of
her past life, accompanied by humiliation and
perhaps remorse, had accomplished, besides
the ravages of her great grief, let psycholo-
gists determine; but no longer was there any
of the sprightliness or vivacity, once so notice-
able in her manner; with her husband's death
the light within her soul had been extinguish-
ed, and she sat in the darkness of the tomb,
cold and emotionless as a statue.
"I wish to speak to you about a matter
which it becomes me to broach," said Bella,
after awhile. " I can imagine that both of
you intend to postpone your wedding, perhaps
for months, on account of me; but I must not
allow any such consideration. Life is so closely
interwoven with death, that we calculate in
vain upon any respite, even in the circle of our
nearest friends, from the dreadful monster.
Therefore, I consider it man's duty and wo-
man's wisdom to get married while they can,
and not wait until another summons may sever
you, perhaps, forever."
Josephine glanced timidly at her lover, who
said, quietly,-" You are perfectly right."
" Then, when shall it be, since'it seems that
I must arrange for you?" asked Bella.
"We will dutifully consider the question,"
answered our hero, "and report to-morrow.
There is one obstacle, though."
"What ?" cried Josephine, with a start.
" Until I have a business, 1 can not support
a wife."
"Such a scruple, it seems to me, is out of
place," said Bella. " You are sole executor of
our estate, are you not?"
"Yes; since my acquittal, I am restored to
that duty; that is, your lamented husband, at
my request, appointed Mr. Paradise my col-
league, to share the responsibility vith me."
" True !" said Bella. I had forgotten that.
At all events, our wealth is large; is it not,
Mr. Montant ?"
"I think," said Montant, with a strange hes-
itancy, which betrayed his aversion to the sub-
ject, " I think that the estate might safely be
estimated at a value of two millions of dollars.
For generations back, your husband's ancestors
habitually invested their surplus income in
real estate, in and around New York City.
This property has increased in value rapidly,
and prices are now advancing fabulously, so I
may venture the opinion, that, at no distant
day, the sum I have mentioned, as the present
cash value, will be largely increased."
" Then, why do you not devote your entire
time to the administration of this property ?"
asked Bella. " I suppose that the law allows
a trustee a sufficient percentage to insure you
a good living, and, in my ignorance of business,
I do not see what more lucrative pursuit a man
can follow, than taking care of a very rich
wife's property. I do not pretend to give any
advice; but since you intend to marry Joseph-
ine, you can not well leave her property be-
hind, and I can not see any cormmron sense inr
refusing to let well-enough alone. Our prop-.

erty requires some one's undivided attention,
and, were I in your place, I should be satisfied
with filling that post."
"I suppose I will have to come to it!1" said
Montant, not at all delighted with the pros-
pect.
"Really," cried Bella, "I am beginning to
lose all confidence in the wisdom of the strong-
er sex i They devote all their best energies
to the acquisition of money, and here I find
you accepting a million of dollars as if it were
a bitter pill, as hard to swallow as any sour-
faced druggist could make it I"
" You are right, Mrs. Van Strom, but there
is one thing you leave out of consideration. It
is manly pride ! It is not so much the posses.
sion as the making of wealth which delights
us! I came to this country poor enough to
accept, with thanks, the lowest situation that-
would gain me my daily bread, and suddenly,
from no merit of mine, from no work, no hard
struggle, I find myself with a million of dol-
lars on my hands. This wealth I receive from
a woman-a woman I love, it is true, but
whose care and support would make me a
happy and contented man. I now receive, as
a gift, what I intended to work for, and  my
ambition is gone, my strength wasted, and m'y
pride humbled !"
Josephine felt hurt at this strong language,
and it was not immediately that peace reigned
among the trio. She could not understand
how ie could aspire to any thing beyond her
love and the means to enjoy it in comfort and.
luxury. And she had plumed herself not a
little on being able to give him all this wealth,
and to say that he need not work and plan and
contrive and worry about "down town,"-
which phrase represented to her mind some
wonderful method by which ships, hogsheads,
and bales produced endless labor and sour
faces at home.
At this pause in the conversation, Bella's
thoughts reverted once more to her own at-
fairs, and the hard look settled again around
her expressive mouth.
" Mr. Montant, I would thank you to cause
a reward to be offered for the arrest of Anto-
nio Stilletto, the murderer of my husband."
h low much shall I make it ?  I suppose
we had better simply give notice to the de-
tective department in -New York. Money is
the oil to grease that machinery, and a reward
is the whetstone which sharpens a detective's
wits."
" Very well, how much shall we offer those
gentlemen ?"
"I would say, five thousand dollars," said
ho, after reflection. " It is a large amount;
but I think you desire me to advise you on
the safe side."
" Double it," said Bella, between her teeth.
"I can scarcely sanction that," ventured
our hero.
"Ten thousand is the reward," said Bella,
savagely.
" Bella!I" cried Josephine, approaching her
with an imploring gesture, "the wrong you
have suffered is great, the crime committed is
uappallimmg; but remember that God has brand-
ed revenge as a crime, that-"

FORTUNE.


132

GOING AND SON.

"I am not seeking revenge," interrupted
Bella. "Revenge and justice are as tar apart
as hatred from well-grounded aversion, steal-
ing from prudence, superstitious bigotry from
religion. The one is from heaven, the other
from hell. I seek but justice.-Ten thousand
is the reward, Mr. Montant I"
" As you wish."
When Bella had left the room, Josephine
burst into tears.
" Oh, she is so changed--so changedI Her
heart is not broken! It is worse, much worse;
it is turned into stone I"
Montant soothed and comforted her, and
they finally began discussing a secret and se-
rious affair-the name of Going &amp; Son was
mentioned, and a consultation followed about
some great things they intended to accom-
plish.
*      *      *      *      *      *
On a dismal, rainy, nasty day in March, Er-
nest Montant arrived, in a very bad humor, at
the New Haven railroad depot, in New York
City, from Boston. He was tired and hungry,
and, to add to his discomfort, he got wet
through before he had time to select the least
villainous-looking from among the hackdrivers,
who surrounded him like fierce hyenas fight-
ing for their prey. He directed the driver to
convey him to Delmonico's. At the sight of
the luxury, characterizing the place, he real-
ized, for the first time, that he had plenty of
money, and ordered a bottle of champagne
with his dinner, which extravagance .afforded
him neither pleasure nor remorse, and he sea-
soned his sumptuous repast with a train of
thought, not calculated to improve the flavor
of the fish or the condition of the Stilton.
" I suppose that I am a fool for not feeling
as happy as a king," he soliliquized, shoving
away an unoffending dish in a manner which
impressed the bland waiter with the idea that
" Monsieur is either an aristocrat or an upstart."
"As 1 look around me, I see care and anx-
iety peeping out on every face, in spite of the
assumed cheerfulness, while 1, suddenly raised
from a suspected murderer to the possessor
of a million of dollars, a lovely wife, excellent
health, untainted honor, and, on the whole, a
tolerably good conscience. What more is
there for me to covet ?"
Such questions he asked himself, and in-
stead of answering them, he reverted again
and again, like a woman, to the words, " And
yet I am not happy. What is there left for
my ambition? What pleasure can I expect
Trom labor during the smooth and luxurious
life I see before me. I will write," he mutter-
ed fiercely, as he dashed out the last of the
champagne into his glass. "I will become
an author or something of that sort. I could
begin as an editor and work my way up, I
know. Something I must have to aspire to
beyond mere good luck, for I am now at the
top of the wheel without having earned a
cent of my wealth, or really deserved a kiss
from my Venus."
Mr. Ernest Montant, you, too, have a skel-
eton in the house. You have a thought, a
desire, a secret hope. you would fain hide even
from yourself.

FORTUNE.

The contemplation of his own breast sought
utterance in the most distorted philosophy,
and rather than dwell upon and acknowledge to
himself the truth, he preferred a general
grumbling at all destiny had bestowed. lie
had come to New York, not only on important
business relative to the Van Strom estate, not
only to confer with Mr. Paradise, his co-ex-
ecutor, but also to pay a visit at a house in
Fifth Avenue, whither his heart drew him
irresistibly. He had not seen the old gentle.
man since the day of the trial, after which he
had returned home without giving Montant a
chance for a conversation. Things were not
improving with Going &amp; Son, the firm was
faring badly, very badly ; the world knew it
and Montant knew it, and Mr. Going was too
proud to seek the sympathy and consolation
of a man who had left him in the hour of
need, nor had made any advances since that
time.
Tlis very night he had determined to call
on his old friends. le lingered a full hour
over his coffee, and had a long argument with
himself. Perhaps the skeleton stood out in
bolder relief, warning him-perhaps his coin.
men sense gained the victory-at all events,
lie determined to wait a few days before grati.
fying himself with the promised visit, anld
suddenly called for pen, ink, and paper, and
wrote the following letter to Mrs. Bella Van
Strom:
"Although the result of our recent consul-
tation was a determination on my part, to
(kvote my whole time to the. adnuistrtio
of the estate, more mature considerations have
determined me to re-enter business. My rea-
sons you will readily dicern when you reflect
upon what you know of my character.-
'I desire to join the firm of my late employ-
ers-Messrs. Going &amp; Son-and it is my in-
tention to ask Josephine for a special capital
to invest in the house. If they are willing to
accept me, I shall examine the present stand-
ing .of the firm before concluding any arrange-
ment, because I would not willingly risk Jo.
sephins money. In the matter of deternin-
ing the safety of the investment, I feel perfect
confidence in my own ability and honesty of
purpose, and I write you on the subject be-
cause I desire your sanction of so important a
step, and because your approval and encourage-
ment would be a pledge of our future mutual
confidence and good understanding."
After finishing this letter, he wrote a long
epistle to Josephine, full of love and of his plan
to re-enter business as above mentioned.
After a few days he received a reply from
Josephine, in which, despite all the affection
and devotion therein contained, there was a
flavor he did not relish. She wrote that, of
course, she had no desire but to carry out he
part of his plans, no will but his-no arge -
ment other than his reasoning-but that
Bella had looked sour over his letter to her,
and hinted that it was not gratitude alone
which impelled him to come to the relief of
Messrs. Going &amp; Sen. TIe letter closed with
the assurance that the writer had no fear or
doubt of hrer lover, but it was not quite as

1 3

strongly worded as he could wish. What did
she mean? Was she jealous?     Could she
doubt him? Did the skeleton rattle its
bones?
On the same day he received the following-
lines from Bella :-
"SIR:-I will reply to your favor in a busi-
ness tone, for it was a business letter. I take
the liberty of saying that I do not sanction
your enterprise at all; but, on the contrary,
from what I know of the extravagance of a cer-
tain family, I have no confidence in the safety
of a certain firm. I trust that you will not
permit your judgment to be biassed by a grat-
itude, the causes for which I acknowledge
are not quite clear to my inexperienced mind,
and I respectfully inform you that, should
your resolution remain unchanged, and you
form new ties, I would prefer the whole es-
tate to be wound up as soon as possible, the
division made, and the control of my portion
be left to me alone.
" Before I close, and having said what I
had to say, I must assure you of more friend-
ship than these lines may convey at present.
"I remain, truly yours,
"BELLA VAN STRoM."
Montant read it twice, and pondered over
it contents for hours in a brown study, biting
his lips more than once.
CHAPTER    VIII.
SAVED.
"I am not of that feather to shake off
My friend when he most ide ne."
Tusos of ATIIENS.
His own resolve, alone, and contrary to such
advice as he had solicited, made him do it.
When matters connected with the estate
brought him back to spend a day in Massa-
chusetts, Josephine, in an interview which
marked their first difference of opinion, had
departed somewhat from the tone of her first
letter, and employed all her powers to dissuade
him from an alliance which she dreaded-why
she knew not, but she had said to him,---
"Take what money you choose, and help'
them, By so doing, you satisfy all the claims
of friendship and gratitude; but do not form
a connection which must more or less alienate
you from Bella certainly, and perhaps from
me."
" They can not take the money, unless I, my-
self, bring it into the firm," was the answer;
and his resolution remained unaltered. On his
return .to New York, he had consulted Mr.
Paradise, who said, with a sneer, that such
instances of gratitude were rare in the world,
and coolly added, that he would make an ass of
himself if he persisted.
So his own resolve alone made him do -it.
He approached the house. Uncertainty,
fear of a hundred things, had kept him from
making a visit sooner. They knew that he
was coming. A card, sent up by him during

the day, had advised them of his intention;
yet now, that it was evening, his mind fluc-
tuated between resolution and hesitancy.
"I know not why a strife seems to be going
on in my breast," he murmured, walking
faster. "Something tells me that I am about
to do the best action of my whole life, and yet
I have a foreboding of danger. Well, what
generosity dictates, and conscience sanctions,
can not be wrong, and nothing but cowardice
hinders its fulfillment." Again his thoughts
recurred to Josephine's view of the case, and
when the well-known house loomed up in his
sight, he experienced a sensation which did
not altogether contradict the lovely widow's
jealous uneasiness. " But what matters it
all?" soliloquized our hero, as he rang the
bell. "I shall marry Josephine next month,
and I do not see what difference it can make
if I happen to meet what I might call an old
fame ! Remote, indeed, from me, is any feel-
ing for Jessie Going, other than friendshipI"
In the meanwhile Miss Jessie Going waa alone
in the parlor, and she listened to every footstep
on the sidewalk. Her heart throbbed quicker
when some step approached the .house, and
when it had passed the door, to die away again,
relapsed into resigned patience. For many a
weary month this had been the first happy day
to her. That name on the card hid inspired
her with a hope, which must be referred to
intuition as a-cause, that the promised visit
might perhaps open the way through a recon-
ciliation between her father and our hero, to
the renewed acquisition of his inestimable (so
she thought) advice and assistance in her
father's business.  He was engaged to be
married. This she knew; but that made no
difference. Had she not told her father that
the girlish fancy she once betrayed had been
effaced by the serious, alt-absorbing struggles
which the family had undergone ? The feeling
which now made her listen to every sound in
the street, was nothing akin to love. Oh, no!
only friendship, and anxiety for her father.
But how could he assist-
Here the bell rang; with a smothered ex-
clamation, she sprang to her feet. The hall
door is opened by the servant, while Jessie
stands, holding her breath, and clasping her
hands, her composure gone, though she knew
it not.  She hears a familiar voice, and a
familiar tread approaches the parlor door.
She rushes forward, unconscious of her haste.
She beholds him coming rapidly toward her,
and a warm blush overspreading her beautiful
face, she holds out both hands to him, unable
to utter a word.
He has her hands in his; he sees the color
rising from her fluttering heart; he looks into
her eyes, moist with tears, and unstrung,
overpowered by the old influence of her pres-
ence, and by her emotion, which strikes home
to his heart's core, he presses her hand to his
lips, and then turning suddenly away, clenches
his fist, and bites his lips savagely. At the
movement, her color fled. What her face be-
trayed while his eyes were averted from her
he know not ; but when, after an immense
effort, he again turned to her, sire was pale,
and calm, and stately.


GOING AND SON.

"I am truly glad to see you, Mr. Montant,"
she said, and invited him to take a chair, by
seating herself with the air of a princess.
"What an absurdity it is in me," she quietly
thought to herself, "to get into such aflutter!
Did I not tell papa that he is no more than a
friend to me now? And I know I spoke the
truth when I said it !" But how now, Jessie
Going?
" This is contemptible in me," soliloquized
Ernest Montant, at the same time. "An en-
gaged man can greet a sweet friend without
acting first like a lover, and then like a fool,
I hope! There shall be no repetition of this
scene !" Are you certain of that Ernest Mon-
tant?
While both were holding these secret con-
versations, a few every-day commonplaces
passed between them to prevent embarrass-
ment, and Miss Going's father entered, and
shaking our hero by the hand, said, heartily,-
"So we have you back again at least for one
evening, you runaway! Welcome here, my
dear friend! Forgotten be the past, and the
future untroubled while we make the best of
the present."
Montant heard the voice with a pang. It
was not soafull and ringing as of old. Age
and sorrow had weakened its full vibration,
while furlrowing his venerable brow, and
bowing down the proudly erect form of-the
merchant.
"Mr. Going," said our hero, after the first
greetings had been exchanged, "although I am
delighted at seeing you all again, after so long
a separation, I may as well acknowledge at
once that I have not come on an errand of
pleasure only. I much desire to have a
business talk with you and Walter, if Miss
Going will excuse us. I would respectfully
suggest that we get.over the laborious part of
my visit as soon as convenient to you."
The old gentleman's face assumed a more
troubled expression, as lie at once assented,
and led the way down stairs, to the library,
where our hero had been on more than one
occasion. This was the room where lie had
taken leave of his employer, and as he entered
it again, and considered the difference in his
circumstances, between then and now, he felt
perhaps for the first time, the proud conscious-
ness of power which is conferred by the
possession of wealth.
Jessie remained alone in the parlor. She
heard Walter inquiring of the servant where
Mr. Montant had gone ; she heard him de-
scending the stairs; and through the opening
library door the hearty words of welcome
reached her ears. She laid her head on her
hands, and became lost in thought.
*    *    *    *    *    *    *
"And now," said Mr. Going, after having
related what had occurred in the firm while
Montant had been away, " I have voluntarily
given you an account of the past, and you can
now see what an infamous intrigue it was into
which I was coaxed. You see how our Board
of Trustees, composed of some of the first
merchants of New York, proved to be the
very worst selection that could have been
made. Respectability is one thing, work is

quite another, and no benefit arises from pro.
curing big-sounding names, when their owners
have not the time to attend to their business.
These high-toned gentlemen left every thing
in the hands of Fatman, and Fatman has
ruined me. Even without Stilletto, who for-
sook his post at the factory some months ago;
even after the perfect fiasco which that
scoundrel made of the manufacturing portion
of the business, there was no reason why a
sufficient amount should not have been real.
ized out of the company's property to make an
honorable settlement with the shareholders,
and to leave me enough to discharge my
pressing liabilities. As it is, Fatman sold his
shares secretly, and many of the -trustees were
enabled by him to do the same, on the strength
of a dividend which he caused to be declared,
and which created a short-lived demand for
the stock. I could not sell any of my interest,
because it was all pledged to Mr. Chip, as se-
curity for his loan of two hundred thousand
dollars, and as soon as the public began to
suspect that the dividend was paid with
borrowed money, and not from the legitimate
earnings, the  stock depreciated almost to
nothing, and I finally resolved to commence a
suit against the company, which suit is now
pending, and does not look unfavorable for us,
In the meanwhile--"
" In the meanwhile," cried Walter. " In
the meanwhile, we must fail !"
It was an ugly word, and familiar as was
its import to Mr. Going, our hero saw him
wince at the sound. He contemplated the old
gentleman's countenance, and reflected upon
the humiliation it must be to him to acknowl-
edge now, and in this very room, to him, what
he as a young clerk had predicted last year.
Terribly true was the prophecy the gray-haired
merchant had disregarded ! At the last speech
of Walter's, Montant asked, eagerly,--
"There is an end to delicacy, Mr. Going,
and since I know this much. I would thank
you to answer me a few questions ?"
" Ask away," cried Walter, in despair, walk-
ing up and down the room. " If father does
not answer you, I will."
" What, then, is the immediate cause of your
embarrassment ?"
" The notes which you will remember the
company gave us for our merchantable prop-
erty have now been twice renewed, and the
last time Fatman promised me faithfully they
should be paid."
"But he did not pledge himself personally
to their redemption ?" interposed Montant.
"Of course not," answered Walter, bitterly.
"I'll give that man a thrashing yet, some
day !"
"Well, and these notes, Mr. Going?'"
"These notes, sir, are due day after to-mor-
row," answered Mr. Going, despondently, "and
this afternoon, in spite of a thousand fair prom-
ises which he made to me before I instituted
the suit against the company-this afternoon,
sir, I received word from Fatman that, under
the circumstances, meaning the law-suit, the
company did not feel inclined to pay the
notes, and that even if they had felt so inclin.-
ed, there was not a cent in the exchequer."

134

"Then the company will break."
"And we, with it. I have borrowed money
upon those notes, and if they are not paid,
the lenders will come back on us, and I can
not pay. There is no sense in attempting to
work through. My shares will be worth ab-
solutely, nothing. Mr. Chip will lose a large
suim, and the trustees will have to content
themselves with what they have made out of,
it. So far, I am perfectly certain that Fatman
has realized a great deal of money ; but why
he has assumed such a hostile position toward
me-why he appears to have forgotten all his
former friendship, and is determined to ruin
me, I do not know, I am sure."
"I know," cried Walter. " He was always
jealous of us, and I believe Mrs. Fatmnan has
urged him on, because on some occasions I did
not feel inclined to be quite as attentive to her
as she was graciously inclined to permit."
" He certainly grudged me the Priory,"
continued his father, without appearing to
notice the import of Walter's words, "and be-
sides he has shrewdly stepped into a- great
portion of my former business connection in
the banking and commission line."
"All of which can be recovered from him
again," said Montant, quietly.
"A beggar is a child in business, no matter
how many years of prosperity and mercantile
fame have passed over his head," retorted Mr.
Going, sorrowfully.
"Well, then," said Walter throwing himself
into ar arm-chair, "let us give up the ship
gracefully. I have struggled the very life out
of ne, since you left, Montant, and even if I
thought we could stave it off for another six
months, I would advise father, in view of the
infamous treatment he has received, to declare
the truth."
" The public," said the old gentleman,
" should know how some of our celebrated mer-
chants do business, and those gentlemen
themselves, should be made to understand the
duties of a trustee, aid that it is not doing
what the poor shareholders expect of them-
to attend one or two meetings, pocket theI
price paid- for their great names, and then
leave all the management to unscrupulous
parties, without consulting the public in the
matter."
" Mr. Going," said Montant, in the calm,
measured voice, he had heard from    him
once before in this room, " I can not imagine
that your firm is insolvent to-day. Am I
right in thinking that with the assistance of a
large sum in cash, you could, in all likelihood,
arrange matters advantageously with the com-
pany, and also save much of your property
which I know to be scattered far and wide,
from sacrifice."
"1 I think that the company still owns much
property of actual mercantile value. This I
could undoubtedly recover if I could offer to
Chip and others a comparatively small amount
in cash. Their eyes are now opened, and I
think they would consent to lose a large sum
for a small cash percentage. Besides, I have
hypothecated a good deal of real estate and
other property of my own, which, if I could
only redeem at once, could be ultimately, well

FORTUNE.

135

sold, waiting my time for disposing of it. But
this money I can not raise. It is impossi-
ble !"
"Father is quite right," growled Walter.
" We are not actually insolvent, and yet if we
are forced to suspend payment all will go by
the board and it will be an ugly failure.
Every thing will melt away. for those that own
our mortgages will sell for just enough to
cover themselves."
" Impossible to help it," said the old gentle-
man, and when with those words he finished
the recital of his trials and present situation,
he fell back in his chair the picture of hope-
less dejection. Montant felt that it would be
inhuman and barbarous cruelty to longer
withhold the aid that was at his command.
Yet he reflected one moment. Josephine
had given him full power, and he was free to
act as his consciepce dictated. He reflected
whether it was possible that Mr. Going and
his son had been over-sanguine in estimating
that the firm was not intrinsically insolvent, and
he made up his mind that he could take the
risk. le arose, stepped up to Mmr. Going, and
said, in a voice that trembled  a little at
first:-
"A year ago, I made a promise to your
daughter. I have come to-night to redeem it.
Both of you, gentlemen, know of my engage-
ment to Josephine Van Strom. After proper
consultation with her, I have determined to
make yon the offer, that, should you accept
me as a partner in your house, I will see the
firm through if it cost a hundred or even two
hundred thousand dollars."
le was a boy no longer, and his face show-
ed the change worked by his recent and
severe experience. A man who has look-
ed death in the face in as cold-blooded shape
as he had encountered it in the form of an
indictment for murder Is not apt to be timid
or to hesitate on assuming a position of power
and in calmly asserting it. So be stood before
his old principal in a new character as a man
to be respected, not alone for the power of
the wealth which he wielded, but also for his
personal worth.
Mr. Going was too much surprised to im-
mediately recover his equanimity, while Wal-
ter sprang to his feet; and seizing our hero by
the hand, exclaimed, with impulsive joy,-
" You bring us new life, and we must never
be separated any more. You are a noble fel-
low, Ernest, and we alone can ever appreciate
what you have done for us."
" Provided we can accept the offer, inter-
posed Mr. Going, in a low voice, in which
hope did not speak.
"Of course we must accept," said Walter,
.impatiently.
" We will accept if we are solvent, other-
wise, not."
" My conviction is, that the capital will be
safe," said our hero, quietly. " Of course you
would shrink as much from accepting my pro-
position, as I v ould be loath to risk another
person's capital if there existed any danger for
the security of this money. I would suggest
that we immediately look inao the condition of
your affairs provided you have the requisite


136               -              GOI    AND SON.
leisure, and can, from memory, make s ch ex-  "I know what it is I" cried the girl, and
tracts from the books as may be required."  stepping up to our hero, who turned around
In another hour Montant had satisfied him as if by the influence of magnetism, she added
self that, although the great house of Going &amp;  with a heightened color:-          '
Sn was nearly ruined, it was not yet beyond  " I always knew  it, Mr. Montant! !Here
redemption. And now the reader might ask is my hand, and take a sister's friendship with
the question: How could so wealthy a firm  it!"
become so quickly impoverished?   Montant    He took the proffered hand, but could not
did not wonder at that startling fact, because, raise his eyes to meet her gaze.
for years Mr. Going had intrusted his busi-  "The old style of Going &amp; Son will be
ness almost entirely to his clerks. While changed," said the old gentleman,'cheerfully,
Martin Bates had embezzled money, other em- "It has been a good name; but I think that
ployes, representatives, and agents, had squan- Going, Montant &amp; Company will be better still.
dered it, and Walter had devoted himself to And now take a seat by me, Jessie, and let us
driving four-in-hand and playing cricket. Be- enjoy this bright hour which Providence has
sides all this, the expenditures of the hospita- prepared for us 1"
ble, generous, charitable head of the house, " And let us pledge the health of the new
were enormous, and when the firm, unknown firm in a glass of champagne," suggested
to the world, had become weakened by these Walter. The proposition seemed in place, and
causes, came the Hobgoblin Factory, which when the wine was passed around, there was,
swallowed immense sums of ready cash. a cheerfulness in the room that had long--oh,
These large outlays could only be met by in. how long-been absent from that house!
curring large debts, for the discharge of which Jessie's heart swelled with gratitude. She
they had trusted to the realization of large nestled closely to her father, and her un-
amounts from the sale of Hobgoblin shares. bounded devotion to him made her forget for
These shares now became worthless, and no- the time all that might dampen her happiness.
thing was left to meet the liabilities that con- And was there something hidden away in her
stantly increased by the exorbitant rates of heart that might have clouded her pleasure?
interest demanded on account of the tottering Not so, to judge by her happy face and spark.
credit of the firm.                         'a eea, na she listened to a brief account of
But as there is hope while there is life in a what had occurred and what our hero had ac-
body, so there is hope while there is money  complished. Still, she did not favor him with
in a mercantile house, and hope,. the great such attention as some might have thought he
comforter, was strong in the hearts of those deserved ; and when she finally said, "All
three as they discussed their plans for the will be well now," she addressed the remark
future.                                   Lo her father, seeming, in the kiss she gave
A silvery voice from up-stairs interrupted  him, to forget all other presence but his
them.                                      own.
"Papa."                                    All this time Montant sat quietly, with his
Mr. Going went to the door.              eyes bent on the floor. Although proud and
"Well, my daughter ?"                    satisfied, his countenance seemed hardened and
"Papa, may I come down stairs ?" asked   stoical, as if the importance of what had been
Miss Jessie, leaning over the banisters.   done, and what still remained to be done, re-
"Tell her, yes !" said Walter's stentorian  pressed all emotion.
voice. " Come along, Jess !"                 " And now let us drink to the health of our
Our hero instinctively made a move for his new partner," said Mr. Going. " We owe him
hat; but was checked by the pattering of the a debt of gratitude which we can never pay;
young lady's feet on the stairs. iHe heard the for by his timely aid, and by his fidelity to me,
rustling of her dress, and felt a mixed sensa- he has brought peace to my house in my old
tion of embarrassment and delight. He saw  age."
her enter the room, and became giddy.        As Jessie touched her glass to our hero's,
There she stood by the door, her hand still he glanced into her eyes and saw them filled
on the knob, her delightful figure slightly in- with tears. The fervent words of her beloved
lined forward, her lustrous eyes bent upon father overwhelmed her with gratitude toward
them in wonder and coquettish query, her the man to whom    she had just promised a
rich, raven tresses thrown back, her beautiful sister's friendship, and he read in their expres-
face all animation, with her lovely lips half  sion more than lips could utter, that he pos-
parted-so she appeared for a moment, and   sessed all the admiration and affection she
again he was spell-bound by her presence, could bestow upon him forever-and no more.
again charmed to the spot, and enthralled by Mr. Going continued:-
the magic of her loveliness in spite of the  "Boys,-you will have luck in business. I think
world, and in mocking derision of his promises a good time is in store for this country, and
to himself.                                although a war seems at hand, we may be con-
"I heard Walter laughing, and papa's voice fident that we are on the stronger side. Com-
speaking loudly and cheerfully. Is there any  merce will not only hold up her head, and
news? Good news ?"                         assert her power, but will bring us a season of
Our hero turned away to examine some unparalleled prosperity which will create im-
books on the shelves, while Mr. Going an- mense wealth in our midst in spite of the war-
swered his daughter. thunder at our gates. Never forget our late
" There is news, indeed, my darling. We experiences, or that fortune and the advent of
have made a change in our firm." a friend in need have saved my name from dis-.

FORTUNE.

honor, and not the forethought and prudence
which should have held the balance in this of
gray head. I have been like a foolish boy. ci
Henceforth, I will show you the wisdom of age,
and be certain that to walk the troublesome
road of business safely, a' man needs only in-
tegrity, common sense, and self-respect. No lii
one has any excuse for remaining poor in h
this country;. and, in this advancing -age, a h
merchant is respected as he should be, finding tI
in a successful mercantile career an honor as h
famous as can be won on the red field of battle. ft
A health then once more to the new house of a
Going, Montant &amp; Company, and let no one, 0
not here present, ever know how great our-
need has been."
At this moment our hero looked up. A S
heightened color overspread his face, and in his t
eyes there glowed a fire as of a mind made up s
and resolute, a heart that has dispelled the
clouds of doubt, and conquered in a struggle. h
His eyes no more shunned those of the beauti- J
ful girl. He seemed to shake off with an im- t
patient gesture what hesitancy still encum-i
bered the victory he had Wvon, and a warm 1
emotion softened his voice, as he said:;-'
. And, may I here pledge a health to the
woman whose great love for me is the caused
of this, to me, unspeakably happy hour.; Let l
me ask you all to Join me in remembering
Josephine Van Strom, that will be JosephineS
Montant ore long if God permit. To her I owe
ute, happiness, wealth. She that never wavered
in .her faith and trust and love-she, thatI
worked for me day and night, when I was in
danger and tribulation-she, that is as noble
aind true as can be born on earth and inspired
by heaven, does not deserve to be forgotten,
and let me at this time form in her name a tie
of friendship and, affection between you andI
her."r
Cheerfully and heartily did he seek Jessie's
eyes, as she joined in the sincere response of
the others. She saw that all strife (if strife
there had been) had ceased in his strong heart,
and impelled by curiosity, or solicitude, or ego-
tism, he attempted to read in her face what
she thought of it.
lie could read nothing.
Finally they parted, to meet again to-morrow.
A hearty "Good-night," a shaking of hands all
around, a half-laughing "Remember our bar-
gain as to sisterly affection, Miss Jessie," and
he was gone.,
"My dear father," said that young lady,
when they were alone again in the parlor,
" has he brought a sacrifice to us ?"
"No," answered Mr. Going. "The money
lie will invest is safe in our house. Many
wealthy men would have given their sons
-much greater sums to invest with me on those
terms."
"In former times ?" suggested Jessie, wisely.
" Yes, but nevertheless he knows full well
that his connection with me gives him a stand.
ing and position which wealth can rarely buy."
' Does he know that ?" asked.Jessie, doubt-
fully.-
" Most certainly. He has said so, and he is
too intelligert not to know it, and too candid
not to have meant it."

" I am glad of it. I do not like being under
obligations to any one," said the young lady, de-
dedly, but satisfied.
Who is that man walking along the dimly
ghted street with a bounding step and a
eart as happy as heart can be ? Why does
e hold his head so high and feel as if he were
,he inferior of no creature on earth? "lie
as done his duty, and he can look straight and
earlessly into the eyes of all mankind; yes,
nd lift his eyes to the eternal heavens with-
ut a shudder.
Into the eyes of all mankind, and all woman-
ind, too!I Into the eyes of Josephine Van
trom he can look and laugh, telling her the
while how he stood by her nobly, who nobly
tood by himl
He has broken the spell. His strong will
has gained the victory over the witchery of
ressie's presence. He has severed the cord
hat threatened to tear him away from Joseph-
ne, regardless of all that she had done for
him, forsaking her like a knave, and leaving
her to perdition.
No more doubt, no more wavering, no more
strife between passion and conscience 1lIe
aughed to himself, so light was he at heart,
and he wrote a letter to Josephine that night
which made her weep with joy.
In fact, our hero was excited and delighted
with himself, and felt certain that in all human
probability his happiness. was assured for a
good long comfortable time to come. How,
now, Bella Van Strom?
Where are your scruples and warnings and
predictions and fancies? You did not know
this nian when you instilled into Josephine's
timid and susceptible soul a fear of that alliance
with the Goings. In fact, you have shown
yourself to be an unbelieving, suspicious
wretch, and were it not that we can excuse
you on account of your recent afflictions, the
breach ;n our friendship would become irre-
parable I
So Josephine told her when she perused
Moutant's letter, although the lovely widow
did not use just those harsh expressions.
Bella read the letter, listened calmly to the
enthusiastic eulogies which her sister-in-law
pronounced on her lover, and retired unfeel-
ingly to her room without speaking a word in
reply.
CHAPTER IX.
MONEY.
"One business does command us all,
For mine is money"
TiMON OF ATHENs.
THAr creature of modern times, the honest,
honorable, and honored merchant, dates from
England's rise among the nations of the earth
as a commercial power.   Before that day,
trade, money-lending, and negotiations of every
kind were confined to Jews and people of the
lower classes, and such pursuits were despised

137


138                             GOING
and looked down upon by those of gentle
breeding, whose ancestry had for generations
lived upon the possession of large estates, and
gains in foreign wars. But from the time that
England began to be counted among the com-
mercial nations, of which she now stands at
the head, the merchants became a power in
the community, a pillar of the State, the pulse
of the nation's life, the extenders of civilization
and home respectability. And the American
merchant is taking a stand which calls forth
the bewildered admiration of old Europe, and
in New York the American merchant is to be
seen in his greatest power and pride. Among
these New York merchants Mr. Going had
held his head high, and his position was the
reward of his untold labor in the.earlier part
of his career. And the community knew it,
and respected him for it.
But to-day he was expected to fail! Mr.
Chip said so as he and the other directors of
a certain bank had a friendly confab at their
regular weekly meeting, at which meeting
the wise gray-haired gentlemen are apt to
indulge in scandal and gossip to an extent
worthy of equally aged worthies of the other
sex.
Mr. Fatman thought so, and the arrange-
ment of "hand-in-hand " with Mr. Going had
bean out of his recollection for some time
previous. lie was certain "they could not
work through" any longer, and he did not at-
tempt to assume an expression of wnourning
on his half-jovial, half-vicious countenance.
There were few that did not know it, and
the commercial world in general prepared
themselves for the ceremony of mourning the
event. Many studied pretty speeches, express-
lve of sympathy, and a great lamentation,
suited to the former high standing of the
house, was everywhere expected, though the
future of the bankrupts was to be forgotten, as
speedily as possible, just as if it was a ques-
tion of the funeral, instead of the failure of
Going &amp; Son.
The directors of the bank had all assembled,
and Mr. Chip had just concluded a feeling
speech about his old friend Going, when he
exclaimed to the cashier,-
"Here is Mr. Going himself. le seems to
be coming in; but I suppose it is time for us
to adjourn up stairs, is it not, gentlemen ?"
So the gentlemanly directors suddenly dis-
covered that half-past ten, the hour for their
official meeting, had arrived twenty minutes
ago, and they adjourned to the room above in
some haste.
Mr. Going very well understood their spon-
taneous exit as he approached. Nearly every
one of the directors had once been his personal
friends, and now they shunned him like an
outcast, since he was known to have lost his
money!1
The old gentleman had to pause a second,
so appalled was he by this heartless affront,
and the companion who accompanied him, had
to whisper in his ear,-
"What they have been to you in the past,
they will be again in two short hours. There-
fore you have only temporarily lost their
contemptible friendship.'

A

LND SON.
Mr. Going recovered himself. Thank God, it
was the last bitterness.
" Mr. Countebank," said Mr. Going to the
withered little cashier, "I have come to in.
troduce to you my new partner, Mr. Ernest
Montant, who will leave his signature with
you, and in future will attend to the finances
of my new firm-Going, Montant &amp; Con-
pany."
The cashier looked up a moment with
that presumption, bordering upon impudence,
which our bank officers (in reality our most
dependent servants) are allowed to assume,
and said, somewhat puzzled,-
" You were a clerk in the house before, I
remember you. All right. The paying-teller
will show you where to write your sig.
nature, and now excuse me, I have to attend
the meeting of the directors up-stairs."
Mr. Going had left immediately after irtro.
during his new partner. The latter had made
no bow, because the cashier had not vol.
untered a like courtesy, and he now stood
before him without removing his hat.
"You will stay a moment, if you please,"
he said, very quietly, but with evident deter.
mination to be obeyed.
Mr. Countebank had his hand on the door.
knob; but turned around with the air of a
millionaire accosted by a beggar.
" My time, sir,-" he began sharply.
"Of course I know your time is valuable,"
interrupted our hero, "and the directors have
already postponed the meeting twenty min.
utes; but I request you to give rue three
minutes more. Mr. Going's firm has deposited
in this bank for nearly a century, and 1 insist
upon your attention for the time I stated."
He took out his watch, noted the time, and
took a seat near Mr. Countebank's desk. The
latter looked bewildered, hesitated a moment,
and before our hero had produced some papers
from his pocket-book, was again seated at his
desk.
" Three minutes," repeated the cashier,
gruffly.
" Mr. Countebank," said Montant, without
heeding the affront, "our payments are heavy
to-day. We have over fifty thousand dollars
coming due at your bank alone, and the col.
laterals which you hold are partly worthless.
I refer to the notes of the Hobgoblin Com-
pany."
"Well, and what do you propose ?"
"I propose," said Montant, slowly,-" to con-
tinue to keep an account here, provided-you
continue to treat us with the courtesy which
our old, name deserves, and will grant us
additional accommodations, should we need
them."
"But you are insolvent/1" cried the cashier,
hardly knowing what lie said from perplexity.
Montant colored with anger at the ugly
wordl, but, controlling himself, answered, with
cutting distinctness,-*-
" These two checks, each for one hundred
thousand dollars, will give you the lie more
flatly than I can. You will please put theme
to our credit, and charge what is due to-day
to our account. You will also oblige me by
kindly contradicting all absurd reports con.-

FORTUNE.

cerning our insolvency, there being no founda-
tion for such scandal, except in the malice of
some evil-minded enemies of Mr. Going. Good-
morning, sir."
The tactics pursued by Mr. Going and our
hero were to prove most telling and success-
ful. He had advised his new partners to keep
the change a profound secret. His motives
were twofold. In the first place he wanted to
see how far the credit of the house could be
stretched, and found, that in spite of rumor,
and finally, a prevailing certainty of their
failure, the personal credit of Mr. Going was
not entirely lost. He had sent Walter to bor-
row small amounts from the brokers, and
other small men that were under obligations
to the house, and they found that these small
men responded to the call without hesitation.
Unlike the millionaires, such as Chip, to whom
Mr. Going had applied for aid, the poorer class
came to the rescue, relying on his honor to re-
pay them, even in case of a failure. He was
not "a perfect stranger," except to the im-
mensely wealthy.
The other reason for deferring the vindica-
tion of the firm was, that Montant thought as
much eclat as possible was advisAe under the
circumstances. A gradual improvement in the
affairs of the house would have dispelled the
floating rumors, and general doubt by degrees;
but he knew that a sudden display of power
that no one dreamed of, just on the last day,
would be noised abroad in the most exagger-
ated manner, and it needed a trumpet-tone to
silence the wide-spread whisperings.
He did not look back when lie left Mr.
Countebank, to watch the effect lie had in-
tended to -produce, for lie was certain what
that effect would be. Mr. Countebank held
the checks in his hands, and examined them a
moment, not knowing what to think, so well
had the busy tongue of Mr. Fatman succeeded
in impressing the minds of all he could reach,
with regard to the fihilure of Going &amp; Son.
One hundred and fifty thousand dollars in ex-
cess of what they had to pay! And notwith-
standing- a loss of nearly fifty thousand dollars
just incurred by the notes of Hobgolblin be-
coming worthless! But there was no mistake.
There were the checks, signed by Mr. Chip, him-
self, and they were certified by the Bank of Com-
meree. The astounded cashier called a clerk.
" Change the heading of Going &amp; Son's ac-
count, to Going, Montant &amp; Company, and give
them credit for two hundred thousand dollars,
charging their notes in account !" lie almost
shrieked, and then fairly flew up the stairs, two
steps at a leap, to tell the sage directors
the news.
"Let me see the checks," said Mr. Chip.
"As I supposed," he added, looking around
wnh genuine satisfaction.  " These are my
checks, and this is money, belonging to the
Van Strom estate; but since Paradise and
Montant borrowed it, as executors of the es-
tate, upon collateral security, I am certain that
Going did not get them out of charity. Gentle-
men, he has had more resources than any of
us dreamed of! I am heartily glad of it."
" A clever old gentleman," said one director.
" Can't put haim down," said another.

139

" They were always a strong house," testi-
fled a third.
" And will remain so; for, by Jove, any firm
that can lose money steadily, as they have
done, expend whole fortunes in private ex-
travagances, get taken in by such a business as
that Hobgoblin affair, and then come out with
a hundred and fifty thousand balance in bank
the very day we all expected them to fail-
such a house, gentlemen, can be relied on."
"I am very glad of it," repeated Mr. Chip,
softly.
"Going is a noble, honorable, charitable
man," continued another speaker, in the
general ecology, "and I mean to go and tell
him so to-day."
"I always thought he would come out right.
Ile is as smart a man as we have among us."
Oh, the change produced by those two slips
of paper! But though the tribute paid by
these gray-haired merchants was caused by
mammon, and not by true friendship, yet, to
be just to human nature, now that all was
right again with their former friend, without
their aid, probably there was not one in the
assembly not honestly glad at heart for
what had occurred.  ]iaean was not among
them!
Mr. Going sat in his private office that day
a proud and happy man. Honor to the weak-
ness that made him derive pleasure from
vanity ! As to a soldier, so is honor dear to a
merchant, and be it sustained as it may, it
gladdens the heart and instills new life. And
besides, in his happiness, Mr. Going looked
back upon the humiliations he had suffered
forgivingly. He knew there must be a bar-
rier between the rich and the poor in a country
where every man carries his fortune in his own
head and hands. He knew that without that
barrier, surmountable in this happy land by
energy and perseverance, the ambition of the
individual would slacken, and the progress of
the nation be impeded, and lie accepted the
good luck that had befallen him with humble
thanks, like a Christian gentleman, forgetting
the harshness of the world which but a few
weeks ago had bowed his head, and almost
broken his heart. '
Rich men, who saw in him a friend regained,
poor men, who saw in him their kind and mu-
nificent protector once more, old mcn, who
joyed at a bright spot in human destiny, young
men, aspiring to equal such an example of
victory in the midst of defeat-all crowded
around him, and when Ernest Montant saw
the heightened color in his face, and the
brilliant light in his eye, he had the blissful
satisfaction, so rarely accorded to mortals, of
having been the creator of happiness-blissful
because Deitic.
Then, with a shudder, he thought of what
would have occurred had ie been unable to
help. For a moment his imagination showed
him that old man, tottering to his grave with
his pride broken and his heart desolate.
Perhaps compelled to - work for his daily
bread, mingling his bitter tears with the sweat
of his brow.
And there are such men in the world!I
They are groping in the night of despair while

1


GOING AND SON.

the sun is shedding golden beams upon the
laughing world.  And as Ernest Moritant
finished his reverie, lie could have thrown his
arms around that old man, who was saved now
and called him father, defying all the smooth-
faced tigers of the gay world in his defence.
"Father !" he could have spoken the word
aloud, but it died on his lips, in his heart be-
fore it was uttered. It haunted him, it staid
in his mind, rung in his ears all that day, and
as he strolled up town he confessed to him-
self,--
"Yes: hang all doubts and fears-let me
tell the truth to myself at least, though never
to another. I would rather carl that old gen-
tleman by that heavenly name, though he
were a beggar, than to be as I am, the praised
and honored merchant, the almost idolized
friend of those I love, and the possessor of the
Venus to whom I owe it all."
He was unhappy. Mark, the man who has
an abundance of money, and all that wealth

CHAPTER I.
WALTER IS REED.
" Is this the promised end ?"
KIse LEA.
JOSEPHINE VAN STROM was visiting a friend
1n New York. She that bud once been lonely
and forsaken, now found no lack of acquaint-
ances, charmed into sudden existence by that
sorcerer, money. Perhaps, many a gallant, first
attracted by the well-founded report of her
wealth alone, found more than wealth to fasci-
nate him in the beautiful widow. Our hero
called upon her as often as his arduous duties
permitted.
"Late, again," she would say, rising with a
joyous start to greet him. "Do you know,
Ernest, that I can not help wishing you had
never entered into that copartnership which
keeps you from me so much."
"I think a man can never remain attractive
to a woman unless he has a regular occupation.
He must be employed during some hours of the
day, if it is only to keep him out of the way at
home. If he remains with his wife all the
time, he becomes the housekeeper's drudge."
" But I am not a housekeeper, you know I"
"But soon shall be," returned Montant,
gayly.
" How soon ?" she asked, in a whisper.
"Whenever my darling gives the 'word.
Shall it be a month from to-day ?"

can procure, and who has used his means right.
eously and nobly-is unhappy still.
*      *      *      **   *
A few days after the fame of the old house
had taken another flight upward in the manner
just narrated, the door of Going, Montant &amp;
Co.'s private office was opened softly.
" Good morning, gentlemen," said Mr. Sole.
mons all smile "I am happy to inform yen
that I'm in the stock board again. Debtsyall
paid-old uncle died-rich-miser, you know.
Market steady-all stocks in for a rise--bulls
victorious. Give me an order-Erie is low,
have you any ? I'll sell at three a quarter re-
gular-buy three an eighth regular, or I'll give
three an eighth sixteenth off cash."
"Hurrah l" cried Walter, "cash is come to
life again, hey, Solomons."
" Cash, sir," answered the Jew, stepping
into the room re-adorned with his diamonds
cash is re-born, and long life to it."
"Amen," added Montant, laughing.

"Do you think that by that time your busi-
ness will graciously yield you up to me for a
few weeks ?"
" Yes. It seems ridiculous to say, one is
too busy to get married. Yet such has been
my case. There is an amount of enterprise
and activity in the commerce of this city, per-
haps unparalleled in the history of trade. A
man must devote every moment of time and
every faculty of his brain to his business, or
he can not keep up with the rest."
"But you are independent," she pleaded.
" Not, until that two hundred thousand dol-
lars is returned."
" Oh, you foolish, silly fellow. Isn't it all
yours ?"
"I might almost call it mine, but as a part-
ner of Going, Montant &amp; Co., I feel the ne-
cessity of paying it back to the estate of John
Van Strom. I lent the firm that money on my
responsibility as trustee, and I must see to
its repayment."
"I hate money !" she cried.
" Do not speak so foolishly, Josephine," he
replied, gravely. " Money has made us what
we are to-day. Money has brought happiness
back to Mr. Going's sad and oppressed heart.
How can you then speak in derision of this
great benefactor ?"
" But I want you to leave business, and de-
vote yourself to me."
" There is a time of unexampled prosperity
in store for us," continued Montant. "I can
name the day when Mr. Going and Walter
will be able to discharge all their debts; for the

war, which is threatening the life of the coun-
try, is rolling wealth into our coffers."
" I thought times were dreadfully hard."
" No; at least not to merchants removed
from the immediate scenes of wvar."
" And if you continue to prosper in business
will you promise me to retire as soon as Mr.
Going has no more need of you ?"
" What on earth would I do all day long ?"
" Love me I" she answered, looking up in his
face with the old Madonna expression. He did
not answer. After a pause--
"I have a piece of news to tell you, Joseph-
ine," he said. " Mr. Going has bought the
Priory again."
" How could they-"
".Commit such an extravagance ? I myself
advised the old gentleman to do it.  The
house in Fifth Avenue will be sold, and their
expenses will be comparatively small in the
country."
" It seems very strange to me," said Joseph-
ine.
" There was a time when we all thought a
reconciliation with Mr. Fatman was out of the
question, and yet he and Mr. Going have made
it all up, and now that we have gained the
day, he seems sorry that he ever opposed us.
More than that, our old enemy is a guest at
the Priory. Mr. Going requested immediate
possession of the house, and Mr. Fatman con-
sented to the request, on condition that he
should be permitted to remain a few weeks
as a guest."
"I don't understand it," said Josephine.
" Nor do I ; so let us place it among those
queer freaks of fortune which we will not
attempt to fathom. But there is something
more I have to tell you."              ,
" What a day of wonders. Well what is,
it ?"
" It is a case for you to decide alone. - I
merely -want to know whether you do not
think, that, since the Goings owe so much to
you, it would be but ordinary delicacy to ac-
cept the invitation Miss Jessie extends to
you, to spend a few days at the Priory ?"
Josephine started with dismay; but in his
calm, serene, face, she read no justification for
the strange doubts and jealous fears that pos-
sessed her at his words, and, having reflected,
she said, honestly:-
' I do not like to go; but if you think a re-
fusal would look haughty, or, in any way
overbearing, I quite agree with you that good
taste bids us become their guests if they ex-
pect us to come."
" Here is a letter from Miss Going. Walter
informed me of its import when he gave it to
me."-
"So, after some further conversation, the
visit was decided on, and the next fine day
they rode to Harlem, where Walter, by ap-
pointment, awaited them with his little yacht
to take advantage of the fine breeze and sail
up.
" I think few ladies would venture upon
such a trip. Miss Jessie certainly showed
that she was cautious," said the hand-
some widow, who was watching with some
anxiety the stiffening breeze, swelling the can-

vas and forcing the little vessel pretty well
over on its side.
" No danger," cried Walter, at the helm. "I
have been at this business all my life. Jessie
is unwell, or she would have come with me as
I told you."
Now, no matter how true this boast might
have been, the wind, coming down in puffs
and squalls, seemed determined to test his
seamanship, and one particular gust (probably
made up on purpose in the clouds), struck
them very suddenly. The boat careened over,
hesitated a moment while the water gushed
over the rail, and then capsized in the most
deliberate manner. A loud shriek, an oath
from Walter. and Mrs. Van Strom, the gentle-
men, and the two sailors, found themselves
sprawling in the Sound.
Fortunately, none of them became entang-
led in the rigging, and since there was but one
woman in the party they could all combine in
their efforts to save her. Clinging to the keel
of the vessel, Walter and Ernest held Joseph-
ine up between them, but the shock addegl to
the precarious position in which they were
placed. The widow was nearly senseless, and
Walter and Ernest had a hard struggle until,
to their unspeakable joy, a fishing-smack bore
down to their relief. With the help of the
sturdy fishermen, they were pulled on board
in safety, amid odd queries of " Was your
sheet jammed ?" &amp;c. Though neither the
appearance, nor the odor of the boat and its
finny freight were enticing it may be question-
ed if that great sailor Walter was ever so lit-
tle curious as to what sort of a keel was un-
der him, as he felt that a great responsibility
rested on him for the mishap, and, indeed,
they were all thoroughly grateful for their de-
liverance. Finally, a friendly yacht came with-
in speaking-distance, and, by dint of some
exertion, they were all transhipped to that
more comfortable craft.
" What a superb figure she has," whisper-
ed Walter to our hero, when the widow was
being wrapped up in an infinity of blankets in
the cabin of their friend's yacht.
Little did they dream of the consequences
of this accident. Josephine had caught a
cold that was to prolong her few days' stay at
the Priory, to weeks, and perhaps months.
Men's lives have turned on a smaller pivot
than this. Who can tell what will be the con-
squences ?
And now we must turn our attention to an-
other scene for a moment, while it is being
enacted, and then let it pass away from mem-
ory with all its sickening horrors.
A mad-house in New England; a gloomy
company of men and women about the grounds,
a blank look in every eye, in every face.
As you enter, the air seems uncomfortably
still, as if some dread spell was in it. The
forms that flit by are like so many pale and
restless ghosts - but, instead of the spirit
without the body, we have here the body de-
void of the mind.
What wonder the young and timid girl,
dressed in black and deeply veiled, trembles
and shudders at the threshold of this dread
abode !

140

FATE.

141

BOOK V.-FATE.


142                   GOING AND SON.

The kind manner of the doctor reassured
her ; butas he led her along the lane of blub-
bering, senseless creatures that crowded up to
see the new arrival, she realized, with a sick-
ening terror, that these were the best of those
confined in the asylum, and her way led to
the place where the worst cases were imprison-
ed, and it was there she expected to see her
father.
Let us not describe the man with the shat-
tered, tottering frame, the wild, blood-shot
eye, hands bleeding with the marks of vio-
lence, and the teeth set upon the lacerated
lips ; and this was once Eben Bates.
He had just recovered from an attack of
frenzy. His daughter had visited him before
his removal to the State Asylum, and the
effects had been soothing, even productive of
a glimpse of reason. So the doctor caused his
fetters to be removed while he led her near
him.
The doctor made a mistake.
"Father, do you know me ?' Oh, if all was
not darkness in that soul, those heart-rending,
broken accents would have reawakened him
to light.
"Are you the daughter of Judge Bates?"
asked a voice unnatural to her ears, and yet it
came from her father !
"Father I" she cried aloud, advancing to-
ward him. " Father look at me-oh, it can
not, can not be that you don't know me."
"What are you to me ?" asked the maniac,
with mock grandeur, drawing himself up into
a shocking caricature of his former dignity.
" Go away ! You are the daughter of a crimi-
nall  You are dishonored, an outcast, I 'll
none of you I"
" Oh, why have I lived to see this," mur-
mured the poor girl, scarcely able to bear
up.
" That is the question," he cried, fiercely,
having caught her words.
The doctor's practiced ear caught the change
in the maniacs voice, and he stepped in sight
of the cell. Immediately her father's manner
became quiet, and in low, measured tones he
said:-
" Why should you live? If you were to die,
Eben Bates would have a free conscience and
you would be saved from disgrace. I know
Eben Bates well-"
Reassured by the change in the patient's
demeanor the doctor stepped aside to attend a
raving maniac, who seemed determined to win
his freedom by battering down his cell door
with his thick skull.
"I'll kill you," shouted Bates. A spring,
a moan of terror and agony, and the daughter
lay on the ground writhing in the iron clutch
of her father. He had seized her by the
throat and dashed her once-cherished head
against the iron-bound walls and flagged pave-
ment, again and again. Before the terrified
attendants could interfere, the last prayer of
pretty, gentle, loving Bessie Bates had been
breathed, and her soul had followed it on to
heaven.
They removed the body, a piteous sight,
and from the surrounding cells went up such
howling, shrieking, curses, and yells as if the

demons of hell, rejoicing at the awful tragedy,
were incarcerated there instead of human
effigies, and the thunder tones of Eben Bates
were heard over all as he struggled with the
keepers. It seemed impossible to master him.
With the strength of a dozen giants, he at-
tempted to free himself, and, whenever lie
could, he struck his head with unmerciful
violence against the bars of his cell.
At last, when exhaustion overpowered him
the reaction came. Unable to stand now, his
face became deathly pale, except where the
blood flowed freely from the self-inflicted
wounds on his forehead. He looked about
with strange, wild eyes. His chest heaved un-
steadily. Suddenly the life-current gushed
from his lips, and he sank to the ground by
the side of his daughter, with the light of
his immortal soul restored to him, if it so
pleased the infinite mercy of God.
CHAPTER II.
ONCE MORE AT THE PRIORY.
"How brooks your grace the air,
After tossing on the breaking seas?"
" Needs must I like it well."
KING RICHARD II.
THE morning after the funeral of Bessie Bates,
Montant was sitting by the window of his
room watching the white clouds that chased
each other in the distance. Apollo was hat-
tling for the mastery of the sky against the
hosts of Jupiter Pluvius, and the result seemed
doubtful. The broad expanse of the Sound
upon which the shadows sailed in ghostly
etigies of the clouds above, was hardly dis.
turbed by a ripple. He was contemplating the
late events, as detailed in the last chapter,
and blessing the kindness of Providence in
sparing Josephine.- while she who had been
laid in the grave but the day before had no
happiness in store for her, and could part with
life as a loathsome burden.
Bessie's funeral was unostentatious, and no
relative of the poor girl appeared to act as
chief mourner. Thus alone, though not un-
pitied, nor friendless, she was carried to a
hallowed resting-place, and no remembrance of
her father's crimes or uncle's iniquities marked
the mound that covered her remains, or em-
bittered her memory, among those who had
known and loved her.
It was Sunday morning, and Ernest had
before him a day free of business cares,
though his mind was full of anxiety. Joseph-
ine was sick, very sick, indeed. The shock
of Bessie's horrible death, following close upon
her own narrow escape, produced a fever so
alarming that physicians of the greatest repute
were summoned from the city to rub their
golden spectacles, and decide that it was best
to leave nature to work the cure alone, with-
out being weakened by drugging, and further
that they all and severally agreed that the
attendant physician was perfectly correct in
his mode of treatment.
As our hero arose with   sigh, to join the

family below, Walter stepped in, silent and
downcast. He had seen very little of Bessie
of late, and though they were engaged, as we
knew, their affection had never grown into
that closer and ide4tifyiig union of heart
and soul which is the result of long intimacy
between lovers. Perhaps his late trials had
somewhat hardened him against immoderate
grief, for we find him 'mourning his loss with
quiet resignation, and looking upon it more as
the merciful ending of a terrible existence, than
as a cruel bereavement.
After discussing the sad subject, the friends
descended to find Mr. Going at the breakfast
table, and Miss Jessie presiding over the tea
and coffee.
"I have been to Josephine's room," said
she, "and am happy to announce that she
finds herself much better. Have you seen her,
Mr. Montant ?"
"Yes," answered ,our hero, " I think we
may consider the danger has passed."
" Do you visit ladies in bed ?" asked Walter,
with a smile.
"She was up," answered the other, "and
lying on a sofa, and she had done this only
to enable her to receive my visit. Not alto-
gether according to the directions of the doc-
tor, I am afraid, but I am proud of this mark
of her affection, and I am sure it seems to me
that sha never looked handsomer."
"'Will you have tea or coffee this morning,
Walter ?" asked his sister.
" I think," said Mr. Going, " that the habits
of our other guests are intolerable. It is not
often that I speak harshly of any one, but this
vice of lying in bed till late in the morning
is, in my mind, an offense against decency and
respectability."
"I do not think that I should submit to it
for more than the few days we are compelled to
grant thpm," said the young housekeeper. " I
can understand that Mr. Fatman should be
fond of sleeping late, and take plenty of time
for his toilet, but I am certain his wife only
affects the weakness from a desire to ape
French manners."
" As for me," rejoined her father, "I can for-
give a woman sooner than a business man and
head of a family, for if the master of the house
does not sit at the head of the breakfast-table,
family and house become demoralized."
"Mr. Going." asked Montant, "does it not
seem certain that Fatman has lost heavily in
his late business transactions ?"
"Yes," answered the old gentleman, "and
this, added to his much criticised connection
with Hobgoblin, seems to be weakening his
credit considerably. At least, so I am told in
the city."
"1How strange that you made friends with
him again!1" cried Miss Jessie.
Her father shrugged his shoulders.
"This reconciliation," he answered, "brought
about, as you all know, by Mr. Paradise, has
not been without benefit to us. The suit of my
old firm against the trustees has been far more
satisfactorily arranged since Mr. Fatman goes
"hand-in-hand" with me now, ia good ear-
.nest."
"And mall your old friends have returned to

you," cried the young lady.  "I understand
that Mr. Paradise has promised to spend next
Sunday with us."
" Yes, my child. He has never given me
cause for complaint, and 'the services he ren-
dered to Ernest should alone entitle him to a
place in our hearts."
" Do these old friends esteem you or your
money?" persisted Miss Jessie. "While ruin-
ation threatened you, they treated you like a
stranger, as you told me yourself."
"There are always two phases of a ques-
tion," answered the old gentleman, with a smile,
" and it is wiser to choose the pleasanter one.
I might give it as my opinion that these friends
returned to m, not only on account of my
regained position, but, also, as a tribute to my
supposed sagacity displayed in preserving that
position triumphantly in spite of the danger.
if they knew how much is due to our good
friend here, they might think differeutly."
The young housekeeper pouted slightly at
the mention of Montant's services to the firm,
and, rising from the table, busied herself about
the room, apparently unconscious of his pres-
enee.
Our hero arose from the table and went up-
stairs to pay another visit to Josephine.  As
he entered the room, she was seated on her
sofa, a little breakfast-table before heer, and
the words, " Come in," in answer to his knock,
were somewhat interfered with by a piece of the
cutlet to which she was doing justice. As he
approached her, she had justsucceeded in swal-
lowing her mouthful, and looked up to him,
laughing, and showing an array of beautiful
teeth, half-concealed, half-disclosed by her full,
rosy lips.  11er mouth belonged rather to the
ample and luxurious, than to the delicate order,
and when a laugh extended over her fair fea-
tures, she presented such a picture as the god
of pleasure would have painted to beguile weary
man into forgetfulness of the harsh world.
Montant imifrinted a warm kiss upon that
upturned laughing mouth, and felt more satis-
lied than ever with his choice.
" How long do you intend to remain at the
Priory ?"
"Until my lord and master that is to be bids
me leave," she answered, mischievously.
"And how much longer ?" he asked, laugh-
ing.
" As long as I please "
"' But seriously, do you not think we had bet-
ter leave here as soon you are able to travel ?"
" Are you afraid of falling in love with Jes-
sie ? Does your prudence dictate this precau-
tion ?"
He drew her toward him, and kissing her
again, replied, with singular emphasis, "No."
"Then, why are you so anxious to leave ?"
she asked.  "I like this place. I am very
happy with the associations of this dear old
Priory."
" Do you remember the masquerade ?" he
asked, maliciously, "and our walk in the gar-
den, when you proposed to me?"
"I remember that a saucy boy enticed me
away from the house, and acted very foolishmly,
persisting in his nonsense until I engaged
myself to him to get rid of him."

FATE.                        143


GOING AND SON.

" You have not got rid of me yet," he cried.
"No, and I don't wish to 1" she answered,
with a look that caused him to repeat a certain
ceremony previously described. There is no
known method of ascertaining the exact num-
ber to which these repetitions might have
increased, had not the door opened, and a lady
stepped in hastily.
.I want to bid you good-bye, Mrs. Van
Strom," she said, hurriedly. "I am going to
church in the -illage."
Mrs. Fatman was muffled up in spite of the
warm spring weather, and though a veil cov-
ered her face, it did not escape Josephine that
she was excited.
"Why, what is the matter with you, Mrs.
Fatman ?" she asked, somewhat perplexed.
"Has any thimghappened?"
"Oh, no! only I am in a hurry, for it is get-
ting late!1"
"Are you going alone ?" asked the widow,
after the lady had kissed her with a warmth
too unlike her usual nonchalance not to startle
the recipient a little.
"Yes, my husband is just completing his
toilet, Jessie pleads a headache, Mr. Going
seems fatigued, Walter is still too melancholy
to show himself among people, and unless Mr.
Montant displays ordinary politeness and offers
to escort me, I must go alone."
"With your kind permission, Mr. Montant
will stay where he is," said Josephine.
"I must confess, I think this lady more in
need of company than you, Mrs. Fatman," said
our hero, smiling. "So, since I must choose
where my knightly services are most needed,
I am compelled to say that my duty keeps me
here."
"Oh, irksome duty! How you must suffer
under your cruel fetters!" cried Mrs. Fatman,
turning to leave the room. Montant assisted
her to the carriage, which was waiting at the
door, and returned to his lady-love.  They
were having a glorious good time, when Walter
sauntered in.
"iDo you know where Jessie is ?"
"I have not seen her since breakfast,"
replied our hero, "nor has Josephine, for I
have been bothering her with my company
ever since."
"Your calling Mrs. Van Strom by her Chris-
tian narve reminds me tlfat I have never con-
gratulated you, you vagabond I Here is my
hand, old fellow, and allow me to say I con-
sider you about as lucky a dog as I ever knew
in my life."
"If you want to tell me sweet things, it is
not necessary that you should speak through
him," said Josephine, blushing a little, but
very happy.
"I have only to say to you," he replied,
"that, although he hardly deserves his good
luck, you have no reason to complain, and I
wish you all happiness-more happiness than
is in store for me."
After a few minutes of desultory conversa-
tion, Walter cried, suddenly:
I have something to tell you, Ernest, that
I could not recall unti, just now."
"Well, what is it ?"
.I saw a friend of yours at the village yes-

terday, unless my eyes deceived me most won-
derfully."
" And who may that be ?"
" Stilletto."
Montant looked at him in amazement. The
widow was frightened.
"He was dressed like a farmer," continued
Walter,. " but his is one of those marked coun-
tenances difficult to forget."
" Did you speak to him?  If you were cer-
tain of the man, why did you allow him to es-
cape ?"
"A man in my present state of mind may be
excused for slowness of action," replied Walter,
gloomily. "He must have recognized me long
before I saw through his disguise, for hardly
had I noticed his peculiar face, than he quickly
turned a corner ; and, though I pursued him,
seemed to have stink into the ground, for he
was nowhere to be seen."
"You don't know how it frightens me to
hear that dreadful man is in the neighborhood,"
said Josephine, with a dismal face.
"I do not think he will dare do more than
sneak around for some object he has in view,
and that object, I can't imagine to concern our-
selves or this house," said her lover.
" Iow do you suppose he got away from the
court-room in time to avoid a re-arrest after the
trial ?" asked Walter.
"I think Stump gave him warning that Mar-
tin Bates and the Italian girl were-coming,"
answered our hero.
"But Paradise had given this very man,
Stump, secret instructions not to lose sight of
him, and to prevent his escape at all hazards."
" True. But, for once, Paradise mistook his
man," said Montant. " At all events, a mystery
still envelops the whole proceeding."
"I hope he will leave us alone for the fu-
ture," whispered Josephine.
" If he molests us again, I hope I may be
awake and present when he appears," cried
Walter. "We have all been too good-hearted
and too easy of approach by ill-meaning ras-
cals. But, Mrs. Van Strom, let me assure you,
that as long as my dogs, my pistols, and myself
remain in good condition, Stilletto shall not en-
ter this house without paying for it. Now,
don't you think I deserve a kiss for this gallant
speech ?"
" You do," answered Josephine, laughing,
but as we must all wait for our rewards, I
shall postpone yours till my wedding-day."
" When will that be?" asked Walter.
"In a month from now, I hope," answered
Montant. "We have postponed it, I might al-
most say, from week to week ; but I do not be-
lieve in abusing good fortune, or in trusting too
long to the jealous gods."
"Superstitious people say, that a wedding
several times postponed is postponed forever,"
said Walter; ard, as his remark was not re-
ceived with enthusiasm, he chirruped to a dog
that had accompanied him on his visit, and left
the room.
"Ours won't be postponed forever, will it,
darling ?" cried Josephine, the tears starting to
her eyes-.
" No," he answered, firmly. "Not unless
Heaven puts in a veto."

"Mrs. Fatman ought to be home by this that if you can only catch her, she will be
time." said Mr. Going, in the dining-room, to suddenly infatuated with you again and be
Walter, who had found his sister communing willing to return."
with herself in solitude, Wandering about .the  "She will, she willI"
grounds, and accompanied her home.          " Did she absquatulate, or was she stolen ?"
The door opened. and Josephine appeared on  " Well-but-"
the arm of her lover, fresh and blooming as  "But still you expect her to return, willingly?
early morning.                            A queer notion."
"I want to say ' good-morning' to you, sir," " Let me only see her, and all will be right,
she said, stepping up to'Mr. Going's arm-chair, or I'll get a divorce this very week."
and touching his forehead with her lips. Car- " That would be harrowing to her feelings,
riage wheels were heard out doors, and the to judge by her late action."
heavy footfalls of Mr. Fatman sounded through  "But let me only catch him!" cried Mr.
the hall, as he came down-stairs to greet his Fatman, indulging in a pugilistic dance around
wife. Before any of the gentlemen had deter- the room.
mined whether to go to the door and welcome  -'Only let us I" Walter joined in, taking a
that pious lady on her return from divine ser- mocking part in the performance.
vice, or to be satisfied with permitting her lius- "Come on I" cried Fatman, puffing and
band to monopolize her, a confusion of noises furious.
reached the diuing-room. Soon, Fatman open.  "Come on is the word," roared Walter,
ed the door, violently, and stood before them "and damned be he, et cetera."
like one distraught-his eyes starting from their
sockets, his features distorted with rage, and a
cold perspiration on his fat face.
"She is gone I" he gasped.                           CHAPTER III.
"Who is gone ?" cried Walter, jumping to
his. feet.                                          FREsH coMPLIcATIONS.
"My wife I" fairly shrieked Mr. Fatman,   "t
every fiber of his fat body quivering with ex  To blaze your marriage, reconcile youi friendss"
citement. " My wife! my wife She has elopedI"                     RoMEo AND JULIET.
" Who with ?"
"I don't know," answered the bereaved bus-  "ERNEST," said Josephine to our hero, "I
band, breathlessly. "She went to church in am well enough to travel, and it would look
the village, and before the service was over, like abusing the hospitality of our friends to
came out and told Patrick to drive home alone, stay longer. I would not for the world im-
and to tell me that there was a letter for me in pose on their kindness, particularly just now,
the drawer of her writing-desk. Here it is." because they might think, you know-"
Walter glanced at it hurriedly. With a    " What might they think, baby ?"
sneer he threw it back to Mr. Fatman, and said,  "They might think that since you and I
disdainfully: "It does not say who your suc- rendered them a great service in the time of
cessor is; but I can tell you."           the greatest trouble and danger-"
" Who is it ?" roared Mr. Fatman, suddenly  " Do not distress yourself on that point,
reddening till his countenance assumed the Josephine; I have succeeded in making that
hue of a boiled lobster. " What is his name ? burden of gratitude as light as possible under
Speak!"                                   the circumstances, and I do not think Mr.
" Antonio Stilletto."                   Going considers the loan I made him as more
He seemed to be staggered at the sound of than, a becoming act of natural gratitude on
the name; but recovering himself, said, tremu- my part. Besides, fortune has favored all our
lously,-                                  operations in so great, I may say in an almost
" Help me, gentlemen, help me to find them. wonderful manner, that we can already predict
I am like a perfect child."               the time when we can repay the money to you.
" I am at your service," said Walter, calmly. I do not believe the profits of the firm were
" You are my best friend, Walter."      ever so large as they have been since its credit
" Come, let us be off at once."         and standing were suddenly re-established by
"At once, at once I"                    our timely aid. Their former customers are
"I1and-in-hand for good this time," -said returning to us, and besides the prosperity of
Walter, maliciously, and they preparedhurriedly a large legitimate business, every venture that
for their journey..                       we undertake seems certain to coin gold upder
"We'll find her, won't we ?" cried Fatman, our hands."
in the heat of preparation,.                "All because it is you that manage affairs I"
" Of course we will."                   she said, proudly, and with the air of an oracle.
"And bring her back ?"                    "Since, by rights, a wife should have a good
"If she will come," suggested Walter, coolly. opinion of her husband, I will allow you to
"Sir?"                                  think so," he replied, laughing.
" I mean what I say."                     They were sitting together on the piazza of
"You insult me, sir. You wrong-'       the Priory, for a premature summer day made
"Nonsense I" interrupted the other, who in the air soft and warm. A servant approached,
spite of their recent reconciliation did not care and handed Mrs. Van Strom a letter.
to be very sparing of his late bitter enemy. '- From Bella," she said, breaking the seal.
"You are as silly as most gentlemen of your  Montant watched her as she perused it, and
age ; your wife i'uns away, and you imagine marked how die color mounted to her face.
10

144

FATE.

145


GOING AND SON.

In an excited-almost angry manner, she
handed him the note, and he read the follow-
ing:-
" DEAR JoSEPHINE'-
" It seems that the hand of fate has decided
to throw you into the bosom of your present
hosts. If you find them desirous of a pro-
tracted stay, I would suggest that you had
better enjoy yourself at the Priory a little
while longer, as I am house-cleaning, and can not
offer you the comforts or the pleasures you are
now enjoying. Perhaps Mr. Montant will
agree with me that it is better to defer your
return until after the wedding, whenever that
may be."-
" Your faithful sister,
"BELLA."
Josephine, in turn, observed him closely
until he finished the note, and he did not
attempt to disguise his disapproval and vexa-
tion.
"I declare," said Josephine, "if this was
not written in Bella's round handwriting, I
would never believe she could have written to
me so cold and disagreeable a letter."
" Well, we can't help it now," he replied, in
a peculiar tone.
"; Can it be that you prefer to remain here ?
That in spite of all our vows and our ap-
proaching marriage, there is something in your
heart which ties you to this spot, to this
family-to some one besides myself2"
She had clasped her hands, and looked up to
him imploringly. He replied, almost sternly:-
"There is one duty you seem to have for-
gotten, and upon it all other duties are based.
It is confidence. If you wish to preserve my
affection and loyalty to you, let me never
again hear a question like this, or discover in
you a shadow of such feelings as prompted it.
I believe that she who doubts loves perfectly
no longer."
le arose, angry and perturbed. Miserably
frightened, she threw her arms around him,
and implored his forgiveness.
"Bella is the cause of it all," he said, not at
all modified. "I expected that the simplicity
of her mind would keep her from such suspi-
cions and hints as are contained in that letter.
As it is, I can not help seeing that she has
estranged herself from us in a manner that
hardly admits of an effectual reconciliation."
Josephine was unhappy for the rest of the
day, and though she did her best to make him
forget her ill-timed speech of the morning,
while he endeavored to be as affectionate-as
of old, there was a something between them
which was not there before, and they both
knew it.
In this unpleasant frame of mind we find
him sauntering alone through the park.
Though night was fast approaching, he walked
to the extreme point of the island; though the
dark clouds were hanging low over the black-
ening waters, he walked along the beach,
where jagged rocks were strewn like old weird
tombstones.
His soul, agitated with conflicting emotions,
took refuge in memory. Looking out over the
waves which broke at his feet, the song of

the great German poet, Heine, came to his
mind, and ie quoted to himself:--
"Oh, solve me the riddle of life I
That tortimrin riddle of oldI
Ohint temi me what sigaifies man ?"
*    *     *    * *ao     *    *
"The billows are breaking high up on the beach
The inds bow freshla nditie waves flow fast
The stars are shining, unfeeline and coli, '
And a fool may await the answer!"
But the powers of the night answered him-
in his solitude, the voices of the dark waves
spoke to him.   le listened, and  was an-
swered:-
" Man is the crowning work of the Almighty,
and we are created to struggle through life,
and conquer the storms and dangers of our
existence, just as the tree vegetates into its
prime, healing the wound where a lib has
been - lopped, and resisting the destructive
storm. When a tree stands with its leafy
head proudly erect, it has fulfilled its mission,
and when a human soul conquers the trials of
life's rough changes, that soul has done its
duty and the Creator is proud of his work.
This is the teaching of nature."
"But what sphere is assigned to me? Shall
I follow the dictates of my heart, or the cold
conchusions of reason. Which points out the'
path of duty ? May not human reason be mis-
taken, and through a mistaken view of duty
lead to ultimate mischief?   May it not be
safer to trust to the heart alone ?"
le retraced his steps toward the house, and
from afar, the lighted windows guided him
through the quickly increasing darkness.
Sounds of music greeted him, and as he ap-
proached, the front of the grand old mansion,
with its columns, broad steps, and substantial
balustrades, impressed him with the stateliness
of an old chateau.
lie entered. Through the thick walls and
closed doors the sounds of music had reached
him but indistinctly. le now heard Jessie's
sweet, sympathetic voice singing an old ballad
-a German ballad. le listened a moment,
and then stepped softly into the drawing-room.
The young lady, though not alone, seemed to
be singing for her own amusement, for her
father, interested in his newspaper, at the
other end of the room, as well as Josephine,
reclining on a sofa, seemed unconscious of the
fair performance of the fairer performer.
" If I were a sensual man, when it comes to
the question  of a love which    is to last
through life, and as long after life as Heaven
permits, I would choose that Venus on the sofa,
did the choice lay between these two. But in-
nocence and purity alone can kindle true ethe-
real love in a man's breast, and though, per-
haps, the woman is not born who holds a
fairer virtue than Josephine-"
At this moment the widow changed her
position, and noticing him, arose with a flushed
face and an anxious, tenderly   reproachful
look in her eye.
"Where have you been, Ernest?" she whis-
pered. "Oh, if you knew what a miserable
day I have spent!"
Jessie had finished her song, and when she

left the piano, she cast a casual, indifferent
look on the lovers,-then joined her father,
and drawing a chair to sit near him, said:-
" I wish Walter would return. I am nerv-
ons about him, for who knows what bad men
he may meet. Besides, I do not feel safe here
without him." -
Montant followed her with his eyes, and
felt mortified at her last speech.. Josephine
clung to him, awaiting his answer, and with
a great effort .to speak kindly, he answer-
ed:-
"You must not be too exacting, Josephine!
I have been out of sorts to-day, so give inc
until to-morrow to become myself again. I
will be all right to-morrow. And now let
me go.   I must talk business with Mr.
Going."
She looked at him in astonishment; but he
had already left her side. le read in her face
how deeply his slight and unintentional rebuff
had wounded her, so he led her into the hall,
and as she passively allowed him. to kiss her
(she did not seek or return it as usual), he
whispered:-
" You are a child. You must not be so sen-
sitive, or how shall we ever get through life,
which does not always keep a man loviiig and
smooth-tempered. Excuse me to-day, and to-
morrow I will make up for my ill-humor."
" Good-night, then.  I am going to my
room. I don't feel strong."
He bent over to kiss her "good-night,"
when her dejected, apathetic iannirer suddenly
changed, and throwing her arms around him,
she burst into tears.
"Josephine," he murmured, with surprise
and annoyance, " Josephine, do not take my
whims to heart.  Surely, I have not been
guilty of unkindness to you. Not one woman
in a tiousanl would have found cause for sor-
row in any thing that I have said to you."
He led her gently up-stairs to the door of her
room, and they parted with mutual assurances
of love; she to remain sleepless with an ach-
ing head and heart for many hours,-he to
commune angrily with himself, pacing the hall,
while Jessie was talking to her father in the
drawing-room.
" 'Ntlerose sans spines,'" he quoted. " If a
man finds a wife who loves him passionately
with all her warm and sensitive heart, he must
expect to be scolded and accused of heaven
knows what nonsense whenever he frowns or
speaks an impatient word. 'No rose without
a thorn.'"
Then he stepped into the drawing-room to
talk about business with Mr. Going.
- No sooner had he taken a seat near them,
than Miss Jessie arose to leave the room.
" You had better remain, mademoiselle," he
said, without looking up from some papers he
was examining.   " Your father has always
confided in you, and I believe has consulted
you on some occasions. What we mean to
discuss to-night regards some property which
your father desires to transfer to your name:
so, you see,-you are interested."
"My advice, when given, has never beenr
followed," she replied, arresting her -stepm
without condescending to turn back, " and

am tired of exerting my wisdom to no purpose ;
so, good-night I"
"As you wish, of course" said Montant.
" The only desire I would express before
resigning my position of confidential adviser
to the house of Going," she said, languidly,
"is that all debts and burdensome obligations
be discharged as soon as possible. 1 think
nothing should be given to me until we are mre-
lieved from the humiliating debt of gratitude
which we now owe to an outside party."
"You owe it to me alone," said Montant,
quickly, but repented the words when she
replied, quietly,-
"No matter to whom we owe it. I told
-papa, long ago, that I can't bear to be under
obligations to any one, and instead of consent-
ing to have property transferred to me at pres-
ent, I would far rather be permitted to work
with  my hands    until that disagreeable,
odious debt be discharged." With these
words, she left the room.
Unobserved by the old gentleman, who
seemed vexed and nervous at his daughter's
speech, Montant changed color and thought,
bitterly,-
"She actually hates me. Calls me an out-
side party, and my loan-odious!  Ier pride
inspires her with dislike toward those to
whom she owes gratitude. H1er injustice is a
strange reward for my friendship."
CHAPTER IV.
A VISIT TO THE GREAT PHILOSOPHER.
" Oh, how comes it that thou art those stranded from
th~ysetry"         CoMEDY ogr Eiumonis.
MoNrrANT's conversation concerning  mat-
ters of business resulted in his leaving the
Priory very early next morning to allow hium-
self the requisite time to attend to what they
had decided should be done, so Josephine,
who was not dressed in time to see him before
he started, spent another miserable day.
lie came back from the city quite late, and
found that after an absence of three days,
Walter and Mr. Fatnman had returned from
their search after the eloped lady.
" Ernest," said Walter, " we have company
in the house, to wit: our two old friends, who
have recently received the distinguished title
of the Daumon and Pythias of New York, be-
cause they are inseparable companions. You
may guess that we have the honor of enter-
taitning Faro and Wheeler within these justly
proud walls. But, eat your dinner, we are
through ours long ago, and then join Fatman,
father, and me, in the drawing-room, while
Jessie and Mrs. Van Strom may amuse the
I two noble youths in the parlor. We have a
great deal to report, and are waiting your
presence to begin."
;  Have you found her?"
"No; and yes. Go in and eat your din-
nenr!"
sAnd as Josephine was already in the parlor
I entertaining one of the noble youths, Montant

146

147

FATE.


148                             GOING AND SON.
again failed to see her alone. Shortly after them, and Miss Jessie declared, with anima.
his dinner, he was listening to Walter's ac- tion,-
count in the library, while Fatman sat by, mute  " Oh, yes! I am going. I would love to
and pale-a miserable man.                 ride with such a large escort."
"That Stilletto is a genius," said Walter. " How is it with you, Mrs. Van Strom ?"
In spite of our most untiring efforts, we have  "I would like to go," she replied, coloring
lost all tracks of the couple. It seems that slightly, "but I have not mounted a horse
Madam met him before church was out, and since I was a little girl, and I think I will keep
they drove off in a light-wagon  together. Mr. Going company."
Where that wagon went to is a mystery, We   " That's right," said the old gentleman, tak.
could not trace it at all, and so went on to ing her hand affectionately. "We can take
New   York, quite despondent of success. care of ourselves, can't we, Mrs. Van Strom ?"
There we spent a day consulting the police  So the party was arranged, and all were
authorities, and this morning, as Fatman  busy discussing who should ride this or that
was driving me home from town, we passed a horse, while Mr. Faro suggested that one of his
cottage situated about twelve miles from here, pair, now in the stables, should be mustered
near the suburbs of the city. Who do you into service. Josephine only was quiet andl
suppose was smoking his pipe in front of the depressed. Montant caught an imploring look
cottage, Ernest ?"                        of her blue eyes, and, understanding it, follow.
" Well, who was it ?"                   ed her when she soon after left the room.
" Muller. The great philosopher. Stilletto's  " Ernest," she asked, when they met alone in
most intimate friend."                   the library, ',must you go, too?"
Montant listened attentively.             " Yes, darling," he answered, tenderly. His
"It occurred to me," continued Walter, that heart smote him when he saw her unhappiness
S'illetto, like the majority of rogues, must and deep dejection.
have a confidant-"                          "Is it necessary that you should ?  We could
"Pardon me," interrupted our hero, " I am  have such a happy day to-morrow all alone,
quite certain that Stilletto never had a real and I have so much to tell you," she pleaded.
confidant in his life. I am convinced that  Since she was one of the few who knew of
Muller was totally ignorant of the truth about Mrs. Fatman's flight, he was able to tell her
John Van Strom's murder."                 Waiter's adventures as he had just heard them,
\\Wait a moment," continued Walter. "We and though to be without him all that holiday
made a halt, and I entered imto conversation  to which she had looked forward with delight-
with him. le said that he had bought the ful anticipation, gave her much pain, she could
cottage, having saved enough to pay for so not help recognizing the necessity.
modest a honie, and that lie lived there in  " Muller woul not send for me unless the
peace with his beloved wife and blooming ehil- matter was important. Who knows but what
dren. When I commenced to question him   there may be more in store for us to-morrow,
about Stilletto, he branched offinto elaborate than the tracing of that false woman I"
nonsense, always avoiding a direct answer to  " Who knows ?"
my questions. While indulging in his crazy    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
rhetoric, lie watched Mr. Fatman like a cat,  Early next morning a scene presented itself
and something in his twinkling eye told us calculated to gladden the eye of any jovial gen-
that he knew all about the elopement, though  tleman. In front of the house was a gay as-
we had never mentioned it at all. Suddenly, semblage of fine horses and bustling grooms,
le said to me, ' Mr. Goimg, I understand that and the equestrians busy with their preparations
Mr. Montant is staying at your house.  To. appeared on the piazza to give the grooms
morrow is set aside as a day of lusting and final instructions concerning buckles, bridles,
prayer, will you tell Mr. Montant to pay me a and stirrups. In the center of these stamping,
visit to-morrow, and, Mr. Fatman, will you  neighing, impatient nags, stood Miss Jessie's
come also?  Conic to August Muller, gentle- horse, awaiting its mistress with dignity, dis-
men, and August Muller will help you.'    daining in calm superiority to join the pranks of
I inquired whether I would be permitted  the others.
to join you, and having received a gracious  It was a lovely day-the sun bright and
affirmative, we promised to come to-morrow; warm, the air clear and fresh, the sky uncloud-
you, Fatman, and I."                      ed. The evergreen trees looked bright and
After some consultation, they arose and sunr.mer-like, while even the bare branches of
joined the party in the parlor,          the othersglittered in the sun and looked less
"Gentlemen." said Walter, "we three in- desolate.
tend to have a ride on horseback to-morrow.  Mr. Going came down from his room to see
Mr. Fatman has not yet removed all his horses the party set off, and now the knot of gentle-
from our stables, so we have the necessary men unties itself to make way respectfully for
outfit to be able to extend an invitation to Miss Jessie. who stepped out on the piazza,
you, if you would like to be of the party. Only looking like the blooming queen of the spring
we will be obliged to part company with you day. Montant, who had already taken leave of
for perhaps half-an-hour, or may be an hour, Josephine up-stairs, remained in the background
as we have butsitiess to attend to at a place when 'Jessie appeared. Once more, did his
about twelve miles down the road. What do heart beat violently, when the beautiful girl
you say ?"descended with all her bewitching charms, her
Messieurs Faro and Wheeler signified their graceful blue habit, the color and the bright
satisfaction, provided the ladies would join laugh on her lovely tace, and her riding-hait

FATE.                          149

with a gray feather sitting saucily on her rich
raven tresses,,loosely confined in a long, grace-
fully-arranged net.
He turned away. She had not noticed him,
and he was the last of the gentlemen as they
escorted her to her horse in a body. Walter
lifted her into the saddle. A few moments of
bustle and merry confusion, and away they
went, Jessie in front, Faro, Wheeler, and Wal-
ter close to her. while Montant, who had been
used to the saddle from childhood, curbed his
impatient horse to keep pace with Mr. Fatman's
heavy cob, imported from England on purpose
to carry his bulky weight with ease and
safety.
After a sharp ride, they reached a point on
the road where Walter commanded a halt, which
soon brought the horses' heads together, and a
consultation ensued.
" Well," said Mr. Wheeler, " since you three
must tear yourselves away, I'mean to propose-
that is, if Miss Jessie is willing-that we ride
on to my father's place, not two miles off. I
know my sister Sallie will be-alh-delighted
to see you, Miss Going, and if Walter says there
is nothing-ah---improper, and as a rest won't
hurt the horses-I do, in fact, inviteyou to come;
and the others can call for us when they get
through."
All agreed, and a moment later Montant
watched them ride off at a hand-gallop, Jessie
in the midst, faithfully supported on the right
and left by her old admirers.
"Talk about vanity," he muttered. " I do
not blame any man for aspiring to the vanity
of showing the world such a wife as that I By
heaven t she is a perfect queen, and he who
possesses her,-the first and only man privileg-
ed to kiss those proud lips, and receive the
homage that meets her at every turn as half
his own due,-he will be a lucky man. I won-
der whether one of those old beaux will not
get her finally, stupid and shallow though they
be. I don't think she can love any one, so I
suppose she will take it into her head some
day to thow herself away, and she will easily
succeed."
They reached the cottage described by Wal-
ter as the philosopher's home. A neat, well.
kept plat of grass covered the slight ascent
from'the road to Mr. Muller's modest door, and
there they beheld the great thinker, basking in
the sunlight that shone in under the roof of a
neat porch. He had his beer before him on a
little round table, and from his pipe ascended
the smoke-wreaths of peace, and completed the
majestic tranquillity of Mr. August Muller.
"Welcome to my house, welcome to my
heart and to my bhore," ie said, risig.
"Rarely doesAugust Muller, in the seclusion
from the world. which lie has of late chosen
enjoy the gratification of receiving so distin
guished a trio.  Here we have the young
merchant, with the good old name (shaking
hands with Walter). IIere we have the young
merchant with an old head (greeting our hero)
and here we have the tower of strength an
substantiality, bodily, financially, and charac
teristically, if I may so express-myself."
" You may," answered Fatman;- " but let u:
find a place to tie our horses." '

" This post is not bulky, but it is true
wood," said the philosopher.   " Truth is
mighty, though it be slim (with a glance at Mr.
Fatman's 'corpulence and at his own meager-
ness); but to come to business; let me ask
you, Mr. Going, and you, Mr. Fatman, to con-
tent yourselves with these two chairs, while I
take this young gentleman into the house, to
speak with him upon matters of some import-
ance."
When they found themselves alone in the
parlor, Muller addressed  our hero in  a
whisper:-
" Will you lend me an ear, if I make one
preliminary remark before entering upon this
sad subject of Mrs. Fatman's strange halluci-
nation, and her unjustifiable elopement with
my late friend, Stilletto'?"
"So, you know all about it?" cried Montant.
" I do."
" Have they gone very far ; and is she de-
termined to stick to her vile paramour ?"
" Let me suggest that the latter of your
questions be reversed; and permit tme to con-
sider that you have asked me, Will he stick to
her ?"
Montant looked at the lawyer inquiringly.
"It is even so," said the philosopher. "'The
question is, will he stick to her who has been
another's wife?  It is rare that men fall truly
in love with others' wives. Generally, such
love is based upon a passion which my good
taste -forbids me to name. I pretend to be
able to prove that even a widow can not, and
should not, so fascinate-"
" Enough of that," cried Montant, flushed
and angry. " Come to business."
" But I must first ask you this question.
Are you convinced that August Muller is to-
tally innocent of any knowledge, conniving, or
assisting in the murder of John Van Strom?"
lie asked the question in a trembling voice.
A feeling nobler than his wretched conceit
prompted him, and the " August Muller " came
with a sad-almost anguished--tone, from his
lips; not at all like his usual sonorous poin-
posity.
Montant was moved to acknowledge to him
his convictions. The fact was apparent, and
had been clearly developed in the inquiries
made by the authorities, after Stilletto was
proved the murderer, that Muller was per-
fectly innocent of the murder, or of any pre-
vious knowledge of it.
"I thank you," said the philosopher, and his
face was distorted by a more honest than fas-
cinating twitching around the corners of his
homely mouth. "I am truly grateful to you
for this satisfaction. It is the only pleasure I
have enjoyed for a long while, Mr. Montant. I
once hated you; but you see, I am poor now,
and poor men seek every one's friendship."
"I thought you owned this house ?"
"I do, sir; but I must sell it again. My
creditors have taken a great fancy to cultivate
my acquaintance, Mr. Montant, and the enthu-
 siastic manner in which they admire my house
- when they call to see me, is a subject for any
student of human nature."
sThe philosopher looked very much crest-
fallen, and as the twitching of his mouth, by


GOING AND SON.

FATE.                         151

some physiognomical mechanism, forced the
tears into his little red eyes, Montant felt
heartily sorry for him.
" Well, what do you want of me ?" he asked,
not wishing to yield to his pity for a man he
knew to be, if not a criminal, at least a very
questionable character.
"I sent for you," replied Mr. Muller, "be-
cause you are the most reliable man among
those who interest themselves in this elope-
ment. I want to obtain your word that I am
to receive a thousand dollars if I bring Mrs.
Fatman face to face with the man of her pre-
vious choice; in fact, with her husband."
Montant seemed to consider the matter.
"My study of human nature," continued the
philosopher, "has always dwelt with peculiar
interest upon the subject of self-preservation.
It is strange how this heaven-born faculty, or
instinct, or, if I may so express it, this purely
subjective mental moving power is connected
with all our nobler attributes. Honesty, piety,
virtue, self-control, moderation, abstenious-
ness, and all their train of dependent virtues.
Thus you see that I combine iy instinct of
self-preservation with the desire to be honest,
and help my neighbors. What say you to the
thousand dollars ?"
" Honesty is its own reward, I have heard
say."
" A mere perversion of an old proverb, I
assure you. Now-"
" You shall have the money," interrupted
our hero, who knew Mr. Fatman's anxiety to
behold his wife would not hesitate at such an
obstacle. " And, now, where is she ?"
"I am to receive that sun whether Mr. Fat-
man induces her to return home, or not?"
" Yes."
"When?    Now ?" he asked, greedily.
"No. As soon as he has met her; and that
must be in a place where he has control over
her movements."
The philosopher nodded.
"You see I trust you," he said. "I wanted
to deal with some one whose word would he
reliable. Besides, I feel like a happier, aye,
and a better nan, since you, that have sutffered
so much from Stilletto, have acknowledged to
me that I am innocent."
"Where is she?"
" Here, in this house."
Montant started.
"And Stilletto?" he asked.
Away ; I don't know where," replied the
philosopher. ''But send Mr. Fatman in, and
promise to remain outside, to see that I get my
thousand dollars."
"I will give you my check for it if all is as
you say."
"I am satisfied."
So our hero went to the front door, and
without further explanation, requested Mr.
Fatman to step in.
Walter and Montant waited half-an-hour-
an hour. The philosopher joined them, re-
porting that "they are engaged in the deepest
kind of soul-engaging discourse"
Finally, Mr. Fatman came out of the house-
Muller, with some tact, withdrew. Hot tears
relied down the afflicted husband's round

cheeks, and sobs agitated him, so that it was
some time before he could tell them,-
"She loves the scoundrel. She consented
to this interview, because she wanted us to
understand each other. She has robbed ate
of thousands, and has turned the money over
to Stilletto. She says the rack could not make
her disclose his whereabouts; but--hear this,
gentlemen! She means to rejoin him unless I
prefer to take her, who has robbed and dis-
honored me, back to my house."
"Cool," cried Walter.
" She says she married me for my money
only-I married her from love!"
Mr. Fatmnan was deeply affected.
"A good riddance, I should say," muttered
Walter.
"She says that I need not expect her ever
to love me, even if I choose to receive her
again, and that only her respect for decency
induces her to consent to it."
"Do you suppose this cool effrontery is
natural to her character, or has her sweet friend
probably taught her all this nice lesson?"
"I don't know. I do not understand her.
I can not and will not believe that she was
always as bad as this at heart."
" Couldn't you have used your riding-whip
in there to advantage?" asked Walter, pacing
the lawn.
"No. I do not know why I felt nothing like
anger-only intolerable gr'ief as she spoke
thus to me.'-
"Now, here we have an instance of the
truth that no human being is entirely hard.
hearted," soliloquized our hero. " Who would
have thought Fatman capable of this 9"
" Now, gentlemen, what shall I do ?" asked
the disconsolate man.
"Let her go 1" cried Walter.
" I have children by her!"
" Your fatherly duty compels you to keep
them away from such a mother."
" My name will be dishonored I"
"Better your name than your home, your
house, your bed, and good conscience!1" cried
Walter.
"Well, I will--hut, though a higher power
will punish her, if I catch Stilletto-"
" Don't kill him," interrupted Walter. " If
Madame has only tenacity enough to stick to
him well, she will be quite sutlicient punish-
ment. As far as the money is concerned-is
it cash, or checks, or bonds, or what ?"
" Mostly railroad bonds, I only happened to
carry in my pocket-book over Sunday. I had
not thought of them since."
"Then it is possible to recover a portion.
The detectives are on his track any way to
earn the tea thousand dollars reward offered
for his apprehension as the murderer of John
Van Strom. If you advertise the numbers of
the bonds-"
"She took the leaf out of my book whee I
had a list of the numbers, so that is impossible.
That devil's whelp told her how to make all
safe."
'A wonderful fellow is this Stilletto." ex-
claimed Walter.
And so Mr. Fatman got rid of his wife.
A fter another conversation with Mrs. Fat.-

man, her husband turned his cob's head home. s
ward, alone and in deep melancholy, while theg
others rode on to find the rest of the party at
Mr. Wheeler's house. This family belonged tov
the old settlers, very nice people, who abound I
in Westchester County, and they knew how
to entertain their guests so well that it wasr
late before the latter found themselves on I
their homeward road.
Miss Jessie, surrounded by her four cav- I
aliers, directed the order of the march.
" We have only a few minutes of good day-
light left," she said, to Mr. Faro, " so let us.
have some excitement before darkness sets in.
I propose that Mr. Wheeler and Mr. Montantt
have a race from here to where yonder treeI
marks the- foot of the hill. On, gentlemen1"I
she cried with animation. " The winner shall
kiss my hand."
"Well, I suppose that Mademoiselle must
be humored," said Montaut, who was riding
behind her.
" Mademoiselle is accustomed to being hu-I
mored," she replied, turning toward him, and
laughing merrily. "Now, then! Walter and
1 will be judges."
Off they started. Montant had so far had
trouble in restraining his horse, which now
darted off with frantic delight.
" flow well Ernest rides," exclaimed Walter,
in honest admiration.
" Splendidly,".corroborated his sister, with
sparkling eyes. "Let's after them."
They galloped on, and were near enough to
the tree to distinguish Montant as the winner.
" You may touch your lips to my hand, you
most fortunate of knights," said Miss Jessie,
blushing considerably through her hilarity,
and proceeded to extract said hand from her
riding gauntlet. He rode up close to her, and
bending low, that no one else could understand
his words, he said,-
"You do not like to be under obligations. I
do not like to receive rewards."
He dropped her little hand, and resumed his
old place by Walter, just behind icr.
Miss Jessie flushed with vexation.
For awhile they rode at a rapidpace, which
the lady selected, and in consequence but few
words were exchanged. The sun was down, and
the new moon stood bright in the sky. Ihalf
the homeward road had yet to be passed, when
Miss Jessie checked her horse, and said:-
"Gentlemen, I think I have done my duty
to you as your hostess, and have entertained
you splendidly all day. You must now excuse
me. I want to speak to our dumb friend,
whom Walter seems quite incapable of cheer-
ing into a sign of life."
So saying, she deliberately reined in her
horse to Montant's side, and Walter, accus-
tomed from boyhood to humor his sister, rode
on with the disconsolate Wheeler and the in-
vective Faro.
'" Mr. Montant," said Jessie, " I have been,
and am still, a wayward, spoiled child. The
hard lessons of life found mae unprepared to
meet them as I should, amnd they have per-
verted runny of my better impulses. Especially
in speaking and acting when with my friends,
on trivial occasionis, have I been more than

illy-often very, very wrong. Will you for-
give me ?"
This was one of her moods-the only mood
worthy of her real character. Her noble heart,
her good sense, and generous disposition, spoke
when she accosted him in this strain, and the
maidenly modesty, the holy purity of the girl,
ent her a fascination he knew of old, and no
vow, no duty, no strength of will could enable
him to shake it off now.
He' answered her with a fervor to which
she listened with downcast eyes and halt-
averted face.
They spoke of the days that were gone. Of
the Priory-as it was when old Mr. Van Strom
held his crazy revelries-of the jolly times
they had enjoyed in the Fifth Avenue house,
and the merry dances they had danced to-
gether. The moon, which stood high and
shone into their hearts, had before this been
the only witness of many an earnest, many an
enthusiastic exchange of thoughts between
them. Their conversation turned upon the
deeper and holier subjects of life, and Montant,
inspired by the genius of the hour, spoke with
an eloquence he rarely felt disposed to develop.
And she replied with all the warmth of her
young heart, filled with a sense of the intelli-
gence, the worth, and the power of the man
at her side. Completely lost in -each other,
they rode on, while their horses seemed to un-
derstand that the riders were in no hurry, and
crept on slowly as docile lambs. 11er rich
and manifold character, her loyal and devout
soul, and her warni, generous heart, disclosed
themselves to him, while she realized his
whole excellence. Once sie had loved him,
but never had she understood him as to-day.
It was an hour in which they forgot the whole
world; it was an hour to remain in their mem-
ories for ever!1
" I wish," he said, as they approached the
Priory bridge, "I wish I had always known
you as I know you now. My confidence in
human nature would have suffered less.
"'Tis woman's part to .increase that confi-
dence, by showing that hnman nature is n or-
thy of trust and belief."
" If I had always known you as well as
this," he began. "If Ilhad-read you better-"
iHe ceased.
What, then ?" she asked, in a whisper,
trembling violently. "Would you have left
us in the hour of need? Would you have re-
maned, out of friendship for me .
"Yes, I would," lie answered. Ile felt a
strange dizziness, and had to gather all his
strength to retain his self-possession. A few
moments passed in silence, when the horses,
with a sudden affection for the stable, gave a
jump, and dashed over the Priory bridge.
They rode through the woods.
" Why, the others have been out of sight a
long while," said Miss Jessie, anxiously.
" Yes, too long," he said, quite as anxiously;
and added, in a tone she could not or would
not understand, "Josephie will be worried.'
" Walter always plays me stch tricks," she
exclaimed, with a feehimg akin to alarm, and
giving her horse the lash..f           d
When they rode up to the house, they found

150


GOING AND -SON.

that the three gentlemen, who, instigated by
Walter, had spurred on, were, indeed, in the
parlor, having sent their horses to the stable
some time before. -Walter cane out to meet
them. Montant called out for him to help his
sister from her horse, saying that he could not
hold his own nag and attend her also. He for-
got that the groom was in waiting.
They stepped into the hall. Without turn-
ing to the right or left, Jessie ran up-stairs.
Later she sent an apology that a headache
would not permit her to descend.
As Montant entered, he saw Josephine. As
he approached, he noticed that she was pale,
and trembling, and now, in the glaring light,
she could see his flushed face and unsteady,
feverish eye. She watched him in spell-bound
misery for a moment, and then, rising with an
effort, greeted him as usual, though not quite
so enthusiastically. She did not say a word
about his late return and in whose company ;
and he, grateful for her forbearance, devoted
himself to her all the evening, and they tried
to be once more the lovers of old I
CHAPTER V.
SIMONETTA'S INHERITANCE.
"Nature her custom holds.
Let shame say what it will."
HAMLET.
THE flimsy ornaments adorning the ceiling
of the Italian dance-hall do not bear a death-
lier yellow hue, than the face of the countess,
as she lies on a faded lounge where they have
carried her, in a sudden attack of illness. Iher
wicked heart is fighting its last struggle, her
wrinkled, sallow face, shows the contortions
which forebode the end.
In one convulsive hand, she holds the man-
uscript of the "Maniac's Story;" in the other,
she clutches the newspaper report of the
"Horrible tragedy in a New-England mad-
house," where the end of her lover, Judge
Bates, is recorded with all the sensational ex-
travagance of a reporter, and yet only a faith-
ful record of the terrible event.
She was comparing the two. and laughing at
the analogy. It had been her last laugh, for,
in the very midst of the exultation which fill-
ed her Satanic soul, the avenging angel had
sent a thunderbolt and felled her to the earth.
The dancing-girls etand around. They are
not attired in their glittering, evening costumes,
for the sun has not set, and the afternoon
bangs dull and leaden over the scene, showing,
in its blank light, the creatures of sin and the
abode of vice in all their repulsiveness, in their
natural decay. The wantorn faces have lost
their leer; appalled and frightened, they stand,
about their dying mistress; not a tear softens
their hollow eyes, only fear-terror, and the
knowledge that they, also, must come to this.
And, besides these women, other persons are
in the room and surround the countess. They
are police officers-they have come to close up
*  the den. They have come, to find that, in an-

other hour, it will be closed without their aid;
for, as soon as the countess has breathed her
last foul breath unto the world, her companions
and followers will scatter to the winds. Poor
winds     -
But, there is one face in the crowd which
tells a different story. By the side of the rag.
ged couch. a woman kneels, weeping. The offs.
cers ask her how it is, that she seems to be-
wail the loss of one so depraved, and what their
relationship has been.
"She has been kind to me !" answers Si.
monetta Marini, and truly, in this place and
associations, there is enough relationship ex.
pressed in those words. Yes, the withered hag
had been kind to her, and now her glazing eye
rests with fond sorrow upon the still attractive
face of the girl. Here is the "tender spot " of
which the countess told Martin Bates. A nd if a
prayer can rise in that heart, it is in thanking
God, whose awful presence is before her now, for
the mercy of bringing to her death-bed the'one
creature upon whom had centered all that was
left in her of love and tenderness.
The countess, speechless and almost paralyz.
ed. made a desperate effort for some purpose
which seemed to veigh heavily in her fast-de-
parting soul. With great difficulty she made
Simonetta understand, and the girl opened the
dying woman's dress, and procured two doc-
ments, sealed, and addressed to "Simonetta
Marini," which the hag had secreted near her
bosom. This accomplished, the countess, with
a gasp and a grimace, gave up the ghost.
The police officers surrounded the corpse,
while the dancing-girls stole a last ind awe-
stricken view of their late mistress.  Only
Simonetta bewailed the hag's death, and her
hand closed the stiffening eyelids. Then the girl
realized with a pang and a shudder, that she
was lonely arid deserted in such a crowd as
this, and she tried to make her way to the door.
Hlalf-bewildered and truly aiTeeted, she seemed
scarcely conscious of her movements, when a
friendly hand touched her shoulder. She looked
up, and saw Martin Bates. The old man's face
almost expressed the resignation, of despair,
but a pitying, friendly light shone in his eye as
he said, simply, "Come with mer!"
She hesitated a moment, and then followed
him, willingly. They reached the street, and
forced their way through the multitude of
queer people fast assembling to gaze upon the
remains of the countess-the news -having
spread ii an instant over the Fourth Ward.
Martin (walking hurriedly). "Let is get to
some quiet place as soon as possible ; I have
much to say to you."
The girl. "It seems wonderful to me that
you should seek me out, after what has hap-
pened between us."
Martin. "All is forgotten,-all forgiven.
I am now alone in the world, alone with the
burden of my memory, which is haunted by
hi ous shapes of sin and misery and horror.'
Simonetta (bitterly). " And you have come
ack to me because no one else would keep,
you company I"
Martin. " Not so. I have come to you be-
cause you are the one living being that is not

associated with my shame and crimes, the one
being whom I can look in the eyes and say,
honestly: ' Old Martin Bates has been a
friend and a comforter to you."'
Simonetta. " It is true. No one can deny it;
and as I also am without a kindly being to
help me, except yourself, I will once more con-
fide in you, and consult you about what is to
become of me."
They reached a place where abrupt stairs
led down from the street, into one of those
dens known as " music halls," and by mutual
consent they descended.  The rooms were
nearly deserted at this hour, and they easily
found a corner where they could converse
without fear of eavesdropping.
" Let us examine these papers which the
countess gave me before her 'soul fled to the
clouds," said the girl, producing one envelope,
upon which was marked, " Simonetta's inheri-
tance, number 1," and a second bearing the
title, "Simonetta's inheritance, number 2."
Martin (having opened the first, greedily).
" This is her last will. She leaves all to you,
her house, her money in bank, her bonds,
stocks, and all other property. I knew she
must have. saved something, but I did not
think it would be as much. Simonetta, you
are almost rich."
The girl (disdainfully). " Open the second
envelope."
Martin. " Here is a letter addressed to An-
tonio Stilletto, and you are directed to read it
before delivering it. Listen: 'Son and villain, if
ever you dare to touch a hair of Simonetta's, after
I am dead, my ghost will haunt the life out of
your black heart. Mark this: a curse be upon
all you undertake, withered and blighted wil
be all your future life, and eternal damnation
shall receive you, unless you leave her un
niolested, unscathed by your foul revenge o
pestilent approaches of any sort. But before
you die, you'll stiffer tenfold the tortures of
hell, for my spirit will be like the furies of old
and you'll not have an hour's rest unless you
obey my last command. You knew me in life
You know that I was not to be turned from
any purpose. Know, then, that after death]
xwill keep my resolves with tenfold vigor, si
heed what I say, because dead or alive, I an
determined to save that girl from you. Fea
me, obey mae, or go hang-'"
Martin ceased.
Simonetta (after a pause). "The second in
heritance is more a kindness to me than th
first !"
Martin. " Oh, no I Nothing like money I no
thing like money !"
Simnonetta. "What is the blessing of mono
to me if he kills me."
Martin. " Do you fear that ?"
Simonetta. " I did fear it until I read thi
admonishing message."
Martin. - "So you think that he will b
frightened."._
Simonetta. "Most miserably frightened. Thi
countess knew him, knew   the weakness o
his superstition, and she has drawn a circle o

witchcraft around me which will protect me.
May the Virgin reward her for it."
Martin. " Still I would not suppose that one
so hardened in sin should be so much the
slave of the most miserable of human weak-
nesses."
Simonetta. " What bad man is not?"
Martin (with a sigh). "I am bad enough,
but-"
"You are not bad," cried the girl, suddenly,
and stretching both her hands out toward
him. "Let the world and the law say what
they will, I say you are a good, kind, generous
man. Take this money. You are poor and
old. I do not want it as much as you."
le looked at her intently for a moment.
His hard, square, cadaverous face softened
with emotion, and a ray of hope. With tears
streaming faster and faster down his bony
cheeks, he said,-
" Simonetta, I found you a poor organ-grinder
girl. I attempted to draw you away from the
brink of the abyss whose hungry jaws were
ravenous for another victim. You despised,
betrayed me."
"But I was not ungratefulI" cried the
girl.
"Betrayed me," repeated Martin, "but you
can make it all up if you will go with me,
away from this land of iniquity, away to the
far hills of Scotland-"
"As your wife?" asked the girl, bewildered.
"As my wife, until a few short years shall
free you."
" And do you know   what I am ?" cried
Simonetta.  Do you forget that Stilletto-"
" I forget every thing-I forgive every thing.
l You have sinned-so have I. Neither can take
the responsibility of forming any ties with
pure and blameless people, without heaping
r another and far greater sin upon our heads.
e But let me tell you, Simonetta, that since we
f both know every crime which rests upon our
, consciences, we can best regain peace by unit-
u ing in the task of repentance and reform.
Then do not hesitate. Let people talk as they
n will, let them sneer in derision, let the world
I continue to snarl at us like the wild beast-
o we will go among new people, seek a new
n world."
r    "When shall we go ?" cried Simonetta,
jumping to her feet.
"1At once, at once 1 Oh, that old Martin
- should be happy once more."
e    "As soon as we can turn into hard money
the inheritance of my benefactress ?"
"Yes, yes.  I also have realized a little
fortune out of poor Eben's estate, so we are
y  comfortable, all comfortable, my dear girl. I
feel that my crimes,committed from brotherly
love, which had grown-into the infatuation of
s a madman, are all forgiven, and you also will
leave behind you the dirt and dishonor which
e this vile town and that murderous Stilletto have
cast upon you. Will you not, carissima?"
e    " If the Virgin lends a gracious ear to my
f prayers, she can cleanse the worst of us,"
f replied Simonetta, devoutly.

152

FATE.

153


154                   GOING AND SON.

CHAPTER VI.
A VOICE FROM HEINE.
"Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?"
ROMEO AND JULIET.
Fon several days Jessie kept her room, de-
scending only for a short time in the middle of
the day; though remaining longer when her
father's business permitted him to spend the
day with her. She was invisible when the
gentlemen left the house in the morning, and
when they returned from the city, she had
already retired, pleading a continuation of
headaches.
Montant was very busy for the week follow-
ing the holiday described in a previous chapter,
and his relations with Josephime remained the
same as on that evening. They conversed con-
stantly, but he was so much engrossed by busi-
ness that he was more desirous cf rest and en-
tertainment than of the passionate love pre-
viously characterizing their private moments.
Josephine was kinder and more studiously
affectionate than ever, but through it all there
appeared a languishing weariness in her look
and manner. It was an important week for
Going, Montant &amp; Co., and at its close they
repaid to the estate of John Van Strom, or
rather to Josephine, the two-hundred thousand
dollars Montant had borrowed.   He seemed
relieved of a burden after the transaction had
been completed, and Josephine was delighted
with his animated spirits. For the first time
since a cloud overshadowed the serenity of
their affection, the subject of their marriage I
was discussed.
"No more postponement of that day," said
Montant, more firmly thanenthusiastically. "In
ten days all will be fixed."
"Shall we stay here till then ?" she asked,
somewhat startled by his tone.
"As you desire, my darling I" he cried, more
heartily than before. ' I am yours already,
and will follow your wishes in all such trivial
matters."
"Well, then, let us have the wedding here, ac-
cording to Mr. Going's pressing invitation. It
will be a very quiet one. No show, or white
dresses for met"
Montant's face fell, but she failed to notice it,
and they agreed that the wedding should be in
ten days, at the Priory, and only a few of their
most intimate friends were to be invited.
"Will Bella come ?" asked Moutant.
"I think so."
ttIt does not seem likely, from the tone of her
letters."
"That tone will change when she sees -"
"What?"
That we are really to be married, dear."
Sunday came, and Mr. Paradise, who had
promised and postponed his visit, finally arrived.
He brought Mr. Goimig a letter from a gentle-
man in New York, which he read carefully and
xvith a thoughtful brow.  The subject treated
in the letter seemed very important and worthy
of deep consideration, for his looks rested pen-
+     sivehy upon his daughter, whose improved
health permitted her to join the family again,

and then wandered with the same thoughtful.
ness to Montant and Josephine. Something
occupied his mind which probably caused him
many a doubt and struggle, and he was absent-
minded even during dinner, the time of all
others when he was wont to be scrupulously
attentive in his manners.
It was a Sunday dinner, so like the olden
times, with the sunbeams dancing on the richly-
papered walls, and the old air of refinement,
elegance, and stateliness marking all that was
done or spoken, always excepting Mr. Para-
dise, who sneered as usual at every one. though
in truth his sarcasm was not so biting por his
sar donic taunts so bitter as of old.
" Walter seems to enjoy this new state of
affairs," he said.
" Yes," replied that gentleman. "Fatman
has now left us; but the port wine crust re-
mains on the doors and the honeysuckle is on
the walls. I will live and die in this place."
" A palatial residence, Mr. Going," said the
hunchback, imitating Fatmar. "But, speaking
seriously, I would as soon have expected to
see the dog kiss the cat, or a Prussian embrace
a Frenchman, as to find you two reconciled. I
thought the feud between you and my fat
friend was too deep to be easily bridged over."
" When kind fortune smiles on a man al-
ready prepared for an old age embittered by
poverty, perhaps disgrace, lie is readily dispos-
ed to forgiveness," replied the old gentleman.
"Although friends spring up to greet the for-
tunate as quickly as they forsake the unlucky,
yet they are always welcome. To-day I feel as
if I never had cause to complain."
Paradise was silent. When het father had
concluded, Jessie raised her eyes to Montant.
to send him a look of gratitude; but finding
his gaze riveted upon her face with an ex-
pression of which perhaps he himself was not
conscious, her eyes were hastily cast down and
she colored crimson. Josephine noticed and
read him; but she concealed her impressions
under the guise of unusual good humor, and
became quite hilarious.
Neither the shadow of pecuniary cares, nor
the business anxiety which had dampened
many a family party-in the old house, nosy
rested upon them, but a more threatening bur-
den was on their hearts, though they attempted
to laugh it off succeeding-remarkably well, if
the general merriment could be considered a
criterion.
" By Jove, she is a lovely--a superb woman,"
said Walter to himself, referring to his fair
neighbor, Josephine Van Strom, who showed
to advantage in her ripe, glowing beauty, when
intentionally sprightly, entertaining, and fas-
cinating.
When the ladies retired, it happened that
Mr. Going was talking to Montant, and both re-
moved themselves and their cigars to the bow-
window, leaving Walter and tne hunchback
alone at the table.
Walter!"
" Well, your honor?"
"Why the devil don't you marry that
widowv ?"
Walter starell-
"That's pretty good," he cried.

' Have you never thought of it ?"
It was impossible to say whether he had or a
not, since lie did not answer the question.  V
She has a million of dollars. She is young. V
She is iiot only passionate, but as true a woman
,s ever lived; to which I can testify. She is
as handsome as I am homely (which is saying  c
a good deal); you are young-"
" But what are you talking about ?" said
Walter, lowering his voice that the others s
nmiglht not hear. " You know she is engaged
to Montant. What would he do ?"            r
" iniuph I" growled the hunchback, andf
quickly changed the subject,               i
They soon rejoined the ladies, and a walk k
was proposed.
"I do not feel well, Ernest," said Josephine.c
"I ani afraid I left my room too soon after my -i
sickness. I feel oppressed, as if another illness
were in store for me, so I think I will remain
at home. Will you keep me company ?"
" Of course."
" Montant I" called Mr. Paradise.
WellI"
" Walk with me, I have something to tell
you."
" I am going to remain at the house with
Mrs. Van Strom."
" Can't let you off. I am compelled to ask
you to hreak the Sabbath with me and talk
business, offending this glorious sunny after-
noon by speaking of dusty agreements, moldy
records, and other nasty law documents. As1
it is all for the benefit of our fair client there,
I call upon you, by your duty as trustee, to
obey, for I will not soon have another oppor.
tunity."    '
" What a burden too much wealth is,"
sighed Josephine. "But go, Ernest, since Mr.
Paradise will have it so."
Why was it that the business talk did not
last long-how  came it that Montant and
Jessie walked together along the little beach,
while Mr. Going, Walter, kind the .lawyer
strayed far behind?
In the course f tihe conversation-that free
causerie characterizing the idle moments of old
friends-they spoke of German philosophy.
"I believe it is all nonsense-that is-I
think there is some sense at the bottom of it ;
but carried to a point above the sphere of
ordinary life where alone it can be made
useful," said Miss Jessie, wisely.
"You commenced a very intelligent speech
by a 'very hasty sentence," he replied, smiling.
"Nonsense it certainly is not, and though you
are correct in praising the philosophy of life,
the most abstract teachings of the German
school (not so the French) can be applied to
the most obscure lesson of life, because logic is
the life of German intelligence, and logic
can not lose itself in vague speculation."
" Why do they indulge in-all those dreadful
half Latin appellatives, though, making their
books horribly unintelligible, to mme at least ?"
"It is a fact," he answered, "that when-
Emanuel Kant speaks of his Kategorische
Iauperat vus he might possibly have couched
the same idea in terms comprehensible to all!"
" lie was a great man, I uindemrstand."
"-Yes,'nd do you know why ?"

No. If you want to tell me, let's rest
while. Here is a seat between two trees,
where we can see the Sound as well as by
fading in the sand."
" I will tell you in a very few words."
" That's right. Philoso iy should be la-
onic," said the young lady, decidedly.
" He was great," lie continued, when they
were comfortably seated, with only a small
pace of the rustic bench separating them.
"He was great because he established a
eason for votue. IIe selected human conscience
for his subject, and made of that mysterious
intuitive monitor a definite, tangible principle,
based on irresistible logic, proving its cause
and strengthening its existence by the pillars
of reason, absolute argument, and clearly de-
fined and logically derived truths."
"But does not religion serve the same pur-
pose ?" she asked.
" Reason and religion serve in reality one
and the same purpose. They both come from
God, and to-day Emanuel Kant stands as the
savior of many who are convinced by reason;
but would not be converted by religion,
Happy are those who can combine the two I"
" Can you?"
Ile looked into her eyes, which spoke more
than interest,-nmore than attention to what lie
had just said, or what his answer might be.
Even her beauty, calculated to thrill the breast-
of any man, was not so fascinating as the
bright intelligence and depth of mind that
shone in her when the mood permitted, and he
was delighted above measure.
" I can try," lie said, with a smile.
"You laugh at my earnestness I" she cried,
disappointed. "'Talk to me more about your
German philosophy."
"I must nake it short, then," lie answered,
for there is no telling how long you will be
pleased with the subject. In a minute you
will be wanting to see which of us can thiow
a white pebble to the greater distance over the
water."
'low does Kant establish the logic of our
conscience ?" she asked, persistently .
" I aii not sufficiently learned in his doctrines
to answer that question satisfactorily, but I
know that lie entirely separates the inner man
from the outer world. All objects he treats as
impressions only, and even demonstrates our
inability to prove their existence. We think
that is the Sound before us, but we can not
prove that it is. This is one of his f midaiental
theories which aids himi in showing us our
individual self in contrast to all the rest of
creation."
"Or what we consider creation."
"Thank you," lie replied, with a quiet smile.
"From this isolation of Self, lie shows the
grandeur, the majesty of the self-sufficient
soul, and consequently the dependent anid i-
fei-ior importance of the outer world.  Ile
teaches us to judge the objects around us, not
by their own, but by cur own light, and, ma be-
littling their importance, elevates our.individ-
ual soul to the place where it belongs."
"'hen, in subjecting the otiter world to the
individual aiid self-existent sul. lie must also
think less of the mind, which judges from

FATE.                       100


156                  GOING AND SON..

outside objects entirely, than of the heart
whose mysterious intuition is the life of th
soul. It is a doctrine which centers upon th(
heart, Mr. Montant I" she cried, with enthu
siasm.
"But the mind brings the heart (as you cal
his JIrnpes-elivus) to a disciplined knowledge of
its true worth"
"Does not this theory affect the abstract
outer world as well as the material? Can we
prove that a recognized law, a signed pledge, a
given vow, is our duty any more than that a
horse is absolutely, and beyond doubt, a horse
Does he not subject the tangible duties of life
to his Imperativus as well? lie must l"
"tYes," answered Montant, if you put it in
that light, I can not but admit that if I under-
stand him correctly, a law, a pledge, or a vow,
should be sanctioned by the Kategornsche Im-
perativus, else it is not right to keep it-for the
hrperwtivua is the highest, holiest judge I"
"The heart, you mean," she said, slowly, as
if to take im the whole meaning of the sen-
tence as she amended it. "The heart must
approve, or the law, the pledge, the vow, is
unholy!1"
He looked at her as though he had received
a shock! Did she think,-could she know
what she was saying? Did she purposely
throw the firebrand into his inflammable soul,
to kindle there an unquenchable flame ?
She saw his agitation, which was indeed in-
capable of control or suppression, and suddenly
burst upon her the meaning which might be
put upon her words. Coloring deeply with
confusion and alarm, she abruptly rose, and it
was some moments before she could call a
woman's weapon to her aid. Changing her
manner, she cried, coquettishly,-
"I am tired of philosophy. Let me fulfill
your prophecy. I dare you to throw white
pebbles into the dear blue water against me."
When the rest of the party joined them in
that innocent amusement, Montant stepped
aside and watched her, Iiseinated more than
ever, as he saw her laughing and dancing
around with all the gayety of a perfect child.
11er hair had escaped from its confinement,
and the merry wind played in the waving
tresses-a fresh bloom was on her face, and
the sprightliness of youth sparkled in her
bright eyes.
Who would think that this girl could talk
as she has just talked to me ?" he said to him-
self, and a rebellious evil voice in his heart
whispered, "Josephine, with all her charms,
can neither talk philosophy nor run along the
beach like this girl ;" but he silenced the
voice, and, with a conscience that would not
be silenced, walked to the house to hear,.with
a sharp pang of distress and self-denunciation,
that Josephine was quite ill again with a re-'
lapse of fever.
After whispering a few loyal and loving
words through the half-opened door, he van-
dered around the house, lonely and disconso-
late, until tea was served, upon the return of
the strollers. The rays of the sinking sun
gilded the dining-room and shed a beauteous
light ever that fhee, from which he could not
always avert his looks. Miss Jessie had en-

tirely recovered her self-possession, and the
e delicate tint upon her cheeks was the hue of
e health only. After tea, as they were sitting
- a quiet family party in the drawing-room,...
"I do not think it would disturb Mrs. Van
I Strom if you were to sing, Jessie," said her
f father.
" I have studied those songs you brought
t me, Mr. Montant," said the young lady.
I am glad of it. In my humble opinion,
t they were composed by the' greatest master
that ever wrote a note."
" Schuman ?" she said, reading the name on
the title-page.
"Yes."
"I wish Germans would adopt musical
narnes, also," said Miss Jessie.
She arranged the notes before her by his
assistance, and, while she was singing, he re-
mained in such a position as to cormuand a
partial view of her face.
Indeed, she had studied the songs! Al-
though her voice was not remarkably power-
ful, it was very sympathetic, and as she sang
the magnificent melodies correctly, the feeling
with which she was inspired was sufficient to
interpret correctly the great composer's ih-
mortal thoughts.
Ile had selected the celebrated series of
Schuman's songs, with words by Heine. They
are short, but precious bijoux, and as she sang
one after the other, she entered more and more
into the spirit of love, longing, and complaint,
her eyes grew moist and were cast down when
he stepped up to lay another of the songs be-
fore her. Unfortunately, she was obliged to
sing the Eiglisli translation, but borne up by
the sublime strain of the melody, the plaintive,
passionate words spoke to every heart among
her few listeners.
"What is.this ?" she asked Montant, irn an
uncertain voice, as lie laid the last of the songs
before her. Ile read the first line:-
" Warur sind den die rosen so blass."
She began the song. As the music and
words wailed forth the lament of a blighted
love, her emotion became more and more ap-
parent. The last words:-
"Why am I sick and sad at heart,
Oh, darling, answer me I
Oh. tell mne, ay sweet love, wherefore
//eat thou forsuken te I"
fell from her lips in trembling, thrilling accents.
She ceased. Not a sound broke the silence,
She lifted her brimming eyes and met the gaze
of' Montant bent upon her with the full agony
of love that knew no more reason or control.
For a moment she returned the gaze, though
it burned her eyes like fire; for a moment she
trembled like a leaf, and her bosom heaved con-
vulsively, then she arose and glided hastily
from the room.
What she said to herself and to her God, as
she stood on the dark piazza, leaning her
aching head against a massive pillar-what
her thoughts were and what a struggle she
had to undergo, none knew, and no one offered
to intrude upon her moment of weakness.
After a few minutes, during which those
that remained in the drawing-rooma kept an

awkward silence (even Paradise was speech-
less), she returned, calm and collected, and
said, in a firm, clear voice:-
i Papa, I want to speak to you in the li-
brary."
Moantant had left the room, unwilling and
unable to encounter the wondering glances of
the others, and paced the hall like one steeling
his iron will in the white heat of the furnace
of tribulation. Jessie entered the drawing-
room by a door which opened directly upon the
piazza, so he had not seen her re-enter. But
lie was very much astonished to see Josephine
descend the stairs soon after the music had
ceased, and approached her to expostulate.
She looked flushed with fever, and excused
herself in advance.
"1 could not bear that dreary room any
longer, and I have been separated from you so
long already, dear, so I made an effort, wrap-
ped myself up well, and came to look for
you.,,
Although he was not satisfied that it was
not imprudence, he was glad to have her near
him, and he consented that she should stay
long enough for a good walk in the hall.
"I want a glass of water," said Josephine,
finally, so they stepped into the dining-room
and procured the refreshment. The sound of
voices from the library reached them through
the door which separated the two rooms, and
as lie had not heard Miss Jessie asking for a
private interview with her father, it did not
suggest itself to him that they might be in-
voluitary eavesdroppers.
"Then I will answer Mr. Van IHagen's letter
to-morrow," said the voice of old Mr. Going.
" Although his age is an objection, his high
respectability, his excellent name and family,
together with all that accomplishments, edu-
cation, and wealth can do to make a gentleman
a desirable connection, prevent me from gain-
saying your decision."
"It is not a decision yet," answered Jessie,
in a distinct, composed voice, " but you may
tell him, that, in your opinion, I will accept
him."'
Iontant staggered to the wall. A suffocat-
ing pain almost mastered his senses, and fal-
tering the broken words, "0, ay God!" he
pressed his hands to his temples, trying in
vain to recover himself,~ When he succeccdted
(in a moment, which seemed to him ages), Jo-
sephine stood before him without a sign of
the feverish flush upon her face. 11er eyes
met his, and he saw her anguish, her deathly
suffering. With her hands clasped against her
heart, she stood motionless, petrified, and her
face, from which no suffering could banish the
Madonna expression, resembled that of the
Virgin when she looked upon the Cross where
all her hopes were crucified.
"Josephine," he said, huskily, in his agony
and sinking upon his knees, a thoroughly
wretched man, "Josephine, can you forgiv
me?"
"Forgive you," she muttered, and it seeme
to him that he heard a stranger's voice. "For
give you? Yes, yes, all is forgiven." An
now the fever sent the blood boiling to he
temples, and with a low moan, she sank to th

flop r. She was carried up-stairs to her room,
and laid upon her bed, from which she did not
rise for weeks.
CHAPTER VII.
THE BALL.
" Was't you that did so oft contrive to kill him?"
As You LKE IT.
DREARY days passed at the Priory while Jo-
sephine was ill--too ill to be visible to any
one but those two grim guardians of the sick,
the doctor and the nurse.
The scene at the library door so vitally af-
fected Josephine, as to cause a relapse of brain-
fever. Montant refused to explain, and an-
swered all queries of " How did it happen?" by
a shrug of the shoulder and a frown, which
ill became his open and habitually serene
countenance.
From that hour he avoided Jessie, who re-
turned the compliment with a frigidity her
experience in society had taught her to sus-
tain to perfection. Thus separated from Jo-
sephine, and further than ever removed from
Jessie, Montant began to find his stay at the'
Priory intolerable; so he concluded to remam
in town, devoting himself exclusively to busi-
ness, until Josephine should be sufficiently re-
covered to receive him. Miss Jessie seemed
to suspect that both her father and brother
believed her to be very unhappy, and to evade
their sympathy, she intrenched herself behind
a wall of imperturbable indifference, or a cold
serenity that must have appeared strange in
one so young ; but the gentlemen recognized
her quiet determination~ to settle matters by
herself alone, and left her undisturbed. Under
these circumstances, neither Walter nor his
father enjoyed the best of spirits, and when at
home, escheved conversation and society.
" I have not yet written to Mr. Van Iaigen,"
said her father, one morning, as he was break-
fasting with his daughter alotne.
Why not?   I thought that point was set-
tied," replied the young lady, carelessly.
" Well, but we were interrupted that eve-
ning, you know!1" said he, looking out of the
window, and feeling  uncomfortably embar-
rassed.
Miss Jessie shrugged her shoulders, and re-
plied: "Do as you wish, papa. I have told
you that I am willing to encourage him, so the
r matter rests entirely in your hands."
"I think that since we owe so much to Mrs.
Van Strom, and considering that she is to be
connected with us by every tie except blood-
relation, we owe it to ordinary delicacy to
postpone a step like this until she is well,
or at least out of danger."
y  " I am satisfied. if you are," said Miss Jessie,
e and the subject was dismissed.
Not many days after Josephine had been
d rudely hurled back into the horrors of a sick-
ness from whose perils she had just emerged,
I a carriage drove imp to the house from the
r railroad-station, containing a lady in deep
o mourning, who alighted, and was greeted with

FATE.                       157


GOING AND SON.

some surprise on the part of Mr. Going and
his daughter. When she threw back her
veil, her :ace, pale and stoical, with her mono-
tonous tone and impassive manners, were
those of a person having lost all interest in
life. It was Bella Van Strom, whom Mr.
Going had informed of Josephine's illness, and
who had come to nurse her. After several
days of calm consideration, Bella had deliber-
ately arrived at her conclusion, but when she
entered the sick-room of the fair patient whose
beauty no fever could distort, her heart melt-
ed, and she was happier than before.
During the whole of that anxious time
which preceded her convalescence. Montant
remained away, and Bella stayed with her
charge day and night, her only relaxation
being an occasional walk when she visited her
parents. Smith, the tailor, was still residing
with his worthy spouse, in the same house
whore the mare had paused to meditate,
though he had abandoned his trade. living in
the ease and comfort provided by Bella.
Josephine's convalescence, depending fully
as much upon regaining her peace of mind as
upon her physical recuperative powers, was.
perhaps, due in the greatest measure to Bella.
We will not inquire by what means or by
what arguments the tailor's daughter succeed-
ed in bringing peace to that storum-tossed soul;
but with the regained bloom of health, serene
tranquillity begau to subdue the strife which
had heightened the ravages of the fever, and
toward the end of May, she was in full pos'es-
sion of health and beauty, her figure a little
less luxurious, her face a shade paler than of
old, but altogether--charming. Thus Moutant
found her when lie returned from the city,
with stronger resolutions than ever, aiid coui-
sequently far happier than while his doubts
and struggles threatened to master him.
His tirst conversation with Josephine took
place in Bella's presence, and she noticed that
they talked more like friends than lovers.
Montant offered to kiss her-she refused, haltf
laugljing, half seriously.
" Not before a certain day !" she cried.
"Then let us fix the day for good this time,"
he said, with slight impatience.
So they fixed the day which they had so
often appointed before. Was this arrange-
ment to fare better than the last?
It soon became known to the small company
that Jessie desired to give a ball, and although
Bella's presence, and recent widowhood, made
the originators of the idea hesitate about car-
rying it out, Bella spoke to Jessie as soon as
she heard of it.
" Nothing would trouble me more than to
have you postpone your party on my account.
If I thought I could not prevail on you to ig-
nore me, I would at once take my leave. I
would much prefer to remain a few (lays
longer, and if you desire my acceptance of
your hospitality, give your party by all means.
I will simply remain up-stairs for that eve-
ning. And so the f/te was decided upon.
What a difference there was between the
Priory of to-day and when old John Jacob Van
Strom gave his masquerade ball. where carica-
ture seemed the order of the day, or rather, of

the night, and the house haunted by a ghost.
The dismal lamp which then scarce disturbed
the darkness around the gallery of Van
Strom portraits was replaced by a gas chan.
delier (for the gas-mains had reached even the
Priory), and the walls-once so. dark--were
frescoed in the day when Fatman was lord of
the manor, so that now it resembled a grand
salon more than a tomb-like vault.
And the company attending Miss Going's
ball were very unlike the fantastic mixture of
unadorned old-fogyism, and grotesque fancy,
that then thronged the hall. A good band
played for the dance, instead of the four negro
fiddlers who then   stamped the floor, and
shrieked out the figures of the quadrille, and
tortured their poor fiddles until they squeaked
like so many demons, regardless of the dread-
ful scene of lunacy and death there enacted
before them.
The company now present was elegant, and
the arrangements for the ball corresponded.
True, those tasty ball costumes, those excru-
ciating toilets, those ladies and gentlemen, at-
tired in their best, moving among their friends,
and conversing  so delightfully, were only
component parts of Vanity Fair; but many a
real intellect was there, and many a stout heart
beat within a lace-covered bosoii. Not all
vanity in Vanity Fair.
" What a delightful house for a ball!1" Such
was the universal verdict, as the spacious
apartments received the brilliant concourse of
guests; and few of those who had come from
the city on purpose to attend, regretted the
exertion.
Soon the ball opened, and the dancers began
to flit through the hall, and around the parlors,
while the graver portion of the company-the
solid men and heavy fathers-congregated in
the library and dining-room, where supper was
to ho laid later in the evening.
Mr. Paradise was there, of course. Strange
as it may seem, Mr. Going liked the hunch-
back beyond merely paying the ordinary tribute
to his talents and powerful intellect. But
to-night the lawyer seemed to have something
to do, besides conversing with his host and
the elderly gentlemen who crowded around
him,-gentlenien of wealth and influence, and
among them Mr. Chip, who looked quite re-
fined, in his dress suit; but his white cravat
was too tight, giving him a flushed face, that
reminded one of the symptoms that accompany
human choking.
Mr. Paradise was preoccupied. The reader
must have noticed, in the course of his expe-
rience, that during a ball at a country house,
there is always a multitude, composed of' the
servants and their friends, who throng the
piazzas, and peep in at every window, to catch
a glimpse of the gay world within. Now, Mr.
Paradise thought it fit to mingle with these
outsiders, and, in fact, appeared to pay more
attention to them, or rather to one person
among them, than to the brilliant company
who were dancing and laughing, unconscious,
of the person who had captivated the great
lawyer. This one person amused himself by
sneaking around the house, and tixing a pair
of lynix-eyes upon every individual within and

without the illumined mansion. le was a
little man, with a conspicuous black beard,
having the air and dress of a foreigner.
Finally, Mr. Paradise requested the foreign-
looking gentleman to step into the drawing-
room, and there introduced him as,-
" My friend. Baron de Stombe. Mr. Going.
I have taken the liberty of bringing the baron
along with me, because I wanted him to see
something of American society."
Mr. Going, considerably astonished at this
late introduction (for the lawyer had not men-
tionied his friend before), made a bow, without
exactly knowing what to say.
" Your most obedient, sir," said the baron,
displaying more vulgarity than foreign accent,
and making an awkward, low bow.
" Have you arrived in this country lately,
sir?" said Mr. Going; and arming himself with
studious politeness, ie added, "I am most
happy to receive you, or any other friends of
Mr. Paradise, at my house."
"Sir," answered the baron, with another
bow, " my cratitude is only excelled by my-"
"Beauty," suggested Mr. Paradise, who
stood neat him, biting his lips.
Whereupon the foreigner grew very red, and
Mr. (oing, quite perplexed; but the lawyer'
came to the rescue, and took his friend away.
-  Well, Stump," he asked, laughing, "how
do you like fashionable society ?"
"It is beautiful," replied the detective,
whom it was next to impossible to recognize,
so carefully had he disguised himself. " Beauti-
fuil," he repeated, looking around him. "Sich
lovely gals, and sich music. It's bully, sir I"
" Do you see the mlan you want ?"
"No, sir; but I think I will 'fore mornin'."
 You are sure lie's here?"
"Miller swears that our mutual friend, Sta-
letoe, has confided in him in privit. He has
got Mrs. Fatman and lots o' chink, all stowed
away safe in Canady, waitin' for him to go to
Europe, but lie wants to be r'venged on Moun-
taii 'fore lie goes to rest in the buzzumn of
Venus, and. take the donations of Mercoory.
R'venge is strong, Mr. Paradise, and when
Miller told him of this 'ore party here to-night,
Staletoe straightways axed him sichi questions,
and in sich a way, that I'm sure lie's here, or
means to be."
"No letting him off this time!" said Mr.
Paradise, in a threatening tone.
Oh, no I no, no I".
"I am certain that it was you who got him
out of that court-room before the judge had
time to issue a bench-warrant for his arrestI"
Oh, tno! no, no !"
" But mind you, if you don't arrest him to-
night, and that before he does any mischief,
dye hear?   If you don't, you'll have a fight
with me, and you know I don't joke when I
say fight!"
" Rely on me, guv'ner."
"Can't you .imagine in what disguise lie
means to appear?"
"No. You see, all I know is what I've told
yer. Miller was scared out of his wits, and
the strangest thing is that I found it out at all.
The .way of it was this yer: I had to see Mil-
Ier on a matter of business, which was IHob-

goblin. I wanted to see if my shares was any
good, so up I goes to Miller, and on my way,
thinks I, there is a reward of ten thousand
set on John Van Strom's murderer. Now,
what a nice thing that'ere ten thousand 'ud be
for my family in my old age. I have three,
and the old woman, Mr. Paradise. So knowing'
Miller was more like to be awears of Staletoe
nor any one else, I eross-questions him a bit,
and got out of him what I told yer. lIe said,
too, that since Mr. Mountain had been very
kind to him, he'd like to keep danger away
from that gentleman's head ; so he told ue all
that Staletoe had told him, which I have told
you, and I made up my mind that our Eyetalian
friend will be here to-night."
"No letting off, nowI"
"Rely on me," said Mr. Stump, honestly.
" Tie was an old friend of mine, but now
there's an end to all that. Ten thousand in
money and a bully newspaper notice is worth
more than friendship with a mankiller."
In the ball-room; Miss Jessie queened it
without a rival. Never was her beauty more
radiant, never did her spirits flow merrier,
never had she been so sprightly, lovely. fas-
cinating. Mr. Faro and Mr. Wheeler were
but diminutive objects in the host of adorers
gathered around tihe young lady; and among the
gossip enlivenmig the party, the report (true for
once) was prominent, that she probably was
as great an heiress this night as before tho
time when the world considered Going &amp; Son
doomed to poverty.
Miss Jessie had granted to every one of her
friends a lively turn around the room,-every
one except Montant, who had not asked the
honor, so, at last, she became quite exhausted,
and requested Walter to take her to the dining.
room for a glass of lemonade. The elderly
gentlemen, who had first taken refuge hero,
had just been requested to leave, that the
waiters might prepare supper, so the room
was deserted.
" I don't like negroes around the house, Wal-
ter, and you know it," said Miss Jessie. "Why
did you order black waiters ?"
"Because I thought it better tact to order
most of the supper from the village than to
have the whole brought out from Dtlmtonico's
at an absurd expense.   Of course, I was
obliged to take what waiters these people
could give me, and they a're lamentably, though
unmistakably, black."
"Get me the lemonade, like a good fellow,"
said his sister.
" Why don't you dance with-your lover? it will
be his last ciiane," suddenly whispered a voice
behind her, with marvelous rapidity, yet per-
fect distinctness.
She turned around, with a start, so fright-
ened that her heart stood still; but no one
was near except a black waiter, busy at the
sideboard, which stood not far from her chair.
She scanned him closely. He was apparently
an old.darky, with gray wool, and stooping
considerably.  le quietly followed his occu-
pation, without noticing her motions.
"Did you dare to speak to me ?" inquired
the young lady. sternly.
" What did you command, Miss ?" inquired

138

FATE.

159


160                   GOING AND SON.

the negro, running up with great servility.
"Did you speak to me?"'
"I want to know whether you spoke to
me ?"
" Oh, no, ma'am," answered he, with hum-
ble surprise.
"All right, then," said Miss Jessie; but
when Walter returned with the lemonade, she
related the queer circumstance to him.
The consequence was, that. Walter took oc-
casion to watch the old negro whenever he
could do so unobserved by the latter. Then
he drew the attention of Mr. Paradise to some-
thing indefinitely strange in the man's.appear-
ance, when closely watched, and finally, the
Baron de Stombe was advised by Mr. Para-
dise to favor the same individual with his
regards.
"Can it be he ?" inquired the hunchback.
"'Pon my word," replied Mr. Stump. "with
all due respect to my friend Staletoe, I don't
believe he is cunning and bold enough to
come in here, and in that rig. No, no, it ain't
him."
CHAPTER VIII.
A BROKEN HEART.
"Like the lily.
That once was mistress of the field and flourish'd,
I'll hang my head and perish."
Kira HENI-Y VIII.
THE small conservatory which, as in most
American country mansions, adjoined  the
dining-room, was illumined by Chinese lan-
terns, whose colored lights gave the room and
the flowers around a fantastic appearance.
here, a few couples sought refuge, when the
dining-room was thronged with guests, and
among them were Miss Jessie Going and her
cavalier, the fortunate and envied Mr. Wheeler.
Miss Jessie, who had not deigned to invite our
hero's attention to her any more than he had
volunteered to approach her, seemed, never-
theless, to keep him slightly in sight, and
when she noticed him in company with Mr.
Paradise, walking through the conservatory in
whispered but earnest conversation, she con-
eluded to seat herself there among   the
flowers.
"You may bring me an ice into the con-
servatory," she said, to her escort.
She could not see Montant and Paradise,
though she knew they were on the other side
of the stand on which the flower-pots were
placed; but being seated near the door, could
see who entered or left the room.
Presently Mr. Paradise stepped out. Then
she knew that Montant was. there alone, and
surmising that he might soon follow, and on
his way out, find her alone, she arose to meet
the gallant Mr. Wheeler half-way, when the
old negro waiter, who she was certain had
made that queer speech to her, in the early
part of the evening, appeared at the door of
the conservatory. In his hand was a bottle
of champagne, and he seemed to be looking
for some one lhe could help to wine.
" Waiter," called Montant, from the other

FATE.                         161

end of the conservatory behind the fragrant
partition, "I wish you would bring me a glass
of champagne."
His tone was weary, as if he had seated
himself to rest, and was loath to go after the
desired refreshment in person.
"Yes, sir," replied the waiter, with great
alacrity, and turned to the table to get a
clean glass. Miss Jessie watched him from
simple desire to keep out of his way; while
the darky was too much occupied with some-
thing that seemed greatly to excite him to
notice her in the nook where she had again
retired immediately upon noticing his hateful
face. ie was doing something to that bottle
In another moment he hastened away to bring
Montant his glass of wine, and as he passed
her a small crumpled piece of white paper
came out of his pocket as he withdrew his
hand therefrom. Intuition suggested drug-
Montant-and danger. At this moment Mr.
Wheeler brought her the ice, and was hor-
rified at the treatment he received. She
pushed him violently aside, and hastily turning
the corner, saw Montant at the other end of
the room, alone with the waiter, who was
just filling his glass. Our hero held it in his
hand, and in another moment would have
swallowed the contents, when the glass was
snatched from him, and while it fell to the
floor in fragments, a voice he knew well,
gasped:-
"It is poisoned! I saw him pour it in I",
And there stood Jessie, white, and shaking
with emotion. Montant sprang to his feet ; he
seized the negro by the throat, and cried,-
" Confess, or I'll throttle you I"
In an instant the conservatory was filled
with people from the dining-room. Montant,
fast losing control of himself, perhaps would
have made his threat good, but the darky,
with great dexterity, drew a dagger. A shriek
from the ladies, a stampede among the gentle-
men who stood around, as usual, with open
mouths-yet Montant was saved from the
murderous weapon, for a little man with a
black beard and foreign appearance intercepted
the threatened stroke, disarmed the assassin,
and handcuffed him in a instant. Then the
guests saw with astonishment that the skillful
foreigner was Mr. Paradise's friend, the Baron
do Stombe.   The baron clutched his long
beard, it came away, disclosing the bland and
smiling face of Mr.'Stump, and pointing to the
handcuffed prisoner, with all the delight of a
showman exhibiting a gorilla, he exclaimed,-
" You knows me, Mr. Mountain; but do you
know your sweet black friend?"
Our hero suddenly guessed the truth.
" If I could only get a leetle soap and water,"
continued Mr. Stump, amiably, "I would show
the ladies and gentlemen here assembled the
white face of Mr. Antony Staletoe, the most
no-to-ryus falsefire, stubborn thief, and man-
killer in all this enlightened kentry I"
" Take me away I" snarled Stilletto, the ex-
pression of whose face was happily obscured
by his disguise. So Mr. Stump obligingly
escorted his capture out of the room, followed
by every one except our hero and Miss Jessie,
Iwho stood by him, not knowing what to do--.

bewildered, confused by - a thousand emo-
tions.
"You have saved my life l" he whispered,
in that soft, caressing tone that no woman
mistakes.
" Thanks to the mercy of Heaven," she
replied, trembling violently.
Do you mean what you say ?" he con-
tinued, quickly. " Do you mean that you are
not indifferent to my existence ?"
"Indifferent ?" she cried, convulsively, clasp-
ing her hands, and striving in vain for con-
posure.
" Oh, do not turn away from meI Look up
-look in my face and see a man who is about
to make a strange confession."
Completely at the mercy of the moment,
she looked at him. In her tearful eyes he read
what she could no longer disguise.
"Jessie," he whispered, taking both her
hands, " I owe you my life. I belong to you. I'
.can not continue the struggle. My strength is
gone. It must find utterance. Now, at this
moment when Providence has thrown us to-
gether, I must confess it, though it cost the
life you have just preserved."
She could not find it in her soul to resist
him. Like a charmed bird she awaited what
she knew must come. Trembling, and beside.
herself with agitation, she felt her heart leap
with delight-and a thrill of eestacy run
through every fiber of her pure body as he
put his arms around her, and whispered,-.
".Jessie, I love yOU"
Since when ?" she murmured.
"From the moment I first saw you."
And you never told me till now I" she
moaned, stepping back and burying her face
in her hands. With shivering terror she real-
ized the misery, the deceit, the sin of his con-
fession.
Not so he. With a ruthless, almost fierce,
determination, lie cast aside all consideration.
and all the duties lie owed to Josephine, for
he felt that this moment separated him from
both forever, and lie was resolved to taste the
sweet cup before accepting the endless bitter-
ness he knew was in store for him. His arm
tightened around her.
"Answer me," he whispered, intoxicated
by the bliss of holding her trembling form,
her throbbing bosom close to his heart.
"Answer me. Tell me once, at least, what I
see, what I feel, what I know already. Do
not withhold from me the height of blessed-
ness, but tell ine that you love ine."
" I do," she sighed, in a heart-broken, yet
fond tone, and hiding her face in his bosom.
"May be it is wrong and sinful; but I can't
help loving you."
And their love, gathering strength, quicken-
ed his boldness and conquered her timidity.
Their lips met, and for a moment they forgot
that they were standing on the brink of de-
struction, and that this foretaste of heaven must
be their farewell to all happiness on earth.
Although nearly unconscious of all sur-
roundings, and of the danger lest an eaves-
dropper watch them, lie had instinctively
drawn her into the farthest corner of the room,
wvhere tile tall plants almost concealed them.
Il

But their voices might have been overheard
in the deserted apartment, and when, from the
intoxication of love, she returned to reason,
and strove to free herself from his embraces,
she suddenly whispered,--
"I hear footsteps on the other side of the
room. Could some one have heard us ? For
the peace of all of us, I hope not I"
Yes, there had been steps, though they
quickly glided from the room. Josephin's
misgiving heart led her to discover the absence
of those two from the company.   She had
stolen into the conservatory, and from behind
the wall of flowers heard all. She was gone
now, and the two ,looked with guilty uncer-
tainty at each other's doubtful faces.
" Guilty?  No," he said to her, warmly.
" What the heart dictates can not be wroig.
I wl save Josephine from a -life of misery by
disguising no longer what had better be known
now, than, after marriage."
"But, merciful heavens! how will this all
end ?" she cried, wringing her hands.
"Jessie," called her father's voice, and the
old gentleman appeared at the door. Tiho
young lady hastened to his side, heedless of
her disordered hair and the treacherous blush
scarce yet departed from 1er forehead and
beautiful neck.
" Our friends talk of going home," said her
father, not noticing her rather strange appear-
ance and manner.
" At this hour ?" she cried. "Why, the
dancing has hardly commenced yet.  Walter,
order a galop, and we will lead it oil."
Walter obeyed, and they so inspired the rest
that in spite of the cloud cast upon the party
by Stilletto's murderous attempt and subse-
quent arrest, dancing really commenced with
renewed vigor. Jessie seemed indefatigable.
Not a friend among all the gentlemen failed to
obtain her hand for a turn ; but her father saw
what escaped most people, that the tears stood
in her eyes, and she had to bite her lips before
she could laugh or make a merry remark.
Aid thus she danced on and laughed away,
weeping incessantly.  She would have given
any thing for "a good cry," and at last, unable
to stand it any longer, she ran up-stairs with
a laugh and a jest, to throw herself sobbing on
her bed.
11er father softly followed her, and, as his
anxious ears caught the sounds of her distress;
he turned away with a heavy sigh, leaving her
to conquer herself alone.  -
Montant paced the library a long while,
wondering what to do. Finally he re-entered
the parlor where Josephine was conversing
with Walter, who soon yielded her to our hero,
to attend to his duties as host.
" Josephime," lie said, in a low voice, bend-
ing over her chair, "I have a confession to
-make to you."
"Not to-night," she replied, hastily. " Wait
till to-morrow."
" Why to-morrow ? It is a serious matter,
and weighs on my heart heavily."
" Wait tilt to-morrow," repeated the widow,
rather decidedly:- and without paying any
more attention to him, she left the room.
.Did she already know what he had to con-


fess to her? Had she listened in the con-
servatory ? As he tortured himself with these
doubts, Jessie entered the room, and Montant
saw that she had been weeping. He watched
her, the queen of the dance, glancing quietly
around the host of admirers that flew to her
side, and longed to be near her to shield her
from the gay throng that little suspected the
cause of her agitation.
'lDance with mo, or it will look strange,"
he said, below his breath. "Walter has asked
me twice why I have neglected you in this
conspicuous manner." With a strange smile
she accepted the oler, and they danced until
both were tired out, when she took her
brothers arm and walked away, without hav-
ing looked at him or moved her lips.
Josephine came to the door and saw them
dancing, and then retired to Bella's room. She
entered softly, leaving the door ajar, and sit-
ting down by her sister, she took her hand.
Bella looked quietly up from the book she was
reading, to see what, was wanted.
"Do you hear that beautiful waltz ?" said
Josephine, gently, as the strains of music
reached their ears like fairy melodies from
dreamland." Those notes remind me of the
merry days of my girlhood.  Once I could
dance and laugh with any. I am too old for
them now."
In mute sympathy Rella pressed her sister's
hand tighter, gazing earnestly and inquiringly
into her face, and so the two women sat in
silence for some tiue, in the ditnly-lighted
room, while below the dancing was at its
height.
"'Bella," said Josephine. "I shall never
marry."
Still Bella did not speak; but a grave, sad
expression settled on her face.
" That walt tisidivime," continued Josephite,
in an unnatural voice. " Ite is dancing with
her now. I saw them dancing together."
And Bella leated -over to her sister, and
tried to lay Jo-ephiine's head upon her breast.
" What has happetied," she asked, fearfully.
"le has bletraved me ! Ie has kissed her!
le has confessed that lie loves her!"
" And  ou heard him ; saw him ?" asked
Bella, more excited than her sister.
heard them only. It was enough. I do
not know what makes me so quiet. I have
talked an acted like a rational being efer
since. Isn't it strange ?"
Strange, iindeel!"
Well, Josie." said Della, after a pause.
Was I not right, when I suspected that this
would come to pass? lhas he said any thing
to you about it yet'?"
No. Ile told me that he had a confession
to make, but I put him off till to-morrow."
"LHow calmly you speak of it," said Bella,
alarmed.  - To hear you, one would think you
never loved him I"
Josephine shrugged her shoulders.
"Vhat do you intend to do'?" asked Bella.
"Go hone with you by an early train to-
morrow-provided you will take me with
you."
Bella pressed1 her tightly to her heart, and
no further answer was needed. Then the

tailor's daughter spoke long and soothingly to
her, and before the music had ceased Joseph-
tae was weeping, but not altogether miser-
able, in the embrace of her faithful sister.
'Ihat same night, Mr. Going promised that
he would not divulge their intended depart-
ure, and before any one in the house was
astir, except one servant, Bella and Josephine
had left the Priory, and were on their home-
ward way. Montant found a note left for him
by Josephine, and his misery was not lightened
when he read the following:-
"I overheard every thing in the conserva-
tory. I thought I had a right to listen to all
that you would say. I was wrong, and ask
your pardon. I am certain you intended to
tell me all; but I would save us both from that
humiliation. I begin to feel that our engage-
ment was a very foolish affair. I am too old
for you-you want a young girl for your wife,
and since you have found her, be happy with
her. You are hereby released from all that
you have ever promised me; but I beg you
to believe that I bear no malice, nor do I
blatte you for, at last, succumbing to a pas-
sion born in your heart before you ever knew
me. I amt happy in the remembrance of the
good that has come to you and your friends
through poor mite, and it will be _a coatfort to
me im my future loneliness.
"(ood-bye, Ernest; good-bye!
"As I respect and honor man, so I respect
and honor you, and- I thank God that a hasty
marriage has been prevented from condenit-
itng you to an everlasting struggle between
your ditty to me and the dictates of your own
heart.
" Ever yours, affectionately,
"J sEtu'm:."
Two hours after the receipt of this letter he
left the Priory to take up his residence in New
York. He. wrote to Josephine that he had
not even attempted to see Jessie again, and
lie begged her to forget and to forgive, insist-
ing so far as lie could upon marriage on the
appointed day.
lie received an answer in Bella's hand. It
was a courteous, even friendly letter, but it
told him only too plainly that even if Joseph-
ine were disposed to relent, Bella would never
allow it, and he knew that the weaker woman
would abide by the better judgment of her
stronger sister. Then lie wrote to Josephine
once iore :--
"My pride is so humbled by Mrs. Van
Stromn's very kind letter, that I do not care if'
the ship sinks, that is to take mie to Europe
to-morrow. I will try if my home in England
and life with my parents will afford me that
peace of mind I can never again enjoy in the
society of my friends here. I am now a singu-
lar spectacle 1 A man who has had the greatest
successes in mercantile life, and who has been
blessed by the love of two noble, beautiful, and
true women, yet finding himself so miserable
and sick of life that it is a question whether it
is possible to bear all and live.
- I will not ask you'aga  to marry me. I
have too mitch respect for your pride anid
your wotmanhtood to do so; bitt I can not
either marry the girl, for whlont I confess I

169

GOING AND SON-.

16~                             GOING AND SON.                                                                           FATE.

have a maddening passion, I am also certain
that under the circumstances Miss Going would
never consent. And so--farewell-for ever 1
" ERNEST MONTANT."
He sailed for Europe, where he arrived just
in time to see his father breathe his last. He
had not dissolved partnership with Mr. Going;
but on the contrary, his, visit to England was
employed to extend the British connections of
the house. In consequence of the continued
good-fortune which crow ned the operations of
the firm, and his mother's excellent standing in
English society, he came in contact with many
of the first families. and as his calm dignity,
solid sense, and high principles suited the
tastes of the English aristocracy of birth and
commiierce, he made many warm friends, and
had capital opportunities of marriage.
Bathe discarded all such ideas. ie was well
aware that the love born in his heart when Io
was hardly a man, had grown with his growth,
sending its root and tendrils through and
around his heart until separation had become
impossible.
And then every letter which readied him
from across the ocean lore that, name so dear
to hit.  Not only timt name, but his own
linked with it. In his replies, he never min-
tioied iem own name, which intoxicated him
with a thousand sweet remembrances, for lie
dared not. How    beautiful W\alter's elumiisv
pemanship became when he wrote those six
letters ! Every letter seemed to tell its own'
tale, and call him back across the water where
lie had left his heart, his hope, his happiness
*      *       *      *       *      *
It is not to be supposed that Josephine left,
the Priory in a happy imootd. The peace Bella's
faithful friendship promised her was too wide-
lv difl'ei'ent frot the happym prospect that haid
beguiled her dreams. Weeping in silence, she
implicitly followed Bella's counsel, anl liotughi
her gentle soul could not harbor bitterness
against Ernest Miontant, her distress was uer-
whelming.
On their way from the Priory, Bella called
religion, that great refuge of woman, to her
aid, and painted to Josephliie's loving heart a
world of goodness, and charity, which they
would erect in the midst of this cold. harsh
world of enmity and unkindness. h'lie im-
mense wealth they had inherited wouh enable
them) to carry out any project for the relief of
misery, and active benevolence would keep
her mind too thoroughly occupied to brood
over her sorrows. And though these two
women despised' poip and pride. their con-
seiousness of the power of goodness they
wielded in their large fortune, caused them to
exult in its possession, and in making their
plans for the future, they forgot for a time
the present distress.
And so, planning, they came to the old house
where poor John had breathed his last. ''ie
day was lovely, and the genial breath of spring
was in the air.  The ca-9iage rolled up to the
door, where the servants awaited them. Home
again, bitt howc?
Josephine Van Strom was not a woman to
surrender all the blessings of love without a
sharp struggle. All is glorious and beauttiful

163

I without--the bursting buds and blooming flow-
ers; the waters murmuring a melodious ac-
companimtent to the songs of the birds newly-
awakened to their iusic; and the soft winds,
breathing a thousand perfumes, rustling softly
in the new foliage overshadowing the lonely
path of that poor traveler, homeward bound to
a desolate peace. All nature is attired in a tri-
umphal garb, and all things earthy seem to re-
joice-but there is a broken heart in the midst
of all these splendors. Although this heart
be but an atom in the earth, though this whole
earth be but a speck in the universe-yet this
poor broken heart, inftiite in its sorrows, cries
to the Lord of worlds, and is heeded by the
Omnipotent. Another appeal for mercy I
And can tis poor broken heart be umeaded ?
CIIAP'TEI IX.
IHOWI TT wAS MINIEt).
Fate, show thy forced: ourselves we 1tt nut ow."
1wxrmm N titiT.
FALwas approaching; the wind blowing
around the oh Priory brought an autumnal
chill, and Mr. Walter Going kindled mu wood fire
in the old-fashioned fireplace of his chamber
with his own aristocratic hands. Mr. Walter
Going gazed into the mierry flames, which, to
the musie of the dismal moaning wind, danced
a cheerful defiance to the howling lamentations
sweeping through the parks and around the
walls of the old mansion.
It was a- splendid room in which we have
seen the tire built. Implements of gunning
and fishing, cricket bats raquets, all sorts of
weapons, portraits of noted horses and dhogs,
reminiscences of sporting life, such as Derby
paintings and hunting scenes;-here and there
some lovely woman's picture looking dismayed
in such masculine company, a book-case, a gun-
rack,-in fine, a crowd of objects to cheer the
cheerless life of a bachelor.
Mr. Walter Going sat before the glowing
logs, and being in want of something to do, re-
called to his mind " Reveries of a Bachelor."
and philosophized. And to that grand con-
clusion did lie arrive, not for the first time
either:-
" I want a wife!"
Mr. Walter Going took a fresh cigar from mu
box just opened, displaying an aristocratic ar-
ray tof' weeds from the " 'Vuelta A bajo." The
fresh cigar soothed his nerves, but the old con-
clusion came back :--
"1 want a wife!"
The fresh cigar was emitting Fantastic
wreaths of smokec, mand Mr. Walter Going,
stretching himself on two chairs, watched the
asen-i(ing rings. Either they inspired him, or
his own vague fancies assumed shape, for lie
suddenly pushed away the second chair, moved
closer to the tire. and, as addressing the co-
quettish fitmes, sait, auttibly-
"I have an idlea!
TIhe somud of his own voice seemed to
mirotuse huimr.; lie laiid away his cigar immitediate-

FATE.


GOING AND SON.

ly, and descended to his sister's room. He
knocked, and upon being admitted, found his
father there, writing a letter on Miss Jessie's
pet escritoire.
Welter kissed his sister affectionately. He
noticed (not for the first time) that she was
looking pale, and her beautiful face was more
apathetic than usual. "Are you writing to
Mr. Van Hagen, father ?" he inquired.
"Yes," replied his father.
" Do you mean to accept him, Jessie ?"
asked Walter, lazily throwing himself on the
sofa.
"I do," replied his sister, indifferently. " He
is a gentleman, and that should be enough,
nowadays !"
" You intended to accept him some months
ago?"
" Yes; but circumstances prevented."
"Will you do me a favor, Jessie?"
" Any thing reasonable ; but pray don't
ask any thing difficult to perform?"
"Postpone  this  engagement   for  two
months."
"Why ?" exclaimed Mr. Going, looking up
quickly.
"Because I, as an always dutiful son and
ever attentive brother, ask this as a special
kindness and favor to me."
The engagement was postponed.
That same night Walter wrote a long letter
to Ernest Montant. It ended with this sen-
tence,-
" I know what I am talking about. Trust
to me, as far as the girl is concerned. At the
same time, I ask you not to show your face
here until after Jessie's wedding, unless you
know what you are talking about. Write to
me, and I will answer iiniediately."
With this mysterious paragraph the letter
closed.
A few days later, Mr. Walter Going made a
trip to an Eastern watering-place, where he
found, as he expected, two widows. They
were both immensely wealthy, and while the
elder and planer-looking of the two had re-
ceived some offers of marriage, the younger, a
very beautiful woman-quite as rich as the
other, and of an excellent family, being tha
daughter of the late General McLane-a-was
besieged by a host of suitors coveting her
money, and perfectly willing to take her into
the bargain.
At first, Walter was almost afraid to at-
tempt to approach the fairer of the two, so
difficult was it to fight a passage through the
phalanx of admirers that surrounded her; but
he found that Josephine Van Strom loved to
talk to him. With easy freedom she conversed
about the old times, and inquired about Ernest
Montant in a manner that made him hope she
had learned to regard her love for him as a
past dream.
For a week or more he courted her, and one
evening, when the moon was shining brightly,
lie asked her to walk with him out over the
white sea-beach. There lay the ocean, hushed in
sleep and coated in silver. Only in faint mur-
mnurs did the drowsy breakers roll up, while
high above, in the starry sky, rode the brilliant
sovereign of the night, shedding her luster of

love over the endless, mighty sea, and expand.
ing all human souls far beyond their own
littleness amidst the solemn, glorious majesty
of nature.
" Mrs. Van Strom," said Walter, "I want
to talk to you about a friend of ours in
England."
"Is he well?  Heaven knows I wish him
all good."
"Do you care for him?" he asked, with
some agitation.-
" Yes; he was my lover once, as you know
very well, and now, although we are separat-
ed for ever, I have nothing but prayers for
his welfare and earnest hopes for his happi-
ness. What do you hear of him?   What is
he doing?"
"He is miserable!"
" I know why," said the widow, drearily.
"Now," Mrs. Van Strom, began Wal-
ter, summoning all his energy, " it is very
well to be kindly disposed toward a friend, but
it is altogether a different thing to do some.
thing for that friend. . I want to ask you
whether, for his sake, you are willing to make
a sacrifice-one that may be, great, yet may
result in great happiness for-you."
I don't know what you mean."
Let me explain myself.   We are alone,
with the ocean, the moon, and our thoughts.
At such a time 1 think two human beings may
so far throw off the shackles of society as to
be frank with each other, and discuss freely
the subjects nearest their hearts."
The widow signified her acquiescence, and
slackened  her steps, perfectly willing to
listen.
" Ernest Montant loves my sister. He al-
ways did, and always will."
" Arid she loves him."
" Then," said Walter, " why don't they
marry ?"
Josephine was silent.
" Because their pride keeps them from it,"
he continued. "lie feels as if he had com-
mitted a great wrong, and isstubonly resolv-
ed to make himself and my poor sister
miserable. All from honorable motives !"
Still, the widow did not speak.
"'T'here is a remedy," said Walter, hurried-
ly. "And two weeks agq, when I found that
my father had determined to marry Jessie off'
to an old man, who would make a respectable
husband for her, and a wretched thing of her.
I wrote a letter to Montant, telling him that I
knew my sister too well not to be aware of
the state of affairs, and asking him to write
to me immediately whether he was still in love
with Jessie, and if he would come home at
once, providing I could succeed in removing
the obstacles his pride and conscience have
created."
"What obstacles?  How can you remove
them ?" said Josephine, with emotion.
" I can't remove them; but you can. You
must marry!"
Josephine was silent, She could not see her
way clear through the thousand conflicting
emotions that disturbed her.
"If you will marry-marry me, you will
free Ernest from his imaginmary obligation anid

make my poor sister happy for ever.  But
you will do more. You are certain to marry
again some day ; but you will never find a
man more devoted to you or more jubilant over
the hope of taking you toehis arms as a loving
wife.  Do not hesitate; let your generous
heart speak, and give me just a little of your
great love, which little I hope will grow in
time, if you will only accept me."
"Give me till to-morrow to decide," said
Josephine, not knowing what to do.
"Do you want to inflict a sleepless night
upon me ?" cried Walter, much agitated. "Can
you be cruel enough to make nie linger in sus-
pense, like a desperate beggar at the door of
opulence ? Come Josephine ! I love you with
all the fervor of my heart, and if you want an
honest, affectionate fellow for your husband,
take me now."
She reflected a moment, and following the
impulse of her heart. which told her that she
was doing right, said softly,-
"Well, 1 am satisfied."
With a cry of exultation, Walter caught
her in his arms, and as he pressed her close
to his heart, he said,--
" I don't understand why all men don't fall
in love with you, Josephine !"
*    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
A month later, Walter stepped into the
library, at the Priory, where his father and
sister were sitting. "In this practical age,"
he said, " there is nothing like announcing
news laconically. So oblige me by reading
this letter, Jessie."     '
Jessie read-" I am engaged to be married
to Josephine." It was dated from New York
a month before, and addressed to Montant, in
London. She started from her chair, and,
coloring crimson, threw herself on her brother's
breast.
" Read the answer, Jessie."
She took the paper from his hand, and-read-
"I start for New York a week from to-day."
In vain did she attempt to hide her emotion.
In vain did she strive to be calm, or to conceal
that she understood the whole situation per-
fectly. Unwilling to betray too much, she left
the room; while Walter said to his astonished
father,-
"It's all right now! I hope, sir, you ap-
prove your children's choice. This is the day
set to answer Mr. Van Hagen."
*    *    *    *    *    *    *    *   *
Walter drove down from the Priory on the
day that Ernest Montant was expected to
arrive, and met him on the pier where the
steamship made fast.
"All well ?" -was Montant's first question,
as they warmly shook hands.
41 All well," replied Walter.
"How is business ?"
" As fine as can be, my boy ; we have mar-
velous luck."
"-If we are only sharp enough to reap our
harvest in time, and not wait till the storms
come, which must break in upon us soon I"
"IPl leave that to you now. You are
smarter than 1."
" And what general news is there of our
- friends?"

"1 Of our enemies I have to report that Stil-
letto has escaped from the punishment which,
as the newspapers say, he so richly merited."
" What ! has he broken ~ out of State
prison ?"
"He never got there."
" Why, how is that possible ?"
"Ask of the winds," quoted Walter, tragic.
ally. "Or, rather, ask the police justices, ask
Mr. Stump, ask the district attorney, ask
the judge of the sessions,-but please don't
ask me."
"Is it possible that justice in this city is so
loosely administered that a murderer can slip
through and gain his liberty in the very face
of the most positive evidence of his guilt ?"
" Not only possible, but true," replied Wal-
ter. "By a complication of somehows he is
enjoying the society of the delightful Mrs.
Fatman in some part of Europe, and I only
hope that she has kept control of the money
she stole from her husband, or she will find
herself deserted pretty soon, I fancy."
"And what has become of Fatman ?"
" He seems to have loved his wife, and is
leading a life of miserable loneliness. We do
not see much of him; but I understand that
he has lost a great deal of money, besides losing
the darling of his heart."
"What have you heard of Martin Bates?"
inquired Montant, with some hesitancy at
pronouncing the name.
"I understand that he really took that girl
Simonetta Marini to Scotland and married her."
" They are a couple well met I"
" Ile was a good fellow." said Walter, softly.
4 My dear fellow," replied our hero, "in this
age of crime and dishonesty, we can not afford
to excuse a felon's villainy by praising his good-
heartedness. Martin Bates was guilty of many
offenses, and, as a good citizen, 1 must set my
face against the placing of a martyr-glory
around such heads as his."
" Yet it was a noble act to take tnat poor
polluted girl anmd save her from all the horrors
of her fate, by marrying her."
Ernest shrugged his shoulders, and then
said,-
"'Let us forget the strange people who
haunted our lives, and came near dragging us
down to destruction with them."
" And let us now have a good dinner at
Delmonico's, and then we will drive to the
Priory. I brought down a pair of horses for
you."
" A pair of horses, Walter? You extra-
vagant dog, there is no help for you."
CHAPTER X.
How IT ALL ENDED.
"What is decreed must be, and be this so."
TWELFTn NIGHrT.
GLoaT to the September breezes blowing
freshly across the country, as Walter and
Ernest Montant drove along on the road from
New York to the Priory. 1If ever the sky

164

FATE.

165

1


GOING AND SON.

was blue, it was on this splendid day, and the
trees already showed, in the gilded edges of
their leaves, indications of the coming splen-
dor of color that would soon turn the woods
into a magnificent display of golden and fiery
tints, laid on by the master-hand of Nature.
And with this external glory of beauty, when
Nature puts on her most gaudy robes, the
hearts of the two young men expanded with a
foretaste of the joys that were now insured for
the future. Still, they did not discuss the ob-
jects of their love-the good dinner at Del-
monico's, followed by a cigar and a delightful
drive to the Priory, were inspiring, but it was
not until the swift horses began to smell the
approach of the stable that Montant ventured
to say:-
"Ias Miss Jessie finally refused that old
fogy, Van Hagen ?"
" There she is to answer the question her-
self," answered Walter, laughing, as he pointed
into the distance, where a lady on horseback,
attended by a single groom, became visible.
Montant tried in vain to conceal his agita-
tion. "What shall I do ?" he asked.
"Tell the servant to give you his horse, and
let him jump in with me," was the answer.
When they approached near enough to re-
cognize each other, Miss Jessie halted, and a
deep color heightened the blush of exercise
that already rested on her cheeks. She then
rode up and said, with a pleasure she did not
care to conceal,--
"Welcome home I This is, deed, a de-
lightful surprise." ~'dae
Without a word of reply, he jumped from
the wagon, and to the titter bewilderment of
the groom, grasped the reins of his horse, and
asked him to dismount immediately.
As the servant knew him, he touched his
hat respectfully, glanced at Mr. Going to
receive his approval, and then did as he was
bid, and held the stirrup for our hero to
mount.
Walter waited for the attendant to take the
vacant seat in the wagon, and touching up his
horses, drove off with a merry ringing laugh.
How lovely she looked in her closely-fitting
ridimg-habit, her black hair waving beneath
her hat and feather, and her eyes bright with
happiness.
" Welcome home once uore !" she said, when
Montant was fixed in his saddle; "and we'll
have a gallop to see if you have forgotten how
to ride."
As England is not the place where gentle.
men are apt to grow rusty in horsemanship,
she had reason to be satisfied when she cast a
sidelong glance at him as they rode abreast.
He had grown a little stouter, and a full beard
gave him a manlier look than before. When
they checked their panting horses, after the
gallop, she said:-
" You have not spoken to me yet!"
" Wait till we reach the spring in the woods.
hard by the road," he replied, with a smile and
sparkling eyes. "Will you please follow ?  I
am very thirsty, and really require a drink of
water."
So saying, he wheeled abruptly from the
road, and she turned with him under the

trees to a spot in the center of a small clear.
ing, where they knew of a romantic, bubbling
spring. He swung himself from his horse,
and tied him to a'tree, without saying a word,
and came to her sid to lift her from the saddle.
His eyes spoke volumes; and though suddenly
seized with trembling confusion,-she allowed
herself to be assisted to the green turf by his
strong arm.
In an instant he had fastened her horse's
reins to a branch, and they stood opposite each
other, alone in the sanctuary of Nature, alone
with themselves and the love that needed no
more restraint.
"Jessie," he cried, opening, his arms.
And there she was in another moment, nest-
ling her beautiful head on his breast; and as
they exchanged the holy vows of love, and
sealed the eternal bargain with their lips, such
a happiness was theirs as reconciles one to all
past suflerings.
"Say, 'Ernest, I love you!l'" he dictated,
pressing her close to him.
" Ernest, I love youI"
"Tell me you have loved me for years,
through all the changes and sorrows we have
experienced together."
"Yes, yes. I have lovesl you ever since I
first saw you."
"But there were times," he said, " when
you thought you did not love me, or why did
you slight me so often, and give me cold looks
and cold words?  If you only knew what I
have suffered for youI"
"Have we not suffered together?" she whis-
pered. " It is true, that when I saw my father
sinking under the weight of his trials, I forgot
all but my anxiety for him; and were you not
engaged to another? That night, when your
precious life was saved through my poor in-
strumentality, when you took me to your heart
in my distraction and grief, I felt that I had
no strength to oppose you. Oh, what changes
have we lived through I"
"But no more sorrows now," he said, joy-
ously.
Her eyes corrobdrated the statement.
"You will never forsake me?  Oh, do not
deceive me now I Do not whisper one word
but what you mean to keep through all time."
She looked up into his eyes, the celestial
light of unbounded love beaming through her
tears.
"Forsake you! .Deceive you!1"
Did he not hold her in his arms, her trem-
bling form throbbing in his embrace, her lips
sealed to his? What further assurance was
necessary. And then they rode home togeth-
er-home through the luscious sun-set-ex-
hilarated by the freshening breezes from the.
Sound. reveling in the words and looks where-
by their exultant hearts sought utterance.
"Home againI" he cried, as he lifted her
from her horse, stealing a kiss while he held
her in his arms in the darkling twilight.
" Home again, for good and forever !"
*      *      *      *       *      *
What a grand double wedding it was at the
old Priory ! H owv beautiful Walter's bride
looked. "Body of Venus and face of Raphael's
Madonna," said Mr. Paradise. But who could

find a simile for Montant's young and bloom-  " Amen," replied the old gentleman, deeply
ing wife !                                moved. "Two children at once," he whisper-
When the words, "love, honor and obey,' ed. "It is not an easy day for one so old
came from her trembling lips, and she bound as I.
herself to be his wife until death should part  When they approached the carriagesrto take
them, his heart swelled with a happiness, their departure, a man stepped forth from tho
greater than he had believed possible, and, al- crowd of spectators congregated  n front of
though he was sufficiently a man of the world the house, and made his way to Montant.
to acceptably entertain the merry company, he  " August Muller is desirous of liking
felt an insufferable longing to be alone with hands with you, sir," said the philosopher,
her, to tell her again and again how he loved heartily, and let me tell you, sir, that he does
her, and how he was rewarded for all his trou- not often descend from his high sphere to con-
bles by the one blissful privilege of calling her gratulate mortal man, even were ho the Czar
his wife.                                of all the Russias."
When all wad ready for theirdeparture on  Montant, delighted with all the world, will-
their wedding trip, a parting glass of cham- ingly gave him- his hand, saying: "We have
pagne was proposed, and the intimate friends traveled rather closely together through life,
and as many more as could crowd in, gathered Mr. Muller. Let us forget what little difmer-
in a circle around the two couples, Mr. Going ences of opinion we have had, and let ic
and Mr. Paradise, who gave the toast in the thank you warmly for the kindly feeling which
following words:-                     .of late you have displayed toward me. Good-
"Let us drink to the health of these two bye
men and their wives. By the solemn vows of  Amid a general hurrah the carriages drove
matrimony they have this day pledged them- off, watched to the last curve in the road by
selves to a life of honor, and the discharge of the excited spectators.
the noblest duties on earth, the duties of hus-  "My friend," inquired Mr. Muller of the next
bandand wife-father and mother. May their bystander "do yenknow what has madb this
homes be blessed and may we see many a so happy a day for my worthy friends in yen-
happy day in this magnificent house, which the der carriages ?" s" d the oun man ad-
spirit of hospitality has chosen for his favorite  "Love, I suppose," sai the yougm
abode. And, further, and I am certain my old dressed, the rustic poet of the village.
and beloved friend (taking Mr. Goings hand  "You judge matters ly secondary or tribu-
and speaking with true emotion) will join me tary causes,' my friend,"replied Mr.Msll,
in the sentiment; further, I say, let us drink with the old sickly smile, and metaphysically
success to the new era, whose happy inaugu- raising his eyebrows. "But what fundamen-
raters have joined hands this day, and whom  tal, creative principle caused this love, to-day
we congratulate with our whole hearts. May culminating in matrimony ?"
the old spirit, which has for so many years  "eI don't kno," answered the village poet,
troubled this house, depart to oblivion. Gen- suspecting that the other intended to laugh at
tlemen and ladies, a bumper I"           him.
"And let tlobgoblin rest among the dead," " ifonwy," replied the great philosopher, and
added the lawyer, in an undertone to Mr. Go- walked off with dignity.
ing "A plague upon all such.
TH END.

-J

166

FATE.

167

J


  
             
         
       
   
