
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Mr. Winkfield .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7256
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Mr. Winkfield 
            
               MR.

WINKFIELD.

A NOVEL.

'NEW-YORK:
THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY.
1866.

1)10

.2


(:P

ENTRIED, according to Act of Congress, In the year 1866, by
L. M. OSBORN,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New-York.
I thIlr'  fc  fth    ititcuto'

NEW emotions filled the bosom of young Wink-
field. Like a high-spirited chicken at the com-
pletion of the hatching process, he felt an impa-
tient desire to burst out upon and astonish the
world. So he put himself on a train of the rail-
road which connected his native village in Massa-
chusetts with foreign countries. The sense of
bereavement at the death, a year before, of his
grandmother, his sole relative with the excep-
tion of an uncle, nature had wisely supplanted
with unusual thoughts of activity; and his pro-
found abstractions upon the science of human
nature would now acquire the little requisite,
which they only lacked to make them   of im-
mense value,- the substitution of real men and
things for those of the imagination. We here
take occasion to hope that no author's weakness
for fine writing or sensational effect, no attempt
at engaging the critical world, however pardona-
ble, will swerve us from faithfully following him
in his varied attrition with human and other ani-
mals. We shall feel amply repaid if we secure
for him the appreciation of the discerning, and
we think he will be found-though somewhat ec-
centric in his sentiments and singular in his per-
son-to be of the stuff heroes are made of, a
great deal less foolish than Thaddeus of War.
saw, and a great deal more conscientious than
the pious Eneas.
Mr. Winkfield took the usual naps, refresh-
ments, and observations, on the day's travel to-
ward New-York. Alive to any illustrations of
the principles of his favorite study-the philoso.
phy of human nature-he noted many little inci-
dents, and one which occurred toward the com-
pletion of his journey, we give here. At South-
Dibbletown station, in Connecticut, a little man
entered the car, looking about him with such a
complacent air, that it seemed, if he was not of'
any importance there, or anywhere else, he at least
had the satisfaction of feeling so. In fact, this
little man was starting out from Dibbletown ready
to do heroic any thing--any thing which would fur-
ther increase the admiration of his fellow-Dibble-
towners. So, as the train approached the suburbs

of New-York, being led to mistake the character of
a person who entered the car and took the seat be-
side him-a clergyman of that class who appear
able to bear much more on their minds than on
their stomachs-and taking him for one of those
impostors or confidence men so frequently heard
of and talked about by the quid nuns of his na-
tive town, he undertook to arrest him, thus to
furnish " matter of talk " to them, like Alcibiades
to the Athenians.
Moses overheard a part of the conversation
which ensued between these two worthies. The
clergyman was about commencing it, as lie
seated himself, when the little man at once start-
ed off in a diverting voluntary upon the various
subjects of the weather, his own circumstances
and intentions, the beauty and grandeur of his
native village, and the exemplary virtues of his
various relatives and ancestors to the twenty-
fifth remove. The clergyman paid attention to
all this, but when the little man had exhausted
himself, briefly replied that a man, no matter how
agreeably surrounded, "had better pay his debts
if he wished to be honored in society !" The lit-
tle man was about to seek an explanation of this
singular remark, when the clergyman went on to
classify the manifold debts and duties of each
and every dweller upon the footstool, to wit, as
a being, as a human being, as a member of so-
ciety, of a profession, as a husband, as a father,
etc., anI, finally, as "a sheep."
"As a what ?" ejaculated the little man.
"In using that term, I wished to designate one
as a member of a fold, of some religious flock,
my friend," replied the other solemnly. Here
he revealed his profession, and stated his implicit
confidence in the.right to ask for any thing, of
any body, anywhere, for its sake.
"Undoubtedly a fanatic !" thought the little
man.
"And you, of course, have heard of our great
Simms Memorial project ?" inquired the clergy-
man earnestly.
" What ? No, sir, I have not," answered the
little man,
The clergyman stated it. It certainly seemed
a beneficial charity, the proposed erection of a
new church in the suburbs of New-York ; and
with enthusiasm glittering in his eye, he gave a
pleasing poignance to his remarks by stating that

MR. WINKFIELD.

CHAPTER I.

WINKFIELD RESOLVES, AND PROCEEDS TO EXECUTE
HIS RESOLUTION.


11

he wanted the sum of twenty-five dollars from  diction again: he hasn't in his mind any church
the other in its aid. In consideration thereof or even any place to put one !)"
the latter would be made a life-trustee of the  "Ehi  I didn't say so.
new church.                                   "You did."
"I have the papers in my carpet-bag, my friend,  Why, no, sir," replied the clergyman, some-
creaingyousuc," ontnue 0he          what affected by the little mnan's excited mariner.
creating you such, continued he.                                           u    jcwa
"In your carpet-bag repeatedtd the astonished " I couldn't have done so. I said our project was
little man.                                 likely to be-         *
1 " Yes. I invented this expeditious method   "Very well. Never mind eplanations. That's
myself. The certificates are bought already made enough, said the little man brefy.  nough."
out, and then the names of the buyers are in-  Here he breathed very hard, and looked for a
-serted; and by endorsement, they become trans- moment at Moses across the passage-way.
ferable, sir. Our object is to introduce them as  Would you like to look at the certificates-
a kind of circulating medium." asked the clergyman holding them out to him.
"As a circulating medium!  By heaven !"     "No, sir ; I would not," replied he turning
"Yes; but of course we reserve the right to again to the clergyman.
refuse admittance to the vestry-meetings to any  Then you will not take one ?"
holder who is not respectable, or will be likely to "No, sir;I will not," said he.
create a disturbance. We receive the money at  The persevering clergyman looked about hni
once for a great many in this way. It is a noble at the other passengers. There was a good op-
plan to save time and labor; very noble !" portunity beside a gentleman a few steps back,
" Hum, I should think so," muttered the little and he at once transferred himself to the vacant
man sarcastically. "But how much do you ex- seat beside the latter. The little man followed
pect to raise in this way ?" continued he.  him with his eyes, keeping those organs upon-
" Oh! about a hundred thousand dollars above him incessantly, and he presently rose himself,
what we have by bequest," replied the confiding moved near, and paused.  The clergyman was
clergyman.                                - having some difficulty in explaining i   ts applica-
" But, look here-there will be four thousand tion to the other, who was a German tourist, with
trustees of the church according to this, my evidently an insuperable ignorance of the Ame -
man ",                                     can language. - The..sll mn procreedd to the
"Very true; still there will be no fear of their exterior of the car, and continued his watch
all attending the vestry-meetings at once, you through the door. From  thence he returned
know."                                      restlessly to his seat, and took occasion to invi-
The little man felt of his pocket-book, and gorate himself with a flask from his carpet-bag
buttoned his coat tightly.                  while the train was passing through the tunnel.
(" By Jove! this is a little too transparent!) He contmued his vigilance, but heroically con-
Ha! ha! Very well. Do you intend to insure cealed the thoughts which were agitating him,
the structure?" continued he presently with an until the cars rolled into thedepot-yard upon
idle air.                                   Fourth Avenue. The clergyman here returned
" Oh ! yes; the policy of insurance was settled to emerge from the car. As he came by, the
at the very commencement."                  little man rose. He suddenly placed his hand in
" What! Insurance   companies don't take the former's vravat. 1ie twisted it around for a
risks on buildings before erection !"       short moment, and then commenced to drag him
1I know it."                              toward the door. The passengers, Moses among
" What is this policy you have had issued to others, jumped back confusedly.  The clergy-
you, then 9'                                man wvas entangled in their legs, and a throttled
"Eh 9 We haven't any policy."            noise escaped from his throat.  The door was
"What did you say-you had one for, then ?"  open. The little man pulled him energetically
"I-I didn't."                             without, and by a culminating jerk of great force
"You did, (by heaven, he's confused!)" said landed hir supine upon the floor of the depot
the little man. "Didn't you say there was a pol- porch.
icy settled at the commencement                 Formang       Form a ring I" said the hack-
"Oh ! yes; I see. I meant, you know, the pro- men upon the porch, with a business air, and
priety, the policy of having the building insured, pushing each other back in a circle around the
the-"     .clergyman.
"1Very well, very well," continued the little  The little man stepped back surrounded by
man with increased shortness.               others of the crowd, and excitedly wiped his brow.
" I think, upon examination, you will approve There was much pushing and changing from one
of the design. Our noble plan strikes every one; to the other of the actors.
and we have a fine prospect, a fine prospect.P'  "What is the natter'   asked the crowd.
continued the clergyman, after a pause, rubbing  "The matter! Why, an impostor, gentlemen,
his hands.                                  raising money on bQgrus religious certificates,
"Undoubtedly; and when it is completed, the whom I felt it my duty to arrest. He attempted it
building will be a splendid towering monument on me and another passenger, a foreigit gentleman:
of your perseverance, eli ?                 They'll now see in Dibbletown whether such
"9Not so much splendid as elegant, kind friend. games can be played on me ." replied the little
The flatness of its situation, you know, near the man in triumph.
Central Park, led us to invite the element of The inexperienced Moses was involved inex-
beauty before sublimity." tricablydwithin an inch of the little man's nose.
" Oh ! ha ! ha ! Then you haven't a fine "And you sat oppost to 'dme ade saw ourm
view, after all," said the little man vehemently, maneuver with his papers ?" said th  atrtu
" What did you say you had one for ? (Contra- hero.

"Yes; I overheard some of his remarks," re
plied Moses. "If it be really as you think, w
must, while pitying him, sir, admire both you
generous purpose in defending society, and th(
promptness of decision which you have--"
Hooray I Dry up !" interrupted the crowd
promptly putting a stop to Moses's remarks, an
at once squeezing in facetious concert, both him
and the little man, very severely. In sympathetic
alarm the two were ready to swear eternal friend
ship, and did succeed in exchanging addresses
Moses being adopted as a corroborative witness in
the absence of the German gentleman, who had
run away with lightning speed at the inception
of the difficulty, under the influence of European
ideas of American manners.
", He's not an impostor. I know him !" here
cried a gentleman in the crowd with an embossed
nose, who had caught sight of the clergyman.
"It's the Rev. Adrunse Botts. My cousin, Jim
Sampson, had a wife or two buried from his
church in Carminy Street, and I see him there on
them occasions"1               ,I
" Eh, not ar impostor! Ha,.ha!I That is pretty
good " said thestrugglinglittle man, with the air of
a man astonished at such a thing being doubted,
but for a moment thereafter he certainly appeared
to be laboring under that impression himself.
" Here comes the poltis," roared several voices.
At this announcement, the little man started.
"By the way, my valise," said he, with a suddenly
hurried air. "You just tell the policeman I've
stepped for my carpet-bag," continued he to
Moses.
" Certainly," said the amiable Moses.
In the seething of the crowd he disappeared to
seek for the carpet-bag. - The policemen arrived
and shook the clergyman by the collar.
"I've been robbed !" feebly cried the latter,
feeling alarmedly for his certificates.
"He has been accused of being a confidence
man, policeman I" said Moses, feeling a pity for
the prostrate gentleman, "and some unnecessary
force, perhaps, was-"
"Who accused him, you ?" asked the police-
man shortly.
S   'Ohl no, a friend-that is, a gentleman,
who-".
"Itan't no such thing.  It is pickpockets,
policeman," interrupted the sympathizer with the
embossed no*e, looking sinisterly at MoseS.
"They've been robbing of him, and trying' to
cover it up by beatin' of him, and sayin' he is a
confidence-man."
A renewed commotion here appeared in the
mob. It dissolved and re-formed like a small
chaos agitated by a new principle. It had dis-
covered-the absence of the little man, and by one
of its mysterious instincts felt he did not intend
coming back again.
'There was a couple, and this is one of the
two," suggested the owner of the nose.
"If yez count the little chap as one, this one
is twohout .of the three, byjabers !" exclaimed
an Irishman, who had been struck with Moses's
noble length of limb.
"I didn't.  I am not," exclaimed Moses in
impulsive indignation.:
" Hum. A pal, is he ? Where's t'other ?"'
asked thme policeman. .
" Cut his lucky, policeman. This one handed
him a card, and told him to run for it. We see

him. Take them air saddle-bags off your nose.
e How air you, four eyes? Hooray, long-legs !"
r roared various individuals.
e   Notwithstanding his astonishment, Moses cast
a look of dignity and scorn upon the crowd at
these feeble witticisms. But this lent the latter
d what pnt they had, and seemed to be consider-
ed by the crowd themselves a much better joke
c than any they could make, for their laughter be-
- came much louder at it.
"Very well. A case of counter-charge. I
can't tell which it is, 'specially this one," said
I the policeman, scrutinizing Moses. "What do
you know about it ?' asked he of the divine.
" I don't know," replied the helpless clergy-
man, still wool-gathering. "My certificates-"
Here Moses and the policeman were obliged to
I dodge a turnip and what appeared to be a piece of
a cat thrown in their direction.
"Do you permit such things as this ?" asked
Moses of the policeman with dignity.
" Hey ? That won't do, young man. It won't
do at all," replied the policeman with sudden de-
cision. "I guess you can come along with me.
Perhaps you had better make a fool of a police-
sergeant, who's been one for three years and
more.   You can come along with me.   Come
along I" roared he ferociously, collaring the verily
astonished Moses, "and let the judge settle it I"
" Eh? What do you mean by this, policeman?
I haven't done any thing," exclaimed the latter,
refusing to stir, with his coat half pulled over his
head. "I1am a stranger. I-I-call upon the
small man. If there are any passengers her-"
" I'll take him, Spanks," said another police-
man who had arrived.  " You take t'other one."
Expostulation was of no use xvith the faithful
guardians, though the reviving raiser of church
funds appeared as much indisposed to submit to
the proceedings as Moses. They were trotted off
together.  An energetic ,atfempt was made by
Moses to address the crowd about him, as the
policeman would not listen to him, and an idiotic
imitation was instituted toward the remainder by
the bewildered clergyman; but they were both
ineffectual from their brevity.  Tie policemen
urged them at excessive speed down, the street
toward that illustrious seat of justice, the Jeffer-
son court-house, and a roaring, whobping crowd
followed them in ecstasies of delight. The whole
procession, for the purpose of shortening the way,
tore through a corner grocery, kept by an astound.
ed and disgusted German. The clergyman again
took leave of his senses at the corner of Sixth
Avenue and Tenth street, and our hero was hav-
ing unpleasant premonitions of a similar proceed-
ing upon his part, when they arrived at the just-
ice's court-room of the fourteenth district.
It was in this way Moses entered the city. Thus
had he, at the very outset of his journey of phi-
losophic observation, become suddenly involved
in one of those curious and almost inscrutable
incidents of human life, which so often surprise
the tracer of the hidden chain of cause and effect.
Yet under these circumstances his natural bene-
volence continued undiminished, and we doubt
if the reader will find it otherwise even under
others to be recounted in these  a    which
were trying enough to drive a common mind
to an incurable insanity, or inaugurate a deep-
seated malignity for life.

MR. WINKPIELD.

4

MR. INKFIELD.


0                                 MR. WIN
CHAPTER II.
MoSE NAB AN OPPORTUNITY OP ODRAVING A STRIt-
ING INSTANCE OF JUDICIAL GRANDEUR. A SHORT
BUT VINE PIECE OF REASONING.
Tna Jefferson Market police court is said to be
a favorite dwelling-place of Justice, and it seems
very likely, if we suppose the olfactory organs of
the goddess are as deficient as her vision. Judge
Pootoops's ideas of the administration of the law,
like those which Numa derived from his secret
nymph in the grove, seemed by their very origi-
nality to be inspired. n his decisions he was,
no doubt, in invisible consultation with Themis.
There is no easier way of accounting for his ex-
traordinary wandering and gazes into vacancy in
some cases, or his velocitous decisions in others,
unless, to speak very plainly, by setting him down
as an ass. Were this latter the case, we might
here make it our object to show how abstraction-
ists of human nature like our hero may be some-
times mistaken in a practical application of their
ideas, not so much from being fools themselves,
according' to the belief of many, as from coming
in contact with people who are. Still this would
undoubtedly look to those who know Judge Poo-
toops, like distorting the truth to show discouttesy
So we prefer to report the incidents of Moses's
examination, and let the reader draw from them
whatever lesson he pleases.
The justice had been seated in his court-room
full an hour previous to the customary evening
session of the day, in company with his constable
or clerk. We mention his habit of expending
the most of his.leisure time locked therein, to in
timate not merely the studious retirement demand
ed by his position as judge, but also his sensitive
unwillingness to obtrude himself upon those witi
whom he had a hopeless diversity of opinion
Such a diversity chronically existed between hin
and his landlady upon the subject of his boar
bill, and he wisely took this method of avoidin[
unnecessary contact with her. He was attired it
a flannel dressing-gown, thus resembling, in sQm
measure, the picturesque presentment of an Ame
rican Indian chief, and was meditating with som
feeling no doubt upon the above matter; while
his friend and constable was contorting himsel
with a needle in hardy endeavors to repair a ren
in the rear of his habiliments, when the trampin
noise of Moses's terrible escort was heard below
and immediately the stair-ease leading to th
court-room  resounded with dreadful scufflinC
stamping and human cries. The constable starte
up and the judge turned pale from association
ideas. As the door was cautiously opened by th
former, a great rush was made upon him. Th
two prisoners had been temporarily thrust int
the adjoining station-house, and the court-root
was now filled with the crowd, -as uickly as
vacuum exposed to the access of !soda wat
under a pressure of an unusual number of poun
to the square inch, and with a species of the sam
effervescing noise. Fighting, squeezing and vil
fication took place, and it was not until the justit
had recovered from three attacks of board-bill ve
tigo in the private room 10 which he had recreate
that the majority of the crowd had pushed othe
from their seats and arranged themselves. Ti
whistling and eat-calls were promptly suppress
by the indignant constable, as the re-assurt

[KFIELD.
judge finally appeared, took his seat, and leaned
his brow upon his hand. An impressive silence
ensued.
"Silence!" roared the constable.
The official-hour had arrived, and the justice
opened the session for the examination of the
day's offenders. A negro was introduced and sent
back committed for having gone into a strange
room, like the sweet south o'er a bank of violets,
and two intoxicated sailors for fighting each other
and peaceable citizens on the highways. Thejudge
began to feel from the unappeased state of the
audience that a very unusual offense against the
lawa had been committed, perhaps, of a deeply
atrocious nature. The door of the adjoining sta-
tion-house opened again, and the Rev. Mr. Adri-
ance was brought in by the sergeant and a police-
man, with his head sunk in his shoulders, and ap-
pearing generally a mass of something indefinite.
" Ha I the corpse !" cried the judge, starting.
"Where is the accused? Let the accused be
brought in I" The policeman packed the clergy-
man into an arm-chair, and while one of them was
attempting to disabuse the mind of the court as
to the nature of the case, the station-house door
again opened and our hero was shoved violently
- into the room by unseen parties. As he turned
, his indignant organs of vision toward his pro-
pellers, the door was slammed again, and with
this want of ceremony, was Moses's first official
introduction to the presence of the great Themis
completed.
The policeman ramblingly stated what he did
e not knowabout the case, but what he thought might
have been, and then a somewhat disagreeable
- silence ensued. The judge stared inquiringl'y at
- the policeman the policeman looked at the con-
e stable, the constable gazed at the audience, and
h the audience at our hero. The latter, like the
. person at the end of a chain of electrical experi-
menters, felt the accumulated force of the whole
d on himself. In addition to this, the constable's
g attention here becoming wholly absorbed by a
n person in the audience, whom he had detected
e in laughing and showing other irrepressible signs
- of amusement at him, the wheels of justice seem-
e ed to be stopping altogether. The hesitation of
e proceedings might have been indefinitely con-
f tinued, had not Moses recovered his presence of
t mind..                             .
g    "May it please your honor, sir," said he, re-
K, spectfully to the judge, "it is with unfeigned
e feelings of mingled as-"
g,   "Silence I Wait tillyou're asked I How dare
d you address the court ?" cried the constable, en-
of ergetically forcing his indignant gaze from the
e spectator who was smiling at him toward Moses.
e "Silence !"
o    "I respect the laws of my country and its au-
m  thorities, and I therefore cheerfully obey you,"
a replied Moses.
er    "I .guess so, I guess so," said the constable,
ds "and let me tell every one in this court, that the
ne rules of the court will be enforced. Silence
ii- roared he, reverting his gaze severely toward the
ce smiling maiimn1the audience.
r- " Constable, conscience appears to have already
d, made an impression upon the offender," said te
rs judge majestically. ",He may proceed. Pro-
he ceed with your confession, pi-isoner i".
ed " But I am not an offender," cried Moses, his
ed anger getting the better of his judgment, "and

MR. WINKFIELP.

as to being a prisoner, I would like to know by "The lamented Simms, one of the most spotless
what right you or any other man can authorize and wealthy of our little flock in Carminy street,
such infamous proceedings as have-"         sir, dying of brain fever, left, by nuncupatory be-
* "Oh ! bah I" said the judge looking at the con- quest, to that flock, the charge of an infant
stable.- "Take him below.  Take what money granddaughter, and the remainder of the Simms
lie has from his person, and make a careful de- property, for the purpose of spreading the good
scription of his weapons"                 news-"
Decision is a cardinal virtue, and particularly  "Stop! That is, go on !" here said the judge
adapted to the judicial conduct, and this rapid ar- with some vehemence. "This spotless Simms-
rival at it moved Moses's admiration to such a what sex ?"
degree, as to induce him to engage here in a  " A sister, my kind friend, and-"
short fight with the sergeant, and to "make frantic  " There it is! just as I expected!" said the
gesticulations of appeal to the judge, in ba de- judge, making a rapid note with an incidental
sire to stay, and express it. When the noise of appearance of triumph over the case. "I shall
his involuntary exit was hushed, the judge issued get at the whole in a few ininutes now.'4
an order to have him brought back agaia-coun-  At this sign of the court's sudden interest the
termanded it, and then directed the semi-revived clergyman, with increased ardor, proceeded with
clergyman to Se further shaken, that he might his chronology.  The infant had been properly
recount his knowledge of the events of the after- vaccinated, put out to nurse and lost in a retired
noon, and more particularly account for the sad Western village, and the vestry of his flock had
pickle in which he presented himself before the determined to devote the entire property to con-
dignity of the court.                       verting the indigent Catholic heathen residing in
"My kind'friend," commenced the clergyman,- the suburbs of the Central Park, by the erection
somewhat recovered from his fright, "you have of a mission chapel there. On that very after-
kindly permitted me to make a few remarks upon noon he himself, as chairman of the committee
this occasion, which, however unimportant the on subscription, while applying to a stranger on
source whence they emanate, may still, perhaps, the New-Haven railroad in the discharge of his
be thought to bear so much of-"             duty, had been assaulted and choked by him,
" D-n it ! shorter I Cut it short!" said the and,.in the confusion of the moment, the malig-
judge impatiently.                          nant creature had escaped, while he himself; be-
" Yes, sir, I will endeavor, with great plea- coming senseless, had been brought to the court
sure."                                      in company with the person below, of whose com-
" Hold! wait!" cried the judge, with sudden plicity in the matter he was entirely unable to
calm. ."Constable, I was guilty just now of judge, except from his looks, which might appear
using improper language and swearing in this somewhat mystical. During this concise recital
court.  Constable, I fine myself five dollars I the justice took notes.  When the reverend
Record the fine, and let the case proceed I" -  gentleman paused he looked up. -
"My friend and - worthy magistrate," con-   "I see you sympathize with us, sir," con-
tinued the clergyman amid the applause of the tinued the revived clergyman. "I find I have
audience, "I will be as-"                   some certificates of membership with me and
" Hold! wait !" cried the judge again. "As will now receive your subscription, sir, if it is
the offense is an unusual one, constable, the pay. handy; and also of _the intelligent audience,
nient of the fine may be remitted !"        which I--"
A general expression of admiration arose in  "What is that, ch ?"said the judge. "What
the court, and the judge, in increased magisterial do you say?"
grandeur, authoritatively commanded the clergy- "A subscription of seventy-five dollars, sir,'
man to proceed sharply and to the point.  .  continued the enthusiastic divine, "will insure
"I will endeavor, with great pleasure, my the erection of a tombstone to your memory to
friend and magistrate, to be as brief as you may be placed in the rear wall of the edifice!"
desire," recommenced the latter; " but I am sure  "What ?" said the judge.
that even as the deepest crimina who has ever  "The beat talent of the church is intended to
souht mercy from  your bowels, which, I am  be devoted to the composition of epitaphs for
conyinced, have always listened to the---"  these as they may be demanded," explained the
" What do you mean by that ?" said the fervent clergyman, "and I am sure the grateful
judge, with renewed irritation. 'IWhat do you recollection of your munificence and your quali-
mean by my bowels listening ?  Confine yourself ties as a magistrate will-"
to facts; that is your business here. Let there  " Constable," said the court, "take charge of
be no unnecessary allusions !"             this person. If he opens his mouth again, take
" Yes, yes I )Quite true !" said the clergy- him below and incarcerate him. Tombstones I
man hastily. "And to revert to our subject, I'll-but I've made up my mind. Let the other
mny kind friend, there is a sweet savor in such a person be recalled. This case can be finished at
desire. 'A moment unmarked, ere eternity be once. Call him up !"
reached, may fix us in such an unchangeable   The system of reliefs which was about being
state that-"                                established between the occupants of the front
" Look here, if you don't confine yourself to seats and parties in the rear of the audience was
facts I will send you below; that's all!" said the abandoned at this unexpected announcement.
judge, increasing in ire. "I want no aphor. The most of the spectators stood up, and, as the
isms 1                                      ease was a sensational failure after all, were mak-
(" Alas, the disdain of the sinner and perishing ing a great shuffling and noise to revenge them-
being I I would prepare his mind for a sweet selves therefor, when our hero was again brought
subscription !) Yes, I will proceed chironologi- into the presence of the curt.
cally then," continued the clergyman aloud.   " My men I" gai the jug    "whether yon

7


'I

8                                MR. WIN.
are to be considered offenders, or witnesses in
this case, the principal person in it has run away.
I shall discharge you both, consequently. And-
what is the matter, constable?"
"Your honor, I hope you will keep order in
this court," said the latter. " Ever since this
here session commenced the constable of this
court has been the subject of the constant con-
tempt of some-soap-fat man present here. I
know it? Let him deny it if he can!"
" I'll fine him presently. Let there be no un-
due levity here !  Fellow-citizens, there is no-
thing in this case which calls for remark, but its
illustration of a maxim which I think I have al-
luded to before in this court, and which I have
come to the conclusion ought to be incorporated
as a fundamental principle of the law. The
maxim is, that 'in every piece of mischief you
will find a woman at the bottom.' There is but
a short chain of cause and effect between the in-
sane female who originally incited this reverend
gentleman to this plan of a church, by donating
to him her property,.and the present predica-
ment in which he is placed. If the lamented
Simms hadn't given you the nest-egg for a
church, Mr. Minister, you wouldn't have com.
menced a church; if you hadn't commenced a
church, you wouldn't be going about soliciting
subscriptions from imbeciles in cars; if you
hadn't solicited a subscription from the one in
the Harlem car, you would not have been suffo-
cated by him, or been here, nor the other party
either I"
Our hero had had time to collect himself be-
low, and his ideas of injury and injustice had
given place to a determination to appeal more
calmly to the authorities upon his detention. In
satisfaction he now fixed his gaze upon the ma-
gistrate's brow.  He seemed endeavoring to
descry within the physical working of the powers
which produced this profound piece of ratio-
cination. Expressions of deep interest were also
plainly observable upon numerous of the specta-
tors, and even the clergyman now stared con-
fusedly at the learned judge.  There were no
more cases, and the constable was ordered to
incontinently clear the court-room.
The learned court here betook itself to its pri-
vate room. The constable glared at the sniliug
spectator, who was leaving with the rest of the
audience, and while the clergyman, flourishing
his certificates, was frantically endeavoring to
procure that functionary's assistance in stopping
the departing crowd, our hero took occasion to
disappear also.
CHAPTER II.
WHILE AWAITING THE, ARRIVAL OF HIS UNCLE
MR. EFFINGHAM TOPLADY, MOSES ENJOYS THI
SOCIETY OF THE HOTEL.
THIS work, properly considered, ought to b
held as strictly philosophical.  Some reader
may laugh, but what of that?  We have knowi
the writings of some of the most serious author
upon the most momentous subjects, which hay
caused every one who read them to laugh cor
sumedly from beginning to end. But that is n
reason why the serious import of a work shoul
not be respected. The emotion of levity, in fac

p

MR. WINKFIELD.

rE

9

is said by some philosophers to be merely a mix-
ed one, resulting from the presence and contest
of two or more of the serious emotions. Is it
the subject, then, of any work, or the author's
treatment of any subject, which causes it in the
reader ?  No. It plainly depends upon the abil-
ity of the reader himself to entertain more than
one serious emotion at a time upon his diaphragm.
If he is of a weak,-unnerved disposition, he will
laugh. If he is firm, strong, and thorough-braced,
he will proceed rationally from the beginning to
the end of his perusal, and rise so much the
wiser therefrom by having thoroughly imbibed
the true 'eiritof the work, instead of was g
his time in idle titillation of his lighter being.
Having started out with the sound assump-
tion that the most subtle and powerful springs
of man's nature   are as frequently played
upon in the ordinary intercourse of civilized
beings of this age and country as in that of any
other, we have proposed to observe such inci-
dents in the adventures of our hero and his co-
temporaries as will illustrate the principles of this
great science; and while we shall endeavor to
leave no incident untouched upon, which forms a
necessary link of action, we shall not hesitate
to devote the space which is usually occupied by
mere microscopic narration of dry events in
works of a less philosophical tone, to such reflec-
tions as our hero or others may make, even upon
subjects which may not be strictly akin to the
topic of the moment. Such, for instance, as the
moral right of jockeys to dock horses' tails, or
of belligerents to dock neutrals' heads, etc., etc.,
so intense is our sympathy with him for, general
science.
While experiencing his short legal durance, and
reflecting upon the cards of address accompany-
ing the frequent baskets of fruit and preserves,,
dispatched by his uncle .to his grandmother,
Moses had pictured in his mind that uncle, Mr.
Effingham Toplady, seated reading in his parlor
at the Evercroft House, all unconscious of his
own trouble or propinquity. Upon eaching the
hotel, he discovered that his relative was tempo-
rarily absent at a country water-cure.
"If there be any thing to be done for you,
however," remarked the pleasing clerk, "you
need no prophetic soul, sir-a quotation excusa-
ble from its aptness-to point out our proprietor
as your uncle, ha! ha! Will your stay be long
or short ? Or, perhaps, sir, you may divide your
sojourn into two periods, and have a pair of stays,
ha! ha! You will excuse the remark from its
point, sir !"
Moses smiled benevolently at the playful yet
courteous spirit of the gentleman, and apprised
him of the uncertainty of his plans. Thereupon
the affable clerk, still pursuing his playful course,
proposed to put him into a seven by ten chamber,
with a sky-light, in the fifth story. But Moses,.
promptly considering that the humor of the joke
would consist chiefly in refusing to be placed
e there, was finally put into a commodiousparlor
s with an inner bedroom, upon the second floor,
n and pleasantly adjacent to a man with the gout,
s by whose scientific swearing he might be divert-
e ed at almost any hour of the day. Thus agree-
t- ably domiciled, Moses's reflections naturally turn-
o ed for a while upon his advent tdott 1populous
d world around him. But as it is said tha tewir
t, does most, who gives his reader the most know-

ledge and takes from him the least time, we wi
merely mention the apothegm which wound u
his meditations, that "in virtue alone lies tru
happiness," and proceed with our narration.
The first objects which attracted his attention
both as a philosopher and as a man, were natu
rally those which were immediately surroundin
him. He felt the infinity of the fields of specu
lation and amusement, when he saw that h
could be entertained for over an hour at dinner
solely by conjectures upon the character of th
person who sat opposite to him. Even the stud
of the end of that person's nose, in the variou
ramifications of the sciences necessary to explai
the causes of its shape, tissues, or color, coul
furnish a meditative mind with occupation for.
month. The color of it solely would bring before
him the whole science of optics, the fine art o
painting, and the mesthetic knowledge of th
various wines in favor at the present day. T
classify facts and educe general principles there
from, is no small job to the unstudious mind, bu
so habituated was our hero to analogies, tha
such work was rathet-instinctive than the labori
ous bending of attention. So, for instance, ho
immediately began to observe a resemblance be
tween the character of his vis-a-vis and that withi
whichUlysses's men were endowed by the kind
attention of the siren Circe.
In two and a half days he became habituated
to the semi-public life of the hotel, and even
began to create some sensation. Like a man
upon a pinnacle,'though a little dizzy with hi
eminence, he thus secured an immediate oppor
tunity of surveying human peculiarities. In fact
so popular was his affability, which possessed the
charm of being real, that the unanimity of ad
mirers had but two exceptions. These were a
young lady in blue, of seventeen, who objected in
secret despondency to his appellation - what
illusion would there be in saying beneath the
softened chandelier of a retired alcove, " Dearest
Moses !" and the other was the principal beau of
the establishment, who felt a violent desire to
wipe out the new-comer by a short conversation-
al encounter, and at the same time a painful con-
sciousness of his inability to do it.
Upon the third evening of his domicile, Moses
found himself seated after dinner upon a sofa
between two lady residents of the hotel, with
whomhe was' promised an agreeable hour's inter-
course. One was a widow with a large fortune,
the other a single lady with a moderate one. The
former was ornamented, according to the fashion
of the day, with a tia-a serving as the bier of the
golden effigy of a defunct lap-dogy, the other with,
a monster butterfly perched upon a gemmed
roost. After a series of courteous smiles and
graceful contortions upon the part of all three, a
conversation ensued, which we have selected
from many more brilliant ones he took part in,
because it is brief, and moreover because it is
our duty to chronicle matters which are not so
much captivating to the public, as instructive to
our hero.
"Is it not delightful, Miss Stacy," said the
widow lady to the other, "to have one so fresh
as our young friend to entertain us ?--and so
talented as I understand lhe is !"
" Indeed, it is so. But although he must suc-
cumb to the charms of your society, Louisa,"
replied the single lady, Miss Stacy, with an air

illI of archness; "you must not monopolize him
p dearest!"  ,o                         h
C   " My dear Julia, how can you accuse me of
that ?" said the other reproachfully; "justice
n, alone would lead me to respect the right to which
i- your address has entitled you."
g    4Address 1" said the fair Miss Stacy, looking
i- askance at Moses.
e    " Certainly, address in securing h'im. I men-
r, tion it thus openly to Mr. Winkfield, Julia, for
e this talent of yours deserves to be known."
y    "Ali! indeed, I thank yon very muhi bui
s perhaps I am wrong, my dearest Louisa, in shar-
i ing his society with you. Gentlemen's society
d has been so unfortunately a void to you lately I"
a "What are they driving at ?" said Moses to
c himself. "This is a very extraordinary conver-
f sation r'
o    " Really, do not display your magnanimity so
o soon, Julia," replied the lively Mrs. Plummer.
.- "r, Winkficld may do you an injustice, per-
t haps, by attributing to your heart that which is
t due solely to your intellect."
-   "In-deed'!" responded the other.  I am so
e happy to see, Mrs. Plummer, that you can discern
- so well mind in others. Next to the possession
of intellect, is certainly the appreciation of it."
I     They don't seem to be addressing me at all I"
observed the astonished Moses to himself.
I   " And fortune has favored you, Julia, With
both ; not only with a lofty intellect," continued
Mrs. Plummer, "but a still loftier appreciation
S of it."
-   "My dear Louisa, it is easy to fail in being
either witty or good-natured by trying to be both.
Dear friend, when my qualities are the subject of
- your thoughts, I would neither have the brilliance
with which you should be inspired lost in ill-
temper nor the good nature in stupidity."
" I-ladies," said Moses.
" Ahem-to change that subject then, my dear
Julia, as it is perhaps uninteresing, and to amuse
f Mr. Winkfield, suppose you now sing your song 9"
continued Mrs. Plummer, as Moses was about
opening his mouth. "I am determined those
rude operatic people up-stairs, who said it was
fortunate you knew but one, shall hear it again
and again, until they retract their jealous reniark
or leave the house. You shall triumph over
them, my dear Julia."
At these remarks, Moses observed immediately
in front of his face, a frantic desire upon the part
of the butterfly to insert his feelers into the brains
of the poodle. He was about to insist with a
mixture of gallantry and concern upon the plea-
sure of hecaringr the charming Stacy, when she
herself interposed.
" How cold it is here, my dear Mr". Plummer"
said she. " Won't you have smy shawl? Think
of a cough entailed Upon you at yos age !"
"Eli! Oh 10no; I will not deprive you of. it,
my dear Julia-Miss Stacy. Oh! 110-11 11a i
ha! No-really-ahem. Ha ! ha! You have
really no idea how much improvement your
figure derives from having something, in fact-
thrown over it V"
The confused Moses was still staring stupidly
at their head-dresses, nd lie here imagined lh
saw an alarming futy in the butterfly, wvbile an
insane expression of malignant hatred alppeared
to settle upon the lincamenits of the lap-dog.
"Really, this is singular I They have apparent-

Ir  v-rkxr TV '

KIEI -


MR. WINKFIELD.

ly forgotten all about me," thought he.  "I
have no chance to join in, occasionally even. I
-I-ladies--" ,
"Excuse me. One moment, Louisa !" here
whispered Miss Stacy to her friend. "Adjust
your hair, the back locks are coming off. Let
me arrange them for youV"
" Thank you, never mind. By the way, Julia,
what a pity it is the fashion of the Chilian ladies
in covering the face also, with their shawls, has
not been introduced here. It would be so be-
coming to you, dear Julia !"
"Aih I speaking of the Chilian ladies l" said
Moses, in some haste, desperately grasping at this
opportunity. "They-"
" Excuse me, one moment, Pardon me if I
was a little inattentive, Louisa. But I was really
admiring your teeth," here interrupted the other
again, having feigned a momentary abstraction.
"The set you are wearing to-night are indeed
beautiful. Who made then? Are they from
Parmer or Trenely "   I
"Heavens! I-I-44-bt do you know, my
dearest Stacy," gasped th6 other wildly, like one
losing her senses, "I must insist upon your ceas-
ing to take that cordial for your complexion! Dr.
Sterling says that it certainly is composed chiefly
of an obnoxious berry, the juniper and--"
" Ma-am!"' said the other.
They -here arose, to Moses's culminated aston-
ishment, excused themselves hastily, and, leaving
him quite unregarded upon the sofa, rapidly pro-
ceeded from the room together, as if actuated by
some similar and very powerful motive. So great
was his confusion at this rapid termination of the
intercourse, in which he had not been able to
make a single remark, that he followed them dis-
tractedly into the hall, from which he observed
them disappearing into a small parlor on its op-
posite side and closing the door after thdm.
Now although he was well versed in the science
of human nature, he did not know that persons
of strong sensibilities, especially females who
have been disappointed in having any one to
love, may sometimes prefer the truly thrilling
ecstasy of hate to the quiet placidity of mere
friendship, and may chronically seek to afford
each other a mutual opportunity of indulging in
that ferveit passion. , And if he had known it,
he probably would not have applied the principle
to the present case. On the contrary, he pre-
ferred the equally tenable theory that they were
much attached to each other, and were only a
little eccentric in their method of showing it.
Of course it was especially natural for them to
manifest much impatience of each other's scorn.
when they at bottom ardently prized each other's
friendship.  Therefore, as to any sounds of
thumping, scratching, and subdued respiration
which he may or may not have heard subsequent
ly 9mainating from the small parlor, if they ar
not to be referred to a dramatic intensification o
the sane principle, they may at least be consider
ed as the hallucination of his excited mind. H(
was not positive about it, nor was he positive
either, on their emerging from the room, which
lie shortly saw them do and go up-stairs, that th
head-dres of one was torn in slits, or that th
butterfly hiad disappeared with his perch an'
some hair from the head of the other. lIe wa
only po-itive that lie thought he saw it, and we
of course, have no right to assume he did. -

It would be transcending our prerogative, al-
though, if we could, we might undertake to give
this chapter extraordinary point by asserting that
such a private method of settling differences is
just as rational and far less hazardous to the sta-
bility of society than the other ordinarily in
vogue among the softer sex of open recrimina-
tion and hysterics.
Our hero was unfortunately deprived of Mrs.
Plummer's society shortly afterward, the latter
being called to temporarily visit an aged relative
at Boston.  But Miss Stacy remained and en-
gaged him in numerous conversations, not only
giving him a pleasing opportunity to ventilate his
philosophy, but appearing earnestly desirous of
seizing the chance to inspire him with the tender
eloquence of personal confidence.
CHAPTER IV.,
MOSES AND MR. TOPLADY PROCEED TO INDULGE IN
THE ENTERTAINMENT OFFERED BY AN EVENING
PARTY. THE PLEASING INCIDENTS AND CON-
VERSATIONS THEREAT.
THE following week Moses's uncle returned to
the city. The presence of his nephew infused
such spirits into Mr. Toplady as to cause him to
give a carter of a dollar respectively to two beg-
gars at the hotel door, which remarkable act upon
his part was regarded by all as a proof of his un-
usual satisfaction. Mr. Toplady had lived, for a
few years past, a retired life. Possessed of a
moderate fortune, he led what is generally called
the life of a gentleman, although, being aware
that among the more censorious this is sometimes
invidiously designated as that of a loafer, he had,
for the sake of avoiding the ignommious appella-
tion, kept an office for the wholesale of Italian
raisins, judiciously located in a place where no
one in pursuit thereof would be likely to find
him.   Having become somewhat suspicious of
human nature, especially of the femimfine side, he
lived quite exclusive of society; but to giv6 his
nephew an opportunity, lie resolved to come out
and even hazard the dangers of an evening party
or two.
" I have a pleasant affair for you, Moses," said
he, two or three days subsequently, in pursuance
of this magnanimous resolve. "Mrs. Fasherlidge
is to meet some friends to-night. I know Fasher-
lidge. Fine, good-hearted fellow. I did him a
business favor once and he didn't cut me for it.
,They say his wife is very fond of these affairs,
, and it will undoubtedly be a delightful evening."
" And the peculiarities of city society are so
f new to me, I shall doubly enjoy it," replied Moses.
Mr. Toplady was well aware that the style of
- manners in vogue in the metropolis was derived
e from the same choice source whence emanate the
f unique costumes which succeed each other in the
- round of fashion. lie considered also that the
e same pretty much consisted in the intellectqal
e triumph of having no friends, laughing at ac-
h quaintances, and staring strangers out of counte-
e nance. So he secretly felt he ought to here cau-
O tion Moses on these little fashionable peculiarities.
d " You inqst not mind any of the careless free-
.s dom from restraint which you meet with, Moses,"
~, said he carelessly. " Reckless love of fun of
iNew-York young people, you know."

"Of course not," replied'Moses benevolently
"Where no offense is intended it only makes th
occasion the more spirited."
" Oh! yes. There will be freedom and noise
gayety enough there, I warrant you. That's th
thing. Every one is full of life at our New-Yorl
parties; all hilarity and mirth."
" Well I like it; it is certainly much bette
than ceremony," replied our hero, "certainly.'
Carried with his uncle in a coup to the Fash
erlidge residence in the evening, Moses notice
many carriages standing in front, both the driver
and horses of which seemed desirous of vyinc
with the stock-stillness of the vehicles. As the'
entered the hall, the same refined quiet still ap
peared, somewhat unexpectedly to them, to reign
"All! we are, perhaps, a little early," whis
pered Mr. Toplady to Moses. "Not many hav
arrived yet.'..
A domestic, who had been gazing at their over
coats in subdued anxiety, here pointed silently t
the staircase, like a bandit chief, afflicted with
tie toothache, ordering his prisoners to theii
garret; and mounting to the dressing-room, oui
friends were prepared for the occasion below by
a similar dreary blockhead, who seemed to enter
tim humane scruples against divulging the des
tination of the visitors. Returning, a faint sound
of whispered conversation was all that fell upon
their cars as they approached the parlor door.
"'You may go in !" said the bandit chief, now
softening his manner to that of a sexton.
Eli  said Mr. Toplady, somewhat confusedly.
"Many guests in there yet, Thomas ?"
A good many of the church has arrove," re
plied the domestic solemnly.  "Dr. Coddle hasn't
come yet though."
Good gracious ! what is the matter with the
servants ?" murmured Moses to his uncle. "And
this dreadful stillness ! Can the family have met
with any domestic trouble which-"
Eli ?" said Mr Toplady, hesitating. " Has
any trouble occurred in the house, my man,
which prevents-"
Oi! no. Walk right in, sirs," replied the
domestic, in the delicate tone of a sympathetic
undertaker.   There is no trouble-leastwise not
until supper."
Our friends opened the door and entered. A
more audible sound struck their ears, but it still
seemed exceedingly disproportionate to the large
number of guests which they beheld in the apart-
ment. If it were a gathering for social diversion,
it certainly appeared as if a slight paralysis of the
festive faculties in requisition upon such occasions
Must have been lately visited upon the parties
engaged therein. Some of them were gazing into
vacancy, with what really seemed to Moses to be
a strong air of helplessness; others appeared to
manifest a stern expectation of beiig relieved by
these; while several of the less spell-bound were
valkimg about, as if humanely endeavoring, by
gentle conversation and velvet foot-falls, to break
the enchantment without undue violence. A gen-
tleman who had been seated in a corner of the rear
room, indulging in the healthful practice of warm-
in- his feet, arose and came toward them.
Alh Toplady! I am   glad you have come.
You n-ill, 110 doubt, enjoy the evening vei-y much,"
said this gentleman, after the salutations. Ihere
lie paused, and cast about the room a look which
was rather expressive of the lively feelings of

. hatred and disgust than any thing else, and wlich
e seemed to deprive him of any desire to continue
the conversation with them.
y    "Mrs. Fasherlidge is still dressing, but she
e will be down directly," continued he, hesitating.
k " And excuse me-I'll see you again during
the evening, of course." With these words lie
r walked off toward the retreat from whence he
" had emanated.
-   Upon recovering from their surprise at this un-
I expected decarnpment of the host-for such the
s gentleman was-Mr. Toplady and Moses were
g about resolving to cross the room, or do some-
y thing else very desperate, when a very gorgeous-
- ly dressed lady entered the apartment, and suc-
. cessively saluted the guests. The sensation of
- this event commanded the presence of the spirit-
e ed host again. He emerged, and presently intro-
duced our friends to the lady as his wife.
" I pray you take seats, gentlemen," said the
o latter rather loftily, and glancing significantly at
her husband.
r   " Mr. Toplady is a gentleman of wealth and
r leisure, whom  you will be proud to know, my
dear," said Mr. Fasherlidge, seeming to derive
- some malignant pleasure from making his whis-
per quite audible.
" Ali! allow me to welcome you to our humble
palace," said she, with a sudden smile of gmeat
sweetness. "Excuse us; in endeavoring to offer
instruction as well as amusement to our friends,
we struggle for diffused ease as the first requisite
amid the magnificence of our entertainments.
We make them as unconventional as possible,
- you observe. Do you not think we are judicious ?
Excuse ceremony, sirs."
" Thank you-not at all!" replied our friends
warmly.
" You can leave," said Mrs. Fasherlidge, sud-
denly turning to her husband, and smiling upon
him conjugally. "As you are not wanted here
now, you can go up and sit with the child. You
know I shall require all the domestics, and can
not spare Gretchen. Such singular misfortune!
Children invariably are taken with the hooping-
cough just when our attention is absolutely re-
quired in other matters !" observed she, in gra-
ciots apology, to Mr. Toplady, as her husband
left. "Yes, the empty refinements of fashion we
in particular disregard. Some particular enter-
tainments will commence directly, in which we
sincerely hope you will join. In'the mean time
you will excuse my immediate society."
At this she very cruelly but gracefully with-
drew from therm.
"I suppose it is because I've been so long un.
used to these affairs I feel a little awkward,"
whispered Mr. Toplady, after they had been seat-
ed for a moment near the wall. 1"Don't you ex-
perience a hind of unnaturalness in the flow of
your feelings at these evening parties, Moses V"
" Well-yes. I must say I do feel a kind of
stiffness now. They don't seem to be doing -much
here," replied Moses doubtfully. "lHowever, it
will wear away soon, won't it? Miss Stacy told
me she was going to be here."
"Ali! and there she is-see her-by the win-
dow, with those gentlemen amind ladies examining
the stereoscop~es," replied Mr. Toplady, somew-hat
ielieved. "Suppose I findh out fi-om her if-if the
guests are expected-to do any thing unusual to-
night. .You sit still. I'll be back presently."

MR. WINKFIELD.

10o

I t


12                                MR. WINKFIELD.
Moses did sit still. In fact, he had begun to  "Yes," replied Moses, thoroughly overcome
think it was not, perhaps, expected he should do by this novel thought.
otherwise. Near him sat two ladies in conversa-  "There is a sweet pleasure in the contempla-
tion. Presently one of them abruptly left the tion of the thought, which the gay flutterers of
other, who was dressed in black and of a serious the world do not think of. The tomb is-1
aspect.  The latter turned toward Moses and   Now time, death, the devil, and friendship are
eyedhim, and then smiled upon him. She then some of the most abstru e subjects which can be
suddenly resumed her doleful expression, and offered to the human Intellect for its activity,
then as suddenly smiled again; then she followed and there is no reason why a philosppher like
up this eccentric but pleasing affability by rising Moses, even while naturally expecting lighter
and approaching him.                        and less solemn amusement, should not be
"n Ah I excuse me," said she, "you are Mr. pleased with a short game of these lofty abstrac-
Dibbler, I believe, of the firm of-"        tions. And to a philosopher, too, whose atten-
" No, madam, my name is Winkfield, if you tion was thus directed to the second of these in-
please, of Maaychusett.,--teresting subjects, how agreeable must it have
"A  !youf are then but a stranger in this great been to meet with such a female as this, one so
city, Mt. Winkfield ?" continued she, apparently willing to keep up a perpetual illustration thereof
desirous of entertaining him,               with the attributes of her widowhood, and so able
Yes, ma'am I replied Moses courteously.  to crush any weak disposition to slink off from
"Ah 1 how much you have to see! So many the subject by the prerogatives of her woman-
delightful drives in the neighborhood.   0  hood.   We must conclude, therefore, that he
Greenwood I Have you seen that beauteous 'city was unaffectedly sincere when he abruptly inter-
of the dead,' Mr. Winkfield ?" inquired the lady, rupted the loquacious lady with the following
continuing with some enthusiasm.            bulletin of his health:
"Not ma'a Im" replied Moses surprisedly.   " 0 dear! I beg pardon, madam, but I feel
"You know not how delightful a scene it pre- really unwell. Excuse me. I feel as if I ought
sents at this season of the year. I was there to seek my uncle and-go homeh"
yesterday. Yes, the leafless trees but caused the  He saw Miss Stacy standing alone near the
winds in heavier sluggishness to resound. The stereoscopic table below.  Mr. Toplady had re-
cold atmosphere suggested the blood curdling tired therefrom  with another friend.  Moses
slowly beneath the gelid breath of death. The darted in frenzied gratitude for her presence.
frozen ground the subsequent tranquillity of the  "eeProceed at once to tbe back parlor e' whis-
corpse 1"                                   pered she mysteriously. "We must not be seen
"Good gracious! this is entirely unexpected V" together! You must-"'
thought Moses, with an abrupt start. "I cer-  6"Not seen together V" exclainied Moses, in
tainly expected something else !"           new astonishment.I
"The scene was doubly emblematic, Mr. Wink-  No, no I Some of - but hush!     Adieu!
field, and thus was the pleasure of our silent re- adieu !" said she, precipitating herself from the
flections enhanced !" continued the lady, appear- young man's presence ere lie could make a fur-
ing as though she highly enjoyed this solemn re- their inquiry
fresient.                                   "H 1a I ha!   said he, lingering confusedly,
"0 dear! yes-ahem-the visit must have "the proceedings are very singular here. There
been very pleasant to you," said Moses, shivering is something in the- certainly, for an evening
involuntarily as the vivid vision of a graveyard party, I-                    iu
collapsed in winter rose, before hirm         His attempt at recovering his equilibrium by
cleeMr. Crossboy, my husband, for whom I wear the power of philosophizing was interrupted by a
this garh, is buried there!" continued the lady, gentleman in ringlets and a clerical necloth,
with a cosy air. 11Ilis tomb, glistening in white- 111stened by a diamond pin, who, rising and wvav-
ness, is a fitting emblem of the brightness of his lag the scent from his handkerchief, bespoke the
new existence, contrasting so delightfully to our attention of the assembly. It was the celebrated
blackened life of earthly turmoil here !. Dr. Coddle, tie great evangelical sensation of the
1"1Ali [-Your husband !' said Moses, making a metropolis.    0
great effort toushow a delicate sympathy for the  " Friends, my amiable parishioner, Mrs. Fash-
bereavement.                                erlidge, has kindly commanded me, her pastor
"Yes; ten years ago be died. Yes; ten and slave, to inform you that she has a great sur-
years since hieI'sparkled, wvas exhaled, and went prise for you P" said he, looking around upon the
toacavene replied the lady serenely.     guests and smiling archly. A hushed interest
At the slight indication of the manner of his waited upon his intimation, and there was a
death which these poetic words would seem to general exchanging of significant smiles among
give, Moses's consolatory glance seemed to sug- the old ladies as in recognition of one well
gest that he would be interested to hear the same known for his affability and unbending in
more explicitly narrated, and he immediately society.
learned that the unfortunate Crossboy had been  "You are all aware, fellow-sinners and guests,"
blown up on a Mississippi steamboat to such an continued he, resuming a serious air, "that some
extraordinary height, the quotation appeared ex- two years since the efforts ot the flock were called
tremely appropriate,                        upon ineal of the Rev. Mr.Witarius,
" But if we reason aright, madam, no should dephi  oefthmsteiawouyunmn
not be much concerned after all whether our life of Dr. Flack's establisbrhomen o thatplace, who
ends to-morrow or a thousand years hence," coin- annodhismeanest resole oeote his lien
tinned lhe,                                 to th-oamdn         fteOin.H        ha be
ed"No; it is decreed we all must die," respond- there, and by governenal psuckareiption gat.d

MR. WINKFIELD.

I

personal danger, has been obliged to return to his
native land, to remainI He is present and wid
now gratify you with some remarkIs upon the place
of his sojourn, Syria. He will review the nature
of its climate, soil, and form of government, andno
doubt will relate to us many interesting personal
incidents connected with the inimical and truly
diabolical spirit manifested toward him and his
enterprise generally by the benighted native of
that region while dwelling in their midst. I have
the pleasure-that is, Mrs. Fasherlidge and my-
.self-have the pleasure of introducing to you the
Rev. Mr. Witling."
A young gentleman of pleasant staidness o
demeanor was at once led from his place of con-
cealment by the hand of the amiable hostess, and
surely enough, a lecture upon one of the most
interesting climes of the East was fairly inaugu-
rated.  Although Moses had expected another
class of entertainments, he lent a deep attention
to the matter, and felt a profound gratitude to
his worthy hostshfor the instructive one which
wvas thus offered him.
" After all," thought he, "it is perhaps well
that a part of evening erntertainments should be
rationally spent in the derivation of useful in-
formation. A short running account of foreign
adventures, with statistics left out, would fill up a
gap in a truly delightful manner."
This was at the commencement of the lecture.
After the lapse of about thirty minutes, he arose
very quietly and, seeking the hall, proceeded to
the rear drawing-room for the purpose of imme-
diately finding, his uncle. Tile door of a small
room upon the opposite side was half open, and
he looked in. Two or three guests were engaged
in low conversation therein.
"Pardon mne! I was looking for my uncle,
Mr. Toplady. The oriental gentleman making
the remarks in the other room," said he hesitat-
ing, "was dwelling at some'length upon the'
Arabs' methods of constructing their ice-houses.
As, I amn familiar with ice-houses, I thought I
would leave for a moment."'
" 01,! walk in, sir," said a solemn gentleman.
" Well, I villa. I will await here, if you please,
till the dancing is announced and then-"
"I begr your pardon, but I believe there is to
be no dancing, sir, 7said a young lady graciously.
"The practice is not known in this house, sir,"
said the solemn gentleman rather sternly. "Our
Worthy hostess has feelings in consonance with
mine, sir, and that 'of every other American
mother. I repeat in behalf of that worthy lady,
unseemly frisking and languishing with th'e legs,
though tolerated in some frivolous households
arc not known here, sir. Not a solitary frisk,
Sir."
"Ah! I must beg her pardon," replied Moses.
"I was not aware she was among those who re-
gard that amusement with disfavor.."
"With disfavor! Her eyes were first opened
to the pernicious results of dancing at an early
period, sir, when a young and thoughtless friend
of hers, in coming from a dancing party, was
thrown from her wagon andsbroke her leg. 3ihe
and others are aware too, sir, that her second
cousin was born hopelessly cross-eyed, which she
never would have been if her mother had not
first met her cross-eyed father at a hall. I for
my part can't see what there is il it. What
pleasure now would there be in waltzing round

s with me, for instance, for an half-hour ?" con
I timed the solemn gentleman very effectively, and
appealing to the young lady. "It is claimed
that it is useful and benefits some constitutions.
Now I know of a poor young girl, sir, who at-
tended dances to avoid nervous disease that she
might work and pay her rent.  She afterward
3 became aware of her error and refused to go any
f more. And what is the result ? She is now in
a comfortable hospital, and don't have to pay
any rent at all. It leads to all sorts of wicked-
less. Why, sir, take the case of Mrs. Fasher-
lidge's own French maid i she ran away with her
mistress' jewelry, and upon being detected,
- stated that she had formerly been a coryphe at
I the theatre. The pirouettes the poor girl had
been forced to make had undoubtedly turned her
head."
Moses appeared to be so much affected by
these impressive illustrations of the solemn gen-
tleman's position, that the latter seemed inclined
to relent, and said: " But there will probably be
some games here, sir."
"They are certainly a pleasant substitute,"
suggested the young lady, who had been watch-
ing Moses's countenance with some curiosity.
Do yoc not think they arc interesting, sirO"
"Delightful! It is so agreeable to renew our
childhood for a merry hour. The old games of
bu, and hunt the slipper, and thimble, and toot-
leytoo-knock-em-down i" replied Moses vivacious-
ly. " I revere them !"
"Toot-young gentleman !" exclaimed the el-
der at this in belialf our worthy hosts I protest
against this idle mentioning of tootley and other
senseless pastimes I
" What did lie mean by games then? le cer-
tainly can't mean cards !" wondered Moses. "I
beg pardon the games youkmention, are not with
-.-cards, arc they, sir ?" asked he, hesitatin.
"Young man Iexclaimed the elder, exploding
this time. "I pardon you for disrespect to me;
but I will not, Sir, this insinuation at thme expense
of the hono- and Christian decent of Mr and
Mrs. Fasherlidge and I won't 1"
" Oh! allow me to rectify his mistake," said
the young lady, hastily interrupting the shocked
and hiorror-stricken deacon, to address MosegQ.
"6These games are Such as geographical puzzles,
historical conundrums, and pleasant involutions
of biblical knowledge, you know."
" Oh! I sincerely beg the gentleman to forgive
my stupidity. No disrespect, sir," replied Moses
earnestly.
" And these instructive exercises, as they
should more properly be called," continued the
mollified gentleman, "are also judiciously calcu-
lated, sir, from thepositon in which we receive
them, to strengthen the back as well as the
memory, si"
Moses was about cautiously replying when lie
was interrupted by Mr. Toplady, who here en-
tered the room.
"Ah Moses! excuse me.   I thought I hiard
your voice," said he. "I was in tho adjoininr
library. I have been looking at the skulls."
"The skulls ?" ejaculated Moses in a lively
manner.
" A very fine collection of tao line of hmeredit-
ary chiefs of the Feejecs, sir," said the solemn
gentlemn."Theywr bouht fro          iepe
sent chief, a convert torChristianity, by the mis-


14                       MR, WINK]
sionary resident there, and sent by the latter as a fa
Christmas present to Mrs. Fasherlidge."     di
" Indeed !" exclaimed Moses.  (" Whew! what
a way of raising the wind, and what a pres- af
ent !")                                     th
"The price was remarkably reasonable, Moses at
-fifty cents a chief!" said Mr. Toplady.    re
" If I had the collection," murmured Moses, "I R
should take immediate measures to -secure that of
the present chiefhlso.. (I wouldn't mind if it came flo
in two pieces," solo voce to his uncle, "and that ar
of the missionary, too. Confound me, if I would!) tU
am going home, uncle."                     c(
"Yes, we had better go," said Mr. Toplady fii
despondently.                               al
pYou will not leave before the collation, sirs 911 n
asked the deacon, with an air of profound aston- sf
ishment. "It takes place at eleven.  Leaving a
out of the question the splendid contributions to o
the church plate, by which she has rendered her- v
self so eminent, the munificent bounty of our w
hostess is particularly evinced in her banquets, s
sir. That admirable woman has been known to t(
declare she would rather make the sacrifice of
putting her children on one meal a day, and p
stinting her husband to one suit annually, than s
fail in either !"1
" It is well known that she is a lady of great b
liberality, refinement, and taste," said Mr. Top- t
lady, feeling called upon to say something.
"'Yes, sir," continued the deacon. "All these d
may be observed in her personal attire alone. a
Dr. Coddle has paid her the compliment of hav-
ing done more to uphold the church, in the t
simple matter of dressing, than any other member. i
It vas a fortunate thing, both for him and the so- I
ciety, when she became sincere. She became so, f
sir, on listening to his powerful essay on the re-
tributive nature of future punishment, at the(
death of her uncle, who died unconfirmed in a fit t
of apoplexy.  She was principally instrumental t
in Dr. Coddle's succeeding the former divine, a
very worthy but uninteresting man, sir.  You
musvertinly stay to the banquet."  -
M oses fell into a short reflection during these
remarks. Regarding evening parties as a relaxa-
tionhe had been wondering why, with so many
of the usual appliances thereto eliminated in this
case, Mrs. Fasherlidge should be fond of giv-
incgthese affairs, and still more why they should
be so well attended. A stern reflection upon the
female weakness for social notoriety would have
answered the one, and the last words of the dea-
con'swremarks, perhaps, answered the other.
Moses, however, more benevolently concluded
that the simple, natural instinct for social inter-
course and the pleasant interchange of thought,
was a suffieilnt reason.
"wThere will be nusic aiso," suggested a second
young lady, looking pleasantly at the first. " You
will certainly be repaid for your delay."
"Ahi! that will be delightful. Now what opera
'do you like best? I, for my part," cried Moses
vivaciously, "have become enchanted with Doni-
zetti's earlier works, and-"
"Mis Wagbull, we all understand, possesses a
cervice, and eminently adaptedl to sacred
music, vice, To sacred music, sir l" said the dea-
coni, brekn out again.
con A then she will delight us. We must cer-
tainly remain. - And perhaps she will sing your

FIELD.,
vorite, uncle, the Ave M1aria of the _Cana
an-"      I-
"I think not; I think not," interrupted the.
flicted deacon. " It can hardly be expected, sir,
at she or any other sane female desires to sing,
this time and place, sir, any piece which makes
ference to the forms and mummeries of the
omish Church. That is, I should judge not!"
Mr. Toplady felt compelled to draw off the in-
amed elder from his incompatible nephew at once,
nd the latter thus had an unrestrained oppor.
unity of chatting with Miss Wagbull until the
inclusion of the Syrian lecture, which was
nished shortly afterward, much to the delight of
ll who had listened to it. We will not give the
ature of her remarks herv, but wv will *imply
ay that they were so extremely pleasant, and her
ppreciation of life therein seemed so akin to his
wn, that he wished the moments of their inter-
iew might have been prolonged. le saluted her
ith unfeigned respect as she left upon being
ummoned to assist in the proposed musical en-
ertainment.
Miss Stacy met him at the parlor door as he
resently followers Miss Wagbull.  She hastily
ought a private interview with him. Requested
um to retire again to the library, conceal himself
behind its door, and she would talk with him
through the crack.
"Through the crack ! But why this extraor-
linary precaution, Miss Stacy?  W hy any secrecy
t all in-"
"Ila! A mpst singular rumor is current hero
o-night," whispered she. "You will pardon me
f I have taken these measures to promptly-
but, hark! some one approaches! Adieu ! my dear
friend. Do not follow me. Oh! do not, I beg!."
With an alarmed look, she fled from him at
once, ere she could explain to him the nature of
the mysterious rumor, or the efficacy of the ex-
traordinary measures she was evidently taking to
suppress it.
"It appears to be something connected with
me! - he can't have discovered that am taken
for a suspicious character in disguise, or have some
infectious disease. What does she mean ? I'll
ask uncle. By Jupiter ! there he is with that.
Mrs. Crossboy. I can't go near him now."
His attention was now engaged by the nusic,
which was of a very interesting nature, beimg, in
fact, a somewhat novel mixture of the more in-
tricate choruses of sacred psalmody, and ballads
respecting the Incheape Bell, Mr. John Anderson,
the Sicur do Framboisy, and a few others similar-
y popular for their solemnity, pathos, and re-
spectability. He became particularly absorbed,
however, in the vocal effort with which Miss Wag-
bull endeavored to gratify the assemblage, and re-
pay the kind hospitality of the mansion. There
was something so sweet, in her expression,.and
so dignified in her manner, that he felt as if it
were St. Cecilia herself. What a pleasant, old-
fashioned song, and what a voice! An octoge-
narian near him, blew his nose in an extremely
sonorous manner at its pathetic humor, and
Moses himself felt a thrill of pleasure pass through
his frame at those clear, earnest notes. His in-
voluntary reverie,. and the silence of gratiticatioii
which seemed to have. hushed every one in the
room, was broken, finally, by a voice at his side.
Great heaven ! it was that of his friend, Mrs,.
Crossboy.

Is r"  vyrirLrTy'"Tl",T "

TINKFIELD.

15

MR. W
"Ah Mr. Wink !" said she; "it is so pleasa
to give sympathy instead of receiving it. I, wh
have known both, can well say we have thus a
the interesting excitement of bereavement, wit
the acute pain left out. In conversing with you
uncle, Mr. Topplehead-and an extremely aff
ble creature he is too, I am sure-I learned b
just now that you lost your maternal grandmother
a year ago, and I-"
I beg pardon, madam," replied Moses, with
frown, "I feel that she is not quite lost to me-an
none of my dear friends who have-and perm
me to ask you how you liked the ballad whic
the last young lady sung? Has she not a trul
agreeable voice ?"
Indeed she has, and what a beautiful figur
she has, and what a sweet face, too," continue
the loquacious lady.  By the way, does it no
strike you, Mr. Wink, how lovely those feature
would appear, were they-were they compose
in the sad, quiet spirit of the tomb! Regar
themMr. Wink, and apply the beautiful imagine
ative thought .'Now as these features wer
decidedly more calculated to arouse feelings con
nected with a stay upon this earth, than a de
parture from it, Moses not only did not apply th
beautiful imaginative thought, but he expressed
at once his absolute disapproval of any such pro
ceeding by an unmistakable sniff of displeasure.
Oh ! I am going home," said he. He arose,
and taking a somewhat abrupt leave of the sorry
Mrs. Crossboy, sought Miss Wagbull. While lin-
gering in her presence, quite a number of heavy
old ladies and aged gentlemen withdrew quietly
and gradually from the room, and shortly after
their exit the announcement of supper was gen-
erally made. The universal buzz of gratification,
which seemed to indicate that this was considered
the event -of the evening by most of the guests,
was succeeded by the approach to the banquet-
room. Some lively attempts at velocity were
made by the guests in this matter, and the stair-
case was temporarily crowded with persons of
both sexes, pleasantly undergoing the momentary
torture of the pressure, with the bright hope be-
fore them of being in time. One old lady, en-
deavoring to take her dinner-pills on the route,
would have been suffocated by wrongly swallow-
ing them, had she not been fortunately restored
by the shoves and blows upon her back incident
to her position. Another guest, an elderly gen-
tleman, most singularly lost his set of teeth dur.
ing the passage, but otherwise it was safely ac-
complished by the majority of the guests. As
Miss Wagbul declined to follow them, Moses ac-
companied her to her carriage, and then returned
to seek his uncle, who had evidently been carried
under pressure to the supper-room. It was with,
some difficulty that he could obtain entrance
thereto. The noise of indiscriminate conversa-
tion, and of the numerous acts of refreshment
and commands to the waiters, arose in mingled
strength.  Several gentlemen appeared to be
without hope of reaching the table. The solemn
gentleman or deacon with whom he had con-
versed in the library, in particular, excited Moses's
sympathies by the fr-antic efforts which he now
made to find a place thereat. Hie pushed about
from one part of the table to another, now futilely
attempting to reach over the heads of his luckier
anid regardless friends, and now attempting in
vain to crowd himself in between them. " Fo-

nt heaven's sake, sir," said he, with symptoms of
1o plucking his hair, and making quite a moving ap.
ill peal to Moses, "assist me. Get me a place at the
th table, for God's sake! That is-excuse me-but
ir -O   dear !-I shall not succeed if some one
a- doesn't help me."  His despair was very touch-
it ing, but Moses was forced to inform  him lie
er evidently could not bd assisted.
" There is that missionary cannibal, young
a Witling, standing next to the hostess !" cried the
d deacon in his bitterness; " and that conceited
it coxcomb, Coddle, oin the other side. 0 dear !
h she is absolutely assisting them herself, and giv-
y ing them all the choice dishes I Sir, age is not
respected nowadays. The respect due to years
e and the rights of elderly experience and respect-
d ability is thrown away and basely trampled upon,
t sir!"
S    "Calm yourself, sir," replied Moses. "It was
d perhaps, by some over sight that you have been so
d unfortunately neglected.
-   "Oversight! no, sir. It was a deliberate in-
e sult, sir; a calm, cool, deliberate insult upon the
- part of Mr. and Mrs. Fasherlidge. But I will
- thwart it, I will, by heaven !" concluded he, mak-
e ing a convulsive grab at a waiter who was push-
1 ing by. Here an opening was made in the crowd
-at the table, by a gentleman retiring with a plate
in his hand, who proposed seeking. a secret cor-
ner to lubricate his repast from a private pocket-
flask which lie ingeniously practiced carrying to
temperance festivities. The deacon disappeared
in the chasm. Moses now descried his uncle upon
the other side of the room, wedged in by the
side of Mrs. Crossboy, to whose vivacious anec-
dotes the unhappy gentleman appeared to be
listening with a mingled expression of ferocity
and despair upon his countenance. His friend
Miss Stacy, too, he observed in another corner
alone, unhelped, and helpless. In his courteous
benevolence he at once started to assist her in
her lonely distress, when a slight occurrence took
place, which rendered his retirement perhaps un-
avoidable. The unfortunate deacon had not suc-
ceeded after all in reaching the table, and in his
frenzy had attempted the forcible expulsion of
one of the guests therefrom. A gentle alterca-
tion took place between the forgetful contestants,
and in the momentary consternation of the as-
sembly, Moses received a cup of chocolate in his
bosom, and concluding his efforts in behalf of
his fair friend Miss Stacy would be unavailing lie
left the room. He was shortly joined by his uncle.
"I am glad you are here," said that gen-
tlemai, in nervous agitation. "By heaven   -
escaped from her-that old woman with her talk
about death and scythes ! Let us go, Moses, or
she will be on us again. Let us go at once."
"Certainly," replied Moses.
"But you-you have enjoyed yourself to-night
haven't you, Moses ?" asked Mr. Toplady hesitat-
ingly, when they were seated in the carriage.
"Oh ! yes," replied Moses, remembering Miss
Wagbull. "It has been pleasant to ine. Indeed
very pleasant."
"Well, leaving out the old woman with the
scythe, and the lengthiness of the lecture, the
occupation of the host and hostess' time, our un-
acquaintance with most of the guests, this dread-.
lul crowd at supper, and our desire to be a little
more lively, ehi? perhaps it was," said Mr. Toplady
retrospectively. " Eh, Moses, perhaps it was ?"

I


16                               MR. WINKFIELD.
" Oh! yes; by the way, uncle, have you heard  And tripped up the astonished Moses was upon
any remark or rumor during the evening in which the spot, and not only that, but in spite of a su-
my name was in some way connected with some- perhuman effort to dispossess himself of his antag-
h other"                           onists, dragged into the parlor, rolled up in a fire-
tWith Miss Stacy; oh! yes. I heard in one rug and bound therein hand and foot in less than
quarter that you were madly in love with her, two minutes.
and in another that you threatened to shoot any  "Police! " exclaimed the alarmed Moses, as he
other person who dared to pay attention to her." felt it impossible to move in the rug.
"And will you inform me, uncle," continued  "The very idea ! He's tied tight, isn't he ? Run,
Moses, starting, "how the deuce such a ridiculous John, and fetch a policeman at once ! Let Bridget
statement originated, and from whom?" come up and assist me to watch him!" said the
" Oh ! pshaw ! some malignant old gossip trying master of the house, seizing a fire-shovel and
to make the evening lively, perhaps. Miss Stacy mounting guard over the prostrate Moses.
denied it indignantly " replied Mr. Toplady slowly.  "What-what do you mean by this infamous
treatment of an utter stranger to you, sir ?" gasp-
ed Moses indignantly, making an unsuccessful en-
deavor to raise himself to a sitting posture.
CHAPTER V.                      "Oh ! you had better keep quiet ! I'll have to
ONE OF THE DIVERSIONS OF NEW-YORK OLD GEN- turn this sofa over you, if you don't !" cried the
TLEMEN.                    other placidly.
Tlere there appeared a commotion in the house.
AT a proper time after the- party at which he An elderly lady and two young ones ran into the
had the pleasure of becoming acquainted with room and out again timidly.
Miss Wagbull, Moses proposed to reply to her in-  " Come here, wife. But you, Jane and Joanna,
vitation to visit her at home. For the first time, stay where you are! I've got him!"
perhaps, he entertained misgivings as to the fit of  "0 dear! who is it, papa ?" exclaimed the
his coat, and eyed with feelings of concern and young ladies approaching in cautious curiosity
irritation his pantaloons. It was momentary, how- behind the old lady.
ever, and overcoming the weakness, he proceeded  "Untie my legs !" gasped Moses, vehemently
through the cheerful and bracing atmosphere to excited by the presence of the ladies. "You are
fulfill his resolve. Presenting himself at the man- stopping ,r.y circulation! I -I-This dreadful
sion, which was of the usual New-York style of posture. You are endangering my life !" roared he.
stone veneer with high stoop, he re-surveyed his  "Eh?  Your circulation ?" asked the old gen-
attire upon the latter with much care, ere he rung tleman doubtfully.
the bell  While bending to adjust a loosened  "What do you mean by all this, Edwin? Re-
shoe-string, the door was partially opened by a lease his feet and let him sit up," commanded the
gentleman. As Moses rose, the latter widened matron authoritatively.
the aperture, disclosing a male domestic behind  "Hem! Well, I will," said the gentleman.
him, and they both commenced to gaze steadily "Stand ready, Bridget. You can sit in that chair,
at our hero.                                young man, but you will not attempt to escape,
" (Her father or uncle!) I beg your pardon, hey, will you?"
is this Mr. WagbulPs house ?" asked Moses with  "I thank you, madam, for your kind interfer-
respect.                                    ence, but you, sir, once more I ask you, what do
"Sir? Wagbull-no, sir ." replied the gentle- you mean by this outrage ?" said Moses from the-
man with an emplhasis,"But step in, sir. It is chair, endeavoring to be as dignified as his envel-,
rather cold out there, Ci p?               oped condition and the appearance of a resusci-
"Excuse met but is ot-is ndt this thirty-one tated mummy would permit. He had taken a
Thirty-eighth street?" asked Moses, lingering, and rapid sut-vey.
fumbling about his pocket, as he stepped into the "Oh! you need' t attempt to intimidate me by
ante-room. aI have a card which-"           any innocent protestations. I caught you; I caught
"No, young man, it is not thirty-one Thirty- him in the very act, wife !" cried the latter, tri-
eighth street.' Let me enlighten you, young man; umphantly.
it is thirty-eight Thirty-first street," replied the  "Caught me in the act! What do you mean
gentleman in what certainly seemed a satirical by the act  said Moses, losing his temper at he-
tone, as he closed the outer door and furtively ing presented to three ladies rolled up in a carpet
looked it.                                  an nearly falling off of his chair in the excite-
"Oh! I beg pardon. I have made a mistake. ment attendant thereon. "If I could have my
Quite a natural mistake!" said Moses, smilng- hands loosened, I would personally castigate you,
and turning about to leave. "This numbering of sir  I would punch your head 1"
streets as  ell asbouses is quite confusing. "  "He was stooping down in the very act of seiz-
"Wait u moment, young man. Don't be im a ing the mat, wife, when I opened the door,"a sd
hurry to go," continued the gentleman, i a jocose the gentleman to his wife. "In the very act. Just
tone, at which Moses observed the domestic to be as I supposed, it is a regular profession, not the
grinning intensely. "Wait, will you not? Oh ! work of beggars or children, het-
do, now 1"                                  ably disguised for the purpose."
do,-o  t       ,             M   s bi       "    at !" roared Moses in astonishment.
fln t-o than somewhatsrpied tses egtlm- "My dear sir, keep quiet, keep perfectly cool.
nnte  mwa     upie a h      etea' I know you-Ilhave been watching for you--twen-
"O!you will not, eh ? Y ou will not ? Well, I ty-cight matdo hav s'eenh tke farsmhraemonth-
rather think you will," continued the latter, lay- somestgtan dolaven, worhalnltheast thrpleasurehof
up, John !" exclame he quly to  T e etic  putting a stop to your rascally proceedings."

MR. WINKFIELD.                     17

"iDo 'you suspeet me," cried Moses, "of being
a purloiner of-"
Your game of mistaking numbers was ver
pretty, but it won't do, it won't do," continue
the old gentleman.' " My blood is up, by heaven
and I will have the twenty - eight mats bac
again, and additional vengeance for the hours of
patient watching for you which it has cost me !"
" But-my dear sir, won't you listen to me?
exclaimed Moses, in utter astonishment and dis
gust.
"No, sir, I will not, at least until the police
man arrives. Prepare for at least five years it
the penitentiary. If you are so fond of the mats
I'll see they put you to making them in the insti
tuition, ha!ha!"
"Take this hideous envelope from me. Re-
lease me from this indignity. Release me, or-
send your family out of the room," continued
Moses nervously, as lie caught sight of the young
ladies, irrepressibly tittering at the singular ap-
pearance he presented.
"No, sir, I shall not endanger the peace and
mats of society by any such proceeding, I assure
you !
"But listen to me a moment," begged Moses.
"I can easily explain how-if you will release
me; I have papers upon my person to show
you-"
"Be quiet, sir. Be quiet until the police arrive
and you will have an opportunity !" said the o14
gentleman, cotinuin- his satirical air of benev,
olence.o
Moses endeavored to compose himself to si-
lence, but in vain.
"Under these circumstances, in placing an
estimate upon your character, I am called upon
to read you," exclaimed he, with renewed em-
piis"to regard you as a contemptible fellow
and unreasonable muff, unreasonable muff, sir."
thEh, sir, what is that you said?  What is
that, Sir ?" asked the old gentleman, jumping in-
stinctively to the rear of the cook, as he ob-
served Moses's threatening aspect.
I say, si-, that I consider you simply as a
muff; and were I possessed of the use of my
limbs, sir, I should he compelled to inflict per-
sonal chastisement upon you, sir, in this very
apartment. I would, I assure you !" -
0 dear !" cried the ladies, pulling back their
relative in bodily fear, and Cyeing Moses with
terror.
"Ibeg your pardon, ladies," cried the latter,
with immediate regret, " that I have so far for,
gotten your presence and your connection with
this gentleman, as to have uttered words disre-
speetfnl of either. I will now await the arrival
of the authorities."
After an half-hour's lapse, during which Moses,
in dignified silence and with averted gaze, en-
deavored to dissipate his sense of injured self-
respect, by reverting to the happy scenes of his
childhood, the policeman came, and the mistake
of the old gentleman was shown beyond doubt
by the proofs of respectability which Moses had
upon his person.  The policeman was sent away
by the old gentleman, and the latter, after
staring t Moses confusedly for some moments,
" My God ! sir, this is a dreadful affisir," said
he. "I apologize. I didn't like to do it out
there. Stay and spend the evening. I have

g Burgundy aid Mumm in my cellar. I just had
up a second bottle, and am glad you come. We'll
y make a night of it. You and I will watch together
d for the thieves, and-"
,   " Oh ! no; no, sir. I beg of you, excuse me,"
k replied Moses hastily.
"Eh?   Perhaps you still feel a little aggrieved
and want further reparation," said the pater
familias dubiously. "It's natural, and if you
say so, I'll have John stand at the front-door as
you go out, and you can kick him down-stairs."
-Moses felt himself forced to decline this hand-
some offer.
" Then you will call again ?" said the old gen-
- tleman, following Moses out into the parlor. "My
wife and daughters will be happy to see you
again !"
"Oh! do, sir !" chimed in the young ladies, en-
deavoring to look tenderly at Moses, though they
suddenly tittered again, in spite of their wishes.
- Moses started nervously, and with a profit-
sion of hasty thanks bowed himself immediately
into the street. There he observed the policeman
sustaining himself by the front railings and labor-
ing very heavily in laughter.  Moses rushed by
him and proceeded rapidly to his hotel. He re-
tired at once to his room, and spent the remainder
of the evening in committing the event in cipher
to his diary, and in reading Rasselas in bed.
CHAPTER VI.
AN ENTIRELY UNEXPEcTED EVENT IN TOPLADY's
LIFE, WITH AN EQUALLY UNEXPECTED TERMINA-
TION.
TnE slight incident related in the previous
chapter was, after all, so really amusing, so in-
structive of the curious predicaments in which
the most respectable of human beings may be
placed by the stupidity of New-Yorkers, that
Moses confided it to his uncle.
Very amusing, indeed ; but does it not seem,
Moses, responded the latter with asslight frown,
"somewhat singular that in the short space of
time you have been here, you should have been
already twice in difficulty-in fact, in contact with
the police !"
"But, my dear uncle," replied Moses warmly,
"I am sure in both cases it was totally unappre-
hended by me, and-"
" Yes, very true. But what I would particu-
larly refer to, Moses, is a certain want of circum-
spection in placing yourself within reach of such
events," continued Mr. Toplady, with an air of
partial sternness. "Look at me; have I ever
been subject to suspicion or-"
The abrupt entrance of two strangers inter-
rupted his well-meant lecture.
"This here is Mr. E. Toplady's apartment,
an't it ?" inquired one.
"Yes, sir, it is ?" replied the uncle severely.
"Oh ! I suppose he is out, an't he ?" suggested
the intruder with a trivial air.
"No sir, le isnot. I mthat person and-"
You can go peacefully with mc, No. 048, patrol
man, to the station, or I can shove you !"


18                       MR. WINKFIELD.

'What! Good heavenI This is a-mistake!
There is some-'? -
" Certainly, there always is, isn't there, 390 ?"
said the officer dryly to the other. "But be kind
enough to get your hat. You may take, if you
want to, a clean shirt and two pairs of socks in
your pocket."
" But what do you mean? ,What is it for 9"
exclaimed the astonished Mr. Toplady..
"Oblige me by sayin' nothin' more. My du-
ties is simply to arrest you," replied the police-
man. "I han't any orders to tell you any thing."-
"Show your warrant! show your warrant I"
cried Moses, overwhelmed with surprise and con-
cern. " Until you do that, my friend will not
leave this apartment, if I can help it, by heaven !"
"Young man, I jest advise you not to meddle
in this here.  You'd better not attempt any
rescue." And with these words the officer rubbed
his nose with his club in dry humor, and its sig-
nificance appeared also to divert his companion
very much.I
" What is it? Confound it, there is some mis-
take here, men! I don't remember.any thing I've
done lately !" again exclaimed Mr. Toplady, who
in the momentary confusion was unable to remem-
her any of his own, or any one else's acts, for
that matter.
"This is surprising," cried Moses. "Police-
men, you are at least bound to inform him of the
cause of this outrage, for such it assuredly is V"
"Look here,-I can't wait here no longer," ex-
claimed the officer. "You can hear all about it
of the inspector. I don't know nothing about
charges any how."
"Well, then, we had better wait until we reach
the station-house," said the prisoner hurriedly.
" It's probably a gross mistake, which will be
cleared up there instantly !"
" What ! will you coolly submit to these fel-
lows ?" renewed Moses, looking pugnaciously at
the officers. And he, no doubt, would have con-
tinued his reckless opposition to the guardians
a'nd been presently knocked down by them, had he
not ascertained from his uncle that the police were
duly authorized by general warrant to proceed in
this manner.
"Well, then, if- you go I will go with yop,
uncle. I'll accompany you and stay there with
you," said the affectionate nephew. "In the tn-
pleasantness and gloom'of the dungeon I can,
perhaps, soothe the distressed-"
Mr. Toplady had been gazing for a moment at
the officer. He possessed a great knowledge of the
ways of human nature-male, at least-and he
seemed struck with an idea, for a light passed
over his face.
" Eh ?  No.  I think you had better not
Moses," said he. "I had better go alone, hadn'
I, officer?"
"I've got a cab out here. It won't hold bu
two. 390, Jim, can show t'other gentleman th
way to the station-house, if he wants to go,'
replied the officer, becoming quite affable.
Moses concluded to agree to the arrangement
Ilis unfortunate uncle was conveyed quietly t
the cab, and he himself at once tore along with th
auxiliary officer in eager haste to the polic
office.         . .
To his great astonishment, and certainly to hi
profound gratification at its cause, upon reachmn
that place he discovered considerable excitemen

The officer' who had taken  charge of hils uncle
had already arrivedbut the latter had notu!
In their disappointment the authorities sternly
held Moses in the suspicious light of a -conniver
at the escape. All knowledge of the official
charges brought against his uncle, and of the case
in general, was thus unfortunately ordered to be
refused him by the entire force. He was allowed
to leave the premises, as the officers who had
been detailed to make the arrest freed him from
any blame in the matter, as far as their know-
ledge was concerned. And he was thus left to
find out as best he could what the occurrence had
been which had given rise to these disagreeable
proceedings against his relative, and also to what
obscure retreat that relative had fled under these
unpleasant circumstances.
CIIAPTER VII.
MISS STACY INCREASES HER INTEREST IN oUR-HERO.
MosEs endeavored in vain to allay his natural
concern respecting the whereabouts of his uncle
and the probably doubtful condition of spirits
under the oppressive circumstances in which
the latter was placed. For a day or two, all
his cautious efforts appeared fruitless, and his
own spirits were beginning to be exceedingly
depressed by the forced secrecy imposed up-
on him in the matter, when he received a
note evidently written by the absconding party
himself, in which he was partially -relieved
from his anxiety, and from further prosecution
of his search, by a statement therein of his re-
lative's satisfaction at the immediate situation,
and by a desire that he should not attempt
to jeopardize the same by any present efforts
at discovery.  In the mean tine the society
of his several new-made acquaintances in a
measure dispelled our hero's disappointment at
his uncle's necessary absence.
Miss Stacy in particular appearedmore assid-
uous than ever in her affability, and she took this
opportunity of expressing her warm interest in
his designs. lIe made a morning call at her parlor
in obedience to her summons.  Sh was charm-
ingly attired in a short dress of white camnbric
vith pantalettes, slippers, and blue ribbons cross-
Ing openwork stockings, and her arms were
partially covered with mits. The gallant Moses
was a little surprised at first by this picturesque
costume, but soon learned that she was about
1 making her customary visit to a portrait painter's
'studio 0who had been intermittingly engaged for
the last five or six years in taking her as Inno-
t eence.
" Ach Mr. Winkfield!" said she impulsively, as
t -our hero commenced to taper off in his compli-
e ments at her charming personation,   You are
so noble, so generous, that one formed with a
heart constitutionally impulsive as mine, can not
refrain from a wish to assist you in all your re-
o solves, and I would particularly proffer now to
e guide you, to cherish your interests, and ever to-"
e    "Mv   dear Miss Stacy," interrupted Moses,
hardly find words to express my wish to return
g this instance of your friendship.'**    f l
t. "Ah ! ever true to the nobler instincts of tile

heart.- You feel, do you not," continued she in
tender inquiry, "that you would hereafter scarcely
hazard plunging alone into the turbid sea of the
life about us ?"
"Certainly, oh! no. That is, oh! yes, I mean.
I feel in a measure the danger which you speak
of," replied Moses.
"As you were! Quick, quick !" exclaimed
she suddenly. "Look at that fly upon the wall
once more."
"At the fly?" repeated Moses, in surprise.
"Yes, yes, I would catch again that noble pen-
sive expression, which for a moment was then
arrested upon your countenance. Ai! yes, the
life and loves f that innocent being, cheerily
playing in blissful unconsciousness in the sunshine
the livelong day, I know suggest deep emotional
thought. Soon rudely torni fiom the dear partner
of his daily joy, by the dastard spider, great
griefs will assail him. With a yell of despair, he
dies. Ah! thus it is with human life. But to
proceed," continued the fair lady, and she here-
upon placed herself upon an ottoman near Moses's
feet in a most girlish attitude with a sampler, at
which graceful posturing Moses was affected to
making a compliment.
"Naughty, naugity man!" continued the fair
being naively pouting, and presently she playfully
ran her needle into his leg. lie concealed the
short utterance of personal anguish which he
would like to have made at this, and she continued.
" But to proceed-in the turbid sea of life, dear
friend, you would feel, would you not, the need
of woman's aid to sustain you, to buoy you up
as you buffet the waves ?"
"Above all things, I should be happy to
secure that," exclaimed Moses courteously, al-
thoughl he did not exactly see how woman's aid
was usually necessary in natatory experiments.
"At the party the other evening, as you are
aware, I promptly suppressed allusions to certain
relations existing between us. Bmut here between
us alone, I now feel that I may confidingly
promise you my fiendship," continued his fair
friend, picking coyly at her sampler.  " And
when your plans are more definitely formed, you
will let mie know them, first of all?"
" Oh! yes; ipost heartily. I am proud of the
opportunity," replied our hero gallantly kissing
her mit as he rose to leave.
"Oh1 adieu !" said she, tripping gracefully
toward an inner roon as lie left the door.
" Adieu, mon amni!"  And she archly wafted a
kiss toward him upon her taper fore-fimger.
"What a kind woman! and charming, I am
sure," thought Moses, as he walked down the hall
from her parlor. " What warm friendship!"
How in vain did he further speculate upon the
means of repaying that warm friendship, when
lie found her maid at his door that afternoon!
"I beg pardon, Mr.-Winkfield, but Miss Stacy's
compliments, and she wishes to know if I can be
of any service to you in mending your clothes,
sir, and examining your linen when it's returned
from the wash,"
" Eh? God bless me! I will not trouble you,
my dear; oh ! no, there is no necessity."
"But Miss Stacy wishes ue," said the smiling
maid.
"0O dear ! but tell your mistress, Annie, that I am
ceeedingly indebted to 11cr for 11cr kindness, and
indeed I am to you too, Annie. There !" re-

L sponded Mose6, placing something in her hand.
"You are a good girl; not now, but when I feel
the need I will certainly  avail myself of your
needle P'
CHAPTER     VIII.
MR. WINm1i-ELD ATTENDS AN INTERESTING MEETING
OF AN EMINENT CONSERVATIVE SOCIETY
Two or three days after his uncle's departure
Moses was finishing in the hotel reading-roonte
advertisements of the last journal of themmom-mmig
and casually looking out upon the mu ggyatn ios
phere and slippery pavements to regard them as
an actual preventive against rash adventure in
the streets, when he happened to observe a Inotico
of the meeting of a society entitled "TThe Nation-
al Society of Political Instruction." Struck by
the name, he was about making inquiries of the
attendant who was noiselessly arranging the
newspapers upon the table, when a gentlemnan
near by gave him  the desired information, and
added that he was himself a member of the asso-
ciation.
" We have our semni-annual to-day, sir, and
some extremely important    measures will be
brought ip for decision. I suppose that the so-
ciety is now in session, sir."
Moses intimated that if it was of a public na-
ture lie would like extremely to attend it, and tlim
gentleman  in reply immediately proffered his
services as chaperon.  Moses knew that this gen-
tiemnan was somewhat noted in public circles, md
was frequently called upon to iead subscription
committees for charity balls or for benefits to
decayed tragedians; and upon the way, the Hon.
Luke Noblock, for that was his nami, gave our
hero much useful public information.
"-Our society is strictly conservative, sir," said
11e to oumr hero in explaining the objects of the
association in question.
" Al ! yes.  In medio res tulisslonus)" replied
Moses, applauding the position.
" We hold the true meaning of the word con-
servative, sir," continued the gentleman, " to be
to earefumlly avoid exercising any influence u on
any body or any thimg "
" But, dear me ! I should hardly think the form-
ation of a society necessary to acconmplish tlhat
purpose," replied the somewhat surprised Moses.
"I mean ini- our owi affairs-in affairs with
which we have any natural relation, or which in
any way can possibly affect us, internally, domes-
tically, or nationally.
" But in what way, then, does the society mani-
fest its usefulness ?" asked Moses curiously.
By its formal sanctions of general govern-
mental and ethical principles, and by its sugges-
tions of improvement to foreign nations ! In this
way we occupy ourselves, doing much good with-
out doing any mischief. In this way have we ac-
quired our fame, and we are widely known, sir,
both individually'and collectively !"
" Ai! I see," said Moses, apparently relieved.
You must be."
" The .radicals call us idiotic," continued Mr.
Noblock, "aand the society is frequently charac-
terized by the public as imlbecile; bumt we well
kmnow such terms arec but tme mecre results of envy
or ignlorance of our glorious position of comnserva-
tisnm !"

MR. WINKFIELD.                    19

i


20                        MR. WINKFIELD.

And as an instance of. this"conservatism,
which appeared rather elastic, he stated that, in
the case of the local politics of the city, in-
stead of foolishly attempting the impossible task
of eradicating the system of wire-working, how-
ever objectionable it was, it quietly entered into
the various cliques and vigorously intrigued itself.
" At the last election, I was appointed, to-
gether with three other members, by the society,
to secure the nomination as controller for Pro-
fessor Quanler, our greatest abstractionist in po-
litical economy and successful refuter of Malthus,
both theoretically and practically.  I mention
this, and the fact of our obtaining admission to
the municipal convention with the expenditure
by the society of fifteen hundred dollars, bor-
rowed from Professor Quattler's aunt, to show
you its real energy.".
"And your candidate succeeded in obtaining
the desired nomination ?" inquired Moses.
" Well-no,"replied the other slowly. "Though
the day before the ballot we obtained the pro-
mises of more than two thirds of the whole con-
vention, and on an informal vote obtained a fine
majority, for some reason or other, when the for-
mal vote was taken, our candidate didn't obtain
but four votes-not another one beside our own!
There was something wrong somewhere !"
Moses agreed that it was really mysterious.
They had now reached the place of meeting of the
society, the Apollo Hall, a large apartment over
a stable and carriage repository in Mercer street.
A sample of the usual noise attendant upon de-
liberative assemblies was issuing from the hall,
at one end of'which was a deep stage, occupied
in the rear by a pile &amp;f neglected music-stands,
the rest being devoted to the officers of the meet-
ing. As there were of these, beside the presi-
dent, a large number of vice-presidents and se-
cretaries, it was well filled, especially as its occu-
pants were temporarily enlarged somewhat be-
yond their natural dimensions by the importance
of their position. The members who were not
officers were trying to look important also, by
earnestly listening to a gentleman with gold spec.
tacles who had the floor, and of whose remarks
many of them were taking notes.
Ah ! that is Professor Quattler himself !"
whispered Mr. Noblock, as they took a seat in
the body of the house. "I see he is remarking
upon the causes of war again, and has just al-
luded to the celebrated treatise of Van Botheid
on the Perturbations of the Planets in connection
therewith. He translated the original two hun-
dred and fifty pages himself, and he added thir-
teen hundred pages more of valuable editorial
notes. The edition is regarded, sir, as one of
the most extraordinary contributions to science
of this age."
Moses did not express any opinion on this, as
he had never before heard of it Nor did he
know that such was the profound erudition there-
in displayed, it was believed only one man had
ever successfully mastered it, to whom a singular
experience occurred.  The, original "perturba-
tions" got into this persevering fellow's brains,
and the doctors gave him -up as incurabIe But
as he proceeded wildly to read the notes, he re-
covered, His brain being partly turned by the
text, the notes had the effect of turning them en-
tirely round to their original position.
.Professor Quattler's remarks were presently In-

terrupted by the pell-mell'return of committee
of the society from their committee-room to re-
port progress. The chairman thereof stated that
"the committee for universal peace and settle-
ment of disputes by arbitration" had sat long upon
the subject of the resolutions referred to them,
and had hoped to shape their ends (sensation) to
meet the approval of the society, but they were
totally unable to agree upon what the proposed
Address to all Nations should be, and asked to
be discharged.  At the prompt suggestion of
Professor Quattler, the society would not listen
to the unhappy committee's wishes, and peremp-
torily ordered them to return to their committee-
room. The professor then resumed, the thread
of his remarks, and proceeded for an hour or
so in a discourse which became so impressive
that before he had half finished the president
shut his eyes to meditate thereon, and nods of
approval might be seen all over the house. le
would probably have proceeded for an hour lon-
ger, had he not been again interrupted by the
peace committee. Such a noise emanated from
its room that three quarters of the society awoke
and sought the passage-way, in curiosity to as-
certain the cause. The committee conscious of
its inability to come to any agreement, had very
incongruously resorted to physical force to set-
tle the question of the Peace Address under its
consideration, and one old gentleman had been
knocked into such an extremely insensible con-
dition as to lead to the belief in the minds of
many that a slung shot was used during the me-
ee. Order was presently restored, both in the
committee-room and the hall, by the final dis-
charge of the unhappy committee, and as Pro-
fessor Quattiler's planetary ideas had been irre-
vokably driven from his head by the interrup-
tions, the president ordered the treasurer of the
society to read his-report.  Thereupon Profes-
sor Quattler rose again and expressed his will-
ingness to relieve the treasurer from the trouble
by reading it himself.  The society having re-
ceived by the report the agreeable intelligence
that they were heavily in debt, then-..proceeded
to the appointment of several more committees
on various subjects, upon all of which Professor
Quattler expressed a desire to serve. In fact, in
his incorrigible desire to play all the parts, he
strongly resembled the illustrious Nick Bottom.
These committees occupying most of the time
till noon, a recess in the proceedings was taken,
and although the announcement by the presi-
dent that there would be no refection as usual,
appeared to cause a momentary rage and disap-
p4ontment in the hearts of many members pres-
ent, they endeavored to make the recess as lively
as they could with the spiritual refreshment of
unofficial conversation. In this way Moses was
enabled to hear many pleasing facts and anec-
dotes connected with the objects and influence
of the society.
" Ha ! ha! Professor, you saw that last thing of
Palmerston's," said a lean gentleman to Profes-
sor Quattler, "That was meant as a dab at us ,
Pretty good! wasn't it -"
"Yes, yes," said the professor, much amused.
" By the way, I have heard also that the Queen
isafi-aid that the society will take it seriously, and
has remonstrated with the premier against a repe-
tition of bon mots on us. ,I see Greenlog is not
here to-day. I didn't exactly like his argument

in his closing prayer at the last meeting about in
ternational comity," continued he after a pause.
" The doctor is apt to be crude in his opinion
and loose in his statements."
" It was a fine prayer, though ; one of the finest
prayers ever offered to the society, I think,'
said the other warmly.,
- "You have seen his new work on inythology,
professor?  Ought we to do any thing about his
secretly worshiping Jupiter?9" continued the lean
gentleman. "They say that some of his students
have caught him a half-dozen times going through
with the regular ceremonials in the Greek room
of the college, and it has got to be a regular thing.
It is rather radical, isn't it?"
" No, sir. It is a splendid example of conserv-
atism. It is certainly an older religion than the
Christian, and I think we had better do nothing.
If it is necessary, however, I will attend to it."
. " Certainly, certainly; I suggested it to you for
that purpose," said the other submissively.
"Gentlemen," said another person, who had
just joined the two, "gentlemen, I want your
advice, What do you think of the propriety of
a secret resolution deprecating the evident in-
tentions of Austria toward Italy, to be privately
-passed by the society and quietly handed to Na-
poleon by Dayton after dinner ?"
"A  good thing, Mr. Small," said Professor
Quattler. "I have already been thinking of that
thing myself."
"You have ?" said Mr. Small.
"Yes, I shall introduce the resolution this af-
ternoon: whether viewed as an encouragement to
Napoleon or a warning to Austria, its effect must
be propitiously felt."
" Ha ! ha !" said the unfortunate initiator of the
proposed movement in hysterical fury, walking
away.
" By the way, Mason, you have not heard of
that rich particular of Francis Joseph's cabinet
consultation on Napoleon's letter to him,"contin-
ued the professor.  "It is known only to a few.
I got it directly from Motley,-who was in Vienna
at the time. He's a hot-tempered little fellow-
his flinging bis crown at Esterhazy showed that-
but at bottom full of fine instincts. You know
Connt Krug, his minister of finance, is extremely
fat; and upon his stating to his master that he
couldn't raise a kreutzer from his subjects except
by forced loan, was knocked from his chair by his
Majesty, who also attempted, and actually succeed-
ed, in rolling him upon.a large fire burning in the
state apartment. The thing washushed up. The
papers merely mentioned it as a heated dispute
which had occurred in the cabinet; but it leaked
out from the resulting indisposition of the minister
and the extraordinary smell of camphor for a
week or two thereafter, hanging about his palace!
Ha! ba!"
Our hero had been left alone by Mr. Noblock
for a few moments, the latter having retired to a
secret place for the purpose of coining a few re-
marks he intended to offer the society after the
recess. At all these, conversations and others
which he overheard, Moses's interest increased in
the affairs of the society, and he awaited with
some impatience the renewal of the session. When
it was resumed, the first matter under considera-
tion was a suggestion of a plan to he issued to dis-
tressed countries for paying their debts, which,
considering that it was to come from a society

whose treasurer had just reported themii heavily
in debt themselves, Moses was forced to look upon
s as one of those eminent practical jokes with which
humane members of such bodies now and then
t take occasion to relieve the profound labors
thereof. The plan, however, was unanimously
adopted, and the president then called the atten-
tion of the society episodically to a communica-
tion which he had received from a benevolent as-
sociation, sn association which he thought it
unnecessary to designate, requesting that a col-
lection should be taken up in the meeting on be-
half of its charitable fund; that he would noteven
present this communication to the society, as the
proceedings desired would undoubtedly be a gross
violation of parliamentary propriety, the society
being strictly political. This announcement was
received with a whirlwind of applause, and after
it had died away, Mr. Noblock seized the oppor-
tunity to address the chair. From the shortness
of his preparation, however, he rambled so in his
exordium that he shortly sat down in some con-
fusion, no one apparently taking any notice of
him from beginning to end, except our hero and
a young man near him, who both applauded with
much benevolent violence whenever he was stuck
in the heaviness of the road lie was endeavoring
to journey upon. Professor Quattler having by
this time- vamped up the recent thunder, stolen
from Small, now offered it. But that defrauded
gentleman had not been idle. At his instigation
the corresponding secretary immediately rose and
read 'a letter to the society in his possession from
France, which stated that a society exactly simi-
lar to theirs in its objects and composition, estab-
lished in that country, had lately been broken up
by order of the Emperor, the officers exiled and
their property confiscated to the government.
Taking a common-sense view of this news in
connection with the resolution to be dispatched
to the Emperor, it seemed rather to render the
latter a work of supererogation, and Small at once
stated that such was his opinion.  Enraged at
this, Professor Quattler launched forth into an
account of the obscure life of his antagonist's
father, and intimated the depravity of his previous
ancestors. The debate immediately assumed, in
consequence, the character which is usually.lesig-
nated by the reporters as "one of great strength
and vigor of repartee." The aged president
sniffed at Mr. Small and ordered hin to take his
seat, and though the latter radically announced
his intention of doing no such thing, he was con-
servatively pushed off his balance amid under it by
the parliamentary effort of an adjacent member
to second the efforts of the president. Thereupon
the resolute Small, extricating himself, created
great sensation by attempting to defy both Pro-
fessor Quattler and his adherent, and by openly
characterizing the former as' a "Machiavellian
cogger and villain !"
"Send for a dictionary !" said Professor Quat-
tIer, with much vehemence. "Do you apply those
terms to me radically or conservatively, sir ?"
" Radically, sir. I regard you radically and
unmitigatedly as a cogger and villain !" repeated
the excited Small.
" Very well, then, I am satisfied !" replied Pro-
fessor Quattler, turning over the dictionary, which
a secretary handed to him. "I find, Mr. Presi-
dent, the primary and radical meaning of the
word cogger to be one who makes cog-wheels, and

MR. WINKFIELD.


22                       MR. WINKFIELD.

the word villain was originally applied, sir, to a
poor but very respectable class of Englishmen.
I am, therefore, perfectly satisfied with the epithets,
and under these circumstances I am willing that
any question of the gentleman's expulsion from
the society turning upon his acknowledgment of
radicalism in the matter shall be entirely waived,"
continued he with great magnanimity.
A round of applause followed this lofty exam-
ple of forgiveness, by which the astounded Small
was undoubtedly saved from being promptly ex-
pelled from the association. As that confused gen-
tleman stared at his antagonist, the consideration
of the resolution was resumed with renewed inter-
est, and its passage was even imminent, when
fate and justice interfered again by a new and
most unexpected interruption of the proceedings.
The outer doors of the hall were suddenly thrown
open and a large body of strangers, entering with
resistless violence, filled up the vacant seats and
the aisles. They were headed by a female of middle
age, carrying a blue umbrella, with which, as a
victorious oriflamme, she waved on those who
followed her. It was ascertained to be a body of
radical abolitionists from Cheever's church, re-
solved into a committee of the whole to assist in
the peace movement of the National Society; for
the feminine leader immediately informed the
venerable president of this sympathetic object,
and to show it, proceeded at once to pour forth in a
vigorous and defiant manner a torrent of philippic
eloquence'against him and the society generally
for its laxity and imbecile conservatism.
The faculties of the aged officer were for a time
entirely absorbed by this unexpected onslaught,
Aroused at last by the increased vigor of her vitu-
peration, he endeavored to recover his parliament-
ary comprehension.
"You are a female and entirely out of order,
ma'am !" exclaimed he, aghast.
"I move she be put in order then," cried a
humane voice. "I move she be permitted to
address the society."
'The president rose to expostulate, which was
an unfortunate action, for he was immediately
regarded as having put the question, and he had
scarcely said three words, when he was greeted
with an overwhelming shout Of "Ay !"
" And I move that brother Gardensarse, brother
Lommeydew and sisters Alltork, Doolittle, and
Quock, be added to the number of vice-presidents
of the society !" roared the owner of the voice,
evidently tickled with his success.
At another tremendous shout of " Ay," two
colored gentlemen and three females stepped upon
the platform, and took their seats in the midst of
the astounded vice-presidents.
The aged president was fast giving way. Pro-
fessor Quattler pushed toward him. With a gasp
the aged president called Professor Quattler to
the chair, and tottering to the music-stands, sank
from view among them.
" This will not do ! This will not do, gentle-
men !" cried the new chairman vigorously. "It
ia not parliamentary. You are not qualified as
members, and I declare you out of order !"
" But we are !" "I am a member 1" "I am a cor-
responding member!" "I aman honorary!" "I
subscribed money to the organization, and brother
Bollick, there, is a member also, art thee not?"
were a few of the cries which resounded through
the entire body of the house at this ruling of tle

professor, and a number of Quakerly-dressed
gentlemen, and others in the ordinary garb of
civilized beings, arose to view.I
Influenced by this illusive 'appearance of right
the temporary chairnian, from the confusion of
his unusual position, very unwisely referred the,
question of eligibility to the society, and another
overwhelming shout in the affirmative put him in
the very uncomfortable predicament of being
obliged to declare the whofe proceedings to be in
order.
" Brother Garrison, you have prepared the re-
solution ? Let me have it here," said the female
orator, energetically, to a benevolent-looking ir-
rupter beside her. The latter handed her a paper,
from which, above the increasing confusion, she
read, for the society's deliberation, the following
brief but pointed resolution:  ,
" Resolved, That this society is -in favor of,
and will henceforth lend its aid to the immediate
emancipation of the slaves; the abolition of
flogging in the navy; of rum-shops, and of that
dastardly tool of an infamous oligarchy, the
United States Supreme Court !"
The last lingering remnant of the conservative
Professor Quattler's presence of mind was rapidly
disappearing with the increasing noise of the
antagonistic elements of the assemblage. . He
had just enough left to attempt the ingenious
maneuver of declaring the society duly adjourned.
In his failure, he jumped wildly into the body of
the house, and his place was immediately taken
by one of the new vice-presidents. The resolu-
tion was triumphantly passed, and an indescrib-
able confusion now ensued, both on the stage
among the vice-presidents as well as among the
members. The rage and disappointment of the
original members increased.  Amid repeated
noise of hustling and pushing, and cries of "Mem-
bers of the society will come to order l" "Shame-
ful !" WYou ass, come to order 1"  "Silence!"
and an endeavor of some of the wretched con-
servative members to sing "Old Hundred," as a
sedative, Moses crept out of the hall, after vainly
attempting to reach his friend, Mr. Noblock, who
was hopelessly involved in the crowd of disputants,
and in a doubtful physical contest with a stout
Quaker.
The radical barbarians had already succeeded
in their principal intention of giving to the con-
servative organization a black and revolutionary
aspect, from which it could not recover for six,
months at the very least, and soon succeeded in
the supplementary pleasantry to which they were
now devoting themselves, of ejecting the National
instructors by violence from  their hall.  The
delighted Small had the intense gratification for
a long while after this day of seeing his enemy,
Professor Quattler, deprived of much popularity
on account of the former, and there is every rea-
son to believe that he was satisfied with what
physically occurred to that gentleman during the
latter.
CHAPTER IX.
MISS WAGBULL AT HOrd-
Moszs essayed a second time successfully in
presenting himself at Miss Wagbull's threshold
without mistake. -By philosophically reflecting
that it was. but a human being whose presence he

MR. WI
was seeking, he had managed to subdue his ro-
mantic enthusiasm to a degree or two below that
which is commonly known as infatuation in the
thermometer of human hallucination. Still the
feelings which inspired the immortal Burke in his
brilliant allusion to the lovely Queen of France,
filled the bosom of our hero, as the young lady
received him in her drawing-room; and there is
no doubt that standing forth, he would have
madly extemporized an adaptation of that beauti-
ful apostrophe before her, had not the page of
the establishment, a rather fatuous appearing
Irish boy of tender age, remained to stare at him,
probably under the impression, from his majestic
port and lordly mien, that he was the real hero
of the latest dime novel, consumed in the entry-
way, and- wastow appearing again in respectable
society, in spectacles, after having mysteriously
escaped from the dungeons of his enemy.
"You may leave, Timothy," said the young lady.
I have been reading Paradise Lost," remarked
Moses to her, as he led her to a seat upon a tete-
a-tete, "and do you know I cheerfully left Eden
to come and see you ?"
I hope you will not create such a disturbance
as you did there," replied she animatedly.
Oh ! no. It is another thing now. I have
learned how to behave myself, in the presence of
angels."
I verily believe his majesty commenced with
poorEve in this very way. But perhaps you had bet-
ter talk in blank verse to me. I assure you I will
not find fault with the measure," said the young
lady- a7'ly.
I feel as though I might employ an orchestra
to express myself," replied Moses grandiosely.
Dear me! and while you are thinking about
them, perhaps I may very appropriately cry
'fiddle-sticks' to the whole subject. And tell me,'
has Mrs. Fasherlidge had the honor of your so-
ciety since her reception ?"
I have not yet called," replied he to her. "She
seemed a kind lady, devoted to religion, and yet
fond of social pleasures."
Yes, though extremely religious, if she is
still somewhat wedded to the world, it is cer-
tainly quite excusable," said the' young lady.
Her childhood was passed in the acquisition of
those elegant accomplishments which render the
homage of society a necesity to her happiness"
It is an enviable mean," continued Moses
thoughtfully, " to be able to cultivate, with due
regard to each, the sublime graces of religion and
the tasteful refinements of social mtercourse.. I
am one of those who think that the stern religious
enthusiast and the worldly devotee of fashion
are alike wrong."
"Yes, and both often unconsciously acknow-
ledge their error," added the youig lady. "The
one in the yearning so often evident in their
scorn for the pleasures of social life ; the other
in the casual sincerity with which they seek the
glorious shield of religion in affliction."
"But among all the examples of the eccentri-
cities of human nature," continued Moses, re-
flectively, " I think that of persons-ladies mov-
ing in intelligent society-whom we read of at-
tempting to chemically compound fashion and
religion, to be the most extraordinary. Their
pastors might be well occupied in pointing out to
them the ludicrous incongruity, if not the spirit-
ual danger of such a course."

NKFIELD.                                   23
"Were such a discourse elegantly composed,
with brilliant metaphors and original similes,
and eloquently delivered in the sweet, rich tones
of tin orotund voice, they would listen to it."
"You surely would not intimate, Miss Wagbull,
that any woman takes an interest in religion but
for such excitements? The universal suscep-
tibility of woman to true religion has been regard-
ed as a proof of the providential care of heaven
for the best interests of man !
"Yes, and I may incidentally observe these
divines have certainly reason to think so !" re-
plied Miss Wagbull, smiling at Moses's earnest-
ness.
"Dear me !" cried Moses warmly, " I do not
wish to believe that such females as'I have read
of do exist. But I have read, Miss Wagbull,
that in the accompaniments of real religion, in
charity for the real poor, for the gross and vul-
gar, the rude in speech, the base in sentiments
and squalid in garments, some are wanting; that
there are some by whom Charity, the divine
nymph, is only imagined with the loveliness of
their own faces and the graces of their own per-
sons."
" And how could they wish to come in contact
with a sufferer," added tbe young lady, "-less ele-
gant than themselves, with one who does not
possess the power of pathetic and polished lan-
guage and manners, to manifest the gratitude
with' which the niunificent bounty has over-
whelmed her?"
" Well, after all," replied Moses, " even such
benevolence, mingled as it is with the sentlimen-
tality of romance, is better than none. Elegance
or charity is not so reprehensible as the other,
elegance of religion. I have read, also," con-
tinued he, reverting again involuntarily, "of such
women being frequently tyrants in their house-
hold, regardless alike of the welfare of their
children and the feelings of their husbands ind
servants, and entertaining no idea but that of
their own wants, their own dignity and import-
ance. And while exercising prudence in manag-
ing their household, they do so principally fotr
the purpose of adorning their own persons with
the costly habiliments constantly dictated by the
arbitrary rules of fashion, with the hope of secur-
ing for themselves the approbation which the
world will bestow upon the brilliancy and the x-
quisite taste of their decorations."
The young lady again smiled at Moses's earnest-
ness, but nevertheless listened to him atten-
tively.
"I have heard, also," continued he, "of such
persons filling their private letters to absent friends
with artful expressions of affection, and with the
most generous and disinterested sentiments, and
yet often making themselves merry with the foibles
of those friends, regardless alike of their own
modesty and the sacredness of friendship. How-
ever, I hope you have not met with any instance
of such, Miss Wagbull ?" asked Moses, with
what seemed to her a real wistful hope of meet-
ing with a denial from her.
"Oh! no," replied the young lady, " except per-
haps only when the wit was without apparent
malice, and merely intended to excite the mirth
of those present."
" Ah ! that is perhaps pardonable. And I have
heard, also," continued Moses, " of such persons
being disposed to treat the experience of the


24                     MR. WINKFIELD.

aged, and the authority of the scientific, with
the superciliousness of an assumed superiority.
Yes, to feign a blush, not for themselves, but at
the bold presumption of these-"
He was here fortunately relieved of the un-
pleasant subject by the entrance of an aged lady,
accompanied by a stout middle-aged gentleman
with a flowing head of black hair. They both
resembled the young lady sufficiently to be at
once taken by Moses to be her relatives. The
gentleman had a kindred smile, and the old lady,
though apparently feeble in person, appeared to
possess the vigorous spirit, which Moses had been
delighted with in the young lady.
" Why, grandmother ! have you returned so
soon ?" exclaimed the latter.  "Mr. Winkfield,
this is my grandmother. Father, Mr. Wink-
field!"
The gentlema shook Moses's hand heartily,
and the old lady bade him resume his seat.
"cAny relation of the Chadwicks of Rensselaer
county ?" asked she, somewhat peremptorily.
" No, ma'am, not that I am aware of," replied
Moses.
"1Hum ! you have the Chadwick nose. I sup-
posed you were," continued the old lady, appear-
ing irritated at the disappointment. As she ap-
peared about to continue her remarks, there was
a deferential pause on the part of all three.
"1However, it is my opinion," continued she
shortly, "it is my opinion you don't know who
your relations are. The young snippers of the
present generation don't wish to have any, and
old times and genealogy are despised by 'em,"
concluded she, deeply aggrieved.
"I hope you will not class me, ma'am," said
Moses, "with those who have cast odium upon
their generation, by their flippant disregard of
such matters. I feel, with you, the error of their
course I
"orWhere did you come from? I've never seen
you before ?" asked the old lady in such a man-
ner as wouldnodoubt have confused Moses sx
ceedingrly, had he not noticed that both her son
and her grandaughter looked as if they would
like to have him humor her age.
"1Mr. Winkfield is from Massachusetts, grand-.
other replied the young lady.
11Well, Iam sorry for it," continued 'the old
lady, ferociously.  "They are a stuck-up race.
However, there are some good people there.
There is Governor Doolittle. I met him at Gover-
nor Tompkins's inauguration ball. He is a well-in-
formed gentleman, and his wife a lovely woman.
But the Massachusetts people are generally stuck
up and pretentious I"
Moses being aware of the fact that Governor
Tompkins had become a part of history, and, in
fact, had been dead for about thirty years, natural
ly concluded that the old lady had not exactly kept
up with the progress of events, and was, perhaps
disposed to consider her generation as the last ol
any account upon the earth.
"n What has put grandma in such a bad humor.
papa?" whispered the granddaughter to her pa-
rent.
"I don't know. She was in high spirits at
the Pompenkops before we came in- It is sin
gulr, o sonr did she come in here than sin
commenced to be petih. Sig soetig, Be
sic. Mother, don't you wish to hear Bessie sing?'

"Well, I don't mind if I do," replied the old
lady snappishly, and looking severely at our hero,
who was blushing in pleasure at the proposition,
and had gently risen to open the instrument.
" Always the way 1 They like the fiddlin', tid-
dlin' accompaniment better than they do the
song! What's become of the musical taste now-
adays ? I would sing myself for you, sir, if I
thought the young men of the present day knew
any thing about expression or execution ! But
no, I will not! I will not !" continued she, as
if determined to subject Moses to this bitter
disappointment.
The exquisite sympathy of the young lady's
voice, as she judiciously selected and sung a sim-
ple air of the old lady's youthful days, lent beauty
to the grotesque seediness of the Iflusic itself. A
thrill of pleasure darted through his vitality at
each note, and he expressed his gratification by
running his fingers through his hair.
"My darling girl!" said the old lady, as her
smiling granddaughter approached her, after she
had finished. Though the momentary result of
this experiment upon her feelings was a dispo.
sition of the venerable female to throw herself
upon the young lady's neck, her irritation seem-
ed presently to 'return with increased vigor.
" My dear child," continued she, "never shall
you leave me. 'You shall live all your life to be
a comfort to. your old grandmother 1" At this
point she seemed disposed to sniff at the sur-
prised Moses.
" By the way, mother, if Mr. Winkfield will ex-
cuse business, wouldn't you like to come into the
tea-room a moment? I want to consult you about,
that lease," said Mr. Wagbull, as both he and
his daughter observed that the old lady's dis-
pleasure appeared to be rather on the increase
than otherwise.
" Very well-yes, I will. I am going to bed
pretty soon," said the old lady, gazing at Moses
again ; "and it is time for all honest people to be
there."
Moses indeed was beginning to feel quite un-
comfortable, and would have implicitly taken the
hint of the aged relic of the past had not the
young lady immediately diverted his attention by
some pleasant remarks upon the curiosities of
old times and fashions. Although he could plain-
ly see by the shadow upon the glass doors- that
the old lady now and then came forward to watch
him through the crack thereof, and although at
one time he thought he heard the epithet "jack-
anapes I" audibly expressed therefrom, he was
still fain to continue; and afterward, when a
ifoise of some one throwing things around, and
with a cracked voice apparently pitching into a
domestic in the chamber overhead, reminded him
- that perhaps an hour and a half was sufficient for
a first call, he still lingered to converse with the
father, who was evidently much pleased with so
attentive a listener to his political reflections.
He even insisted upon regaling our hero there-
with, as far as Madison Square, upon the latter's
return home. As Moses could not resist the de-
sire to interrupt the other with repeated reflec-
tions upon his enjoyrent of the evening and the
- exquisite voice ofthejyoung lady, the old gentle-
emani suddenly informed him, with an air of ex-
- ultation, that she was "the greatest cook in New-
York City," an  thnlft hi.
Uon retahng this hotel Moses found a letter

MR, WINKFIELD.                                     25
addressed to him from the gentleman of diminu. about as unable to agree in their theories as the
tive stature who had the encounter with the cler- historians were in their facts. Still Moses had
gyman in the cars, and whose misplaced enthusi- derived from these labored lucubrations of dis-
asm in the cause of society he had not yet forgot- tinguished authority an excessive amount of
ten. The writer, Mr. Thomas Titman, warmly Hsthetic admiration, and as the criticisms which
thanked Moses for having upheld him in that at- are popularly considered best in such matters
tempt at discharging his duty, and courteously are generally those which consist from beginning
mitigated the further occupation of his attention to end of nothing but a varied expression of that
with the reason that our hero could best inform  pleasing emotion or of unmitigated vituperation,
him of the result of that endeavor, and also we should be authorized to repeat here minutely
whether he could return to theveity again, to state the scientific reflections which an inspection of
it briefly, with safety. He frankly confessed that, this rare collection would naturally draw fro=
acting impulsively upon a momentary change in our hero. But instead of this we are forced to
his conviction with regard to the clergyman's chronicle a remarkable condition, into which his
character, he had thought it best to immediately emotional nature was immediately thrown upon
absent himself from the scene, and had retired his entrance into the room, which lasted until he
for the night to an inn in an obscure part of the withdrew therefrom, and which had the effect of
city. That he was subsequently drugged and rendering the use of his critical faculties of no ac-
robbed in that neighborhood of every thing he count. Hanging upon the wall, directly in front of
had upon his person, and had finally returned to the entrance, was a large painting of a nude figure,
his native place, Dibbletown, without having ac- which, after a lightning glance from our hero,
complished the original object of his mission, either by its unexpectedness or truthfulness to
which was to examine, as a committee, the Cro- nature, caused him to blush violently, and drove
ton aqueduct, in reference to a project entertained his gaze to another portion of the room. The
by his fellow-townsmen, of introducing water into second object which then met his vision was a
Dibbletown from an adjacent brook.          group of sculptured nude figures, illustrating some
Moses, ere he retired, penned a reply, in which low mythological fable and some high artistic
he benevolently proffered his assistance to Mr. truth, which, however, had no other effect upon
Titman in his official and social investigations, him than causing him to turn redder than
and sent it off by the morning's mail.      ever, to drop his eye-glasses, and again change
his position. After recovering his presence of
mind, he readjusted his'eye-glass and prepared
to inspect whatever work of art should next en-
counter his optical organs. He did so, and his
CHAPTER X.                   cheeks burned with a still intenser blaze. It was
CURIoUs EFFECT OF ART UPON OUR HERO. HE IN- a representation of the fable of Diana and Actmon.
DULGES IN LUXURIES. A FINE FIELD FOR THE He proceeded in a lively manner. Venus rose
EXEaCISE OF HISPHIILANTHROPY AND PHILo- from the sea on the breathing, life-like canvas
XSOPHCI OSERVATION ISAOPENED TOA  IM.  -before him. Even the frame-maker. shared the
triumph of the painter-.-a number of naked little
.THE next morning was a bright one, for the cupids played in the golden parallelogram sur-
wind had changed, and Moses, observing the om- rounding the painting. Again Danvo lay beneath
nibuses crowded with merchants hurrying to the golden shower, or Musidora bathed her pol-
their places of business, while others were vigor- ished limbs in the gelid fount. He retraced his
'ously walking to theirs, was inspired with the steps. It was strictly a classical collection. On
briskness of the- scene. He bade adieu to the all sides he saw breathing figures, either starting
glowing coal-fire and his easy-chair, and resolved from the canvas, clothed in slight apparel, or
that he also would pursue at once his business of standing forth in the chaste divinity of the mar-
inspecting life, Nulla dies sine lined. Jack Frost ble, clothed in no apparel at all. Nine tenths of
bit his fingers and toes quite smartly at first, but the glorious embodiments were unfettered with
he soon walked himself into a vigorous glow and robes of man's making. That our hero, notwith-
delicious spirits, at the moment considering win- standing all the glory and the chaste divinity,
ter to be the most delightful of the seasons. A  actually blushed himself out of the room, we may
large notice attracted his attention at the sculp- say was chiefly owimg to the peculiarity of his
tured entrance of a distinguished building upon temperament ; and for his opinions upon art,
Broadway, denoting that it was devoted to the which we had hoped to furnish our readers, we
exhibition of some of the rarest specimens of the must refer them to some other occasion.
fine arts of statuary and painting ever imported  As Moses regained the entrance, lhe observed
to this continent. He mounted a spacious staircase an old man with a basket of ginger-cakes, who,
and sauntered into a magnificent gallery, fur- contracted with the cold, had taken refuge there-
nished with all the delicate appliances of modern in, and was endeavoring to keep off further en-
luxury, for the assistance of languid fashion in a croachments of- the bitterness of the day, by
critical inspection of the various artistic triumphs swaying his body to and fro.
which hung upon the walls or stood upon the   " Well, my man ! What have you there ?"
tesselated pavement.  Among the numerous asked Moses, after a rapid survey ~of the scanty
works which Moses had read in his multifarious and tattered habiliments of the merchant.
studies were several histories of the fine arts of " Ginger-snaps, please, sir. They are good, sir.
painting and sculpture-extremely inasterly when Keep your belly imice and warm, sir." The 01(1
digested separately, but rather coiifusing when fellow at that moment evidently regarded warmth
taken together - and also many elucidations of as the most desirable of earthly luxuries, lie
the theoretical principles thereof, subject to the rubbed his own pinched sat ch, to gie
same fault perhaps, as the authors thereof were ditional humor to his old-fashioned jest.,  tran


of thoughts upon one of the most inscrutable a pleasant nod of semi-recognition  toward
of subjects was immediately aroused in Moses's him.
mind, and so completely did it take possession of "Yes," replied Moses, " an exciting scene, sir !"
him that he unconsciously expressed his ideas  "Yes," replied the young man, smiling; "queer
thereon by violent frowning and emphatic gestures. accident that, to the professor with the gold
" Just see that costly scene above; it does sem  specs !"
singular," said he, striking his hand smartly with  "An accident ?"
his fist, "that Providence should order such dis- "Were you not there? A trap-door in the floor
sensations. I've looked for their reason in vain, gave way! He happened to be upon it in the
and I must say-Good gracious! I forgot,"   - hustle, and jumped so hard upon it in his effort
" Oh! you say you would like to eat a couple ?" to restore order, it broke, toppled sidewise and".
inquired the old man.                       let him through into the stable below, and he fell
"A couple! I'll eat them all, every one of right astraddle of a horse feeding in his stall.
them, replied Moses savagely. "I don't care, you Ha! ha ! the old horse must have been disgust-
may throw in the confounded basket. There are dd, mustn't he ?"
two dollars. Take them, and leave the snaps and  In the enjoyment of the anecdote, Moses in-
go about your business. Stay," continued he, as sensibly drew his chair nearer the young man,
the astonished old man took the money and began who complaisantly cleared a space upon his table
to slink off, eying Moses as if he felt he had in- for the former's mutton-chop. Our hero soon
flicted upon the latter some deep injury  "Where learned that the young man was acquainted with
do you live?"                               Mr. Noblock, and also with his uncle, Mr. Top-
The man appeared to have an indefinite idea of lady, having met the latter in business circles,
where he did live. After fumbling around in his that his name was Bunter, and that he was the
memory, of several places, he selected a large "invoice clerk of Tudlum, Shaw &amp; Co., round
house in Frankfort street, near the New Bowery, the corner."
stating that lie had a daughter living with him  "That society," said the clerk, continuing the
who was bed-ridden.                         conversations, "may not do much good, Mr. Wink-
" Very well, go on," said Moses. "Here, give field, but at any rate it does no harm, like some
me four snaps; you may have the basket and the of the hypocritical ones !"
rest of the snaps too.  You had better eat    "Hypocritical ones !" repeated Moses.
them."                                        "Yes, concerns which under the pretense of
The old man began to realize a deep sense of charity, and religion too, swindle their customers
Moses's generosity. "I'll pray for you! I'll pray out of their money, and what is more, out of
for you!" said he, in his gratitude, and he was in their rightful senses sometimes !  The youngg
earnest. He unaffectedly went through with the man here looked hastily at his watch, then at
Lord's prayer upon the spot, and not only that, Moses, and continued vivaciously: "You may
but wound up in his simple enthusiasm with that think I am too severe, Mr. Toplady, but I assure
usual supplement of the sublime Watts of you I am not.     For instance, I have personal
Now I lay me," etc.                        knowledge of the rascality of one of these hypo-
Fearful that the old man's attitude might at- writes in private life, and if you have a mind to
tract passers-by and create a scene, Moses hastily hear it," continued he, as if ardently desirous of
sent him off, and wended his own way down the interesting Moses, "I'll prove my position by
street, the four snaps in his overcoat-pocket at- facts I by facts
tracting for a block or two a keen-scented cur,  Moses intimated his desire to hear.them, and
who was also actively engaged in procuring a pre- the other proceeded.
canionslivelihood in the public thoroughfares.  "Well, I have a friend, you know, who is se-
cae turned toward Ittner's in Grand street, for cretly engaged to a Brooklyn young lady, sir,
the purpose of procuring a noon-day sandwich. and I am, confident the old folks-that is, her
Being urmore curious than hungry, however, he was father and her aunt, you know-if they were left
led into a smaller place near by. It was a to their own real feelings, would permit him to
youthful establishment compared with the other, marry her; although he has been brought up as
and perhaps was not much over-visited    by a kind or sort of Swedenborgian, and can't very
customers.  For this reason, no doubt, when well be a Presbyterian, -and says lie won't be, un-
Moses entered a young man who was standing til he has examined into it for a few years. But
near the counter therein, rushed to the rear and no matter for that, what I want to say is, that a
cried out excitedly to some one down-stairs, rekerend rascal, a sample of the goods I referred
"There is another one I another one has come in, to, has been for a long time worming his way
Williams !"                                 gradually into their affections, until he has got to
Moses quietly seated himself at one of the be a partner in the firm, sir. Yes, lie is there
little tables, when another party, evidently the three quarters of his time, and lives there, in fact,
cook and partner, hastily presented himself from  as a kind of chaplain and escort to meeting.
below, to be optically assured of the event. For some reason or other, probably because I
Moses at once ordered a mutton-chop, to subduo havo openly oxproggod my contempt and that sort
the ill-concealed agitation of these parties, and ot thing for him, he opposes the match, and he
then looked about him. There was another per. has succeeded in prejudicing Susie's father and
son in the room partaking of a repast, and upon aunt so much against Me, that the last time my
a second inspection he observed that it was the friend was there, the old gentleman told me
oung man who sat near him at the Conservative plainly, not to come inside of the house again.
Society's meeting of yesterday. Moses again My friend is very unhappy, and feels crazy about
looked at him, and he in return looked familiarly it. I am kind of unfitted for business by it, amid
atMoss."Ahem!~ I believe I met you at the losing time for nothing."
meetings yesterday," said he, as our hero made "But have-has your friend no relatives or

MR. WINKFIELD,

26

I

9r

acquaintances, who might by theirpersonal efforts apartment near him in the hotel, and who ap-
assist himi" asked Moses sympathetically. - peared to be himself occupied by a melancholy
No. Personal efforts are of no use, nothing demon.  _The unhappiness of the gentleman,
can be done unless it be to open. the old folks' Moses romantically attributed to the influence of
eyes first, and make 'em  believe lie is a rascally high art, and frequently sought his presence for
loafer -"                                    the express purpose of imbibing himself the rav-
"Just so. That is what I mean, to divest this ishingr feeling. By the constant contemplation
fellow  of his unrighteous power !" continued of the uncomfortable painter's countenance and
Moses warmly.   "I should hold it the duty of interspersed attempts to smoke his meerschaum
those near by to use their efforts in crushing such pipe, Moses generally succeeded in reducing his
wicked'imposture-such sacrilegious prostitution usually high spirits to the very last stages of
of the pacred garb of religion; not only for your misery, and in this condition, the two might be
friend's sake, sir, but generally, for the sake of frequently found together, looking dolefully into
society and hurmamity at large !"            the fire, or drinking a glass of wine in dejected
"It is not so easy to do it, Mr. Winkfield," abstraction.
replied Mr. Bunter, and here lie proceeded to re-  " No. You don't say so ?" exclaimed our hero
late many incidents illuminating .the case, and one afternoon, as Mr. Pinksitt, the artist, was
going to prove undoubtedly that he was quite alluding to some of the peculiarities of town life
correct in both his estimates of the rascality and in endeavoring to give Moses a more thorough
power of the hypocrite, and the weakness and insight therinto.
piety. of the honest people to whom  that indi-  " I assure you," replied the other, "there are
vidual had attached himself.                  repeated instances here in New-York society, of
And if it wasn't for that very thingg" con- women who are quietly awaiting the decease of
eluded lie, "of leaving the- old folks in such their advanced husbands, in order that they may
hands, Susie says she would   consent to run revert with the property thereof to their original
away-                                       lovers, who are as quietly awaiting for that hap-
"She is a brave and honorable girl, and I re- py event !"
spect her for that.  You have interested me     " Lord bless meud  what a dreadful position-for
with these incidents, perhaps merely to illustrate the unhappy husband, if lie should discover it!"
society, but allow me here, sir, to express my  "IHa ! ha! Perhaps some of them know be-
earnest sympathy for that young lady and your- forehand. They are generally rich money-bags,
self-I mean your friend who is so unhappily who are experienced in buying and selling, and
placed."                                     they ought to know what the young souls are
Thank you.'                               they purchase !" said the artist satirically.
And allow me to observe, were I called upon  " But what a dreadful position for young souls
to assist their just efforts to thwart the designs of voluntarily to assume !"
this evil-minded person-as from what you have   "My dear sir, young souls assume many foolish
related, he undoubtedly is-I could not consei- positions because they are young, and old ones
entiously decline," said Moses, striking an eni- because they are old, for that matter. Let m
phatie blow upon the table.  '                tell you an anecdote of a person whom I'happen
The young man grasped Moses's hand warmly to know was concerned in one of these affairs.
at this characteristic speech, and formally revealed Ila! ha! when I think of it, it assumes the shape
himself as the party to the affair. On the spot of the ridiculous. A young friend of mine in our
lie further confided to him the name of his pro- profession," continued the artist confidentially,
posed father-in-law, their place of residence, the " while he was studying in Rome, met a young
number of inmates of the house, the numberless lady with whom he was accustomed in infancy to
virtues of his darling Susie, the daily habits of play bo-peep and tea oi his mother's back-stoop."
every one of the family, and in fact of the     " Stoop ?"
Dutch grocer at the corner, and of the milkmam; . " O  his mother's rear portico. This young
and even alluded feehingly to the fact of a pet cat lady had unwillingly married a retired naval ofli-
being constantly present in the front-basement cer thrice her senior, extremely rich, and of sus-
window. .                                     picious temperament. Being frequently in the
Moses in turn invited him to dinner, and the studio of my friend, she exercised her generosity
young victim of the wiles of the reverend wolf, upon hinm, and in return therefor lie gratefully
during that repast, made an appointment with fell im love with her. She had been expecting
Moses for an introduction to the young lady something all her life, and this was it. She was
above mentioned, as a confidential adviser ani of vivacious temperament, and at first, she pro-
assistant hypocrite-fighter.                  posed that they should jump together from the
Thus casually was a new field of benevolence lantern of St. Peter's. Her infatuation being
and philosophic observation opened for the ar- toned down to the religious state, she next suig-
dent exploration of our hero.                 tested the idea of running away into the interior
of Africa, and founding a chaim of mienionary Sab-
bath-schools from one end to the other of that
delightful but unenlightened continent. After-
CHAPTER X1.                    ward she proposed a heavy chiaroscuro, to appeal
MR. PINKSITT POINTS A MORAL IN. A PERSONAL' to the generosity of her spouse, and asking him
TALE. MOSES coiMES NEAR MAKING THE LATTER to do the gentlemanly thing and die, or let her
TL    MOE    OINE      A    ITE          - have a separation in some other way from  him.
TINUED.But after all, both these young people were child-
D -reni of honor, and they kept the old gentlemani as
DUaING th1e absence "of his. uncle, Moses be- respectably happy as possible iin his domestic
caine acquainted wih an artist, who occupied an feelings. Perhaps hue did not possess originally

MR. WINKFIELD.


MR. WIMKPIFELD.
a very suspicious nature; but as she, being a lively  "'My dear Captain,' said my friend jocosely,
and headstrong character, had told him that it 'I advise you to sell out if it is going to be man-
was the height of infatuation to think she could aged as it has been and is now!',
love him, he naturally concluded that if she did  "'Is now?' reiterated the obstinate marine.
not him she would some one else. His sense of 'Why; d-n your eyes, stick to painting.  I
honor which he ought to have thought of when he will bet you five hundred dollars, sir, I can start
married her, thus became extremely morbid. -He from here to-night, wintry and sleety as it is, go
had heen continually prowling about, and been to Albany, write a letter to you announcing my,
discovered with extraordinary missiles of destruc- anchoring there, receive your answer before start-
tion in all sorts of foolish places, and he had not ing back, and then make the return voyage before
been married two years before he had permanent- to-morrow noon! Yes, sir!,
ly lamed in a duel a fast young fellow whom he  "'My dear sir!l' my friend proceeded, 'I am
overheard talking flippantly of his conjugal rela- unable to continue the contest i  that way,
tions, and expelled from the country two French 'but--'
counts and a German pianist, who had comment.  "'So you are; d-n it, I'll advance you the five
ed to obey the instincts of their troubadouric na- hundred on your bottom. Stay; I want to con-
ture in his household. What was originally a vince you now. -I'll tell you what 1ll do. I'll-
pleasing excitement became afterward a mania, I'll-d-n it !-I'll bet you five hundred against
and he used to confide to our young friend in the a fulllength of my wife, that I'll do it. The train
studio at Rome, in his more pleasant monients, a will start in a half an hour from now,-and I'll go,
new method which he had invented of skinning confound me if I don't !'
alive and which he proposed trying upon the first  "'Agreed! agreed !' cried my friend. 'Though
subject that was properly offered him. The art- such a night as this-'
ist was continually running the danger of being "'Wife, my carpet-bag. John, my carriage.
offered up as that subject, by the headstrong Come along, and tow me to the depot! cried
nature of the lady, and when they all returned to the aroused stockholder.I
America last year, the latter had reached so far  "And off he did actually go, not only preparing
in her affection for the artist as to be in her turn for my friend an ample opportunity to calm and
jealous of him, and she frequently threatened to instruct his impassioned female acquaintance, but
invoke for him the fate, which he was beginning even having made the arrrangement to inform him
to think he merited, for this platonie, but hazard- by letter oC the exact moment he might be ex-
os speculation. The husband had always look- pected back. Ha! ha!I ha!I  Do you see the
ed upon him up to' this moment, as a straightfor- point?" continued Mr. Pinksitt, forgetting for
ward, agreeable artist, with no passion in his the moment his melancholy. "And in addition
composition but for his profession, and used fre- to that, authorizing my friend to see his wife quite
quently to invite him to dine in company with frequently upon the subject of the portrait.
himself and his wife. But the lady's ardent nature However, he was tired of the impropriety. But
had at last obtained so much the mastery of her it was an original thing, wasn't it ?"
prudence as to place their secret in jeopardy, the  "Yes, extremely ingenious," replied Moses.
slightest suspicion of which no doubt would have "I must laugh at it, though I disapprove of the
ultimately exposed them both to extreme danger. cause in which it was effected. I certainly disap-
At last the jealous habits of the captain increased prove of the cause as French and unnatural. Ha.,
to such an extent, that he was disposed to watch ha! yes; very funny !" 4
his wife's movements with the closest scrutiny.  The artist here suddenly ceased laughing as a
The artist cautioned her, even forbade her at- stranger entered the room, an elderly gentleman
tempting to meet him -alone, as a matter of the with a pair of close-cropped side-whiskers, and a
highest importance and yet, on the other hand, rather resolute expression about the nose.
he was constantly eubjected to the fear that her  "Hallo, Pinksitt, how are you ?" oed he.
pent-up feelings would explode in some overt act "Excuse my sailing you down in this way. I
which would be fatal,  To be able to obtain beg pardon, you are engaged."
private interviews with her, fbr the purpose of  "No, no," replied Mr. Pinksitt.  "By the
allaying her critical feelings, had become rather way, allow me, Winkfield, my friend, Captain
serious and difficult.                     Grimble.".
"1Now after all this background, I'll put in the  "How do you do, sir ?" said the stranger, salut-
main points with a throw of the brush. They ing Moses.  "Blast your eyes, and holystone
were at dinner.                            ;our quarter-deck, Pinksitt, what have you been
"'Pshaw,' said my friend, 'you talk about the doing for a month?  I can see the barnacles
activity and public spirit of that railroad. ' I have growing upon you! Wife saw you at Forrest's
knvn some of my friends to be all day on the benefit last night. I was so interested in the
road from here to Albany-a day and a half there play, that I didn't. Fine play, Othello, sir," con-
and back!'                                 tinuedhe turning to Moses.  And fine example,
" The husband was a stockholder in the road sir !"1
which was the subject of conversation.       "Yes," replied Moses, much taken with the-
"'What!' said he indignantly.   'Absurd! stranger's cordial manner.
Such ridiculous stories as that are blasted sailing  "I hold a true gentleman is bound to at once
athwart-bows by the bloody, rival concern. Ab- protect his honor and the honor of his family and
surd!' ancestors," continued the other. " That is what
"They are absurd from the fact of their being pleases me in the play. As a Grimble, I say it"
real, replied my friend.             '        " Though it is dreadful, it would seem, apart
'D--n it ! I know better !' roared the hus- from the laws of society, to be right, when his sus
band in a great rage. ' I own stock in that picions are properly confirmed," suggested Moses
road, and-'     ,  'philosophically.

-I

29

MR. WINKFIE.

Society is much better for it; much better !" found him in waiting. The half-holiday bad been
replied the stranger.                       willingly accorded by the head, who had even
Singular !" here said Moses, who had remem- kindly volunteered to go to the Custom-House and
bered the coincidence, and was smiling at it. do up in person the usual perjury which fell
"Just before you came in, my friend, Mr. Pink- ordinarily to his clerk's lot.  They soon crossed
sitt was relating-Mr. Pinksitt, suppose you--"  that noble arm of the sea, the East River, and
"Winkfield-!" interrupted the artist quite sud- landed after an agreeable though somewhat
denly, "just draw a whiff or two from this pipe monotonous voyage of two minutes at the foot
again. I know you do not like smoking, but this of Fulton street, in the city of churches. The
Turkish tobacco is exquisite !" chief objects '.of interest which lie observed in
"Don't like smoking .  I don't know how I that busy thoroughfare, appeared to be the extra-
should sail along without my segar after dinner," ordinary number of bright-faced young ladies cat-
said the representative of the Grimble race. ing candy therein, the equally extraordinary num-
"Pahaw ! Pinksitt. I like to have forgotten my her of other females apparently suffering from
charter. Mrs. Gritable sent me round to ask you tooth-ache, and the bitter cold weather. "This
to dinner to-morrow. You have not dined with must be a very pleasant place in summer !" said
us since you lost your bet, you know! Ha! ha! he, shivering.
How about our railroad now, eh?"              As they passed the Episcopal church in Mon-
Moses started involuntarily.              tague street, several persons closely observed
"Yes, you rather had the better of me there, I them to see if they took notice of the famous
must confess," replied the artist, at whom Moses stained windows thereof, and when they did not
now gazed with increasing agitation. "Wink- hatred and anger were plainly visible on the faces
field, I see that pipe does not agree with you after of the unhappy citizens. As they walked along,
all, It certainly makes you a little pale. Let Moses, who had become thoroughly convinced o'
me take it. (Take care, you will betray me !)" the rascality of the hypocritical minister, pro-
whispered he hurriedly to our bewildered hero.  ceeded to exhaust himself and his companion
"So it has-really-it has muddled me.    I also, by a tremendous philippic against hypocrisy
feel-ha! ha !-as if I had not a drop of blood in general, which ended in his feelings getting
in my veins !" stammered Moses, shuddering,  the better of his intellect, as shown by various
"Let me open the window," interrupted the vague anathemas and- violent gesturva utterel
benevol nt Grimble.                         and made.
No, no, replied Moses, recovering his presence  "What do you think of my killing him ?" asked
of mind.   Singular, that I should have that young Bunter, infected by these amplification.
vertigo just then !"                        His business habits of mind were plainly visible
"But you are better now, oh ?" continued the in this proposition.
captain.   By the way, suppose we have the     "Killing him! Elh?" asked Moses somewhat
honor of your society, too, to-morrow, Mr. Wink- startled.
field. Happy to see you."                     "Yes. Putting him out of existence. Doesn't
"Really, how unfortunate. It will be impossi- lie deserve it ? Wouldn't I be doing a duty to
ble ." replied Moses, with the air of having a my fellow-beings by kicking the fellow entirely
most vexing preengagement for the very hour of out of the shop ?'
the captain's dinner.                         While Moses felt that the proposition of his
"Well, some other time. I am jealous of the companion was a lofty prompting of nature,
honor and hospitality of the Grimbles, and I shall such were his pr(jtudices in favor of the usual
take it as a personal affront, if you do not afford forms of society, that he felt himself called upon
us the pleasure some other time," replied the to dissent therefrom.
captain with growing affability. "My wife says I  "Very well !" said Bunter with a resigned air
am jealous too, and I wish to prove to her, the "let us say no niore about it. I have often thought
lttle craft, tha I'm not the pirate she takes me about it. I only wanted a little encouragement,
to be, ha! h !"                             and thought you might perhaps give it to ic!"
Pshaw, she is as jealous as you are, Captain !"  "No, I advise you to dismiss it from your mind
interposed Mr. Pinksitt pleasantly,         at once. I can't approve of it at all. Not at all,"
" Well, good by, as revoir. Remember, Pink- continued our hero emphatically.
sitt-to-morrow at five."                      " Very well. She lives in the second house
"Certainly, adieu. Ta-ta, Captain !"     around the corner from here'!" said Mr. Bunter-
"0! dear, I an so glad he is gone 1" cried somewhat nervously, as they reached a little gro-
Moses, sinking into a chair, and wiping the per- cery store situated at a corner, with many large
spiratiron from his brow.                  mansions amid spacious gardens in the neighbor-
W ell, on the whole, I really think I am too," ?hood. "1Excuse me a iomient," said lie, enter-
said the artist.                           imig the store and exchanging a rather mysterious
.... word or two with its proprietor. " I scoin to do
any thing underhanded, and so would Susie," con-
CHAPTR Xtinued lie as ho returned, " but an arrangement
CHAPER Xis absolutely necessary."
MOSES PROCEEDS TO SURVEY THE PILD oPENED     This delicate manner of alluding to the fact,
TO HIM iN CHAPTER TEN. HIE IS HmGHLY PLEASED that lie had quietly bribed thme Dutch proprietor
WITH THE AMIABLE CHiARAcTER OF iS sELF-CON- nforesaiid to watch tme daily miovements of the
STITUTED wARDS.                           family, was duly appreciated by Moses.
S".The fact of it is, I might as wel avoid a row
ACCORDING to his engagement with young with the old gentlenian, you know. I believe I
tBunter at dinner, Moses repaired at the appointed told you lie is rather disinclined to have mec about,"
time to the former's counting-house, where he whispered Mr. Bunter as they mounted the step's


L

30                               MR. WINKFIELD.
of a lareoldfashionea house in Holly street, the mayor's back-kitchen at the dinner hour for
with broad windows and pleasant grounds to look the same interesting purpose.
at therefrom.                                  " I don't care any thing about the property. I
A round-faced young lady with flaxen curls, am willing to work !" said the faithful Tom,
who had evidently been on the watch, quietly " but Susie is right about leaving the old folks,
opened the door.                             and I'll stand by her until I die, sell me as dam-
Papa is at the bank and aunt Jane and Mr. aged if I don't."
Rascal are off ahan on a  i tour through     "That is right.' Come and stand by me now,
Brazil at the Cooperinstitute," said she.  my dear, for I want to pull your hair. No, no.
Ah Susie! let me introduce Mr. Winkfield to By the way, go and look out of the window, Tom-
you, Mr. Moses Winkfield.  Our friend, you my. I want to talk with Mr. Moses for a mo-
yo, MI  Mr. Wneinificantly      n         mont," said the young lady, suddenly abstracted.
nowam so happy to see you again, Mr. Wink- " That is my diplomacy, Mr. Winkfield; when I
field. I say again, for do you knowI have seen wish any one to go away, I tell them so."
you a thousand times before, hovering over Tom  " There is something which I think you ought
and mc with wings" cried the young lady viva- to know at once, Mr. Winkfield," continued she,
ciously.  tupon my word, I have, in my as Tom delicately withdrew, " and I have con-
-cios     Uo'wcluded to tell you before I forget it. The other
Moses made a profound bow, and looked in day-now don't tell Tom, will you ?-the other
such a pleased manner at her, that it increased day I was in the library when the Rev. Mr.
her fancy for him at once.                   Hunkvfell came in very suddenly, and after look-
"e0 Mr. Winkfield do let me call you Mose !" ing siilingly at me and observantly at the door,
continued she.  It is so confiding "        lie rushed up to me in an impressive manner. I
Our hero at once gallantly gave her general am positive lie was going to attempt to kiss me,
permission to call him sy thing, porvided he for he seized my hand and when I drew it from
might be known by it as her devoted admirer.  him and deliberately boxed his ears he did not
mgTom became poetical about you and called seem surprised at all. But such is his insolence,
you a matchless gentleman. So do , but Idon't which, alas, has become only too powerful in this
wish you to remain matchless long, and I suggest house, that when I looked menacingly at him, he
Tom's cousin in Seneca county! Oh! how crazy smiled in contempt at what influence I might
she'd be if she saw you! I would be myself, if it possess with my own father and aunt; just think
were not for poe  old Tom's having carried my of it.' It is horrid. A married man! I am so
boos for me, going home from school "r    rad I have some one to whom I could reveal
"I told her all about you, you know, said this! Tom would become desperate if I told him
Tom, in high spirits himself,               of it, and when I think of it I feel-you know-
"Yes, and I've been getting up such a dinner so hortid !" as
for you, Mr. Winkfield, in imagination, you un-  What!' gasped Moses in asemi-speechless
derstand, when we are settled. The first cull- way.  Let me-utter  y abhorrence of that
nary talent of Brooklyn will be devoted to it, and wretched man! Let me-"
you are to have the extraordinary privilege of "And on another occasion, continued the en-
kissire the great cook herself when it is finished, courted young lady; "I was-however,;I sup-
namely, the honorable and much obliged Mrs. pose you don't care about that incident."
Tonm Bunter."                                 " Certainly !" suggested Moses. "It would be
That dinner, were it with but a crust of bread, better to have his character weiglIed by all the
would be fit for kings!" said Moses feigning great factw."
solemnity and laying his hand on his heart.    "It was about mny garter. You a5ce my con-
"She's a little enthusiastic, Mr. Winkfield"~ founded garter becoming untied-"
said Tom apologetically.  "But repress your feel-  "Never mind. It is immaterial!" replied Mo-
ings, Susie, and let us calmly discuss theyprojects 505 hastily. "And let me at once state, Miss
i      before us."sTomlins, that I intend that fellow shall be pun-
"You are a good boy, Tom, always so sober ished, first of all, by an ignominious dismissal
and steady, and I will," continued the young from this house, and then-"
ady, slapping her friend upon the shoulder. "Yes,  At this moment a very loud blast upon a fish-
let us see whate we three fellows can do?  Bt horn was heard, apparently coming from the
you will come and see me some other time won't neighborhood of the corner grocery. It was the
you, and tell me what you think of Tom ?" faithful signal which announced a necessary close
With a wave of the hand worthy of the old of the conference.
school, Moses promised himself that pleasure "O'Lordy " said Mr. Bunter, retreating sim-
froquently. So much was he pleased with the ultaneously from  the window. '"There's sthe
simple reliance of the young lady, that he at once carriage !"
assumed a parental air over them both, pretend-  My goodness! fAut Jane and her confes-
inv to attentively inspect the pictures upon the sor come back from  Brazil  s exclaimedt-the
walls, or increasing his emphasis in his remarks, young lady, running bto the curtains.
durtmg their subsequent little love passages., He  It was thought best that Mr. Bunter should
saw that, notwithstanding the liveliness of the avoid the approach of the persons referred to
young lady she possessed much common-sense by Susie, anid as they had rendered his exit by
and female tact; and as she appeared also to have the hail unavailable, because they had stopped
a deep affection for her father and aunt, anid had at the front-door thereof, he quietly stepped into
property depending upon her movements, he dis- a small fuel-closet in the apartment to await intil
missed from his mind the romantic plans of imme- he could leave the mansion unobserved byt them.
union consummated upon thee spt or ofa seen  tha it wo   l pas besinjudicious fo him,

MR. WINKFIELD-

.4

I

31

also, to disclose himself, until the plans were
more matured. He therefore generously under-
took to place himself for the moment beneath
the old-fashioned sofa upon which he was sitting,
not deeming it undignified or improper, under
the circumstances. He had scarcely succeeded
in this, when the parties at the door, consisting of
a solemn lady, weighing between three hundred
and four hundred pounds, and a gentleman of
ordinary dimensions, came into the room,'Pot
slowly or with the customary gait, but with all
the evidences of a panic. The gentleman pushed
violently past the lady, ran wildly around the
centre-table, and then, without uttering a word,
pursued his way through the rear door into the
hall, from which he rapidly sought an apartment
on the other side.  The lady tottered toward
the sofa, beneath which our hero lay concealed,
and upon which she fell with all the inanimate
force of thorough consternation. The bottom
and springs of the seat were broken by this, and
the whole superimposed weight was precipitated
upon the person of our hero, who was conse-
quently squtezed within an imch of his existence.
With the theory that an untimely earthquake
had suddenly taken place, he would have gasped
a suffocated appeal to be rescued from the dread-
ful pressure of the ruins, had he not heard an
indistinct voice from the mass resting upon him.
There is a person at the door begging for
charity, who has had the small-pox !" observed
that voice in accents of terror.
Enlightened by these words upon the nature
of the situation, he endured for a few moments
thereafter with heroic magnanimity the severe'
torture, convulsively endeavoring to alleviate the
same by reflections upon the grand but inexora-
ble laws of gravitation. The young lady hastily
rang the bell for aid. The domestics came, and
with the assistance of the gentleman, who had
by this tune properly taken the prophylactic step
of drinking a glass of brandy from the medicine.
chest in the library, the lady was removed from
the sofa and ultimately to her room. The dis-
eased party at the front-door in the mean time
had retired therefrom, disgusted at the failure
of his charge ipon the benevolence of the man-
sion, and at a proper opportunity shortly after-
ward the two conspirators left also, the breath-
ing organs of our hero not being as efficacious
as usual, and many of his bones aching severel-,
CIIAPTER XIII.
MR. THOMAS TITAN. M'SS VISITS THE REGIONS
OF THE NEW BoWERY AND CREATES AN EXCITE-
MENT THERE.
Ma. TITMAN, the noble Dibbletonian gladiator
of society, arrived at the Evercroft House, and im-
mediately elected himself as a temporary follower
of our hero. In an interesting autobiographical
sketch he illuminated the pleasant fact that he
was an older alumnus of the college from which
Moses had graduated.
"Class of '51," said Mr. Titman. " Great times
Swe used to have. We were regarded by the whole
faculty as the most talented class that ever had
appear ed in the college. I remember onde, ha !
ha ! when four of us threw a log of wood through

hi

one of the juniors' windows, and knocked down
 half the class ! Hodle never liked us, and re-
k paid us one day. We had tied a goat in his chair.
He came in and seeing the aniinal, says lie,
' Gentlemen, I perceive you have at last a teach.
I er whom you can appreciate!' and for a week
after we vere compelled by the faculty, in sec-
i tions, to feed our new  professor with cabbage
leaves, to comb his beard, and pay him other
delicate toilet attentions, two of us being special-
ly detailed to sit solenly during the hour at ei-
ther side of him as assistant professors, ha! ha I"
From these and other anecdotes, Moses soon
learned that his lively friend had not been much
given to study during his collegiate career, that
his stay there had been abruptly terminated be-
fore the usual period, and that he now profes-
sionally affected architecture, engineering, and
drawing. As the conversation proceeded, Moses
was captivated by his vivacity, and his own man-
ner in turn quite won the confidence of the little
man, so much so that after the latter had refilled
is glass with wine a second time lie revealed to
our hero his susceptibility to female influence by
intimating that his temporary absence from Dib-
bletown was partly to allay an affair of that na-
ture, in which he was involved with two sisters,
who apparently had both haplessly fallen into
the same infatuation.
" They are large, noble girls, both of 'em)"
continued Mr. Titman. " Taller than I. And
such flow of feeling ! Something so fresh about
them. Such artless envy, such fighting and jeal
ousy, and. all on my account!   I don't know
which one to take. I am really puzzled, they are'
so nearly alike in their affection ; and such is
their harmony and sisterly love in all matters
excepting this, that I've felt it my duty to give
neither any encouragement, and in fact to draw
off to avoid breaking tip this lovely tenderness.
My lot is hard. I've either to give up my love or
commit-this crime of-"
" It is certainly an unpleasant position to be
placed in," interrupted Moses sympathetically.
Indeed it is. I did once temporarily make,
up my mind and go so far as to rashly write
some poetry to one of them, offering myself. She
misconstrued the sentiment, however, as it was
in poetry, and it passed over. If it had been in
prose, she would have understood it."
" The merit of poetry nowadays does seem to
consist it its unintelligibility," said Moses.
"It's much easier to write than prose," replied
Mr. Titman. " Half tie time you don't have to
bother yourself with the ideas; it is only the
sound you must look to. There was a phrase in
mine about her having ' some one to look 7p to.'
I meant it metaphorically, of course, but she
must have applied it literally and got mixed up
its th-at way !
Thus running on, the evening cheerfully passed,
during which Moses became thoroughly acquaint-
ed with his pleasant fellow-alumnus' character.
The next morning after breakfast our hero pro-
posed quietly ascertaining t1he true condition of
the ginger-snap man. At the hotel door lie had
a momentary conversation with a wealthy banker,
who as about taking his carriage.
sirh" saidot should be etnjoimed contenttment,
sirt"osaid theinatueman in r eply to Moses inti-
tented mind is a continual feaster si. Teach 'em


32

 sir. Lok at me, sir, I am con- mouth was wide open during the interview, she
to be contentedtemade no use of it in any other way; so as there
This was certainly unanswerab end Moses, was an Irish groggery on the street floor of the
declining the other's, proffer of his vehicle, went corner house, our hero applied therein.
upon his way.    In proceeding~ through the   "It must be on the fourth flight, two doors be.
Bowery, he met Judge Pootoops, who bore the low," replied the keeper. 11Jimmy, there is an
suspicious looks of having quite recently eman- old man and crippled grral living in therfourth
ated from a refreshment room.               flight, back, an't they, at 640 ?"1
Ah sir! how   do you this morning, sir ?"  As the gentleman of leisure appealed to, named
said the latter, hastily wiping his lips and assum- Jimmy, answered in the affirmative, Moses pro-
ing an affable air.  I am glad to meet you ceeded to No. 640, which was a populous tene-
under other auspices than those of our lat meet- ment house, and successfully ascending to the-
ung, sir." tm                              fourth story opened the door of the back room.
"iThank you, indeed I am too, sir, replied There was a white-painted line across the floor,
Moses, laughing.d     I     t   s    r      and a slatternly brawling Irish woman appeared
"Cold morning," said the judge            to be quarreling with another and deformed fe-
"Yes, sir, and it is unpleasant to think of how male of mature age, about crossing it. There
many poor yet innocent people there are suffer- were also a half-dozen children of different ages
ing at this moment from its rigor," continued therein.
Moses impulsively, as they walked along to-    "ell, yoong man, what will yez have here ?"
gether.                                     asked the masculine female, as Moses paused in
"gYes," replied the judge, "you won't have to spite of himself, momentarily overcome by the
go far to -find instances of that. Down here in unpleasant. sights, sounds, and smells, of the
the New Bowery there is enough of that sort of house which had seemed to increase as he mount-
thing."                                     ed toward heaven.
I proposed visiting that region" continued "Will you have the kindness to tell me if there
Moses.p  In fact, I was upon a little errand of is a person by the name of Lear living on this
relief, sir. There is a decrepit old man with a floor? He is an oldwhite-haired man, and he
bed-ridden daughter residing  somewhere  in sells cakes in Broadway near Grand," said
Frankfort street, whom I am anxious to find."  Moses.
"Charity is a noble thing. A noble thing, "Heh 1" said the woman, looking at him with
sir," said the judge.  As a political measure, the jocose air of a person feigning deafness.
too, ive always advocated it. A good many      Does he live here ?" reiterated Moses.
votes are made, sir, in this way."             "Oh! ye-ces, but he bain't here now. He
voYes, I take great interest in these people, bain't here now, sir," continued the woman, bow-
really," Moses proceeded.                   ing and apparently attempting to imitate Moses's
"Ah !" said the judge, coughing slightly. polite manner.
"The daughter good-looking, I presume."      " And his daughter-"
"I don't know.  I have not seen her. I     " Oh! his dather! Yes. She be's out, too!
merely wish to ascertain her condition and that He be's out and she be's out ."
of her father," replied -nses.                "Ah! on their business, I presume."
" A very praiseworthy action, sir, on your "He be's a training' to-day!"
part. Charity is one of the loftiest of our in-  "Training ?" inquired Moses.
stints, and its practice is elevating, sir.  "oHe's at Bill Jones's now fornenst the stable,
"It they are worthy, I propose imteres1in   tn on the nixt block, and Bill is training  is pup by
some friends in their behalf. Perhaps you v, ould settin' him on the would man  He gets a saxpence
like to join in their relief, sir," said Moses, hon- the forenoon for it  nla
estly concluding from the judge's extollation of  "Setting a dog upon the old man!" exclaimed
the virtue of charity, that it would be a piece of Moses, incredulously.
benevolence, which would be highly appreciated Ye see, young man, being' would it don't ache
by him, to offer him the opportunity. The judge, his would legs much toh ite 'em wid the dog's
however, evidently believed himself to be al- tooth !" claimed thectonan, with a slight ap
ready sufficiently elevated, for he did not seem in- pearanee of facetious deception in her counten-
clined to acceptthis proposition. And not only ance.
this but he presently alluded to a pressing en-  "Good God! what a dreadful way of earning
gagement which he had, and bidding our hero a pittance!" soliloquized Moses.
adieu abruptly, left him at the next corner.  "And ye comto to help 'emn, young man! I ad-
Having passed the junction of the New mire yez for it! I admire yez," and here the
Bowery and Frankfort street, Moses commenced female took himi by the arm  and turned him
to makeinquirienkfortthe ancient peddler's resi- around, with strong looks expressive of that
dence by accosting a boy in the doorway of the feeling.
first large house adjacent to the corner. As the  This was a rather rough way of showing it,
child did not appear to know where he lived him- but Moses regarded the demonstration as well
self or where his father wasor whether he had meant.
any even, Moses concluded he was the neglected  "Now lave 1"' said the woman.
offspring of som  mariner addicted to long voy-  "oMa'am o"
ages, and proceeded to apply to a heavy-looking "Go out of this," continued the woman with an
girl, andpprntlrecently immigrateay who w apearance of excitement, foi she uttered a large
wending her way through the passage of the oat andtilld- lagreiht
house with a pail of water. In answer to his  "I intwendd"atocinerpdshnd
started in astoishmen at im. Tho oug 1hler thereupon she administered a powerful blow in

k'

I

I

Moses's stomach and another one instantly upon  Moses assented
his nose. The astonished Moses extricated his  "But it is not so cold as nigt bef  ls"
a rom    e grasp n backed to the door. The continued the yolwg man, as Moses ordered a
children set uip discordant yells, but the woman's couple of glasses of ale, which they drank by the
voice rose above the din, in a string of dreadful stove.  "There was a fire in Division street.
oaths amid vituperation.                     They had absolutely to throw hot water upon it.
"But, my dear madam !" roared our hero, in- heated by the steamers; yes, sir. It ran down
stiuctively retreating, as she pursued him with from the roof and froze in icicles.  A fireman
rapid and successful lunges, and endeavoring in who slipped, was frozen to one of them by the
vain to obtain a hearing from the unreasonable hair of his head. They set the roof on fire taain
being, against whose powerful onslaught he felt to melt him off, but it was no go. He was finally
he might not otherwise defend himself. His chiv- knocked off with a pole, and fell on a feather
alrous efforts at deliverance were ineffectual. He bed."
was knocked against the wall and balusters of  Moses politely expressed his incredulity at
the staircase, and pulled back and pushed for- this singular occurrence, and then proceededto
ward thereon, in what is called by military peo- thank the stranger again for his late interference
ple a running fire, until he reached the lower in his behalf. In reply, the stranger very feel-
hall. There a large mob collectedafrom the rooms ingly asked Moses if e had now fully been re-
and the street, to whom Moses, as he arranged stored to his proper condition, and at the samle
his disheveled habiliments, endeavored to ex- tine, also very feelingly put his hand into our
plain his position, while his exhausted assailant hero's coat-pocket unnoticed  by the  latter.
was recovering her breath.                   Moses again warmly thanked the stranger, and
"He's a-lyi'! the domned, sneakin' informer upon being informed by him that he ownedsome
after Mike, and tief-policeman !" indignantly ex- tenementscin the neighborhood of the old ginger-
claied she, "wid his talk about the ould man, snaps man's supposed residence, asked him in the
win there be's none, and he knows the same, the cause of charity, if he heard any thing of tre oo
blag~yard tief! They tuk me off worse befour peddler or his daughter, to send the information
and siut Inc to the Blackwell for notin'!  Domn to the Evercroft House. They shortly, parted,
him! I'll make him to be after lavin', if-if I and Moses returned to the hotel. In dressing for
gets fewer mionts for it!" roared she emphatically. dinner-, he discovered the absence of his watch
And she forthwith commenced aggressive move- and handkerchief.
ments again, which would probably have been    "Gracious !" said he.  "It must have been
highly detrimental to our hero, as the mob very taken during the altercation in the hall by see
gallantly sympathized with her, if an elegant of the crowd. I wish I had net forgotten to ask
young man, who had evidently been in a high  the address of that kinl stranger.gote mmigt re-
station of life as waiter or porter to soine debat- cover it for me !"
log society, and had a great notion of eloquence, His principal regret, however was at his failure
had not interfered with remarks which drew the to find time ginger-snap man, and although lie
attention of the mob from Moses by their unii- made subsequent inquiries, he was unable to find
'telliibili.ty.                              either the watch or the man. The baneful effect
Certainly, certainly !" said another of the of poverty in inducing fear of oppression and
crowd, who had just wedged his way in, and who tyrannous poor-houses had perhaps led tie old
seemed to be carrying all his earthly possessions, ian to deceive our hero. At any rate lie was to
real estate and live stock upon his person, "what continue a waif of society, unpicked up by amy
is the ruction here, what is the rumpus ?  What one.
are you about, Judy ? I know him well!"
"I ask for the assistance of the authorities
against this mad wonnan !" here exclaimed Moses
who had recovered himself sufficiently to be angry.        CHAPTER XIV.
Where are the police ?"
"No. Come along with me. Never mind the            TnE REv.MR. HUNKYFELL.
police. Let her go. There'd be no satisfaction. -MosEs and Mr. Bntcr paid severalsubsequent
Only a mistaken female," said the man, pulling visits to the Brooklyn youig lady. Upon the
Moses through the crowd. " Stand aside boys. fourth, by the inadverteice of the Dutch sentinel
I kmow him well.  Merely come to ask her'to at the cor y  they stumbled in upon tihe antind
Sunday-school."                             father confessor of the establishment. Mr. an-
At last, through the stranger's efforts, Moses ter defiantly determined to remain and Moses
was suffered to move away from the crowd.    considered it a fvo-abletpportmaity to survey
Why, just such a case occurred to my friend, the forces of the epemy. The aunt was already
Mayor Opdyke," continued lie to time restored in the parlor. It is quite natural for tme specta-
Moses. "XWe were walking" together in time ambmrbs tor, upon first belmolimg a solemn female of mmi-
to examine a site for a new public school. I was on usual breadth of pcison,to be disposed to tn-
the committee, when he said to me: 'Councilman, order of feei  Tho1gh Moses courteously
just look at that man's kettle!'  The man was bowed,he was so struck by the peculiarity of her
going along with a curious kettle.  He turned appearance, that he remained bent for a momnet
round - felt his favorite kettle had been affronted, or two. Time lady looked severely at her niece
pitched into the mayor, and did him considerable and friend, and the at our  ero. Miss Tonins
damage before I could arrest imn           der surely introduce  r. Wikld tohe lin
side up," continued the stranger volubly, as be  " Ah Mr. Winkfield! of whachrham    -
slipped upon time ice. "And what a cold day it her I"  Ther  a  mo     iar puse, as Mm-
is! Suppose we step into the Shades here." Winkfield appeared to bestil rather oimfused.

MR. WINKFIELD.

WINKFIELD.

33

6


34                    MRWNKFIELD.                     MR. WINKFIELD.

" Have you not yet taken means, Mr. Wink-
field," continued the laly, looking solemnly at
Moses, "to secure redemption ?"
" Madam, I hope it will be no false presump-
tion for me to imagine that some religious im-
pressions have been made upon my heart. I was
vaccinated-I m~ban baptized at a very early
period," replied Moses deferentially, though it
was evident he had not yet entirely recovered his
clearness of mind.
Here the,young lady, either thinking to take
advantage of the spiritual occupancy of her
aunt, or not being disposed to regard her pre-
sence at all, after jocosely commanding her friend
Mr. Bunter to " shut up !" at something he was
whispering to her, kissed him so heartily to en-
force her commands, that it attracted the atten-
tion of both the aunt and Mr. Winkfield.
".Wanton disregard of propriety !" said the
former, in a low voice to her niece. "The rules
of life, the precepts of Christianity, have no
effect upon you, poor child !"
"Precepts of Christianity, Aunt Jane !" said
the young lady in a lively manner. "Why ! am I
not doing as I would be done by ?"
"Scoffer," said the aunt in a shocked state,
" cease your impiety, or heaven may yet visit this
house with punishment for the deeds that are
done in it !"
"Very likely, iunt," replied the. young lady
significantly.
" But do you take any interest in the revival
of the languishing cause of vital Christianity,
Mr. Winkfield ?" continued the aunt, again turn
ing to Moses,. "Is it substantial piety you would
embrace ?"
" Ha ! ha ! My dear aunt, why not try him?'
said Susie, tittering,
" I mean, do you feel the efficacy of repent
ance, sir ?" continued the aunt, blushing and look
ing more severely than ever at her niece.
" Oh I yes, madam; but I believe in bringing
- sinners to punishment too, as well as repentance,'
replied Moses. "Though I am well aware tha
there are many conscientious, sterling Christian
like you, madam, who are so kind of heart, an
so scrupulously desirous of rightly following th
precepts of Christianity, that such a principI
seems to them- both unmerciful and wrong."
Won by Moses's compliment, the worthy lad,
smiled softly upon him, and endeavored to loo
as conscientious and sterling as possible. Whil
she was engaged in this act of amiable weakness
a gentleman of a dark-olive complexion, in a cl
real neck-cloth, an unbuttoned sack overcoat an
yarn slippers, which appeared to constitute hI
habitual undress uniform, entered the room. fH
appeared extremely well-conditioned, and wore
pleased expression, which seemed as if it had bee
recently oiled up with a glass or two of old Otar
"Ah Miss Susannah! and my friend Mr. Bunt
is here to-day," said he, smiling benignantly upo
them. "And, I beg pardon-"
"This is Mr. Winkfield, a friend of my niec
Mr. Hunkeyfell," said the aunt.
"Ah ! her friend, I see; a fine, ingenuous cou
tenance !" (Moses was scanning the speaker
face with great intensity.)  "Are you awaiting
guidance, sir?  You will excuse us, sir, but W
have no time to lose. We can not he too qui(
in exhorting or being exhorted. We are
trifling away our time within sight of perditio

And how are you occupied, sir? Upon mathema-         "and what is more, allow me to express to you
ties, poetry, history, commerce, law, or physics?"  sir-"
"The science of human nature has been my             Excuse me one moment, Mr. Winkfield," in
study, to some extent, sir," replied Moses.         terrupted the divine, who seemed to be enjoyin,
" Ah! a person of leisure and observation, and    the moment hugely. "I see that your spirit i
have property," said the clergyman, edging up       equal to your intelligence; and enlisted in th
toward Moses. "Indeed, an interesting study "       grea t cause of evangelical religion, what invi
"Yes,,sir. I flatter myself that by this means    able victory would await you."
the examples of not only the virtuous but the         "Enlisted in the cause of that religion whici
vicious, also, are presented to me in a clearer     upholds virtue, against rascality and vice, sir,.
light," replied Moses, with unconscious intention.  hope it will!" continued Moses feelingly.
"I will warrant you, now, contmiued the di-          And you feel yourself already thus enlisted
vine, smiling serenely, "that by the virtuous you  do you not ?" said the divine coolly, and with
mean such as are noted for the practices of mere    lightning glance at Susie and Mr. Bunter.
sobriety, or honesty, or industry, or humanity,       Moses started, but immediately repressed him
and that sort of thing ?"                          sel'.
"You are quite right, sir," replied Moses, some-   "If so, confide in me, sir, and I will assist yot
what astonished.                                   in your efforts, certainly," continued the divin
"Here you see it! This is one of the cases,      benignantly.
said the reverend softly, and turning to the aunt,   Moses put his hand to his brow, rubbed i
seated in rapt observation of the conversation     inanely, and rose.
near by. "This is one of the cases, ma am,             Thank you," replied he, in increasing confu
which the worthy Doddridge refers to, when he      sion.  Very well-that is-you are very kind
speaks of the subtle errors and frailties of per-  I propose to have the pleasure of calling again o
sons relying upon their perverted reason merely    Miss Tomlins and-".
to guide them."                                       Certainly," continued Mr. Hunkyfell, with
" Ah the holy man !" exclaimed the aunt,        the amusive air of a cat playing with a mouse
alluding to Doddridge, and throwing herself im-    but still with encouraging politeness. "Do, sir.
plicitly upon his authority.                       I shall be particularly happy to meet you again."
"What says that most inspired of divines ?         Moses thought he could better recover his
continued Mr. Hunkyfell. "Has he not expressly    presence of mind in the street, so he very pru
declared that the exercise of such principles is its  dently took his leave, accompanied  by Mr.
own reward, even if there be any thing more than   Bunter.
form or artifice in it?  Certainly. Yes, let iie tI wonder if he-meant any thing by that last
warn you, my friend, in accordance with that      remark 9" thought he, as he reached the pave-
glorious view, that an attention to such defective  ment.  Confound it, he seems to have found
and imperfect principles, as he calls them, is    out what we are about !"'
merely so much time lost in the great work of in-   "What do you think of the goods ?" asked
suring eternal salvation and redemption by grace!  Mr. Bunter.
- Grace!"                                             "Oh! an excellent anji original pattern !" re-
" Ah! yes !" murmured the worthy aunt, once     plied Moses, with an effort at satire in the midst
g more rolling up her eyes.                         of his abstraction.
"    Our hero could hardly contain himself at this    "But you can close him    out, can't you ?"
t perversion of the esteemed Doddridge's senti-     again inquired Mr. Bunter earnestly.
s ments. He supposed that the divine was either       "Eh?    Oh! yes.   Yes, of course," replied
d. in the habit of indulging in the intellectual    Moses mechanically but bravely. "Oh! yes."
e amusement of covertly deriding the worthy aunt's    They wended their way in silence to the ferry.
e limited comprehension, or else he enjoyed little  When they had crossed the river, Moses turned
momentary attempts at maliciously exasperating    to his friend, and they swore together some such
y those who knew better. After relieving his feel-  secret and impassioned oath as the three Swiss
k ings a little by a slight snort, and by kicking the  gentlemen once did, and then parted for the day.
e reverend around the room, in imagination, he
S, awaited further developments.
"The mighty blessing!  The glorious state of
d election, when you shall feel yourself saved from
is perdition !" continued the divine, " with which                CHAPTER XV.
c you see the wicked unbeliever is punished !"MOSES AND MR. TITMAN ATTEND AN OPERA         THE
a     Ah 1" exclaimed the lady, still in deep feeling. MOITISeA  MTHEREO NAND THE INCIDENTS THEREAT
n     Ay! , and think, madam, the justice of such                                             .
d. punishment will heighten your joy! As you see      To relieve himself from the feeling of knavish-
er other wretches writhing in consuming fire; what  ness, which the atrocity of the hypocrite had
n moments may be expended by you in the bliss of   forced upon him as a fellow-being, Moses con-
self-congratulatioAi!"                           eluded to resort to the diverting efficacy of music,
e,   This was derisive of religion itself. Moses    and in the evening, with Mr. timan, betook him-
turned red, walked to the cat in the window, and  self to the Academy. In the lobby thereof, Ital-
n- ejaculated " Rascal!" in such explosive indistinct- as, Jews, and other inhuman beings from strange
's ness that the ammal opened hr eyes i astos-     lands were chattering, ushe    erecting, and
ig meat, and apparently im bodily fear.            beaux were saunteiring; some peeping in at the
ne   "And you, Mr. Winkfield, I see that yon are    doors, others standing in the. ways--the small
ck affected by these sentiments," continued the gen-  alen with big lorgnettes and the big men with
ll tleman, with an eminently pleased air.           sniall ones. Within the auditorium there was a
n,   "Yes, sir, I am," replied Moses indignantly ,   blaze of beauty already, although the general

u,?
n-
g
is
a
I-
u
e
it
-S

illumination or conflagration had not yet taken
phice. Following an usher, our friends reached
their seats, which were undoubtedly very choice
ones, as they were sufficiently near the orchestra
to miss nonie of the finer passages of the drums,
trumpets and other delicate instruments.  The
orchestra was already in and busily engaged in
exasperating the more sensitive lovers of music
in the house with a prolonged tuning operation.
"Good gracious ! we're late !" exclaimed Mr.
Titman. "They've already commenced !"
Moses disabused his fellow dilettante's mind.
" And we are extremely fortunate I think"
continued he, "in obtaining this box. It is very
capacious; almost large enough for two more per-
sols."'
" Yes, and such a good view of the scenes. I
say, Winkfield, I can see away behind'em, through
the crack in the curtain. 0 dear I Good gra-
cious! Moses. I say! 0 dear !"
" Eh ? What is the matter?"' inquired Moses
while Mr. Titman whispered hastily in his ear.
"God bless me, you don't say so! Well, don't
look that way again !" said Moses, blushing ex-
ceedingly. "Don't look that way at all !"
"I can't help it. He's finished mending 'em and
is putting them on now."
"Very well. I am glad of it. -How full the
house is becoming. Those persons over there can
scarcely get along to their seats," -*id Moses, look.
ing around.
" Heavens! Supposing tiere was a fire to oc-
cur, how should we get out ?" said Mr. Titman,
turning very pale.
" Pshaw! An absurdity in a fire-proof building
like this !" replied Moses, looking a little nervous
himself.
This remark having assuaged Mr. Titman's fears'
he commenced to look at the splendid "landscape
with animals" about him. There was every style
of beauty, and every form of elegant maniiness.
The fair blonde with her heavenliness, and the
buxom brunette with her earthliness.  There
were belles who appeared to be in a bewitching
state of betweenity, and others who looked as
though they had escaped from the place under.
neath the earth. When Mr. Titan become be-
wildered with his inspection of this dazzling array,
he turned his lorgnette to the fresco and to the
chandelier and then suddenly reverted to the sub-
ject of his previous apprehension.
"Do you think there is any cause of alarm
Winkfield ? I-I positively smell smoke," whis-
pered he to Moses. "Suppose the house was on
fire in the basement ? 0 dear !"
" Pshaw! nonsense! Be quiet and sit still,"
replied Moses, convulsively placing his hand upon
the railing beside him, as if lie were about to
jump over the box inclosure.
" We won't try to get out now, shall we ?"
asked Mr. Titman, who was very pale.
" No, no. Alarm the entire house. Hundreds
would be crushed to death. Besides that, we
can't !"
" I feel very fatigued," again said Mr. Titman.
' Suppose we retire. I understand the piece for
he evening is very uninteresting !"
"I'll thank you to move your chairs one side,"
said a polite usher to our friends at this point.
Behind him in the alley stood six strangers.
' These gentlemen have standing room in this
ox,"

MR. WINKFIELD.                    . 85


36

MR. WINKFIELD.

" Good heaven! there is room for only three," the tonic, and badly done !" whispered this gen-
remonstrated Moses in a low tone to the usher. tleman. "Pshaw ! hear that pedal passage of the
"And do you mean to say there are six more bassoni. Such dodges are not classic; not classic at
places here ?"                               all. An extreme sharp sixth brought out in that
" Enter, gentlemen; extra night," said the usher way; Mr. Winkfield, is unbearable. Nothing more,
hurriedly.                                   I assure you, than the first derivative of a prepar-
"By heavens! this is an outrage," whispers ed suspension, with diminished harmony, the
Moses indignantly to his friend, as the party third being flattened by licentious passing notes!
squeezed into the box in front of them, entirely Miss Wagbull, the whole instrumentation of this
precluding a view of any thing but an expanse of movement is robbed by its eccentric scoring of
dress-coats,                                 energy and richness, without even allowing the
" What shall we do ?" said Mr. Titman.     harmony repose. I will not stand it," cried the
"They are foreigners, and it is the custom of musical gentleman, appearing to be deeply moved
their country," said Moses, after endeavoring in by this unhappy matter.
vain to make one of the strangers understand his  "Ahi! this is better," continued he presently,
disapproval of their proceeding.             relieving the feelings of all present with a smile.
"What shall we do ?" repeated Mr. Titman, ex- " The stage scoring of this maestro is always su-
amining in helpless fascination the two buttons of perior to his instrumentation. See! See ! The
a short-skirted dress-coat before him within two soapyrano catches it from the tenory," continued
inches of his organs of vision.  "We shan't at- he in excitement; "he from the baritony, who
tempt to expel them, will you ?"             has taken it from the basso. The orchestra will
"No, no. In any other place. But here they have it presently, but, I fear, badly !"
are protected by the laws of decorum! But we   "What is it ?" asked Mr. Titmuan in alarm.
can't sit here, we shall be suffocated  We must "The house won't catch it too, will it ?"
stand up !"                                    "It is the fugue, sir !" replied the critic, as Mr.
They stood up, and though they were still un- Titman was about suggesting that the basso should
able to obtain a glimpse of the stage, they nev- have certainly been fumigated before being allow-
ertheless congratulated themselves upon at least ed upon the stage.
being in an eligible position to hear. - They there-  "It is the development, the opening out, the
fore resignedly accepted their novel situation un- organic growth of the musical thought, first lying
til the close of the first act. At that point hav- latent in any simple phrase, according to its in-
ing some well-founded fears that they might be nate law. One snatch of melody wakes all the
desperately tempted to pick the pockets of the echoes through the realm of sound. The fugue,
front ranks for amusement, and acting under the  ir i-Nature is full of fu-ue, sirP "
inspiriting suggestion of Mr. Titman, who pro-  Mr. Titman being relieved, thought of cats in
posed returning to the hotel, and substituting for the moon-light, and nodded intelligently,
the whole affair a select performance of popular  "In the spiral growth of the plant, sir, the swell
airs by himself on his accordeon, they abandoned of the ocean, the wheat-field tossed before thd
the field to the six foreignersreached the passage breeze, the innumerable details of -figure, the
and managed to edge their way to the corridor. grouped columns, intesected arches, even the
Here they wandered about some time in loitering leaves and flowers seems driving, yearning upward,
indecision, and then observing that it was in vain and thie heavier, intricate ensemble looks light
to return at the moment into the auditorium, phi- and instinct with aspiration. It is the sense of
losophically withdrew to the refreshment-room  the finite everywhere losing and finding itself in
below, where Mr. Titman spent his time in in- the infinite. It seems to say that nothing is
specting the lithographs upon the wall, while finished; no individual form or existence com-
Moses rationally studied the Italian of his libretto pletes itself, but each and every thing relates, re-
in a corner. After lie had finished the critical fers unto the whole, and in developing its own
examination of several pages thereof, an influx of tendencies reveals a world. As a form of art,
humanity into the wine-room  suggested that a it is analogous to architecture in its-"
second intermission was taking place. With Mr.  "Certainly, to architecture," maid Mr. Titman
Titman, lie therefore returned to the house, into abruptly, " and the earnest student of that noble
which they were enabled to penetrate a short dis- art, which unites the finite necessities of man
tance. This success resulted in the discovery with the symbolic embodiment of the conceived at-
and pleasant recognition of his presence by Miss tributes of the Infinite, as lie stands before the
Wagbull, front a distant box in the second circle, magnificent Doric caryatid, typical of grandeur
to which lie and Mr. Titan at once repaired. and inposiig majesty, placed upon its stereobatic
There were two or three beaux surrounding the dado, or the glorious stylobate with its fluted hypo-
young lady, but she warmly greeted our hero, and tracielium, its fascinating triglyphs and still more
Mr.Titman, beingproperly accredited, was prompt- graceful imetopes, will probably ask of the hum-
ly seated by Mr. Wagbull. During the progress of ble author of this unpretendimg but faithful
the third act, and while the tenor was standing on treatise why-wly-"
tiptoe to reach the higher C and the basso was in  "Very true, very true.  But to revert," con-
the basement of his musical apparatus searching tinued tie critic, suppressing Mr. Titman's little
for the famous ut de poitrine, our friends had the effort at rivalry.  " Observe this movement !
exquisite pleasure of enjoying a running-criticism  How different from the former !" said lie, as a
upon the performance by one of the gentlemen mass of rich sounds filled the auditorium. "The
present, time elegant critic of the MusicalUnierse boldness now  justifies itself.  Tha, exuberant
an'd Ladies' Own Dress-Maker, without the pe- richness does not exclude cleanmess; time stmramngc-
cuniary expense of buying the newspaper. ness doesn't degenerate into -barroquec affects-
"Hum!I Fourth resolution of the dominant tion."
seventh into the harmony of the major third below 4"No ; certainly not !" said Mr. Titman,.

MR. WINKFIELD.,

37

I

"The luxuriant ornation does not smother the presumptuous; ease -of 'the latter.. In the mean
severity of the outline. Masculine, audacious time Mr. Titrhan, who was in high spirits, occu-
and seductive, the thought is clothed in the trans- pied himself in observing, with many evidences'
porting, magical drapery of profundity. And now  of mirthfulness, a stupendously dressed dowager,,
see, on a different ground play tender, pale, opa- whom he had caught sight of near by, with a
line nuances, yet with a juicy and strong color- wart on her nose. The mutual convulsions of
ing!"                                       the two at each other's appearance was succeeded
"By gracious! But go on.     Go on !" ex- by a prolonged attempt to indignantly stare each
claimed Mr. Titman.                          other out of countenance; and finally this pleas-
" The feminine element is no longer mysterious, ant reciprocity of courtesy was ended by the ap-
but advance into the foreground with such de- proach to the dowager's box of a gentleman, who
cided significance that the metaphorical manli- engaging her attention with what appeared to be
ness, though still spirited and proud, vanishes remarks made in good English, was invariably
before it dizzily, or is banished into its train! answered by her, Mr. Titman noticed, with such
Romantic, individual and peculiar, the adagio brief but classic French expressions as "Bong!
breathes the aroma of love. 'Tis the memory of wee, myshoe! certainmong! c'est-ca," etc.
a fleeting moment of life, full of poesy idealized,  "He is a French gentleman, and she, perhaps,
and spun in fine ethereal webs of harmony. wishes to delicately compliment him by paying
With nothing stiff or angularesque, momentarily to his native language the honor of using it)"
glimmers in the concerted movement the mas- said Miss Wagbull, smiling.
culine anguish, the secret tenderness which is "But look there !. Excuse me !" again ex-
carried to the meeting of the elements.  And claimed Mr. Titman, in the progress of his roving
now, repulsed, see the passion-whirlwind of the observation.  "Miss Wagbull, please look at
scherzo, the delirium through which a breathless those ladies in the parquette with the needles and
and spasmodic melody is hurrying to and fro, the balls of yarn in their librettos. Why I they
like the impetuous beating of a heart that breaks are knitting !"
and perishes in love and passion. Behold, in a  "Oh ! they are ladies from Boston, and, un-
rhythm, vague and evanescent, the rising of the doubtedly, so well acquainted with the music they
star of contemplative remorse !" are not obliged to spend-all the time in attending
"By heaven?   But can you tell me, Mr. Fidle- to it," exclaimed Miss Wagbull good-gaturedly
fadle, how you find out all this in the music ?" "I understand it is quite a common custom
continued Mr. Titman, after recovering from  his in Boston."
stupefaction.                                  Here the affable c-itic of the " Ladies' Own"
"    *se e it is not generally k-nown," replied Mr. approached once more, purposely to repay Mr
Fidlefadle, with a'smile of pity. "But the prin- Titman's attention to his late remarks by offering
ciple is simply this, sir: First, the music must to conduct the latter and Moses behind the
express certain emotions which the spectator scenes, and thus enable them  to witness the
sympathetically feels from observing the scene operation of the coming act cx machina.
and reading the libretto. Second, the various  "Certainly,"  replied  Mr. Titman.  "And
sounds, movements, passages, etc., - of which Winkfield, what say you?"
modern music is composed, are such as have     Moses excused himself, but at once persuaded
been conventionally agreed upon, shall represent Mr. Titman to accept the kindness. The curtain
these certain emotions."                     presently rose again, and our hero's attention
"Conventionally ?  Then they are not always was directed to the stage. The music was ex-
imitative of such as would naturally be made to tremely fine, and highly illustrative of the fatal
express these emotions, or arouse them?"    passion of jealousy, which the scene represented,
" Not at all, sir. Imitation ?  Heavens! it is for the composer shad not entirely succeeded in
barbarous, sir, and not allowed in any case in avoiding the " buffoonery" of nature in interpret.
modern music. And the genius of the composer ing the eccentric libretto. At the maddened
is now shown not only in the ingenuity with outburst of the entire orchestra, under the mas-
which he can avoid this natural buffbonery, so to terly direction of the perspiring leader, as the
call it, but also in the success which he meets catastrophe approached, the Conte di Luni y
with in overthrowing the old conventions."   Crazi chased the Marchesa about the stage with
"Overthrowing them ?"                      his glittering ancestral sword in one hand, and a
"Yes, sir, and grandly dictating himself what fatal goblet in the other. Anon, with the shriek
people must be pleased with !" of the piccolo, the unfortunate Marchioness re.
" Thank you. I see it all now," replied Tit- ceives the catastrophic blow and rushes to her
man, secretly resolving to establish himself in dressing-room to die and go home. Then, with
Dibbletown as a great musical genius, by apply- the demoniac tittering of the violins, the widower
ing these principles to his future performances reads a short account of the toxical properties of
with the accordeon. The act having closed, the the bowl, and drinks from it; with an ascending
critic concluded to take himself off, leaving Mr. blare of the trumpet, throws it to the ceiling; and,
Titman entirely overcome by his eloquence in with a rude resonance of the druni, precipitates
musical matters,.                            himself uponithe floor, where he dies without even
During the subsequent intermission a pleasant, a verbal willafter a short and exciting attempt at
gentlemanly young fellow entered the box, and the difficult gymnastic exercise of recovering an
occupied Miss Wagbull's attention for a few mo- erect posture with stiffened legs and arms.
ments. Moses listened to Mr. Wagbull osten- While the unfortunate Count was engaged in thus
sibly and speculated upon the possible causes throwing himself about upon the floor of the
which had induced the young lady to receive this stage, a cry of distress was heard at one
new-coiner with the warmth she had shown, and side thereof, in the flies, and simultaneously a
also made some very uneasy reflections upon the person, clinging with fear to a rope, swung across


MR. WINKFIELD.

the stagetwenty feet in the air, and in full view
of the house,. As he swung back -again he con-
vulsively drew up his person to the rope, appar-
ently in terror at the distance\ from the floor, and
wildly called for help. At the third vibration,
and while the attention of thb entire house was
becoming directed to this singular spectacle,.and
the enthusiastic tenor rose to resume his dying
Throes on a safer part of the stage, a circular
movement was given to the rope by the efforts of
some one in the scenery trying to catch the
'flying object, and to the observation of the
bewildered and alarmed Moses was turned the
terrified countenance of Mr. Titman.
A roar of applause from a party of sailors in
the amphitheatre drowned the latter's frantic
enunciation of his inability to hold on much
longer. The mariners, who had strayed into the
theatre and patiently sat out the fiddling, thought
they were going to be rewarded with a grand
acrobatic display; taking-Mr. Titman's frantic
posturing, together with the tossing of the tenor
below, to be a commencement of the chief per-
formances of the evening.
"Place a mattress or something beneath him!"
cried Moses, starting in alarm for his friend.
"Dear me! he'll break his neck!"
Here the musical critic could be plainly seen in
the wing humanely making another effort to grasp
his unfortunate acquaintance, as another oscilla-
tion took place.
Amid the confusion of the audience, the alarm
of the ladies, the jeers of the more unfeeling, and
the rude noises of encouragement by the sailors
and others above, the curtain fortunately fell;
and a moment thereafter Moses heard a noise
disagreeably indicating that something else behind
it had also undoubtedly fallen. He hurried to
the stage with Mr. Wagbull. They there found
Mr. Titman, surrounded by counts, duchesses, and
scene-shifters, evidently mor4 affected by the
sympathy which a tall young lady of the chorus
was endeavoring to bestow upn him in mingled
Dutch and English, than by the harm which had
been done to his person.
"You see, I was walking about up there, and
looking down on the stage, when I leaned against
what I thought was a wall," explained he to
Moses, as they returned to Miss Wagbull's box.
"It was only a part of a scene. It was fortunate
I caught the rope, or I would have broken my
head or done something disagreeable."
Moses's dark feelings had been dissipated by
the mimic excitements of the scene; and if they
had not thus been, they would have been certain-
ly by the real one which he now experienced, of
placing Miss Wagbull's cloak about her, and
waiting upon her to her carriage. It was proba-
bly owing to his lofty feelings at this extreme
honor, that Titman could induce him, only by coun-
terfeiting painful thirst, to enter a lager-beer shop
on the way homeward. While therein, also, the lit-
tle gentleman got into difficulty with Moses, from
having been so much carried away by the Saxo-
nian beauty of the attendant girl, as to kiss her.
As he appeared somewhat penitent, however,
during Moses's lecture, the latter relented, and
acknowledging that the act was perhaps allow-
able "as a mere tribute to beauty," seemed to
Mr. Titman to manifest an intention of following
his example. Upon arriving at the hotel, the lat-
ter expressed a strong desire for a cold fowl, and

thereupon Moses, still under the pressure of his
elevated feelings, became indignant again, but
after he had shown a slight sympathy with Mr.
Titman's anger at the refectory being closed, the
two at last bade each other adieu and retired for
the night, Moses to dream of Miss Wagbull, and
Mr. Titman of a bluelit apotheosis in theatrical
style, with the tall young girl of the chorus.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE REV. MR. HUNKYFELL PLEASANTLY MAKES TIHE
HANDSOME OFFER TO MR. WINKFIELD OF A GEN-
ERAL BUSINESS PARTNERSHIP. THE PROGRESS OF
THE BUNTER DIFFICULTY.
As Moses gained the Union Park pavement, in
turning from the Broadway promenade the next
afternoon, some one, overtaking him, placed a
hand upon his shoulder. Moses shuddered and
turned around at the light velvety touch. It was
the persons to whom he instinctively attributed
it, the reverend Mr. Hunkyfell. Our hero first
proposed wringing the reverend gentleman's nose
and proceeding quietly upon his way. He then
determined upon the better course of acceding to
the divine's intimated desire to speak with him.
"My dear young man," said Mr. Hunkyfell, as
he noticed Moses's avoidance of his proffered
hand, " excuse me, am I right in fearing that not-
withstanding your excellent impartiality of judg-
ment, I detected some prejudice upon your part
toward me in our last intercourse ?"
"You are," replied Moses.
" And must I fear, young man, that notwith-
standing the acute appreciation of character,
which you appear proud of possessing, that pre-
judice is one likely to last ?"
"It is very likely to do so," said Moses, endea-
voring in vain to conceal his antipathy.
"And it is impossible for me to.remove that
prejudice ?"
" Utterly," replied Moses again involuntarily.
"Alas ! then it is a vain hope which I have
cherished.  Do you know, now, I have really
cherished a hope since I met you, and it was my
present object in accosting you, of being assisted
by that judgment and by the rest of your ener-
gies, in the noble field of pursuits to which it has
been my pleasant lot to be called," continued the
divine. "You are a gentleman of leisure. You
have property and an ingenuous countenance."
i "Sir !" said Moses ferociously.
The reverend gentleman drew away instinctive-
ly, but presently smiled. He seemed to consider
it himself a rather heavy joke.
"Then you hate me ?" asked he earnestly.
"No, I merely despise you," replied Moses be-
nevolently.
"Your frankness is certainly affable," said the
other. "There-is some virtue in your character,
though I must say that part of it is not what has
particularly attracted my attention."
"Very likely," replied Moses, "that part of
any one's character is not particularly attractive
to you."
"My dear sir, I allude to it not in petty irrita-
*tion, but rather in sorrow, as, ahem! you appear
*to enjoy the esteem, ay, even the friendship, of a

Fw

MR. WINKFIELD.

member of the family whose interest I have con- in the matter, iry 'oung friend," replied the
ceived it my duty to cherish." divine, smiling affably upon Moses.
Moses here suddenly inanifested an increase of "And what is the sum in this matter, to which
interest in the conversation, which the keen-eyed you consider yourself entitled as spiritual adviser
gentleman did not fail immediately to observe, as of this family ?" asked Moses.
ie continued, in malicious amusement,        "Her own fortune is some forty thousand dol-
" However, as my society appears absolutely lars. What do you say to thirty-nine thousand ?"
detrimental to your temper, perhaps I had better "Thirty-nine thousand !"
not try it with further conversation."         "Well, then, twenty thousand," continued the
"Proceed, sir, proceed; it is only because you divine, acknowledging by this modification that
have alluded to that estimable family, that your lie had been a little too facetious. "This would
conversation becomes interesting to me," said enable me to increase my charities in certain
Moc, assuming an aip of indifference,       quarters at once, which I have long been desirous
Alh! I see you have already dismissed Your of."
ill-will, and are even inclined to-be plain with me.  "But what if I should use my persuasion to
I assure you, in return, for the pleasant manner prevent that young lady's consent to granting you
in which you have started on the subject which is a dollar, sir, and what if I should still further
interesting to us both, that I will cheerfully use proceed to Mr. Tomlins himself and reveal to him
my power, as far as consistent with my conscien- this iniquitous conversation ?" said Moses breath-
tiois duty, to agree with you thereon.  Your ing very short in his indignation.  "I rather
friend, Mr. Bunter; is desirous of being united think I should be likely to impart to that gentle-
with Miss Susannah."  .                      man a little of the unpardonable prejudice which
"le is," said Moses, somewhat astonished at you so correctly observed in me."
this plain understanding of affairs.           " My dear sir," exclaimed the other with open
"And he has your sympathies and efforts in laughter, "let me kindly warn you, my young
his behalf ' continued the divine.           friend, not to prejudice the cause of your friend
" If lie has my sympathies, my efforts will cer- by such foolish plans. Mr. Tomlins is too well
tainly follow them," replied Moses proudly.  satisfied with the piety of my wishes, to render it
"Thank you,n' said tihe reverend gentleman necessary for me to even notice such a piece of
with the satirical air of being initernally convulsed malice on your part," continued he putting on a
with laughter. "Yes, I thank you, sir, for your sanctified air.
frankness. But why should you and I be au-      "Well, sir, you studied Tartuffe at an early
tagonists ?" exclaimed he presently, and apparent- age, no doubt," said Moses, "and by a long course
ly in a very sincere way. "My dear sir,,I am  of villainy and cunning since, you think you are
quick ii my appreciation of human qualities. A  admirably fitted for the part in real life. I must
union in personal interest of such attributes as agree with you. You are. It is not for me to
yours aid mine would be sure to be crowned with decide whether your proposition will be enter.
all the worldly success that either of us could wish. tained. But take notice," continued our hero,
Why may n-)t such a friendship and'compact be losing his temper, "that while I shall present it
at once-",                                   to them, I shall use my best efforts to dissuade
" You had better drop that subject," interrupt- them from any such concessions to villainy."
ed Moses.                                      "AhiI I thought you would conclude it to be
"I suppose I must," said the other hesitatingly, the best way," said the other
and gazing at Moses earnestly. "Well, well, to  "And what is more, I shall not rest in oppos.
revert to our other topic," continued he, softly ing you in this alone, sir; but I shall continue
rubbing his hands. "You are aware, I observe, my efforts until I shall see an injured family en-
that my consent is necessary to the marriage you tirely rescued from  the clutches of such in-
are in hopes of consummating."               famy, such rascally. unmitigated, and scoun-
"So I- perceive. The method in which you drelly-"
have obtained this power is an example of the  "My dear sir! There is no necessity of such
purity of your religion as well as of the vigor of heat, I assure you. Pray let me calm you. I
your understanding."                         really entertain the highest wishes for your own
"Thank you," said the reverend gentleman welfare. I do not desire any antagonism with
bowing affectedly. "But you pay my understand- you," continued the gentleman, again offering his
ing a tribute which is perhaps undeserved. The indignant enemy the olive branch. " Would my
piety of Mr. Tomlins and his sister, sir, has in- duty to my calling and my charitable resolves
duced them to thrust a share of the influence of allow me, I assure you, that I would even defer
their estate and standing upon me-with the my wishes to yours."
same religious feeling, I have been induced to ac-  Moses looked at him in unutterable scorn.
cept the onerous charge. There are many causes "I suppose as you have become interested in
in which that influence must be exercised, and no this matter, I shall soon have the pleasure of con-
part of it must be lost."                    versing again ivith you upon it. I shall, shall I
"Ai! I think I understand you," said Moses. not ?" said the clergyman significantly.
"As you are a married man, and notwithstanding  "Very well ! very well I" continued Moses in
your wife may die at any moment in the institu- a subdued way.
tion to which she has retreated from the cares of  " Pardon me. I must now part from you, my
this world, your interest in the disposal of Miss dear fieid.  With God's blessing I leave you I
Toilins's hand arises chiefly from a desire that Adieul",replied the other.
her fortune, or at -least a part of it, shall subse- " The only way to fight the devil is with fire,"
qiiently remain subject to your disposal. Am I said Moses as he continued upon his way utterly
right 2" .absorbed in this interesting matter. " If I could
" You are certainly possessed of great clearness thwart tnis miserable fellow and relieve that truly


40

MR WINKELD.MR. WINKFIELD.

suffering family from his machinationsI might c
afford to lie once.or twice."                f
Here a thought struck him, and he became lost
in meditation.
CHAPTER XVII.
Ml. TOPLADY RETURNS WITH RENEWED CONFIDENCE
TO THE CITY, AND RELATES TO HIS NEPHEW THE
CAUSES OF THE DIFFICULTY WHICH LED TO HIs
LATE FLIGHT FROM IT.
MOSES'S previous life of retirement-and medita-
tion had not educated him by any means to the
vivacity of a hotel. Those hours which since
infancy he had been taught to devote either tov
silent study or the natural recuperation of his
physique, he observed were here especially select- 1
ed for the ebullitions of animal activity. Did heI
sit down in his room at night to meditate uponI
the immortality of the soul, or the nature of
friendship, his reflections were set to the liveliest
kind of terpsichorean music. Or was he quietlyI
composing himself ere he closed his eyes in-
slumber to prove the uselessness of the passions
compared with reason, his theory and practiceI
were presently destroyed by the maddening
sounds of a gentleman with a baritone voiceI
doing the Standard-Bearer in the principal parlor,I
or by tie equally irritating hum of a public ban-
quet in tie dining-hall. After a brief consulta-
tion with the clerk of the hotel and Mr. Toplady,
whose faith in the climate of the city had been
sufficiently restored to cause, his recent return
from a protracted- sojourn at a country hydropa-
thic establishment, Moses resolved to answer
one of the numerous newspaper advertisements,
in which " all the comforts of a home " are pro-
mised to single gentlemen ; the latter being sup-
posed, as they do not enjoy -the domesticity of
married life, not to know and consequently to be
both surprised and. delighted to learn, that such
comforts often consist, of two boys, three girls,
and the dear little infant in the baby-jumper.
Our hero was fortunate enough to discover, how-
ever, in the quiet and clean little Banks street,
a young married couple, who having under the
usual insane impulses, hired a house which was
too large for them, by the whole second floor,
now gave evidences of returning reason, by ad-
vertising the same to be rented to some gentle-
manly person who could assure them, by refer-
ences, of his possession of the culture requisite
to a proper appreciation of a second story. The
apartments were delightful. The sleeping-room
at the back looked out upon a little summer
house, which needed only the coming summer to
make it beautiful, and his front parlor command-
ed a view of a sedate old Quaker lady in a de-
lightful cap constantly at the second story win-
dow opposite, pleasant at any season of the
year.
The young couple themselves appeared to pos-
aess all the charming simplicity which belongs to
youthful inexperience, and in addition to that the
equally charming duplicity of being coqipletely
bound up in each other. After a scrutiny of our
hero's person, references, and remarks, somewhat
prolonged by frequent delicate withdrawals for
Consultation thereupon, he was finally ac-

cepted by them as an occupant of their second
light. He soon removed to these spacious and
pleasant apartments to which be was frequently
accompanied by Mr. Titman and Mr. Toplady
after dinner.  The latter almost immediately
upon his return to the city, was waited upon at
his office by a high municipal authority and in-
vited to meet a party of sixty other citizens on a
jury-panel of six weeks. Having very properly
suggested to the judge, that he might possibly
come under the provision of the statute, exclud-
ing lawyers from juries, from the fact of his hay-
ing studied law at an early period of his life and
having expressed the benevolent wish not to pre-
judice any of the cases thereby, the court re-
lieved him of his scruples, by stating that it
"guessed he did not know enough law to hurt
any thing," whereupon, after making a nenergetic
attempt to appear as if the whole assemblage
hadn't heard the remark, he was duly sworn in.
What with "amicable suits," in which charges of
perjury and bribery were made on both sides,
with ninety-fifth trials of cases of " ancient-lights,"
which all the lights of the bar could not render
luminous, with the brilliant charges by the judge
at the jury, and with the successive appeals to the
obstinate twelfth man, Mr. Toplady was generally
too tired for the first week to seek other amuse-
ment in the evening than slumber. Finally,
however, in passing an evening in Banks street,
he was enabled to explain confidentially the
events which had caused his temporary sojourn
in the country; and we will give his narrative here
as concisely as possible.
"1You know, Moses," said he, "Mrs. Fasher-
lidg e's affair was not quite so lively as I wished
it : so I thought I would go to another one, the
first of Colonel Sparks's, without you. Just to
try it, and see whether their next would do for
you. I went up to Sparks's and found a crowd
of street idlers about the canvas passage at the
door, making great sport of it. The winds were
making sport of it too, for I could scarcely crawl
through it. I got in, and in the dressing-room
was personally affronted by the fellow presiding
there, who objected to the color of my cravat,
the scoundrel. However, he finally permitted
me to go below, and I was announced, with a
great flourish by the German musicians with their
instruments. Sparks haa a great idea of these
things, and has a little orchestra nest for his music
up on the side of the wall, with a little door and
secret passage-way and all that. Every guest
that entered was trumpeted In this way, and it
made some sensation to commence with. Sparks
and his wife were seated in great solemnity like
a king and queen, on a sort of raised dais at one
end of the parlors. I was led up to them and
paid my homage to them as if they really were
regal personages, and so did all the others. And
then they turned me loose upon society. I saw
some people I knew, and was about going to
them, when I heard the doorkeeper's voice again.
' Mr. Joab Sackett, wholesale dealer in pins and
needles, 67 Courtlandt street, no goods at retail.
J. Sackett and lady,' he roared out.
" Ha I ha I Sackett had made a mistake, and
handed the faithful domestic his business card,
and the fel1w read the whole of it ! I know
Sackett very well. He is a thick-headed little fel-
low,but his wife thinks a good deal of him, and they
were very agreeable through the whole evening.

41

I

cILIU ous epressns o1 oL - sOUwoun1 s s eath !,
he'd got out of some historical novel. le had
obtained possession of a dish of mushrooms;
and when Joab, who was looking for something,
came along his way, he thrust the dishunder his
nose, and I heard him say, 'Here, eat these.
These are what you are looking for ;' and then,
in an undertone, 'Very few constitutions can
stand them; they'll made him darned sick!1'
"'Oh! thank you,' Joab said looking up at
him; 'wouldn't you like 'em ?'
"' No, sir-r-r!' cried the other fiercely.
"'1Hey?' said Joab starting; and here, if you
had heard the encounter between them, you
would have said the fellow was a fool. I vish I
could remember the exact words he next mut-
tered. It was something about there being in
him the glorious promise of youth, beauty, and
an opening future, and in Joab the hard reality
of want, ugliness, ignominy, and despair; and ie
wound up by saying, '0 gods of the difficult
Delphos! I shrug my shoulders, ha! ha!'
"'I beg pardon,' Joab replied. le was much
confused by-this incomprehensible stuff.  'Can I
do any thing for you? Has any thing disagreed
with you?' asked he.
"''Philosophers have argued for centuries!'
the stranger went on as if he was in a soliloquy.
'Let them turn to the revealed Logos for a solu-
tion. To feel that this beautiful creature once
loved me ! Be still, my soul!  Cool off,i my
brain!  Is there no flux in our agony ?  Ha!
ha! '  These were his very words, Moses; I
remember them. Joab appeared in great com-
passion, and asked hin again if he was unwell.
' Ha! the proud ass's contumely!' continued the
fellow in the same way, and then lie presently
came personally at Joab: ' You conversed with
her?' said he.
"' Whom?' cried Joab.
"'Miss Pottle.
"'Yes,' said Joab, trying to ingratiate the
stranger by slapping him on the back: 'she
told me a story about one of the old gods run-
ning off with a girl-' "
" Jupiter and Semele, probably," interrupted
Moses, laughing.

Mrs.Sackett immediately insisted upon my society, no doubt bolted precipitately for the table. I
and I enjoyed myself in hers, and that of some have since learned he was a New-Haven tutor, a
other acquaintancet very much ; I didn't think lover of six years' standing of Miss Pottle, and
I should be so pleased as I was. I was even in- was then laboring under her displeasure for
duced to do more than the usual dancing. By something he had or had not done, and she
the way, there is a newly imported set called the would have nothing to do with or say to him.
Schleswig, which I advise you to avoid, Moses; If there was any deviltry in Joab, it would be
I broke one of my suspenders in it, and it is al- likely to be shown, when there was food in
together too unsatisfactory, too intricate. We prospect. He appeared quite gallant in hand-
had music, too, and by gracious, an unusual lite- ing Miss Pottle down and assisting her at the
rary recitation by a Miss Pottle, of New-Haven, table, and listened to her classic stories ahd
daughter -of Professor Fottle, an original poem  allusions with the air of a dashing young fellow
she wrote about a feat performedin the Crimean deep in a flirtation. The Byronic nincompoop,
war by an English soldier named Warmeastle, in for I can't conscientiously call him by a better
which he took up a cannon bodily and ran off name, as you will see, worked his way near them,
with it from the enemy who were trying to get it listened a moment and then violently crushed
away from  him. The incident was no doubt a the sandwich he had in his hand and commenced
heavy joke upon the part of some English news- walking about in furious abstraction. le once
paper." came near me, and I heard him.:Tepeating those
"The poem was not heavy too, in consequence, lines of Byron:
was it ?" interrupted Moses, who was also dis       'There never yet was tuman power
posed to unbend for the moment. Which could evade, it'unforgiven,
"Oh! no. It was considered very fine !" re-        The patient search and vigil Iong
sumed Mr. Toplady. "Let me see, I remember           Of him who treasures up a wrong.'
the first verse. It struck me by a very striking And he followed up the quotation witlimore ri-
poetic liense n it, taken with the warrior's name:             n4d.e'                  1
diUWUU ul  i                   Uf 'ILG d

'Now see yon foe; it seems but a mouse
Stealing in the horizon, said brave Hothouse.
Steady, boys, steady, with your match be ready!
And with a poke, amid the smoke,
Gunners aIram home, ram hone ,
"She had to call the heroic Warmaastle Hot-
house, not to spoil the line, I suppose. However,
the chief merit of the poem was in the. other
verses, which I can't remember."
"I should think so"interrupted Moses sig-
nificantly.            ig
"By the way, the poetess had something to
do with the events I commenced to explain to
you, and that reminds me. You know, Joab,
that is, Sackett, is one of the stupidest men*
imaginable, and it's for that very reason, his wife
tries to make out he is talented and full of iis-
chief. She is perpetually accusing him in public
of amusing himself by cheating at cards, or look-
ing after othet women, or something else, when
he hasn't the slightest idea of the sort. I noticed
that long ago, when I first knew them. She
wishes to have other women believe she has got
a brilliant dashing fellow for a husband, you
know. Poor Joab, he is good-hearted, and is a
fair business man, but that is about all. Well,
he was conversing with Miss Pottle, and we could
see him from the card-room. So Mrs. Sackett
couldn't refrain from directing the attention of
all of us toward him, and in a loud voice intimat-
ed that he was engaged in a rascally attempt to
win Miss Pottle's affections, and she knew  it!
While she was talking in tltis manner and feign-
ing a desire to expose him on the spot to the
lady, a man near by us-ie was a gloomy-looking
fellow, a nitiny with a Byron collar, I had noticed
several times before hanging about the staircase,
or stalking about the' rooms,'having nothing to
say to any body-lie started convulsively, and
contorting his face with the hardest kind of gri-
mace, said!: " Ha! deathh !'  He then disap-
peared, but soon came back, evidently to listen
to what else might be said. Mrs. Sackett kept at
it, and hearing it again, lie grasped his long hair
and gave it a prolonged and vigorous twist, but,
the supper being then announced, he disappeared,

MR. WINKFIELD.


42                                MR. WINKFIELD.
" ' Running off with a girl,' said Joab, ' and  "'Good God! no. I may have-have squeezed
I believe she'd like to be run away with, too ; her hand-a little, when I handed her down to
ha! ha!   I've good notion to surprise my wife, supper !' he replied in his Vgony, and he here
and do it.'                                 made some propositions to me Vhich I thought
" At this the fellow placed his nose in contact on the whole to be rather cool for the moment,
with Joab's, and exclaimed, 'Miserable robber but which I have since benevolently attributed to
of hen roosts and caitiff! you'll hear from me !' the increase of his distraction at the prospect
" Joab started back to prevent strabismus. of the duel. He proposed that, as I had occa-
The other at this cried, 'Ha? Vengeance !' and Eionally expressed myself disgusted with life, I
rushing abruptly to the staircase, disappeared should fight this duel for him, and not only that,
above. Joab here came at me and appealed to but as I was a man of property, I should make a
me about him. He thought he was mad. I told will in his favor before going to the field. I was
him I had noticed the fellow before, and con- forced to decline both these remarkable proposi-
cluded he was simply drunk.                 tions, Moses; but, as his agitation was getting
"'Yes, there was a dreadful smell of rum  the better of him again, I endeavored to soothe
punch about him,' said Joab.   'The lemons him, by stating that he was certainly authorized
must have soured his temper. Ha! ha !'      to take no notice of the letter, coming irregu-
" We went up-stairs together, and the whole larly as it did through the penny-post, and I also
point comes now. I have been thus particular proffered my services as a friend to stand by him
with previous points, this conversation, etc., that in the matter, and assist him out of it. He went
you might fully understand what a fool the fel- off, and the next day both he and Bwifter were
low was then and was subsequently, confound arrested and bound over to keep the peace
him! We were just sauntering along the hall, against each other, by that learned Jefferson
and I was making a remark to Joab about enter- Market judge, Pootoops. Now who do you sup-
ing the drawing-room and reviving an old coun- pose caused the arrest?  Sackett probably in-
try dance, when he was abruptly felled to the tended to intorin the police of the matter, but
floor by the bodily precipitation, of this party what do you think of it, it wasn't he, Moses.
upon him, over the balusters of the grand'stair- The challenger himself did it before him! He,
case, to which we were adjacent. It was un- the warlike lover, after he sent the challenge,
doubtedly an accident. The fellow had evidently became seared, either at the probabilities of fall-
been gratifying his imagination by reaching after ing in the combat, or of being hung for murder
Joab's hair, when lie reached too Far and fell over. according to the statutes as the survivor. At
We restored Joab, but the booby disappeared. any rate, he took himself in person to the police
And when we 4ad got through with the evening, office, and hurriedly insisted upon being himself
thinking the a air a pretty good joke, we caine at once restrained from his deadly purpose by be-
away also. Now two or three days after that ing put under bonds, and after statimg the cause
soirse, Sackett came into my office in a rather of the quarrel to be an attempt at sediciiig and
lively manner, with a note in his hand, which he running away with a young lady, of which he
had received through the penny-post. It was a gave an exaggerated description, demanded, as
challenge to mortal combat, and was signed J. a mere secondary matter, of course, that Joab
Sokenuts Bwifter.                           should be put in a similar tight place."
"'knBwifter ! who is he?' asked I, for I didn't  "But how were you arrested ?" asked Moses,
know his liame.                             as his uncle paused. "That is what interests me
"'My dear friend, Toplady, you remember in the matter. Was it as a second of the pro-
that party who fell over the stair upon me at posed duelo  N
Sparks's?' replied Joab.'This is the man.      "Eh? no. Not at all."
He is an escaped madman T     Good heaven!     "Well, how was it then ?" asked Moses, in
Look at the dreadful method in his madness; some surprise.
through the pemmy-post! No apology -will be "No, not as second at all. The fact was,"
received, and I am permitted a day to arrange continued Mr. Toplady, hesitating somewhat, "I
my-earthly affairs before going to the field. had become slightly fatigued with Miss Pottle's
Good Godt   a                               conversation at the party, and asked Joab to re-
Go'But what is it for ?' I asked. 'The note lieve me, you know, and pay attention to her,
says: For thirteen insults received at Mrs. inadvertently intimating it -would be a personal
Sparks's reception. Also to put a stop to your favor to me. In the cross-questioning lie was
feral designs.'                         "subjected to by Pootoops, Joab was led into a con-
ineIdon't know, unless lie hurt himself in thir- fftsed confession that he hadaattempteda small
teen places when he fell over the balustrade, and flirtation with Miss Pottle, and when thai  was
insanelybelieves I put myself utder there on put down against him, in order to get out of it, he
purpose t injure him.'                     attempted to say it was at another party's sug.
pI referred to the note again.  'He intimates gestion, and that he did it all on account and in
e will asasinate you, if you don't fiht him  behalf of a single gentleman, who was violenitly
said1 .                                      in love with her-to wit, me!"
"'GoodGod! yes. Hadn't I better inform on  d'What do you mean by Toplady's account?
him?' asked Sackett, becoming more agitated. asked the judge. 9Why didn't he attend to his
I told him I didn't know how that would look lovemaingew el?   so  tr omeibl coing
after an accusation of insult by the challenge.  cocte  btenyuohfrfrclyarig
"' But good God! ,think of it, my dear sir I the feale off?'reldJobwhwaaths
am a man of family!' said he, pulling his hair wI dn't kn'I reliqued bhr ad atces
for the moment in anguish,                   wit' d.I -I meeysuee         e   adoe
"'You did not trifle with Miss Pottle?' I asked, and' SedfrTp-"   'raedtejde
'Take improper-'                              t   edfrTpay'rae                h    ug

J     i
L

MR. WINKFIELD.                                     43
peremptorily; and Joab says he alluded to me as should reward her champions, Moses with Mr.
the chief rascal in the affair, and went on to Bunter might well include in the plan, the pur.
say, 'Women again! I'll see whether this ab- pose of being near to assist in the ceremony of
ducting, fascinating, and intriguing after 'em can't visiting upon the exposed impostor the first pun-
be put a stop to! I'll make this scoundrel Top- ishinent he would seem to merit, of being promptly
lady's name ring'                          and conspicuously expelled from  the Tomlins
It was upon the pleasant charge of an at- mansion by its owner. With spirit, Susie set
tempt at forcible abduction, therefore, that I was about removing the temporary difficulty of her
arrested, and I have no doubt he would have made father's reluctance in becoming a party to the
my name resound pretty sonorously in it, if I had scheme.  Mr. Tomlins, as a father, sincerely
not lost my way in going to the police-office."  loved his daughter. But lie was a man of robust
"Ah! you lost your way ?" repeated Moses, weaknesses. As principal ancient of the First Con-
looking at his uncle.                       gregational Church, his piety had truly become a
Yes," said the latter. "Lucky; wasn't it ?" weakness. When Susie disclosed to him the ad-
Very," replied Moses.                    vances toward a flirtation which the reverend
"Ha ! ha ! and the funniest part of the affair Mr. Hunkyfell had made, we may say in mercan-
is, that Mrs. Sackett begins to believe Joab really tile terms, that he refused flatly to accept such
is a Don Giovanni. Bhe scarcely permits him to a draft upon his belief and his feelings.
speak to a woman now ,                         " A senseless imputation. It is impossible !'
"I.a! h,! on the whole it was a rather curi- said the exercised parent and deacon. "He him-
ous affair, concluded Moses, rising to bid his self would have called down upon his own head
uncle adieu for the evenig,                 the avenging lightning of HeavenI"
(LHe might have done that also, and have f4lt
safr enough, as he knows the mansion is very ex-
celtently insulated,"said Susie.
CHAPTER XVIII.                    " The idle jest again!" replied her parent,
CONTAINING THE GRAND COMBAT WITH THE HYPO- sternly. "tGirl, this is perhaps an evil represent-
cRITE, AND ITS RESULT.           action to me, caused by your worldly motives."
a. WIN      LD flt assured that te bta        If yo t    believe me na*your daughter,
method of rendering his efdrts beneficial to his  a woman living in decent Brooklyn society, I
fenhdoMrBnerngwaistdireciemtowardinsist you shall," continued Susie, with spirit.
friend, Mr. Bunter, was to direct then toward  46I have seen too much of your unfilial disre-
an object, which seemed also his duty as a vin- spect to me in your obstinate prejudice in favor
dicator of the interests of society, that of com- of society, against My wishes for your religious
pletely dispossessing the Brooklyn family of the safety  af
reverend Mr. Hunkyfell's society and influence.  I am not unfilial, papa, replied Susie. "And
Though strengthened With the hope of promptly I respect your piety, for I know it is sincere ; but
succeeding, he was well aware that if lie failed in don't let it lead you to be a fool any longer."
a first attempt, his subsequent efforts would likely  "Fool, miss!IDo you impiously accuse me-
be useless, and perhaps detrimental to both the tho head deacon of the First Congregational
interests of Mr. Bunter and those of society. le, Church, and the author of your existence-of-
therefore, proceeded cautiously in the matter, az of mental weakness !" exclaimed the worthy man
a wrestler about to try his strength in a grand in a rage.
single combat with a powerful iitaronist. His   "I do," said Susie, with argumentative candor.
relations with the aunt were extremely favorable; "I ami afraid your head is wrong, for your
for, through a little pleasantry of Miss Suie, the heart iainot, to permit thi man to play upon you."
worthy lady was momentarily invested with the  "Child, I say you have misconstrued his mo-
somewhat serious hallucination that otrB  -ero had tives, if not his actions," said the deacon pettish-
become violently enamored of her. Bt the im- ly. "Every thing is now perverted in your view,
portant point to be attained was to annihilate the by the infatuation you have conceived for that
c       .h . Toms, usie's   ther, re- trifler, youig Bunter. I understand that lie has
posed in the divine. As micre personal inter- been here again, notwithstanding my final con-
course, unless strengthened by a long friendship, versation with him. Let him not come in ily
aould not effect this Moses invented a speedy presence again. Remember, no child of mimie
and promising plan of accomplishment-a simple shall be united to Catholics, Swedenborgians,
aud brilliant counter-plot-tiough one, perhaps, Jews, Socinians, or triflers who can go to sleep
aicri ie0 wouldnot have suggested, but for the within the sacred portals of the sanctuary, and
apparent necessity of contestingr Satan with igrne- not only that, but-
)uv materials.t e proposed that Susie should  "Pshaw! I have seen you sound asleep fifty
reveal to her father the same interesting facts times during the sermons, and as for Tom's
%hiich she had confided to him, illustrating the howling, he never would have done it, ifI hadn't
rue character of the wolf of the household. stuck a pin in his arm."
The latter, upon leaving the library, had sought  "Do you accuse me, first deacon of the Con.
further interviewawith her.'That ntervie vgregatiomal, and author of your days, of-of
.iould be granted also. The father sliould then slumbering in church T" cried the p~areut, exer-
be imduced to secrete himself within sight ad cised again.
hearing thereof. This was all; but it seemed " I do," replied Susie, who had the decided
nevitable that the reverend gentlemans would advantage of him in temper.- " But as to the
hus be caught in a toil uf his owvn spinning, and conduct of Mr. Hunkyfell, papa, I think I have
gnsominmously spurned from the household, the not mistakemi. It may have been ai serious flirt-
anctuary amid the presence of honorable men. ation, commenced by him for the spiritual wvel-
Virtue, at last, would be triumphant, and if she fare of his best friend's daughter; as it may be


44                               MR. WINKEIELD.
unchristian in me not to avail myself of his covered this virtue in me. 0 Mr. Hunkyfell!
efforts, I have arranged for him the private in- have you thought so little of me heretofore ?"'
terview which he intimated we might have in the said Susie, with the kind intention of assisting
conservatory, at an hour rendered convenient by the gentleman forward a little.
aunt's customary nap, and your business engage-  "Oh I no, not that; but your father's bright
ments. Now I have sent for you, papa, that you character has perhaps dazzled me from seeing
may be a secret auditor to this conference,. and minutely the virtues of others, even of your
relieve you from the position of being a ninny sweet character. I can not, can not but linger
any longer."                                upon this theme.  It is to a daughter's ears, and
"Ninny! This to your father. Do you ac- before her, as well as every one, will I dvi ell on
cuse the author of your days of-of mental-  it. I love your father," said Mr. Hunkyfell, with
of-unfilial child of Satan !" said Mr. Tomlins, a slight appearance of being pathetic.
becoming exasperated again.g  ri                  know you do," replied Susie, somewhat
"10 papa! Good morning, Mr. Satan. How impatiently. 111 know you do. But me-tell
do you do ?" cried the lively Susie.        me, I pray you, tell me, sir, why you wish to see
"Ahem !I won't listen to you, you bad me at this time, my dear-Mr. Hunkyfell."
child."                                       "I will, I will. But as I do so, let me take
I . don't wish you to. I wish you to listen to that dear hand of yours in mine, and then I
Mr. Hunkyfell."     -can--"
"Do you mean to ask me, the deacon of the canAh sir! the trouble of my mind since you so
First Congregational, and president of the Seventh rashly revealed your feelings toward me the
National, to descend to the mean subterfuge of a other day, is not to be expressed," said -Susie
key-hole, in order to become the enemy of-of looking down.
my best friend ? Froward child, you do not know  " Then you have divined my feelings, dear
your own wickedness. This is the working of girl. I thank you.  Oh ! now  I have hopes,
Bunter. And who is this Mr. Winkfield who has strong, yet'tender hopes !" continued the rever-
wormed his way into the confidence of your end gentleman, with a gesture which indicated he
aunt as well as--"                          was congratulating himself upon a victory.
aunHa! ha!  Hush, papa; think of aunt being  "And what are these-these tender hopes,
in the melting mood! Odear !" dear sir ?" asked Susie. '(" O the fool! why
" The idle, disrespectful jest again I"   doesn't le take my hand?")
"Mr. Winkfield is a handsome, intelligent   "Your father is my friend," said .Mr. Hunky-
young gentleman, and he is my adviser in this fell, relapsing into panegyrics again. "I am
matter, and I don't care who knows it," said proud of that title, and to my last dying day, if
Susiejwpettish frankness.                   I can in the most minute way requite that friend-
"AhI! A friend of Bunter's schemes, eh? ship, by gratifying his wishes, by spreading his
Very well, I have decided. I will do as you merited famne-by--"
wish," replied the father, with temper. "Never "But these hopes," asked Susie hurriedly,
was such distractionep-"what are they, sir-my dear Mr. Hunkvfell ?"
wMr.Winkfield wished it to be distinctly un-  "You are young and artless, and need some'
derstood he is here at present merely as Tom's one to direct you. Is it not so, dear girl ?"
friend and intercessor. Feeling some delicacy  "1Oh ! yes," replied Susie, casting her eyes down
from having been conclusively forced to form an again, with stage demureness. ("Ah! he is com-
unfavorable estimate of a person whom you as ing at it now!")
yet highly esteem, and who is a member of your  Your estimable father, for whomI can not-"
household,,hle honorably %vishes to defer, until  (11Confound it, there he is off again r)
you have visible proof of the disloyalty of this  "But I see it displeases you to hear me speak
villainous fellow, asking you the privilege of vis- thus of your father"
iting your family as a friend."               tOh        B no, no; not at all," said Susie hastily, "of
"Hum! A fine commencement of friendship ! course not.  But you mentioned hopes, with
abetting mutiny in my household P" concluded which I am connected: have you not, dear-sir
Mr. Tomlins, with an air which was undoubted- and you-"
ly very unfavorable to our hero.              11I have, dear girl. Hopes, strong, tender
The hour was toward dark. Susie was walk- hopes. They are of carrying out your father's
ing in an alley of the conservatory, now and wishes."
then plucking a flower. Her father was con-   "My father's wishes I"repeated Susie.
cealed beneath one of the lofty stands of plants.  "Yes, and they are even stronger now than
Mr. Hunkyfell entered, with an easy air.    they were when I casually met you in the oratory
' Ah Miss Susie ! you are here, and alone."  the other day, and when I would have kissed
"Yes, and sir, is it not better, perhaps, that your forehead, for the indications I then saw of
the door be closed during our interview ?" said a returning obedience to his desires, upon your
Sugio, hesitatingly.                        part."I
" The door?  Oh! yes, certainly ;" replied Mr.  "What ?" said Susie in astonishment.
Hunkyfell. There was a twinkle in his eye, and  "My days must be devoted to go d while I
he glanced around with the rapidity of lightning. remain on earth. My stay may be perhapsshort,
"My dear, dear girl," continued he, approach- I feel worn with my labors in religion's cause.
ing her, " you have gratified my inmost wishes."' But it sustains me, it fills mea with etuasm to
"Ah ." replied Suirfly.-                 knw'    am  supre    aly tha m  fathu  syn
" I knew you inherited the kindness, the dis- pathy of your fther, in altm felbors. Howv de-
position to generous confidence of your worthy hecious then was it to me to  utee o t hat po
father," continued the divine. ..tracted exhortations to you on your duytWhlast
." Is it possible that you have but lately dis- father, were at last having an effect. Wen ls

MR. WINKFIELD.

I met you alone an4 in meditation, I saw tha
change, and I have sought this interview to com
plete it, dear girl."
" What, sir, do you mean to say that-"
"But do not reveal to hin my efforts wijti
you. I would not that he should kinow of then
until their consummation. The delight of hi
surprise will be my delight, for it is virtue's, re
ligion's cause too, as well as his. Ah I I fee
happy. I-
S What do you mean by this rhodomontadeF
cried the confused Susie.
" R1odomontadel Iuch language now?
Miss Susan ! can I-can I have been misled in m
hopes by the child of my dear benefactor, by
her whom I would thus save from false friends
from misery, from error?"
"Answer ine this question," said Susie, ener
getically, " do you mean to say that you did not
attempt to kiss my cheek in the oratory, the other
day from other motives than interest in my
father's wishes ?"
"Other motives! Why, what other motives ?"
asked the reverend gentleman, with a well-feigned
air of painful astonishment. "But it is not you,
no, not thc child of my pure friend that speaks.
It is the baneful, maliynant influence of the false
friends, new and old who are surrounding her
with their worldly snares."
"Do you mean to say, sir,' continued gasie in
a rage, "that you have not sought this interview
expressly to make love to me ?"
"Your cruel, immodest insult is.refuted by the
simple fact that I haven't, " replied the divine in
triumph. " But oh ! enough I"
Confound it, so you haven't," exploded
Susie in bewilderment, "but you wished to,
and-and now I see-you knew that, that there
might be somebody concealed here in-"
"Gracious heaven, somebody here who wil
reveal my efforts to your father ! Who ! where!"
exclaimed the other, with a well-affected start of
consternation.
" I am here, my dear friend !" said Mr. Tom.
lins, coming forth from behind the shrubbery,
and speaking in an agitated voice. "0 0ir ! I
apologize for my position, but I do not regret
it, for by it I have been enabled to see through
the vile designs which would tear me from a
noble man, a true Christian, from the best friend
I have. My daughter, repair the injury you have
attempted, by confessing your crime upon your
knees before him, or you are no longer a daugh-
ter of inn 1"
"Stay !" cried Mr. Hunkyfell; "stay, Mr.
Tomnlins, for my sake. I plead with you to stay
your anger from your child. Oh! no, she can not
wish to impute dishonor to me. She has but
been led to err against her better nature, in her
fatal attachment for an un worthy, cruel,malignant
foe, Ah li I reo-the threat of ber lover's friend.
Tush, it is but an imbecile conspiracy !"
" What I Bunter's friend, this Winkfield, has
threatened you!--and, you-you-" continued
Mr. Tomlins, turning to his daughter, "you after
lending yourself to this vile attempt, stand mute
without a defense for your malice P"
"I do not. I will defend my assertions, by
asserting them again. Your noble mam, sincere
Christian, and true friend, is a perjured, hard-
cued traitor ! As for the facts, they are not
plainer to me than his motives. But I won't say.

t any more to or abont the Wretch ; and that is
I- poz!"
At this juncture, as Susie very properly burst
nto a flood of tears, a sympathetic agitation ap-
lm feared at once in the lid of a large tool-box
standing at some distance from the scenejn the
s conservatory. It opened half-way, shut down,
- and then opened entirely, and there stood dis-
l closed like a couple of jumping-jacks, two other
parties interested in this matter, Mr. Bunter
and Mr. Winkfield.   The latter chivalrously
sought the side of Susie, while the former
commenced to hase thuedivine about the al-
y leys with a hoe, with which lie proposed to put
him to death. He succeeded in knocking him
, heavily upon the back by one smart blow, ere
Moses by action, and Mr. Tomlins by adjuration,
- arrested p4im. The noise at once attracted the
cook from the kitchen-the serious footman, and
r a pious house-maid from the table-setting and
stolen love-making in the dining-room, and last,
though not the least interested, as far as Moses
was concerned, Aunt Jane from her boudoir. The
divine recovered his equanimity, and the judi-
cious use of his faculties from the presence of
numbers and the threatened procuration of thme
authorities by Mr. Tomnins ineae of a fresh out-
break of the enemy's malignancy. His triumph
was now about to be complete, an(l he seemed
chiefly decirous of enjoying it o er our OKeeiVied
hero, lie assumed, for that pleasing purpose, an
air of magnanimity and Christian forgiveness,
truly xasperatingto the latter.
"My erring brother, let me forgive your fault,"
he addressed Moses. " Yours is perhaps not so
much that of moral obliquity as a mistaken view.
Why, you are pale, sir ? The air within yonder
receptacle must have been extremely unhealthful.
I sincerely hope you have not risked your health
by remaining there too long," continued ie with
a tender, Christian solicitude, and agaii a humior-
ous twinkle in his eye, meant for our poor her)o
alone.
" Mr. Tomlins, sir," said the latter, endeavor-
ing to be as cool as possible, and addressing the
deluded pater-familias for the first time, though
at the sane time incidentally endeavoring to run
through and transfix the hypocritical divine with
a look; "the exposure of this personhas failed.
I will not say by any other means than perhaps
the low cunning, which is far removed-far me-
moved from an intelligent sagacity, sir, and which
could only have been foreseen in him, luy persons
themselves accustomed to its base use!I"
Young mai," replied Mr. Tonlins, 'I am not
disposed to listen to accents of what I deem
shameless if not criminal effrontery'I
" Allow me to observe," continued the bravo
but unsuccessful Moses, blushing to the crown of
his head, " that I hold those who by prejudice aro
blinded to proceedings MagainAt themclives of
wicked men, whom they have an opportunity of
justly punishing, deserve, if not reprehiension, at
least no sympathy. At some future day, when
the inevitable dispensation of justice shall be
awarded in this matter-"
".Brazen adventurer and reviler of virtuous
men !" exclaimed Mi. Tombuhis, "leave my-"
"hold, my dear friend," interrupted Mr. Hun-
kyfell. " Let us seek, like Christians, this op-
portunity to excite him and all ouir errini friends
here to steadier virtue, by showing them an cx-


46

ample of meet forgiveness. Let uis embrace them,
let us receive them into our confidence, give them
our advice, and lead them up to a triumphant re-
nunciation of their errors-a sweet, sweet return
of good for evil."
"1Hear this !" exclaimed Mr. Tomlins, much
affected. "Perverse creature, could you find it
in N our heart to wrong such virtue ?"
"Madam!" said Moses, now philosophically
turning to Aunt Jane. "I acknowledge that
the glance of reason can never be sufficient, un-
ailed, to direct us in every part of our conduct.
When it is not stifled by our own passions, it is
misled by the deceptions of others. In particu-
lar do I think some portion of providential grace
is necessary in this cas, by heaven !"
"Ye., and oh 1 won't you please repent, sir ?"
replied Aunt Jane in timid excitement. "For my
sake-for one who to win you from error, is
willing to avow that she would reciprocate the
tender-"
" I beg pardon," said Moses, as the lady hesi-
tated, " you were about to observe-"
"That I would reciprocate your love, dear
youth, were you only a member of the glorious
band !" murmured the fragile girl in a sweet
reluctant whisper to him.
"tHeavens ! wiat a misfortune. Madam, you
mistake-you are entirely mistaken !" Moses,
vehemently whispered back.
The lady sat down involuntarily upon an orange-
tree box, and shut her eyes as she heard the fital
truth. Hr senses swam, and she fell into mo-
mentary insensibility.
" I hope, Mr. Winkfield," said the shrewd
divine, " though my friend Mr. Tomlins still re-
mains inexorable, that I shall meet with you
again. I see not only that you possess high
talents, but that thee are many virtues in your
character, which I think might be strengthened
by ny exhortations and advice !"
" And a constant contemplation of your in-
fernal example. Allow me to observe that you
are a rascal, and that any body is a pitiable mole
who after five minutes' conversation with you
can think otherwise. I am perfectly cool, sir,
else I should be tempted to violate the laws of
decorum by inflicting upon your person a severe
punishment, a very severe punishment. As it is,
my selfrespect compels me to leave your presence.
Until the scales of prejudice shall have dropped
from the eyes of your patron, I fear that justice
will be shielded from you through him I"
"Young man !" said Mr. Tomlins here, "you
can now leave this house. I have already for-
bidden my disobedient daughter from receiving
the visits of Bunter. I now plainly tell her, if
she has a future interview, either with principal
or accomplice in this vicious plot, I disown her
forever !"!
"Never mind, Tom. Never mind, Mr. Wink-
field !" here cried Susie cheerfully. " If papa
continues to make a ninny of himself, that won't
prevent ultimate justice being done. I think you
had better go now. I am sick of the whole
thing, and am going to dinner."
Our hero fatally lingered in his honest efforts
to emancipate this worthy family from the toils
of deception. In the first place, he attempted to
be classically satirical, by reciting a Johnsonian
allegory, containing gods and goddesses, upon
the subtlety of hypocrisy. In this he was sternly

rebuked ere he finished, by Mr. Tomlhin, for add.
ing to his other enormities a frivolous and vain
display of a knowledge of profane fiction. He
then wildly attempted to continue his efforts by
making an unsupported assertion that the ebap-
lain had deliberately and unblushingly bargained
with him, as the party of the second part's agent,
to sell his consent to Mr. Bunter's union with
Miss Tomlins for the sum of twenty thousand
dollars.
At this, by the immediate orders -f the irre-
coverably exasperated head of the family, and
although Aunt Jane faintly protested,and both our
hero and the unhappy Bunt-r struggled manfully,
they were dismissed in disgace, and with irre-
sistible violence, through the side- gate, by the
combined efforts of the three male domestics of
the house, aided by the Dutch grocer and, his
boy, who turned traitors to Bunter at the last
moment, from fear of losing the patronage of the
house.
" By Jove, it is just what we expected to have
done to the reverend rascal " ejaculated Moses,
as they walked away.
" So it is !" said Mr. Bunter, struck with the
idea.
"It is singular ! The dispensations of Provi-
dence, I must say, are very singular-very singu-
lar indeed. But, my dear boy, we did the best
we could," continued Moses. "And things are
perhaps not much worse off than they were be-
fore, eh ?"
" No, perhaps they are not," said Mr. Bunter
dubiously.
" And mind you, Bunter, whenever you want
my aid, send for inc at once, though not just at
present. Perhaps it would not be judicious just
now."
The grateful but unhappy Bunter heartily
thanked Moses for what lie had done, though he
seemed compelled to acknowledge the propriety
of the latter's opinion of the situation.
"Smar t fellow, that Hunk) fell !" said he.
"Very," replied Moses.      V.
"How did he find out what we were up to ?"
asked Bunter, in curiosity.
" By his infernal cunning, by his infamous
craftiness "' replied Moses, vainly efndeavoring to
longer repress his anger. "It is my intention,
Bunter, it is my intention, by heaven, to----to
soundly thrash that gentleman the next time I
meet with him, no matter where it.is !"
CHAPTER XIX.
THE COUNT AND COUNTESS HETHERINGTON.
TaE 0yotg people, Mr. and Mrs. Hetherington,
with wvhom Moses lodged, were a singularly un-
sophisticated couple. They formed what judg-
ment they had of men and things from the impos-
sible situations, absurd -creatures, and exagger-
ated sentiment which are the attractions of sen-
sational romance and the gag of the stage. A
rational maiden aunt residing at a convenient
distance in the country, supplied them with what
money and sense they needed for the ordinary
purposes of life, and they were thus enabled to
pass their hours in all sorts of illusions. He was
laboring under the hallucination that lie was

I,
r

47

doing business by passing daily through the bus
ness part of the city, and she that she was house
keeping by intrusting her household to an ene
getic Irish girl  "0 happy innocence of yout
and happy young love !" was Moses's reflection
while playing at all-fours and drinkihtg tea wit'
them one evening in their parlor. What though
the wife at times would put on infantile manner
and nestle in her husband's lap, or the lord, o
the contrary, assume a parental air, or cithie
would drink out of the other's cup, or he would
kiss her scissors, or she the cracked flute lie ha!
been attempting a wheezy melody upon, or woulc
produce his picture and passionately contemplat
it, if lie happened to leave the room temporarily
what though these and other tender little scene.
between them  somewhat disturbed our hero'E
feeling as a conservative philosopher; he never
theless enjoyed himself hugely In their society
from very sympathy with virtue and innocence
In his enthusiasm, he gallantly descanted upon
his young host's manly intelligence, and upon hi;
hostess's amiable loveliness, indulging in littl
complimentary turns of wit, generously subdued
to the capacity of their appreciation.
"Ai !" said he to Mr. Hetherington, with
whom he was playing, while the wife was leaning
over her husband's shoulder and fondling him
carelessly about his head and ears. "Ah ! the
queen of hearts I Yes, fortune has given he
to you in this game, and in life too-the queen
of all hearts!"-
With this heavy inanity, he looked at the
lady, who immediately returned a gratified look,
and treated him to the sight-of a seemingly un
-conscious kisq imprinted upon the cow-lick in
the crown of her lord's head.
"Have you ever noticed, Mr. Hetherington,'
continue the benevolent Moses, making another
gallant effort, "how much your wife's nose re-
sembles-that of the Greek slave ?"
"You don't say so ?" said the young husband,
gazing in rapture at-that organ of his loved spouse.
" What a wondrous triumph is that illustrious
work of art," continued Moses, rendered a little
shaky in his principles against flattery, by the
sight of the pleasure lie was giving. "Not a
feature but is the ideal of artistic perfection."
The wife here furtively glanced a woman's
glance at the mirror, looked again gratifiedly at
Moses, and then to round off the situation, play-
fully pulled her husband's nasal organ.
"Don't. You hurt !" said the latter, affecting
severe pain.
Here a short row was improvised for the pur-
pose of a lengthy reconciliation. The latter was
of such an extremely tender nature, that Moses
felt compelled to make a diversion.
"Hark ! I thought I heard the fire-bells. No.
Never mind V" concluded he, after feigning to
listen, "I was mistaken.   By the way, we
haven't finished the rub, Mr. Hetherington."
" And, Mr. Winkfield, suppose my wife plays
with me against you ? Mollie, you can sit upon
half my chair," replied Mr. Hetherington.
"Oh ! that will be so cosy !" exclaimed Mollie.
"Certainly, certainly," replied Moses, smiling
pleasantly. ("Such tenderness!")
"hIm this way you will sit more easily, Mollic,"
contined Lord Hetherington, putting his arm
around his countess. " Is my cheek too rough
against yours ? It is unshaven to-day."

MR. WINKFIELD.

MR. WINKFIELD,

ii-  "Darling !" whispered the wife in low sariness,
e- " the cheek of my darling husband! "
r-   By a slight snort the husband relieved himself
h of the oppression of his temporary ecstasy at this
i, exhibition of his wife's microscopic devotion,
h and by resuming the play, relieved Moses of a
h powerful premonition that lie would be called
s, upon to hear more fire-bells shortly.
n    "Your aunt lives at Waterbury, Mr. Hether-
r ington ?" inquired Moses confidentially.
d    " Yes. She advised us to let one floor to have
d a little society in the evenings. We thought of
d a lady and gentleman, but we think we are for-
e tunate in securing you; (don't we, Mollie?)
Not that we are at all tired of each other's so-
a eety and wish others, but-"
s   "Tired .of each other' society !" exclaimed
the wife, with a tender reproachful look again at
her husband. "0 Rainsford I the thought !"
.   "But what I mean, dear, is, that it is pleasant
to have some one drop in at times, you know." -
s   " 01,! yes. Yes. To be sure ; and envy us.
e Of course, certainly," said the wife recovering.
I   "And when aunt comes down, it will be so
pleasant for her to meet you, Mr. Winkfield!"
" And it will be a pleasure to me to meet her,
sir," continued our hero impressively.  "A
pleasure additional to that which I now expe-
rience as an observer and man of the world in
r witnessing, and as a friend I hope I may say, in
sharing the exquisite harmony and happiness of
her young relative's household."
2!  "Mr. Winkfield, we entertain a great esteem
for you, sir; " said Mr. Hetherington impulsively.
- " And I thought after all it was better you
were a single gentleman of leisure," joined in the
wife in an overflow of confidence, "as, being
some older than Rainsford, you might more will-
ingly take walks with him, and kindly give him
advicein his business operations."
" Those that I shall shortly enter intoI!" ex-
plained the husband.
" I will, madam 1" exclaimed our hero, rising
in enthusiasm. "I feel it my duty, and your hus-
band may consider me as a business friend and
commercial brother!!"
With this happy arrangement, a game of coup-
gorqe euchre was substituted for the single game,
which, however, was presently interrupted by
the rules of the game compelling Hethering-
ton to cruelly aid and abet Mr. Winkfield in
beating the countess, thereby causing the latter
to burst into a copious rain of conjugal som-row.
After holding out for about ten minutes, she
granted her repentant husband's earnest suppli-
cations for forgiveness, during which Moses inge-
niously saved himself the necessity of starting
another alarm of fire by undertaking a long
apology, thinking that one was due from some-
body for the occurrence of the scene.
The game was then renewed and continued
with partial success, several more sensational
epochs occurring during the evening. At last
Moses, having heard three additional alarms of
fire, two altercations in the street, one knock at
the door, and seen three spiders, retired for the
night to his own room. He had enjoyed himself
much, and he resolved to visit them, fi-equently
and give them his advice.
"It will be a pleasure. They evidently have
taken a fancy for me, a great fancy, amid seek
my friendship. Anid they shall have it I

9
6


48

MR. WINKFIELD.

Yes, they are perhaps a little indiscreet in their improvement of the culinary science. Cooking is
child-like enthusiasm  for each other; it is, in slighted in this country, appetite is regarded as a
fact, a little too much at times for, perhaps, a ra- constitutional disease, and meals lightning-like
tional being, but it is still emotionally anA exqui- remedies taken at the crisis to assuage its
site sight, and with that advice it will be rendered periodical attacks."
more exquisite, by becoming gradually more    It may be interesting to the reader to know
sober and more reasonable.    Yes, I must incidentally that the effort at culinary reform in
promise myself the pleasure, of visiting them fre- the shape of Parisian dish above referred to, was
quently."                                   within three weeks subsequent to its introduction,
the cause of at least three duels on paper, six
knock-downs, and a large number of petty con-
versational quarrels, from the necessary and heat-
ing preponderance in its composition of the
CHAPTER XX.                   poiwre over the chat jeus.    .
Moses was now introduced by his friend to a
MOSES SPENDS AN EVENING IN     A  NEW-YoK gentleman, an old habitud of the club, seated with
CLUB-iHOUSE.others in a window, and engaged in the afternoon
A rw days subsequent to his domiciliation occupation of reviewing the ladies of fashion as
with Mr. Hetherington, Moses was indulging they rolled by in their carriages, or swept along
upon the Avenue in the graceful gymnastic exer- the pavement.
cise, designated sauntering, when, being overtaken  "Nephew  of Toplady. Charmed to know,
by a young city acquaintance, lately made, he you," said lie. "Sit down. Where is your
accepted his invitation to accompany him to his uncle? Haven't seen him lately."
club-house, one of the many located upon the  , Moses stated that his relative had but lately
fashionable  street.  Moses had heard that, returned from a short sojourn in the country,
numbering among the older members many and diverted by the pleasant view from the win-
merchants, professional men, and retired gen- dow, took a seat in the alcove with his friend,
tlemen of fortune, these establishments were and joined in the common occupation of looking
especially adapted to improve the rising youth of out of it.
New-York by the practical lessons of experience, "How are you, Tillotson ?" continued the old
to cultivate their wit and good taste, to perfect habitue, as a young gentleman with rather red
them in the accomplishments of language,conduct, eyes and careless smile came up to him and lean-
appearance and behavior, which adorn the gen- ed over his chair to look out also.  What is
tleman moving in the best society, and in par- the news over at 'The Boys'?",,)
ticular to give rise to those warm and lasting at-  "I don't know. Ion't go there."
tachients which ennoble life. He had been es-  "Don't go there ?"
pecially pleased to hear that the vices of society  "Left. Y'see the butler has bought the mort-
to which youth is prone, were strictly excluded gage and bullies the fellers. I think I'll come
from the-most of these pleasant associations, that over here."
intemperance was considered a disgrace, that the "Certainly. I'll propose you to-night. Hel-
name of woman was always mentioned with re- 10, there goes Smilkey, most charming girl on
spect, and that the rules of lay were restricted the~ avenue. Eh! what! hallo! eh!  I say
by the penalty of fines or e pulsion to the-char- who's that she's got with hers?  By Jove, it is
acter of social pastime.  He was consequently that chap, Whatsynam !",.,
pleased with the opportunity of being introduced  "Who is he? I don't recollect him, asked
into one of them.                           Moses's friend inquisitively.
Having entered the gorgeous establishment,   "Who is he! Fellow of good family enough,
and duly admired the mirrors and the frames of but he belongs to that low club down the street,
the works of art adorning its walls, his attention where they admit clergymen and have lectures."
was called toward an alcove at one end of the  Here the speaker was temporarily interrupted.
drawing-room, apparently a committee-room of the  " Call a man," said he faintly; "two or three
institution, for at that time some eight or ten gen- times caught in this way!1 Wilson's tied 'em on
tlemen were either seated near a table therein, or too tight again."  There was some commotion,
moving about the same with the usual air of con- but whether it was the result of the mysterious
cern, and the buzzing noise incident to a delibe- manipulations of a domestic about the calves of
rative consultation. Moses presently learned that his legs or the hasty consumption of a glass of
it was the cuisine committee holding its monthly brandy, he was presently enabled to resume the
meeting, and that the momentary subject of their interesting thread of criticism upon the various
enthusiastic labors, was the formal admission to passers-by in the avenue below. To all of which
the club carte of a piquant dish, the chat jeun Moses listened with some surprise, as he imagined
au poivre en ragout, discovered in a celebrated it did not contain that respect for the other sex,
six sous Parisian restaurant by a corresponding which he held as one of the first duties toward
member, who had immediately secured the recipe them of every male member of society, and he
for the club at his own expense.            hardly thought that this tone, which appeared to
"Our club approves the French method of pervade the conversation of others also upon the
cooking, you see," said Moses's friend ; "1treat- interesting subject of woman, fairly sustained the
ing it as a fine art should be treated, and giving reputation of the institution or repaid that ad-
it due attention."                          miration which he had observed the fashionable
"Quite rightly," replied the enthusiastic Moses. ladies of society generally bestowed upon it. In-
m' It is a highly laudable occupation for gentlemen deed, he was forced to conclude that if those fair
of Iei-ure. Nothing can be more beneficial to beings should judge this to be the manner in
society, especially Amnericamn society, than the which they were there talked about,.they would
11l

u1). WINKFIELD.

be inclined to look upon the institution as a de-
cided enemy to at least one ,-hich they generally
prize, the time-honored inwitution of marriage.
" Hallo, there goes Dobbin's wife! Ha! ha!
Did you ever see such A change in a man ? What
a poke he used to be. But she drove him abso-
lutely to join us. The poor fellow didn't wish to,
at all. Domestic, you know, fond of children.
But he's over that. Spends most of his, time
here, and is transformed into a regular butterfly,
sad dog."
Moses reflected that Mrs. Dobbin ought cer-
tainly to be a satisfied woman, and was turning
to conceal any little doubtful expression of coun-
tenance which his thoughts might give rise to,
when his vision was met by what seemed to him,
to be a gorgeous expression of the fine art of
dressing.  It was a young    man, a   youth
who might truly be designated as the very
perfection of the fashion.  That very morn-
ing the gentleman had risen early and expended
several closely reflective hours, in examining at a
proper distance the genius which had been
thrown into the breeches he now wore. A re-
tirement for deeper study and thorough analysis
of the lines of beauty displayed in an accompany-
ing coat,-had occupied the heart of the day. An
hour of the afternoon had been devoted to a con-
sultation with his man upon the proper means of
getting into the whole establishment without'
marring any of its effect, and finally the sunset
hour saw him successfully robed in these rare
habiliments, and the dying day was glad to be
faintly reflected in their glorious lustre ere it
gave up the ghost of its existence. He stood be-
fore our hero an astonishing apparition, himself
astonished at the wonder of his own creating.
He looked at our hero for a short moment. It
was but to survey his nether habiliments. A slight
faint -smile expanded upon his countenance, and
lie turned away. A smile of pity and compassion
for the unhappy Moses, one of contempt and
scorn for his breeches.
Moses again directed his attention to the old
gallant, who now proceeded to entertain himself,
and those about him with a minute relation of a
deeply interesting story 'of real life which had
happened during the earlier years of his existence,
the hero of which was one of his intimate friends
and in which lie himself was subordinately involved.
The glorious triumph of this interesting friend
appeared to have consisted principally, inthe so-
duction of a young and foolish married lady, and
incidentally in the murder of her husband, and the
breaking of both her parents' hearts.
"And he was hanged, of course ?" asked our
hero, apparently making a humorous attempt at
indignation.
"Eh?    Ha! ha!    Pretty good.  Ranged?
No. He'll be here soon. He is a glorious fellow.
Very popular. If you will wait a little while, I
will introduce him to you. You never saw such
a facetious old dog as he is! Dry, sir! Dry, as
sherry or an old maid's bones !"
Our hero felt, no doubt, that if there was as
much dry humor displayed in this glorious indi-
vidual's remarks as his actions, his conversation
might be as effective as Professor Holmes's first
attempt at being funny was upon the compositors.
So he did not wait to be introduced ; but walked
away to another room under the delieatc pretense
of seeking his friend, who had temporarily ab-

seated himself for a little consultant, with the
head cook, intended to be highly advantagu~i,5 to
both Moses and himself.s
Here he was. occasioned a little surprise, by an
attenuated elderly gentleman, of highly respect-
able appearance, but still with an unhappy rest-
less air, as though something unconcluded was
weighing upon his mind, requesting with a polite
apology a few moments of private conversation.
Moses walked with him to a window.
" Do you intend to marry her ?" said the
stranger, in a low voice.
"What! whom ?" said Moses, in confusion.
" The sister of the man with big legs and
whiskers," continued the stranger, with weak
accents.
"You mistake, sir!   You are directing to
me an inquiry undoubtedly meant for some other
party," replied Moses in astonishment.
" Oh! Oh! I beg pardon. The room is dark
and indistinct. Excuse me !" continued the gen-
tleman, "I thought you were the party."
" Certainly !" said Moses politely.
" She ought to be married at any rate. It is a
duty the party owes to other people if not to
her," muttered the other with a dissatisfied air
and still eyeing Moses, as he walked away.
Moses was so much struck with this brief in-
terruption that he appealed to his friend when
he returned for information upon it.
"Oh ! didn't you know him? Why, that is Spen-
cey.  The fact of it is," replied his friend
shortly, "he is a little touched in his cranium.
Only a little, though, and solely upon this sub-
ject. We don't mind him. But really, the cause
of his state of mind is so singular, I must tell it
to you."
" Do so," said Moses, quite interested.
"He was going home from the Club-House at
a late hour one evening, when he was followed
from its door until he reached'Union Park, by a
carriage and two unknown men walking upon the
pavement behind him, When lie had gained the
Park pavement, the carriage stopped at a short
distance ahead of him, the men violently seized
him, forced him into it, and stifling all opportu-
nity to use his vocal organs, ears, or vision, drove
off. After they stopped and Spencey had par-
tially recovered from the insensibility, which had
been caused by fright and the stuffed bag into
which they had inserted his head, he found him-
self being made to enter a building which he im-
mediately felt to be a church, and presently he
knew that he was standing before its altar. A light
was ordered to be turned on in a low voice, a
hand was placed in his, and upon the stuffed bag
being removed from his head, he discovered him-
self in an unknown sanctuary, standing before a
clergyman in vestments, with an unknown female
in agitation by his side, and another and older
female in equal agitation supporting her, while two
other gentlemen were seated at a short distance.
"'You know the meaning of this. Refuse to
go on with the ceremony, sir- and you die!' whis-
pered a large man with large whiskers, in the af-
frighted Spencey's left car, and furtively pressing
the muzzle of a pistol behind it.
"In all human probability, though a-bachelor
of many years' confirmation, he would in two
inoi'e minutes have been irrevocably married to a
female, whom he had never seen before and who
was also not remarkably attractive, if the down-

49


50                  MR. WINKFIEo

cast ar 7orithe convulsed bride, had not been
e      directed to his legs, (you observed,
he hadrather thin ones,) and thus to his face.
She gave a subdued shriek, murmured, 'It is not
he l' and fell in insensibility upon the pavement,
and amid the confusion incident upon the discov-
ery she had made, Spencey followed her example.
When he recovered, he found himself being eject-
ed from a hack in an obscure street as forcibly as
he had been made to enter it, and while restoring
his ill-used person to an erect posture, he observed
it driving away in the distance. He ran wildly
about, found the avenue to his residence, reached
the latter, put himself to bed, and after a week's
delirium, rose from the same, with his wits per-
manently disordered, at least as far as the neces-
sity of this unknown girl's marriage is presented
to him in connection with his own future peace
of mind."
" That is the most extraordinary adventure I
ever heard of," exclaimed Moses, striking the
table before him emphatically.
" He wisely conjectures it was some fellow con-
nected with the Club, whom they were after, but
very irrationally imagines strangers whom he
meets here, to be the derelict person ! Hence
came his mistake in approaching you."
"Well, that incident is extremely singular,"
reiterated Moses.
" The parties had either imbibed too strongly
for the occasion, or their faculties of perception
had been unjointed by their excitement. Unluck-
ily for him, the mystery has riever been solved.
The parties undoubtedly were frightened with
their own violence, or else knew it would be of
no use to attempt to find the real fellow. They've
never been heard of. But let's to dinner."
And thereupon' Moses accompanieVl his enter-
tainer to the dining-room. After casually observ-
ing a youthful gentleman who having been
abroad, was endeavoring to give tone to-the es-
tablishment, by dining as he had seen it done
in England, to wit, by taking a chop and a pint
of sherry, reading the afternoon journal, looking
languid and observing the effect of the whole on
the spectators, and also after observing another
young gentleman, who was introducing the fash-
ion as he had seen it, to wit, getting very drunk
and going to sleep over his chop, newspaper, and
sherry, Moses proceeded to and through a dinner
which certainlydid honor to the regulations of
the fastidious committee, and which he felt a
modern Gil Blas would have pronounced worthy
of Dr. Spring, Tyng, McCloskey, Bellows, or any
of the present hierarchy. When the repast was
finished, he enjoyed the further facilities whic
the Club furnished for the amusement of its fre
quenters in the form of "the Club" game of
whist at sixpence point, that being well known
as the maximum stake allowed in the establish
ment. With his usual impetuous enthusiasm in
matters which could afford pleasure to thosE
around him, he here entered fully into the spirit
of this curious game, and after a prolongation of
the amusement for two hours, discovered upor
rising from the table for the purpose of partakinE
of a lobster salad, that he had lost four dollar
and been fined four hundred and twenty for va
rious violations of the game. He was surprised ti
observe though it struck him as a very common
dious arrangement, that this matter of fining wa
intrusted to the members at play themselves, an

I

that during the %vening the rules of the institu-
tion were being ctestantly vindicated by weighty
penalties enforced 'ty these parties upon each
other. He now joined again in the conversation
and although many disputes arose therein, in con-
sequence perhaps, of the consumption of too
much unnecessary wine, he saw that they were
politely confined to mere logomachy by a -ery
curious but highly laudable practice among the
members-a practice, which appeared to be an-
other rule of the institution for preserving its re-
putation for high tone, consisting in both parties
promptly challenging each other and then in-
stantly withdrawing their warlike notes. As
many as five of these interesting exchanges took
place during his presence there. As to the style
of conversation, he speedily became aware that
the entertaining topics which had been discussed
before dinner were very popular ones in the es-
tablishment.
Although several old merchants now and then
endeavored to bring upon the tapis the public
events of the day, or sequestered themselves at
times in small knots for a quiet discussion of a
punch and commercial matters, it was observable
sooner or later that the entire assemblage swam
in the more vivacious channels of thought,- the
scandal of the day; and those who hadn't much
to say, listened to what others said about every
body's wife or mistress, horses, dogs, or servants.
He became bewildered, and toward midnight
he rushed from the establishment, resolved,
among other things, to destroy the peace of the
first quiet family he could get at. In the morn-
ing the result of his few reflections upon the in.
stitution, was, that it might be considered, as a,
dining-house, a very praiseworthy institution.
Whether his previous views thereon in other re-
spects were confirmed or not, it is perhaps not
necessary for us to state.
CHAPTER XXL
AN UNSATIsFACTORY ONE TO MOsES,
Mosgs had noiw become quite intimate with Mr.
Wagbull's excellent family. Though the old lady
still kept up her mysterious propensity to view
h;m with disfavor, he nevertheless managed, by
his propitiatory conduct, to prevent her aggres-
sive movements from  coming to violence and
blows. When, however, upon his last afternoon
call, he imagined he observed a coldness and re-
serve in the manner of her granddaughter, he
was suddenly reminded there might possibly oc-
cur more disagreeable results of the ancestral in-
- fluence, than if the old lady should be led to in-
sert a sharp instrument in a vital portion of his
person, or to scatter the physical nest of his
t mind with a fire-arm. He looked earnestly at
Miss Wagbull for the moment, as if to descry the
1 cause of the barometer's fall, and asked her
dubiously if her grandmother was well.
S    "Oh ! yes, sir," replied the young lady.
"But are-are you a little indisposed yourself,
o Miss Bessie ?" continued Moses lugubriously.
- V ou are scai cely in your usual spirits to-day,
stare you ?" ,
d" Oh ! yes, sir," replied Bessie, appearing to

MR. WINKFIELD.

51

make a momentary effort, and immediately re-
lapsing into conversational incapacity.
"But you are engaged now ?" continued Moses
deferentially. " And shall I-"
"Oh ! no, sir," replied she.
"How cold the weather is again!" continued
Moses after a pause.
" Oh ! yes, sir.-
"It is very disagreeable, very, outside. Have
you been out to-day, Miss Bessie ?"
" Oh! no-that is, I mean yes. Yes, sir," re-
plied she.
Here there was another pause, in which the
young lady courteously endeavored, by trifling
with her watchguard, to appear at ease, and too
evidently failed thereat.
"**see the Huguenots is to be performed on
Wednesday night," continued the perplexed Mo-
ses, hunting in vain for some conflagrating sub-'
ject.
"Y es-yes, it is."
"You will go, of course."
"Oh ! yes, sir.-"
"By heaven, but the role of Valentine is very
dramatic; do you not think so, Miss Wagbull ?!
"Oh! yes, sir," replied the young lady. Here
she made a great effort and added, "Very, very
much so."
The tremendous length of this remark, under
the circumstances, encouraged Moses so much,
that he immediately exclaimed with an air of en-
thusiasm, " And won't you sing rPlus blanche que
"a blanche hOhn!ine for me, Bessie ."
"Oh! yes. Yes, I will."
"But mind you, don't sing if you feel at all
disinclined. I would not ask you against your
wishes, you know, never, Bessie. That is, if you
are not in voice to-night, or-you are not in voice
to-night ." asked he vehemently.
"Oh! no; that is, I really fear I am not."
The song was not sung, and the conversation
continued for almost an half-hour longer in the
same brilliant style, which the young lady varied
slightly, however, by two or three confused- at-
tempts to excuse herself for inattention and ab-
straction, thereby rendering the situation much
more awkward. Unable to dispel the too evident
peculiarity in her manner, Moses finally made a
desperate effort, and tore himself away in an un-
sati fled state.
"Yes, sir, and no, sir! Confound it, what does
she mean by that ? It is either the grandmother
or dullness, and I will visit some place of amuse-
ment."
Moses was never more mistaken inhis life. It
was not the grandmother, nor did the young lady
feel at all dull. On the contrary, she felt unusu-
ally strong emotions that afternoon, and on his
account, too. The fact was, that during the
morning, she had visited Stewart's, and upqn
driving down a by-street, near the Fourth avenue,
she saw him looking hastily around while in the
not of making up to an old rheumatic negro with
charity in his hand. She was much affected by
the look of gratitude upon the useless darkey's
face, but she could not help laughing at the ab-
surd air with which the ridiculous Moses feigned
to abusively order off the ancient mendicant
as some one approached them. The act lent her
estimate of his character such dignity, that it had
momentarily scared her from the pleasant terms
of friendship into the fiekd of terrible respect,

To dissipate the impressions of her demonstra-
tion thereof, and at the same time to improve his
knowledge of the real world and the refined
amusements which is afforded to the student of
the ideal one, by the ingenious appliances of stage
paint and machinery, he proceeded in the evening
with Mr. Titman to witness a representation of
the Lady of Lyons.
Mr. Titman was much impressed with the
characters and the audience, the manner in which
the orchestra crawled in from beneath the stage,
the introductory tasting of his instrument by the
clarionet-player, the wrestling with and final per-
pendicular erection of the double-base, by the lit-
tle old musician with spectacles and snuffy nose,
and the dignified assumption of the musical
throne by the smiling leader. His absorption in
the play itself was shown in the fidelity with
which he followed the various expressions upon
the actors' faces, with similar ones upon his own,
and their gestures by sympathetic reflections.
Upon one occasion, when one of the exercised
characters started convulsively from his seat with
a forcible gesticulation, Mr. Titman also jumped
up, with one sufficient to alarm a consumptive
gentleman in frout of him, attract the eyes of
many of the audience, and arouse the vigilance
of the policeman in attendance. By these pecu-
harities of the susceptible Dibbletowyer augment-
ed by the eccentricity with which a 'a rentle-
man seated near by manifested his appreciate.
of the melodrama, Moses's ardent endeavors to
imbibe the true sentiment of the romantic play
were rendered quite sterile and unavailing. This
party, though evidently not subject to the weak-
ness of pathos, still had a manner of his own of
enjoying the play. Every thing in it was unmiti-
gatedly funny to him, except, perhaps, the scenes
which the distinguished author intended to be
such. From the commencement of the evolution
of the tender element, he indulged in ill-controlled
ecstasies of laughter, and the perspiration rolled
from his brow in his efforts to subdue to decorum
his visible agitation thereat. When the eloquent
description of the young horticulturist's imagin.
ative Alpine home was reached, the old gentleman
was unable to control his peculiar appreciation of
the play any longer. With an emphatic and au-
dible utterance of a very vulgar but popular word,
expressive of a profound sense of the ridiculous,
he rose, and being kindly assisted from the house
by the knightly bearer of the locust, soon reached
the street, in which the noise of his continued ex-
plosions might be heard dying away, as he gradu-
ally receded in the distance.  This distraction,
together with the annoyance caused by the per-
sistence with which a facetious party in the gal-
lery above him continued to drop programmes,
orange-peel, and other little valueless articles upon
his head, and also the proximity of a gentleman
behind him, who was partial in his repasts to that
fragrant vegetable, the onion, rendered the even-
ing, whether considered in the light of an emo-
tional exercise with the sentimental muse, or as
a philosophic one of critical observation, entirely
unsuccessful and barren in its results upon our
hero's being. This compels us, in consequence,
to close this chapter without any particular illus.
trations of the principles of dramatic science,
which we might other wise had an opportunity of
recording.
After having abstractedly followed Titman into


52

MR. WINKFIELD.

a lager-beer cellar, and accidentally drank a glass
of that beverage while there, Moses. presently re-
tired home and to bed.
CHAPTER XXII.
SYMPTOMATIC CASE OF A DISTEMPER TO WHICH IN-
EXPERIENCED AFFECTION IS VERY LIABLE.
WHEN he was not engaged in the evening, Mr.
Winkfield was frequently accustomed to resort to
the Hetherington parlor, there to cultivate the
society of the youthful couple, and sometimes
during the day he would accept the young mar-
quis's invitation to walk with him in the purlieus.
On these latter occasions, the wife generally bade
her husband adieu, as if he were departing for a
long voyage, and the young lord appeared to be
laboring under the same impression, for no sooner
did he leave her sight, than he would begin to
write short notes of love and encouragement to
her upon his hat in the street, -nd dispatch the
same to her by the swiftest running messenger or
idler near by. Tbh benevolent Moses was becqm-
ing more ar9 more interested in them, and took
great F,1ns in delicately offering to their inexperi-
.ice all the applicable rules of life which he
could remember or deduce. His enthusiasm rose
to a great height, and he thought he. saw clearly
a gseat change in them, which he proudly attri-
buted to their contact with him and his philoso-
phy. If there may have lately appeared a slight
peculiarity in the conduct of both toward him, it
was either imputed to his own fancy or to the
slight excess of the interest which they woulc
naturally endeavor to show in him. He was a
little mystified on several occasions, by observing
after some remark he had made, in particular of
a complimentary nature, that they would both
obtusely stare at him for a while, then look a
each other with a slight appearance of consterna
tion, and finally smile in a forced manner to ac
knowledge the same. He also once or twice dis
covered the young count, supported by. the coun
tess, listening at his keyhole; and he further no
ticed that while the count less frequently propose
the customary walk with him, they now invari
ably followed him to the front-door when he wen
out, subsequently appearing at the front-windov
to follow him with their gaze until he had disap
peared from the street.I
"A great interest. They are taking a grea
interest-in me," thought Moses in generous pride
"1And they manifest it in this original way, th
droll creatures !" .
On one occasion, having learned from him tha
he intended to leave the city for a short period
and after a circunlocutory extraction from him o
the proposed duration of'his absence, the youth
ful count simultaneously paid a flying visit to hi;
aunt in Waterbury, and returned in the evenin
train.
The conversation which ensued upon his am
rival, and the joyful embrace of his spouse, ma
be interesting to the reader, and perhaps of am
sistance in elucidating the mystery which wasb
ginning to envelop our hero in his relations wit
his host and hostess.

I" He has already got back and been here,"
said the countess.
"Say any thing?" asked the young husband
briefly but expressively, after they had sat still
for some moments.
COUNTEsS.-" Yes."
COuNT.-" Allude to your nose again ?"
COUNTESS. -"es."
" It must be so!" continued the count. " What
do you suppose led him to select us ?"
" It was the advertisement."
"Oh! no. It could not have been that. Look
at him. He has no business, he says. He wishes
to aid us with his friendship and advice. Yes, it
is deliberate.  He conducts himself properly
now, in order that he may be the more unsus-
pected.  Luckily, I have been awakened in-
time."
Painful silence for a few moments.
" Yes, if ever villain was written in a human
countenance in legible characters, it is surely iun
his. But why need we anticipate fresh evils ." re-
sumed the unhappy husband, making an effort
to be cheerful. "Though we be bewildered by
the extent of our present ones, do we not love
each other, dear?  And shall not that sustain us
against all the rude assaults of the world, of
peniwry, and with the ad of the strong arm of
Bridget, of such stoopers to deception, and un-
principled monsters searching for their prey as
this one?'
" My dearest duck, never shall I be found suf-
ficiently liberal in my most unguarded moment to
enable him ever to mention the subject of a
sympathetic confidence to me, And should he
do so, you know, I can easily call the cook! "
" Oh! yes, and let the miscreant, as he would
thus prove himself to be, feel himself then if he
I dared a match for Bridget. We can not let her
know about this matter now. But she must be
prepared as she was to day for such an emergen-
cy. Let her keep the kettle constantly boiling
i during his presence in the house, or let her have
the pepper-canister convenient b the door at
- all times."
- " What a mysterious fate envelops us, in this
- our early life of wedded existence, my Rainsford!
- Is it not strange that the evil which menaces us
should have penetrated even to our hearthstone,
d ere we were awakened from unconsciousness
.. and laid its meshes, like a malignant fowl, on our
t very threshold and staircase ?"
V    " Spider, my dear. Never mind. We must
watch and be guarded. -he slightest movements
of his daily career m1e of immense impor-
t tance in teaching the     h of his malignant
. wiles."
e ," Why didn't he fall in love with some single
lady?  There are so many who would run away
t with him in  a moment, if that was all lie wanted."
" My dear, he could not help it, the scoundrel
f lie could not resist your fatal beauty, the miser-
- able rascal ! You are too, too beautiful."
s   The conversation here ended, for the youmg
g lady fell precipitately on her husband's neck, and
whatever emotions or thoughts they bad to ex-
r- press, for some time were more beautifullyand
y affectionately communicated in actions of bland-
.- ishment,
h

I

MR. WINKFIELD.                                      53
()TA tEI    XXIII.              philosophical truth derived from historic exam-
rm ARncitmdrciT. SOCIETY. AN BISTORICAL 'pe. Moses had frequently observed this person
SCHOLAR.                    within the library, or.in the neighboring thor-
oughfares, generally hastily wending his way
'MosEs frequently visited, among other institu- thereto.  On one of these latter occasions, how.
ions, the magnificent library of the New-York  ever, he remembered to have observed him stop-
Archwological Society, and was much impressed, ping in front of the large window of a cook.
not only with the immense amount of learning shop, into which he appeared to look earnestly
upon its shelves, but also with that which existed and lingered as if unwilling to break the charm
in the heads of the philosophers composing this of the thoughts, historical probably, which oc-
distinguished society. One of the original quali. cupied him, by moving on. On another, he had
fications for admission to membership, that the by chance discovered him in a retired angle, of a
candidate should be one hundred and seventy coal-yard not far from  the library, eating his
years of age, was some time ago modified to re- luncheon in the form of a cold bone, in the most
ceive parties who were literally not so old, but furious manner, no doubt, the result of his ex-
could be proven to have about the amount and treme desire to be at his loved labors again.
quality of wisdom and learning which persons "Such is the mysterious power of genius over
of that advanced age may be naturally supposed the worldly habits of its gifted possessors,"
to possess.  The consequence of this was an im- thought Moses.  "Naught but the sacred fire
mense influx of genius into the ranks of the in- which burns in their bosoms is felt by them. lon.
stitution from the various walks of society. As ors, fashions, appetites, ay, even the acute plea-
a proof of the talent which pervades the estab- sure of the possession of wealth or the acute
lishment, both in its internal management and pain of the want of it, are unnoticed."
external relations, we will simply cite the mas-  As these reflections rose in the mind of Moses
terly system of refection, by the impressive cere- he unconsciously was attracted toward the re-
monies of which most of the members, who, sati- treat of the scholar. The latter was pausing for
ated with their own'and every body else's learn- a moment from his labors, and as he looked up
lnug, would not otherwise have come, are in- he caught Bight of the spootacles and visage of
veigled into paying the society ten dollars a year our hero. The habitual respect for the presence
and walking two miles every fortnight to its of intellect, was perhaps traceable upon that
rooms to get a sandwich, which they might obtain countenance, for an indescribable but deeply
at home for nothing.                         marked shadow which passed rapidly over the
One day, after Moses had expended an hour or student's face, gave place to a sympathetic glance
two in the picture-gallery, studying the extraor- toward Moses, and he remarked:
dinary specimens of art, called Pre-Raphaelites,  "Fine day, sir. I hope it doesn't look like
and in the museum, hob-nobbing in imagination, rain."
with the mummied water-carriers, supposed to be  "Oh! no," replied Moses.
Pharaohs, he returned to the library-room.     "Take a seat, sir-take a seat," continued the
In one of the alcoves thereof, especially de- genius, concealing the appearance of an invita-
voted to rare histoties and documents connected tion by emerging from the alcove to look up at
with the American Revolution, sat a gentleman, the sky-light.
who appeared to be earnestly plunged in histori-  " I am afraid I am interrupting you in your
cal investigations of great difficulty and labor. labors, sir."
His table was covered with ancient documents  "Oh ! no, sir; no, sir," replied the literary gen-
and musty books, turned down for convenient tleman earnestly. " I am only too happy, sir.
reference, and while ever and anon he ran his Our labors, you know, at times require us to
fingers ecstatically through his grizzled hair, or pause, and the pleasure of your society, sir, will
darted at one of these references as some sudden be very acceptable, and-"
thought struck him, he disclosed to the observer  "Not at all! But I beg your pardon," con-
the eccentricity of genius, in an utter disregard tinted Moses.  " You were about to observe-"
for the apparently slight tenure of his habili- "Ah! yes; living at some distance from here,
ients. Frequently a disengaged end of a collar in Westchester, I was a little afraid of the rain.
played unnoticed beneath the ear, or the ends of I must have the exercise, you know," replied the
a yellow cravat hung at the back of the neck of stranger, fully started; "and besides that, the
this absorbed devotee of history.  The tight ladies, the silly creatures, must keep up their
dress-coat, apparently made in the times whose shopping with the carriage, and I tell them never
events he was investigating, was buttoned un- to mind me. In fact, I always walk! Fine ex-
evenly, and a large red handkerchief appeared ercise. The finest, I think, can be resorted to V"
from its rear pocket, in constant solicitude to es-  " How far from the city is your place situated
cape the confines of the gloomy keep. His pan- sir?" asked Moses, in quite an interested man-
taloons reached nearly to his ankles, and these nor, which appeared to please the stranger very
were encased by the legs of blue yarn stockings, much.
the remainder of which were hidden by a pair of  " Eight or nine miles from here, sir. The air
figured India-rubber shoes, apparently an experi- is delightful there. The little chicks-my little
mental effort of the first patentee of caoutchouc. ones, sir, are healthful, and riotous with its in-
Though his hair and whiskers were gray, and vigorating influence.  I determined that tme
lines of care and perhaps anxiety were visible country was the only place," continued the stran-
upon his brow, our hero could see that it was no ger, with increased volubility, "for a person wtha
old man, endeavoring to grow young again by family. There is a fine select school near, which
passing his time with the ghosts of his ancestry, but is quite popular among the gentlemen of the
person who twas still a young man enthusiasti- neighborhood. Mostly gentlemen's residences
ally fitted by natural tastes to teach the world about."


54:                               MR. WINKFIELD.
As he happened to mention the youthful con-  "I am sorry to disturb you, Mr. Lampson, and
stituents of his family, a look passed over his you, Mr. Winkfield," hete interrupted'the gen-
face which seemed to Moses for the moment to tiemanly librarian, who had approached, " but
look extremely like that of misery, and which my clerk informs me that the lecture-room below
was apparently so sincere and genuine, that our is on fire "
hero, while fumbling for his card to present to  "But in no less than three of these docu.
the stranger, experienced some difficulty in satis- ments there appears-" continued the scholar
factorily attributing it to the mere literary eccen- absorbedly, while grasping one of the books be-
tricity of the scholar. However, he was led to fore him-
that conclusion by the subsequent conversation  "God bless me!" interrupted Moses, "I am
of the other.                               fearful that the conflagration below will-"
" I beg pardon, I've left my cards. This is my  " In three, at least, the following statement
address, sir," said the scholar, writing his name appears," continued the scholar triumphantly.
upon the inside of an empty match-boxcover. " Mark you well that natural discrepancy which
"I shall be happy to see you, ahem, at our little tends rather to increase than diminish the credi.
farm I Indeed, Mrs. Lampson and myself will bility of the testimony, and-"    1
drive in for yousome day, if you will grant us the  " My dear Mr. Lampson," roared Moses, in
pleasure of your society at our plain country mingled astonishment and alarm, "My dear sir,
board I"                                    save yourself! The lecture-room  below has be.
Moses stowed away the box-cover with much come ignited and the flames may envelop-".
care, upon which he read the name of "Joseph  " Never mind, never mind, calm yourselves,
Lampson, Westchester County," and duly noticed gentlemen," said the gentlemanly librarian, again
the affability of the scholar.              approaching, "my clerk informs me that it is an
" Your labors are very confining, sir," said he, unfounded alarm, merely a smoke issuing from a
looking at the numerous papers and documents furnace."
spread upon the table; "but society and poster- , Here Mr. Lampson, as an especial mark of his
ity will be grateful to you for them, and such an prepossession in favor of Moses, offered to read
incentive must surely be sufficient to dissipate confidentially a few chapters of his work to him.
any feeling of weariness, after all !"      As the hour for his leaving had arrived, however,
"Very confining, indeed; but I do-not mind it a most irritating fact to him, no doubt, Mosee
at all. See," replied the other, warming into was obliged to decline the intellectual treat, and
great enthusiasm as he reverted to the subject of shortly left the premises.
his studies before him, "you have heard of my
paper on Simkinson, that-wily and principal con-                --
spirator in the Gates cabal against Washington.
Since that was read before the Society, sir, in           CHAPTER    XXIV.
pursuing my investigation, and from certain pe-          ,W,
culiar aspects of certain facts contained in vari-D-
ous of these documents which you now see be-  AT Mr. Wagbull's dinner-party, Moses met
fore you, I have discovered-I have discovered, many sensible persons and noted many valu-
sir," continued he, with an air of intense import- able ideas, which were exchanged upon the vari-
ance, "the true and only estimate which should ous topics of society, literature, friendship, and
be placed upon his character. In fact, Bancroft religion. The old lady, for the nonce, neglected
himself, whose ears it has reached by rumor, has him, as her time was quite engrossed with a new
privately confessed, to some friends of mine, that fatuity upon the part of the Irigh page-; who,
I have benefited history in a manner which he having a new suit of livery adorned with large
never would have thought of, and that the theory bright buttons and devised by the old lady her-
which I have placed upon Simkinson is only equal- self, appeared to be impressed with the conviction
ed in its bearing upon the general history of the that he was an army officer of distinction. What
Revolution, by the singular facts upon which it with constantly propping himself against the pil-
is founded. All these facts I have not formally lars of the dining-room, and screwing himself
promulgated. My object is not to create sensa- around to secure a rear view of his new habili-
tional turmoil in literary circles, although rumor ments, or foolishly standing before the beaufet-
has already been busy at work among historical glass with closed eyes, for the impossible purpose
scholars."                                   of seeing how he would look lying dead on the
" Ah! yes. I should imagine it," cried Mosesp field of battle, and the consequent neglect of his
"She is generally the forerunner of great benefits duties as assistant-retainer at the table, it raised
to literature and science."                 the old lady's exasperation to such a pitch that
" And, sir, I will now confide to you," con- she did not hesitate to give him short lectures,
tinued the old young scholar-" Oh!1 how I love in a shrill voice, at intervals of the whole ban-
history !" parenthetically ejaculated he, as if he quet.
had suddenly been called to give an account of  It had fallen to Mr. Toplady's lot to be
his labors before an inexorable judge, "it is my placed at dinner by the side of Miss De Pompen-
life, my passion. I can not-can not resist it. -I kops, the heiress of the old Dutch horticultural
will now confide to you and your honor, with the family of that name, and intimate friend of the
injunction of temporary secrecy, mind, mere tem- Waghulls.  The common stock and ancestral
porary secrecy, until my work is published and head of which the Pompenkops of Anmerica
secure from t'he wretched garbling of Numhead, boast, was an honest market-gardener, who came
the fact that Simkinson was not only of bilious tem- from Holland in the seventeenth century. The
perament and had-by the way, you are already stock and head, of which he boasted, was the.
aware probably, that his nose was broken in in- cabbage stalk, the head of cauliflower. Knicker-
fancy, but-"                                Ibocker, in reference to his professional enth-

MR. WINKFIELD.

siasm, says, "he was proud of his seed." His
posterity imitate him closely; so are they. Mr.
Toplady knew all this, but it was not the head of
cabbage but the sweet cabbage-rose, which now
represented that illustrious family at Mr. Wag-
bull's, if the vegetable simile may be pardoned;
and to continue the metaphor, we may say he de-
voted himself to besprinkling it with a rather
large-sized watering-pot of flattery. Owing partly
to his constitutional timidity and partly to the
constitutional hauteur of the young lady, we have
to chronicle that his efforts, both to dine and
to converse, were, perhaps, but partially success-
ful. He was afraid to be brilliant, lest he should
be cynical; and he was afraid to be good-na-
tured, lest he should be commonplace.    He
therefore vibrated, during the dinner, between
the two, and had the appearance of being neither.
Nevertheless, when he rejoined the ladies in the
drawing-room, his nature, inspirited by the re-
freshment of the repast, completely asserted it-
self; for he then had enough wit in his memory,
and imagination in his reason, to make himself
an object of decided distinction. On the same
principle that champagne is improved by ice, Miss
De Pompenkop's natural coldness had-the pleas-
ant effect of making his sparkling efforts to
entertain her extremely refreshing to those who
observed them.
During the course of the evening, Miss Wag-
bull again entertained Moses; and, in the enun-
ciation of some views upon the duties of her own
sex, she manifested such unaffected modesty, yet
such a nobleness of thinking, that it deeplyI
moved him. There was no truer eloquence thanI
the simplicity of her manner and language, and
the truths which she uttered seemed adorned'
and improved by a disposition in which innocence
and reason were united. She seemed to think
that, as the grand object of education was moral
excellence, domestic life was the best fitted to
cherish that of woman. Her self-conceit might
be corrected, her taste purified, her understand-
ing raised by moderate contact with the world;
but she seemed fitted by nature to best adorn the
interior of a private life; for her interests were
there.
"They do not seem to understand woman's
true duties," said- she, "who seek to do away, on
the ground of her dependence upon man, with
distinctions which increase the mutual benefits,
and enhance the satisfactions of life. In that
dependence lies, not only our security, but our
happiness." n         y o     s     b   Ou
There is nq imputation of inferiority in her
dependence upon man," interrupted Moses warm-
ly. "Each sex.has its proper excellencies, which
are derived from a mutual dependence."
"Yes, woman has her influence upon man,"
continued Bessie, blushing; "but the amiability
which captivates his spirit, the elegance which soft-
ens his manners in society, is derived from the
moral excellence, which the consciousness of her
real duties gives her. She can not long use her
boasted power over him, to no higher purpose
than the gratification of her vanity, her desire for
notoriety, or the indulgence of pleasure, without
producing disgust in him and danger for herself.
It seems to me, therefore, that those of our sex
who have an ambition to shine in society, as it is
called, commit a fundamental error. The virtues
of woman have nothing dazzling; it is only her

vices that can be conspicuous, and she may thus
become, not an object of contempt or hate, but
of compassion; for even one imprudence upon
her part may tarnish a thousand excellent quali-
ties. Yet it should not be accounted a hardship,
but a privilege, that her character is so delicate
as to be sullied by the slightest breath of calumny,
and that the stain is indelible; for by this she is
led to shrink from all those irregularities, those
notorieties, which impair her excellence in the
performance of her duties."
" And there is another reproach which may be
cast upon us," continued she earnestly, "and
which in turn might ask its reformation from
you, and that is, the habit of constant falsehood
of living to conceal ourselves. As we are in-
structed from infancy to please you, we have no
other care but to conceal that which will be dis-
pleasing to you. The yoke of constant dissimu-
lation has been imposed on woman by her posi-
tion; but to show herself as ehe is, to frankly
confess her faults, is what a true woman longs for.
When you convince us that you love truth, we
will tell it to you always-always !"
" Were all women as you, Miss Wagbull,"
said Moses, deeply approving her candor, "they
would lose nothing by doing so."
" Woman's ambition is to be loved," resumed
she. 1"If you wilt say she becomes lovely by her
sincerity, the sex would strive unaffectedly in this;
but you worship the charms of her person, the
illusion of, her manners, and each tries who shall
charm and deceive you the most. As for our
wars, our jealousies, our little animosities and
bickerings, their consequences are perhaps not
more serious than yours," concluded she, smiling;
"and when you say that something more solid
shall take the place of our frivolous tastes and
humors, the latter will also disappear."
" Yes, and I now see that there are women
who can nobly rise from under the pressure of a
disadvantageous system of education and of so-
ciety, and exhibit the most decided marks of a
vigorous understanding and correct judgment,"
said Moses in sincere admiration.
CHAPTER XXV.
MOSES nEcEIVES AN ODD NOTE.
UPON his invitation to dinner at Mr. Wagbull's,
Moses had procured a very beautiful japonica,
which he intended as a peace-offering to the
grandmother thereat. He was met at the door
of his lodgings by Mrs. Hetherington, who
feigned great admiration of it. Moses very gal-
lantly forewent the intended onslaught on the
old lady's animosity, and presented his young
hostess with the flower. Her husband appeared
from his hiding-place on the kitchen stairs, as
soon as the innocent Moses repaired to his room.
They said nothing at the moment, and soon
sought their bower.
"Hush! There he goes out I" said the count
at last, when Moses, having donned his dress-
coat, left for Mr. Wagbull's residence, .
" He is going .to a party to-night. What a
beautiful flower this is!" said the counters,
Yes," replied the count briefly.
"le is very kind, and certainly has taste,"


MR. WINKFIELD.                         57

56                       MR. WINKFIELD.

continued the countess, with woman-like weak-
ness.
" H'm! Well, perhaps he has," replied the
husband somewhat gruffly.
" And, what a pity it is he should undertake
to be so bad. He was so pleasant to me, when
he gave it me, and-"
" Ma-am!" cried the count sternly; "Mary
Matilda Watson !"
" What is the matter, Rainsford ?"
"You think to deceive me, ma'am?     You
would deceive your legally constituted husband ?"
"Why, dear, what do you mean?"
"But I'll thwart you, madam; I'll thwart
you," exclaimed the husband, jumping about in
an alarming manner. "I'll thwart you and the
partner of your schemes! I'll call the police!
I'll have the assistance of the authorities, of
aunt, the sheriff, with military aid, if neces.
scary !"
Here the inhappy'young man flew about in a
frenzy, which a too vivid imagination had pro-
duced, slapped things indiscriminately, threw the
japonica upon the floor, jumped upon it vigor-
ously, and dared his wife to attempt to stop him
in his frantic career.
" You have a plan !" roared he to his aston-
ished, frightened little lady.
"A plan! I-a-what-what do you mean ?"
" You have a planu  a preconcerted, pro-con-
cocted plan !"
"t ' haven't," said the eqnfused Mrs. Hether-
ington vehemently.
"You-have !" said the count, in furious reek-
lessness.  " You. intend to run away with this
Winkfield to-morrow morning at half-past six.
I see it all!"1
"Heavensy! I don't ! What ! you accuse your
own wife of-"
" You do !" reiterated the count. "Aha! I
see confession in your eye !"
" You don't. You are mad-you, my hus-
band, to-"' .
" Do you mean to say," asked the count,
"that you have not made an arrangement with
this miserable ravening rooster and unprincipled
wretch, to-to desert me P"
No!" exclaimed the wife hysterically.
"Then you 4on't love him, Mary Watson, and
admire his devilish flowers ?'
" 0 Rainsford !"
" And vou don't think him handsome, and like
his legs?"'
" No. He is a nasty, good-for-nothing, ugly
man!" cried the wife energetically, amid her
tears; " and I hate him!"-
" 0 my darling wife !" exclaimed the repent-
ant lord in sudden remorse. "Have I been
rash?  Have I done you a wrong ?"
"My Rainsford ! my own Rainsford !"
" Now hushed be every fear. Where, oh!
where is my own wife, that I may once more hold
her to my bosom!",
The cloud had passed. After some sacred mo-
ments, they were sufficiently restored to be able
to concert together further defense against the
common enemy.
" We must continue to dissemble," said the
count- " We must treat the heartless spoilern
with the smile on our lips, yet with vengeanc
ready in our hearts. When tihe fell ruffian, witi
impious, hands would snatch you hence, th~

atrocious villain shall fall beneath my arms-and
legs-or if not mine alone, Bridget's !'"
" But let us warn him. Let us write a letter
and warn him. It may have the effect of stop-
ping him."
"A letter, eh ?"
"A letter, and sign it as if it came from some
one who saw his wicked plans-anonymously P"
" You are right, Mollid. The very thing, if
we make it strong. We will make the wretch
tremble in his shoes, even now.",
That evening, returning from the dinner-party,
Moses found on his dressing case the following
epistle addressed to him, and headed:
ATROcIoUs MEMBER OF SOCIETY!
" Think you that the glance of your eye, like
that of the basilisk, shall transfix your victim ?
Let the evil spirit, assuming a human form
wreathed with sunny smiles, beware! E'en now,
despite superstitious dread, may he be de-
nounced and hurled from his station. If he may
be tortured by the unceasing dread of detection,
shall he not soon feel the stings of a conscience
that knows no rest ? Stamped in characters of
fire, the warning comes! Deception, treachery,
machinations, schemer, beware ! The eyes of
society are upon you !"
(Signed)
" JuNius AND MANY OTHER CITIZENS.
" N. B.-It is useless for you to attempt to dis-
cover the boy who brings this. He has been
properly rewarded and has willingly returned to
a secure obscurity-we may say-in another na-
tion."
This was the most extraordinary and unintelli-
gible piece of correspondence that Mr. Wink-
field had ever received. And the inquiries which
he made respecting its delivery, of Mr. and Mrs.
Hetherington, only made it the more so.
CHAPTER XXVI,
MOSES AND MR. TOPLADY ATTEND A PICNIC AND
FESTIVAL'Or THE ASBURY SUNDAY-SCHlOOL.
IT was a fine May morning, and Moses was
seated with his uncle, in the latter's office.
" It is a splendid day, Moses; I wish I were in
the country, this morning. I feel a longing to
be in the country," reiterated Mr. Toplady.
"So do I, uncle," replied Moses, snuffing the
- green fields and May flowers in imagination.
, Here a very ragged urchin entered the room.
"Have your boots shined, sir ?"
" No."
"Would you like to buy couple-er tickets to a
Sunday-school festivial?" continued the boy de-
murely.
" To a what?"
"Sunday-school picnic, sir."'
-   "Eh? Where did you get them, boy?" asked
Mr. Toplady, "from the teachers ?"
"Yes, sir."
"Eh, you are sure you haven't stolen them
from some place, or some little boy in the street 2"9
asked Mr. Toplady again, auspicious of the
youth's shabby appearance.
" Oh ! no, sir," replied the latter, and there.-
eupon he commenced the well-known juvenile re-

frain of "-Oh! the Sunday-school, the Sunday-
school.!" to prove the legitimacy of his connec-
tion with the matter.
"Never mind, that will do, that will do," hasti-
ly said Mr. Toplady, wincing. "Quite a coinci-
dence, Moses.  It is a picnic and festival of the
Asbury Sunday-school, Rev. Mr. Knox's Metho-
dist Episcopal, and is for this very day, ten
o clock," continued he, reading one of the tick-
ets. "It is not aristocratic, but respectable,
Moses; -if you were to go, you would have -an
opportunity Qf seeing a new set of honest peo-
ple from the other side of town."
Ah ! I should like that," replied Moses.
It seems, it is to be held in a grove, on the
west bank of the Hudson," proceeded Mr. Top-
lady, examining the tickets again.  "Rather in-
definite. However, it will be a pleasant little ex-
cursion. What say you, Moses, do you wish to
go? The sail upon the river will be just the
thing for us, and we can simply look on, you
know, not actively participate."
"Well, we will, then," said Moses.
"Here,. boy, we'll take them."
The boy received the money and disappeared.
As they had no time to lose, they started at once
for the steamboat. Upon reaching the latter,
they observed upon its decks many male adults,
rather rough in exterior, and, without doubt, the
fathers and brothers of the scholars.
" Where are the children and ladies ?" in-
quired Moses of his uncle.
"The boat is small, and somewhat crowded.
I suppose they have assembled in the ladies'
cabin. The Sunday-school is not yet on board,
sir ?" asked Mr. Toplady of a gentleman, smok-
ing a segar near him.*
" No," replied the latter, taking a curious sur-
vey of. Moses and his uncle. "They are not
going in this boat. They are -on the ground,
and went early this mornin', to have no fail !"
"But this is the boat for the picnic and festi-
val of the Asbury Church ?" asked Mr. Top-
lady.
"Eh? Hullo, I say, Sam," exclaimed    the
stranger, pulling around a friend near by, "these
here gents wants to know if this here boat is for
picnic and festival. ,What do you think of it?"
"Let 'em find out !' replied the other gruffly,
afeer a short survey of our friends. "If they
come here to make a muss, let 'em find out. I
know a peeler, Jim, when he's got store-clothes
on and when he han't."
" But, my friends," continued Mr. Toplady,
"we ask merely for information."
"I bought my ticket for the Asbury Sunday-
school picnic and festival, and this here was de-
signated the boat to me, by the parties," replied
the other. "I don't know nothin' more about it,
I don't say no more; you'd better go ashore if
you don't think this here is the boat for a picnic
and festival."
" You won't make nothing' by staying, " con-
tinued the first stranger superciliously.
But we have tickets, and thought we would
like to see the picnic," courteously continued
Toplady, in propitiation.
" You an't peelers in mufety ?" asked the sec-
ond stranger.
" What ?" asked Mr. Toplady.
"I say, you an't peelers in mufety ?" reiterat-
ed the stranger, raising his voice.,,

" Excuse me, my friend," continued Mr. Top-
lady, "but you observed-"
" Look here, plugs, you can't raise no muss on
to me, leastwise until this here boat is off. You
can't raise no muss on to me, nor Bill, nor no one
else here," repeated tle stranger strongly, and
moving off with te other.
"I think we had better go ashore, uncle ; I
think we had better give it up," said Moses.
"Don't you ?"
" Yes, perhaps we had. GraciousI there is
the boat moving. We can't, Moses."
"What did he mean by peelers ?" now asked
Moses dubiously.
"I don't know. I am very sorry there are
disagreeable characters on board ;, I didn't ex-
pect them. However, there are surly people
everywhere," replied Mr. Toplady.
" If we had been earlier, perhaps, we might
have gone with the Sunday-school."
"That is what I supposed would be the ar-
rangement Moses, of course."
The boal was now in the stream. It was much
crowded, and Moses and his uncle concluded to
move into a quiet corner near the wheel, from
the deck upon which they were.
"They will get in order directly, and then the
ladies will come up from the cabin below, and
there will be, no doubt, a dance or two in the
saloon."
"Yes, and we are in a capital place to look at
the scenery in the mean time. On the whole, it
is fortunate we did not stay back," said Moses.
Most of the people appeared to have assem-
bled forward.
"dWhat a delightful day I" exclaimed Mr. Top-
lady, invigorated by the breeze , nnd forgetting
the late disagreeable conversation. "These little
excursions are very beneficial affairs to the city.
They give the yeomanry and working classes an
opportunity to restore their health and to relieve
their spirits from the jaded monotony of daily
labor. They are truly benevolent occasions, and
it is not unbecoming in a gentleman now and
then to patronize them."
The boat rapidly passed from the region of the
ferry-boats, and soon left the city in the rear,
while the green heights of Weehawken and the
Palisades began to bound the landscape on one
side, and those of Fort Washington on the other.
At this point, a united and vigorous cheer from
the front part of the boat greeted our friends'
cars. Sonic youthful -gentlemen within their
sight on the after-deck, uttered a sympathetic cry
thereat, and one ejaculated: "It is a go this
time. No stopping this time, by -!"
Hereupon another cheer arose again from be-
low, which immediately elicited another yell front
the parties nearer by, and two or three of the
latter appeared to have been suddenly afflicted
with a severe attack of terpsichorean frenzy.
While Moses and his uncle from their recess
were confusedly observing this performance, an
indescribable noise and disorder arose, which
seemed to be in all parts of the b6at. Invitations
to drink, boisterous laughter, and extremely for-
cible language, as if on the part of fifty people
at once, assailed the hearing of our friends.
"Gracious ! There certainly can be no0 ladies
upon this boat ; for the honor of humanity and
decency, I hope not 1" exclaimed Moses indig-
nantly. " What do they mean ? Is this a


58                               MR. WINKFIELD.
specimen of the relaxation of the New-York pop- grossly insulted by Mr. Toplady, and e very
elation                                     properly had sought out the latter, accompanied
1oIt must be confessed it is, Moses. Tiey by a small crowd of admiring friends, to prompt-
certainly haven't much manners to boast of. ly wipe out the stain upon his character as a
But weyare mistaken. There are no ladies on gentleman and high-toned citizen.
the boat, and that is, perhaps the cause of this  Mr. Toplady and Moses rose, and accompanied
impropriety."                              the crowd to the after-deck. .
But in the cause of religion, going to a Sun-  "My dear sir, and .gentlemen," said Mr. Top-
day-school celebration !,                 lady agitatedly. "I disclaim having had any in-
It is certainly coarse and unreflecting."  tention but that of merely seeking information."
Their conversation was momentarily arrested by  "You are a d-d peeler. lie's a peeler in
theappearance of a knot of persons on the after- disguise, boys V" replied the fellow-citizen.  I
deck, who were wrangling evidently upon some  "I am not!" said Mr. Toplady strongly.
point, and evidently backing up their respective " What do you mean by peeler? I am not, my
opinions by offering and accepting wagers there- dear sir.".
on. While our friends instinctively lent their  "You are out of the Metropolitan limits, and I
attention to this, a gong was sounded and. there will lick you!" continued the other determinedly.
was a momentary lull  Then the following high-  "What does he take us for, gentlemen ?"
ly interesting announcement was made on both asked Mr. Toplady in bewilderment. "What is
decks, with accompaniments on that severe in- it he wishes ?"
strument.                                     "Air you a pollis detective or air you not ."
"Gents, the ring-pools is, now offered in the said one of the crowd with a suspicious look.
cabin on the front lower deck; a cock-fight will  " Good heavens, no ! who said I was?"
take place 'meditly after the sale. Call up to the  "I can lick you. I can lick you anyhow.
Cap'n's office and take your chances, gents, afore He suitedd me, boys, and I'll take his life'I"  And
we gets on the ground!',                   this ferocious threat was adorned by an allusion
"1Good God, Moses, they appear to be talking to Mr. Toplady as the offspring of canine parents.
about a prize-fight, which is going to take place  "Look here, whoever you are !' here interrupt-
somewhere !" ejaculated Mr. Toplady in conster- ed Moses courageously.  "You wish to have an
nation, returning to Moses again from a knot encounter with some one, I rce, You intend to
toward which he had edge .                  have it with this ge-ntleman here. But you shall
"What!"                                 not, by heavens, not until you have had one with
We have been deceived, Moses. The pie- me, you scoundrelV"
nic is a sham. Heavens! but we are in for it,  "Hooray ! That's fair !" exclaimed the crowd
and we must dissemble. Yes, we are on the.way in high admiration.
to a prize-fight,                            "What do you mean by thin gross attach, you
Luckily they were in a retired place, and in it infernal rowdy! and you, sir," continued Moses to
they cowered for the next half-hour ; and we say, the friend of the party, who, during the whole
cowered, for the scene which continued during scene bad been gradually encroaching upon
that time was- enough to make any person of him with inauspicious intentions.  "You can't
taste and sensibility feel unwell, and wish he had intimidate me, sir! You can't intimidate me ..
not come, to say the least. It is unnecessary to  The crowd respected Moses's pluck enough to
particularize it. It was enough for our heroes, have interfered, and prevented any unfair impul-
that it was, most of the time, a scene of blood- sive action upon the part of the opposite cham-
shed, though principally from the nose. As they pions. But these parties themselves, as usual in
neither of them took much interest in fowls,-ex- such cases, wished to prolong their pleasure by
cept when they were cooked, it was quite natural having some more preliminary wrangling., o a
for them to refrain from  visiting the contest, long imitative scene of polite sneering was
which  liberal-minded  gentlemen, enthusiastic visited upon our exercised friends by them.
upon the improvement of the feathered race, had This affectation of genteel sarcasm was sustained
instituted upon the front deck. They likewise as long as they refrained from replying, but when
thought there was plenty of time, after they they endeavored to deprecate the excitement
reached the ground to take what chances they of the others, the vituperation on fundamental
wished in " ring-pools."                    principles was renewed. At last a couple of rings
When the cock-fight was terminated, and it were formed. Mr. Toplady's forced engagement
was most conclusively, by the cowardly dying of had already commened, and lie had miraculously
one of the feathered combatants, after a sneaking warded off one or two blows, and mentally ejacu-
defense of his interests for a half-hour, his lated as many prayers for deliverance from the
owner was kindly knocked overboard, that he contest, when a young man who had recently
might be enabled to cool his excitement. The arrived from the forward-deck, rushed in between
boat stopped and went back; still Moses and his him and his adversary, and by this timely act ar-
uncle were doubtful whether the rescue was ac- rested also the progress of an interesting little
complished, and the pleasant idea that they piece of business in which Moses was bout being
might, perhaps, now very properly regard them- engaged. He was a bright-eyed, cheerful, and
selves as accomplices to a murder, lent new in- active young man; 4ind what Was especially
teiest to their situation.  While revolving in gratifying to Moses and his uncle, seemed totbe
their consciences this eminent thought, Mr. Top- a gentleman, or, at least, acquainted with the
lady was suddenly accosted and defied to mortal attributes of one. At the same time he appeared
combat, by the party from whom he had asked to be' very well-known, and quite popular among
information at the dock. Though having be- the surrounding spotig gentry. By his effors
come highly inflamed with wine, this gentleman the difficulty was amicably arranged. ie in-
still knew enough to recollect that he bad been formed the men that Moses and his uncle were

MR. WINKFIELD.-     .9

not improper personages, neither peelers nor in
formers, but both literary gentlemen, connoisseurs
in the turf and ring, and amateur reporters, one
for the liberal religious press, and the other
present on behalf of the ladies' organ of the
Bloomer movement. He induced them to accept
the disclaimers of our friends at any offense inten-
tionally offered, and by the masterly stroke of in-
viting the entire crowd to refresh itself at the bar,
actually placed our friends upon an enviable foot-
ig for future influence and popularity in the
New-York sporting world.
. In company with Mr. Barnard, their jovial
rescuer, they now felt at ease enough to rove
about the boat and mingle in the festivities.
From the fact that lie had made a successful and
honorable stand in his late encounter, not only
having warded off his antagonist's blows, but
actually struck out twice himself, and seized with
the propensity for imitation, Mr. Toplady fre-
quently doubled up his fists, and perhaps would
have joined inthe little pugilistic entertainments
offered intermittently thereafter, if he had not
been restrained by Mr. Barnard's advice, and
Moses's request. He therefore confined himself
to the little'ingenuities of feigning to express his
admiration, or high sense of the ludicrous, at
some horrible story of physical mutilation and
mangling, related with great gusto by adjacent
parties, or of loudly expressing his impatience at
the delay of the boat in reaching her destination,
The temporary demoralization of our hero had
not reached this lively stage, owing to a slight
indisposition he was suffering from the effects of
a segar, which he had deemed it judicious t-o
smoke under the circumstances. le still made
quite a successful attempt at self-degradation, by
talking horse and dog with the numerous sport-
ing men, aldermen, and ex-prize-fighters, to
whom lie was subsequently introduced, and by
sagaciously making use of what knowledge he
had picked up on the boat, in discussing with
them the noble art, and the approaching contest.
Guided by his genius he authoritatively sustained
or denied, as the occasion demanded, the little
scientific points therein, of which he had not the,
slightest idea; and when two of the parties dif-
fered, he at once concluded to side with the
largest and most muscular, another instance of'
his innate genius, and the judicious employment.
under trying circumstances, of his knowledge of
human nature.
Mr. Barnard received with a highly pleased
air these  demonstrations  of his  new-made
friends, whose predilections he increased by
his lively manners, hei witty appreciation of the
Inferior animals present, and by succeeding acts
of friendship, wherein lie introduced himself as a
member of a well-known and respectable family
of the city, and gave them much beneficialjinfor-
mation upon surrounding and other' social affairs.
The boat was steered for a rickety wharf in a
secluded bay of the river.  The crowd disem-
barked, including Moies and Mr. Toplady, who
acceded to Mr. Barnard's solicitations, and to his
suggestion that it would be judicious for them
to sustain their assumed character as reporters.
The contest at once took place between Bandy
the Kid, and the Rev. M. Thomas Slotmons, so
called, the one from his frisky agility, and the
other from his long countenance, and general1
clerical appearance. For the particulars thereof,

we will refer our readers to that celebrated au-
thority in such matters, the New-York Clipper,
merely mentioning a few of the striking points
'*ourselves.
At twelve M., the men shied their nob cover-
ers into the ring, and shook their bunches of
- fives at the scratch. The betting was five to
- four on Slommons, as the Kid showed too beefy,
being fourteen stone, three pounds, and four
. ounces, or about two ounces over his usual fight-
log weight.
1st Round. Slommons made the opening shot
on the chopper, followed by a straight deliv-
ery on the left peeper, the Kid being short in
his returns, though he planted a rib-bender and
got away. This brought on some rattling ex-
changes to a close, when they fibbed away at the
ribs, and in the wrestle for the fall Slommons
was undermost.
2d Round. Both shots went over the shoulder
and stopped upon the stmellers of the two
seconds, who  had approached too near from
professional anxiety, which elicited cries of
"foul" from both.
5th Round. In this round some very rapid
passages ensued, the dial being the target, when
both pugs got to in-fighting, and Slommons
threw his man heavily.
6th Round. First ruby for the Kid; the
clergyman having left his gate open, the kid'came
in and politely knocked on his parlor door to
inquire for his health.
10th Round. Both lively, fighting fast at
the ribs, shiftily. The Kid invested slightly on
the bread-basket; Slotmmons countering on the
left, and placing the Kid's tob in chateery
leisurely delivered several hundred taps tiereo,
raising a bump. Both lively, however, and
rallying to the ropes get down side by side con-
versing on political matters, and Mrs. Lanigan's
fashionable blow-out. The succeeding rounds up
to the fortieth well-contested, though both dod-
ders were frequently short in their deliveries and
compelled to spar for bellows-ease,
40. The Kid's nose spattered over his face? by
a most beautiful, scientific, and powerful straight
from the clergyman's right. This daring use of
the right showed his genius, and aroused a
thumping clap from all the sharps present.
56. Bandy closed his left eye permanently.
Some good half-arm blows at the ropes by Slom-
mons, but Kid finally sent in one of his catty-
pults, which resulted iti a double somersault by
the clergyman over the ropes. Cries of " foul"
at its stoppage by his buffer, who caught hinm by
left walker, but declared all moral by referees,
as being out of ring.
63. Both down and forgetful-like.
64. Both men pounded on the head with um-
pire's slung-shot, and a glass of turpentine ad-
ministered to each, to bring them to time.
64-70. All in favor of Slommons, the Kid
not having been well since sixty-third round.
(NOTE. There is one thing which we here take
occasion to protest against, both as gentlemen
and lovers of the manly art. We trust that
every true, every honest upholder of that noble
science will sustain us in 'discountenancing a
practice which we consider is fast beconmitn a
foul stain and injury to the ring, and through
that, to the best interests of humatiity We
simply regard it as a disgraceful outrage to de-


MR. WINKFIELD.

MR. WINKFIELD.

cency, and any man who has any self-respect
will not be guilty of conduct which we deem de-
spicable, whether intentional or unintentional.'
We allude to the innovation of outsiders talking
with the seconds of the men and offering them
pea-nuts ! The conversation blunts their sense
of responsibility, and the pea-nuts distract their
attention from their duties. The whole thing
strikes at the very vitality of the art, and should
hereafter be discouraged by every one.)
70th round. Kid feinted with his left, got
down on knee, caught clergyman by rising blow
under left ear, and seizing him by belt, sat down
on ground and went through a remarkable pro-
cess with him. It was asserted by many of those
who could see through whirl of strikers and
walkers, to have been that of turning him inside
out and scraping him. Referees distracted and
umpire agitated, but as clergyman turned up in
natural condition, decision of " foul" by umpire
avoided.
71. Increase of mysterious, energy of Kid.
Again caught Slommons by walkers, and thrash-
ed him for several moments on the ground. Not
foul, as blows received on nob and above the
belt. No particular effect on clergyman, not be-
ing meaty, except slight ringing in his sound-
boxes, sand-swallowing, and dirty face.  Rose
and smiled.
71-108. All in favor of clergyman, who ap-
peared to have been refreshed by rounds seven-
ty and seventy-one. The Kid wonderfully cranky
and powerful, but wild and continued grog-fight-
ing of the air.
109th and last round. In this round the Kid
violated the rules by attempting to strike below
belt. He then followed it up decisively, by ad-
ministering a severe kick upon one of the aston-
ished clergyman's shins, another in his abdomen,
a third upon the other shin, and incidentally
made a reckless attempt to take advantage of
his improper proceedings, by biting off one of his
antagonist's ears.
At the shout of "foul !" which marked this
illegitimate and unexpected conduct as the final
triumph of Slommons, the disgusted bottle-holder
of the Kid was meditating the disagreeable neces-
sity of throwing up the sponge, when he was vio-
lently thrown up himself by his principal. . The
latter had been fairly pounded into insanity. He
dashed right and bgft through the crowd and start-
ed in the obliquity of derangement for the.river,
but was secured ere he reached it. The two re-
porters thought it professionally unnecessary to
return again from the steamboat to which they had
fled, but the crowd reissenbled on the spot, and
the fight was given to the Rev. Mr. Slommons.
The gentlemen who had risked their money upon
the skill and endurance of the unfortunate Kid,
immediately commenced to relieve their feelings
of loss by indiscriminately assaulting the backers
of the victor. To our friends' utter amazement
and fear, the whole Sunday-school fought all the
way back to the boat, and continued the conflict
upon its decks after it left the spot. 'Such was
the disorder, that Moses, Mr. Toplady, and Mr.
Barnard very rationally secreted themselves in a
coal-hole, afd the captain of the boat, overcome
with fears for the safety of himself and his yes
sed, run it ashore upon the other side of the(
river. Here the scholars finally scattered in al
directions, the losers to indemnify themselves by

the gentle process of robbing sequestered houses
and wayfarers, afid the winners generally assist-
ing them, in preference to being longer belabored
over the head, and at the same time indulging
their enthusiasm at the result of the day, in the
playful collateral proceedings of breaking open
wine-cellars and bars, smashing furniture and
windows, and insulting protestants thereto ere
they proceeded to lie down for the night, or to
seek the different stations on the route to betake
themselves to town.
Alarmed at the abrupt landing of the steamer,
Moses and Mr. Toplady had emerged with and
become separated from  their friend, Mr. Bar-
nard. The latter hastened forward to generous-
'ly assist the captain in his difficulties, but the
former were forcibly shoved ashore in the midst
of a crowd of infuriated combatants, of whose
blows they seemed to have become the common
centre. Their deliverance from this mailstrom
of passion could only have been miraculous, and
even thus was accomplished at the expense of
many terrible contusions of the person and lace-
rations  of habiliments.  They  bewilderedly
sought the railway track, and ran for over three
miles in the twilight to the nearest settlement,
their speed being materially increased by the
fearful knowledge that they were chased by five
of their fellow-excursionists, maddened with drink
and disappointment, and armed with a select ar-
mory of deadly weapons.
On reaching the Evercroft House by the evening
train, Mr. Toplady gave a feeble smile at the
important events in which he had been engaged,
and fell insensible. His nervous temperament
and sense of respectability could hold out -no
longer against the terrible shattering they had
received, and his nephew was not relieved from
apprehension for the safety of both his mental
and physical constitution for two or three day'
thereafter.
CHAPTER XXVII.
LUCID TIEWS OF MR. BARNARD UPON MARRIAGE.
WE may say that Mr. Toplady, for the first
time in his life, at least since-well, since his
boyhood, yielded to the witchery of a young and
charming woman. In his visit to Mr. Wagbuill's
with Moses, upon which occasion he met with
the dignified Miss De Pompenkops, he became as
it were unconsciously, and in spite of himself,
interested in her. That the charm worked grad-
ually and subtly upon him there is no doubt, for it
was not until he found himself unconsciously
studying the polish of manners, and all the minor
arts of society, that he reflected there was cer-
tainly some particular object for his enthusiasm,
some passionate ardor, of which such conduct
was the result. Was he, Toplady, in love at first
sight ? And was that love tlie fervor and intoxica-
tion which shows 'how little reality it possesses
by the ease with which it is forgotten, a mere
effervescence ? He would see whether it was, and
he determined to call immediately upon the proud
-descendant of the old Dutch vegetable family,
and ask of his own conduct there a solution of
1 the question. He did so, but she was out, and
he left his card. Still he found his feelings

61

60

out, too, before he got home.- 0 thou first know lots of fellows who get along well enough
love of the awakening heart!  That is, first without one."
for a long time. 0 thou love ! descended of hea-  "Ahi! yes. Your friends are without doubt of
ven and light. Love, that can render the strong- your age. One may certainly be well enough
est weak, and make the proudest man yield like supported in the cares of life at that age without
a reed to the faintest breath! She must be his.- the help of a partner," replied Mr. Toplady.
he could not live without her-his wife! The  "Well, I don't know about their supporting
first time the thought of really having one, per- themselves alone," replied Mr. Barnard. "Some
haps, had ever swept across his mind. He start. of 'em find it pretty hard work to manage that,
ed, and passed his hand across his forehead. and it is the only reason they entertain the idea
That one word awakened him to partial common. of matrimony at all, I imagine."
sense. He knew that the rich heiress, the high-  "Perhaps I may grant the infelicity of too
,born maiden, the beautiful woman, was intended early marriages," continued Mr. Toplady, as if in
by her famiy for the Prince of Wales, but he.- earnest soliloquy. " It must be surely an unhappy
he made dn estimate of his possessions, surveyed thing to be married, and discover too late what
his features in the glass, and descended to dine nothing but the voluntary blindness of youthful
and gain further information, in company with passion before concealed. Dreadful!"
his nephew, Mr. Titman, and Mr. Barnard, their  "That your wife's mamma is too much for
guest. He was enthusiastic, yet withal serious. you! Yes, it is a floorer," replied Mr. Barnard.
The topic of marriage had become an exceeding-  " Well, I do not refer so much to that. Still,
ly solemn one to him, while it was a highly most philosophers have agreed, very wisely I
amusing one to the other gentlemen, in particu- think, that the longer time of maturer marriages
lar to the jovial Mr. Barnard, to whom the vari- will increase experience, and wider views will
ous forms of connubial infelicity had been thor- allow better opportunities of inquiry and selec-
oughly presented in the many examples thereof tion."'
in the extensive circle of his friends and ac-  "One would think, Toplady," said Mr. Titman
quaintances. - -with a kind of jocose air, " that 'you were really
To these he at once referred, when the conver. entertaining a design of trying matrimony your-
sation turned upon the interesting subject to self."
which Mr. Toplady.cleverly led it, and the con- "And is there any reason why I should not,
delusion of his induction therefrom was a respect- sir ?" asked Mr. Toplady warmly.
ful concession that "the institution of marriage  "Oh! no. None whatever, sir; none, I assure
was perhaps good for society as a general thing, you," replied Mr. Titman.
but that it was rather hard on the individual."  " Well, sir, what then would be your objections
" But, sir," replied Mr. Toplady, "the good of to such a proceeding -upon my part ?" continued
the whole is the same with the good of all its Mr. Toplady sternly.
parts. If society be benefited, so is the indi-  "Oh! I should not feel myself authorized to
vidual."                                    object. By no means," responded Mr. Titan.
" That is what my Aunt Julia says, when Uncle  "And is there any one who would be, siri?  Is
Ed complains at the breakfast-table of her run. there any one ?" continued Mr. Toplady, glaring
ning away from him to a soiree the night before,' upon Mr. Titman,
replied Mr. Barnard.  'If I devote myself to  "Oh! no. I think you misunderstand me,
society, Mr. Wilson,',says she, ' I am devoting my- Mr. Toplady," replied Mr.. Titman, who began to
self to you. What is gocd for the whole is good feel that it was a rather serious turn he had
for the part.' So he in revenge comes'home tight given to the conversation, after all.
from the club next evening, and excuses himself  "Very likely, very likely, sir. It is very sin-
as a member of society by saying, 'What is good gular I should have had occasion to, sir," again
for the part, is good for the whole'"      said Mr. Toplady with lingering irritation.
" But you will grant that men and women were  Here the conversation was resumed by Mr.
made to live together ?" continued Mr. Toplady. Barnird, who had been trifling with his glass of
"Yes," replied Mri. Barnard. "But that is wine during this short episode. And he con-
the very thing Uncle Ed thinks is a very unfor, tinted to cite his eccentric avuncular relative as
tunate arrangemei%. You ought to know him. authority for his position, and by the many forci-
He is a high old sockdolager."              ble sayings of that henpecked philosopher, made
"I should he very happy," replied Mr Top. Mr. Toplady actually tremble with agitation and
lady rather forcedly. "Our acquaintance with misgivmig at a theory, which he himself had so
each other would be mutually instructiveperhaps." recently adopted, and caused him to decline par.
" Yes, Uncle Ed conceives it to be the duty ticipating in Mr. Titman's proposition to visit
of every man to look out for his wife after lie has that classic resort, the hall of negro minstrelsy,
one, but he says he wished he had looked out for in order that he might more earnestly spend the
Aunt Julia before he was married."          evening in strengthening his hopes and judgment
" His sentiment is correct. What is more de. by an undisturbed deliberation in the quiet pre-
lightful than to live, feeling sympathy for another, cincts of his chamber.
and constantly contributing to another's felicity?
What more miserable than to exist without ex-
citing another's sympathy, to be afflicted with-
out tasting the balm of pity?  Such state, the        CHAPTER XXVIII.
philosopher has said, is not independence of the
world, bumt exclusion from its chief happiness," MOSES THINKS THlE OUNT DRUNE, AND THE COUNT
continued Mr. Toplady eloquently. TnINKs MOSES CRAZY.
"'But I have not seen the practical necessity By their reliance upon each other amid their
of having a wife," continued Mr. Barnard. "I fears, Mr. and Mrs. Hetherigton became some-


62

MR. WINKFIELD.

what assured for the time being against that ter- I first learned to amuse myself in thiS way at col-
rible hypocrisy, which in the borrowed guise of lege," continued Moses.  "Being lonely, you
honest friendship, studied to lure them to its know, I used tol devote my leisure to it, and have
toils. Moses received his friends in his apart- practiced more or less ever smce. Since I have
ments in the evening, and frequently upon the been here I have felt the need of an instrument
ears of his intended victims, the heartless laugh to respond to this desire."
of the would-be miscreant might be heard, joining  " Sir-r-r !"
with that of his associate revelers, perhaps at the  " You have noticed probably, I have attempt.
ribald disclosure of his sinister intentions, at a ed to elicit a few soft responses from yours, when
moment when inflamed with the bowl. Yet by in your parlor."
dissembling and watching, they rested in tempo- "(This is dreadful!) Sir-r-r !"
rary security. They accepted his invitations to  "I thought frequently of trying my han there.
the theatre, and his cards to the painting acade- However, on some future evening, I will show
mies ; and by a master-stroke of vengeance, Mr. you my powers, if you say so ?"
Hetherington used frequently to dine with him.  "Do you make this distinct proposition to
On these and other occasions, lie delicately man- me ?" asked Mr. Hetherington, grating his teeth.
aged to materially increase Moses's knowledge of  "I do."
his personal relations, with information of the  "Then, by Christopher, you shan't. That's
powerful influence and dignity of his aunt and all I've got to say," exclaimed the unfortunate
other relatives, of his own intimacy with the count.
authorities, and of his ungovernable ferocity  "I beg pardon.  I thought it might amuse
in cases of the arousal of his passions. In his Mrs. letherington," replied Moses delicately, at
promenades with our hero, he now preferred se- this unexpectedly strong refusal.
eluded walks by the river-side, or sequestered  "Ha ! ha ! You probably think she would his
rambles by the lake in the Park, invited thereto, ten to it! I am going to see her and my aunt as
no doubt, by the horrible but equitable desire of soon as I can go," continued the count, increasing
pushing him into the water; and faltering in these in ire. "I'll see about itI I'll see about it,
dreadful intentions, lie was nevertheless fain to sir !"
relieve his feelings, by shaking his fist over the  "Oh! never mind. I didn't know you were
unconscious Moses's head, or uttering half-sup- so much attached to the little object, but it is
pressed references to the rascality and idiocy natural that these little ministers to our happi-
combined, of some party or acquaintance of'his, ness, beguiling our weary hours, should be ten-
whose name he appeared then indisposed to dis- derly cherished.  By the way, why don't you
close.                                      practice keeping yours in a case?" suggested
The frequent discovery in the morning, of fire- Moses affably.
shovels and tongs mysteriously placed against his  "In a case ?" repeated the bewildered count.
door, during the preceding evening to act as a  "Yes, but a bag will do as well. Such a fine
kind of impromptu alarm upon its opening, was a one as yours ought certainly to be kept from any
subject of some curiosity to the latter. Upon exposure !"
one occasion hearing a scraping noise in the hall  " D- nation! You are crazy! Go to the
outside his room, as lie was retiring, lie discovered d-l!" roared the count, utterly reckless of his
the Irish girl had succeeded in moving a bureau language. "Go to the d-l!"
from the hall-bedroom and placed it directly in  The astonished Moses looked at his companion
front of his door. Upon asking her by whose and after a moment's meditation came to the sat.
orders, she replied, "Mister and Missuses!" Where- isfactory conclusion that he was druik. "Strange,"
upon Moses, thinking it was probably connected thought he, "he shouldn't have shown it before!
with'some early cleaning operations, of the coin- The exercise has caused the fumes to get into his
ing morning, generously dismissed his proposed brains!"
expostulation with regard to the emergency of fire,  The-count walked sulkily along and said not a
and retired for the night in this blockaded con- word more, and Moses, humanely seemig him to
edition.                                     the corner of Bank street, also in silence, left
Mrs. Hetherington was presently taken by her him, and proceeded to the Evercroft House to
lord to visit her aunt in Connecticut, and the in- sup with his friends.
fatuated husband himself immediately returned
to Bank street to watch, le took a walk with
the unsuspecting 'villain.  It was a soft May
night, and as they proceeded around the Parade-          CHAPTER XXIX.
ground they heard a sentimental divinity student MOSES AND M.]BARNARD PAY AN AFTERNOON YI5IT
irthe University, wooing Melpomene with his MOE    A MR. ANPYN AFTERNBAR
flute. The plaintive melody immediately made TO THE WAGBU MANSDOEN, IN HSBMR. BAR-
Mr. Hetherington homesick, and he was fain to
express a desire to see his wife. Moses also con-  THE next day, while crossing Madison Square,
fessed himself touched by the soft music.   Moses was descried from the portico of the Fifth
"I, too, experience the same feelings V" said Avenue Hotel, and presently joined by the lively
he.                                         Mr. Barnard, who thereupon commenced to en-
"Confound the impudent fellow!" thought the tertain him with a very odd account of an Irish
newly-exasperated count.  "To my very face, he wake, which he had attended the night before,
says ie wants to see her too !"             and during which the probability of there being
" I feel like wooing the dear goddess myself," two or three more in the course of the week,
continued Moses poetically,                 within the sanie circle of Irish society, was
" What I" said the astonished count,      rendered quite certain by one of the most
"I have had some practice in Massachusetts. tremendous fights he had ever witnessed.

MR. WINKFIELD.-63

" Suppose-we drop in a moment at Mr. Wag
bull's," suggested Moses, as they neared that
gentleman's residence.  "Miss Wagbull, with
out doubt, is at home."
"I haven't been there but once since New.
Year's," replied Mr, Barnard. "She undertakes
to lecture me, every time I go there, and I must
say I-am behind in the course. Suppose we go
in and take another."
They entered and learned that Miss Wagbull
would presently descend, the grandmother, in
the mean time, promptly furnishing them with
her society, and suggesting that they might con-
sequently deem that of her grand-daughter super.
fluous. Moses deferentially intimated to the old
lady, that perhaps her own time was too valuable
to be expended for their pleasure.
"He means if'lie had fifty years more of expe-
rience and knowledge, he might be able to enter-
tain you in return, madam," said Mr. Barnard
respectfully.
"Who are you, young man?" asked the old
lady, turning to him. "What do you want
here -"
"Oh ! nothing, ma'am !" replied Mr. Barnard
somewhat abashed.I
"Your society is not objectionable," continued
the old lady, "as long as you respect the laws of
decorum. If you behave yourself, you are wel-
come to this house, sir !"
" Thank you, madam, for your hospitality,"
said Mr. Barnard, courteously coughing to hide
his disposition to feel lively at the old lady's ex-
pense.
"What is the matter? Got a cold ?" asked
the old lady immediately.  "Take catnip and
pennyroyal in equal parts. It's in the head, I see,
young man. That's where most young people of
the present day are weak."
" Ha! ha! Very good. Very good, madam !"
cried Mr. Barnard, approving of the old lady's
remark as an eminent piece of wit.
. What do you mean by this senseless gig-
gling ?" asked the old lady, vigorously resenting
this disrespectful familiarity.
"Oh! nothing, madam; excuse me," replied
Mr. Barnard, again feeling much abashed.
If it gets on the chest, young man," continued
the old lady, reverting to the cough, "take
some elder-flowers, one ounce of oak of Jeru-
salem and the north side of a maple-tree, and boil
'em till they simmer."
" But, my dear madam, I assure you I am not
at all troubled !" cried Mr. Barnard, at once en-
deavoring to relieve the old lady.. I
"Drink the tea, and put the remainder as a
poultice on your chest," continued the old lady
instructively.
"But how do you get at the north side of the
maple-tree, so as to be able to boil it with the
other ingredients ?" asked Barnard, becoming
curiou..
Where are your wits?  Can't you scrape the
moss from a tree ?" continued the old lady pet-
tishly.
Oh !" said Barnard, much relieved.
"It grows on the north side to protect the
tree from the cold winds," continued the old lady,
with the quiet grandeur of one imparting im-
portant information. .
The entrance of Miss Wagbull gave Mr. Bar-
nard an opportunity of reflecting upon this valu-

I

able knowledge, as the old lady devoted her
t whole attention, for a few moments thereafter,
- to casting severe frowns at Moses, and endea-
voring by violent interruptions to impede the
progress of his conversation with her grand-
daughter. Finally she was diverted by quite a
series of coughs upon the part of Mr. Barnard,
undoubtedly feigned from  friendly motives to
Moses by that ingenious individual.
" "Young man! that is not a cold you have. It
is not a cold at all ! It is not natural enough for
a regular cough," said she quickly. "You need
a vermifuge, young man! You undoubtedly
need a vermifuge."
" But I'm grown !" suggested the astonished
Mr. Barnard, rubbing his nose incredulously.
"I can't help that. Grown people have 'em,
and I know it. There you are rubbing your
nose! It is one of the very signs of 'em I" con-
tinued she triumphantly.
" Your knowledge is much superior to mine in
this matter, madam," replied Mr. Barnard sub-
missively. ("By Jove, she may be right ! It
may account for my seeing snakes now and
then !")
Here the aged being, to sustain her position
of adults being visited l y infantile diseases, went
into a long account of one, who had been care-
fully kept in his infancy and childhood by his
parents from any liability to contract the dis-
eases contingent thereto, and in consequence, o
the day after he was twenty-one, was attacked
with measles, scarlet-fever, thrush and whooping-
cough, all at once. To this, Mr. Barnard con-
tinued to pay great attention, and as the old lady
insisted upon giving him the entire treatment
of the difficult case, was much impressed with
her knowledge of such matters.   Moses thus
secured an opportunity of enjoying Bessie's
society without fear of interruption.
The young lady had delayed In appearing
somewhat longer than usual, owing to the fact,
perhaps, that she was becoming more unsatisfied
with her toilet than formerly, and was disposed
to have every minute particular passed upon in
the critical judgment of her maid, before descend-
ing.
" I have been studying so hard," said she
to Moses, with a smile.  "All the morning!,
You would not think it of me, would you ?"
"Why not? What have you been studying,
Miss Bessie ?" asked Moses.
"I have commenced Kant's Critique and-"
"Kant ! Metaphysics ! Why, what has in-
duced you to try that ?" asked Moses curiously.
"I don't know. Women know so little nowa-
days, and they have but little right to lie respect
of men who are so superiorly educated," replied
Bessie, looking down.
"But metaphysics, Bessie! Do you think
women should know metaphysics also, to render
them worthy of men's homage and friendship !"
"I well know that the cultivation of our
minds," continued Bessie, "is to fit us for the
noble duties of that life, which our constitution
marks as the sacred designation of Providence.
Our knowledge is to be chiefly reproduced in the
daily habits of a domestic life; but if we are in-
tended to he the companions of men, how can we
hope to be, to those with whom we are-unable to
talk, to those who feel themselves constantly
obliged to forego the utterance of their own cle-

I


64                                 wit.M . W1
actedd ideas and lower themselves to the common-
place level of what, alas, is too well known to be
our sex's daily thoughts "
" 1Yet even so," replied Moses, "1the society of
woman is.beneficial to man. It is a relaxation,
a spiritual restoration from the intense thought,
or exhausting labor, which falls to his lot in the
discharge of his duties."
" But is this hardly fair for her ?" asked Bessie.
"She does not stand in need of the relaxation
which severe application or overwhelming busi-
ness makes requisite for him. Her employments
do not exhaust her spirits. Should the strong,
truths, which she longs to hear drop from his lips,
be diluted with flattery, should her desire for in-
formation be put off with a compliment instead
of a fact or reason ?"71
"oNo; and when she indicates a relish for in-
structive conversation, that of men, even the less
distinguished for sense and learning, will not be
apt to be confined to what is vain and unprofit-
able," replied Moses.
abl must confess, that we too often think to
flatter the understanding of men by avoiding the
exercise of our own, but it is only to recommend
ourselves in the eyes of those, whom it is our duty
to please !" replied B~essie earnestly.
tBessie ,it is not the relaxation of frivolous
trifling, nor the discussion of intellectual abstrac-
tions, that man seeks in her society; it is an ele
eating power, a spirituality, with which it is her
province to endow him by her smiles and love
and for which he may seek in vain amid the ab-
stractions of philosophy, the truths of science, or
the practical deductions of reason," replied Moses
With chivalrous gentleness. " In her conversa
tion, he would see her fancy flourish, her sensibil
cities expand, her wit guided by delicacy and
taste, on subject interesting to the heart and tc
.the imgination."
"B 1ut if the study of abstractions gives exact
ness to the ideas, produces definite notions of
realities, chastens the imagination,leads to think
to analyze, to combine and to methodize; if
confers a power to discriminate the glitterin,
from the solid, the false from the true, are no
such virtues required in domestic life, and is no
such a study fitted to strengthen woman's wind
' to put her in the best state for directing her pu
suits in those particular channels, which her dec
tination requires ?"
"tAr! yes," replied Moses, now in deep appri
bation - " and with such an end, she runs no ria
of being seemed a precieuse -idicule,.a blue-stoel
ing affected with pedantry. The most profoun
metaphysical disquisitions or tempestuous the
logical polemics are thus without danger to h
womanliness, and it is thus men of sense w:
cease to be hostile to her improvement."
"I thought also of attending more assiduous
to the lectures of the day than I have," continue
Bessie.
"1And you are quite right," interrupted Mose
"for I well know that you will not resort to their
with the fashionable hope of appearing well-i
formed, by cheaply substituting the exciteme
of public amusement for the fatigue of applicati
-that you will not seek the diverting graces
rhetoric instead of the deductions of reasomn,t
esthetic gratification instead of substantial i
provement !"
"Do tell me what a woman should best hi

INKFIE2JTLDT.

continued Bessie with an air of innocent perplex-
ity. "It is so hard to steer between being a vain
pedant by reading too much and a vain fool by
reading nothing."
"Let the poet answer for me," replied Moses,
gently tempering his critical spirit with the elo-
quent r6sum6 of Mr. Wordsworth.
As he finished the lines, a modest languor ap-
peared in her manner, a timid sensibility seemed
to express itself in her look. The silent tender-
ness of this enchanting expressiveness seemed
but to adorn the correctness of the sentiments,
which she had disclosed were innate within her.
Moses looked upon her fine brow across which
her hair waved in heavy billows to float around
her neok, and felt that the soft ringlets, which
art could not hold captive, the fineness, the velvet-
like coloring of flowers, which her complexion
possessed, the regularity of her features, which
discovered new attractions in every expression,
were a fitting adornment of the temple which
contained so noble a soul. The philosophic se-
renity of his mind seemed scarcely to afford relief
or resource in the momentary intoxication of his
heart. It has been said by gifted writers that it
is in truth an awful moment, when a human being
first discovers, that his passions and affections
are stronger than his talents and intellectual
powers-when he first begins to suspect their
vast importance in the sum of his existence-
when he first feels that his happiness is no longer
in his own keeping, but is surrendered into the
- dominion of another.
r    But awful as this moment was to our hero, it
s is our duty to record that the one succeeding it
- was still more awful to him, hero as he was.
- , "I love Wordsworth," murmured Bessie, after
d a pause, looking up. "Do you know, Alfred and
o I studied the whole Excursion together ?"
"Alfred and you! I beg pardon," exclaimed
- our hero, "but may I ask who Alfred'is ?"'
f Oh! Mr. Hoyt, our neighbor, whom you met
, at the opera and at dinner the other evening t"
it replied Bessie cheerfully.
g    "Hoyt! Oh ! yes, I remember iim," said our
t hero, endeavoring to feign composure.
it   "He has such a clear conception of poetry and
d, he reads so beautifully !" continued Bessie in in-
r- nocent enthusaism.
S-   Moses felt inclined to, wish that the amiable
Alfred had never been born; to hate the very
o. letters of which that person's name was com-
Ik posed!   He presently betook himself to the
k- street, accompanied by Mr. Barnard, who had
Ld quite penetrated the old lady's graces, by faith-
o-* fully listening tb her thrilling recital of the
er troubles and narrow escapes of the infant of
ill twenty-one. We may say that the five different
crises which the latter had passed through, of as
ly many diseases, within as many hours and under
ed as many doctors, were as nothing to the uneasy
commotion which our hero had just experienced
s; in as many minutes,
in-
nt
on                CHAPTER    XXX.
he GRAND CLIMAX OF MRH. WINKFmELD's nELATmONs
he wiTH THE HETnERItNGTONS'.
In returning from dinner at the Evereroft to
e," his lodgings, on an evening shortly subsequent to

MR. WINKFIELD.                                    05
his walk with Mr. Hetherington, Moses was ac- "Don't step a foot inside, Mollie, and you, be
companied by Mr. Titman. In the more relaxed ready Bridget. You see he has bullies here !'"
moment of the repast, the latter gentleman had said the excited bount, flying frantically into the
confided with an appearance of triviality rather ball and back again.
than of gravity, a minute account of his ruptur-  "Don't be foolish, sir," said Moses sternly; " I
ing, in the most shabby manner according to his am not disposed to permit you to act in this fool-
own confession, an extremely interesting tie with ish way in the presence of my friend. Come in,
a deaf young lady in Dibbletown and forming an- I pray you."
other with the two tall young ladies thereof,  The count moved a little further into the room
merely from a change of fancy on his part from  and produced a dumb-bell. At the same time, as
the blonde to the brunette order of beauty. if by concert, Bridget brandished another before
Moses would not have been very deeply impressed the eyes of the astonished Titman.
with the matter, had not Mr. Titman still shown " What is the matter ?" cried the latter edging
a want of remorse, even when he insinuated that off toward a window at this demonstratioR of the
the young lady had pined away and lately died, brawny Bridget. "Have they all been taken in-
wholly from the above cause. Moses felt it to sane? What is it? What do they want ?"
be his immediate duty to earnestly lecture his  " Ye kape quiet and aisy, ye little bully I"
friend upon the enormity, the heartless enormity said Bridget menacingly to Mr. Titman. " D'ye
of thus trifling with that tenderest of objects, a mind this ? Ye'll see prisintly, it will be after
confiding woman's heart. Trifling with it, wheth. making ye, if ye don't !" With that Bridget took
er to wn it rom its rightful possessor, or to win her fifth exercise with the dumb-bell within an
it, but to idly throw it away, was, he might say, inch of Mr. Titman's left ear.
a dishonor to manhood- and a crime!    -      "But my good woman," said the latter, "I
"I didn't mean to leave her. I procured a merely wish to know, in behalf of my friend here,
speaking trumpet and passed many happy hours what this-"
conversing with her in her parlor; but you sae,  Kape quiet P" interrupted Bridget ferociously.
somehow my fancy changed," said Mr. Titman    "But, my good woman, I-")
with an apologetic appearance of nascent remorse,  Ye stay there in that corner, and if ye opens
aroused by these strong expressions of his friend, your gab agin, I'll knock yez head off and niake
"At any rate, I never took dead aim at her with yez ate your wurruds; I wull, by the howly St.
a direct proposal."                         Pathrick, and may he not assile yez carkiss af
"Titman, in matters connected with the other therwards, ye dirty little Yankee-man !"
sex, We,'the stronger beings, can not be too care-  Having in this masterly manner used up and
ful and delicate. A woman's nature is essentially cornered at the very commencement the reserve
sensitive, and when she is loved,she is the more so. of the enemy, Bridget turned to assist her supe-
Her spirit is, as it were, an Eolian harp, giving rior officer in making the principal charge.
forth responsive melody to the slightest touch, " Vile seducer, and miserable voluptuary," re-
and we can not be too careful in playing upon it !" commenced the latter, somewhat impeded in the
They had now reached Mr. Winkfield's lodging, oratorical amplification of his words by his agita-
and they walked leisurely up to his rooms. Tit. tion and the dumb-bell, "the time has now come,
man threw himself back in a chair, while Moses when with feelings outraged by a long and patient
proceeded to hunt for his slippers. A knock was suffering of-you-my wife and I have come to
heard at the door. It was opened, and Bridget, the conclusion, that you can let your trunks re-
the maid, appeared, beckoning to some one in the main until morning, and send for them; but you,
rear, and signifying by mute gestures that what sir, vile voluptuary and miserable seducer as
was wanted would be found within.          your own weak meshes have proven you 'you
The Count Hetherington here appeared in a must proceed hegce to-night. It is useless for
rather unsteady manner and standing near the you to resist. This arm is strong, and Bridget
osouted out ma tremendous pilot-like can manage you both."
yoiee:." Isnow the time ?" asked the daughter of
"Vile seducer and miserable voluptuary, the Erin, with an impatient start.
time has now come, when with feelings outraged "Wait, Bridget. He must be punished, erc he
by a long and patient suffering of the-feelings goes, with some scorn; with the contempt which
which were outraged-by the suffering-in the-  the impotent failure of his nefarious schemes,
Vile seducer and miserable voluptuary! the time dark plotting and vile propositions, so richly call
has now come, when with feelings outraged by--" forth from the heart of triumphant honor and
Here as he seemed to have lost himself and manhood. Vile seducer and miserable voluptu-
what ideas he intended to enunciate in the whirl. ary, the time has now come, when-"
pool of his feelings, Bridget came to his rescue  "Let it go, Rainsford," here whispered the
and said:                                  trembling little countess, vainly endeavoring to
"Mr. Winkfield, ye are a nice man, but ye de- prompt her lord in his effort. " I can't remember
savin  bligyard, ye must be afther getting out of it at all. And tell him at once his intentions are
this! 0" )discovered, and that we are sorry for him, and
And a small voice from the outside was heard hope lie will do better and something else of that
whispering to Mr. Hetherington at the door. "0  kind!"
Rainsford! tell him quickly! Tell him quickly, "Your intentions, vile Winkfield, arc discov,
au have this terrible suspense ended "1   ered," repeated the count. "We are sorry for
"y dear Mr. Hetherington, and you, my dear you, and hope you will try to do better and some-
adtam, I pray you come in. Calm your seeming thing else of that kind !
agitation, and tell me what this--this pleasantry , " Titman, an unintelligible difference has
m eans," said our hero, astounded at the purport grown up between this gentleman and myself'
of the words he had heard. ,.In spite of it, I need hardly ask you to take no-


66                      MR. WINKFIELD.

I

tice that I shall consider a repetition of the ep-" cination with your husband," said Moses, turning
thets he is making use of as extremely insult- in  an  irritated way to  Mrs. Hetherington.
ing," said Moses energetically. "And now what " What act can you point at, which has not been
intentions of mine do you refer to, sir ?" continued conceived by me with the greatest respect both
he, turning to the count.                   for you and for your husband, madam -"
"Base lodger, didn't you come into this house  "I forgive you, sir, indeed I do," replied Mrs.
for the purpose of-of wickedly winning the af- Hetherington, timidly; "but you admired-my-
fections of Mrs. Hetherington ?  Answer me.that." features and-
Moses was so astounded at this, that he gasped  "Gracious Heaven. Perhaps I was indiscreet.
for words to reply.                         It was the natural tribute to your beauty,
"Ah! your guilty conscience betrays you. madam ?" said Moses gallantly.
You confess it here, before you leave in abashed  "And you said you envied Mr. Hetherington
dejection."                                 his lot ."
"I don't. I don't !" expostulated the perspir-  "So I did, and I say so now," responded Moses
ing Moses. "I don't confess any such prepos- frankly.
terous nightmare's trumped-up fabrication. Why,  1"Look here! Would -you recommence this
who has been deceiving you ?  Who has been thing before my very presence ?" exclaimed the
idly, maliciously, trifling with my reputation and lord, in irritation at the noticeable effect upon his'
character?  Give me the villain's name P"   wife of these remarks of Moses. "But enough.
"It was me!" replied the injured lord in a We called to give you notice to leave, as your
fainter tone. "Stand by, Bridget. It was me month is up to-morrow at eleven, and we thought
and my wife. We watched you and discovered, perhaps you would oblige us by doing. so to-
early after you came here, your nefarious de- night."#
signs. The very last time I took a walk with  "You are fixed, madam, in your opinion that
you the open insult came, but the- time has now  I have meritedly forfeited your respect and friend-
come for you, voluptuary, and your designs to ship?"
be thwarted. Yes," continued he, gradually as- "Ye-yes, sir," replied the lady, looking at
sured, and with a sudden inspiration of memory; her lord. "Yes, sir, I am. Mr. Hetherington
"as the rock whose firm-set base not all the feels so, and so do I."
tumult of the western surge can- shake, volup-  "Well, then, I will leave the house, sir. I will,
tuary, though the fierce winds uplift it to the madam, and at this very hour," replied Moses.
stars, I will brave the shock of ruffian force and "You are both fixed in this preposterous, insane,
stick to my assertions."                    and thoughtlessly unjust hallucination, and I can
"1You don't know it, sir.' You don't know it. do nothing but leave. But, mind you, in doing
You are foolish and infatuated. Either your so, I distinctly wish it to be understood, that I in
reason never has been perfect, or else your no way plead guilty to this insane impeachment
imagination has been lately getting the better of of my honor and sense of decency, not one jot
it!"                                         or tittle. I leave, simply because it would be in
".It hasn't! I deny it I warmly deny it!" re- very bad taste to stay here, and with the best of
plied Mr. Hetherington. "Oppressive tyrant, feelings to you, madam, and your worthy husband.
whom nor the sacred bond of justice, nor of Titman, I can't make head or tail of this, but we
hospitality controls, vengeance at length is will quietly walk out of the house and proceed to
aroused. Injured honor claims aloud the crim- the Evercroft. I can send a man for my ward-
inal."                                      robe, Mr. Hetherington."
" Criminal! 'Do you know what it is, sir, to  "Very well, And we shall keep the matter
make this; this terrible charge against an honora- quiet, sir, and we hope you will not attempt again
ble man, and that too in the presence of one of such a wicked purpose," replied Mr. Hethering-
his best friends ?" asked Moses in solemn earnest- ton. "Don't cry, wife; never mind the rooms.
ness.                               .        We'll give up the house next month and go up
"Nefarious man! you can not by any subter- to aunt's."
fuge .hoodwink us, and you need not think' by Moses walked out of the room, between Mr.
threatening usto'be able to suck in, as it were, Hetherington and his much affected wife, followed
that friend."                               by Mr. Titman. He magnanimously proffered his
"Wait ! You distinctly make this charge hand to them and then descended the staircase.
against me," asked. Moses; "this grave charge He was about to turn at the bottom and grandly
of deliberately seeking this roof for the purpose wave a pleasant adieu to them, when Mr. Titman
of disturbing the honor and peace of your fell violently upon him  and precipitated him
family ?"                                   against the front-door. The Irish girl, unable to
"1I do, both me and my wife, Mrs. Hethering- resist the exercise of the power which she knew
ton."                                       she possessed over the physique and spirits of Mr.
"1And you further state that it is not at the Titman, had given him a scornful push and sent
instigation of any malicious person outside, but the little mani flying down-stairs. Moses and he
you do it of your own accord, in consequence of heard the expostulationo 9f the bot at this, as
your own sensible evidence of the existence of they finally shut the front-door after them and
such an atrocious purpose on my part ?"     they wended their way down the street.
"1We do. Both me and my wife, Mrs. Hether-  "This is a most singular charge, Titman," said
ington."                                    Moses, breaking the silence.  Don't you think
It is a terrible charge certainly !" said so?"
Moses, pausing in meditative earnestness.     " I do," replied Mr. Titman briefly-.  ,
" You wince beneath the lash. It is justice, -" Did you ever hear of such a case, Titman ."
sir," continued Mr. Hetherington.             " Oh!I yes. I have heard of similar eases quite
" And you, madam, do you share in this -hallu- frequently," replied Mr. Titman candidl7-.

puvru'l weirauty. L-e mother of MISS De
Pormpenkops was in her own comfortable boudoir,
reading, for the one thousand seven hundredth
time, extracts from that admirable and only reliable
history of New-York, Knickerbocker's; the said
extracts mainly appertaining to the necessary
mention of the Pompenkop ancestry, in treating
of the early horticulture of the country.  The
young lady herself received her embryotic ad-
mirer in the library of the mansion, who plucked
agitatedly at the bouquet in his button-hole, while
his heart beat so loudly that he could plainly hear
its tattoo.
1" The temperature is exceedingly disagreeable
without, is it not, Mr. Toplady ?" asked the affable
young lady, attributing his continued trembling
to the inclemency of the evening.
" Quite low and disagreeable," replied Mr.
Toplady, as if remonstrating against the ungen-
tlemanly conduct of the clerk of the weather al-
luded to.
"Your visit is a very generous one indeed, Mr.
Toplady," continued the young lady graciously,
" on such a night as this. You relieve my feel-
ings of their monotony and gloom."
"Ah !" replied Mr. Toplady, "can such a
charming, vivacious spirit as yours be ever
weighed down by gloom or monotony ?"
" You know me not. I am but a human be-
ing, alike with others, Mr. Toplady."
"No; not at all," replied Mr. Toplady ardent-

MR. WINKFIELD.-67
"I never dreamed of being accused by these ly. "At least not like others. Miss Wagbull
people in this way I"                      and all who know you say that I"
" Very likely !"                            "0 dear Miss Wagbull I" exclaimed Miss
"It is a terrible thing!  It is horrible, Tit- De Pompenkops ; "she is my most intimate
man !"                                     friend, sir !"
" Yes," said Titman  abstractedly, "trifling  "Yes, and thus knows you best !"
with that tenderest of objects, a confiding wom-  1"And her grandmother is such an excellent
an's heart, whether to win it but to idly throw it upholder of society "
away, or to win it where already bestowed."   " And her father, an honorable, high-toned
" Good Goq, what a coincidence! 'But appear- gentleman!" said Mr. Toplady enthusiastically.
ances are against me, Titman, I confess.  Yet  "Yes."
when I assert my innocence to you, may I not  "And Timothy, the Irish boy, is a faithful do-
ask you to say nothing about the affair-at least mestic lad, do you not think so " continued he,
for the present, eh?"                      pursuing the catalogue for the purpose of recov-
Titman promised, and Moses quietly effected ering his ideas.
the change of domicile back again to the Ever.  "Sir! Yes, sir.  This whole household is
croft, ere he retired to 'a somewhat disturbed very excellent indeed," replied the young lady,
slumber.                                   somewhat constrainedly.
"4Their equipage is very elegant. A very fine
pair of horses, Miss De Pompenkopsl" said Mr.
Toplady exhaustively, and vainly struggling in
CHAPTER XXXI.                  his own mind to change the subject.
MR. TOPLADY AND MISq DE POMPENKOPS.       "They are of fine English stock," said the
young lady, politely concluding to ignore Mr.
WHATEVER may have been the effect upon Mr. Toplady's last encomium, and referring again to
Toplady of Mr Barnard's doubtful illustrations the Wagbull family,; " their first American an-
of the matrimonial relation, it was evidently but cestor died in New-York in 1760."
temporary, for lie had no sooner awakened the  " In 1760! Has their pedigree been traced as
next morning than he felt again a strong desire far back as that ?" asked Mr. Toplady.
to go at once to Miss De Pompenkop's mansion,  "Yes; and it shows the health and vigor of
and make the initiatory application for the posi- their race. This ancestor, sir, died at the ad-
tion of object to that young lady's destitute affee- vanced age of ninety-five years, respected by all
tions. He wisely resolved, however, to read up the Dutch as well as the English residents," contin-
for a day or two longer on the necessary require- ued the young lady.
ments thereof, and,.upon the evening of the third  " Gracious ! At that age 1" replied Mr. Top-
day, presented himself at her door with a mon- lady in astonishment; "he must have been re-
ster nosegay in his buttonhole. Two supercilious spected."
colored domestics opened the door, who hesitated  "He served Trinity parish, and was beloved
from doubt whether he was an amateur cr profes- by all the parishioners. For thirty-five years h1e
sional florist; but upon his giving one of them  occupied a stall in that church, sir."
a smart blow with his cane, they ran away swiftly "In the church I" responded Mr. Topladv
to urfnrm th niA,,r dii 111ihe

confusedly.    .
"Yes, and the month previous to his decease
he preached a sermon before the parish, re-
markable for the sonorous tone in -wich it was
delivered."
:"Preached a sermon! By heavenI Ha ha !
very good. Very good, indeed, Miss De Pom-
penkops !" cried Mr. Toplady, much pleased
with the apparent unbending of the young lady.
"And his conversation too was discreet, I sup-
pose; not in yea and nay, but neigh principally."
The refined young lady started perceptibly at
these words. ' Do you not think it a judicious
practice to preserve the records of ancestry ?"
continued she rather forcedly.
" Certainly," replied Mr. Toplady, abashed
again ; " certainly.  Even the memory of the
faithful servants of a family should be preserved."
, "With common people, of course, it is not
perhaps essential," continued the young lady.
."No; their mission is to set off by contrast.
the excellence of blood," said Mr. Toplady gal-
lantly ; "for this reason, Providence has wisely
deprived them of the knowledge, and the most
of them of the belief, they ever had any ances-
tors I"
"But do you deem this contrast necessary,
sir ?" replied the young lady, who still felt called'
upon, as a member of the aristocracy, to defend
hereditary refinement from the vulgarity of be-
ing relative even.


68                               MR     INKFIELD.
"Perhaps not. I may say not ; for though The domestics were directed to light the gal-
there were no vulgarity in the world, refinement lery, and presently Mr. Toplady escorted the
would still be a term of which no one moving in young patrician to the same, with increasing in-
the circle which you adorn, Miss de Pompenkops, terest, and followed by the easy Mr. Beckman.
would mistake the meaning," replied the bril-  The dust had been allowed to accumulate in
liant courtier, bowing low.                 the room in fit accord with the antiquity which
" You are very kind," said the young lady, ma. it contained. The dim light of the chandelier
jestically acknowledging the compliment.  She fell upon a long row of portraits upon the wall,
smiled upon Mr. Toplady.                    the counterfeit presentments of the young lady's
She seemed to stand upon a metaphorical emi- ancestry ; and a feeling of subdued awe pervad-
nence, and look down upon the world, which, ed Mr. Toplady's bosom, at the sight of these in-
though necessarily brought in contact with, she teresting relies of a noble race. He seemed to
inwardly despised. The union of natural grace be carried back in the past to the times in whicl1
and grandeur, with the habits and sentiments of those haughty men and fair ladies once lived and
aristocratic seclusion, of sweet female weakness- breathed..
es, with the austerity of pride, was manifested in  " This is the founder of our house," said Miss
her character with the most beautiful and won- Pompenkops, in a low voice, as they stood before
derful consistency.  The heiress of a proud the first portrait in the line, that of a dignified
name and much wealth, a train of obedient plea- personage, with long flowing beard whitened with
sures had ever waited round; and from her in- years, and with a tremendous forehead, bending
fancy she had breathed an atmosphere redolent over a ponderous.tome, apparently in rapt, mysti-
with the horticultural perfume of her lofty deri- fled study of its occult principles. Above him
ovation.  If, then,, her grace was commanding, on the canvas were represented the celestial
her elegance high-hred and airy ; if, she even spaces-the empyrean, starry host, asteroids and
threw into the manner in which she sneezed, constellations; and at one side was an alembic
coughed, or waved the perfume from  er hand- in a high state of successful effervescence.
kerchief, a spirit of magnificent haughtiness, he "He came from Arabia in the tenth century,
remembered it was the pardonable result of hav- without any name, and was called ' the mysterious
ing a Dutch market-gardener for an ancestor two horologer.' He brought with him clocks, and a
centuries before, who, being contented with his singular powder. Placing the latter under the
lot, did not sell it, but left it to be gilded with burghers' assembly-house, of a town which had
time for his posterity. It sufficed him to see in fallen under the reigning count's displeasure, he
that sweet smile, that she was a woman, that blew them up while they were concocting a peti-
there was a strong under-current of human pas- tion of grievances, was baptized and knighted,
sions and enthusiasm  flowing beneath that received the Christian name of 'Slagting-duivel
haughty reserve. He therefore continued his ef- Van Pompoenkops,' or 'the unearthly slaughterer
fort, by replying to her sweet look with a tender of the Pompoenkops,' obtained the hand of the
grimace, which, although it alarmed her slightly count's daughter in marriage, though at the ma-
at first, was on the whole quite successful in re- ture age of one hundred and fifty years ; and
moving her reserve, for she began to look upon henceforth gunpowder was introduced in Dutcli
him as one of those eccentric gentlemen, who wars, and shortly throughout Europe."
are accustomed to display their affability in little  The young lady thus proceeded.  The next
freaks of humor,                            portrait was that of the mysterious horologer's
"fThe archives of our family we have carefully son, the reigning count and Hovenipr, surnamed
preserved, Mr. Toplady," continued she, rather Bezopen Zottebol, from his fondness for wine. The
hastily. " We have whole boxes of parchments next, that of his wife, Joanna, author of the great
and deeds. I would they were arranged, and we original temperance movement of the twelfth cen-
must certainly have a secretary. Perhaps you tury; and the next that of the renowned warrior
would like to examine the portrait-gallery, Mr. of the fourteenth century, Sehijtebroek Scheten-
Toplady9"                                  laat Pompenkops, famous for his Parthian me-
"Certainly !" said Mr. Toplady in rapture.  thod of warfare.  Then followed twelve more
Here they were interrupted by the entrance of ancestors, variously renowned, who seemed to
a magnificent pair of whiskers, attached to a have a remarkable personal likeness to each
gentlemanalso magnificently gotten up - who other-the males invariably looking to the left,
bowed themselves into the room, with the easi- over an immense moustache and a very elabo-
nessthe impossibility of being annoyed, result- lately painted coat of armor; and the females,
ing from a long experience in society, and imme- with a hawk on the fore-finger, all looking to the
diately commenced to put in play some of the right at their respective lords, over a huge ruff.
simple ways of creating little social sensations,  " And this is our great American ancestor, the
with which they inspired their porter, about the utopian Count Rip Stadtholder Van Po'mpenkops,
starting period of their growth, and which con- who, disappointed in early affection, left his nia-
sistedin his gentle tugs at them, his senten- tive land to found a state in the Western World,
tiousness, and his intelligent smile,  The man- and pursue his predilection for horticulture."
ncr of this Mr. Beekman-bobuts - for by that  " Why, he is in armor too !" exclaimed Mr.
name the cherisher of these whiskers was intro- Toplady, as the portrait of the exile represented
duced to Mr.  plady   as extremely deferential him in a full suit of armor, bending scrutatively
tMis Dc Pomeikos but lie seemed to be over some cabbage-heads.
aweofiasfampena foops; the, which Mr. Top-   " Yes - the painter wished to represent the
aayeed  a  a     mg t ere, w     .     his.torical' fact that,, while pursuing his horticultu-
"tadenie," exhodught tlhe latter, "you can't go ral relaxations amid the hostile aborigines of
anywhere, nto thrsneo     yn  lady but Manhadden, it was often necessary for him to he
ayume a flow    reene"        ougthus protected."

I

MR. WINKFIEL-69
Mr. Toplady had retrograded to a distant end "Now, faithful squire, you must hang these
of the gallery, to take a species of retrospective upon the valiant knight's shoulders. They are
genealogical glance down the long line of por- called poldrons," continued the fair dame.
tiaits; and in twisting his head into a proper ar-  Mr. Beekman tugged at two immense plates of
tistic position therefore, brought it in smart con- iron,and successively fastened them upon Mr. Top.
tact with an object which emitted a metallic, lady's back. The latter sunk to a more compact-
ringing sound.                             sitting posture on the stand beneath their weight,
.Ah! that is the casque or helmet which the and began to perspire profusely.
illustrious exile brought with him to this coun-  "By heavens,'they must have had immense
try," said Miss Pompenkops, as Mr. Toplady strength ! Immense !" repeated he.
stared confusedlyet it, doubting from the severity  "Now place the breast-plate in its position,"
of the blow, whether the prolonged sound he directed Miss Pompenkops.
heard came from theinteresting relic or from the  "The breast-plate ! why, this coat of mail ap-
interior of his head. "See, we have the com- pears a sufficient protection, certainly!I But pro-
plete suit of' armor."                     ceed," said the chivalrous Toplady, making an-
And hereupon Mr. Toplady learned the singu- other effort.
lar and-providential manner in which the armor  " And now you will have the kindness to stand
had been rescued from  obscurity.  After two up, and he will place the tuilettes upon you.
centuries of an unknown history, it was discov- They are the overlapping pieces, hanging from
cared by the young lady's father in a junk-shop in the waist over the hips, and fasteied by clasps."
Water street, with two bunches of extremely de-  Mr. Toplady slid into the greaves and boots,
cayed radishes in one of the cuisse's pockets, and and assumed an erect posture.
in the other an autograph letter of Governor  "Never mind the tuilettes! I really do not
qarsKoppig to the Count Rip Stadtholder, re- think I can stand them. I know I can't. I am
questing the latter to return him a demiohn he sure of it," said he eniphatically.
the boed.    Proofs indubitab    h   ier     Very well then. Now the trusty lance."
the Water street shopman was a correct histori-  Mr. Toplady grasped the lance gratefully.
cal scholar, or else had procured the assistance  '"And now the parache, or nodding plume."
of one in inventing the lively imposition. To  "No, never mind, never mind that ! Really, I
make the latter the more illusory, the main part don't think I can wait !" hastily replied Mr. Top-
of the helmet was found at the moment of pur- lady. He summoned up superhuman strength, and
chase, in use by the wife of the proprietor as a took a step forward. His manner in this movement
utensil for soap-making.                   was not very grand or majestic, but still it was
W h hat immense headsour ancestors must very interesting and affecting, for it seemed like
have hads" cried the curious Mr. Toplady, exper- that of a noble warrior, enfeebled by his wounds,
mentally adjusting the heavy helmet upon his about sinking upon the glorious field of battle.
own head. "Wait! wait! Dear me!" suddenly exclaimed -
""Ohc! do put on the restof the ;armor, Mr. he. "There appears to be something in one of
Toplady," cried the young lady vivaciously. "I the feet, something alive I" In his distraction,
would so like to see the presentment of a warrior the warrior agitatedly felt of his helmet, and in
of the olden time! Mr. Beekman will assist you, doing so caused the volant piece or vizor to drop
and I can direct ou.  See! the hauberk or shir with a smart snap, He thua became completely
-chemise of mail is suspended near by, with its encased and shut out from view. The sound of his
sleeves already attached. You must commence voice at once emanated in a very indistinct and
with that."                                hollow manner from within, yet his accents seem-
The ardent Toplady politely complied with her ed to be those of a person desirous of being im-
request.                                   mediately relieved from an unpleasant situation.
Gracious! I didn't think it was so heavy !" He again confusedly endeavored to raise one of
said he, as he adjusted the iron jacket with the his feet, for the purpose of taking another step,
aid of the affable Beekman. It appeared large and in the performance of this arduous feat lost
enough to contain Mr. Toplady and one of each the balance of his person, which he had been
generation of his ancestors as far back as to the struggling so manfully to retain. He staggered
timc it was originally constructed,        and fell to the floor with quite a heavy crash.
"oAnd here are the greaves and cuisses for the  "I am not hurt, but take off the helmet.!
lower limbs, with the getiouilleres, or knee-pieces Heavens, Beekman, lift the vizor! I am suffo-
already attached, and the sallerets overlapping cating! I can't stand it! And they are biting
the feet. By mounting this stand, against which me in the leg I" were the hasty accents which in-
they rest, you can insert your limbs in them at distinctly emanated from the metallic case, as
once."t                                    the utterer made an unsuccessful attempt to sit
Mr. Toplady mounted the standdat the immi- up. "There are two rats in.the left leg !"
lent risk of falling backward; and with the as-  The disagreeableness, if not the danger of his
sistance of Mr. Beekman succeeded in placing his situation was certainly apparent, and Mr. Beek.
lems in the stiff ca e ofemetal. There wasN great man endeavored at once to relieve the unfortu-
rother  also Thy wrfulaotlonger than nate gentleman. But in vain did the affable Do
teTpladian limbs; the calves were about three Bobuts essay to unfasten the vizor or pull off the
fetgraround and the hoots appeared at least of helmet, the rusty clasp of the former had fas-
asgta lnt.                               tened with such a vigor to the clamp in the hau-
"Tese upper things must remain unhasped," berk. He tugged first at his whiskers and then
Suggested Mr. Toplady prudently placing his hand at the helmet, and unintentionally aided the vie-
Upon the cuisses, or thigh-pieces. " Though he .tim's rapid progress toward extermination by
a ppears to have been much broader than he was adding choking to the latter's want of air and large
long, his stature wias evidently greater than mine." inhalations of dust.. A couple of negro domes-


70                    MR. WINKFIELD.R

ties came rapidly into the room, attracted there-
to by the noisy crash of his downfall. With
great presence of mind one of them immediately
returned to the kitchen for a hammer, while Mr.
Beekman and the others occpied their time in
restlessly carrying the hapless knight in his case
to various parts of the room, for the purpose of
supplying him with his great need, fresh air..But
the colored master of the situation soon arrived
from the kitchen with the happy instrument, and
by one or two smart blows the clasp was disen-
gaged, the helmet removed, the hauberk unfas-
tened, and Mr. Toplady successfully drawn out
by the head and shoulders from the rest of the,
case of mail. Though the vital spark still ani-
mated his organization, he was semi-insensible,
and many moments elapsed ere he was sufficient-
ly recovered to enjoy the sympathy of Miss Pom-
penkops, the congratulations of Mr. Beekman-
bobuts, and the decease of the rats.
He presently walked out of the house, and
homeward. What his feelings were on his way
home we do not know, but we imagine that as
his torture was now a thing of the past, and the
sympathy of the young lady still glowed in his
memory, he finally thought more of the latter
than he did of the former.
CHAPTER XXXTL
MIs STACY SEEKS THE cONFIDENCE OF MR. TITMAN
MR. HYPERINoN RUNSWIcK DIFFIcULTS.
TnE impression left upon our hero by the un
usual warmth of Miss Stacy's friendship, by th
mixture of playfulness and sensibility, and wha
the French call naivete, was like, so to speak
that of delicious strains of musio. lie discover
ed in his being a depth of delight, which pe
plexed him by its very inexpressibility. We wil
not give here particular passages, as they had
relative beauty which rendets it difficult to sei
arate them from each other  r their surroundin
circumstances without barringg their general e
feet. Suffice to say that what she said and di
in her lively intercourse with him possessed th
mingled charm of.pathos and humor. Thong
of course, it will be evident to every reader,'
was not at all from being overpowered' by theic
demonstrations that Moses had transferred hi
lodgings from the hotel to Bank street, it neve
- theless happened. that by this means she can
much less in contact with him, being deprived
his society to such a degree as. to induce her
seek temporary consolation therefor in that off
elderly Cuban gentleman, of large possession
who had lately arrived in the metropolis. Bu
that our readers may observe the constancy o
her friendship for our hero, notwithstanding th
we will report a brief conversation which she h
with Mr. Titman, about the period of Moses'sr
turn to the Evercroft House.
Mr. Titman had been kindly amusing theI
dies of the hotel, one evening, in its parlor, by
chaste performance upon that excellent instr
meant, the accordeon, in whose varied and coi
prehensive capacities he was a skillful adel
One by one the audience had gradually left
the conclusion of the entertainment, no dou
unfortunately called away by pressing duties
engagements, until she was left to enjoy his

ciety and musical abilities alone. Though she
also appeared to be frequently reminded of mat-
ters which required her presence elsewhere, and
more than once seemed resolved upon leaving;
she, nevertheless, forewent duty for pleasure,
and remained in company with the accomplish-
ed artist until he had finished his repertoire.
She had another motive for lingering than her
desire for the sensuous excitement afforded by
Mr. Titman's performance. As he triumphantly
placed his instrument in its box, she compli-
mented him not only upon his artistic skill, but
upon his general intelligence, sensibility, refined
manners, generosity, friendship, and various
other virtues of cbracter. Whereupon Mr. Tit-
man very properly endeavored to corroborate
the correctness of her remarks, by attempting on
the spot an arduous compound expression and
bearing illustrative of these numerous character-
"Ah! life itself, with its various amusements,
duties, struggles, and disappointments, is amys-
terious instrument, is it not ." continued she,
after she had again referred to his late musical
effort.
"It is," said Mr. Titman, who was waitmg o
see how she made it out.
"T hosehamusements, struggles, pains, hopes
and fears are so many keys upon whicn we are
called to play," said Miss Stacy.
" Yes, and a good many people are not allow-
ed to play on any but the minor scale," observed
Mr. Titman, apprehending her idea.
' Very true, sir. It is alas!1 true," said. Miss
Stacy, with a sigh, "I would hardly wish to in-
e clude myself among such, but-"
t  "What! have you pains, struggles, and fears
, too ?" asked Mr. Titman, gallantly. "I would
r- hardly have thought so bright a character de-
r- served them."
LI  "I appreciate your sympathy, Mr. Titman, al-
a though I am aware your feelings are prepossess-
p- ed in favor of another. Yes, I have a pain aud
ig disorder I"
g diso   ow  me," exclaimed Mr. Titman.   "Of
 -           ,,,,ow   -e
d what nature -"
le   "A general restlessness of spirit, an eagerness
h for that which I have not, a trembling suspense
it of being, a weakness at times of-"
e   o Then let me recommend to you a bottle of
is Radway's Relief. Undoubtedly a disorder of the
r- nervous system, originating in some slight bilious
ne derangement-"
of     Sir I"
to    "It is an excellent restorative, and refreshes
an, the system. The advertisement says so, at any
is, rate !"
it,   "You mistake me, sir 1" said Miss Stacy with
f  some feeling. ."You mistake me. It is spirit-
is, ual I mean, a disorder of the sensibilities 1"
ad    "Ahl! Oh! Excuse me. I thought you re-
re- ferred to a physical affection. I beg pardon,
Miss Stacy."
la-  "And alas, it is one which perhaps too great-
y a ly needs tre kind confidence and sympathy of
ru- some generous friend," continued she.
m-    "Why not mine?    I would be proud to offer
pt. it," responded Mr. Titman.
tre " The object, w-th which these feelings may be
Lbt said to be somewhat connected is a near and in-
or timate associate of yours. Yes, perhaps I a
so- judicious in confiding in you1

" Very right, madam, very right. And that
associate is, I may ask-"
"Mr. Winkfield."
"Winkfield! why, what has he been doing "
exclaimed Mr. Titman, much interested. "Ex-
cuse me, but what relations-"
" Dear me, I would reveal my delicate posi-
tion to you, Mr. Titman, but it is with the in-
junction of the strictest confidence "
"Certainly."-
"And it is for his benefit, you know, the ben-
efit of one in whom you are so deeply interest-
ed, as well as myself, that I have dared to dis-
close it to you."I
We can not resist the opportunity of observing
here that never was there, perhaps, a more beau-
tiful picture of a woman's love, cherished in se-
cret, not self-consuming in silent languishment,
not pining in thought, not passive and despond-
Ing as she asserted, but patient and hopeful,
strong in its own intensity and sustained by its
own fond faith, that either Moses or the Cuban
gentleman was destined to become hers. So in re-
sponse to Mr. Titman's earnest request to pro-
ceed, she continued:
"4I have done this solely for your advice. A
Cuban gentleman (spare me the necessity of men-
tioning his name upon my assuring you of his
undoubted refinement and exquisite sensibility-
a sensibility ever tropical in its nature, Mr. Tit-
man) has rendered me such attentions lately as
have really caused me much anxiety regarding my
connection with his future happiness. Oh I spare
my blushes, my agitation ! To be plain, I can not
decide if I could rightly give him my hand ere I
have ascertained that I should not give unneces-
sary pain thereby to another, to your noble
friend, Mr Winkfield."
"I do not know, madam. I only know that
were I in Mr. Winkfield's place, it would give
me pain !" replied Mr. Titman gallantly. "I am
unacquainted with his sentiments, but as a friend
of Mr. Winkfield, Miss Stacy, I should advise
you not to give your hand to the Spanish gen-
tleman !"
" I thank you. You relieve my feelings. Ah!
perhaps I have said too much. Surely, you will
not reveal this conversation to Mr. Winkfield ?"
"Certainly not, as it is a matter of confi-
dence."'
d"nYou, no doubt, might thereby confer a ben-
efit upon him which he ardently wishes, but you
do not think of such a step, I hope ?"
"Oh! no, certainly not !"
"There would be a definite solution.of the
matter, anid I should be entirely relieved of my
disagreeable suspense, if you informed him that
a gentleman from Cuba, at present in New-York,
stopping at the Brevoort House, and frequenting
the Evercroft Hotel-I disclose his name, the
Senor Flor do Cabanas--has wished to identify
his happiness with mine ; but I hope it is not
your intention of doing any thing of this kind."
" By no means. Rest assured in my perfect
silence and discretion, Miss Stacy !"1
" You would render your friendship with him
much stronger, and no doubt produce a display of
his gratitude at some future time; but this, assur-
edly, will not influence you ?"
" Well, as you wish it, no. Certainly, no. I
will not," replied Mr. Titman, slightly wavering
at this point.,

nYou, perhaps, feel it your dutyenotwithstand.
ing. You may, perhaps, feel it your duty at some
moment hereafter to do so, or may, quite natu-
rally, divulge it to him in an unguarded moment;
but do not, I beg of you."
"Never   Rely upon my faithfulness, Miss
Stacy!"
And Mr. Titman was faithful in his guardian-
ship of this delicate secret, for Moses never heard
the slightest word in any way whatever upon the
subject from him, and the little man thus showed
a power of reticence which was reAlly wonderful
in him, and which Miss Stacy, perhaps, hardly
expected from his somewhat unstablecharacter,
when she revealed it to him.
But if she failed in this attack uponhim, she
was still indefatigable. She endeavored to induce
the proprietor of the hotel to speak to Moses
about it, when he settled his bill; and although
this worthy person failed too, through forgetful-
ness resulting from business cares, her constancy
was unflinching in furthering her twofold deter-
mination of purpose.
On returning to the hotel, Moses concluded, as
a matter of economy, to take exclusively into his
service one of the colored waiters, instead of
keeping three -or four, as Mr. Toplady did, in the
disguise of house-servants. There was one who
had much pleased our hero by the faithfulness
with which he had attended to numerous little
wants and errands, and inquiring into his relia-
bility of the clerk of the hotel, sent for him end
made the proposition, which the delighted domes-
tic at once accepted.
" What is your family name, Brunswick ?"
asked Moses of him.
1 Hyperion, sir I My full opithet is H 'yperon
Brunswick Difficults. My author's name was
Previous Difficults," replied the domestic loqua-
ciously. "Very odd name, sir! All my male an-
cestorial relatives have borne it, and my eldest
brother in the navy bears it now."
Moses thought it was a very odd appellation,
and in reflecting for the moment upon it, imag-
ined it might have been originally bestowed
upon the great common stock of the family, by
some African chief or sovereign, perhaps, to com-
memorate troubles, into which the maternalcpar-
ent of the stock had been plunged and extricated
from, previous to his birth. He then requested
Brunswick, who was poltely making iarfeint of
arranging the room in order to remain, to pro-
ceed with further particulars of his fam1ily and
race.
"vMy father was of very playful disposition, sir;
used to come home and break all the furniture
for sport.  He was a fisherman," continued
Brunswick. "Used to bob for eels in Wallabout
bay, and sell them in the markets, sir. One day,
extremely auspicious for his piscatorial pursuits,
when it was raining, he was out in the bay, and
feeling as it were uncomfortable for to bail the
boat, he extricated a plug in the bottom to ex-
clude the water out troo the orifice, and the water
permeating through the aperture back agin,
swamped the vessel, sir. My mother-in-law seen
him from the door, but 'twant no use. He had
as high as ten pounds of leadinto his pocket, and
Ie went down to wunst"
" Ah !" said Moses, sympathizing with his do:
maestic at the sad loss.
" The boat was washed ashore," continued the

MR. WINKFIELD.


72

MR. WINKFIELD.

latter. "We picked it up. It was jest as good
as ever, all except the plug, sir. Jest as good as,
the first day it was made !"
"Ahem! yes."
"I wish he was alive now. I jest wish he was
a-livin !" said the domestic after a pause, in a kind
of subdued fury. " Wouldn't he swat that ere
Jinks across the snodgin ?"
" Eh! What?   What is that?  What is the
snodgin ?"
" I mean, as it were, jest to revenge himself
upon his protuberance, his nasal protuberance,
sir !"
"Why, what would he do that for ?" inquired
the master, benevolently noticing the deep feel-
ing with which the remark was emendatdd by his
servant. "And who is Jinks, Brunswick ?"
" That's what I'd like to tell you, if you please,
sir. I thought I ought to tell you, before I en-
gaged myself to you, sir, as I get sometimes wild,
and you might think it was caused by something
else."
"Very true, Brunswick. Proceed."
"This is one of my bad days. He was around
there this mornin'. I seed 'em a talking together
for over an hour in the wash-shed. His name is
Jinks, but he's romantic, and has took on his
mother's name, which is Lommeydew, and he's
been courting' around mother-in-law ever since
about a month after the old gentleman went the
last time a-bobbing."
" Ah! your step-mother ?"
4 Yes, my own mother deceased in my infancy,
sir. He's jist as if he belonged to the other sect;
'scuse the allusion, sir. Talking poetry and knit-
ting, and eating and drinking with fluency, and
studying for the ministry. That's the way he
comes it over her, to use a familiar phrase. All
the females of Shiloh are mad after him. She's
a good creature, and enjoys their envy, and thinks
he means what he says. When he gets to eatin'
and drinkin', he means what he does, certainly.
It's a kind of disease with him. He comes there
almost every day at dinner, when he doesn't come
in the morning to stay all day. She's eating
nothing and looking at him tenderly; and he's
all the while smiling at her, while he is hoeing
the food in heaps and shoveling it down his
thote I  And no liquor better be kept around
handy neither. Two or three times I've seen him
when he's come there in his fits, as he calls them;
fits froni his sensitive nature to poetry and reli-
gion, sir! 'Scuse me, sir," continued the unhappy
domestic, making an unconscious grasp at the
poker in his indignation.  "I could just take
and-"'
" Calm yourself, Brunswick  said Moses, much
interested. " This is all, perhaps, very natural,
and your feelings1too, are natural; but'you must
remember that it is exceedingly common for la-
dies, who have been once bereaved; to seek a
second object for their affections. And perhaps
it is a wise dispensation that such should be the
case, and indeed the wisdom, too, seems mostly
on the side of the lady."
"All he wants is her money. The old gentle-
man left her somethin', and she is industrious in
washing, until she's tuck in several hundred dol.
lars, and lie knows it. You may think, perhaps
I'd like to get it, but it is not that. No, it's be.
cause he's deceivin' her all the time, until he eanr
jest get lawful holt on that cre sum. I can'1

kick him out, for he'd only make out to her he
was abused, and she'd go in for good and run
away with him. As 'tis, if I say nothin' when I
go there, and don't do nothin' more than go
scowlin' about, neither of 'em mind me, and
things go on jest about the same. Fortnitly, as
she knows what the difference is, she seems to
like courtship better than bein' married. It's
been going' on now about four years !"
"Your course is very judicious, Brunswick,"
said Moses; "but may you not have been mis-
taken in judging of the relations between them ?
May she not consider it her duty to extend her
hospitality to him as a member of the religious
society to which she belongs, or even in ordinary
friendship, which is so delightful to see, even
though it be mistaken sometimes ?"
"No, sir," replied Brunswick, continuing fixed
in his disgust. "Ef I've seen 'em once, I've seen
'em fifty times a-huggin' of each other, and she
appears to do the most of it."
This seemed conclusive evidence to Moses, and
he proceeded:
" But still you must not permit your feelings
,to get the better of your judgment, Brunswick.
If this object of her affections is really unworthy
of them, I will assist you in your honorable and
filial endeavor to wean her from them, or at least
to impress her with his true character, ere she
takes the fatal step. Has any thing occurred
lately, which you think demands our immediate
attention, Brunswick ?"
" Oh! no, sir, only I left him this mornin',
while she was gone away to carry home her wash,
suckin' eggs in the hen-house in
"Very well, at any time when you desire to
converse with me on this subject, you may,
Brunswick. And you can now brush my clothes
and leave."
" Thank you, sir," replied the gratified Bruns-
wick, touching his forelock.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
A NOCTURNAL ADVENTURE.
Ma. WINKFIELD Well knew his friend Titman's
susceptibility to female influence, but lie was not
aware of the extent to which the latter's imagi-
nation got the better of his memory in his con-
fessions thereon. In fact, Titman did not know
it himself, and his case upon this matter. was,
no doubt, another instance of the curious anom-
aly that men can sometimes enthusiastically per-
suade themselves, as well as others, into a belief
that they are veracious when' they are not strict-
lV so.
Moses had returned from the Arebmological
Rooms to his. lodgings at the Evercroft House,
after assisting at a quiet unrolling and examina-
tion of a damaged female mummy by that learn-,
ed Egyptian scholar, the librarian, in the latter's
private office; the said mummy being a kind of
unofficial and private luxury, which the librarian
had bought for himself out of an importation,
- anid as a special favor permitted Moses to assist
,in decorticating. The research had been ex-
- tremely thorough, and the perplexing fact that
they had found within the envelop on the mum-
tmy's head a crushed Parisian hat having led to

NKFIELD.

73

MR. WI
a prolonged and indecisive colloquy, Moses was
quite exhausted. He was therefore much pleas-
ed to find Mr., Titman in his parlor, and in that
gentleman's society to turn his thoughts for the
while from th'e profound researches of historical
science to the commoner events of daily exist-
ence. Titman appeared to have something un-
common to talk about, however.
" What is the matter ?" asked Moses, noticing
his air.I
" There are moments," replied Titman with
much solemnity, "when the  Ian becoming at
once a hero and a slave is, as, it were, consider-
ing those points, a-a-heroic in his tendencies,
and as it were-but, perhaps if is better for me
to reveal to you at once the circumstances which
have surrounded me during the past week !"
" That is right, of course, go on at once," said
Moses in a sympathetic voice from his dressing-
room, while washing his hands.
"Last Sunday, Moses," commenced Mr. Tit-
man, "I was invited by a young friend of mine,
an artist from Boston, by the name of Giovanni
Brown, to make a passing call with him upon a
wealthy gentleman's family residing in Madlison
avenue, for whom he had lately been doing some
fine paintings.  Moses, the young  lady, the
daughter of the family was the only one who
happened to be at home! Singular fatality!
But let me go on quickly," continued the ardent
Thomas. "I will not rehearse the numerous
manifestations of regard observable in her con-
duct.  At this moment I sacredly withhold
them, as-as sacred even-even from your con-
fidence, Moses, and I am sure of your appreciat.
ing my delicacy. Suffice it to say, she asked
me-to call again! And, 0 Moses-but let me
proceed. I did call again-on Wednesday. Her
parent was there, the old gentleman. I endeav-
ored to behave in a modest, diffident, and unos-
tentatious way, and his sweet daughter received
me in an extremely courteous manner. Her
large black eyes swam with an unusual fustre,
but he had most unfortunately imbibed the no-
tion that I was a tufthunter, or something of that
sort. I am  sure of it. In fact, Moses," con-
tinued Titman, in a depressed way, " he--he, so to
say, pitched into me and defied me. Gracious I I
was so astonished at this unexpected thing I
was taken with a vertigo, and became so dizzy as
nearly to tumble off my chair. Miss Williams,
that's her name, endeavored to change her fath-
er's ungracious behaviour by laughing, and to
encourage and reassure me. But I still observ-
ed he was partially pacified. He kept his eyes
on me in a very suspicious manner all the while
he was going out of the room, and in the hall.
In fact, Moses; as I noticed. she was obliged to
smile at the occasion in spite of herself, I had
to get up and back out."
"It was extremely awkward," said Moses.
" Awkward! It was the hardest time I ever
had. He is an irascible, ill-natured old beng,0
and it is almost as much as a man's life is worth
to enter his house, when he is at home. 0
dear ! it is just my fortune ! But I have been
again. Moses, I-"
" Wait !" exclaimed Moses here. He remem-
bered the fickleness which had seized his friend
in the affair of the deaf girl in Dibblctown; a
ease which resulted in such a fatal manner to the
poor girl, and now the tall sisters were being de-

serted for this new object. "Before you pro-
ceed, Titman, let me know if you are serious this
time. Mind, you must know you are serious,
confound me if you mustn't," concluded Moses,
striking the table vehemently.
"Serious, Moses! Yes, I will confess to hav-
ing hitherto trifled when I should not. I have
perhaps too lightly considered the feelings and
hopes of others. But in this, I see the footsteps
of destiny before me. They beckon me, that
is, destiny beckons me to follow, Moses! We
pledged each other's troth this afternoon in the
entry of her mansion. She confessed her rash-
ness and the precipitancy of the thing, but we
both knew the fatality which drove us on."
" This is the most extraordinary thing I've ever
heard," said Moses, staring at Titman. "After
four days' acquaintance, and in -the entry "
" Yes ! We would have done it in the parlor,
but do you see, her mother was there, and she
probably would have put a stop to it," replied
Mr. Titinan minutely.
" Very well, very wellI" said Moses curtly, for
some conscientious doubts about the propriety
of such rashness and irregularity were occupying
him.
There was a meditative silence for a few mo-
ments, when Mr. Titman burst forth in the fol-
lowing -eloquent description of the lady of his
passion, being as much as he could then remem-
ber of one of a heroine he once met with in a
novel, in Dibbletown:
" 0 Moses! you can fancy nothing half so
brilliant, so beautiful, so joyous.  Luxuriant
tresses of the fairest, most silken texture; eyes
blue, and radiant as the heavens from which she
descended; checks of-"
" Wait a moment," interrupted Moses. "You
said her eyes were black a little while ago, and
now you say they are blue. You mean black of
course, don't you?"
"Did I say blue?   I mean black ocoursc,
Yes," resumed Mr. Titman, "eyes black as the
heavens from which she descended, cheeks of
rose, and lips of carnation, a skin white and pol-
ished! Ah! you should have seen it-not as
marble or snow, nor as satin it seemed - 0
Moses! and her form, Moses, by the soft power of
Venus, 'twas matchless.  Ha ! the bounding
elasticity of the child, and yet the rounded beau-
ty of the woman, arms that might serveas models
to the sculptor, hands that- looked as if only
formed to play with flowers, feet that seem al-
most too small to bear the beautiful figure. 0
such loveliness transcendent ! A perfect child in
manner too. You should have seen her, when
resisting the expostulation of her another, upon
her slight toilet, consisting of the morning che-
mise or robe, with a certain half-pouting, half-
laughing look, and arch vivacity she-"
lie was unable to go on, and Moses too was
thoroughly overcome. They stood for some time
in convulsive silence, supporting each other, until
their deep emotion had passed away. When
Moses recovered his mind, he applauded his
friend's choice. He grasped his hand, and in low
tones warmly promised his active friendship and
counsel, should it be needed, in assisting him to
win this dazzling jewel. Titman then expressed
his heartfelt gratification at this new evidence of
Moses's sympathy, and promptly followed him in
to dinner, The next day, he walked with our


74

MR. WINKFIELD.

I

hero past the house of his inamorata. On that base. You can be the tenor, Winkfield. There's
occasion his knees shook and his legs manifested no use declining; I know you've got a fine voice,
a repeated inclination to double up as he ap- and know how to sing too. Jim Simonds will do
proehed the house; but as Moses found it im- the base, and I can get little Joe Hawks, too, I
possible to induce the little man to proceed with think. He can relieve you on the tenor, when
his original intention of introducing him there or you get tired. Just the thing."
even to look at the parlor windows as they went  " And, Titman I you can bring with you your
by, he momentarily concluded that the parents' accordeon," magnanimously suggested Moses to
opposition was much stronger than his friend had his friend, who had modestly refrained from re-
depicted. Titman here confessed that the young lying upon it, in a matter of so much magnitude.
lady had not accepted him, in so many words, as  Titman trembled with anxiety and delight.
her lover; but still, the circumstances of their  " Congratulate you, old fellow. Has she got
last meeting were ample enough to warrant his lots of rocks ?" asked the fireman in delicate
concluding that she wished to do so, and he felt sympathy, as Titman blushed, and shook the
convinced that her passion would soon be dis- former's proffered hand. That very night was
closed in articulated accents. Upon this, sus- settled upon, as the weather was propitious, and
training the little man in his agitation, Moses re- " we'll have a supper at the tavern after the sere-
peatedly advised him to courageously persevere, nade" said Mr. Titman impulsively.
and pursue the thingin a manly and straightfor-  On the six o'clock New-Haven alecommodation
ward manner.                                train, the party, including the valuable acquisition
A week or two afterward, Moses again alluded of little Joe Hawks, might be seen enjoying the
to the interesting subject, and Mr. Titman in- prosp ct of a fine night's adventure. It was after
formed him of its progress:                 dark when they reached the village, and although
fome have been around there so often, that I be- but the hour of eleven had been reached, there
live the neighbors begin to take me to be a seemed no one stirring in that land of primitive
burglar reconnoitring. Confound me, if I don't. habits, excepting about the depot and adjacent
But, Moses, she's gone away. She's gone out to a hotel. An half-hour was consumed at the latter'
town in Connecticut. I got it from the grocer, in securing beds and in ordering supper to await
and the grocer got it from the maid. They've their return from the serenade. Having at the
got a country-seat at Rye, or a friend has, or bar repeatedly fortified against the night air their
somethingc of that sort, and she's gone t make a adventurous spirits, the party walked out, under
country visit. I know just where it is, and I've the lover's lead, to the temporary temple which
gota project, which I think-which I think," re- contained his goddess. They at last found it, on
peated Mr. Titman mysteriously yet triumphantly, the distant side of the village. .After some mis-
" will succeed in furthering my hopes more than giving on the part of the impassioned swain, as
all the visits I could pay her here. What do you to its being the right place, and upon the part of
think of it'?"                              Moses, that there might be dogs upon the premi-
Moses intimated that he would be a better ses, they quietly opened the front-gate, and pro-
judge, when he heard what the project was, and needed with whispers to arrange themselves upon
thereupon Mr. Titman informed him that he had the grass, in front of thd mansion, and under the
brilliantly conceived the grand stroke of bringing window, where it wa supposed the fair lady
the sympathetic power of music to bear upon most likely lay dreaming. It was an exquisite
events, and in fact, to give her a serenade, "say moment, full of poetry and romance, but Mos an
of a small brass band, or a distinguished pianist, Tndefined fear pervaded the bosom of Moses.
or a quartet of voices !"                    There was an unearthly stillness reigning, and in
Moses entered at once into it. "But," said he, addition to that, the odd idea had suddenly taken
"I disapprove of the band, entirely. No woman persistenthbold of his mind, that there was a sick
can ever be delicately affected by the sight of baby in the back part of the house, who not until
six fat Germans, puffing and scraping under her then had been fairly quieted by its worn-out par-
window. Never ! never !" said he with an em- ents, after a whole evening's efforts.
phatic gesture. "And how arc you going to     The house was a large whiteone with green
arrange a serenade with a piano !"         blinds, standing at the junction of two streets,
"I thought we might back one up in a furni- and surrounded b a fine grove e of maple trees.
ture-wagon in front of her window, replied Titp Now it so happened, that the fowls of this
man. "It would be novel, and the pianist could neighborhood were of a race which, despite
easily sit in the wagon and play upon it."  a longr domestication and training by man, had
"No," said Moses energetically.  No pianist hereditarily cherished a love for nature, and much
of any note would ever consent to such an ar- preferred such conveniences as she offered for
rangement." their necessitiesktoo those constructed by the
"4Well, but how are we to get the quartet ." 1andiwork.of man. Thus, a noble band of tur-
asked Titman in a faltering voice.          keys was at that very moment, in the midst of
" To be sure, that is a point," replied -Moses, those very trees, undergoing a recuperation of
reflecting very prudently for his friend upon the physical power after a long summer day of laces-
well-known exorbitance of professional singers. sant darting at and pecking of insects, involving
The entrance of some one interrupted the inter- the usual nervous exhaustion resulting from the
esting conference. It was that enthusiastic fire- frequent fights incident thereto. Startled from
boy, Mr. Barnard, to whom they at once confided the depth of slumber at that dead hour of the
the affair. He was delighted, and dissipated their nght, by unexpected, a, w  a ,unearthly
hesitation by instantly settling the difficulties, sounds, it was natural that uad te veryouirt bar,
"'Common thing. We don't want any operatic the responsible gobber sholdgive ou   pon
singing. You both can sing. So can I. There the air,. long and loud, a cry of apprehension.-
is a fellow down at Five's house, who's a first-rate Equally natural was it, for the entire band, once

MR. WINKFIELD.

I

aroused, to keep up, as the strains continued, an
unceasing inquiry or anguished criticism there-
upon. A novel emendation was thus made of
the usually charming nocturn, selected for open-
ing the occasion, in some such manner as the
following:
Ort In the stilly night,
(Gobble, gobble, gabble,)
When slumber's chains have bound me,
(Gaobble gobb, gobble gobb, gobble,) etc."
The musicians were overpowered with emotion,
and their voices quavered. The efforts of such
as were naturally less concerned in the ultimate
success of the mission, were suffused with a dis-
position of laughter; but deep irritation was
plainly observable in'the manner of Mr. Wink-
field, as well as Mr. Titman's, the latter having
but then fairly started in convulsively tossing his
instrument in the air, after the approved fashion
of supplying it wi   wind. -Besides this, the
prompt efforts of Mr. Barnard to dislodge the
disagreeable fowls, though praiseworthy, seemed
but to hasten the undertaking to an ignominious
failure. In addition to the cry of the birds, the
frequent passage of brickbats and other missiles
through the thick foliage of the trees and their
heavy fall upon the ground or the roof of the
mansion, while they failed to expel the birds,
obliterated what other emotions may have been
aroused in the bosoms of the half-awakened occu-
pants of the dwelling, by the powerful one of fear.
"Hallo !" cried a voice from   a chamber.
"Who are you ?   What the d-1 are you doing"j
there ?"
"'Stop!" said Mr. Winkfield to his companions.
"Wait a moment! Hey ?" replied he, rather
faintly to the alprupt inquiries of the person in theI
chamber.
" D-n you, I'll be at you presently " said
that individual.
"I think we had better go quietly off," here
whispered Mr. Titman nervously, beforee they
find us out. We can try it again some other
night. I think we had better go."
I know you, you scoundrels !" again exclaim-
ed the now thoroughly aroused gentleman, his
theory being confirmed by the -general failure to
reply. "Leave those turkeys! Drop'em, I say l"
"Really, really, I believe they think we have
come here to steal their turkeys I" said Mr. Titman.
"IHe does, and it certainly demands an expla-
nation," said our hero promptly, feeling that the
honor of the party was thus awkwardly involved.
"Sir! my dear sir, Mr. Williams," exclaimed
he, bespeaking a hush around him, and advancing
toward the window, " if you will permit me to--"
He was about to proceed, when he observed
that the excited gentleman had disappeared from
the window. There was a scuffling noise in the
chamber, as of a man in a slight difficulty with
his pantaloons, and then an apparent rush
through the hall to the rear.
"Sam! Jim! Good God, thieves! The tur-
keys !" were the next words that struck their
startled sense, and these were immediately fol-
lowed by a concert of two or three females in dis-
tressf . .
"This is no time for' parley E The whole vil-
lage will be in an uproar, before we can satisfy
him," -said our hero hastily.- " Good gracious,
how unfortunate ! We had better get out of the
difficulty by escaping at once" -

I

And with this philosophical solution, he and
the two young fire-gentlemen at once followed
the agitated Titman, who had left about ten
seconds before, and rushed out of the garden. In
the mean time the adventurous Barnard, who
had slipped to the rear of the house to procure a
pole for the wholesome purpose of keeping order
in the unwelcome audience to their proposed
concert, was detected by the two serving-men in
the act of removing a rail from the barn-yard fence,
and was atonce engaged in a sharp contest with
these faithful domestics. With one sweep of his
impromptu weapon he had knocked one of them
into insensibility and a dungheap near by, and had
already clenched with the second, when the vigil-
ant friend, the retreating basso relieve, leaped the
side fence in rescue, followed inespit dai corps by
the tenor, just as the excited proprietor of the
mansion, who had been somewhat delayed by the
frantic embraces of his wife and daughters, tore
around the corner in pursuit of Moses. The race
between this gentleman and our hero was a short
one. Such was the remarkable speed of the lat-
ter, urged on by the thought of disgrace in his
rear, which had been aroused by a dim idea of
Barnard's operations, that he, no doubt, would
have overtaken the panic-stricken Titman, and es-
caped the excited proprietor, particularly as the
latter made the mistake in his confusion of stop-
ping to knock up the village doctor. But roost
unfortunately, in the course of his flight, Moses
came intoabrupt contact with an old lady, who had
happened to come outof asick-room,where she was
watching, to look up the sti-eet and see what was
the matter. The unhappy female was scared into
dreadful fits and insensibility, even if she were not
so knocked by our hero's physicalmomentum. The
candle which she held over her head flew half a
dozen feet into the road. Moses stopped to pick
it up. All consideration of personal disgrace or
danger passed from his mind at the moment, and
in his alarmed benevolence he turned to lift the
rigid old lady from the ground, when the proprie.
tor of the fowls came up. The parley was short.
" Scoundrel !" said the proprietor.
" Allow me, allow me to explain, Mr. Wil-
liams," said our hero hastily. " You will soon
see that such ungentlemanly epithets should not
be idly-"
"My name an't Williams !"
"But you know him. He's stopping at your
house, from the city."
" Ie can't, you d-d rascal, and there's no such
person about I You infernal rascal 1 Murder,
thieves," said the other. "Good GodI what's
this ? Poor old widow Simpson, murdered too !"
With these words he made a blow at our hero,
and at once attempted to seize him. Moses felt
it to be his imperative duty to protect himself as
best he could. He administered a successful tap
upon the nose of his excited assailant, which
seemed to paralyze the latter's intelligence, and
then followed that up by punching him power,
fullyand rapidly, two or three times, in the abdo-
men. He was a stout, able-bodied, country geo-
tleman. He stood for a moment gasping for the
breath which was thus rudely expelled from his
person, and then, slowly wavering, gradually sank
upon the ground, which he watered with thec
blood from his nose, at a short distance from tihe
unfortunate old lady
Moses then, in melancholy grandeur, stalked


76                               MR. WIN
off to the ddpot, where, after some search, he
found Mr. Titman secreted behind two barrels in a
merchandise shed.  We do not propose , to
minutelv recount the ipanner in which Mr. Bar-
nard and his friends escaped. We will merely
state that they were accustomed to pugilistic en-
counters, and that Mr. Barnard in accidentally visit-
ing the hospital at Hartford six months after-
ward, concluded it to be his duty to leave a con.
siderable sum of money for the benefit of a con-
valescing patient he saw there. Both he and his
friends shortly joined Mr. Winkfield and Titman
at the depot in high spirits. A night train was
opportunely coming along, and the whole party
were seated therein and on their way back, be-
fore Mr. Titman had recovered from his palpita-
tion, before Moses had time to reflect upon the
doubtful termination of the night's adventure, or
Mr. Barnard and friends to recollect the banquet
which awaited them at the village tavern.
The next 'morning's issue of the Rye Gazett
contained a terrible and startling account of a
general onslaught upon its quiet town by a band
of English burglars from the city, seventeen it
number, in which Moses had the dubious pleasure
of reading that Squire Tompkins and two of hit
men, were lying in a dangerous condition from
wounds received at the hands of the ruffian des
peradoes; that the widow Simpson's house ha
been robbed from top to bottom, and the unhapp;
proprietor herself frightened to death. The ac
count was somewhat exaggerated, no doubt, bu
it was enough to keep the aroused community o
Rye in an excitement for weeks thereafter.
-4..-
CHAPTER XXXIV.
MISS DE POMPENKOPS CONFIDES HER SOCIAL NEED
TO MR. TOPLADY, WHICH ACT OF FRIENDS)
RESULTS IN A VERY IMPULSIVE PROCEEDING UPO
HIS PART.
MR. ToPLADY had vigorously kept up his siege
to Miss De Pompenkops's affections, and by n
merous interviews with her, had reason to thin
he had materially advanced his positio
Though from her characteristic delicacy be sa
no prospect of conquest, unaided, he still f
that his intimacy with her would now warra
the intervention of some common friend. F
this purpose he delicately intimated to  h
nephew, his desire of securing at some future p
riod that of Miss Wagbull. In the mean time
mania for secretaries and readers had becor
prevalent in fashionable circles, and MissI
Pompenkops, under the influence of the diste
per, had applied to Miss Wagbull for her advi
upon the best method of procuring a reliable or
We give the reader the following conversati
which took place in Miss De Pompenkops's p
lor one afternoon between that lady and Mr. T
lady, as a natural consequence of this state of
fairs, and as furthermore illustrating the progrc
of the latter's suit, which made therein an-
vance, undoubtedly unexpected to all parties.
" Mr. Toplady, Miss Wagbull and I were c~
versing to-day about a matter of interest to m
said Miss De P'ompenkops, after a few momen
conversation.
" Ah I'" said Mr. Toplady, on the qui vi

[KFIELD-
(" The dear girl! Can she have already smoothed
the way for something?")
" And she alluded to the fact,'" continued Miss
De Pompenkops, hesitating, '"that you, Mr. Top-
lady, were especially fitted and would be willing
to supply a great social need I have I"
" Great heavens " exclaimed Mr. Toplady, with
ill-concealed joy. "Yes, yes, my dear Miss De
Pompenkops-pardon me if I now thus address
you-Miss Wagbull has already been apprised of
my-my willingness to supply that want! (Moses
must have done it !)"
"Then you think you can, without any trouble,
fill the situation for me?"
"Fill the situation?  Try me, madam!" ex-
claimed Mr. Toplady, mad with joy. "Command
me at once as your slave, to-to-"
"I thank you, Mr. Toplady, for this warm evi-
dence of your friendship. In taking into con-
sideration your knowledge of your fellow-men,
e your experience in judging of character, and,
above all your knowledge of Italians and the
I Italian language which has been necessary in your
business, she thought you were especially adapted
e to gratify me."
s   " Knowledge of Italians !" exclaimed Mr. Top-
1 lady confusedly.
-   " Oh! yes. Mamma thinks I'd better have a
d person who can read the Italian to me in my
y mornmg hours."
-   " Ah  she is right! Your respected mother
it is quite right !" continued Mr. Toplady approving-
of ly. "There will be no difficulty in me upon that,
my dear-friend I"
" I want a person of good education, of real
refinement, Mr. Toplady ; of a tender, respectful
regard for the amenities of society, a person pos-
sessing a good disposition, one who has a critical
taste in poetry, and is religiously disposed."
DS  "And in me, dear Miss De Pompenkops," cried
1P Mr. Toplady, rising in ardor; "in me, do you
N as well as Miss Wagbull see one who can supply,
you with all these virtues ?"
"I do; and there is one more desideratum,
ge Mr. Toplady, which I think I had better mention,
u- before you accept my proposition, and that is,
k that there will be no objection to sleeping in the
n. servants' dormitory, and eating with the butler."
w "Sleeping in the dormitory, and eating with
elt the butler !" ejaculated Mr..Toplady aghast, and
nt pausing in the gallant action he was contem-
or plating. "I hope, ma'am, my dear Miss De Pom-
is penkops, that you will not, meist upon that.
Pe- Never! madam. Never can it be agreed to !"
a    "What ! do you think so? Then I will not
me think of it. It is perhaps immaterial !" replied
De the young lady.
m-    "Ah ! you are true to yourself in doing so,"
ice said Mr. Toplady with renewed ardor, taking her
ne. hand. "And when in the course of events,"
on continued he tenderly, looking the young lady
ar- in her eyes, "there shall be little prattlers about
op- this household, would you, would you have any
af- objection to--          ,    .
ess   "Prattlers, Mr. Toplady !' exclaimed the young
ad- lady, faintly endeavoring to withdraw her hand.
" Yes, children." ,
o- " Whose children, Mr. Toplady ?" asked the
a,"' young lady in astonishment. ..
ts' " Why,. ours to be sure ! But I see, I was
foolish to mention the subject now, and as your
ye. accepted faithful lover and proud husband, let

MR. WINKFIELD.

me on my knees, imprint a chaste kiss upon this
fair hand," said Mr. Toplady hurriedly, and suit-
ing the action to the word. "I live but in your
eyes, the touch of your smile thrills my being !"
With a short, hysterical shriek, the young
lady drew back, gasped for articulated utterance,
and then assuming a terrible attitude of dignity,
motioned him away from her.
"My dear-Miss De Pompenkops, I-"
"Don't speak to me, sir I"
"But gracious ! I--" .
"If you have any sense of decency left, and do
not wish me to cause you to be expelled by the
servants, you will immediately leave my presence,
sir !"
"Good heavens! But my dear Miss De Pom-
penkops, I meant no offense. I-"
"How dare you, sir, have presumed to address
me, sir, in the manner you did ?"
"As for that, ma'am, my dear Miss De Pom-
penkops, was not I warranted by your kind
words in-"
" Warranted! More insults? But leave me,
sir. Leave me !"
"(Devil ! what prudery! She is willing to
have me as a husband, but is not willing to have
me kiss her hand!) If you wish me to, Miss De
Pompenkops, I will!"
"I do, sir."
"Very well, I will then obey your wishes !"
"You may go with the assurance that I par-
don your presumption, and that I at least shall
not think it due to either of us, to mention this
scene to any one."
" I thank you, madam," replied the exercised
and bewildered Toplady. "But mayvI-may I-
call again ?"y
" Your own judgment must direct you in that,
sir," replied the young lady coldly. "If you
should think it best, you will, of course, be hon-
orable enough to assure me by your conduct that
I have been right in leaving it to you."
With this terrible speech, the young lady]
haughtily withdrew from the room, and the un-
fortunate Toplady left her mansion in bewildered
dejection. All h's old suspicion and antipathy to
the sex came back upon him. " She is a proud,
cold girl, or else she is dreadfully delicate, or
else she was thinking too much of her money,
or else she loves some one else ! That confound-
ed Beekman! No, no, it can not be, it's me.
She told me so in as many words, by heaven !
What does it mean? I wonder if it is always the
way with 'em in such cases! I ought to have
gone on-I ought to have gone on-and kissed
her !"
CHAPTER    XXXV.
MOSES' GOES ON A DELICATE MiSSION FOR MR.
TITMAN, INTO THE GREAT STATE OF NEW-JERSEY.
THE proverb that "faint heart ne'er won fair
lady," refers ~to the superhuman energy which
men are required to exert, when ladies arc of that
kind, who can not be easily deluded into the be-
lief that the lover is the most perfect of earthly
beings, or when their parents or other "surround-
log circumstances," render it impossible for
them to have any definite estimate of their lover's

character at all. Either of these alternatives
may have been the case of Mr. Titman, but
whether the one or the other was the obstacle
he saw before him, Ie did not falter in his pas-
sionate ardor. Thus it was but a few days after
the unsatisfactory termination of his musical es-
say he disclosed to Moses, that he had been oc-
cupying his spare moments in reconnoitering the
situation of his inamorata and her family, through
the means of confidential agents in the shape of
small boys and grocery-men, resulting in the in-
formation that the young lady's visit to Rye had
been already concluded, ere the attempted musi-
cal offering, but that she had now permanently
departed with the remainder of her family in its
annual retreat, to their own country place in
the delightful confines of Newark, New-Jersey.
From the reports laid before him by his scouts,
he had inferred that the severity of the stern
parent's care over his daughter's social relations,
was undoubtedly chronic in its nature, and that
much difficulty might be naturally apprehended
from the prosecution of his proposed suit. For
this reason he again sought the wise counsel and
practical aid of Mr. Winkfield in the matter, and
by a mixture of timidity and ardor increasing
Moses's sympathy and admiration, at once secured
both.
"You think that Miss Williams is perfectly
assured of the depth of your sentiments toward
her ?" inquired Moses with habitual prudence.
"Ye-es, yes," replied Mr. Titman, who was
well assured of it himself, if she was not.
"And you say you were enabled to follow
them to Newark?" continued Moses still in inves-
tigation.
"Yes, and I found out from the parcel ex-
pressman, just where they live in Bloomington.
The house is as secluded as a convent. I am
confident she is cruelly treated. No one there,
and she is shut up like a nun."
' " I hope not," replied our hero. "But we are
authorized to do something, and as it is impossi-
ble for you to see her at present without difficulty,
the first step seems to be a note from you, asking
her permission to continue your friendship with
her, to secretly counteract such unjust rigor."
" A note ! what is the good of that? It would
fall into the hands of her father, who would treat
her with more severity than ever !"
"No, I will see her personally."
"You !" exclaimed Titman, who seemed mo
mentarily doubtful whether Moses might not pos-
sibly be trying to become principal instead of sec-
ond in the matter.
" Yes, I will place the note in her hands my-
self," continued Moses generously.
" But I didn't think of writing to her just yet !"
" What! You are serious, are you not ?"
asked Moses sternly.
"Oh! yes. Yes," exclaimed Mr. Titman, who
felt authorized to be positive on this point.
"Then you can't begin too soon. No man
ever yet successfully wooed a woman without
being obliged to spend a great deal of time in
writing to her. They demand it. Because it is
etiquette, I suppose. And under the circum-
stances of her parent's opposition, it is absolute-
ly necessary, as a voucher for the sincerity of the
future surreptitious and underhanded measures
which it is highly probable you will have to
take."


MR. WINKFIELD.
"Very well then,' faltered  Mr. Titman. pation of sleeping on barrels or boxes on thel
4"There certainly will be no harm in it, will sunny side of the streets.
there ?"                                      "Easy place for laboring men tolive in, eb,
"Harm! took here, Titman," again exclaim- Hezekiah ?" said he to his ancient driver.
ed Moses. "You are sure you are not attempt-  "Yes, indeed, sar. But not nyear so much
ing to grossly deceive this young lady ?  To idly as in de old Reblushon times,- when slavery
trifle once more with-"                     wasn't 'bolished hyar, Master, I spec !"
" Oh ! no ! never !" replied Mr. Titman, who felt " How? Do you believe that can be so, Heze-
assured of his own earnestness, if of nothing else kiah ?" asked Moses.
in the matter.                                "'Deed, I do, massa. All wes cullerd folks
" Then write the note; and as the only danger wants it back, too."                .
to be foreseen from it lies in the possibility of its  "By heaven! such is the political demoraliza-
falling into the hands of her unjust parent, I will tion of this unhappy State, that even the negroes
see that it does not, by heaven, by carrying it themselves are in favor of slavery!" thought
myself !" continued Moses in energetic friendship. Moses.
"But hadn't I better wait and deliver it to her  "Fine times, dem Reblushon tines was, Nar.
myself, at some future opportunity ?" said Mr. Fit well- de Newarkers, sar I" continued the
Titman, still apparently feeling the importance of darkey.
the step he was about to take.                "Yes! they did, I believe. They were quite
" Ridiculous !  Who ever heard of a man, patriotic, I think." .
carrying his own letters to another ?  It is a fine  " ies! on de- side of de 3ritishers.  Yah
day and only eleven o'clock, and I will go over Yah !"
this very day with it.".,                     As Moses did not reply to this, a silence ensued
" But hadn't you better take Brunswick or some and they drove on. They soon reached the place
one else with you ?" again repeated Mr. Titman of alighting, laid down upon an impromptu chart
in growing excitement. "In case of any difficul- which had been drawn from his memory by Mr.
ty, you know."                              Titman. It was a small country-store, keptkby a
"Difficulty! What difficulty?  No, I can find woman, and adjacent to a small school-house.
out the means of its safe delivery better by my- Moses dismissed the vehicle, and under the pre.
self. Ahd if I don't succeed to-day, I can go to- tense of prospecting the neighboring residences
morrow. You shall succeed, my dear boy," re- and villas, with a view to purchase, spent some
plied the generous Moses.                   time with the apple-womari in gathering informa-
Mr. Titman shut himself up in the bed- tion.    Mr. Titman's statements were partially
chamber, for the composition of the epistle, and corroborated. "No visitors were stopping at Mr,
presently returned with it delicately sealed and Williams's villa yet," but she believed, " the ladies
scented. Moses called Brunswick, and informing were expecting some during the season. Mr.
him that he had an engagement for the day iu Van Voartese's was half a miled down the road,
Jersey, gave him his liberty.               and Mr. Williams was a miled or more! Didn't
" Thank you, sir," replied the domestic. "But hearn tell of its being to sell. There was a good
are you going to Jersey, sir. Rather dangerous, big garding about for ladies to ramble in, and
sir. They hate the Americans so. They and the children to hollow, and yellow. Miss Williams
Coney Islanders !" frequently rambulled into it, and sot down into
" They hate citizens of other localities ?" asked the arbor." .
Moses in astonishment.                       "Are you a native of New Jersey, madam ?"
"Yes, sir, and they dogglewhack'em whenever inquired Moses.
they kin !" P' No, I'm from the State er Maine.                                   Cow
"They what ?" inquired both Moses and Mr. here to teach school, but I gin it up, as I couldn't
Titman. "What do you mean by dogglewhack ?" get a livin' by it."
" Why, invite 'em into bar-rooms, and then  Here as she commenced to inflict punishment
leave 'em to pay for the drinks"        -   upon her small boy, the penalty of soiled habili-
" Very well. You may leave," said Mosem, ap- ments, causing a sound somewhat similar to the
parently satisfied with this explanation.   intermittent noise of a paddle-wheel of a* steam-.
He arrived safely in the noon train at the boat, Moses left her.
Newark depot, and awaited there until the pas-  He sauntered  along from  the store in his
sengers had disappeared. - The ticket-master and feigned tour of inspection toward the immediate
a suspicious dirty-faced gentleman, smoking a neighborhood of the Williams retreat. The sun
clay pipe, were the only white persons who re- had already sunk behind the hills, the wind was
mained, and the colored population was represent- blowing gently, and the robins along the shaded
ed by an old snuff-taking darkey standing in the road were singing their loudest. He felt a plea-
sun, awaiting the arrival of the passengers and sant emotion in observing that this beautiful
the expected sneeze. This latter possessed an country was gradually being rescued from the
odd-looking, ancient vehicle, evidently accus- barbarous natives, by the influx of enlightenment
tomed to the wants of suburban visitors. Moses and civilization from other climes, and-mentally
at once hired it, and proceeded toward that dis- expressed the conviction that the time would ulti-
taut precinct of the town known to the old in- mately come when its legislature would, no doubt,
habitants as Higgins's farm, and to the more re- consent to the great amendments of the Federal
cent ones as Bloomington. He enjoyed the ride constitution in favor of those principles. By the
through the town very muck, the passing view of time he had arrived at the corner-post, marking
the public buildings, and the peculiarly lovely the dominions of Mr. Williams, the first gentle
ladies, making their purchases in the various mixture of light -and darkness ruled the scene,
stores, and the immense number of indolent ne- and every thing seemed propitious to his debut as5
groes, everywhere engaged in the laudable becu- an amateur postman. The house and grounds

MR. WINKFIELD.

were situated upon a corner made by the road
and a lane, and surrounded by a lofty fence of
ornamental pickets. A large number of fruit-
trees graced the grounds, and in the middle, a
grape arbor suggested the spot, to which the
young lady was accustomed to repair, at just
such a sentimental hour, to speculate upon the
chances of escaping to some watering-place dur-
ing the season, or of persuading her father to re-
lax his eccentric parental vigilance, in reference
to Mr. Titman and such other beaux as she
might have. The families of the neighborhood
had returned from their drives, and Mr. Williams
and his were then probably engaged in the sedate
enjoyment of their tea.
"I think I can see them at the table in the
back-room," said' Moses, looking through the
fence and intervening foliage from the secluded
lane. " If she comes out into the arbor after tea,
it wjll be an easy matter. I can quietly whisper
to her, through the fence, from whom I come, and
at once hand her the letter."
As if to give assurance to his words, a young
lady here appeared upon the piazza, accompanied
by an elderly one, evidently her mother.
" How unlucky ! Extremely ill-timed upon the
part of the old lady. She is looking directly this
way, too, and may take me for an improper char-
acter, if she sees me," thought he, slipping be-
hind a tree.
Suddenly the old lady sneezed, and took her-
self into the house, while her daughter appeared
to settle upon the piazza, as if for the purpose of
more permanently enjoying the fresh air and'
pleasant scene.
" Good! Now is my 'time. She is entirely
alone. No one at the windows !"
He hazarded attracting the attention of other
members of the family ; but lie opened a side-
gate near him and quietly walked in. Embold-
ened by his success, lie took a few paces and
gained a heavy box-bush, where lie again paused
to reconnoitre. A gentleman emanated from the
house, stopped a moment upon the piazza to sniff
the fresh air, then descrying a hoe, lying upon
the grass within ten feet of Moses's ambush, pro-
ceeded to take the instrument, with a i itter, to-
ward the stable.
" Confound that John I Leaves every thing
about. There's that side-gate unlocked, and wide
open again for the cows to enter to-night 1"
By a vigorous hop, Moses gained an adjoining
bush, which he shortly exchanged-while the
gentleman was engaged in locking the side-gate,
the only facile means of egress-for the entrance
of a wood-shed, adjoining the stable. Presently
the gentleman approached thi very wood-shed
with the hoe in his hand, and Moses fled further
into a wash-house, the next in the chain of offices,
and adjacent to the kitchen. Here he stood up
as close as he could against the wall in a dark
corner, with a slight perspiration upon his brow.
"John! Here! Come here, John !" cried the
gentleman, irritably from the wood-shed.
A chair was quickly drawn back from a table
in the kitchen at this summons, and a man there-
from passed within two feet of Moses to obey it.
To add to his growing uneasiness at his position,
Moses listened for fifteen minutes subsequently to
a terribly dreary exhortation and apology between
the master and man at tme entrance of the wood-.
shed, upon the subject of the hoe, gate, and other

derelictions. It seems as though they never
would have done, and had taken root at the door
of the wood-house.
"This is unfortunate !" reflected Moses. " The
hope of succeeding this time appears vain. And
gracious! it will be unpleasant to be caught here
now    I couldn't explain myself. As soon as
they go, if they ever will, I'll quietly regain the
yard, and edge round to the front-gate."
Circumstances beyond his control immediately
rendered this reflection apparently useless. A
light was struck in the adjoining kitchen, and fell
with particular illuminating power upon the very
corner in which he stood, while a noise of chairs
being drawn back from the supper-table therein,
announced that the domestics had at last appeased
the cravings of their appetites. A tall wicker
clothes-hamper, half-filled with unwashed linen,
stood near our hero. He could not attempt to
leave the wash-house under the circumstances,
and there was no place of concealment but in
this. He therefore grabbed in agitation an arm-
ful of clothes therefrom, mounted the adjacent
wash-bench, and sliding ignominiously into the
basket, at once covered himself with the clothes.
That this was a timely measure no one can doubt.
The wash-house was a favorite place of evening
resort to the domestics. Its brick floor protected
them from the damps of the night, and the even-
ing wind, blowing through, rendered it especially
agreeable to those seeking a safe effect thereof
on the warm summer night. The apartment was,
almost immediately after Moses's prompt conceal-
ment, occupied by the cook and housemaid, who
naturally preferred a pleasant rest there to the
labor of removing the banquet, and of washing
the dishes, which they had left to the scullion.
They were presently joined by the returning
coachman, and all three proceeded to enjoy them-
selves after their manner, in the delights of con-
versation and uncouth flirtation, apparently with
the intention of prolonging the same for an hour
or two at the very least.
The house cat, following her habits also, entered
likewise, and after a short tour of purring about
the various occupants, with a leap proceeded to
cosily settle herself in the identical clothes-basket
in which our hero was secreted, and directly over
his heatd.  What were his sensations in this Fal-
staffian retreat?  In the garden, his foolings were
alive with adventure. In the wood-shed, hc had
bravely scorned the imminent chances of being
consigned to a constable. His spirit in the cause
of his friend, mounted high in the corner of the
wash-house, and here, with an ample opportunity
of reflecting upon the rectitude of that cause, it
must have mounted still higher; but how lie
wished they would goI It was not his moral na-
ture which failed him, but his physical.  His
cramped position became unendurable, and lie
had to move. As lie commenced to  do so, the
cat, alarmed from her doze, jumped up hastily,
smelt about for a moment, and then with renewed
assurance nestled once more in her position. A
few moments elapsed. The excruciation of Mo.
uses' posture culminated again, and he again was
forced to relieve himself. The cat, with swelled
tail and back, growled and spit in fright, and
dashed maldly to the floor, between the talkative
domestics.
"Gracious me! What's the matter with the cat?"
ctied the housemaid. " Here Jenny, puss, kit, kit I4

79


80                 MR. WINKFIELD..                                             I

"I do know! There's a rat or something' inf
the basket, John," said the cook, as they allI
paused at the evolutions of the animal.I
" Do go and see," said the housemaid timidly.
" Well, I will," was the answer of the man, A
It was all over!1 There was no use in any at-I
tempt by Moses to escape. The coachman held
him firmly in the basket, until the excited females
informed the head of the house, and in a few
moments, stoutly secured, he was led into the
library to await the arrival of the village con-
stable, for whom a boy had been at once hastily
dispatched to Bloomington Centre. The particu-
lars of the subsequent proceedings in this affair
were very disagreeable to our hero, but they
must be related. He thought not of endeavoring
to avoid a speedy consignment to the county jail
upon the dreadful charge of burglary. No, he
thought only of avoiding a betrayal of his friend's
cause in an explanation. In the grandeur of his
spirit, he resolved to say nothing at all about the
sacred secret, and as he had little to say about
any thing else, to rely for extrication upon a pro-
pitious destiny and the chance of covertly appris-
ing the young lady of his character as Titman's
ambassador. She appeared in the library among
the rest. But in vain did he endeavor to attract
her notice, by contorting his expressive counten-
ance'in silently fashioning the magic name of her
lover., The more decided his efforts to make the
syllables appear distinct upon his lips, the greater
was the mingled astonishment, concern, and risi-
bility of all the parties present. His gentlemanly
bearing and intellectual features precluded the
possibility of his being a professional house-
breaker. Linked with his extraordinary grimaces
and his remarkable reticence, they led to the
very strong theory that he was drunk, and finally
to the stronger one that he was insaine.
" What did you want in the wash-house, my
man ?" inquired the master of the house for the
fiftieth time.
"Come, speak up, feller, haven't ye got a
tongue?" reiterated the constable, while the fe-
males kept up the discordant chorus of "The
dreadful creature!  Poor young man! How I
pity him! How wild he looks !" etc., etc.
" TitmanI Mr. Titman! Miss Williams, can
I have a few moments' conversation with you?"
at last said the prisoner audibly to the young
lady, unable to endure his pantomimic exercise
any longer.
"With me ?" ejaculated the young ladyin fear.
"Why, what does he wish, papa? He speaks
of a Mr. Titman. Who is Mr. Titman, papa?"
"What!" roared Moses excitedly. "Do you,
mean to say, Miss,. that you have not lately be-
come acquainted, in New-York, with a young
gentleman of small stature, who has expressed a
decided preference for your society, and-"
"I assure you, papa, I know no such person !"
replied the young lady with a mixture of incre-
dulity and curiosity.
" Then you do not lfhow this handwriting!"
continued Moses dildly, and succeeding in show-
ing a corner of the note in his vest-pocket.
The note was extracted.  It was a copy of
Byron's poem to Mary, and signed " Theodore
the stranger." The contents were a proof to
Moses, that he had been gros-hy deceived by Tit-
man upon the degree of time latter's intimacy
with the young lady, for that gentleman was con-

fessing in the very signature, perhaps, that he
was a stranger to her. To the constable, they
were a proof that he was an adroit housebreaker,
with a deliberated plan. To the rest, that he was
crazy with disappointed love. A final consulta-
tion was held, to assist in which a neighbor was
called in, a member of the Jersey legislature,
who suggested that our hero should be carried to
the " New-Jersey State Asylum for Idiots and In-
sane Persons," as it was felicitously situated but
three miles therefrom, on the road to Paterson.
And a most humane suggestion it was, too, for
the gentleman himself, in company with many of
the body to which he belonged had been there,
and from personal experience of the treatment,
knew it to be a very pleasant and mildly con-
ducted institution. A compromise was at last
made with the constable, who had proposed
carrying him to the Newark jail, and by and
with that functionary's agency and consent, our
hero was carried for the night to the asylum, in
the family carriage of Mr. Williams, with the
prospect of a medical examination in the morn-
ing, and, no doubt, a judicial one speedily there.
after.
He escaped from this institution, upon the
morning of the second day of his incarceration,
by knocking down the doctor and two of the
keepers, and tearing energetically out of the back-
gate. He arrived safely in New-York, but with
what feelings ? His confidence in Titman was,
we may say, entirely gone. He sought that dere-
lict party, with the vague intention of seeking
compensation for the suffering he had undergone,
in his delusive cause, by personal satisfaction.
Ip particular did he dwell in his vehement up-
braiding, upon the powerful dose of jalap and
the fourteen showe'-baths to which they had
subjected him in his short stay in the asylum.
The penitent Titman made a hasty confession of
the true state of his relations with the young lady,
which consisted simply, in his having picked up a
handkerchief dropped by the young lady in the
street, of having been eccentrically tendered fifty
cents as a reward therefor by her mother accom-
panying her, and of his infatuatedly watchig
their progress home, and subsequent movements
to Rye and other places.
"And were you introduced to them by your
friend the Boston painter ?" asked his inquisitor
sternly.
"No, no. He said he knew them, but be had
to go away !" replied Mr. Titman in utter con-
fusion.
"And you never went to her house at all!"
continued the inquisitor.
" Ye-es. Yes. I went with his card. But
I saw only Mr. Williams in the hall, and he was
so savage at me, I had to tell him I was looking
for some one else, and I came away. I couldn't
stand him !"
" And you did not mutually plight your troth
in the entry ?"
"N-o-o! No!"
"Titman !" said Moses, passing sentence. "I
consider you an impostor and a dangerous person
to be about in society ! My reliance upon your
stability of character, at least in such matters as
these, is gone altogether. But for your sake and
in consideration of my friendship for you, I con-
sent not to divulge this matter to any one."
" Thank you !" said the relieved Titman.

"And    I expect you will not," concluded
Moses.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
JINKS LOMMEYDEW, THE NEOPHYTE OP SHILOH,
AND HIS AMOUR.
ON the morning of Mr Winkfield's Jersey excur-
sion, Brunswick determined to devote his leisure
to the discharge of a dutiful visit to his step.
mother, and for that purpose at once repaired to
her home in Summer Lane. It was a fine day,
the air was balmy and the scene delightful there.
Her house was a wooden one, situated in the rear
of a large brick manufactory, with a little yard at
the side and rear.  Hollyhock bushes were grow.
iig therein, and morning-glory vines climbed over
the mansion and over a neatly white-washed hen-
house near by, about which numerous fowls were
stalking, or resting in the sand and shade. An
ironing table with its utensils, removed from the
house on account of the warm weather, was
placed upon the brick pavement. At one of its
ends was a plate of water-melon, handy to which
and reclining upon a wooden bench, was a rather
long colored young gentleman, with his wool
done in pyramidal form on his head, an extreme-
ly peaked nose and a very bright eye. 'He ap-
peared to be dividing his attention between indo-
lently feeling for the pieces of water-melon and
ia smiling artfully upon a stout and comely col-
ored damsel, engaged in the ironing. Brunswick
walked in. The recumbent gentleman sat up
and uttered a salutation, cavalierly acknowledg-
ing which, Brunswick fell to partaking of the
water-melon so largely, that much alarm appeared
on the countenance of the other gentleman.
"Well, and how's Mr. Winkfield ?" asked Mrs.
,hfs-ults
"He's well!V' replied Brunswick sulkily, "and
so is Mr. Toplady, and Mr. Titman, and Misses
Wagbull, and all the folks I know !"
Ah! Miss Wagbull! They live in a fine
louse, Mr. Difficults. Noble merchant and a
num of great attainment," said Mr. Jinks Lom-
minydew, "a man of great attainment !"
Yes," replied Brunswick.
And I understand his daughter is a lady of
superior loveliness and tact," continued Mr. Lon-
medew. 
"She dresses beautiful. The last time I see
her, she had onto her a rich brokid, cut bias, f
You know, with three basque ends at the back, ,
insertion laid on straight, fluted spaces run acrosst, f
aud frilled skirts, full width!" said the step. t
mother, turning to Mr. Lommeydew.   .
Tie divinity student appeared to be fully con- f
versant in such matters, and presently the con- i
Scious glance of the sublime mysteries he shared
with her and the rest of the sex, melted into one t
Of loveBrunswick said nothing, and after av
oinment's silence, made a cheerful effort.  t
"Well, I thought I'd come     around and t
ins how you're all getting on. Hflow's Shiloh,
jinks V
"All 9! whly do you stay away, my dear Diffi-
-uts Why not walk in our paths, so many
iters to guide you with their love and friend-
-hp1                                      f

"I don't think much onto religion conducted
on them principles !" replied Brunswick shortly.
"I am fearful that you care for social piety on
no principles," said Mr. Lommeydew severely, for
the purpose of impressing Mrs. Difficults. "We
are skeered of your morril and ethical condition,
and truly, Mr. Brunswick, let me warn you.
Oh! come and suck in the spirit of truth and
holiness from Shiloh's sacred desk."
"I don't want to do no suckin-in," said Bruns-
wick. " There's'enough humbug and suckin-in
already in that ere church !"
" Ah ! I was once regardless as you," continued
the divinity student, alternately rolling his eyes
from Brunswick to the lady. " I was once deep-
ly atrocious as you. Like you, I did not notice
my double-dyed villainy, my buffoon avarice, my
boot-black profanity, my ethical and morril im-
morality in eating and drinking-"
Here Brunswick interrupted the student by in-
forming him that he had such a cheerful confi-
dence in his own physical powers, he thought he
might be able to pitch him over the hen-house,
and pleasantly offered to do it for the small sum
of twenty mills or two cents, federal currency.
"I meant no offense. I meant no offense,"
said the divinity student somewhat hastily. "And
I disclaim contention at the moment !"
"Look here! I don't want'no words with you !
No words at all!" replied Brunswick snorting.
" I know you well enough, Jinks. I know'd you
ever since you stole Mr. Harper's case of can
oysters, when you was a boy, and cat yourseY
into a bilious fever, and was found out I"
"I pity you, as entirely witless and with lovi
attempts at facetiousness !" replied the divinity
student slightly touched.
Brunswick immediately resumed his handsome
offer at this, and his step-mother concluded that
she had better interfere. After some further
wrangling Brunswick filially consented to a tem-
porary reconciliation for the sake of her feelings
and rose to leave.
"Oh! no. Stay to dinner, Brunswick," said
the good-hearted woman. " I am sorry to see
you so witless and melancholy-like, and I want
you to become cheerful. Do!"
Brunswick remained, occupied himself for
some time in walking about the garden, examin-
ing the hen-house and finally went up-stairs to
enjoy a short slumber before dinner. As he
passed through the parlor, he observed, hanging
there, the much prized coroner's certificate of the
disappearance of his father, which only added
fuel to his desire to avenge that worthy parent.
Instead of sleeping, he looked out of the window
furtively, but to see a little love-passage going on
below between his step-mother and her swain.
The latter was pretending to know how to iron
for her, and there was some little tender scuffling
n the contest for the smoothing-iron. As the
whole moral trouble of Brunswick would have
been obviated by the extermination of the di-
vinity student, and as he felt there was no par-
icular harm in committing murder in inagina-
ionghe now did so upon the obnoxious party in
various ways, such as'by putting poison in water-
meons, by making him read the congressional
eposts, by dosing him with Conway's Consump
ive cure, by inducing him to take 'a walk down
Jacob street or a trip on a Jersey railroad, and
mnally, observing'- a ten pound weigh t in tho

MR. WINKFIELD.                    1 81


82                  MR. WINKFIELD.

corner of his bed-room, among other business
relics of his respected parent, he adjusted it with
nice poiseover the vital part of the student re-
cliningbelow, and speculated upon the pleasing
consequences of permitting it to fall upon him.
An half-hour was to intervene between the
cessation of the ironing and the commencement
of the process of getting dinner by the lady, and
the prospect of the repast moved the divinity
student again from his recumbent position. The
language of the two lovers thus left together
was different from the ordinary speech of unim-
passioned  mortality. They lived in another
world. All nature was propitious. Around the
shaded windows above the bench the morning-
glories twined with the jasmine and the running
rose. The rose was loaded with flowerets, and
the darling morning-glories in sweet accord with
the soft tranquillity of the scene lazily closed
their tender cups over their delicate petals.
Hushed was the scene. The gnats had retired
to their coverts from their late incessant dance
in the sun, and the stalwart chanticleer was re-
clining, in the shade with wings outstretched.
while the loved members of his seraglio nestled
in the sand about him, or ever and anon pecked
softly at various points of their persons. 'Twas
noonday in the heated city 'twas noonday in the
cool retreat! To persons of the lovers' race
'twas better than the twilight hour for the holy
communion of feeling.
"IAh ! Brunswick sleeps !" said the impassion.
ed student, as a gentle noise of one sleeping
was wafted to their ears from above.
"Yes, yes," replied the lady tenderly, and
-sitting down on the bench as she adjusted the lagt
fold of the snowy linen upon the rude but useful
ironing-table.  The student bent his legs be
-neath the bench.
"In dim sluggishness, he sleeps with tranquil
heart. 'Tis nice, and yet his is not such joy aE
ours, dearest !" continued the suitor.
"4No, it an't !" replied the lady.
"Ah ! I knew one from my earliest childhood
amid my infant sports and difficulties of youth
if not really, yet in my visions; and now may i
not be the hope of a glorious manhood that she
that bright apparition, may henceforth be m,
prop and stay ? Amid joy and woe, rain and sun
shine, may it not ever be thug, 0 dearest ?"
He took her unreluctant hand in his, and hi
gaze followed hers, to linger with unutterabi
thought upon the distant hen-house. The ba
ance between the probable cost of being  h
prop and stay and the annual yield from tli
home of the feathered  tribe, with other specie
of the domestic revenue, may have been passing
through her mind,and induced her to have r
plied merely, "1Dearest sweet P"
"Again she evades my oft-repeated question
Great heaven ! does every breath influence her
Does every weakness move ?" said the love
kicking up the gravel in his impatience..
"lHist ! Hist 1" said the lady, as the stalwa
chanticleer cried out a startled alarm at the d
m onstration.
"What ?"1
"The sleeper stirs. He will wake."
"N.Silh    es.  YeadI wretdh
would woo in vain my downy couch,1p 1ould
"r iWhat, saod whretched, so suddenktly 1 Yo

I

my Emerson? No no ! It may not I" replied the
lady, who was apt im these scenes to catch
something of her lover's impassioned manner.
Such is the power of love. "Ah ! I faint. What
meanest ?".
" Pardon, love,,my hasty words. I knew not
what I said, I-"
"10 Emerson I have confidence into me. For
to share your grief I would die ."
The divinity student covered his face convul-
sively with his hands. ,,I
'I can not speak it !" he cried hoarsely.
"Let me divine! This agitation !Speak ."
'Tis well. 'Tis well. Soon called to Jersey
as missionary, I-"
"Don't, don't! You wrench me !" replied the,
lady in her 'alarmed passion. "What! would
you leave me?
"And why not ?" he replied still hoarsely,
"Any thing, every thing. Let destiny fill my
lot!  I willnot survive the loss ."
"1What loss? What have you lost? Any
thing valuable ?" cried the lady in sudden alarm.
" Valu'ble ? Yes'm. Your love! You love
me not. False one, have I suffered such misery
to grow into my heart only to find that I was de-
ceived ! That the woman for whom I could have
chained that heart's blood could not withstand
the frown of an irritated step-son and friends for
my sake! Sink him I" cried he in his passion,
as he made a convulsive leap into the air. The
startled chanticleer fled to the bottom of the
yard. All was soon silent again.  The lover
stood erect, with arms folded on- his breast in
gloomy silence by her side-for one moment,
nis face all worn and haggard, his dress disor-
I dered, paler than the lady, who with" a faint
- smile, -raising herself still more, held out her
hand to him.
l Gracious heaven ! he had tutored himself to
s calmness, but this quite unmanned him.
Springing forward he fell on his knees by her
side, sobbing her name.
,   She bent over him, with tears fast falling on
h bia bowed head. Her fair hanal was on his shoul-
t der, and he threw his arms around her, speech-
, less with great sorrow.
y    About three minutes elapsed.
 "Emerson I" she said at last, gasping, but still
softly. ."It is so decreed, dearest. Be patience,
so be patience. There is no shadow between wn
e now, is there, dearest ?  None, none. No suspi-
1. cioning, no jealousy, no doubt. But love such
is as ours could only eist in heaven. What mat-
ic ters life or death, as long as you know I love
s thee ! And now the repast, the merid'nal re-
g past 1"
e   "Ah !" replied the lover. He looked up at
her eagerly. She seemed a pitying goddess, all
n. tenderness and , benignity; only her mantling
? burning cheek showed her to be a woman of wilL
r, She faltered in answer to his wild, eager lek
A veal cutlet, some buttered squash, and-"
rt   The characteristic full stop, and, above al',
le- the heaving bosom, the melting eye, and the
suffused cheek were too much for the poor guile-
less child of his appetite, as he was. Beaveni
seemed to open on him. His burning kisses fell
d,o      s et Ihands that had rereved him
I hapinss
Nopmesistane
u, She blushed higher, but smiled. His power.

MR. WINKFIELD-                        88

ful arm curled around her. She looked a little
scared, but not much. He kissed.her sweet cheek.
The blush spread to her very forehead at that,
but no resistance. As the winged and rapid
bird, if her feathers be but touched with a speck
of bird-lime, loses all power of flight, so it seem-
ed as if that kiss paralyzed her eel-like and eva-
sive powers. Under it her whole supple frame
seemed to yield as Emerson drew her closer and
closer to him, till she bid her forehead and wet
eyelashes on his shoulder and murmured "How
could I let you be unhappiness ?"
Neither spoke for a while. Each felt for theI
other, and Emerson drank that ecstasy of silent
delirious bliss which comes to great hearts about
half-past eleven in the morning, if the dinner is
at twelve.
The banquet soon waited the descent of .the
gloomy Brunswick. The student said grace with
his fork quivering nervoiflsly in the air. They
ate. After dinner, Brunswick entered into a
game of seven-up with the divinity student, and
having abused him for about half an hour in con-
sequence of the double exasperation, -of the am-
bitious attempt of that worthy to become his
father and of an unsuccessful one of cheating at
the game, he left for the ferry to await his mas-
ter's return from abroad.
 CHAPTER   XXXVII.
MOSES GOES THROUGH ONE FIRE, WHICH PLEASES
HIM TO SUcH AN EXTENT THAT HE IMMEDIATE-
LY ATTENDS ANOTHER. A MEMBER OF THE NEW-
YORK FIRE DEPARTMENT.
SHonTLY after his return from New-Jersey, and
in the course of a morning ramble Moses came
across a glass globe in a bird shop, containing
one large and short-tailed gold fish and three
smaller ones, apparently infants of the first, as
they too seemed gifted with brief latter ends,
and possessed a similar facetious disposition. He
took the globe to his home, and called Bruns-
wick.
"Bruhswick, take these fishes to Miss Wagbull.
I will wait until you return."
"1Yes, sir," said the servant, starting at once.
- "And, Brunswick, you had better see Miss
Wagbull yourself."
"Yes, sir."
"And you 'nayobserve, Brunswick, if she is.
pleased with them." -
"I will sir."
"And Brunswick! Tell her that I thought she
would like them, as-as I really fancied them
myself."
"IYes sir."
"And, wait, Brunswick! On the whole, you
needn't say any thing about it. Merely present
them to her respectfully."
"Very well, sir."
" By the way, Brunswick! you may observe if
she smiles, or if she is-is agitated in any way.'?
"I will, sartain, sir !"
"Brunswick ! one moment.   have confidence
in yo, in thi  t,  -h "
" Oh I in minutest- particulars, sir." i
i"Then you may go," said our hero, apparently

Brunswick returned shortly, and made his re-
port.  "I presented the globe of fry to Miss
Wagbull, sir, in her front-parlor, and they both
said it was a tasteful selection, or similar words."
" Both ? Was there any one else there, Bruns-
wick ?"
"Yes, sir; a young gentleman as had drop.
ped in on a morning call, with a bouquet. She
held it to the big fish to smel of, but with great
care, with great care, sir '"
" What was the gentleman's name, Bruns-
wick ?"g
"Horrit, or Horrid, sir."
Moses said no more, but presently rose and
retiring to the inner room for a few moments,
philosophically threw about his hair-brush and
pin-cusQhion to relieve some irrepressible feelings
which hadnseized him. Toward afternoon, hap.
opening accidentally in the neighborhood of Miss
Waghull's house hie dropped in.
Bessie thanked him heartily for the fishes.
"Flora,-too, has favored me this morning," said
sie. " See, Mr. Winkfield. Is not this a beautiful
camellia?  Mr. Hoyt, who brought it, is very fond
of flowers."
" It certainly is very beautiful!" replied Moses,
inspecting the gorgeous flower.
"See those dear little fishes. Mr. Hoyt says
there has been lately a great difficulty experienced
in cultivating the camellia."
I have never seen one more perfect," continued
Moses, with philosophic calm.
"Yes, Mr. Hoyt said it took him over an hour
to make a selection at Bird's."
"What a tender, subdued tint," continued
Moses, feigning enthusiasm.
"Yes, and Mr. Hoyt says that not one in a
-thousand are able to attain that peculiar color."
S Quite true. It is exceedingly rare. I must
say it is exceedingly rare," continued Moses, with
soe symptoms o backsliding. (" I wish Hoyt
would make his visits here 50o!")
"Mr. Hoyt, you know," said Bgio, is --
"Certainly!" said Moses rather explosively.
"Y ou are quite right in relying upon his taste.
Ofcourse. Mr. Hoyt, Miss Wagbull, is a gentle-
man of culture and refinement-(whom I have a
strong desire to run through with a small-sword!")
There had been tdring the conversation a cer.
tam species of agitation in the young lady's tone.
She did not seem aware that her remarks might
be considered quite ordinary and at this point,
though she continued them, she seemed struggling
with her conscience about what she was doing.
There was a young lady of Boston, with whom
Miss Wagbul had preserved the constancy of
friendship since leaving school, by the interchange
of frequent letters and occasional visits. Of this
young female mentor she was accustomed to seek
for advice upon her wardrobe and other matters
of feminine solicitude. Upon that of her admirers,
she was wont to delicately elicit this advice through
the circumlocution of philosophical and wire-wo-
ven estimates of poetical or historical characters,
whom she conceived to resemble them, with ro-
mantic hypotheses of the influence of these beings
uponher own character under varied circum-
stances, and receiving emendations of the same
by return post. After she became acquainted with
Moses, Aristotle appeared in the letters, who soon
gave place to Demosthenes, and he to the Prine
of Conio, who in turn resigned in favor of Cyriac


84                              'MR. WINKFIELD.
Skinner, and finally George Washington himself verted into a pyrotechnic shop for the approach-
was forced to abdicate in favor of a 'compound ing Fourth of July.
character of her own making, in which the virtues "Fine fellows!" said Moses enthusiastically to
of philosophy, oratory, elegance, and friendship Titman, as they stood wedged together upon the -
were combined with all other imaginable ones. curb-stone. "I understand some of the best citi-
Having asked her friend how she would reconcile, zens are members of fire-companies.  Besides
in her intercourse with such a noble being, the fa- that, these companies are the true nurseries of
miliarity of friendship with a just respect for his the military spirit of the country. The same
dignity of character, .the acknowledged high- qualities necessary upon the field of battle are
priestess of love wrote in reply that she had necessary here. The same organized discipline
better dismiss both the familiarity of friendship and the patient abnegation of the individual in
and the worship of respect from her conduct the patriotic devotion to the good of the whole,
toward him, by making him jealous. Before a the nation or society. The praiseworthy efforts
union can properly take place, it is absolutely of these fine fellows can not be. too much dwelt
necessary, observed she. It purifies and strength- upon."
ens love. It shows the suitor how -lofty, how  Here the pipeman of an engine momentarily
noble a thing his beloved's affection is, how in- turned his stream directly in Moses's face and
dispensable to his peace of mind. It submits his then into Mr. Titman's waistcoat, either by acei-
love to the ordeal of fire, from which it comes dent or with the praiseworthy effort of preventing
out as pure gold, to gladden her future days with their taking fire. This event, and the customary
unalloyed felicity. In the distraction of her tender- ridicule thereof of the surrounding parties, neces-
ness, Bessie relied on authority, as every one else sarily occupied them for a few moments after-
does in distraction. . She now essayed to obey its ward, and Moses's feelings were so aroused by
dictates, and that the effect of her efforts were the remarks of his fellow-citizens thereon, as to
rather heavy upon our hero will be presently cause him to impulsively designate the principal
seen.                                       humorist among them as a rascal. Thereupon
" Alfred is very intelligent, do you not think he some unknown party from behind knocked his
is?" proceeded she.  0        -             hat over his eyes, while a third, viewing the
"Oh ! very," replied Moses fervently.     situation in his own peculiar and professional
"And so congenial! When children, we were light, quietly went to work on his own account to
school-mates together," Continued Bessie. " He pick Mr. Titman's pockets. The aforesaid gentle-
seems like an old, old friend. Oh! ever so old !" man, whose character as a gentleman Moses had
"Very well, I am glad to hear it," replied impulsively impugned, now requested the pleasure,
Moses, in a secret rage against Hoyt, and re- of a personal combat with the latter, and the fire
volviag plans to exterminate him.           being a short one and over, the hosemen,who were
"I do not know how I could bear the depriva- stationed near by, proposed that the engagement
tion of his society. He is so good !" continued should take place at the " carriage-house, 20's,
Bessie, cheerfully,                          where they would see fair."  Moses, no doubt,
"Yes. He is extremely affable," said Moses, would have thus been forced into a deliberate
making another effort at magnanimity.        pugilistic encounter, if his alarmed companion
"I am so glad to see you appreciate him, Mr. had not opportunely descried at a short distance,
Winkfield. You who read character so excellent- taking a fire-coat from a machine, that faithful
ly. It makes me feel that I am truly favored by fireman and valuable friend, Mr. Barnard, and
Providence with his friendship!"         'hastily brought him to the spot. After some
"Without doubt t" exclaimed Moses, clutching further wrangling and an adroit avoidance of a
the arm of the sofa.                         company row, through the efforts of that gentle-
"And by returning it, I can show you I know  man, Moses and Mr. Titman were enabled to leave
how to- appreciate your judgment !" said Bessie, the scene with him.
with cruel malignance.                      - "Those 20 boys, Jim, are a little too groggy
"I thank you. I thank you for the honor," with their runners anyhow," said Mr. Barnard to
replied Moses.                               a man accompanying them, a stunning, volcani-
He rose and staggered, rushed to the hall, cally dressed individual, with a fire-shirt, thunder
seized his hat, and in distraction sought the and lightning buttons and sulphur-colored, hell-
street.                                     fire pantaloons.
He reached his chamber at the hotel, but there  " Ya-as !  They ought to be lammed, and we
he only longed for some excitement to distract his ought to do it for 'em soon," replied Jim, with a
thoughts. The presence of Titman afforded him few expletives. " The time's almost come, and
no relief. While in this restless state the fire- I'd like to spile that bully foreman of their'n."
bells rang. Inviting Titman to follow him, he  "Jinkeyman is a nasty little boy," replied Mr.
again hastened into the street and toward the Barnard.
district announced by the alarm. ' As they turned "I kin do it, the next time I feel a little mun-
into an obscure street some blocks away, an ian- well," continued Jim, with more forcible exple-
mense, shouting mass of people came moving tives applied to the party alluded to. -Here, in
rapidly down it. They avoided the danger of be. apparently forced admiration, he feelingly re-
ing upset, and converted by a very rude process ferred to some personal contest, in which the
into -elly, only by increasing their speed to an latter had been recently engaged, and from which
agonizing degree and keeping ahead of the throng he had come off with the victory and his oppo-
until they reached the scene of the conflagration. nenat's nose in his possession.
-There, after much unpleasant struggling, they oh- " His nose !" exclaimed Moses, at this state
tained an opportunity of witnessing thme energy of ment. " You don't mean to say that-that such
the firemen, in extinguishing thme fire, which had things are-",,
broken out in a Dutch grocery, temporarily con- " What is the matter, young man ." ashc

MR. WINKFIELD-                                     85
Barnard's colleague, for a moment eyeing Mo- your flipper and let them words slide," replied
ses sternly. " He don't fight exactly square, the appeased fireman.
but he's devoted to it. He cherishes a muss   " And now tip us something in the whooping.
more'n any fire-boy I know.".               cough line, Jim," said Mr. Barnard, and pre-
This way of nursing the military spirit of the sently the zealous member of the fire-depart-
country met with Moses's decided disapproval, meant feigned to bee me afflicted with a severe
and he continued: "Do they allow such infamous fit of that noisy disuer, and caused the air to
encounters as the one you refer to, sir, to take resound with such admirable imitations of its
place in the public buildings, the engine-houses spasmodic explosions, intermingled with infantile
of the city ?"                              cries and alarmed exclamations of the imaginary
"Young, man, it was into the back-yard; if mother, that several passers-by looked up at the
that is what you want," replied the volcanic fire- windows of the houses and a doctor stopped his
man in serious displeasure.  "You don't find carriage in professional benevolence.
no fault, do you, with this here event ?"     After Moses and Titman and Barnard had sub-
"The little irregularity referred to, Winkfield," sided in their complimentary expressions *of
said Mr. Barnard, in a smoothing manner, "was pleasure at this exhibition, the latter, in ecstasy,
merely incidental to the pugilistic enthusiasm of whispered to Moses that there wasn't a man in
the parties. It is not always so, you know; and the city, on the stage or off, his equal for doing
as to the fights, how can Americans become it, and that this thing, together with doing a sea-
good fighters without 'em?" 'sick man without a palate, and singing the
"Ah ! yes," said Moses; "viewing the mutila- "Ladies' Revenge," had endeared him tn the
tion merely a5 an accident, or at the worst, as whole company to which he belonged.
an emotional ebullition,-it may be passed over  "By the way, suppose you and Titman come
perhaps."                                   round to the carriage-house with us and see the
Here the accompanying fireman fell into a fellows. They've got the machine home by this
lively demonstration of suddenly increased ir- time."
ritation, swearing violently and  throwing  his  Moses, having no doubt gained a sufficient
coat and himself about in a very loose man- knowledge of the department for the time being,
ner.    ,                                   declined the proposed entertainment - where-
"What's the matter, Jim ?" asked Mr. Barn, upon Mr. Barnard forcibly captured Mr. Titman
ard,'while both Moses And Mr. Titman were lost and compelled his accompaniment to the engine-
in trembling admiration of the extraordinarily house, no doubt with the generous purpose of
florid style of the gentleman's language and his gratifying the taste for scrimmages, and of af-
wild gesticulation.                         fording him an opportunity of displaying the per.
"I don't want no names called," said the irri- sonal prowess, which Mr. Titman's narratives of
tated fireman, " whether again me, or him, or apy his past experience ought certainly to have led
member of the department."                  his friends to believe he possessed, and may havd
"What names ?   Who's been calling names ?" the intelligent Mr. Barnard.
asked Barnard.
" This here young man," said the fireman,
turning to Moses.
"Why, no, sir," objected Moses.   "I beg
pardon, but-"                                          CHAPTER XXXVHL
"Look here, young man, I don't 'want no
jawin' about it. I want you to take back that       THE FoRCE F cL~cUMSTANcEs,
air sentence."                                THE unexpected prudery of Miss De Pompen-
"I certainly will," replied Moses, to keep the kops so perturbed the spirit of Mr. Toplady that
peace. "But, my friend, what sentence do you when the excitement of the novelty had passed
refer to -"                                 away, and nothing but the stern fact was left to
"What sentence do I refer to?  Why, 'that occupy him, that is, after he had slept upon it, he
air about ''motional abolition ' We an't no felt forced to betake himself again to the water-
d--d nigger-stealers, young man, nor more, nig- cure establishment in the country, to which he was
ger-drivers, and we don't have no d-d niggers accustomed at critical periods of feeling to re-
about, except to carry the target."         pair. There he commenced again to drown his
"Olh  pshaw! Jim," explained Mr. Barnard, griefs in copious libations, to wash away his
laughing. "He did not mean that ! You mis- petty annoyances with showers, dips, and sitzes
took him, He meant the boys were sometimes coddling both his soul and body, while wrapt in
too lively, that's all."                   the originality of his solitude and a nalf-dozen
"Very well, he'll have no objection anyhow to wet-sheets.
taking that air sentence back, will he?  Young  The water-cure was situated on a pleasant
man, you don't have no objection to that ?" field in the pleasant town of nampleboro, and
"Hear! hear !" cried Mr. Barnard. "As a had its quota of customary guests. There was
member of no party, and unbiased in my opin- the enthusiastic old gentleman with the doughy
ions upon the momentous question which is un- nose, the same being washed of its thirty years'
expectedly brought before the honorable assem- ruibescence by'the hydropathic treatment to which
hy, I suggest to the distinguished member of he owed "a miraculous restoration to health sir
he opposition, a suitable modification, or at with the ability of climbing the adjacent nmoun-
lst, reconstruction 'of his late able but unfor- tains daily, sir, without fatigue, and bringing
taae remarks .                        .   home an appetite demanding mountains of food."
"Oh ! yes, I freely do so," said Moses, to Then there was his friend, who had been lately
humor the gentleman.                       induced to come, and was just then believing
"You are quite right, young man, and give us water, from its unusual taste, was the very best


86                        MR. WINKFIELD-

wine he had ever tasted.   Then there were
others, suffering from-a reiiction of their enthu-
siasm, and who took a gloomy view of life in
general, and were disposed to believe that the
doctor was an infernal scoundrel and humbug.
There was the German gentleman who had been
in the original establishment of Preissnitz, and
could tell you all about it, and insisted upon doing
it daily. There was a semi-divorced couple who
had been separated from each other a half-dozen
times from "nincompoopability of temper,!' as the
Irish porter of the establishment expressed it,
and who were now endeavoring to live under the
same roof again; the one with rooms in the ex-
tremeiiorth end, and the other considering a
southern exposure highly necessary. There were
several maiden ladies, permanent, residents, and
a Jew who, at the period we speak of, was the
cynosure and hero of the establishment, from
the remarkable effect which the treatment was
having upon   his person.  Ill-treated nature
had taken this first opportunity, upon the re-
moval of twenty-five years of dirt from the ex-
terior of her Israelitish temple, to renovate the
interior also. At the time we speak of, the un-
fortunate Hebrew had three hundred and twenty
boils upon his person, and what little vitality was
left in the unfortunate man was kept there by
his simple hope that several eminent proprietors
of second-hand clothing-stores with whom  he
was acquainted would " write books!"
Mr. Toplady lived rather retired, here as else-
where. He took matutinal and evening bath
and walks, read the papers and books during the
day, and by whist and conversation with the
ladies, managed to fill up the rest of his unoc-
cupied hours. At the other end of the village,
upon a goodly but somewhat' sequestered site;
stood the Unitarian and principal house of wor-
ship, to the rear of which was attached, the rec-
tory. The church tower commanded a fne view,
so one evening after tea, Mr. Toplady strolled
thither, with innocence and meditation joined in
soft assemblage in his mind, opened the church
door and mounted to the belfry, to observe the
prospect. By a coincidence, Mrs. Elwell, semi-
divorced wife, had come there with the same in-
tentions, together with the additional one of be-
ing out of sight and hearing of her incompatible
husband, and Mr. Toplady found her in that lofty
and retired place.
" Ah! quite a steeple-chase I've had, madam, '
said he gallantly. " But I really didn't expect
to find such a belle here. He! he I an agreeable
surprise, indeed V"
"Yes, sir!" replied the lady, recognizing tht
courtesy, and endeavoring to out-do the masterly
wit of the effort. "But though one may hav(
lofty ideas here, Mr. Toplady, I am sure it was no
necessary for you to come here to procure them.'
" With such intoxicating flattery frbm youi
lips, madam, I'm afraid that I should not requir
)the altitude of my present position to get high
he ! he !" ,continued Mr. Toplady promptly, an
being pleased with his own brilliancy, immediately
thought Mrs. Elwell a very charming woman.
" A splendid sunset, Mr. Toplady. Look
Look at that beautiful Magenta cloud on th
right, just above the hill! "
" Yes,
*At summer eve, when heaven's aerial how -
Spans with wie arch the glittering hills below,

Why to yon mountain turn themuing eye,
Whose sun-bright summit glitters in the sky,
Why do those cliffs of shadowy tint appear f
More sweet than all the smiling landscape near?'"
asked Mr. Toplady, in poetical solemnity, though
there were no cliffs and no bow to make the
quotations exactly appropriate and the smiling
landscape was chiefly represented by a man in
an adjacent field milking a cow and grinning ex-
pressively at the prospect of the close of his labors
for the day.
" Those are beautiful lines, Mr.'Toplady," re-
plied the lady. "And I like them very much."
"Thank you," said Mr. Toplady, receivmg the
remark as a personal favor. "Campbell is my
favorite poet. I am now enjoying, with unusual
interest, the Pleasures of Hope."
Here they both occupied themselves with the
sunset, and made the usual patronizing remarks
about it, as though it were the work of quite a
meritorious artist. Then they looked in the east
to see how the brush had been thrown there.
Then their attention was attracted to the man,
milking the cow in the field within view and to
,his occasioned expostulations of "So, ye bitch1"
and "Dod rot ye !" addressed to the restive animal.
And then they were called upon to observe two
horses curveting playfully in a pasture further
on, and Mr. Toplady spieda roost, with a dozen
hens pushing each other and settling upon it,
while the noble chanticleer, seatedin the centre,
crowed another adieu to kind friends for -the
night, or pecked his next neighbors, to reduce
them to a proper state of obedient quiet. At
last, proposing to leave, Mr. Toplady carefully
handed the lady down. To their astonishment,
they found the church-door by which they had
entered closed and locked. In vain did Mr. Top-
lady endeavor to open it, or the remaining one
upon the other side of the vestibule. For at least
twenty minutes, he futilely expended his efforts
in attempting to force back the bolts with his
pen-knife, to unscrew the lock, or to remove its
fastening by violent application of muscular pow-
er. He then entered the body of the church for
the purpose of endeavoring to effect a deliverance
by means of one of the windows.
"Of course I can easily get out in that way,"
said he.
A practical examination, however, revealed the
disagreeable fact, that he was scarcely able, even
by standing upon the pews, to reach the bottom
t of the window, and had he been -able to lift the
e Gothic sash, as there was a dreadfully high base-
ment beneath, he would not have felt like precip-
e itating himself therefrom, without having pre-
y viously made his will, which at that time would
e have taken too much time.
t   "0 dear! how gloomy it is here, Mr. Toplady!
I feel-really afraid. It is so dark !" said 'the
r lady timidly, after this failure.
e    "Good gracious !" said Mr. Toplady, beginning
, to perspire.  "But suppose I accompany you
d back to the cupola, as it is still light there ? It
y will be more agreeable to you."      .
The lady timidly accepted the proposition, but
upon reaching the belfry, was immediately driven
e back with renewed agitation by the bats.
" How stupid of these people ! I suppose soit'
of them have locked the door for the night, with-
out ever thinking there was any one in the bel-
fry !" exclaimed Mr. Toplady, as they agai

I

I

MR, WINKFIELD                                      87
reached the vestibule, after groping their way peared, he arose, and after a short and doubtful
down and making numerous missteps, by which examination of his osseous constitution, proceed-
his shins were severely abraded. Here he ceased ed to resuscitate the semi-insensible lady.
rubbing his leg and taking hold again of the  "I am not hurt-not hurt at all, madam. I
door-handle, faintly shook it. Then he stopped find that the window is out of the question-out of
and looked idiotically at it.               the question altogether; and allow me to observe
" I am-afraid to-to halloo, madam, as I in addition, madam, that if I meet hereafter with
don't know who might be attracted to us. It the infamous architect who planned it and its
might be some thoughtless person who would fellows, I will thrash him within an inch of his
compromise your-your-and my-O gracious ! life, I will, by heaven !"
This is really unfortunate. Besides that, there is "Oh !. I am so glad to hear your voice again
no one going by."                           Mr. Toplady; but what shall we do-what shall
"0 dear! what is that ?" exclaimed the lady we do now ?" said the lady, their disagreeable posi-
in sudden terror, grasping Mr. Toplady's arm tion striking her again with full force.
convulsively. "I thought I saw something move  "I do not know, madam," replied Mr. Toplady
by the staircase. Oh !" very curtly, under the influence of growing irrita-
" Heavens! madam, don't be alarmed. There tion.
is nothing here, I assure you. Compose yourself.  Here the footsteps of some one passing by on
It is only a little disagreeable for the moment. I'll the road was plainly to be heard.
soon effect an exit, by some means, and the moon " Hist ! I hear some one. I'll attract his at-
will make it light presently."              tention. It is the only thing that can be done.
" Oh ! I am so frightened, I shall die !"  I say, my nan !" said the hesitating Toplady in a
"I beg of you don't! And suppose you sit very faint voice.
down in one of the pews, while I-while I-try  His invocation was unheard. The opportunity
the door again. If I don't succeed this time," was lost and for the next half-hour there was a
muttered Mr. Toplady feverishly, "I'l halloo ! or most provoking absence of passers-by, or of any
jump from one of the windows, and care not sounds that would indicate the presence of living
what the consequences be. I will, by heaven"  beings in the neighborhood, though once or twice
He tried the doors again with the same want they imagined they heard through the thick rear
of success. Fatigued with his efforts, he sought wallof the edifice the deadened sounds of persons
a pew with his companion and conversed for a moving in the adjacent rectory.
few moments in gloomy despondency. , Despera-  " Gracious! why didn't I think of it before ?"
tion was stealing upon him. "Madam!" said he exclaimed Mr. Toplady suddenly, and rising en-
solemnly, " I will now proceed to the gallery. thusiastically.  " The private entrance leading
The windows are so constructed that I may be into the parsonage from the church ! There must
able to lower myself therefrom t the silL. I Van be one. Yes, I think I remember it."
thus, perhaps, open one of the sashes. Succeed-  He was correct. .He found its door and it was
ing in this, I will proceed to squeeze myself unlocked too. He opened it. It led into a dirk
through, and then jump from the window on the passage. But as he entered it, the old difficulty
outside. I may, perhaps, be-be injured-possi- suggested itself to his mind in greater force than
bly for life.  But it must be done.- Good-by, ever. Could he accost any one now and in such
madam!"                                     a peculiar manner, without the possibility of
"For heaven's sake - 0   Mr. Toplady! do placing the lady in a very unpleasant light ? No.
not-you will kill yourself and leave me alone in It was his duty still, to endeavor to effect an
this dark place !" said the agitated lady, grasping egress without the aid or observation of any one.
her companion again hysterically.             The pastor of this church wasa transcendental
"Calm yourself, madam. I can not feel that gentleman, whose. high abstractions had led him
I am doing my duty, without at least seeing if I to an inclination to believe in spiritualism. The
can open the-window. It will take but a moment, recent death of a beloved wife had perhaps con-
and I assure you, my dear madam, I will not firmed him in that belief, and he endeavored to
jump out without further permission from you." seek for his bereavement, through its means, some
With this considerate promise, he felt his way consoling insight into futurity.
to the gallery, and reaching the aperture of one of  That very evening, -seated'in his study, he huad
the windows, which ran through the gallery floor, been secretly working up his afflicted thoughts
observed' that it was happily wide enough to by means of the centre-table ind semi-darkn ess
admit the insertion of his person. He cautiously to the hallucination of inducing the departed
lowered himself therein, but unexpectedly found spirit to appear, not in knocks alone, but visibly
that the slanting sill afforded no footing whatever. to his frenzied eyesight.
Ile held on by tle main strength of his arms for  ".Appear !" conjured he in the hushed whisper
two exhausting minutes, and then with the last of infatuated awe, and staring idiotically toward
frantic appeal for aid to his fragile and terrified the church-door of the room. A form appeared
companion, slid through with lightning-like rapid. at the door. It was Mr. Toplady's. The insane
ity, into the body of the church below. He struck priest started convulsively forward.
his chin violently against the gallery floor as he "As thou hast changed thy sex, change mine I"
descended, and falling upon the seat of a pew be- cried he in his imbecility.
neath, was precipitated head foremost against its The form disappeared; the wavering Toplady
door. For a few moments all earthly sights and had fled back to the church upon being dis-
sounds were shut out from his senses, and he so- covered. The clergyman recovered his wits.
renely devoted his spirit to the heavenly study " Thieves," cried he, and he immediately locked
of the numberless stars which appeared to him the door and gave the alarm to his household.
during the period in the glorious imaginary firm- " We are discovered They'll be here pres-
amnt. When these splendid orbs had disap- ently !" said Mr. Toplady convulsively to the lady


MR. WINKFIELD.

whom   he had reached.    "Secrete yourself !
Let us secrete ourselves -in the belfry, and per-
haps they will not find us. 0 dear, it is too late
to attempt to confront any one now !"
Mr. Toplady was quite correct. In a moment
or so, the clergyman with a light, his man with a
pitch-fork, and his two -servant girls with fire-
shovel and/ tongs, came rapidly into the church.
"The sermons, goblets and Bible are safe!
They've escaped, but without their booty," said
the clergyman hastily examining the, pulpit.
The man ran to the front-door, and found it as
he had left it, locked.
"They are somewheres here now, by golly !"
said he. "They must have come in here and hid
till I locked it, and they haven't got out. The
door's jest as I left it !" '
"Ring the bell 1 Ring the bell then, Orrin !"
cried the clergyman. "We must have aid I"
The bell pealed out upon the 'air, and the
neighbors obeyed its summons, including many
members of the principal fire-company of the vil-
lage with axes, an old gentleman and his wife
carrying a ladder, and the husband of the unfor-
tunate lady in the church, with twenty-three inva-
lids from the water-cure, bearing the leathern
'buckets of that institution.
"Where is it ?" and "What is it?" were the
various cries as the crowd tore into the church.
The clergyman at once dissipated the prevailing
impression, and amid increased excitement, a
special search was instituted. The lady was ar-
rested behind the belfry door in the gallery, and
led below, but Mr. Toplady was gone. To her
excited lord and the astonished crowd, she at
once endeavored to explain her extraordinary po-
sition by tremblingly recounting the facts, with
her recent companion's share thereof left out.
In the midst of this recital, and while the clergy-
man was again ecstatically thrilling his being by
reconciling the apparition he had seen with the
belief in a supernatural transformation of his
wife's spirit, a crash in the gallery was heard.
In less than two minutes, Mr. Toplady was igno-
miniously brought a captive to the vestibule by
the clerical serving-man and two shop-keepers.
From the belfry-tower, through mysterious and
unfinished regions, he had miraculously crawled
into the organ loft, and upon the top of'its noble
instrument. There he had been disturbed by a
sense of suffocation and-by-living things, An-
noyed with two spiders in his left ear, he had at-
tempted to change his position, and broken into
the body of the organ. At his appearance the
ill-balanced Mr. Elwell charged hostilely forward,
but was restrained by his fellow-invalids.
" Let me at him! I'll have his heart! I
want his liver and tripe ! Let me go !" cried he
in his rage.
The lady went into hysterics, and Mr. Toplady
into a wild protestation of his own innocence.
His hurried attempts at explanation were of no
use now. To quiet the frenzy of his antagonist,
he was finally hustled from the scene through the
rectory, while the husband was forcibly prevent-
ed from following him. He was secreted by
friends in an unknown place foi the night, and
the next morning at early dawn left the village
on a cattle-train.
The explanations which the lady afterward
made partially allayed tihe gossiping excitement
which existed in the neighborhood, but failed,

perhaps fortunately for her, to convince her sus-
picious husband, and a final and permanent sepa.
ration shortly took place between them. The
only party who suffered to any degree from the
event, was Mr. Toplady, and he, perhaps, more in
feeling than reputation, for such an one as he ob-
tained is exceedingly popular nowadays.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
MOSES CATCHES THE MANNERS LIVING AS THEY
RISE.
MosEs plunged in society, With Mr. Titman
he visited Mrs. Jones D'Aubyn, wife of John
Jones Dobbin, wholesale dealer in shivers, on a
lovely reception-day. They found her gilded sa-
loon crowded with the beau monde.
"How amiable of you!" immediately exclaim-
ed Miss D'Aubyn, a young lady recently finished
by the celebrated Madame Des Minauderies, ad-
dressing Moses, as he and Titman bowed. "C'est
votre ami, c'est le mien / A! /quelle surprise!"
"Mr. Titman esteems it a high honor, Miss
D'Aubyn," replied Moses, " to be presented to
you."
" Al! quelle reconnaissance nous vous devons /"
" Wee /" said Mr. Titan, as Moses left to pay
his respects to Mrs. D'Aubyn.
"And Jiow much Mr. Titman resemble au
Comte Phoolanass   C'est etonnant!/ Est-ce que
ivous l'avez jamais vu, Umplishoo Titmong ?"
P" Wee-/" said Mr. Titman.
" Vraiment, et vous savez combien vous ees 1"4
meme ?"
" Wee," said Mr. Titman.
" Votre ami in'a dit, que vous m'avez vu a la
promenade en carosse.  Mais dit moi    OC'est
vrai, n'est ce pas, gue vous etesfiatteur et dejafati.
gud de moi?"
" Wee I" said Mr. Titman.
"Eh bien, j'ai l'honneur de vous souhaiter le
bonjour I" replied the young lady, at once majes-
tically rising and leaving Mr. Titman to specu-
late upon the cause 6f her abrupt departure.
He presently paid his attention to a lady visi.
tor near by.
" I think I met you in Rome," said she to
him graciously.*
" Oy!no. I have never been there!"
" Ahi I remember it was on the Rhine 1" con-
tinued she, smiling.
"No, I have never been abroad, madam !"
"Will you have the kindness to excuse me
from farther conversation, sir ?"
"Certainly !" replied Mr. Titman, in some as-
tonishment at observing her leaving him too.
He immediately entered into conversation with
another. "Do you belong to the Union or New-
York Club, Mr. Titman ?" asked she.
"To neither, madam. I belong to no club,"
replied Titman.
"Sir, did I hear correctly ?"
" Oh ! yes, ma'am."
"Excuse me,     friend wishes to speak with
me upon the ot r side of the room. Good-
morning, sir !"1
Hie presently joined another, after the manner
of the other beauxe circulating about the room.
"I congratulate' you upon your coming into

MR. WINKFIELD.

88

your property, sir,0 said this lady, who was the
anxious mother of three unmarried daughters.
"I hear that you inherit a large estateI"
" Oh! no. The rumor, if there possibly can be
one about me, is quite incorrect," replied the
modest Titman.
"Then you are not in possession of a large
estate ?" asked the anxious mother, who had in-
vented this rapid method of finding out where
large estates lay.
"1I may say not, madam."
"Then you will excuse me from asking you
if my conversation does not seem disagreeable
to you, for I know it really must be, and I will
not trouble you longer."
The unsuccessful Titman immediately essayed
ic another quarter to start a conversation.
" HaI ha! ha! ha l" said the vivacious belle,
whom he saluted.
" Ha! ha! ha! ha!" replied he.
" Ha ! ha! ha !" continued she affably.
"Ha! ha! ha " responded he with increased
vigor.
" Ha ! ha !" ejaculated she jocosely.
" Ha ! ha!" acknowledged he gracefully.
" Ha! a-hum V" concluded she. "I must now
leave you."
" Thank you!" murmured he sotto voce, and
thereupon he rather hastily sought Moses, who
was momentarily engaged with a Mr. St. Beauty,
a peculiar exotic in the New-York parterre of
fashion.
" I say, Moses," said he, in rather disrespect-
ful perplexity, "that old woman over there is
disgusted because I don't belong toa club l"
"Eccentrictties of the day, monsieur, You
must humor them; only way to get along. You
should join a club. I am on a good footing at
four. Regularly club-footed, ha, ha !" interposed
the accomplished exotic, displaying a remarkable
knowledge of the English, even to its capacity
for wit. "Like cooking, institution of my coun-
try, sir. Won't do to be American here, mon-
sieur, even to your boots. I brought a case
with me from Paris; knew I couldn't stir a step
in society without 'em! "
This gentleman, Hippolyte Isador Georges de
St. Beauty by name, whom Moses had frequently
met before in the mansions of polite society, pro-
fessed to be of noble French extraction, but of
an exiled family, naturalized to the English soil.
From his conversation it was well known in so-
ciety that this anglicized Gaul was in some way
attached to the secret service of the Foreign Of-
fice in London, although he had frequently hint-
ed that his real object was the restoration of the
Bourbons to the throne of his native land., Mr.
Titman was at once inspired with his good sense
and liveliness, and when the three presently
joined a charming group of ladies, successfully
emulated the vivacious.diplomat's ease and con-
sciousness of popularity.
The conversation which ensued with these fair
beings we hardly know to what to compare. The
subjects which they seemed most fondly to dwell
upon were certainly very proper ones, and such
as need a thorough handling in society at the
present day-novels, four-in-hand, preachers,
dances, the opera, the theatre, paintings, frame-
making, busts, and embroidery. And besIdes, ma-
ny of them, even if the fair beings did not know
much about them, were judiciously chosen, for

89

they showed what dancers, singers, painters, ac-
tresses, varnishers, engravers, and embroiderers
the coterie was composed of. Even upon areli-
tecture, Mr. Titman had an opportunity of burst-
ing forth in safety, and his quotation of the clo-
quent Knoblesdorff's exordium about stereobatic
caryatids, tryglyphs, mutules and antifixe was
received with a flattering appreciation. To re-
produce the various remarks elicited from these
young ladies would be impossible, for they were
like a compound of essences, so volatile in their
nature and so exquisitely blended that they escape
upon the first attempt to analyze them. Like
silvery soap-suds which even while we gaze on
them shift their hues and forms, dissolving into
air and light and rainbow showers. Like the
May mornings, flush with opening flowers and
roseate dews and "charm of earliest birds," en-
deavoring to catch the unsuspecting worm. Like
the mountain streamlet, ever leaping and spark-
ling in the sunshine, or rather like the very sun-
shine itself, for so the genial glare of fashion
touched into conspicuous originality even the
vacant atmosphere it shone upon. There was
here no mischievous use of the faculties. That
of wit, the perilous possession of which subjects
woman to the loss of that sweetness of disposi-
tion, that delicacy of sentiment which is her ap-
propriate grace, and without which every other
quality loses its charm, it was quite evident had
been very properly suppressed by astute school-
teachers in the training of these young ladies.
And if they displayed their judgment only upon
frivolous subjects, it was certainly very fortu-
nate, for with the ambitious disposition fostered
by their education it might be decidedly danger-
ous in more momentous matters. If their mem-
ory was properly attuned to remember the faults
of others and forget their own, is not this an
enviable state to attain ? And if their imagina-
tion was just brilliant enough to enable them to
appreciate. the sensation novels of the day and
to surround themselves with a halo of import-
ance, could it be deemed poor or undirected ?
Every body knows and feels that there must
be some dominant vice, some ruling weakness
prevailing in every human heart-and is not that
of vanity, of a fondness for admiration, the most
harmless of all ? Is it not ineradicable from the
human breast? In the most primitive forms of
society is not fondness for admiration just as
strong as in the most civilized and refined? The
savage belle is tickled with the beads and bits
of glass around her neck and the rings in her
nose, and the bosom of the civilized one natur-
ally swells with .a conscious thrill as she ob-
serves that the "adornment of her person is a
mark of envy. And if it is thus ineradicable,
and if it is one of the most powerful incentives
to application and study, the teachers of the pres-
ent day have certainly been right in making it
the foundation of their system of education.
And if the external accomplishments which they
aim at are the most rapid and visible im acquire-
ment, they have certainly been sensible in espe-
cially directing their efforts to those.
And we have no doubt Moses felt so. To be
sure, he may have expected in the great prog-
ress which civiization has made sice the world
commenced, that woman should begin to wishl
to be admired for something else besides her ex-.
ternal accomplishments, her paraphernalia, and


90                               MR. WIN]
her knowledge of the forms and ceremonials of
society. He may have hardly wished to suppose
that the very persons who feel themselves called
upon, and indeed are generally considered as
representing the elegance and refinement of a
community, should be unaware of what real re-
finement consists. He may have preferred to see
those delicate young creatures, so lovely in per-
son and engaging in manners, instead of sacri-
ficing their hearts and minds to the sophisticat-
ed, costly and vapid pleasures of fashion, adorn-
ing the endearing situations of domestic life,
multiplying its comforts by fulfilling its-duties,
and in the exercise of every womanly virtue, an-
imating retirement, and embellishing the charm-
ing scenes of family delight. But if there was
any thing cruel and inhuman in this~ system of
education it could not be laid to the fashionable
teachers of the day. Their humanity as well as
their famed thoroughness might be seen in the
charming naisveti of these young ladies, by which
they appeared wholly unaware they were not in
woman's true sphere; in the innocent uncon-
sciousness that vulgarity itself may be clothed
in external refinement, in the happy infatuation
that men of sense are accustomed to look for
their home companions in the resorts of vanity.
We have therefore every reason to believe that
Moses walked away quite satisfied with what he
had seen and heard. Mr. St. Beauty was also
eminently sensible in his criticisms thereon.
"They are very original, very original, air.-
Totally different from European society.  The
ladies here display more genius. They somehow
succeed in being admired for their accomplish-
ments, without having any."
"Yes, they do not need even external ac-
quirements to render them charming !" replied
Moses chivalrously.
"Very true, very true. Let me see-do you
dine at Delmonico's ?" continued the diplomat
carelessly.
- " At the Evercroft," replied Moses. "I was
about proceeding there for that purpose, and-.."'
"Certainly. With pleasure," said the eccen-
tric diplomat promptly. "Yes, woman is our
great support, sir. -She at once charms us, sus-
tains us, ad smooths our-"
Here the lively attce h6 manifested a sudden
desire to bolt across the street, which he man-
aged, however, to repress, as one of the beings
upon whom he had commenced his gallant en-
comium, namely, a female with a basket upon
her arm, rather abruptly appeared before him
and addressed him.
"I want you-to pay my bill. I've waited long
enough for it " said she rather peremptorily.
" My good woman, you---"
"You needn't good-woman me. I've watched
for you, and caught you at last," continued she,
raising her voice. "I've done his washing for
the last six months and haven't got a cent for it
yet," said she, by way of explanation, at the ev-
dent astonishment of the accompanying gentle-
men.
l1Very true. She is my washerwoman, but
she is a little touched here," hastily whispered
the diplomat to Moses and placing his handy sig-
nificantly upon his forehead. "Insane,,sir{ in-
sane ! I keep her out of charity. Aheifrisacre,
my good woman, you--"
"I want my 'bill settled, I tell you, and, I'll

I'

FIELD.

have it now I" reiterated the woman rather
fiercely.
" Blast it, sacre, she'll create a scene. I must
humor her," continued the diplomat to Moses.
" My good woman, one moment. I hereby call
upon these gentlemen to take notice that I for-
mally adopt you as my daughter, and-"
" I want my bill I" cried the woman with more
force than ever.       I
"And-and I have already made my will in
your favor, my good woman, sacreifenmme, and
here are two dollars on account, and-Mr. Wink,
field, you haven't a couple of dollars about you,
have you ?" asked Mr. St. Beauty, feeling hur-
riedly in his pockets, in pursuance of his hu-
mane purpose of humoring the woman's singu-
lar aberration. "Left all my small change at
home. Foutre, nomndijew ,,
" Certainly," said the affable Moses.
The woman received the two dollars. Mr. St.
Beauty further solemnly agreed to meet her at
her lodgings with the rest- of the bill at ten
o'clock precisely on the following morning, and
still indulging her partially appeased hallucina-
tion with indistinct mutters, the unhappy lunatic
walked away, leaving Mr. Winkfield and Mr. Tit-
man deeply excited with compassion for her un-
fortunate condition.
CHAPTER XL.
THE FoURTH OF JULY.
THE Fourth of July Moses felt, in common
with his fellow-citizens, was a day especially
worthy of their commemoration, though, perhaps,
as an impartial philosopher, he would have said
that the 12th of October, 1492, ought to have a
share of the honor. It naturally follows that if
there had not been.a discovery of America, there
would not have been any American colonies, and
if there had been no American colonies, there
would not have been any Declaration of Indepen-
dence. However, it is to be presumed, that on
the morning of the anniversary he rose, infected
with the general enthusiasm and ready to make
the day an occasion for patriotic feats and expres-
sions of national gratitude. Like a patriot of "76,
he scorned further slumber, especially as he had
been aroused therefrom before light by the noise
of explosions--principally by boys who had lain
awake for three nights previous speculating upon
how early they should rise out the important day
-and as at early dawn the incessant sounds of
drums, and the tramping of horses, together with
a long altercation, which took place directly
under his window, rendered any further attempt
at sleep entirely useless. He threw open his
blinds, and the fresh morning breeze wooed his
locks. Performing his ablutions and clothing
himself, he then awaited with a pleasant perusal
of the glorious constitution of the United States,
the hour of breakfast. When that was finished,
he sallied out in company with Mr. Titman to
witness the military spectacle upon the Washing-
ton Parade. After dodging runaway horses -and
passing over frightful mines, which were explod-
ing all along the route, enveloping them in smoke
and causing Mr. Titman to make numerous con-
vulsive leaps into the air, they reached that de-

I

MR. WIN
lightful park in safety. It was filled with files
of soldiers at ease, and with spectators of all ages
and both sexes, pushing and squeezing each other
in trying to become so.
This is delightful. A very good spot to see
the spectacle," said Moses, after they had with
some difficulty selected a position on the principal
avenue. "Only I don't like the way in which
that boy near us is playing with his pistol. He
will certainly injure himself." Simultaneously
with these words the pistol went off and our hero
received a very heavy wad and some powder
therefrom ia the side of hie head.
"Are you hurt ?" asked Titman in alarm.
"Oh! no, not at all. But where is that reck-
less little rascal?"
" Oh! he has gone off, too," replied Titman.
"Do you think he did it purposely ?" asked
Moses, rubbing his temple.
"I don't know," replied Titman.
Well, if he did it purposely, I think I should
follow him and thrash him-I think I should,
indeed. Ah! there is Mr. Wagybull under that
tree."
"Yes; and there's Barnard in the military,"
added Titman.   See Company B, Seventh Regi-
meit"1
While they were making efforts at recognition
by these friends, Mr. Titman jumped forward in a
lively manner. His position interfering with the
view of a party behind him, the latter had
promptly stuck a pin into his leg to alter it.
" He-stuck a pin into me!" said Titman. "I
saw him!"
" What do you mean by that ?" said Moses to
the man angrily. A large crowd immediately
.Surrounded them.
" I didn't !" said the man.
"Do you deny the outrage ?" said Moses in a
loud voice. "My friend saw you!"
.1I can't help that. I didn't stick a pin into
him. It was a needle, boys !" said the man with'
a grin to the crowd.
At this information the latter laughed quite
heartily, and a man with a bulldog and a breath
fragrant with plantation-bitters, shoved against
Moses in his ecstasy, and attempted to grind him
against a tree. Our hero would bave undoubt-
edly undertaken, in spite of circumstances, to
avenge these gross aggravations upon the part of
his fellow-citizens, if a masked battery had not here
been let off near them with such dreadful power,
that even the general turned- pale, although all
his campaigns had been made on this field. The
attention of the crowd was turned to the military,
the review of which was now to take place. The
regiments formed into a more perfect line on the
avenue, while the general and his staff arranged
their hair, and made other preparations for gal-
lantly riding down before it. Presently the bands
struck up "Hail to the Chief," and the general
commenced to move. The crowd commenced a
parallel movement, and, in the pressure, Moses,
Mr. Titman, and Mr. Wagbull were shoved later-
aity past the policemen and sentries. Unable to
penetrate the human wall on either side and agi-
tated by the threat of the guard, they promptly
joined the staff of the commanding officer, and
walked therein, three abreast, down the entire
line. Though they were thus obliged to forego
the intended gratification of witnessing the spec-
tacle, they were enlivened with perhaps more ex-

[KFIELD.                                 91
hilarating emotions; for under the impression that
they were distinguished personages from a foreign
nation, the crowd at all points greeted themi with
huge cries of extollation, and after they had ex-
tricated themselves at the end of the avenue, they
were followed for many moments by a branch
mob of considerable dimensions, contending with
enthusiastic blows and vociferation, for the honor
of shaking hands with them.   As they were
hastily leaving the park, perhaps from a fear of a
repetition of this unexpected ovation, they fell in
with Mr. Lampson, the historal scholar of the
Archnological Society, with two little boys, neatly
collared.
"These are my sons, Thomas and Joseph, Mr.
Winkfield," said he proudly.
Papa's going to take us up to Fourteenth
street now, to see the soldiers go by, and Tom
and I have got five cents to spend I" said the
youngest impressively.
"You are a good little boy, and so is Toni,"
said Moses, feeling in his pocket, in which he
mysteriously discovered a stale sandwich and
several pieces of orange-peel.
Here the worthy author of the forthcoming
sensation on Simkinson launched forth into chap-
ter twenty-seven of that work, beingm a minute
expatiation upon the influence which that arch
conspirator caine near exercising upon the world-
renowned piece of history commemorated by the
day, and affected thereby not to take notice of
Moses's benignant addition to the boys' five cents.
During this learned exposition, the infants entered
into a little contest as to the disposition of the
unexpected fortune they had come into.
"Tom, let's buy a bunch of fire crackers, and
some peanut candy!" said the younger.
" No, Josie1" replied the other gravely. "We
must buy something for mamma.- The gentleman
expects us."
".But-ean't we have the fire-crackers1" said
Josie disapp-i.tedly. "I want some so much,
and so do you, Tommy, don't you ?"
Perhaps we may-no, there's just enough to
buy her a pair of gloves, don't you see, Josic ?"
said Tom, making a great effort to appear serene.
I'll buy one, and you buy the other!"
Good! Crikey, Tommie, won't mamma laugh,
when she finds 'em under her plate? We'll put 'em
under her plate, and it will be such fun!" said
Josie, enthused with the new idea, and thereupon
they both indulged in youthful gyrations at the
thought.
What affection! I see you bring up these
little fellows rightly, Mr. Lampson," exclaimed
Moses, who had been voluntarily paying more
attention to them than to the worthy scholar.
"You teach them frugality and the glorious habit
of self-denial."
. "Yes," replied the scholar rather pompously.
"I hold, sir, that they will thank nie for these
habits of economy, especially when they grow
up and come into possession of their property, sir."
"But you will allow me, thing once, to break
through your discipline ?" said Moses.
" Certainly. Coming from you it will be qimte
correct," replied the scholar affably. Whereupon
Moses added another half-dollar for the fire-
crackers, aiid after responding to the wvorthy
scholar's renewed proffer of the hospitality of
Westchester county, left the party to proceed
with their frugal enjoyment of the day.


MR. WINKFIELD.

As Mr. Wagbull here suggested to our hero
and Mr. Titman, whether as a piece of republican
satire or otherwise, that they might perhaps de-
rive new and valuable ideas of the political inter-
ests of the country, in attending a civic celebra-
tion of the day by the Tammany Young Men's
Democratic Association at the Cooper Institute,
they proceeded to that place.- The regular chair-
man of the association being hopelessly drunk,
Judge Pootoops had been extemporaneously
called upon to preside, and was already in the
chair, nursing his grandeur, and with a manifest
determination upon his countenance to sustain
the party in this impressive hour to the best of
his abilities. Moses was in time to hear his in-
troductory remarks, which he applauded with
friendly vociferation, though he would not exactly
reicho the sentiments thereof, as the justice en-
deavored to show that if all the patriots of the
Revolution were not democrats, at least all the
republicans of the present day were tories, The
Declaration of Independence was then read. that
is, our friends supposed it was that interesting
document, though it might have been a short
history of Jack the Giant-killer, or Dr. Brandreth's
advertisement, for all the efforts to make him-
self heard of the consumptive gentleman wht was
intrusted with the performance. The great point
of the day was now reached, the oration. A cel-
ebrated and rotund statesman from Washington
had been engaged, who proceeded at once to dis-
play his "matchless eloquence, his profound lore,
and the unconquerable love of his country, for
which his patriotic youth, his congressional ex-
perience of thirty years, his diplomatic services
abroad of twenty years more, and the general
studious occupations of the closet for a half a
century, (making in all one hundred and twenty
years,) so eminently possessed him of." It cer-
tainly was a great effort, or, at least, would have
been, if he had not been short-winded and incor-
rigibly given to mixing his metaphors.  He
"grasped with his eyo the events of the Revolu-
tion, and drank in with heavenly rapture the
broad platform of its principles. The proud eagle
of liberty laughed to scorn the despots of the old
world, sifted the chaff of selfishness from the'
wheat of patriotism in the hearts of our ancestors,
and with one stern flap of his wings purging
them of discord, produced the Declaration of In-
dependence. On the volcano's brink, the patriots
made hay as the sun of opportunity shone, and
boldly seizing the bull by the horns, crammed
the unpalatable morsel down the throats of the
aghast tyrants. In the ma5lstrom of the conflict,
they left no stone unturned, and strained every
nerve in hot water, to eat the golden fruit of lib-
erty," etc., etc. During this rhetorical confusion,
Judge Pootoops had slipped out to refresh his
presiding energy at a neighboring bar-room, and
in his return, encountered Moses and party,
"Fine oration, sir," said he to our hero.
"Celebrated man. It was a great stroke for the'
party in securing him. It .will have an effect
upon the coming election. We give him a dinner
after the meeting."
"Ah! it is a pleasant thing to see the country
grateful to one of its great men for his long ser-
vices," replied Moses.
"Yes," continued the judge. "Yes; we sell
the tickets and will have money enough over to
buy a hundred votes l"

"To buy a hundred votes!" repeated Moses,
in some confusion.
- "Yes, sir. He is a great card, and truly a
valuable statesman. His efforts have been un-
tiring in adjusting the unhappy sectional differ-
ences of our country, sir."
"And he is justly honored for that !" said
Moses warmly.
" He was paid five thousand dollars by the
South for one speech alone, sir, on the Kansas
question," continued the judge impressively.
"Ah !" ejaculated Moses, waning somewhat in
his enthusiasm, and turning his attention to the
assemblage. "You have a fine audience here,
judge."
" All democrats and members of. the club.
We are the association, sir. The other club is
nowhere-mere faction, sir. They threatened
to turn out and interrupt the proceedings, but
they haven't dared to show their heads. They
claim to be the regular Young Men's Association,
and are mad with despair and envy at our influ-
ence in the party, sir. Most singular thing, I
haven't seen one of 'em to-day," continued the
judge, revealing a state of affairs within the
party, which certainly called for the pacificating
ability of the orator of the day. " Splendid
thing, sir, the club principle; it consolidates the
voting interest, sir, and directs it upon the right
men."
"Very true, very true, Mr. Justice," inter-
posed Mr. Wagbull warmly. "It is the only true
way of securing the blessings of popular suffrage,
sir, of enlarging the boundaries of human civili-
zation to comprehend the liberal views and en-
lghtened policy of one of the most remarkable in-
stances of liberty and enlightenment, which as a
policy of-I may say-under the circumstances-
which-"
" Certainly," said Judge Pootoops, staring at,
the speaker.
"I beg pardon, Judge Pootoops, this is Mr.
Wagbull, a gentleman who takes great interest
in the political affairs of the city and exercises no
small influence, I believe, therein,'Z said Moses.
" Wagbull!   I never heard of him  before.
Not a republican, I hope. But excuse me, gen-
tlemen, I must leave you. You will stay, of
course, and join in the procession. We move
down to the Seminole House in Canal street,
where we dine. By the way, here are three
tickets to the banquet for you and your friends,",
whispered the judge to Moses in a burst of gen-
erosity. "Be on hand, and I'll see you get good
places." -
. Delighted with this friendship on the part of
the judge, and with the prospect of hearing the
speeches of the entertainment, Moses and Mr.
Titman prevailed upon Mr. Wagbull to accept of
one of the tickets, and they remained until the con-
clusion of the exercises in the hall, which shortly
took place.  The association defiled into the
street with the judge at its head. The edge of the
procession was much taken off at the commence-
ment by the premature marching off of the band,
which reached the end of the block before it was
apprised of its mistake. Though Judge Pootoops
and the entire procession were obliged to run for
some time in a very undignified manner~ to over-
take it, they nevertheless ultimately recovered
their ceremonious bearing, and in due grandeur
the association reached the place of banqueting,

92

93

to which Moses and his friends speedily followed.
The procession halted upon the pavement for a
moment and then proceeded up the staircase.
But it had but partially mounted the same, when
a rumor ran down it and into the street which
seemed to strike the entire 'association with
ghastly and sickening feelings. Many members
trembled, and for support sought the walls of
the building; others convulsively threw up their
arms in the air; others clutched their hair, while
the majority pressed madly and recklessly up-
stairs and into the banqueting-hall.
"I can't help that, sar, it iseat !" said the ne-
gro, caterer and proprietor of the hall, in agitated
converse with Judge rootoops. "I-can't help
who paid me for it. I got up the dinner all reg-
lar, and the association has been here and eat it!
Dat's all I knows about it 1"
"But we are the association ! Don't you see
us ?" shrieked the judge in the agony of doubt
and despair, "and we have come to cat the din-
ner you were paid to prepare for us !"
" It isn't going' on morc'n half an hour since
the Young Men's Dimmicrat 'Siety was here, and
they cat every thin' up in no time and then left
right off, every one of 'em !" said the colored
ian determinedly.
The unusual quiet, the mysterious non-appear-
ance of the opposing faction in the presence of
the association, to which the judge had referred
at the Institute, was now only too well explained!
By an adroit and consummate plan of vengeance,
played upon the innocent ignorance of the colored
men who had gotten up the dinner, the enemy
had stolen into the camp, while the association
was placidly listening to the eloquence of the
Washington statesman, and quietly eaten up their
proposed dinner !
"How was I for to come for to go to tell ?
They came all regular in a procession, and had a
small banner !" replied the colored caterer, en.
deavoring to defend himself' against-the the out-
cries and threatening gesticulations of the mad
crowd which surrounded him.
The unhappy members stared at the empty
plates and at each other in petrifaction.
"We's all tought it was a 'singler Fourth of
July feed, sar," continued the caterer, beginning
to be converted to the new theory of affairs.
" They was not over twenty minutes about it, sar.
There wasn't no toasts, no sayin' nothin' at all.
They was kept silent by the head-man and seein'
who should eat the fastest, and then they all
suddently rushed out of the room and left."
It would be in vain to attempt to describe the
scenes which followed this astounding discovery.
Blame was cast indiscriminately by the outraged
members upon the negroes, Judge Pootoops, and
each other, and under the influence of maddened
disappointment, several animal-like fights en--
sued. The negroes were compelled to fly for
safety from the disordered scene.  Such mem.
bers as were unable to postpone appeasing the
cravings of hunger, dispersed to seek luncheons,
arduous spirits, and consolation, in neighboring
pot-houses, and although Judge Pootoops exerted
his utmost to keep the association still intact and
restore it to order, by intimating that prompt
efforts to replace'the banquet might possibly be
snccessfnl by evening, the dastardly trick was
only too successful. The organization of the as-
semblage was irrecoverably broken up for the

I

MR. WINKFIELD.

day. Many of the dispersed members returned
from their private excursions, but only-to hang
in knots for the remainder of the day around the
scene of disaster, and converse upon the ab-
sorbing subject, and the majority broke up into
bands, which might be met all over the city
howling for vengeance, and hunting for the hid-
den enemies until a late hour of the night.
Moses and his friends betook themselves to the
Evercroft to dine, and satisfied with the day's
experience, -he forewent the fireworks and went
early to bed.
CHAPTER XLI.
MOSES AND FRIENDS SET OUT FOR A WATERING-
PLACE.
IT has been said that there is one word in the
vocabulary, more bitter, more direful in its import
than all the rest. A distinguished writer has
recommended to her readers, if poverty, if dis-
grace, if bodily pain, even if slighted love be
their unhappy fate, to kneel and bless heaven,
for its beneficent influence, so long as they are
not tortured with the anguish   of-remorse.
Miss Wagbull, for a whole day subsequent to her
premeditated and abetted cruelty to Moses,
suffered its terrible stings. In vain did she seek
to allay its power over her distracted thoughts,
in extorting from her maid, within the secret
recesses of her boudoir, many compliments for
her innocent victim. In vain did she bury her
face in the pillows of her couch, when she re-
tired. In vain did she rise early the next morn-
ing and spend the whole forenoon in shopping.
In vain did*she seek in the afternoon the con.
solation afforded by the spiritual conversation of
her pastor, Dr. Tinker. The evening came ana
with it a spirited but touching note from the
martyr. Seven more notes followed to and fro
in rapid succession, explanatory, amatory, accusa-
tory, vindicatory, exculpatory, and reconciliatory.
The martyr himself then approached and the
whole matter, including the entire correspondence
was laboriously discussed, and we question which
at the close was the happiest, the triumphant
martyr or the repentant tyrant.
The day succeeding that of the national
jubilee, Moses received a letter from  huis uncle,
dated at the celebrated watering-place, Saratoga,
containing the information that the writer had
left Ilampleboro from its excessive dullness, and
had proceeded directly to the Springs. It was
agreed upon by Moses and Mr. Titman that
nothing would be pleasanter for both than to
comply with his desire to have them join him
there. To their increased delight Mr. Barnard
also determined to go, although they informed
him of their plan but three hours before they
left. He nevertheless met them on the steam-
boat as fresh as a daisy, and as easy about his
baggage a if he had not atrunk, threo fishing-
rods, a short gun, a horse and saddle, and al
Irish groom aboard. The noble Hudson was an
object of great interest to our hero. From the
deck of the boat he could easily see the magni-
ficent-country seats along its banks, with tho
people thereof lolling upon thq grass beneath
the trees, or sailing in their pleasuire-boats upon
the river. Every one he~ descried appeared to be


MR. WINKFIELD.                95

MR. WINKFIELD.

replete with tranquil enjoyment, in particular, an
old negro fishing on the end of' aprivate dock.
Moses's feelings were in unison with the scene,
and Titman, infected with a desire for practical
Joking, by the presence of his friend Barnard,
proposed passing himself off as an Italian count,
and was only prevented therefrom, by the latter's
suggestion that he might be possibly taken for a'
Jw peddler. Music was also lendig its charms
to the occasion from the cabin. All the country
people who were aboard were taking turns at
fingering a piano therein; a proceeding which
seemed to be considered by them as a matter
expected by the navigation company, and as a
duty which they owed to themselves in ob-
taining the proper equivalent for the-sum paid by
them as passage money. Presently a weak-
headed youth from the South, tries a song and
breaks down from feeble memory of the words.
He immediately proceeds to the coal-hole and
practices the same there to the intense delight of
tho ctl-heavers. While he is subsequently enter-
ing into a conspiracy with a passenger to have the
latter call vociferouslyfor it again, a young country
gentleman on an ottoman in the corner feels that'
the time is now come for him to lead his lady-
companion to the instrument, where after much
blusiing she consents to comply with his per-
sistent requests to give him a "chune," and
not only fills his being with ecstasy, and an ar-
dent resolve to propose before they arrive "to
homte," but apparently from the applause, affords
infinite delight to the other passengers presetit:
the selection from her repertoire being a chaste
and unique arrangement of "Old Dog Tray,"
which derived a singular amount of expression
from being executed the most of the time with
one finger.
Upon the spacious boat there were a great
many tourists, fashionable and otherwise, includ-
ing a lady with nine trunks, and the chatting was
of the most agreeable kind. Moses overheard
many diverting remarks upon society, the aris-
tocracy, and the summer begira of its fair mem-
bers. "Mrs. So-and-so goes to a small island this
side of Cuba for her health, and Mrs Blatk goes
to Europe 1"  Which were no doubt well-au-
thenticated pieces of information with some
modifications.  The "small island this side of
Cuba," being Staten Island, and Mrs. Blank
visiting Europe, by going to her father's, the old
farmer in the country,-permitting the children to
romp, and reading up about the other hemisphere
from the guide-books.
Moses and Mr. Titman attended supper below,
while Mr. Barnard, who had partaken of quite a
number of lunches, ere he started from the city,
preferred an instructive conversation with the
engineer of the boat. As the meal was unsatis-
factory to them, from the confinement of the
cabin, and from the hard breathing and danger-
ous handling of his knife, by a country gentle-
nian feeding near them, they returned to the
deck after a hasty cup of tea, to continue their
inspection of the delightful river, and enjoy the
cooling breeze that fanned their brows. At a
late hour the party retired, with the exception of
Mr. Barnard, who did not go to bed at all, partly
from the vivacity of ,his temperament. partly
ft-om the nature of his habits, and partly from
the soundness of his judgment, which prompted
himn to take a hand at short whiist, in an airy

saloon, with three commercial travelers, at ten
cents a point, rather than to become a prey to
unwholesome meditation and insects within a
seven-by-four state-room.. About three in the
morning, Mr. Titman in his night habiliments
rushed from his apartment and sought repose for
his exhausted nature upon a bench on the for-
ward deck, just as Moses, who by the power of
his philosophic habits, had at last overcome the
various adversaries of sleep, fell into a gentle
slumber. When the boat arrived at Troy, in the
morning, Mr. Barnard, taking the lead, .reheved
the minds of thirty-three hackmen as to their
desire for knowledge of the party's destination,
by wringing the nose of the largest, and followed
by Moses and Mr. Titman, proceeded to the
Coleman House for breakfast. Here they learn-
ed that an accident obstructing the track, had
occurred to the early morning train from Sara-
toga, which would delay their departure three or
four hours, and which had been caused by the
eccentric desire of a Hibernian switchman on
the previous evening to see if there really would
be any damage resulting from his leaving his
switch, and attending a shillalah party at the
village pot-house. The experiment was evident-
ly suessful, and the damage was exactly ascer-
tained for him, one head being broken upon the
engine, and thirty at the party. Moses, with Mr.
Tittian seized the opportunity of the delay to
mark the manners and dwellings of the Trojans,
and Mr. Barnard to pay his respects to one of the
principal engine companies of the city, composed
of some of the best citizens of the place. These
evidently had all the enthusiasm of provincial ad-
mirers, for when he returned, his friends learned
that upon being discovered in town, the company
had gone so far as to assemble, and tender him
an impromptu pugilistic contest with a canal-man
in a lumber-yard. The fight occurred to the
delight of all present, and undoubtedly to the
great disappointment of many other of the pr-in
cipal men of Troy, who staid away only from
ignorance of the affair or from pressure of their
engagements.  In this encounter, Mr. Barnard
had very humanely closed both eyes of his an-
tagonist at the very first round, in order as he
afterwards pleasantly expressed it,- that "he
might not see what was going to happen to him,"
and in consequence of this, the contest had been
rather short, but what it lacked from brevity,
had been made up in brilliancy ; and amid much
enthusiasm, he was further informed that a grand
collation to take place that evening would wind
up the impromptu festivities, if he and his friends
would remain. Notwithstanding this pleasant
offer, they left for Saratoga at' the appointed
hour, after taking lunch twice, and settling their
bill, wherein some little difficulty was experienced
from the charges against Mr. Barnard, among
the luxuries, for the practical jokes of kissing the
chamber-maid and running a waiter into the
cellar.
CHAPTER XLII.
AT THE SPRINGS. MR. PINKSITT, THE ARTIST,
AGAIN. A PRETTY PIECE oF BUSINESS TO coM-
MENCE WITH.
UPON arriving at the Saratoga caravansary, the
party found Mr. Toplady, who had already se-

cured ample apartments for them, consisting of a
spacious double-bedded room, nine feet square,
in the hotel, and a nice suite at a pleasant cot-
tage in the village, a quarter of a mile distant,
with any objections to rain obviated by the nume-
rous umbrellas in the possession of its affable
proprietor. As Moses professed himself delight-
ed with the idea of colonization, Mr. Barnard and
Mr. Titman at once seized upon the double-bedded
room, to give him an opportunity of realizing it,
and after a proper installation and repose, all
proceeded systematically to enjoy the life at the
Springs. They rose early, attended with regu-
larity the races of the tumbler-boys to the foun-
tains, drank the waters therefrom, and after the
customary sickness and the abolition of any
traces of appetite lingering in their systems, inci-
dent thereto, underwent the usual form of break-
fasting. Mr. Barnard expended his forenoons in
the billiard-room. Mr. Toplady passed much of
his time with some old friends, accompanying
the married ladies with due circumspection,
while Moses and Mr. Titman, sauntered with,
others in the park, or enjoyed the scene from the
balcony. This became a favorite place for our
hero, as a philosophic roost. He could survey
therefrom the crowds of gayly-dressed pleasure-
seekers seated near him or parading below, and
speculate at case upon their various characteris-
tics. There were ladies blooming in the radiant
beauty of youth and health, with their attend-
ant beaux, and some blooming by other means,
who were attended by theirs. There were ladies
dressed in simple attire, andothers in gorgeous re-
splendence, including the fair owner of the nine
trunks, the contents of some one of which, at the
very least, she wore constantly upon her person.
There were gouty old fathers and uncles, and dys-
peptic elderly gentlemen playing with romping
children. There were middle-aged ladies, who,
from. their costume, might have been classed
among the young ones if they had not dispelled
the illusion by acting like little girls. There
were heavy dowagers with rough voices and hairs
on the nose, and slim ones with a tender solici-
tude for their daughters' lungs, and a constant
apprehension of their little boys being submerged
in the fish-pond. And among these there was
much mysterious gossip and match-making and
undoing, and the kissing was so prevalent that
Titman frequently became bewildered by it, and
often lingered near the fair groups with unde.
fined expectations. There were, whist parties in
the parlors, and croquet parties in the park.
There were people yawning from the effects of
last night's ball, and others who were still very
lively therefrom. And to distinguish them so-
cially, there were the sudden mushrooms, who
never knew the names of their grandfathers; and
there were the representatives of the pure Ameri-
can aristocracy, whose honest plebeian ancestors
probably would not care-to know them could they
return again upon earth; and there wasone person-
age, who claimed to be a direct descendant of
Attila the Scourge, and carried with him continual-
ly a written genealogy to prove it, which was
quite unnecessary,
The morning saunter was succeeded by the af-
ternoon drive, and if the day wasdelightful, what
was the evening ? All, youth, middle-age and an-
tiquity, assembled in the ball-room to intensify
each other's delights. The light forms moving in

94

the graceful intricacies of the quadrille and ]an-
guishing upon the manly shoulder in the fairy
waltz, constituted an exquisite spectacle, while
other forms languishing against the wall, were in-
teresting spectacles also. In the moonlight upon
the balcony, while music swelled from within,
were the whispering in corners, the fond gaze,
the palpitating heart, the stolen kiss, or else the
abrupt intrusion of parental jealousy "afraid of
the night air," or malignant envy, afraid of
nothing.
Moses contracted many new friendships and
renewed some old ones. At dinner, upon the first
day of his arrival, while Mr. Titman was being im-
pressed with the thrilling ceremony of uncovering
the soup, to the Soldiers' Chorus in Faust, and
was staring in stupefaction at the gorgeous negro
head waiter, adorned with diamond ear-rings;
and while he himself was glancing over the blaze
of elegance at the tables, our hero observed Mr.
Pinksitt, the artist, with whom he became ac-
quainted at the Evereroft, and who at once
pleasantly recognized him. Avery fresh-looking
young lady was seated with the painter, to whom
he seemed to be devoting his smiles and atten-
tion, and also a staid elderly gentleman, appar-
entiv her father, who was devoting his amIles to
the bird before him. After dinner, the painter
joined Moses, and informed him that he had been
in the country the most of the time since he had
left the Evercroft, at a village on Long Island,
getting up some marine things.
" Ah I and our friend Captain Grimble and his
wife ?" asked Moses in a low voice, for his
thoughts involuntarily reverted to that eccentric
fire-junk, and tender. "Have you seen them
frequently ?"
"No, no," replied Mr. Pinksitt with a sudden
frown, and a nervous tug at his artistic beard.
He certainly had something to reveal to Moses,
but hesitated, and Moses, observing his agitation,
delicately refrained from pursuing the blithesome
subject.
"By the way, I.have some friends here from
Quogue. You saw them with me at dinner,"
presently resumed the artist, recovering from his
abstraction. "I would like to introduce you."
" I should be very happy," replied Moses.
"She has retired just now to take a nap, or
what is as refreshing to ladies, you know, to havo
a talk with some female friend."
The next forenoon Moses expended in the so-
ciety of the young lady, when he soon observed
that she looked upon the rising sun of modern
painting with much favor, and seemed to allude
to the marine views with even a semi-prop' ictary
air. He saw this with gratification. He was
pleased to observe it, as an evidence of the art-
ist's emancipation from his previous relations.
In the course of two or three days, Moses re-
ceived a letter from New-York, directed in a
lady's hand. Upon opening it, he discovered it
was but an envelope, containing an epistle ad-
dressed to Mr. Pinksitt, and in some astonishment
thereat, he at once took the inclosure to the lat-
ter. The artist opened it, read it, and at once
manifested some intention of speedily reducing
himself to the necessity of wearing a wig.
" This is too much, Winkfield. I manage to
keep her away, but she will continue to send me
these protestations of love I" said he with a look
of despair.


96

"Who?    Is it from Mrs. Grimble ?" asked
Moses. "And what on earth did she send it to
me for?"
" Excuse me, Winkfield, but I took the liberty.
You know Saratora is a dreadful place for gossip,
and I fear to receive even a newspaper from her'
here. I took the liberty, as she will write, to
have her address her notes to you during ,rthe
short period of the season here."
" But I-"
" You know you alone are acquainted with my
relations with her; and my dear Winkfield, I can
confide in you, and in no-one else."
" That is very true, but still is not this arrange-
meat a little too-"1
mt1tlEhe? You do not, like it? I will have it
stopped. I'll have it stopped at once !" replied
the artist disappointedly.
" Oh! no, no !" exclaimed Moses, overcoming his
slight dissatisfaction, upon observing the infesti-
vity of the other's appearance.
The artist here became more melancholy than
ever; and fell into little fits of stupor, from which
it seemed difficult to arouse him.
" Aboy l" answered he, as Moses started him
for the fifth time, probably from dreams of Capt.
Grimble and others. "Yes, Winkfield, it is of
no use, she will not give me up. She would die
rather than see  e marry ."
" This is really a terrible position to be placed
in," said Moses i sympathy. . "It is the conse-
quence of allowing our temporary inclination to
overcome.our sense of habitual duty."
This philosophical reflection did not appear to
comfort the distracted artist very much, for he
answered: "But she-she patronized me in my
profession. She was the first who did. She
loved rue, and the worst of it was, I thought I
did her. And I can not be an ingrate, Winkfield,
I can not be an ingrate !"
"Ingrate!" exclaimed Moses. "Why, what
are you groiiig to do ?
She wants me to wait until her husband is
dead," replied Mr. Pinksitt.  " He has had a
slight touch of apoplexy since you saw im-en.
raged at his cook!l"
"But  in not right in assuming, Mr. Pink.
sitt, that another-that Miss Tucking-"
" Yes, Winkfield, it is she only whom I love
or can ever love !" exclaimed the artist passion.
ately. "And let this dear girl once know that
I have been so basely capable of deceiving
another, as I have Josephinie-let Agnes and hei
father know that I have been so weak-as to leti
myself to Mrs. Grimble's penchant, and I am lost
The sole hope of my life is lost!"
"And let Capt. Grimble know it," though
Moses, " and it would not make much difference
whether you had any hopes or not
"Josephine-that is, Mrs. Grimble-is in en.
tire ignorance of even my acqutaitaiceship witi
Miss Tucking. And it is my present object t
keep her so, Winhfield; that is until-until-
I'm distracted-at any rate for the present."
"You are quite right. You have freed your
self, and you are now authorized to take an,
measures to emancipate her too from this infatr
ation,"replied Moses vehemently.
The next day he again visited the artist's roor
for the purpose of encouraging him in his effort
to free himself fiom the improper ecuiimstaiice
which had so long surrounded him. Miss Tucli

ing and her father were there. The young lady
was merrily romping with her lover, and the
father was complaisantly looking on with the oc-
casional feint of t little parental expostulation
thereat.
"Ah Mr. Winkfield! you are just in time. Have
an ice, do ! We have just had ours up," said the
artist,
The young lady had stopped her liveliness to
salute Moses, and apparently feeling it necessary
to subside gracefully to the decorum of acquaint-
anceship, pretended to pick the pocket of Mr.
Pinksitt's professional dressing-gown hanging over
his traveling easel. Noticing a piece of paper
beneath the easel, she picked it up, however, and
exclaimed: " Oh!1 what a dear little note in buff
and blue! May I read it, Edmund ?"
" No, noy" said the latter, hastily attempting
to snatch it from her. Taking his act as a lover's
trifling, she alternately held the note in triumph
from his reach, and read aloud therefrom, by,
snatches, the following remarkable words:
" Dear friend, I am sick of my husband. He
grows worse and worse. He pulled the cook's
nose again this morning and is unbearable. But
your love, my dear friend, sustains amid these
trials, one who should have been
Your own JOSEPHINE.'

"Sick of her husband t Your own Josephine l"
repeated the innocent young lady, turning pale
and sinking into a chair. " 0 father! give this
horrid note, written in ugly blue ink, to-Mr.
]Vinksitt ! P.
"No, not to me !" exclaimed the latter, in his
agitation, still permitting the note to lie upon the
carpet, whither it had dropped from the discom-
posed young lady's hand. He cast an appealing
look at Moses, undoubtedly indicating that he
would-be pleased with a very peculiar piece of
friendship on our hero's part.
" To whom, then ?" asked Mr. Tucking, picking
up the note, with the air of a man.afraid of infec-
tion.
"oTo-to Mr. Winkfield !" replied his proposed
son-in-law, hesitating.
" Really, I do not know if it belongs to him,"
said the Quogue country gentleman, with polar
severity.
" Ohs! yes, I assure you !* See the accompany-
ing address. It's in the same handwriting and
to Mr. Winkfield," said the willingly conmunica-
tive artist, rushing to the table and taking up the
wrapper, which Moses had left with the letter.
The young lady uttered an exclamation of joy
and followed to the window 1er father, who was
suspiciously examinin'g the envelope, at arma's
length through his eye-glass.
"But, my dear, sir !" whispered the astounded
Moses to Pinksitt.
"For God's sake, say nothing now !" replied the
latter.
.It is true," said Mr. Tuekinc who had finished
his quarantine examination, and approached Mo-
ses. "Itis yours, sir, and I beg pardon for my
delay in giving it to you, sir."
Gracious heaven my dear sir- "c      e
Moses, bewilderedly holding the note.
"You will excuse us for havingaccidentally
discovered that which had better have been never
.known," said the paterfamilias, still continuing

MR. WINKFIELD.

MR. WINKFIELD.

his pleasing attempt to freeze Moses ; or perhaps
never have bee'r  Never have been, sir 1"
" But, sir-!"interposed Moses again excitedly
"Fie, sir, fie I" said the gentleman, now trying
the warm treatment of shaming Moses into a
sense of propriety. "But pardon us, sir, pardon
us. We still must feel it is a humiliating secret,
which is properly your own, sir !"
Moses was in terrible discomfiture. Hie felt his
hair standing upon end.
" My daughter and I are about taking a little
walk in the park. Meantime we hope, Mr. Pink-
sitt, you will endeavor to assure your friend for
us, that we have been very unwillingly intrusted
with this objectionable knowledge," continued the
Long Island parent pompously. "Good day, sir,
good day, Mr. Winkfield."'
Moses made a wild attempt to rush after them,
but was restrained by the excited artist.
" What are you going to do ?" asked the latter.
" To disabuse their minds !" replied Moses hasti-
ly, " to-",
" What? Why, think, what you do to me !"
" But this gentleman is a man of few words, and
has had an impression of my character which-
which-"
"Oh ! pray rest easy, Winkfield. You are not
placed as I am !" implored the artist.
" But Iam!" said Moses, in renewed excitement.
I have a friend in New-York, who-dear me, if
she were to -hear-"
" But she is not here !" continued the artist dis.
tractedly. "What does it amount to, that Ag-
nes and her father, who are comparative strangers
to you, should imagine that you-"
"But heavens! They imagine what is not so!
What is not true !" said Moses vehemently.
" They will never say any thing about it: They
are people of honor, and, my dear friend, you will
save me and my life and her's-Josephine s, by
heaven, think of it !"
The appeal became too great for Moses's feel-
ingrs. He gave up his designa of following Mr.
Taking and daughter, and presently left the grate-
ful artist and went to his. own lodgings.
"1 Pretty business!" ejaculated he on the way.
However, keep quiet and -nothing will be known
about it. He must certainly be assisted in his
difficulties."
But to increase those difficulties, to augment
Moses's misgivings and add to the interest of the
situation, Mrs. Grimble, accompanied by her ep-
centric lord, arrived that afternoon. Moses was
conjured by the agitated artist to screen his posi-
tion from her observation, and introduced to her.
After a short but comprehensive estimate of her
peculiar character, Moses firmly concluded that a
discovery, by this mercurial female, of the artist's
relations with Miss Tucking would be hazardous
of a volcanic explosion, in which some of the
dibris might perchance be scattered over him.
But as fortune had made him the sole depository
of the disagreeable secret, and he seemed the
only one who might assist the unhappy artist, he
resolved to continue the exercise of his benevo-
lence toward the latter, consistently, of course,
with the obligation.to himself of preserving his
own moral and physical system  intact therein.
lie, therefore, at once artfully endeavored to per-
SUade Captain Grimble to leave the watering-
place, although it was but the day after the latter
arrived-.

h "There IYou see mywife, Winkficld," sald
the marine, who was somewhat irritated at a vio-
lent snubbing he had jdst received from his wife.
" What do you think of her? She let's me decide,
you see. The point being always, whether I shall
permit her to have her own way or, stand by and
see her take it.Peculiar, Isn't she ?" b
"Not at all, not at all. The prerogatives of the
sex, you know," replied Moses. "By the way,
both she and you will enjoy the society here very
mafch, I imagine, Captain. It is regarded as a
little stupid by some, and I know of one or two
who even intend to leave at the very first oppor-
tunity, but still, people will find fault everywhere,
you know."
I didn't want to come at all-Mrs. Grimble
again."
"At any rate, Captain, if nothing better, while
you are here, you can occupy your time very
beneficially in going through a course of the water
medically. Dieting, keeping yourself in your room
most of the time, you know, and taking your out-
door exercise regularly. I advise you to; as an
invalid, you couldn't do better,"
"D-n it! I can do that at heme !"
TIt would perhaps be better at your house.
The water is better bottled; and, surrounded with
domestic comforts, it would certainly be much
better if you went through the course in your own
house."
o Failing to persuade the gallant captain to fol-
low this beneficial advice, Moses resorted to other
maneuvers for the generous purpose of segregating
that gentleman and his wife as much as possible
from contact with Mr. Pinksitt. So assiduons
and constant did he become in paying his court
to Mrs. Grimble, so profusely complimentary, so
eager in the offer of his services to her, that one
day, when at the well with her lord, he thought
he detected an inclination upon the part of that
gentleman to throw a glass goblet at his head,
and on another, he discovered him taking hdeliber-
ate aim at him with his forefinger, as if lie were
imagining it a first-quality dueling-pistol.
Confound this marine monomaniac !" thought
Moses. "He can't be getting jealous of me! Good
gracious, suppose he should find out that his wife
had been addressing notes to me! By heaven, if
I were alone here, I shouldebe tempted to go
away and get rid of the whole business at once!
But no " continued he striking his breast, "I
will not dishonorably desert one who has appealed
to my aid in his efforts to recover the path of
duty. Besides that, I am no doubt mistaken."
CHAPTER XLIII.
IN WHICH MR. PINKSITT Is IMPRUDENT, MOSES
ARTLESS, AND MRS. GIUMBLE TRAn STRONG. A
LETTER FROM MR. DIFFICULTY,
UPoN an island of the neighboring lake, short-
ly after Mr. and Mrs. Grimble's arrival, there took
place from the hotel a picnic, which Moses looked
upon as a failure. Firstly, because every body
wished to be exclusive and speak to nobody;
secondly, because they would not dance, as they
had enough of that to do at the hotel; thirdly
because they could not fish, as there were no
fhin e lk; fourthl, because there seemed


98

MR. WIN

nothing to be done, except to eat the luncheon
and look at the scenery, both of which were very
uninteresting; and fifthly, because Mr. Toplady
was shot quite severely in the leg, in an attempt
at archery, gotten up among the ladies toward
the close.
Mr. Barnard had done his best to rescue the
assembly from their dejection. He had proposed
for that purpose, early in the proceedings, that
the banquet should be spread and eaten, particu-
larly, as, owing to the vicissitudes of dissipation,
he had only partially breakfasted that morning
upon a segar and a glass of Congress water. He
had afterward facetiously tied a ferocious bull-
frog upon the bosom of a gentleman who had re-
sorted to the oblivion of slumber for relief, col-
laterally securing in either hand a garden toad,
and then awakened him with a shower of grass-
hoppers. But even this and other little speci-
pens of the young gentleman's liveliness failed
to be inspiring. The only funny thing which ap-
peared to be appreciated during the whole of the
performance was an attempt upon the part of Mr.
Titman to sing a serious song. Captain Grimble's
knowledge of aquatic matters had been called
into requisition, and he had been carried to the
picnic, not unwillingly, for his wife had sprained
her foot on the morning of its occurrence, and
shown savage symptoms of megrims in conse-
quence of thesaccident. She had been covertly
promised the society of Mr. Pinksitt during her
lord's absence, and perhaps it was chiefly from
the painter's infatuation in neglecting her to ac-
company Miss Tucking to the festivity, that Moses
felt it to have been a failure.
When the hour for returning came, the foolish
artist contemplated the possible insalubrity of this
step. It then suddenly struck him that her sus-
picions might have been aroused by it, that she
even might be very uncomfortably awaiting his
return to the hotel, with wrath enough in her re-
flections to create a serious scene.  Oppressed
with this unpleasant idea, he confessed his delin
quency to Moses, and induced him to proceed
ahead as scout, with the agreement to follow him
and tarry at the wells to await any threatening
intelligence he might procure. Again inspired
with the rectitude of the cause, Moses at once
generously set out for the hotel, and, there pro
ceeded to virtuously sneak about the premises in
cautious search of Mrs. Grimble's presence. Shi
was not in her parlor, but he presently found he'
at a hall window near the artist's apartments
She had been reading there a book which appar
ently disagreed with her; so much so, that th
hall waiter had removed his station to the othe
end of the passage, in alarm at her irritated start
and impatient expressions. She started again a
seeing Moses, but immediately recovered herself
and smiled with extraordinary sweetness upo
him.
"Waiter, take this book to my apartment. S
you have" returned from the picnic, Mr. Wink
field. Where are your friends ?" said she
"1Where is Mr. Pinksitt?  He was there, o
course."
There were here some symptoms of ferocit
at the mention of Mr. Pinksitt's name ; but Mose
was glad to attribute them ,to her unpleasant
ankle, for she immediately smiled again sweetly
ad Rad:-
"Mr. Winkfleld, I am charmed with your b

FIELD.
MR. WINKFIELD. g
nevolence and self-sacrifice. Anow me to express
the unbounded admiration I have for such vir.       posely tohavoid me, the traitor?  But he shall Mr. Tucking, who had been    introduced  to
tuous efforts. . The last instance of it, in particu.  not, he shall not !"                      her.
lar, calls for my gratitude even !"  -                At the utterance of these terrible words, which  Mrs. Grimble bowed, but did not answer him
" Your gratitude I" exclaimed Moses, attempt.     were accompanied by the most unfavorable looks, further.
ing to look virtuous.                               she flirted off at once to her apartments.  With  "May be she is like me, out of breath and can
"Yes I" said she, glaring terribly upon him;     the speed of a startled hare, Moses bounded from  not. Oh! if she would only stay sol" thought
"and I may -repay you, sir, in good time. But the hotel into the park, and led many of the par- Moses.
tell me," continued she, suddenly retaking her     ties who were loitering in the latter to believe he  "Your daughter, Mr. Tucking," suggested the
gracious air, and smiling mere sweetly than ever, was mad as a March one, by his wild flight to the artist, desperately, as his propped father-in-law
"tell me about the picnic, do 1"                   place 6f assignation with the painter. It was as he began to appear somewhat astonished.  " Mrs.
"Yes, I will, certainly !" replied Moses, slight-  expected. The artist had but just arrived there, Grimble, allow me. This is Miss Agnes Tucking."
ly startled.                                       and with him were the inevitable Mr. and Miss   "No.   She is so enraged she can't speak.
" Tell me, sir," said she, setting her teeth and  Tacking, who were ready to saunter toward the Gracious! it will be terrible presently I" again
flirting her fan convulsively, telll me - your    hotel.thut
friend, Mr. Pinksitt-was he at the picnic?'          "My friend! my friend p" gasped he. "I beg   tardMos me s    y    daughter, sir," said the
"Yes," replied Moses, stammering in confusion   pardon; I didn't observe you-scarcely,   con. ent' female slowly to Mr. Tucking. "And your
at her authoritative air. "I-he-that is-I beg     tinued he, addressing  the  worthy natives of friend, Mr. Pinksitt," continued she with freezing
Quogue-                                     significance to the unhappy artist.
"And you, no doubt, thought he'd better be         What is your agitation, Mr. Winkfield ? One  "Here it comes. She can contain herself no
there than at home. You induced him to go VI      would think you were really being pursued by longer," murmured Moses.
continued she, with some symptoms of personally   some one" exclaimed Mr. Tucking.                Am I not right, sir " continued the female
attacking Moses, as the derelict artist's acknow.  cs     it is nothing, not ling  It is only be- wildly. e Is primo correct or me to assume,
ledgred friend,                                   cause I have been running. I've come quick,"7 Miss, before I proceed, that-"1
"I, madam ?  Certainly not," protested Moses,   replied Moses.  A personal-a personal matter    "Certainly !" interrupted the artist quickly.
in hasty forgetfulness. "I had nothing to do      of importance, upon which I wish Mr. Pinksitt's " I have the honor and pleasure, in common with
with it I"                                        advice. Excuse me !"Mr. Winkfield and others, of calling myself Miss
"What i Nothing to-do with it!   Who had,         "Ah! something connected with that affair of Tucking's friend. (Josephine! do you know
ten-was it a lady? Tellme, did e accompany          he  tt   i   ediately suggested Mr. Tucking  what you are invoking?  Death to us both and
te-ita ladythhe ?  Tl   e   i h   copn          to the artist in a low voice,                 our love!I")DI
Yes " replied Moses inanely.  "No ! That         Yes it is possible," replied the latter, turn-  It was a desperate whisper, but it had its effect.
isis"omhat                                                   ae.                             The mention of their love!/, Was she mistaken?
hi  e waltz wihher?""Oh! I am sorry  you have such a friend,"                              The temporary danger was Passed, at aiiy
"No!He did not e      e did not, I assure     whispered te young lady pettishly. aBut I rate.    She recovered her tone, nothing be
yknow you are so good, and you may recover him                                                 henceforth observable therein beyond allowable
" Did he sit by her at dinner?  Did he fill her  by your counsel."                           feminine malignance, and leaving, her intimidating
glass?  Did she pull his hair?  Did she toy with   "Yes, Yes," replied the artist, here grasping time confused Mr. Tucking, whom ahe judiciously
his watch-chain, the min ?" continued she, rap-  his hair isanelv.                           chose as the object of its severity, Moses betook
"And do talk to him. Talk to him now, the himself to his room, where his feelings were mo-
idly, almost breathlessly.wrthdmn.whehifelgseemo
" Yes," replied Moses, astonished to remember   reafulcd man. Rescue him from his dreadful, mentarily diverted from the subject by the follow-
- that this was pretty much what had furtively             course                                 ing iiterestimg letter, which he had received from
I taken plce between the enamored couple. "That    "Why, what is the matter? What makes yom   his servant Bruswick.
comae in this breathless manner ?"1 asked the art.  i evntBusik
s"Did he walk about with her?    Did lie have   ist quickly, as his friends turned away.       "RasPacTAuLE Sin,
his arm around her waist?" continued she, rising   "Nothing. Tell, em you are sick or sometmg,  "According to the promise promulgated by me
in her rage. "Did she pout at him?  Did he-    edo from here," replied our hero in a hasty and ratified onto by yourself before we temper
I did he-kiss her ?"                               I   rW"isper.                                parted for the nonst, I take my pen into hand
" On one occasion,"7 replied Moses idiotically;    "From here ?  Where to ?"f1- artlfor te ons Notnen               myvpcns intohr,
"there may have been-" "Anywhere but the 1otel'or on these grounds. aid that daind-excuse the site blasfeimy! ceptin,
"Oh I I knew it! I guessed it !" exploded      Go"t onceh   o                               perhaps, I vent to camp-meeti on Long Island's
e she in her fury. "The wretches IThe miserable      "But   hat does this mean?. sea-girts shor. Inow take my pen n hand for to
r creatures ! The chit ! Who is she ? Ah i! this "Go, I tell you, or look out for a storm and recount the numerous scenes, religious, obscene,
minx I have seen him with three times since I      Andvscn" and otherwise. There was a teremnjous crowd
- have been here ?".                                 "An  wy  -"               'onto the train, but the terp was luckly short, as
e    "Madam, allow me to explain. You mistake.       "Because Mrs. Grimble has discovered all, and it was quite hot, sir, and the senses was rendered
r ITe was merely endeavoring to make the day      is looking for you. That's all," replied Moses, extremely sensitive. It was a beautifully day, and
s pleasant, madam, I assure you, for an acquaint  fwio undoubtedly said last what he ought to have all nature smiled, and most of the passengers
t  ne fhi  ndmnefomLngIlad wo"        first.                                                           1ms     ftepsegr
t dance of his and mine from Long Island, who-       "Greattook advantage of the tavern 'jest above the
"Where is he?    I will expose him! 1 IWill    "Great God!Ihow can Iuhinder-               grounds, to do so also  to mnothei way. The
n publicly expose him.' I will bring him to the   Min! "reie no longer time     There she is camp ground was an attractive site, sir, so activity
punishment he so richly deserves."                   g "  p      roses in a flint voice.      and religious fever. But excuse the digreshun,
o    "But, madam," expostulated Moses, "is not     A    approne   g them, with rapid steps, was and to resume.  I wandered about onderneatha
your interest in this matter--may it not seem  the il-mateled lady. There was no opportunity the trees, and looking into the tents. A great
somewhat extraordinary, if not to society at    a ettpe. Tostr ten and run would have been many other colored mn   were doing the same
f large, at least to Captain Grimble ?"           a pretty piece of business, extremely pretty anmd thing, and lots of artikics werec casually stole.
"Where is Edmund ?   You, as the accomplice  frmi ito tie bystanders, if inothmg resulted Mother-in-law injured herself the fumst two days,
.y of his perfidy, ought to know," continued sihe.  " h!hr!                d.                   riding in the whoolegig outside time tents, and time
sa " He hasn't returned from the picnic yet," re- Ah ervee you are I"said the lady, stopping stujent was also injured into his moral feelins by
at plied Moses.  ("Heavens ! suppose he is at the    mdareiu the quartet.                   losing 40 cents on the thimble; now you ace him
y funtin  ow.Sh  is't o lme  utthat sh    "aaim th artrs. Grimdbe  Allo    in e" x- and now you don't, sir, you know. There wasa
wy ountai w. Shr her sn't so lmeebt himimed th artit, forced to take notice of her good many of 'em about, and after semon, was
e-   " But he will, won't he ?  Is he trying puir-  Peculiar air, it was so evident. Grmg ?  ad en'lly 'dnlged insby thim members, as had little


100

MR. WIN

and was, no doubt, encouraged by the, ministers,'
as when they lost it made 'ein gloomy and desire
consolation of their pastoi's words.  Nothin'
further occurred the fust two days, 'cept, perhaps,
a young man put himself out of jint in four
places, while drawin' himself up in exstasy, and
let himself out suddenly to express his religious
feeling.
" Third -day. I begin to sperience feelins of
retchedness myself towards night, which I attri-
bute to the fac' there was no water handy to
wash into, and had been two days and a half with
a dirty face, but a lady as had taken an interest
into me, led me to the angus seats, and I diskiv-
ered it was religion. As it was evenin', and she
sat by me, and we held each other up, sleepin'
part of the time durin' the discourse, which last
11 o'clock fourth day.
"Fourth day. The remainder of the fourth
day I pass over as of little interest as it was pass-
ed in sleepy oblivion. N.B.-I was not so much
drunk, sir, as tired, as you may imagine from the
above recital.  But 'to continue. I will now
drop the dairy form, and resume the easy hys
terical flow of logical narrating the subsequent
events, as it is more natural for me. Besides, I
forget the exact days. Sufficient to say, I had hol
altogether lost my site, my memory dear and
English home and beauty, to quote a fine inscrip
tion onto a monument heard of by me.' I wac
drugged by some parties unknown to me an
forced to join the church. I escaped from thi
converted fold, and, insensible as I was, instinct
ively picked out the stujent in the crowd, wh(
was continually hollerin' about me as a sinner
who ought to be saved from d--nation-excus
the profanity-and administered to him a sever
punishment four times onto his person, twice
with my foot in his rear, it is subsequently relate
to me, and twicet into his left eye. It was a di
grace, I confess it, and I am sorry to relate it t
you as my respected employer of my capacities
as servant, but I have felt that I ought to b
frank, and besides that you requested me to writ
to you minutely. Perhaps it was not my fault
I am gen'ally temperate ; I never think of -drinkit
nothin' 'cept what's left at dinner, as you knov
and' far be it from my thought -ever to treat a r
ligious 'sembly with creatin' violence and a rov
That is what I told the constable of the town r
siding near the canip, and he finally left me o
on payment to him of two dollars and my letti
him have my new vest. He kept me three da;
in his cellar, and he said the food I had was
much as that. Mother-in-law was very indige
the first day all day, and tended to the stujen
w49 was severely injured. However, she and t1
above lady and one or two friends afterward can
down to the constables, who, as a legal office
couldn't be tampered with by them, and as t
minister was with 'em, and he felt the outrage
and besides that, mother-in-law had put evfe
cent she had with her into the plate. But to
vert to our subject. In my respect for mothe
feelins, as she 'peared to feel bad, I went up
the stujent, and forgave him. So no more fro
yours at present. The minit you want me, se
immejiate, and I will jine you quicker than a wi
or a eagle flying' after his prey. I want to very mu
I miss you, my guide, fatl~ier, and friend, if y
.will humbly pardon my addrespin' of yor as su(
but such I really feeL

TKFIELD.                                                                             MR. WIN
"Good by, sir. N.B.-When I come shall I         that she wound up with such -outrages upon my
fetch your thick clothes?  I now respectfully bid  feelings, that-that I felt myself freed at the
you adieu.t    c     s'     ,                     moment from the only chain which bound me-
" I am your sincere friend and well-wisher,    my remorse at breaking the tie-and summoning
I1"H. BRuNswtcK DIFFicULTs.        courage, I told her firmly that she had broken it
"P.S.-Remember me to Mr. Toplady, who I herself by her outrages upon my feelings, and
hope is well, and otherwise enjoying' God's blessing . that I would, in fine, marry Agnes ; and she
.pe s wll, nd thewise Joyn~o',sbessn'. agreed to it! With a terrible passion, Winkfleld,
Also to Mr. Titman, and Mr. Barnard, aid pre-    she agreed to it, and informed me she was as glad
sent them with respects in behalf of your truly  as I, to break the tie between us. t ohe then flew
devoted accomplice in your benevolent missions.   outo a room."
-out ,, oue room."
H.B.Diaw."       " She flew out of the room !" repeated Moses.
"Then I am afraid, dear me! it is not all over, my
friend."
CHAPTER XLIV.                         "What1' don't you think so ?" asked the
artist dubiously.
CULMINATION OF THE RELATIONS OF MR. PINKsI'T       "Beg pardon," said a domestic, approaching
WITH MRS. GRIMBLE.                  them. " Mr. Pinksitt, a note for you, sar."
NEXT morning at breakfast, Moses met his fel-   "Good God I" exclaimed the artist, tearing
low-conspirator.                                 open the epistle. "I-I-Winkfield---"
"Free! I am free !" said the latter, taking      "What is the matter ?" said Moses, hastily
Moses -aside.  "I can breathe again, my dear     supporting the other. "You stagger!  You are
friend Winkfield !"                              sick-"    ,
-   " What !"                                         It is from her!1 It is from her, Winkfield.
t   "I belong only to myself. I am my master.      Here, read  said the artist faintly, "She in-
All is broken. She has released me and forever."  sists upon another interview ."
t   " May heaven keep it soI I hope she may not     "I ,told you ao. What did I tell you just
I change her mtind !" said Moses.                  now?" exclaimed Moses angrily, as he took the
-   " Poor Josephine !" 'exclaimed the artist.    letter.  "This affair isn't finishedI  It isn't
s   "Good heaven, are you regretting her already !"  finished, and never will be."
d exclaimed our hero,' with more misgiving.  ,        'I've sent Captain Grimble to Ballston to
e    "Oh ! no, but I must pity her."               procure rooms. He has become extremely ugly,
- Yes, she is in an extremely wretched position,  and wishes to go away too. Come to my parlor.
o and she merits our pity. No, she does not," re-  I must see you this once I'" read Moses from the
, canted Moses severely, having time to recollect  note.
e his position as a strict upholder of the morals of  "I must go," said the artist resignedly. "I
e society, and in addition to that, the irritating fact  suppose I must !"
t that in spite of that strictness, he had already  "Yes, I suppose you must, replied Moses,
d been exposed, through her agency, to the con-    who had some apprehensions that the lady might
s- tempt of at least two of his fellow-beings. "Not  otherwise very definitivelyundertake to conclude
o a bit. Not a bit. And you must be firm !n       the difficulties, by divulging the whole affair to
s ." Well, it is all over, my dear friend, and I am  her husband; "but be firm! Be firm !"
e firm !".                                         . The artist promised to be firm, and departed;
te  "But are you sure? Tell me, what did she say?  whereupon Moses for more than an hour, in vari-
t. You met her in -secret, and-" '                ous attitudes and various distracted conversations
n'   " Yes; she immediately came to my room, and   with different parties, awaited his return. At
W, commenced at once by saying calmly that she     last he came.
e- wished to convince herself it was not a dream or  " It is all arranged. She wished to tell me
w. an imposition.  She then suddenly exclaimed:    she had taken time to reason," said he. "She
e- ' No, it is true ; it is real. You can not deceive  acknowledged the folly and error of continuing to
ff me any longer. You, who have affected, before  cherish her ideas, and she had now determined
n' me, the most tender sentiment, have been in the  to consent. She told me she would still love me
ys mean while quietly arranging your union with an-  as a friend-a brother," continued he,, much
as other! Wretch, if I ought not to have expected  affected ; " and she is only to remain over night
nt love from you, I at least thought I could expect the  and to-morrow, and appear in the ball-room this
it, honor, loyalty, and frankness of a gentleman l"  evening, and then she is going to Ballston, and it
he    "Good !" ejaculated Moses.                   will all be over !"
ne    "Accuse my frankness and not my honor, I rd.  "At last it looks so," said Moses, in great
er, plied; I swear to you, that from the very first day,  satisfaction.
he I promised to tell you all, but whenever I saw   That evening the lady appealed in the ball-
e, you, I had neither the courage nor the force to  room, with no traces of her morning's anguish;
ry avow to you that-but I will not tell you Wink-  and she danced and flirted vivaciously with every
re- field what occurred afterward. She-she accused  one, except the artist.
r's me of vilely marrying for money ; and having     "Yes. She is a noble woman to be able to
to recalled to tny memory the many benefits she had make such an effort," thought Moses. -" And
~m conferred, upon me in my profession, she coon- Pinksitt, too. No wonder he -appears somewhat
nd menced to treat me-as she does her husband      ill at ease and still concerned. It is the thought
nk sometimes. She then appealed to my genero-ity .of having been the cause of such a trial to that
ch. to give her time to become accustomed to the thing, interesting creature. But, thank heaven!i the
on and in the same breath flew into another fit of  trial has been concluded in the cause of pro-
oh, rage, and vowed she would declare all, and scnd  priety."
me and herself to destruction. Suffice it to say,  And with these happy reflections he proceeded

to devote himself to tiiefestivity. Moving here
and there in the illuminated hall, amid the love-
liness and grace of its occupants, or sustaining
some exquisite form in the various dances there-
in, or listening in delighted benignity to the low
gentle-oice of his partner in some cool alcove.
His friends apparently shared with him the plea-
sure of the evening. At its commencement, Mr.
Titiman was honored with the society of a young
lady, who endeavored to impress him with a no-
tion of her refinement by an intense demonstra-
tion of frigidity; but, notwithstanding this and
the physical effect therefrom of catching a slight
cold and sneezing once or twice, he was enabled
to continue his hilarity until an extremely late
hour, when he was forced to his lodgings by
three waiters under the command of Mr. Barnard.
When Mr. Toplady retired, he judiciously fol-
lowed up the'business fidelity with which he had
attended to his terpsichorean duties, by rubbing
his limbs with brandy, and Mr. Barnard followed
his by applying the same internally. As for our
hero himself, the graceful manner in which he
performed various redowas, varsoviennes, etc.,
called forth the admiration of numerous young
ladies; and even the accident of being thrown in
a sitting position upon an old lady's lap, caused
by the enthusiastic rapidity of a waltz, which he
had executed with a congenial young lady, was
passed over by the ancient gentlewoman herself
with but a sriort or two of momentary indigna-
tion, owing to his affable bearing. And he con-
tinued his efforts until he and the lights were
fairly put out.
CHAPTER XLV.
CULMINATION OF MOSES'S RELATIONS WITH CAPT.
GRtIMBLE.
NEXT morning Moses, in returning from his
customary morning walk, found Mr. Titman at
breakfast, in company with Mr. Toplady, Mr.
Barnard, and a party of fashionable young gentle-
men, whom he was convulsing with the wit which
he had imbibed from the negro minstrels during
his brief stay in New-York, and which was ren-
dered sufficiently original, by his affecting it to
be so, to make it highly pleasing. After gener-
ously doing his share of applauding these affable
efforts of the little gentleman, Moses repaired to
the balcony with Mr. Barnard. He was there
presently caught by a party of interesting young
ladies, and pressed into their service as reader of
the new poem by Tennyson, whereupon Mr.
Barnard, leaving him with the decided, conclu-
sion that he was very amiable, sought Mr. Top-
lady's society in a game of bowls.
As Moses now and then endeavored to render
the intenser passages of the poet with dramatic
force, and lifted his sonorous voice or lowered it
to the still whisper, many were the looks of ad.
mira'tion and even tenderness cast upon him and
his poetic absorption. There were some unavoid-
able interruptions by necessary remarks among
the young ladies, respecting their crotchet work,
such as, " Yes. T wo loops ; then a cross stitch !
1, 2, 3, 4. Return and fill up interstices. 1, 2, 3,
4. Then reverse," etc. And also an idiotic poo-
dle instinctively felt it his duty to bark violently

FIELD

101


102                              MR. WIN
whenever Moses raisedais arm to point the fin- f
ger of scorn, or make the lover s- appeal to s
;heaven. But otherwise his auditors  vere deeply I
delighted, and he would have come off without a f
mar to his own pleasure, if he had not felt forced a
to correct an innocent Laura Matilda who per- I
sisted in pointing out the flattest commonplaces t
of the book as exquisite gems, merely because the t
Sentences commenced .the wrong end foremost.e
After philosophically attempting to show that
true poetry consisted neither in exhibiting a sen- t
sible man in motley, nor a fool in plain dress, he I
left to wander about the park, and presently pro- 1
ceeded to his own room. It was a commodious i
front-parlor with a back bed-room, upon the first a
floor, in a pleasant cottage surrounded with a
garden of trees.
He opened the door of his parlor. "Good I
gracious !" exclaimed he.
His friend, the artist,- was agitatedly pacing I
across the room, and Mrs. Grimble was, seated i
upon the sofa, pulling her handkerchief in equal'
agitation. The fact of his parlor being made the f
place of interview may have caused him some(
alarm, but it was that of there being any interview
at all, and particularly it  agitated appearanceI
which caused him to inwardly exclaim, " Thist
eternal affair!  I knew it   She's changed her
mind againI"                              .(
" My dear sir," continued he, with a frown, to
the artist who approached him to explain; t
" why, why have you been weak enough to-"  t
" My dear Winkfield," interrupted the artist,
"excuse my liberty, for1it was necessary, such a
have become Captain Grimble's suspicions-and a
she insisted on the interview and-I thought we'd
better agree to meet once more.  She's just
come, and every thing as yet is-well, in point ofI
fact, somewhat unsettled,'but-"I
" Madam!V" said our hero energetically, turn-
ing to the lady. "You are no doubt aware of t
my having become involuntarily a confident of
your unhappy secret, entirely involuntarily, andI
it is in fact extremely disagreeable to me, but
allow me as a confident to advise, warn, nay, i
entreat you, both of you, unhappy beings, to(
summon up your courage, to fortify your duty to f
yourselves and to society, and conquer this ter-
rible attachment, which however pardonable in I
its commencement, is still leading to consequen-
ces which may be truly regarded by every en-
lightened Christian and conservative upholder of I
the conventionalities of society as no more nor
less than-awful !"
Now this oration was all very pretty, highly 1
applicable, and creditable to the moral impulses
of our hero, but we are inclined to believe if he(
had known the proceedings which were taking I
place outside at the very moment of its delivery,(
he would have refrained altogether from it, and
confined his words to a simple exhortation toE
thenm to leave his apartment instantly. But he 1
did not know that Captain Grimble's sufferings
had so increased, in consequence of his wife's
extraordinary number of headaches, ferocity and i
erratic conduct generally, as to induce that wor-
thy but sensitive gentleman to attempt to dis-
cover the cause by employing several emissaries
in the shape of numerous small boys to watch
the motions of his willful lady, not daring to do
so himself. He further was not aware that one I
of these youthful spies, but a short moment be-

ft AF-V%    -WIN-r-wqkovl

MR. WINKFIELD.

E

103

FIELD.
fore, had returned to the captain at the hotel
table with the interesting information that the
ady had turned down into the yard of Mr. Wink.
ield's lodgings, and, in fact, entered the same in
an easy and graceful manner. But luckily, as
he paused and delicately looked out of one of
he parlor-windows, that his remarks might have
heir effect unwitnessed by him, he espied the
excited captain, who had knocked down the boy
and started for the cottage, now tearing through
he front-gate and toward the house. With that
presence of mind which marks a vigorous intel.
ect, and one equal to cases of extreme and per.
lous necessity, Moses bounded to the parlor-door
and locked it. The next moment he wisely ex-
pended in revealing the coming danger to the
lady and her unhappy affinity, the next in bund-
ling them together into the back chamber, and
pointing breathlessly to a door leading out there-
from into the rear of the garden, and the next
in seizing from the centre-table a copy of that in-
teresting monthly, Godey's Lady's Book, and thus
fraudulently. but grandly awaiting events. The
captain rushed into the hall of the cottage, and
violently seized the first door-handle he met with.
It was that of Moses's apartment. The latter
arose, book in hand, and opened it. ___
"My wife I my wife! Mrs. Grimble l" ex-
claimed the captain, tearing past Moses into the
room and insanely looking beneath the sofa and
table, upon the mantel-piece, and pulling the
chairs about.;
"Eh? eh, sir ? Captain, what means this-this
abruptness ?" asked the pale Moses, heroically
summoning all -his power. "What means this
intrusion, sir ?" -
"You needn't attempt subterfuge, young man.
My wife, Mrs. Grimble. Is that woman here ?'"
roared the captain ferociously.
"Your wife, Mrs. Grimble, here P" replied the
trembling Moses and feigning a mixture of indig-
nation and surprise. "Don't you see she is not
here? Don't you see it?"
"Yes. I see she is not here. And what is
more, young man, I see-a handkerchief-a la-
dy's handkerchief !" cried the captain, darting
at an object upon the sofa, and examining it. "If
it isn't hers, scuttle me! One of the blasted
three dozen I bought at the lace store, No. 33
Bowery, and presented her with 1"
For a short moment Moses stared idiotically at
the unfortunate article of apparel, disordered,
and left by the lady in her recent agitation upon
the sofa. He then instinctively backed toward
the bed-room door to escape by that egress. He
could not. The artist had taken the hasty pre.
caution to lock that too in his flight. The cap-
tain drew a glittering blade, which, whether his
own or borrowed, amply answered all require-
ments. The chase around the centre-table was a
short one. At the fourth heat Mr. Winkfield
turned abruptly upon his pursuer. With one
elevating blow which he succeeded in placing
aider the proboscis of the latter, he knocked
that less agile antagonist into the fire-place atid
a state of insensibility, and escaping by the front.-
door, fled for the apartment of his nearest friend
and sole relative, Mr. Toplady,.

CHAPTER XLVI.
MR. PINKSITT UNDERTAKEs TO DISCHARGE SEVERAL
BUSINESS MATTERS FOR THE JOINT ACCOUNT OF
GaIMsLE, WINKFIELD, AND SELF.
Ma. ToPLADY was not in. Our hero rushed
into -the hall again, where he came in contact
with the equally fermented Pinksitt.
"She is afe in her own room. We escaped
without being observed by any one I" whispered
that agitated gentleman.
"But, good heaven, I didn't !" replied Mr.
Winkfield breathlessly. "Pinksitt, I must leave.
I must leave town at once. Ha suspected and
attacked me. I defended myself, and knocked
hin down, but he'll be here presently, and good
heaven, I must leave, to avoid a public exposure
of the matter, if-nothing else! Adieu. Protect
my honor, bring me word to Plumville, and keep
my destination a secret from every one-,even
my friends !"
The directions were extremely hasty, but they
were sufficient, and in less than an half-hour our
hero, fitisihing his third mile toward Plumville,
sat down ont a rock in a hidden wood at the side
of the road, to recover his physical energies and
momentarily contemplate the extraordinary diffi-
culties into which he had been so unexpectedly
plunged.
We observed that by his promptness of action
in the late contest, his terribly excited antago-
nist had been knocked insensible; we may ob-
serve that he was in a measure knocked sensible
also, for upon recovering, instead of the impiil-
sive vengeance which he had thus attempted to
scekl, he resolved at once upon the systematic.
plan of satisfaction usual im such cases. Yes,
he started for his hotel- there avoiding every
one as well as he could in his rage, he at once
paid his bills, calmly informed his now thorough.
ly alarmed wife that she must pack up at once;
and about the time that Moses reached Plum-
ville on the north he and the other half of his
ungracious establishment had reached the Spa on
the south. From this latter place he failed not
ere he retired to his restless couch to indite a
dreadful challenge to our hero, and inclosing it
in an epistle to Mr. Pinksitt with a brief state-
ment of his grievances received at the hands of
this vile.scoundrel and- bloody pirate, Winkfield,
requested him to undertake the task, peculiarly
restorative to the unhappy artist no doubt, of
becomnig his second. What were the latter
feelings ?  With restless paces in his room he
waited for the light to break, and at early dawn
sneaked out of the hotel with the deadly missive,
and in a hired gig reached tne tavern at Plum-
ville ere the comfort-loving people of that town
were yet stirring. As Moses had too well con-
jectured, the news he thus received was such as
would increase the consternation and disgust
into which; he had already been plunged. The
sleepless night was to be succeed by a day of
darkness and perhaps-I
"But let me calm you. Consider this missiveI
of but little account, my dear Winkfield, or that
it will be matle so by the step which I am aboutI
to take," said the artist, in a voice faltering
with despair. '"And now, adieu, my friend,
adieu !'-
"What step ? Where are you going ? What
are you goim5 to do ?" exclimmed Mosea in as-

tonishment at these words and the manner of
the other.
Can I hesitate without being an infamous
wretch?" replied the artist. "Is it not for me,
for me that your life has already been endan-
gered ? Is it not for me I'hat she, infatuated as
she is, is about to lose honor, fortune, and rep-
utation at the hands of her injured husband ? Is
it not by me that he, a gentleman of honor and
gallant marine, has been injured and outraged ?"
"Oh ! do not feel so guilty !" cried Moses,
with emotion, "for you are not, are you ?"
1"And to-morrow without doubt you would-yes,
it is right. My existence belongs to Josephine, and
I will offer it to her-my honor to you, and I
will sacrifice it for your safety. Either stay and
avow all, if she be already repelled by her hus-
band, and receive at his hands the fatal punish-
ment which I merit, or fly with her to some
strange country, there to linger in wretched ob-
scurity and endeavor to atone for the folly into
which we have been inadvertently drawn P"
"Silence !" cried Moses convulsively. " That
is, be calm. Let us endeavor to preserve our
equanimity at this terrible moment. You can
do neither the one nor the other. Either step
would be to the lady'  dishonor, and besides that,
you haven't money enough to fly with!
"No ! my friend !' said the artist despondent.
ly. "But what matters lucre in a case where
honor and character are in question ?"
"I would lend you some," said Moses forget-
fully. "But no, no! never, never! Listen to
me. The fatal attachment between you and this
wretched female is not what has been discovered
at all. It is I the captain suspects I To clear
myself I would have to betray both you and his
wife, unless I could sit down and calmly reason
with him on his absurd suspicion of me. I'll sit
down and reason with him, Pinksitt !"
" But he will not listen to reason. Good God!
I know him too well!"
* Eh 2" said Moses in concern, starting up in
bed.
"Never !"
"Then he deserves to be shot, and I will fight
him I I am opposed to duels, but I will fight
this one !" exclaimed Moses, striking the pillow
beside iivn with a tremendous blow. "Besides
that, there is no alternative. I must, by heaven !"
To say he did not feel it was possible that an
encounter might not be necessary, would be de-
nying him the ordinary porptions of humanity.
But still as he had no exact notion as to how it
could be avoided, we must accord much admi-
ration to the magnanimity of his decision. The
artist was overcome.
"My friend I my dear Winkfield I" said he,
rising desperately. "The time is elapsing. I
must leave you. I will see that you are protect.
ed in this matter, as your disinterestedness de-
serves. It shall not be said that such friendship
as yours will be unremembered by me !"
He tore himself with a fervent embrace from
the magnanimous Moses, who had been suddenly
struck with the premonition that he was going to
feel very disagreeable. The next forenoon, the
artist was returning to Saratoga from a pleasant
visit to the dire Captain Grimble at Blallston, in
which he had been led to believe that all hope of
stopping the affair was dissipated. Hie found
that by the captain's order, the servants of the


104                              MR. WINKFIELD.
latter had taken bodily possession of his hair- selfish being who asks you to sacrifice me in this
brained spouse, and carried her by force to her way ?  Tell me I"
home in New York; that the captain had already "I must go 1"1
broken seven chairs, three tables, and as many  "Ah ! tell me; is it Mr. Winkfield?" continued
Ballston waiter's heads in his distracted fury, and she, lowering her voice impressively.
the entire Sabbath-day previous with numberless -  "Yes ! yes. But it is of the utmost importance
oaths. In vain had the unhappy Pinksitt endea- that the matter be kept secret and-"
vored to demonstrate the improbability of the  "Ah I I know. It has something to do with
wife's having been in Mr. Winkfield's room, by that letter which the miserable, guilty man left
stating he was there himself about the period al- in your room and which betrayed his wretched
luded to. The dreadful handkerchief was sufficient relations with-with, heavens another person's
to nullify his efforts. With that handkerchief, the wife !"
inexorable ancient mariner intended a grand theat-  " Yes. It is with that fatal matter, by foolishly
ric coup of vengeance on the battle-field. He pur- becoming involved in which, he is now only too
posed waving it as a sort of white black-fiag, and well punished 1" continued the artist, endeavoring
then using it as wadding for the numerous bullets to relieve his feelings.
with which heintended toperforate our rascally he-  "PunishedI It is right.  He merits it, the
ro'sperson. Theartist desperately consentedto con- wretched being and profligate " said the young
tinue as his friend, and then left, under pretense lady.
of immediately meeting the second of Moses.    "But-but his existence is at stake !" contin-
His last hope was gone.. He had not entertained ued the artist, irritated by these weighty compli-
Moses's suggestion of submitting the affair to Mr. ments to our hero. "A duel may-"
Barnard, for he intended that Moses should nked  "A duell"
no second. Yes! he would choose the loneliest  "Yes, and it is my duty to endeavor to pre-
spot he could find for the field. He would ac- vent it."
company the captain thither, and cause Moses to  "You will be shotI One of the pistols may
meet them there. Once there, he would himself go off, and-O heavens I I'll go straight and tell
avow all, request Moses's aid as his own second, the magistrates I"
and take the punishment he merited from the    "Great God I no!" said the artist fervently.
hands of the husband. Being blotted from exist- "No, I warn you, Agnes.  Now that I have in-
ence by the latter would only be too welcome to trusted it to you, let no one know of this in the
him. le made his will in his pocket-book on slightest particular. No one l Remember, I
the way, leaving all the pictures he had wrought charge youI1"
to the United States government, to be hung in  The longest time usually known for a woman
the rotunda of the national capitol, a lock of to keep a secret is, we believe, twenty-four hours.
hair to Agnes and Moses each, and his wardrobe The one which the artist, with a lover's infatua-
to the worthy Irish janitor of the studio buildings, tion, thus intrusted to his Agnes, she kept seven
who had been, at -many periods of artistic need hours and twenty minutes. At the end of that
during a long series of years, his generous finan- period she nervously divulged it in strict confi-
cial friend.                                 dence to her father. Her father felt it to be his
He proceeded to select the field, a pasture duty to seek Mr. Toplady at once, and with the
adjoining an obscure village, three miles distant information put a stop to the terrible alarm into
from Plumville. Captain Grimble could remove which the latter had been thrown by the sudden
with him to the village hotel the night before, disappearance and prolonged absence of his
and Moses could ride over from his retreat at nephew. Mr. Toplady at once practically con-
Plumville in the morning.  The field was well suited with Mr. Barnard, Mr. Titman, and the
chosen, for it was sequestered from the road, and proprietor of the hotel, and all four started off to
almost surrounded by rugged and thickly-wooded the nearest justice of the peace, to put John Doe,
hills. At seven in the evening, every arrange- Richard Roe, Mr. Winkfield, Mr. Pinksitt, and
meant had been made for the deadly meeting every body else connected with the deadly project
thereat at five on the following morning, without inder immediate and heavy bonds to keep from
other intended witnesses than the single second violating the peace as against each other, and the
and such native birds of ill-omen as might be people of the State of New-York generally. In
hovering about the spot at the time.         vain Mr. Barnard tried to dissuade the others
In less than an half-hour after he had arrived from this nonsensical idea. He already felt much
at his hotel in Saratoga from the discharge of injured by Moses's slight in not seeking his aid,
these melancholy duties, and in consequence of or at least inviting him to witness the combat.
his efforts to appear nonchalant, his friend, the  " It is all cursed foolishness," remonstrated he.
fair belle of Long Island, began to conjecture that "They have secreted themselves. You can not
he was suffering severely from an acute pain in find them,-even if you do get a magistrate. Bet-
some part of his physical frame. In less than an ter occupy your time in endeavoring to find out
hour, she discovered that he was not, and at once where it is going to be. We may be in time to
began to'exhibit mingled symptoms of a woman's see it. I think it is a shame for Winkfield to
curiosity and a lover's panic.,            treat me in this shabby way. But I'll be there
"0 dear ! Edmund, what is the matter? Why, .yet I"
how pale ou are I Heavens I you tremble. Oh I  The irregular propensities of men are generally
ar -oui daner?"                         put to beneficial account by the wise dispensations
arNo, ino aPshaw ! it is nothing," replied the of Providence. It was through the profound
artist forcedly. " The fact is, my dear Agnes, reasoning and indefatigable search, prompted by
I have to be' absent a day or two for--for a Mr. Barnard's eccentric motives,- that Mr. Top.-
fried."                                    lady and the peace officers succeeded toward day.-
"But you shan't go. Send papa. Who is the light next morning in discovering undoubted

131

MR. WINKFIELD.                     105

traces of the place of meeting, perhaps, in time,
by furious driving, to avert the deadly conflict.
The sheriff prudently summoned aposse comitatus
of five respectable citizens living adjacent to his
office, and the whole party swelled by a volunteer
surgeon in the person of the apothecary's appren-
tice, and by fourteen loafers from different parts
of the village, who somehow had mysteriously
obtained wind of the affair, started off in wagons
to the place; Mr. Toplady being very nervous,
Mr. Titman very cold, and Mr. Barnard very afraid
that they would not be in time. The latter had
become so irritated at the delay, caused by the
prudential measures of the shertff, as to repeat-
edly express to that worthy officer, his desire to
knock his head off for him. Though how that
was going to expedite matters, we leave the read-
er to conjecture.
CHAPTER XLVII.
THE LITTLE SETTLEMENTT BETWEEN OUR HERO,
CAPTAIN GRIMBLE AND A THIRD PARTY, WHO
THRUSTS HIMSELF INTO THE MATTER IN HAND
ON HIs OWN ACCOUNT.
IT is said that in times of great danger, with
the prospect of extermination before a person's
discernment, the faculty of memory is unusually
active, and even the smallest events of one's pre-
vious career, and particularly those of a peaceful
and placid nature, are called in rapid succession
before the consciousness. As Moses bade, per-
haps, a lasting adieu to the quiet town of Plum-
ville, and drove along in his solitary ride toward
the place of meeting, he remembered many
scenes of his previous life, especially of his early
childhood, which probably would not have been
otherwise easily recalled. The little generous
sharing of.molasses candy and peanuts, which had
so often delighted his infantile being at school,
the applause of his friends at gaining the first
prize for spelling, the Saturday holiday visits to
the woods in company with Joe, the stable-boy-
were among the number of these pleasing recol-
lections. Speculations on that mysterious, in-
scrutable subject of a future life also filled his
mind, and the various perplexing doctrines of
Stoics, Peripatetics, Christians, Jews, and Moham-
medans, passed in rapid succession. Even the
old horse before him shared with him his pen.
siveness, and fell into a gloomy meditation upon
the rude manner in which he had been torn from
his oats, and the unseemly hour at which he was
called upon to put his muscles into requisition.
At last as our hero turned into-a lonely by-road,
according to the directions of the artist, he des-
cried that person in front of him awaiting his ap-
proach. Every thing had been arranged by the
forlorn painterin an adjoining field. The inex-
orable captain was there, brim-full of increased
wrath, and the most powerful microscope in ex-
istence could in vain succeed in revealing the
smallest hope of avoiding the conflict. Moses
led his horse into an embowered thicket, and
tied him. How he envied that honest hackney's
lot at that moment I --The prospect of -spending
a further day upon this earth, in feeding upon
inferior timothy, and being driven thirty miles
a day, by unfeeling pleasure-seekers, seemed
heaven to him compared with his prospective

destiny. He took a furtive moment's opportunity
to essay to dissipate the involuntary agitation of
his system, and followed the speechless artist 'n
silence to the pasture. At one end thereof, near
a little hillock, was his dreadful antagonist, walk-
ing impatiently up and down, and in An adjoining
field at the side, was a bull, who had been
roused from his dewy lair, and stood in sleepy as-
tonishment collecting his faculties, and gazing at
the intrusion. No other specimens of vitality en-
livened the scene.
" Wha--where's Barnard ? Where is my-
friend ?" asked Moses of the artist.
" Never mind. He's not necessary. I'll-I'll
see to every thing. Every thing will be right I"
replied the artist, in much greater agitation than
Moses.' "Cheer up. Every thing will be made
straight directly. You'll see I"
Moses internally agreed with the speaker. He
felt confident that something or somebody would
be made straight directly, but he did not know
whether he would be the one left to see it.
"Good GodI That fatal handkerchief!" cried
the artist. "He has at last brought out, and is
waving the handkerchief she left in your room.
Oh! howl hate to see it I The wretch has been in-
sanely nursing it in his bosom, as if it were the
dearest object of his affections on earth, instead
of a badge of shame, as he is going to make it,
for himself."
"But what is he waving it for?" asked Moses.
" He's insane, crazy !" replied the artist. "It is
to show that he defies you, thd laws of his country,
and his God! The d--d wretch I"
The marine was undoubtedly full of the fire
of unquenched jealousy, for he still continued to
madly toss the unfortunate article of his wife's
wardrobe-in the air as our hero advanced into
the field. But if he was insane with jealousy,
there was another being near him, who had been
gradually working himself into a similar state.
The rights and prerogatives of feeding in one's
own pastures, is one of the fundamental prince.
ples of bovine as well as human nature, and
moreover, it is just as worthy an object of excit-
ing the passions, as the marital rights of the
latter. Besides that, bulls don't like to have
things waved in the air before them. It obscures
their vision, causes a rush of blood to their heads,
and a simultaneous rush of the owner of the
head, upon the ofending object. With one
dreadful snort and bound, lashing his sides in his
new fury, the adjacent animal butted down the
intervening fence, and charged down directly
upon the heedless captain,
"Save yourself! Save yourself!" cried our
generous hero in alarm, as he observed the terrific
bull's tearing pace and corkscrew tail.
It was a small field, Moses and the artist
threw themselves into the jungle on the side, and
turning in hasty agitation, they saw the. bull
come in contact with the captain, just as the
latter had hurriedly stooped to carry off the case
of weapons lying upon the ground near him.
He was too late. The case of instruments was
knocked from his hands to a distance of twenty
feet, and the captain himself was knocked com-
pletely over the fence near him into a scrub-bush,
leaving the temporary supply of breath he had
in the field from which he was so summarily
ejected. The bull triumphantly snorted, tossed
his horns, and thcn retreated. Moses and Mr.


106                              MR. WINKFIELD.
rinksitt broke their way around through the of the bull, sufficiently to turn his attention again
thicket to the captain. They found him insen- to the greater injury which he had conceived his
sible. He still firmly clutched in one of his moral nature had received from our hero. For
hands the fatal handkerchief. The artist stoop- once in his life, the latter felt inclined to wink at
ed and took it from his grasp.              the illustrious use of mendacity, for beside feel-
"Good heavens! we are saved ." cried the ing it to be a stern military necessity, he felt that
Artist in sudden agitation.  "Even if the bull his antagonist would be cheated-only into his
hasn't killed him! He will succumb on this !" own happiness. How weak a being is the man of
ha"Gracious I But isn't it our duty to try and jealous nature I With the proof of the handker-
restore the poor man ?11 exclaimed the humane chief gone, the captain was brow-beaten and
Moses, supposing the artist's words referred to bullied out of any reliance upon his youthful
the probable extermination, or at least perma- spy's statements, by the now thoroughly indig.
nt-nt disability of his antagonistt, nant artist.' The idea of a man's, impugning his
nen dsaptin ofehis eyes Moses bent wif' honor by bribery, and attempting t  ke
over him and endeavored to restore him to an his own life miserable throughithe hired espion-
erect posture. "Where am IP" said he faintly. agre of negroes and ragged urchins! By such in-
"Here!" put in the artist opportunely. dignant ejaculations as these of the artist, by his
"Here among your friends, Captain Grimble. suggestions of the liability to :inistake or the
I am your friend. Mr. Winkfield is your friend!" temptation to youthful natures o'f fraudulently
"Eli ?" asked the marine, confusedly. "I am  obtaining rewards, by" the lofty and innocent
the victim of a conspiracy "                bearing of Moses, and, above all, by the fear of
h  eNono a" continued the artist. "You will increasing the intensity of a prospective domestic
be better presently. Only scratched a little, and row, when he returned home, the captain was
you'll soon get your breath in trim. Come, sit up, led to back entirely out of his suspicions.,
Captain  "                                    "Young man, blast your eyes! It is all your
"I1was taken midships. If I am not the vic- fault !" said he, addressing our hero.
tim of a foul conspiracy,I'm damned '" said the  "How my fault ?" asked Moses in astonish-
latter, raising himself up in a weak manner. ment.
D-n their eyes. '9-tWhy didn't you tell mn,,inksitt had been
" He's recovering.  le's all right.  He's with you  ts
commencing to swear once more," said the      "But I told you myself Captain, I had been
artist., "And all can be explained now."    there," interrupted the artist.  "You were in
"What?" asked our hero, whose misgivings such a rage you wouldn't believe me."
were being renewed at the sight of the captain's  " Well, you didn't say any thing about your
recoverybloody handkerchief. It is your fault too. It is
If the ebullition of expletives was to be taken  the fault of both of you. But never mind. I
as a sign of restoration to consciousness and respect your honor and bravery, young man.
bodily soundneFs the Captainebegan to recover Shake hands, and we will hunt up and kill that
very fast. For full ten minutes thereafter, be d-ned bull together, by - 1"
caused Moses'sears to resound with his naval  Notwithstanding the general agitation to which
anathemas, and enchained his emotional nature his being had been subjected during the progress
with astonishment at their novelty and expres- of the recent events, Moses cordially grasped the
siveness. As they were mainly directed against proffered hand of his late antagonist, and per-
the agent, instead of the principal of the sup- mitted his own to be shaken by the eccentric
posed conspiracy, however, Moses felt a tempo- and gratified mariner. In less than three minutes
raryreisrance.                          thereafter, as they were amicably'drinking from
"Captain Grimble,"continued the artist. "You a flask together, the two combatants and the
have been the victim of a foul conspiracy I Of common second were surrounded and arrested by
circumstances and designing spiesvc"        the fervent sheriff and his posse. The happy
My port-side is badly injured," continued the solution of the difficulty was at once imparted to
captain in marine soliloquy.  "And my stern the crowd, much to the* relief of the worthy
entirely carried away by the cowardly lubber Ppeace-officer, Mr. Toplady and Mr. Titman, and as
"rLyCaptainrimble I That handkerchief you much to the dissatisfaction of Mr. Birnard, the
found in Mr. Winkfield's room, is one I left apothecary's apprentice, and the rear-guard of
there l It is mine 1" continued the artist in a village loafers. After vain entreaties from Mr.
loud, distinct voice.                       Barnard to be permitted to place the men, to see-
The captain's attention was again called from  how they would look after a shot or two, accom-
the bull by the artist's vehement manner. He panied by an.offer to get up that interesting spec-
stared at the latter for a moment, and then utter- tacle himself with any of the parties present, and
ed tIe Saxon synonym of that short but sublime an enthusiastic request from the ambitious stu-
word, which Victor Hugo's captain did on the dent of medical science to have the professional
lost field of Waterloo.0                    privilege of bleeding Captain Grimble, the whole
"Your handkerchief !" exclaimed our hero in party prepared to start back to Saiatoga.  Mr.
confusion.                                  Barnard, still seeing nothing but ignobility in the
"Yes. How luckyI It is one of mine she stupid termination of the affair, and feelingly re-
happened to have borrowed-remember, I left it proaching Moses with the lack of friendship he
in your room!" whispered the artist hastily. had shown toward him in the matter, magnan-
"Remember it was I who left it in your room!" mously, offered to pitch into the sailor and thrash
And this and other energetic prevarications he him on behalf of our hero; but as the latter felt
continued to roar and stun in the captain's ears obliged to decline this kind offer, the pugnacious
the insults and inri s recein from the horns q uarrel wth ted rimser the elef that

MR. WINKFIELD.

the efforts of these guardians of the peace were
only a letsand hindrance to the fireeand enit
ened pleasures of the community, and with the
intimation that this one had, in improper cu
riosity, insinuated his nose into the present affair,
he more than once, on the way back, expressed
to the indignant officer an extreme desire to pull
that particular and well-defined organ of know-
ledge for him. By the time they had reached the
confines of Saratogra, the irritated gentleman had
got to defying the whole posse conitat us, loafers in-
cluded, and though( h they rather had the advantage
of him in number, there is no doubt he would
have commenced summary operations on them, if
he had not been prevented by the entreaties and
commands of Moses, Mi. Toplady, idTitian.
Suffice it for us to say, in conclusion of this
matter, that it forced our hero to shorten his in-
tended stay at the watering place. Notwithstand.
ing the earnest efforts of the parties to hush it
up, it at once became known, and our hero be-
came the lion of the place, not for his real posi-
tion in the matter, but the very one of which the
captain had suspected hun. People were burst-
ing with curiosity to see him; the young ladies
(in bevies) sought his society and admired his
lofty bearing, and a number of gentlemen, who
had a chronic indifference fdr their spouses, re-
peatedly expressed a desire to introduce the new
Don Giovanni nalgre lui to the bosom of their
families, by invitations to ride with them, dine
with them, and visit them in the city. -
All this was extremely repugnant to Moses,
especially when lie thought of the extreme pro-
bability of these events and this new phase in his
reputanon reaching the ears of Miss Wagbull.
He resolved to hasten his acceptance of the re-
peared invitation of her father to visit, during
the season, his country-place in Vermont, on the
beautiful banks of the Connecticut, and once
there, to disclose, with Mr. Pinksitt's permission,
the true facts of the case. As that gentleman
felt his happiness was secured, as far as freedom
from his late relations was concerned, he was too
grateful to make any objection.  Though upon
his stating his doubts as to what he should next
hear from the eccentric Mrs. Grimble, Moses sug-
gested lie would do so only in case of necessity.
To those who take an interest in the peculiar
position of that lady, we may as well state that
the worst of her case was over. She had learned
that the artist really loved the country girl, and
that was enough for her.  To be sure, she was
mad and furious, and several times thereafter
rashly threatened an avowal to both her hus-
band and Agnes, but she no longer -felt -the
same energetic feelings toward the painter she
formerly had experienced, and she was now en-
abled by the eccentric strength of her character
to permanently divert her feelings and thoughts
from this somewhat romantic episode in her life,
to the more proper interests of legitimately and
fashionably ruling her own husband.
CHAPTER XLVIII.
MR. WINKFIELD AND HIS FRIENDS PROcEED TO MA,
WAGnULL's COUNTRY-SEAT.
0ua hero's friends had been so often enter-
tained by Mr. Wagbull in the city, that they grate-.

fully resolved he should not sufferaforshaek of
.society at his sequestered country-seat. Leaving
the temporary pleasures of Saratoa the three
high spirits started with Moses upon ai afternoon
train toward Mr. Wagbull's estate. Upon tme
train there were the usual characters-country-
men with large feet and women with small babies;
comieicial travelers, running for their employ-
0ers, including one who was running away from
Ihis; a marble proprietor thinking of the iuiex-
haustible irok in his quarry, a dyspeptic patient
thiniiigof the iiiexhaustible rock in his stomach ;
and( above ifl, the inquisitive Yankee, on the seat
next behind you, who, after having used up with
his qutaions the fat man on the seat beside him,
turns his attention to you for the rest of the voy-
age. At the Castleton depot, the antiquated por-
ter of the village hotel, with a horse aid cart, ap-
parently-older than himself, transported to the
tavern for the night our party and their baggage,
ingeniously overcoming his atmiinal's obstinate an-
tipathy to locomotion by tying his nose in a bag
of oats, and causing the deluded creature to chase
them. The proprietor of the hotel was enjo3 ing
the gentle game of euchre in the bar-rooin, and
that lie might not neglect the village cronies with
whom he was thus engaged, left the attendance
of our party entirely to the porter. Owing to the
chilly dampness of the evening, a brilliant fire had
been humanely lighted for these worthies upon
the bar-room hearth, but none in the parlor,
another proof that the landlord's regard was for
the friends who thus assisted him in enjoyi-g life
at ls own expense, rather than ffor the guests
who assisted him to enjoy it at theirs. Moses
occupied the time until nine ,in writing in his
chamber, and Mr. Toplady in reading a Ledger
of the previous December by the fire in the bar-
room, where Mr. Barnard had forced himself into
the card-party and astounded the entire company
by winning every game. Mr. Titman undertook
a walk in the twilight with a bottle-nosed, white-
hatted native, who was evidently suffering from a
depression of spirits, for the professional purpose
of examining the ancient church, and other speci-
mens of Yankee architecture in the neighborhood.
From this, howeve-, lie shortly returned, having
been om'ercomne by the gloom of his cieeroie, who,
over his wife's tombstone in- a lonely corner of
the churchyard,'had asked for a small subscrip-
tion toward renewing the inscription thereon,
ani intimated suicide in case of disappointment.
Whereat Mr. Titan, thinking murder more pre-
sumptive, had abruptly fled from the spot. After
tea, more village habitues of the tap dropped in,
ostensibly to watch the game of cards, but really
to await the opportunity of being invited to drink
by the popular landlord. Upon these occasions,
which were quite numerous during the evenimmg,
they invariably endeavored to give an accidental
appearance to the consummation of the longed-for
event, by becomniig suddenly interested in, and
laughing boisterously at some anecdote, which
had passed unnoticed before. Presently one of
these worthies, reminded by the clock of his con-
jugal promise to be at home in an hour, irritatedly
bewails the miseries of married life, and after a
short and touching silence among them, another
hepcedflow sardonically makes the remark:
gaJoe Fnge' gIn viso jmed to tm Thonmpson
emboldened by these attacks upon the marriage


109                        -     MR. WINK
relation, perpetrates his witticism thereon, and is p
quiet for a minute or two in his efforts to appear t]
unaffected by it, though swelling visibly from its h
internal effect, and looking around at various mdi- b
viduals to observe its result upon them. Finally,
unable to contain himself longer, he laughs violent-
ly, and rising, goes outside for the purpose of recov- v
ering himself. Then two or three of the henpecked a
ones make the tremendous resolve that they will
not go home till they get ready. Then there is aT
pause in the game and another drink is taken.
Then warmed. by the spirits imbibed, the jovial t
host takes a chew of tobacco, and commences toa
alternately expectorate and sing, in persistent I
monotony, a pathetic ballad about some unfortu-v
nate maiden, the whole party joining regularly in (
the chorus, which is some facile air of the day, t
married to the immortal verse of
"Dodle, dodle, dodle, chip chum,
Tchl, tchooral lay lay V"
At the conclusion of this affecting performances
Moses, who has seen enough of village enjoyments,4
in company with Mr. Titman, does what Mr. Top-
lady did two hours before, and retires, leaving Mr.
Barnard actively engaged with great prospect of
success, in bringing about a fight between two old
fellows, who have got to disputing-about the rela-
tive weight and beauty of their respective pigs.
Finally, the September night in rayless majesty
from her ebon throne looks down upon a slum-
bering world.
The next morning, after a delightful country
breakfast, Brunswick arrived with the gentle-
men's thick wardrobe, and the party then resumed
the railroad for Chester, the nearest village to
Mr. Wagbull's country-seat. As the train was
not very remarkable for speed, Mr. Barnard en-
deavored to relieve its tedium, by humorous re-
quests to the indignant conductor for the privilege
of getting off and picking some apples, promising
to cut him off at the next bend, by smoking weeds
in the baggage-car with Brunswick, and by riding
upon the engine. Mr. Toplady -and Mr. Titman
went to sleep, and Moses looked out upon the
scenery. At a station where a freight train was
awaiting the right to the road, Moses was much
surprised by observing his diplomatic friend, Mr.
De St. Beaut6, stand upon the roof of one of its
cars in company with a brakeman. As. soon as
he saw Moses, the attache immediately descended
and entered the passenger train.
"Ha! ha! You thought I was in a curious
place, eh?  But secrecy, my dear sir, secrecy.
I've been to Canada, on this reciprocity hash,
and was quietly on my way back," said that lively
individual.
"It is quite singular we should meet at this
distance from the city, isn't it ?" said Moses.
"Not at all! The first time I met Lord Strat-
ford was in.Paris on the service, and I met him
the second time on a mountain in Afghanistan as
a tourist. He had ascended one side of the moun-
tain, and I the other. He sat down on one side
of the peak to cut a troublesome corn on the right
foot, and I was engaged with one on my left, when
we discovered each other. Positive fact, sir."
" By heaven ! But you have traveled in Asia ?"
continued Moses hastily.
" Traveled! I have been thirty-three times on
the overland route to India. 'I was drowned in
the Red Sea once, thrown on shore, my body

FIELD.
kicked up by natives, robbed, carried on a camel
hirty miles and sold to an Arabian medical phi-
osopher before I came to. Ha! ha! you don't
elieve the story, I suppose ?"
"No, I don't," replied Moses.
"Neither would the Arab philosopher who
wanted to have the villagers stone me to death,
)s a lying Christian, so he could get my body !"
" How did you get out of it ?" asked Mr. Tit-
man curiousif.
"I brought my diplomatic training and logic to
bear. I denied I was vitber liar or Christian,
and offered to prove it to him. And he said he'd
et me off,ifI did. So I told him if I said I
was a Christian, I was a liar, or else I'd be no
Christian in saying so, for according to his doc-
trine, all Christians were liars.- And if I said I
was a liar, I was no Christian, or else I would.be
lying in saying so, or words to that effect. I
told that to Motley and Sir Frederick Spruce, in
Austria. We were taking an omelet together,
souffpee au rhum. They laughed so, that they
couldn't eat any more, and o-dered me to take
it off."
"What ! The omelet?"
"What was I saying ? I mean they ordered it
off-and took me up on the veracity of my
anecdote."
"You know Sir Frederick well?" asked Mr.
Toplady.
"Intimately-like you, a little, eh?   Old
bachelor-never seen any one he liked, or any
one that liked him, ha! ha l" replied the diplo-
mat vivaciously.
" I met him once in Washington, sir. I am
a mere acquaintance, sir, and as such, I do not
feel authorized in alluding familiarly to his attri-
butes, sir!" said Mr. Toplady, with great severity.
"Neither do II Any more than I would to yours,
for instance. I know the respect due to age, of
course, sir. But the fair sex, you know, will look
for personal beauty. You are aware of their fas-
tidiousness, no doubt, from your own experience,
eh ?",
That Mr. Toplady's indignation was materially
increased by these remarks, appeared in the look
of searching intensity which he bestowed on the
jocular diplomat thereat. As it seemed entirely
lost upon the latter, however, it gradually disap-
peared from Mr. Toplady's countenance.
"By the way, how far down do you go to-day ?"
asked the attache, of Moses carelessly.
"We are going to stop at Chester," replied
Moses.
" Singular thing! Another coincidence; I was
gomg to stop there too I"
Here the conductor collected the tickets, and
Mr. De St. Beaut6 produced his.
" This is a pass for freight trains only !" said
the conductor, examining it.
"Very well, you can come back presently and
I'll settle the fare, I am engaged in conversation
now. Yes, I thought of stopping a day or two
at Chester, Winkfield."
"I am happy to hear it. We are going to a
country-seat near there-and-"
" We may meet again before I leave. Yes !"
continued the diplomat. " Though I've sent my
baggage with my servant as far as Springfield-.
And a most amusirig thing, just before Ilft, I1
changed my pantaloons and sent them, pocket-
book and all, ahead. Ha ! ha ! I haven't a cent

MR. WIN
with me, a diplomat in distress!I By the way,
suppose you favor me with twenty dollars for the
moment, Winkfield."     .
"I will, if I have it," replied Moses, with a
momentary serious air, "Certainly."
" Exquisite practical joke on myself, eh ?" con-
tinued the diplomat, laughing vociferously as he
took the money. "Ha! ha! I pant for my
pants! I long to go along !"
Moses did not feel much inclined to laugh at
these witticisms, and as for the exquisite practical
joke, if it was played on any one, it appeared to
be on himself. However, he now recovered his
feelings, an4l listened with much philosophical
pleasure to his lively acquaintance, who continued
to rattle on with his diplomatic. anecdotes or to
criticize the peculiarities of the various passen-
gers in the car. "See that unpleasant old gen-
tleman over there quarreling with his neighbor
about having the window up. He is a retired
merchant, with nothing to do but to go about
and fight in this way to pass his time. And that
individual just ahead of him with the whiskers.
He is a Bostonian, drawing his head into his
shoulders and trying to pass himself off as an
Englishman without any neck. I have a great
knowledge of nationalities, sir. That old lady
there, with the cat shut up in a flower-pot, I'd
swear her father was a Scotchman, and her
mother a North of Ireland woman, by the way
she sneezes, taking snuff!"
And so he went on until the train arrived at
Chester, pleasing Moses very much with his
judgment of human nature, and his diplomatic
experience, while his lively exaggerations and
sociability made him a very agreeable companion
to the others. Even Mr. Toplady felt authorized
to smile at his familiarities, as long as they were
not with his own properties and attributes.
Mr. Wagbull and the Irish boy were awaiting
them at the depot. The former greeted them
heartily, and the latter grinned with pleasure at
seeing our hero. Upon learning that Mr. De St.
Beauty was 'an acquaintance of Moses, and at
leisure, Mr. Wagbull insisted upon the pleasure
of his society, too, at the country-seat, and the
affable attach, without much reluctance, con-
sented to furnish it at once. They passed over
a beautiful road winding along the bank of the
river, and at last came in sight of the fine man-
sion of Mr. Wagbull, placed.on a terrace at some
distance from the stream, with a lawn in front, a
grove-of trees at one side, and a commanding
view on the other, according to the true rules of
landscape art.  The house was of the class
styled follies, though perhaps, the only folly con-
nected with it, was the proprietor's supposition
that the admiration of his neighbors would over-
come their natural propensity to the billingsgate
of envy in talking about it. Winding up to the-
terrace, Moses saw ladies and gentlemen upon
the lawn, and, in particular, one beautiful face
which sent a thrill of joy to his heart.
-CHAPTER XLIX.
Moss AND HIS ParzNDS RocEED To nm goy Tnn
-HOSPITALITY OP "THE FOLLY. '
How muck more delightful, thought Moses,
in observing the gayety which reigned at " The

FIELD.                                 109
Folly," how much more delightful to pass the
summer in this rational manner than to expend
it in the innumerable dress-parades of fashionable
watering-placesI A healthy excitement is ob-
tained, to which there is no reaction of lassitude
or spleen, in the wooing of nature instead of art
and to a person of his feelings we may add,
what ecstasy is there greater or more tranquil
withal, than that which is offered in the walks
amid nodding groves, the mossy seat beneath the
shady beech-tree with the dearest of friends, or
the proud defense of the timid female against
the sinister-looking cows. And so thought Mr.
Titman, as his eyes met the glances of a tall
young lady, a distant relation of Miss Wagbull.
As for Mr. Barnard, the promised shooting and
fishing, the stables and capital dinners, furnished
food enough for his hopes. But we are sorry to
say that Mr. Toplady did not partake of the others'
satisfaction.  Miss De Pompenkops, the proud
descendant of the ancient Dutch horticultural
aristocracy, was one of the guests, and not oily
she, but also the easy, tranquil Mr. Beckman-
bobuts.   The very first sight  Mr. Toplady
caught, on his entrance into the grounds of the
house, was that of Mr. Beekman delicately ad-
justing a field-glass to enable her to examine a
horse-fly in the air, which she had taken to be
an eagle, swooping from his mountain eyrie. We
will not say what his exact sensations were at
that moment. Suffice it to say, that he com-
menced at once looking through a magnifying-
glass too, the distorting instrument of jealousy,
despair, murder, madness, suicide, and general
dizziness of morals. Miss Do Pompenkops re-
ceived him upon the piazza quite cordially, and the
fosterer of the noble whiskers courteously shook
his hand; but it seemed to him as though the
reception of the one were the pitying friendship
for misplaced hope, and the other, the magnani-
mous friendship of successful rivalry.  Mr. St.
Beauty met. with general favor. .He had in-
stantly ingratiated himself with Mr. Wagbull by
his profound knowledge of international relations
and if lie, felt his tenure was uncertain in any
place, he was aware the one he was in at the mo-
ment was just as good as any other. Etigaging
manners and self-possession are but small social
weapons, compared with the great gun of per-
sistent flattery. This is no gift, but an acquire-
ment. Every one is certainly satirical at times
and precisely the same formulas are used in com-
pliment as in sarcasm, but the one is genial and
the other is not; Mr. St. Beauty, with great good
sense, concluded it was just as easy and vastly
better to flatter than to ridicule. In particular
was he judicious, in insinuating the possession by
his pleased victims.of faculties and other gifts of
nature which they did not have. His official
travels had stocked his memory-with many
amusing personal anecdotes, he was a fine judge
of cooking, no dish but he knew the name of,
and he seemed a good one of wines. The dis-
play of these accomplishments constitutes half of
the science of diplomacy as viewed by outsiders.
The other half consists in having mysterious
and unintelligible views of public events. And
certainly he here succeeded admirably ; for in
vain did our hero, Mr. Wagbull, or any one else,
essay more than a half-dozena sentences with liini
upon such subjects, before they were completely
overpowered with admiration at, and compelled to


MR. WINKFIELD

withdraw for meditation upon, the wonderful con-
cealment into which he generally managed to
crrry his views. Language with him was the
diplomatic strong-box in which at once to pre-
serve and hide his ideas.
What a sublime scene is a country gentleman's
dinner-table I As words can not describe, we ad.
vise our readers to assist at one. When Moses
took his seat at Mr. Wagbull's board, on the
evening of his arrival, he thought that the god-
dess of plenty and of taste had at last made an
amicable arrangement to appear for once to-
gether. Ile was seated between Miss Wagbull
az d her romantic confident, Miss R'ushton, of Bos-
ton, whose'visit was the result of a pressing en-
treaty of the former, comprised in a short letter
of forty-seven pages, each page presenting the
appearance of a No. 22, Ames's Sieve, No. 1 be-
in" the largest woven size,  The impression
which Moses's appearance and bearing tmade
upon her, had been duly imparted to Miss Wag-
bull at the moment of his arrival, in an agitate:
whisper of the words, " Beautiful creature !"
The grandmother was also present, and the im-
pression which his arrival made upon her, was
now conveyed in another whisper, loud enough
to be heard all over the table, "What !' that
ninny here ?" The aged antagonist had expressly
foregone her customary habit of taking her even-
ing meal in bed, to appear in ovel whelming ma-
j-sty at the table for the purpose of crushing him.
Mr. Wagbull, surrounded by Mr. Toplady, Mr.
St. Beaut6, and others, including the member of
Congress from the district, a portly heavy per-
sonage, was in great glory at the foot, occupying
himself with the-sublime art of carving, and with
discussions of national and foreign affairs.
" What do you think, Mr. S'boaty," said he,
after he had assisted that diplomatic genius to
the wing of a fowl, "of Metternich's doctrines of
government?  You diplomatists are wedded to
t'tc divine right of kings, no doubt, but can the
European governments be compared with the
profound yet simple system which guides the re-
publican in his enlightened views of internal and
international comity, tending to the direct ad-
vancement of the sound civilization of one of the
most enlightened policies, aimed at by one of the
most profotud yet simple systems, which-when
-as I might say-"
' Certainly, sir.  Your views are extremely
correct and chaste, my lord. Pardon me, I mean
my onerouss host," replied Mr. De St. Beaute.
"And if you will but observe, Mr. Wagbull, you
will see from close scrutiny that in these-these
European h'ashes-ha! ha !-there is too much
unnecessary pepper, to use a phrase more usually
applied to the culinarial apartment, ha! ha ! Ia!
First class red is a good- ingredient, but apply
with judiciousiness and stir till well nixed. If
before being cooked, an egg or two well beaten
b-but I forget myself. The rest doesn't ap-
ply, does it? Ha! ha !"
Very good. Very good, indeed," replied thet
worthy host. "But in stating it in a brief and
concise manner, I was somewhat anxious to ob-
tain from one so well versed as you, the senti
ments which you entertain thereupon. In fact,
whether you are for the European or time moren
enlightened American system which-..-"
"Ahi very true. Tlhe Amtericasn system in
more enlightened, perhaps. But don't undrstanm

me as rejecting the European. No, no, indeed
Prejudice of birth, you know, must have its way
Old tastes must be suited, ha! ha! I believe
what's his name, Metternichs himself, has observed
that in his essay or disquisition upon the nature
of the fundamental principlesI",
"And he is wrong, sir," interrupted the mem-
ber of Congress, with flabby impressiveness.
" As a man and an American, sir, I deprecate the
European system, whether advocated by him or
any other man, as extremely pernicious to liberty,'
sir, and pronounce it a Machiavellian nuisance to
humanity, sir. I do."
"Nuisance, sir !  I can not agree with you
upon that point. Not at all. As to its being
pernicious, we must necessarily distinguish !"
"Eli?  But how do you distinguish, sir, and
what ?" asked the member of Congress pom-
pously.
Mr. Barnard was listening to the conversation
with great eagerness. His opinion was, that it
hid already begun to partake of the nature of
what he would desig nate as a "high old discus-
sion,"'and from his looks, it was quite evident he
was much interested in its issue.
" Let us understand each other, sir," continued
the lively diplomatist. "Of course, I would not
undertake to dispute your enlightened views, Sir
Henry, I beg pardon, Me. Buxter. Not at all.
Not at all. Pernicious, I dessay. But a nuisance,
sacre, as a Frenchman, I say no. I will gener.
ously accord you one half of your blarsted posi-
tion."
"Hey?  One half?" said the member of Con-
dress staring at the other. "But permit me to
ask you, sir, what you can think of a system
which-"
" Ahl! that is it. Allow me to recall to your
memory the chapter of the same-same distin-
guished author and diplomatist, Nicks-old Nicks
we young diplomatists call him, ha! ha! Read
the chapter of his work, sir, where he treats of
that point in particular, and, I dessay, you will
see you must grant every one of 'te statements
he proves in it."
"That is so. That is so!" said Mr. Barnard,
rubbing his hands and edging on the eccentric
diplomatist.  "That can't be denied, at least.
(This cockneyfied Frernchman knows as much on
the subject as old Foozle does, at any rate!)"
" But the point! Vhat is the point, sir ? Let
us know what the point is, sir !" exclaimed the
member of Congress, with, perhaps, justifiable
rimpatience.  "I, for one, do not understand what
it is!"
" Ha ! h i! I have no doubt of that," returned
the diplomatist. "You have doubtless forgotten
the chapter or what is more likely, I dessay never
read it. Nonzdjemw/  Allow me to recall the
principal points of that sublime portion of his
Views, where, in quoting .his fellow-cotemporary
-the great and illustrious party, who wrote on
the American system, in reply to his-" .
" Ah ! I eve," continued the member of Con-
gress, looking around.  "At last, I see! De
Toequeville, I presume you refer to, sir !"
"The very person. De Talkwell, as we young.
er diplomatists call him, ha! ha I In reply to his
remarks where Ihe so ably describes thme insstitu-
tio~ns to be such ail snch, you know, in point of
sfact, just as he states, in comes Nicks, excuse my
dI playful abbreviation, and immediately proceeds

t 1

to reply by proving that all institutions of that on, affording great amusement to the other guests
kind are such and such, you know. How ele- as much by'his good-humor as by his voluble re-
gantly that chapter is written! and you must now  lation of personal anecdotes, which Mr. Titan
grant it is unanswerable. I may have changed deemed so interesting as to take furtive notes of
the exact language of both somewhat; but still them, and at which the country gentlemen present
in main I give you the ideas !"             repeatedly punched each other to express their
"You refer to De Tocqueville's general stric- emphatic delight. And as the illustrious member
tures, I presume. Very well; it is just here I of Congress was rapidly getting drunk to console
wish to arrest you."                        himself for his recent exasperation, we may re-
" Eh!" exclaimed the diplomat, with a start.  gard tAe young attAch6 as the cause even of his
"It is upon that head I wish to attack you, enjoyment. In the mean time, at a secure distance
and I think I can refute you."              from the venerable but high-spirited grandmother,
"Oh ! you merely attack me on the head, do Moses was conversing with Bessie's confident,
you?" replied the diplomatist, resuming his Miss Rushton, of Boston, who whispered to him her
warmth.                                     readiness t9 plot with him at a moment's notice,
"Yes, I do. The strictures of De Tocqueville, and proceeded to minutely relate the details of
I grant you, may seem just and impartial, sir ; but four cases of match-making in which she had a
I deny them, deny them in toto, sir !" darkling hand, and of which Moses incidentally
"Very well. What of that. It seems really, learned three resulted in failure, and the fourth
sir, you not only prove nothing yourself, but you in something worse.
can't see that any one else does !  Blarst it !  After a refreshing walk upon the lawn, and a
Sacre ! a very amusing way of reasoning truly !" scamper to the house before a rowdy thunder-
"Allow me to observe, sir," replied the mem- shower, music enlivened the drawing-room. Miss
ber of Congress, rather hastily, "that I know  Wagbull sung a sweet air, Miss Rushton perform-
what I assert, sir,                         ed a brilliant fantasia, and at its close Mr. Tit-
"Very well, I must say, if you know only man who had been lying during the shower, in
what you assert, you know extremely little, sir," suffocated insulation between two feather beds, ap-
replied the diplomatist with increased jocularity. feared modestly at the door with hi rducordeon in
S Ha! ha ! exclaimed Mr. Barnard.       his hand. A general exclamation applauded the
"Very well, very well, sir.  You have cited discovery which he thus made of his accomplish-
certain authorities for your points. Those points ment, and a duet from Norma with Miss Rushton
I deny, and as to your opinions thereon, they are ensued.  The performance was exciting, espe.
easily pulverized, and shedd to atoms, as they cially as it soon resolved itself iito a trial of speed.
will now be by me, sir, t once !" said the mem. Sometimes Mr. Titman was ahead in the contest,
ber of Congress in a rage.                  sometimes the two 'were neck and neck, to use a
"Well, I might put yours in turn through the phrase of the turf, and sometimes the young lady
same-process, if they were not already too small advanced a little, but it ended in favor bf the no-
to be pulverized, ha! ha! I think I have him  cordeonist, the young lady coming in at least four
there !" continued the diplomatist in great pleas. bars behind. Great applause followed the effort,
antry. "I have, I think, properly done his cake and led on by his success, Mr. Titman followed
brown, and frosted it, ha! ha!"             up that by volunteering respecting an old man,
"Ahem. This is dreadful, dreadful, sir. You who had simultaneously become a widower and a
are extremely ignorant, sir, and your European lunatic, an affecting ballad, which Mr. Barnard
prejudices-"                                would not permit the little gentleman to finish, as
"11beg of you, gentlemen," interrupted the he took violent exception to the lues,
host, "moderate ourselvess"
"Your vile, abject admiration of the infamous       "hTe snow Is enray aged head
edicts of despotism, your-"                            But the fre Is in my breast,
" One moment !"   entreated  Mr. Wagbull on the ground that the fire would have certainly
hastily.                                    melted the snow, and the whole thing was not
"Your obsequious groveling, and stipendiary natural. The enjoyment of the dance closed the
enslavement to the yoke of hereditary vassalage, evening, of which not among the least entertain.
accompanied  by  your  blustering assurance  ing features were the gallant but arduous efforts
have--                                      of the country gentlemen present to cut the
"One moment !" roared Mr. Wagbufl in paci- pigeon's wing, to perform the double-shuffle, and
fication. "Mr. Buxter, allow me a gl tss of wine to execute other ancient and intricate figures, all
with you."                                  of which they successfully accomplished with
I was about to observe that any further dis- agonized countenances to the intense diversion
cussion with you would be extremely uninstruc- of the assembly, excepting one or two gentlemen,
tive, sir, very!" said the methber of Congress en- who had never seen the thing before, and were
deavoring to feign composure in this dignified re- taken ill during the performance. Mr. Wagbull
mark, and concealing his rage by heavy draughts also endeavored to revive his old recollections,
from his goblet.                            and might be seen at various times bobbing up
"Ha ! ha! I knew you would give in.  I think and down in his place in the cotillion and smiling
I rather had him, oh ?" said the diplomatist, turn- blandly upon his partner, or courteously hand.
ing to the delighted Barnard. "I roasted his ing her across the set with minuet steps. Bruns-
goose for him, I think. But I had to do it  lie wick assisted Timothy in distributing the ices,
attacked Metternichs. I was frequently at Mrs. and from the number of times he put his hand to
Nicks's soirees when in Europe with the embassy, his face to hide an irrepressible smile, or politely
Fraedsyup fo  h   a  e, you know, Msr. Top- retired- to the hall to laugh, it maybi fre
7. that he also enjoyed the above performances
Atnd so the lively gentleman continued to rattle amazingly. The Irish boy, who was laboring; un-

MR. WINKP4JELD.

111


112

MR. WINKFIELD.

der the belief that our, hero's domestic was a
near relative of the sable Prince of Morocco,
whom he had- seen in a very pretty play at the
Bowery Theater with gold caskets and lots of
shining things in it, looked at him with some
awe, and received the frequent punchings from
him for inattention rather as friendly favors than.
otherwise.
CHAPTER L.
MR. TOPLADY AND MR. TITMAN PENETRATE INTO
HIDDEN BAcK-cOUNTRIEs. THE WAY IN WHICH
THEY SET OUT, AND THE WAY IN WHICH THEY
RETURNED FROM THEIR EXPLORATION.
BAcK from Mr. Wagbull's estate, in a secluded
and sparsely-settled township, there was a beau-
tiful lake to which it was suggested by Mr. Wag-
bull that his guests should pay a day's visit.
There were boats on the pond, owned by a neigh-
boring farmer, who let them to picnic parties,
and to secure these properly prepared for the
day, Mr. Titman volunteered, induced by the hu
morous accounts he had heard of the primitive
habits of the natives, and persuaded Mr. Top
lady, who was disposed to try the effect of ab
sence upon Miss De Pompenkops, to accompan)
him. As the proposed drive was a lengthy an
hilly one, requiring great equine toughness, an
as Mr. Titman intimated to the hostler that h(
was an experienced driver, that official very judi
ciously gave them an animal whose nature h
felt had been properly hardened to such trials
being one which Mr. Wagbull in eccentric human
ity had lately rescued from an omnibus establish
meant in the city. The animal and vehicle no'
stood ready at the piazza, and we question which
of the two stood the stillest. It was a remark
able horse. Not a motion could be detected i
any part of his sytem, and with the exception o
his eyes, he looked more like a grotesque woode
image than a live being. Those organs, however
made up for any deficiency of animation an3
where else. Such a dreadful look, lowering sid
wise at the piazza i That horse was a demon,-onl
awaiting some such opportunity as this to wipe ou
the long series of cruelties and hardships which h
had endured at the hand of man, by wiping ou
those who might be riding behind him. Titma
made several easy witticisms at the "old horse's
expense, at which we might conclude the animL
indulged in a horse-laugh, if that intense look
malignity which lay in the depths of his hal
closed eyes did not utterly forbid it. But to pr
ceed.
The ladies and gentlemen, crowding upon ti
piazza, congratulated the two gentlemen up(
having safely placed -themse.ves and the lu
cheon in the buggy, and the excursionists we
about starting, when Mr. Toplady withheld M
Titman's hand, and, feigning an air of concern
asked, " Will he shy ?" whereupon the air w
rent with laughter from all parties present. Ha
ing accomplished this innocent pleasantry, t
unsuspecting gentleman ordered his compani
to drive off. On the road, Mr. Titman soon I
gan to manifest that he was any thing but an
perienced driver, and Mr. Toplady discovered,
the same time, that the horse not only s,hied, b
seemed to pick out the most dangerous places

the road for that interesting operation. The road
was a very rough one, and in many parts passed
over exceedingly narrow spots, bounded on one
side by deep ravines, and on the other by natural
walls of granite. Even at this early stage, Mr.
Toplady got into a chronic state of alarm, and
more than once expressed a pettish wish that he
had not come, which only seemed to increase Mr.
Titman's incapacity. The horse's mouth was a
very hard one, and Mr. Titman was in constant
fear of losing the reins from a truly fearful habit
which the animal bad of throwing his head back
at unsuspected moments, and jerking at the rib-
bons with tremendous force. It was quite evident
that no amount of flattery could alter the settled
antipathy which he had to proceeding in an order-
ly manner. So Mr. Titman, with the assistance of
Mr. Toplady, judiciously tied the ends of the
reins firmly about a bag of oats beneath the seat,
as a kind of anchor in case of distress. Con-
siderable time was lost by the necessary care at-
tendant on the increasing bad behavior of the
beast, and as they lost their way repeatedly, and
were constantly getting into lanes, which led to
- some mountain barn, pasture, or nowhere, it was
fully noon before they succeeded in approaching
- their destination.
-   As a compromise measure, natural to the eco-
nomical habits of early times, the primitive in.
I habitants of the two villages of Wolsley and
d lalsted had erected a common house of worship
e on the boundary line of both, and full three miles
- distant from either. The church stood upon the
e pinnacle of a tremendous hill, from which a long
, view of the heavens, the noble lake, and the sur-
- rounding groves, in which the Indians once
- lurked, might be had. Still further on the road,
w the voyagers had ascertained to be the dwelling-
h place of the individual, who united the guardian-
i- ship of the meeting-house with the pursuit of
n agriculture and the extraction of fish from the
Df lake. Mr. Titman congratulated his friend and
n his arms on their approach to the neighborhood,
r, and their spirits once more rose as they mounted
y- the higp hill of promise. As they descended on
e- the other side, Mr. Titman relaxed his precaution,
y for the animal himself seemed to have business
at enough in attending to the rolling stones in the
ie washed road. It was the great mistake of the
ut excursion, and the extraordinary care which the
n horse was manifesting was only a gross piece of
" equine deception. As they approached the bottom
al of the hill, and just as Mr. Titifan was uttering
of an exclamation of satisfaction thereat, the animal
If- started off- at lightning speed.  At one side of
o- the road stood a barn, sunk below the level of
the highway, with its gable end turned toward
lie the latter, and in it, convenient for the storage of
on hay and other produce in the barn-loft, was a
n- window. This window was open, and through it
re Mr. Titman was presently transferred from the
fr. vehicle, bead foremost and with great precipitan-
*n, cy, into the hay, which filled the interior.  The
as immediate cause of this was a simple but lucid
v- movement of the horse in his mad career, by
he which one of the froi t-wheels was twisted be-
on- neath the body of the uggy, and the other upon
be- a boulder lying upon the distant side of the road;
ex- the carriage .being parted i the middle, both
at shafts being broken, and the triumphant oper-
ut ator of the movement being freed .entirely from
in the traces. In the midst of the crisis, Mr. Top-

I

MR. WINKFIELD.

113

lady very wisely essayed to dismount from the  "We wish to procure assistance," continued
vehicle upon his side. He made the attempt, and Mr. Toplady.  "We have been unfortunate,
was compelled by the terrible momentum, result- and-"
ng from the abrupt breaking of the vehicle, to  "Will some bread and cold meat do you?" in-
turn a rapid summerset, in which he became dis- terrupted the female timidly.
ordered both in mind and person, and was made  "My dear woman, you mistake," cried Mr.
to bleed freely from the nose and swallow, nuch Toplady hurriedly. "We don't wish food, but--"
dirt from the highway. He sat up in bewilder-  "Well, then, you had better go on. You can't
meant upon the road, just in time to receive a se- have lodgings here," interrupted the woman at
vere bite in the shoulder from the equine humor- once, and with these words she precipitately
ist, when the latter started for a new and inac- -slammed the door upon their astonished faces,
cessible home, which the adjacent mountainous and immediately locked it.
region afforded him, and to which he at once re-  "Good gracious, what does this mean ?" in-
paired through the graveyard, with the bag of quired the surprised Mr. Toplady of the equally
oats tied to his tail. The, yell of anguish which surprised Mr, Titman.
the insertion of the horse's teeth in his person  " What inhospitality 1" exclaimed the latter.
elicited from the unfortunate Toplady was very  A short moment elapsed and then the blinds
loud, but it failed to bring either Mr. Titman or of the second-story window were opened and a
any one else tothe rescue. The poor gentleman pair of black eyes were seen peeping through the
stanched the- sanguinary stream  which flowed crack at them, and also two smaller pairs lower
from his nose, felt of his person to be assured down. Immediately after this, a loaf of bread,
that no bones were broken, and then gazed in con- thrown without comment at them from the win-
fusion upon the surrounding scenery. He thought dow, struck Mr. Titman on the head, and the
repiningly upon this last addition to the nume- blinds were closed again. These movements were
rous scenes of earthly turmoil to which he had succeeded by the noise of a small contest in the
been subjected since he had come out for a second chamber, and the audible cries of "Don't, grand-
time 'in society-an institution which he now  dad! Don't go near them!" From whichit was
more than ever considered as hardly repaying evident there was a patriarch in the house. A
the cost and trouble of supportig. The sum- pair of rheumy eyes appeared at the blinds, as if
merset which he had turned he conceived he had" making a reconnoissance of the numbers and
turned m upholding that institution; his blood strength of the enemy, and then a venerable per-
had flowed to sustain it. The dirt which he had sonage, throwing open the shutters, boldly dis-
swallowed had been swallowed in the same doubt- closed his attenuated form at the window.
ful cause. Who shall then blame him if he pro-  "Go away, ye. tories !" cried he. " I'm a rev-
ceeded to condemn it even in profane terms, and olutioner, I'd let ye know. Go off. Disperse, ye
lamented the hour he made a second essay in it ? tories !"
He was aroused from his bitter meditation by a  "But, my dear sir, we have business witl.
cry from the hay-loft, and proceeded to his equal- you," exclaimed Mr. Toplady. "Wthave come
ly unfortunate companion's aid.  le discovered for the keys of the boats in your possession, and
it was but the cry of restoration from semi-suffo- we have broken down and wish your assistance !"
cation, for Mr. Titman met him at the door of  This explanatory speech was thrown away, for
the barn to joyfully congratulate him on their es- the old gentleman was deaf as a post. le com-
cape from an ignominious extermination.     menced to wave a fire-shovel in defiance at them.
. Where-where is the horse ?" asked the lit-  "Good God! they can not think we are thieves
tle man.                                    or beggars !" said Mr. Toplady in irritation.
"D-n him!" exclaimed Mr. Toplady, explo-    " Impossible!" replied Mr. Titnian.
sively.                                       " Here, woman ! Where is your husband ?"
"I am glad he is, gone !" said Mr. Titman. roared Toplady angrily.  "I've business with
"Really glad."                              him !"
"It is my opinion, Titman," continued Mr.   The garrison had ceased to parley. It was
Toplady after a moment's silence, in -which they anxiously awaiting the succor of the individual
had been ruefully gazing at the wreck, "that referred to by Mr. Toplady. To add to the disa-
horse is an ass !"                          greeableness of the situation, it commenced to
"What a pity these animals couldn't tell us rain quite smartly. The besieging army at once
beforehand, when they're going to serve us such bivouacked upon the front-porch .and held a dis-
tricks. We might then get out, before they com- gusted consultation upon the best means of re-
mnence. There is no use trying to catch him, I ducing the impromptu fort. A scraping noise
suppose," continued Mr. Titman despondently.  was soon heard at the postern. The boy, who
"No, let him go and let us walk on and find had been dispatched to the fields for his father,
the house. We must procure assistance."     had arrived with the succor, just in time to ar-
They proceeded down the road toward the rest a desperate sally contemplated by the revolu-
house, which after a quarter of a mile walk, they tionary soldier with his fire-shovel.
reached. A woman answered their knock there-  "Hullo, wife, what's matter here?  What do
at, wiping her hands upon her apron as she ap- you want, friends " inquired a burly, honest-
Peared at the door, and followed by two children looking man, appearing at once at the front.
peeping timidly from behind her.             "My dear sir, we want to see you," replied Mr.
"Can we see the head of the family for a mo- Toplady. "We were coming here, when we
Ment ?" asked Mr. Toplady importantly.      broke down on the road just by the church, and
The woman hastily eyed their dusty and torn we wished to procure assistance when your wife~
Clothes.                                    in the most remarkable and unheard-of manner,
"Wa-all, I do' know. What do you warnt ?" supposed we were--"
asked she.                                    " Oh! I see. The woman's a leetle mistaken,


114

MR. WINK

eh? hey! hey !" continued the farmer, laughing.T
" Walk in, friends. You needn't think you an't T
welcome, because you be Jews. I spose you hi
spilt your goods now, hey! hey !"          I
"Good God! Jews ! This is the resultof having
a Roman nose. We are not peddlers nor thieves, n
sir!" said Mr. Toplady raising his voice in re- ti
newed irritation. "We are guests of Mr. Wag-
bull on the river, and we came on his behalf to "
secure your boats for the day after to-morrow !"  e
"Very well, I am not deaf, though dad is, hey!
hey! Walk right in and sot down. Here, you, g
Webster and Johnny, go out of the settin-room  s(
to wonst. Wife put on the kettle, p'raps the
men would like suthin'."                    p
Confidence was thus restored, and Mr. Toplady c
at once entered into a thorough narration of the v
ride, its object, and its catastrophe, during which r
Mr. Titman took an interesting survey of the
room. The floor was partly covered with a gor- s
geous carpet, composed of the debris of the"
breeches, and other habiliments of the family for h
the last two generations, and the handiwork of d
the industrious good-wife herself.  The usual o
asparagus branches had not yet- been removed i
from the painted fire-place, two large conch-shellsi
and four brass candlesticks adorned the mantel-u
-piece, and a stunning picture of Ajax and Achilles
hung on the wall, supposed by the natives, on there
undoubted authority of the grandfather, to be
General Washington and Lord Cornwallis, in thec
new undress uniform adopted just after he left
the army.!
The old gentleman, noticing Mr. Titman's ar-
tistic stare at this illustrious print, at once pro-,
ceeded to entertain the latter with a long andE
rambling story of revolutionary times full of pith
and anecdote, but principally bearing upon theI
outrageous fact that he never yet had received
but eleven dollars of his pension, a dollar a-piece
from as many agents, whom he had authorized to
collect the same, at various periods since the
close of the war. He hoped Mr. Titman would
endeavor to procure some information for him on
the matter.
The latter impulsively promised he would, and
continued he, " Is the Commissioner of Pensions,
an unconscious instrument of such villainy as this
in his bureau, or is he playing himself in this
way !"
"Yes, as a fifer for four year'n more," replied
the, old gentleman, staring hard at Mr. Titman,
after the manner of deaf persons, and' watching
the motion of the latter's lips.
" Ah, You were a musicians,?" said thelatter,
raising his voice.
"I was wounded and taken prisoner at Still-
water," continued the old gentleman, partly at
random.
"Honor be to all such patriots, who defended
their country in its hour of peril !" cried Mr. Tit-
man, in a louder key.
"Eh?   I am a little hard of hearing," replied
the old gentleman. .
"1I say, honor be to all such patriots, who de-
fended their country in its hour of peril!" re-
iterated Mr. Titman, still louder.
Rh"?    I am a little hard of hearing, and-"
*' I say, honor be to all such patriots !" roared
Mr. Titman, " who have-"
"REh?- I am a little deaf, you know, and what
did you say' ?n"

YIELD.
"Oh! never mind.     Nothing!" replied Mr.
itman, with perhaps a tinge of indignation at
is ardent phrase being lost on the old gentle-
an.
"Ha! ha! Yes. A good joke; but it was
A joke to me ! It hurt me like sixty!" con-
nued the latter.
(" Ah ! He thinks I alluded to his wound !")
In what part of your person were you wound.
d, sir ?" again vociferated Mr. Titman.
"Hey?    Yes. Left behind !" replied the old
entleman. "Yes.    I couldn't walk at all, ye
ee. I couldn't get away ."
Mr. Toplady here called to Mr. Titman: "How
rovoking, Titman ! Mr. Staples has a horse he
an loan us, but no vehicle," said be;  and the
village we came through was away out of our
oad 1"
"Yes. You oughter struck for the church,
straight from the sa-outh !" replied Mr. Staples.
Ye see, I lent my carryall to my cousin, and I
aven't any thing but a hay-wagon, but you can't
lo nothin' with that. Them Millerites on the
ther side of the pond have got a buggy, but it
s a mighty ways ra-ound, and they won't lend
nothin' 'cept to people who are ready to go
up V1
" Go up !" exclaimed-Mr. Toplady and Mr. Tit-
man together. "What do you mean by that-.
"Go up to Moses! They believe Millennium is
common', hey! hey !"
" They don't expect to go up, as you call it, in
a buggy, do they ? asked Mr. Toplady, with a
grim smile.
" No, as they belong to the sulky family them-
selves !" said Mr. Titman, laughing very heartily.
Here the natural association of ideas in the
farmer's mind reminded him that he did have
another vehicle under his control. It was on
the ground floor of the little barn, near the meet-
ing.house. If they were not very squeamish, he'd
let 'em have it. By going the short cut they
would save five miles, and as the road was pretty
much free from houses, no one would see them.
It was better than riding three failes in the rain
to the village to get a carriage.
"Squeamish! Not at all, as long as it will
run," said Mr. Toplady.  What kind of vehicle
is it?"
" It is the meetin'-house hearse," replied the
bluff farmer and callous sexton; "and I greased
it last week."
" Good God !" exclaimed Mr. Toplady and Mr.
Titman -in unison.
"It lo good and strong, and there is room
enough on the seat for two. That is, I think so.
But you'd better stay all night. Ulysses will be
to home with the wagon to-morrow."
Mr. Toplady and Mr. Titman looked at each
other. The thought of the festivities at Mr.
Wagbull's and the probable alarm of Mr. Wink-
field, if they should thus prolong their absence,
suggested itself to both. In .desperation, the
made up their minds ; and so the farmer le  i
horse, a docile animal, to the quasi-barn, or
hearse-house. With acapacious cotton umbrella,
which the-kind housewife loaned to them, and
after many. substantial thanks to her and her
husband and the accomplishment of the original
mission, our voyagers soon set out on their home-
ward journey. There was hardly room for two on
the seat of the vehicle, but, with the umbrela to

MR. WI
shelter them from the rain, and their spirits
buoyed up by the oddity of the thing, they started
off in an extremely lively manner, Mr. Titman
holding the reins and cracking his jokes, and Mr.
Toplady holding fast to the seat and umbrella, with
a firm determination to enjoy it all. It was not
long, however, before their spirits fell again. In
vain did Mr. Toplady endeavor to keep his seat.
Whenever there was any trotting, he was in
continual danger of being precipitated to the
ground by slipping sidewise, and whether there
was any trotting or not, it was useless to attempt
to shield himself and friend with the heavy um-
brella from the driving blast, against which they
were heading. The seat was filled with water,
and their legs were completely drenched. Mr.
Toplady was accustomed to all the varieties of
the water-cure treatment, but such a sitz-bath he
positively disliked.
"0  dear!   It is of no use !" said he, in
utter misery and exhaustion. 41-I can't hold up
this dreadful umbrella any longer. I ean't prop
it up, or do any thing with it!"
"Well, shut it down; it -is of no good !" re-
plied Mr. Titman, more anxious than ever to
get along the road.
"the rheumatism will repay me for -this !"
again commenced Mr. Toplady, after a pause.
"Never mind I" cried the unfaltering Titman,
whipping up the horse.  "We shall, soon be
home by this road!"
"Stop ! atop, Titman! My legs are aching
now," said the unfortunate Toplady. " There is
no help for it. I don't like to do it, but I must-
I must get inside, Titman !"-
"But, good gracious! Supposing any one
should find us driving along at this furious rate,"
said Mr. Titman, shuddering, " and they should
find. you inside in a fit?  0 gracious ! It is
too much like-"
" Never mind. I am not going to be laid up
six weeks, with inflammatory rheumatism, for
the sake of appearances ! I am going to get in-
side !" said Mr. Toplady determinedly.0
They stopped. Mr. Toplady opened the little
door at the -back, and crawled in. What his
sensations were, after Mr. Titman closed the door
upon him, we can not exactly state.
An hour or two after this transfer was made
on the road, Miss Rushton was looking out of the
drawing-room window of Mr. Wagbull's mansion,
at the rain, when she descried a conveyance on
the distant road.
"There is a hearse !" said she, to Miss De
Pompenkops. "Some poor person gone to the
dark and gloomy abode."
" How fast he drives !" ejaculated another
young lady. "Why, I declare, he-he is turn-
ing in here."
"In here ?"
"And, heavens! it is-it is Mr. Titman driv-
ing !" continued she, in astonishment.
"Good gracious !" exclaimed all the ladies in
chorus, rushing to the windows.
"It is lie! It really is the little man !" cried
Miss Rushton, with increased surprise. "No
other I Has be been taken insane ? And where
is Mr. Toplady ?" .
" Why, what does it mean ?" exclaimed they
all in chorus again, and looking at each other in
utter amazement.
Regardless of any thing but the rain, Mr. Tit-

NKFIELD-                                 115
man drove the vehicle steadily up to the door.
I With a short command to his animal, he arrested
its progress.  In thoughtful benevolence,the
backed the conveyance up to the Piazza. Amid
the cries of horror and astonishment, he opened
its narrow door and benevolently lent his assist-
ance to the disburdening of its unfortunatecOn-
tents.
Mr. Toplady was carried to his room by the
domestics, where he revived sufficiently to call
for Moses and a glass of brandy, while Mr. Tit-
man sought the drawing-room fire, and there en-
deavored, with congealed tongue and incoherent
accents, to give a confused account of theradven-
tures of the day to the excited assemblage.
CHAPTER LI.
GEORGE HENRY DOTTLEWASHER.
IN the househdid of Mr. Wagbull- there was a
very pretty young maid, of English origin, who
assisted the cook of the establishment in the
important duties of the kitchen, besides attend-
ing to those connected with the renovation of
the more delicate pieces of linen which could
not safely be intrusted to the Irish laundres.
This maid, on a bright morning a day or two af-
ter the arrival of our friends, was engaged in a
little court near the stables in the laudable oc-
cupation of hanging out certain of the aforesaid
pieces of linen, for the purpose of drying them
in the sun, when Mr. de St. Beauty, who had
been lounging in the stables, gently digesting his
breakfast, in inspecting the horses and meditat-
ing perhaps upon the gay existence of the mem-
bers of his profession, crossed accidentally the
little court for the purpose of returning to the
house. The young female, casting her eyes
upon him, paused so abruptly in her occupation
and gave such a start that her movements arous-
ed the meditative gentleman from his reflections.
" Hah! taken with my shape P" said the gen-
tleman to himself. "Let us see what sort of
creature she is before we go in. There is no-
body looking, and perhaps-"
The girl still stood gazing at him, as if thor-
oughly subdued by is appearance.
"Ha! ha!I This is love at first sight P" con,
tinned the flippant young gentleman.  "It is
our duty to attend to it, poor girl !"
"George 'Enry l" cried the maid aloud.
"Eh ?" said the diplomat with a lively move-
ment. "Who called me ? I thought I heard--"
" It's him! I am sure of it now I" ejaculated
the maid. "George Henry. George Henry Bot-
tlewasher I" reiterated she.
" Eh ?" continued the young diplomatist, look-
ing at her more attentively.  "Oh ! blast it !
it's-it's that little girl I met in New-York at-
but what do you wish, my girl ?" continued he
immediately resuming his assured air. "Shall I
be careful of the grass, oh ?"
"How, Mr. Geor-ge Henry Bottlewasher ! Don't
you recognize me-don't you know the young
lady as kept your company when you were in
the'Hinglish consul's kitchen in New-York ? And
told me confidentially all about how you got
kicked out of 'or Majesty's hambassador's at Pa-
l-is, and run away to America ?"


116-                              MR. WI
"0 my God, she'll compromise me "
" You said very well, I-was too good for you,
and now I know it myself, sir !" continued the
maid in great indignation.
"Good heaven I don't talk so loud, Elizabeth!
You'll arouse the house. Young woman, I must
correct your error. I am not the person you
refer to at all. Not at all ! You confound me
with-with some other confounded person !"
"Eh! but it is you. I know you very well I"
continued the maid in the same strain.
" Then you have forgotten who you are your-
self, if you say that, Lizzie-I would say, my
worthy girl 1
"1 have not forgotten myself. _ I know who
I am, and what is more, I know I am not like
you, perfidious, 'eartless fellow, as you are "
"What is going to come of this? Here is
my fat in the fire, all on account of a woman
again, too !"
" It is frightful, 'orrible, your treachery. But
I will proclaim it to every one I see !" continued
the girl, overcome by her feelings and putting
her apron to her eyes.
" Oh ! the devil is in the pot! there is no use
now-she's got to crying !" said the gentleman,
" by gravy, if any one should happen to come
this way-Lizzie ! I am just now dearly expiat-
ing the crime of my forgetfulness. The storms
of life are descending on me I I am being dish-
ed and served up half-cooked by a cruel fate, but
know that not my interest alone but yours, my
dearest duck, has induced me to pawn my iden-
tity and the fair name of Bottlewasher for--for
drachmas-and here-here on bended knee,"
continued the wild young gentleman, looking
hastily toward the house, "I renew the assurance
of my distinguished affection !",
"Well! at least you remember your Lizzie.
You are not so cruel as to forget her features I"
" Hallo!1 what is all that ?" said Mr. Wagbull,
entering the inclosure through the garden-gat
just at this moment. "I say, S'boaty, that i
rather lively, isn't it?"
" Great Dina of the Effeezus ! It is shy wor
thy host !" exclaimed the penitent lover, jump
ing up. "I dare say, my host, you think I wa
attempting to throw myself at her feet V"
"I don't know about that, but you certainlI
were at them !"
"Well, it did look like it, I must confess. Bu
you see the wind was blowing away one of thes
napkins, or diapers, or whatever they are, and in
pure gallantry I had to secure it for her. As at
organ of international and domestic -courtesy,
put on my diapason stop, ha ! ha ! Do you see?
"1I must say, I do not exactly, my friend. How
ever, boys will be boys!"
"Yes, she didn't want to lose her napkins, an(
I didn't want to lose my illusions, ha! ha! It i
the French school of diplomacy I was educate
in, eh ! ha! ha!'
"I've no doubt of it. Well, well, come alone
with me to the billiard-room, and see how man
points you wish me to give you."
CHAPTER LII'.
Tmgl BAcK-SEAT OP THlE WAGON.
UroN. the occasion of the picnic excursion I
the picturesque lake of Halsted, Mr. Toplady wI

NKFIELD.
delighted. Miss De Pompenkops, the proud de-
scendant of one of the great blooded Dutch fan-
ilies of Ameriea, had c)osen him to be her venv-
her. He determined to make it a day of earnest-
ness. There should be no play about it for him.
After a charming drive upon the bright September
morning, the party arrived at the lovely sheet of
water; the opinion of the natives, on the route,
at the appearance of Mr. Winkfield's eye-glass,
Mr. Beekman's whiskers, and the lively demonstra-
tion of Mr. Barnard and Mr. St. Beauty on horse
back, having been divided as to whether the caval-
cade was a circus, or the son of the British queen
with his suite, whom they "had heern tell was
aba-out in the country." Miss Do Pompenkops
expressing a passion for the manly scenes afforded
by the virile art, Mr. Toplady at once determined
to row, much to the satisfaction of an indolent
yung gentleman by the name of Mills, who shared
with him the responsibility of propelling one of
the boats. He grasped the oars, and at once set
out in rash magnificence.
"Why, you be goiu! wrong cend foremost,
Mister!" cried one of the sexton's boys, lying on
the platform.
Eh .So I am," said Mr. Toplady, hastily re-
versing his strokes and running the boat back
into the platform, by its contact with which, he
flew into Miss Rushton's embrace, causing her in
agitated union with Miss Pompenkops to topple
backward upon Mr. Mills, who at once communi-
cated the momentum with his head to the bottom
of the boat, where it was duly annihilated.
"What an awkward, clumsy boat this is ." ex-
claimed Mr. Toplady, recovering himself.
."Wait, Mister, ye must sit ra-ound t'otlrer way.
said the boy, pausing in his unrestrained laughter
at Mr. Toplady'sinexperience. "Stern on, I will
push ye off."
Mr. Toplady obeyed, and starting off again, ran
at once into a lily-pad at one side of his route,
from the natural disproportion of strength in his
arms.
"Why will you play such merry pranks, Mr.
- Toplady ?" cried Miss Rushton archly. "Do go
- ahead. See, the other boats are far out."
" Well, I will," replied Toplady perspiring.
"Mills, don't let me deprive you of the pleasure
y of rowing. 1-11
" Oh! do feather the oars, Mr. Toplady l" ex-
t claimed Miss De Pompenkops.    It is so beauti-
e ful to see the bending blade, now dividing the
n sparkling wave and now dripping in the sun's
n splendor.".
" '1Certainly!" said the gallant Toplady, tugging
" in agony at the oars, and with difficulty retaining
them in his hands.      -
"Oh! yes, we all know you have a genius for
d feathering the oars, Mr. Toplady !" chimed in Miss
s Rushton.
d    Mr. Toplady felt it might be possible, as he
had never tried, and presently he essayed various
g violent and paralytic motions with his wrists, with
y the assurance of showing thereby that he could
do something extraordinary with the oars, even
if he should not strike upon the aquatic mystery
alluded to. Then, after alternate exclamations
these coplicated actions, he relaxed his effort
from .sheer exhaustion, and Mr. Mills relieved
to him.1 Then, as they approached the opposite
is shore, he in turn relieved Mr. Mills, and was

MR. WINKFIELD.

117

challenged to a race by Moses in another boat. pieces, and frightened the remainder and the
Upon this, gazing in the eyes of Miss De Pompen- ladies into momentary quiet. And then the re-
kops, he once more renewed his vigor, and dipped past was determined upon. During the harrow-
his blades deeply in enthusiasm. Presently as a ing scene upon the lake, two cows from the bushes,
cheer from the parties on shore greeted his ath- taking advantage of the confusion, had succeeded
letic efforts, one of his oars "caught the crab," in breaking open one of the baskets, and eaten sev-
and sheered sidewise into the profound. He enteen pies and all the sandwiches. This little
dropped the other oar and held on with 'both sport of the animals, however, occasioned but
hands to the crab-catcher, and following its course, brief delay, and even additional excitement was
as the boat turned abruptly, glided easily and obtained from it in the formation of a foraging
headforemost over the side of the boat.     party to the scattered -houses in the distance, of
"By heaven, there is Toplady overboard !" whom Mr. Barnard was the most successful, for
cried Mr. Barnard upon the shore. "Good God, he secured a large and choice provision of edibles
and there goes Moses !"                     by making a descent upon the house of the Mil-
"So they are, by George !" exclaimed a fat lerite farmer, dwelling in the vicinity. After
country gentleman in astonishment. "Both on politely listening to that deluded agriculturist's
'em I"                                      explanation, that money was of no object to* him,
Mr. Titman frantically embraced a young lady and that these edibles were especially prepared
standing near him, while the ladies; whom Mr. for a farewell dinner, on the following Sunday,
Toplady had so ungallantly deserted, might be with some religious friends, who expected to go
seen in convulsed terror going through the same up with him and family immediately thereafter, the
process. Brunswick plunged headlong into the lively commissary quietly knocked him down, and
pond, and Mr. Barnard followed his example.  seizing the provisions, brought them successfully
"Oh! wirra! acushla! wirra-wirroo !" cried the into camp. During the repast there were toasts to
Irish lad, starting off toward the nearest house the ladies and to the brave rescuers of Mr. Top-
for an ax.                                  lady, and then there were songs. The fat country
" Keep up, Toplady, for God's sake !" bawled gentleman became grateful for Bessie's melodies
Mr. Wagbull, as the unfortunate gentleman's legs to such an extent as to offer one himself. And
appeared for a moment above the surface and mounting a log for this purpose, fell off'in the
then disappeared again. "Good God, there is middle of his Bashanic efforts, and became quite
Winkfield entirely out of sight! Why, the boy sulky at Moses, who, supposing he had finished,
can't swim !",                              diverted the attention to a loon upon the lake.
It was but a moment of suspense. The next Mr. Titman and Mr. St. Beauty came out with
thereafter the faithful Brunswick held Mr. Wink- their jokes and witticisms, at which the country
field by the collar, and Mr. Toplady was clinging gentleman speedily recovered his humor and
to the side of his boat, into which the agitated kicked out violently-behind to express his delight.
Mr. Mills was endeavoring to draw him by his And then a game of forfeits was instituted, which
head, while Mr. Barnard was bravely striking out was soon broken up by Mr. Barnard, as he d'
within two feet of them in the water.       not deem it worth while to wait for the pregr
1"It's only four feet deep here. I touched the of the game, but fell to hissing without the au-
bottom twice," cried he, sputtering. "They are thority of its rules, in which grave irregularity he
both safe any how, ladies !" was soon followed by the whole party. Mr. Top-
The danger being over, Mr. Wagbull promptly lady kept aloof from such wild scenes, because
.elicited three cheers from the assembly, and his the celebrated  Dutch gardener's dignified de-
daughter as promptly fainted. She soon recovered, scendant did, but joined in the numerous dances,
however, to severely criticise Moses's heroic at- and led her about in their mazes with studied
tempt to swim with his boots on. steps and patient devotion. Such moments suc-
" Ha! ha! It is a good joke," said Mr. Titman, ceeded each other in lively variety, until the sun
who had descried the bottom in the slanting rays began to lower, and at last, when Brunswick, the
of the sun, and had come to the conclusion there Irish lad, and the other domestic, had eaten the
had been no danger. Mr Toplady did not think remainder of the banquet, discussed the heel-taps,
so at all. If it had been amusing to fall headlong and Timothy had been partially resuscitated from
into a pond, it was certainly no subject for merri an unexpected intoxication into which he had
ment to him, to be compelled from fear of rheum- fallen, the wagons, which had been brought around
atism to present to a number of gentlemen and to the scene, were prepared for the return. At
ladies the phenomenon of a staid, elderly gentle- the house of the Millerite, they paused for a short
man, playing horse in an open field, especially period, for they found that its excitable proprietor
when he knew that one was present, to whom  had been scared by Mr. Barnard's summary ac-
above all others he would-                  tions within its precincts, into the belief that
. But never mind, the festivities proceeded with Millennium was instantly'at hand, and in conse-
great hilarity  A fire was built to relieve Mr Top- quence had mounted into an apple-tree with all
lady from his equine diversion, and dry the other his family, clothed in pink gauze ascension-robes
moist members of the company, and soon after- to await the important event. They rectified his
ward the dancing was commenced to further the momentary aberration at least, and induced him
same purpose, Mr. Titman playing the game- to descend ; and having requited his forced hos-
some accordeon, whtch he had brought thither, pitality, started once more upon their way home-
assisted by Mr St. Bealit6 upon the resonant violin, ward.
And then there was fishing from a neighboring  Mr. Toplady was in the last vehicle with the
ledge by all the ladies, the gentlemen baiting the proud heiress and descendant of one of the old-
hooks and supporting the fair ones in their pro- eat Dutch market-gardeners ot New York history.
Carious positions. And then Mr. Barnard and The feelings which he experienced as he enjoyed
Mr Titman killed a few birds with their fowling- the back-scat with her, were peculiar. IHis inter-


118                              MR. WIN]
est in her, to speak generally; was no doubt that
of predestinated affection ; yet it had been up to
this moment-in particular, since his hasty de-
monstration in her drawing-room-that respectful,
reverential sympathy, which might be termed by
keen dissecters of character, social poltroonery
and fear of her. But now there arose in his
bosom an intenser emotion, akin to that insane
impulse which impels fascinated moths or horses
to seek the flames which are to consume them.
As he fell headlonginto the lake, he had thought,
amid his excitement, as he went over, that he
heard his name, the familiar name of Effingham,
breathed in terrified affection from her lips. He
was not sure, but the possibility had refined his
reason, and he had been silently exercising it
during the whole afternoon. And now, thought
he, should he weakly suffer to pass a felicitous
moment, and dash the cup from his lips as it was
presented ? Should he relinquish the golden op--
portunity of securing the treasure for which he
had ventured into the toils of numerous tailors,
florists, barbers and jockeys, when it was just
within his grasp ? Should he, after having once
compromised his equanimity of feeling by dis-
closing on his knees, and in his best pantaloons,
his preference,.blush out the remainder of his life,
and die a poor, single, scorned thing, because he
had not spirit enough to show he knew how to
properly do it? -To." He would seize the golden
opportunity afforded by the back-seat, and  de-
clare his passion or-perish in the attempt!
" How beautiful is the country," said she pen-
sively.  "I could live here all thle year, were
there only society."I
" And without that, you would derive happiness*
here as elsewhere, from the very reflex of your
own presence," replied Mr. Toplady. "Yes, you
would be happy here too !"
" How, Mr. Toplady ? Without the fashions,
without taste, without the intercourse with well-
bred people?  Observe the shocking manners and
dress of the natives. Oh! no, it would be unen-
durable !"
" But would not the society-the love of one
here, be a sufficient consolation for the absence
of the mere admiration of the hollow many there ?"
suggested Mr. Toplady, with a leer.
" The affection of the commoner sort of people
seems, indeed, to thrive in such a rude existence
of solitude and exile, but to persons of refine-
ment, the delightful appliances of refinement and
taste'seem necessary to render mutual sympathy
exquisite or heaven-like, do they not ?"
There seemed a faltering weakness in her tones,
as if they were those of a reluctant confession.
His arm was upon the back of the seat. He
was violently impelled by some unknown, unseen,
and unearthly power. The mellowness of the
hour, softened by the graceful shadows, was in
unison with thepensive tenderness of feeling which
she seemed in vain endeavoring to conceal. The
parties oi the front-seat were occupied.
" Beloved being! My danger this morning
affected you!" whispered he agitatedly. " I saw
it as I sunk! And let this sign of my impas-
sioned hope in return, now properly imprinted on
your fair brow, be a token to you of the everlast-
ing sympathy of our hearts !"
With this the rash gentleman at once precipi-
tated himself upon his fair companion's form,
crushing her bonnet completely and succeeding

IL wim  W., VIkTl

MR. WINKFIELD.

FIELD.
in planting his osculatory blow, somewhere under
her left eye. The neighboring air was filled with
a wild scream.
-The astonishment of Mr. Mills and Miss Wag-
bull who were on the front -seat, may be con-
ceived, when on turning they observed Miss
Pompenkops apparently fainted, and Mr. Toplady
in the act of frantically leaping oyer a stone wall
at the side of the road.  0
" Good God! What is the matter ?" hastily
cried Mr. Mills.,
" He-Mr. Toplady-sir-I-0 Miss Wag-
bull!" incoherently murmured the lady. t
"Why, she has the hysterics !" cried Miss
Wagbull, hastily placing herself at the unfortun-
ate young lady's side and sustaining her form.
"But what has Mr. Toplady gone for?" asked
Mr. Mills.
" Heavens, I scarce can tell!  For water
from a spring perhaps, to revive her !" conjec-
tured the confused Bessie.
The young lady here sat up, opened her eyes
and looked around.   "Mr. Toplady, I-why,
where is Mr. Toplady ?" asked she agitatedly.
" He has gone into the woods. What is it,
deary ? You are better now. Did-you see some-,
thing unexpected, some horrible sight?" asked
Bessie tenderly.
" Has he" gone? Heavens ! Yes, yes, I saw a
terrible, cruel sigt-a poor wounded bird, a
weak fluttering thing, and Mr. Toplady-yes, he
must have gone to rescueit !" replied Miss De
Pompenkops. "But surely he will speedily re-
turn," continued she, raising her voice and making
her accents quite distinct.
She was mistaken, though they awaited his re-
turn for some time, during which she minutely-
recounted the scene of the wounded bird. Mr.
Toplady did not appear. They called him by
name, shouted their impatience, and Mr. Mills
dismounted and looked a short distance into the
shadowy precincts of the forest.
" This is a most singular thing !" said he.
" He must have got lost in the thicket and
wandered out of the reach of our voices !")
They renewed their calls and shouts, and Mr.
Mills, at Miss De Pompenkops's request, endeavor-
ed to convey to the erratic gentleman's ears. her
special commands for his return, but his efforts
were useless.
" There is a bend in the road above here. He
may have wandered through the forest and
joined one of the wagons ahead of us," suggested
Bessie.  "4OP at least he may be awaiting us
upon the road !"
All hope of his return to them there being
dissipated, they accepted this doubtful solution,
and drove on, expecting to be accosted by him at
every turn and corner of the road. But he did
not appear. The shades of night fell thicker and
thicker, and finally in darkness they were forced
to proceed impatiently toward home, relying upon
the presumption of finding him there.
For four hours after their arrival, the whole
household in commotion and eager expectancy
awaited the sounds of footsteps upon the gravel,
or of the farmer's wagon, which might possibly
be bringing the lost gentleman back to his home,
while the impatient Moses, with Brut swick amid
other domestics frequently sallied down the road
with 'lanterns to aid his belated return. Just as
Mr. Wagbull, at a moment considerably past

midnight, was ordering out the entire strength
of his stables and his household for an organized
search, Brunswick, in visiting Mr. Toplady's
apartment, for that gentleman's overcoat, dis-
covered himin bed soundly sleeping.    His
clothes were much disordered, his boots soiled
with the mud of swamps and the dust of the
highway, and he bore the appearance of being,
greatly fatigued.
After unknown and superhuman exertions, the
wretched gentleman had reached the house, and
rather with the feelings of a murderer than a re-
spectable human being, had unobservedly sneaked
up by the back way to his room, where, over-
come with fatigue, with thoughts of self-slaugh-
ter, or at least the necessity of perpetual intoxi-
cation to make life bearable, he had sunk in
slumber. Relieved of their fears, his friends
permitted him to remain undisturbed, and re-
tired themselves to await a thorough explanation
in the morning, of what was certainly an extra-
ordinary adventure, if not proceeding, upon the
part of a respectable elderly gentleman.
We are happy to state for his sake, that on the
morrow the theory of the wounded bird was
opportunely discovered, eagerly accepted, and
minutely followed up by him. Nay we can say,
restored to joy, he even saw in it an allegorical
meaning.
CHAPTER LIII
MR. ]BEEKMAN MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF MR.
BOTTLEWASHER.
MR. BEERMAN-nBOUTS was an individual of that
enviable temperament which is rarely thrown
from its balance by the difficulties of its possess-
or, to say nothing of those of others. Whether
this was because the sanguineness of his nature
was greater than his perspicacity, or whether the
latter was not very lucid in its effects, it was
nevertheless true that his equanimity was rarely
disturbed. To be sure, he might be observed at
times nursing his whiskers with a serious air,
but that may.have been as much the result of a
noble reliance upon their power as of any thing
else. He thus smiled complacently upon the fa-
vor which Miss De Pompenkops seemed disposed
to bestow upon Mr. Toplady at the picnic, and
which, it was quite evident, she did bestow upon
him subsequent to it. The time, which he was
wont to expend in sitting in silent satisfaction by
her side, he now tranquilly consumed in frequent
resorts to the arms of Somnus, or in smoking a
segar in lazy pedestrianism upon the numerous
walks of the surrounding park. It should not
be inferred that he did not ratiocinate upon the
adjustment of proper means to any end in hand,
for he undoubtedly did this. But his weakness
lay rather in his confidence that if he did not
possess such means, fortune would be sure to
bestow them upon him.
It was on a bright afternoon,  day or two
after the picnic, that, from the warmness of the
weather, he had betaken himself to a shady
bower in the gardens, with a paper of cigarittos
and a French novel, there to pass an hour upon
.his back, in lazily titillating his fancy, or watching
in sleepy nonchalance the wreaths of smoke

twirling from his lips. He had been there but a
few moments, and was blinking in sympathetic
amusement at a bright-eyed toad, hopping about
the bower, while he was silently debating whether
he should light another segar or not, when he
heard the noise of footsteps upon the gravel, and
of conversation, in a by-walk which ran across
the park at a short distance from. his retreat.
He immediately recognized one of the voices to
be that of the illustrious Chevalier St. Beaut6
and the other that of a female, who appeared to
be laboring under some little womanly excitation
of feeling, which the gentleman was evidently
endeavoring by his conversational eloquence to
assuage. Eavesdropping was an action the gen-
tlemanly Beekman naturally scorned, and he rose
to a sitting posture for the purpose of at once
disclosing his propinquity to the new-comers,
when he was astonished to observe that the fe-
male was one of the maids of the house. Under
such circumstances he did not feel himself bound
to move at all, except to at once hide himself in
the most artful manner he could. What was the
conversation he heard, or were the actions he ob-
served, it is not necessary for us to state, it being
sufficient to remark that after an apparently eatl*-
factory result to both parties, the maid tripped
back hastily, by a somewhat circuitous path, to
the house. Mr. Beekman immediately emerged
from his shady covert, and following the diplo-
mat, who was already sauntering back, humming
a lively air, exclaimed authoritatively:
" Here, sir. Stop your singing, sir, and come
here!"
"Stop my singing! eh?  Are you addressing
me, sir ?" exclaimed the young diplomatist, mani-
festing great astonishment, as he turned hastily
around and observed the other.
"Yes, you rascal !" replied the latter.
" Perhaps you would be pleased to moderate
your expressions. It is a tone, sir, to which I
am not habituated ! Not at all, sir!" said the
diplomatist.
"Not habituated! You rascally fellow, I have
heard all V"
"And what am I to infer from that, sir ?"
asked the diplomatist immediately.
"I know all, I repeat to you; and I have the
intention of knocking you down. Now I think
of it, I remember seeing you as hall-waiter at Mr.
Barclay's !"
"It wasn't me !" said the other.
"Brazen-faced rascal!"
"He may have been, but it wasn't me I"
"Rascal! Do you mean to say you didn't an-
swer the bell there ?"
" I never answered at all."
" I have no doubt of that, you scoundrel.
But listen to me, Bottlewasher; I will not knock
you down.   I will expose you, and stop your
confounded disguised career."
" It is my diplomatic talent. I have a genius
for it. You can't choke off genius !"
"Diplomatic talent!  Well, you have impu-
dence enough, that is true !" said- Mr. Beek-
man.
"I will employ that talent in your favor! I
know your relations here ! I've seen how your
pot boils as well as mine !"
" Eh, sir ? Here, take yourself off. No,
stay," continued Mr. Beekman. " Fortune has
sent me this fellow. By Jove, he can tell me

119


120                              MR. WINKFIELD.
what is going on, and when she is tired of ideas out from an adjacent mountain, had made one of'
and conversing men, and wants the society of a those natural bathing-places, four or five feet
chap like me," thought he, in lazy weakness. deep, of fresh, sparkling water, swiftly flowing
"He's a good fellow to have, by Jove !"    or whirling merrily in graceful rounds, which
" Leave it all to me !" continued the assured are irresistible to those who are partial to the
Mr. Bottlewasher. "You'll see in two days how  delights of bathing, and not partial to any dan-
I'll assist you 1"                         ger therein. Mr. Toplady and Mr. Winkfield
"Eh? very well, I will. But remember, you during their short stay had frequently paid
rascal, don't you attempt to hold any conversa- morning visits to this place of refreshment, but
tion with me. And confound you, sit-sit at now as the season was rapidly growing colder,
the other end of the table at dinner, you ras- Mr. Toplady had postponed his bath to the warm-
cal!"                                   ,1,er hour of the day which preceded that of din.
"Very well, I consent to the conditions."  ner. The place was quite secluded, and Mr. Top.
" Here, pull the wrinkles out of my pantaloons, lady after disrobing himself was induced for a
and brush the leaves from my knees."       short moment to frisk on the rocky brink and
"But, my dear sir, is it proper for a popular cut numerous agile capers in the air ere he
member of the diplomatic profession to--" .  plunged in, with all- the ardor and enthusiasm of
"No words. Do as I tell you, rascal !"   the amateur in water-cure. Great was the plung-
"Yes, sir, yes, sir. Any thing else, sir?"  ing, and diving, and turning over on the back,
"Yes. Get out, you rascal "' and snorting, and hard breathing, and laughing,
That evening, shortly previous to the hour of and races around the bend, and crawling up the
dinner, Mr. Wagbull happened to be passing by rapids above, whith took place on the part of
Mr. Beekman's room, when he was amazed to the two swimmers.
observe therein the distinguished  Mr. de St.  "You swim pretty well, Toplady !" said Mr.
Beauty in the act of shaving the former.    Mills, who had been forced to acknowledge his
" Well !" said he to himself, as he proceeded. inferiority in that noble art by propelling him-
"That is the liveliest specimen of a young gen- self on the bottom in the races.
tieman I ever saw! Actually amusing himself   "Yes, with my clothes off. But I can't get
with the novel excitement of taking off some- along at all with 'em on," replied Mr. Toplady,
body else's beard !"                        paddling away to keep his head above the sur-
face. "The other day, when I fell into the lake,
I went underneath immediately. The more I
tried to swim, the farther down went my bead.
Iam going to practice, though, with weights in
CHAPTER LIV.                  my pockets. I am not going to give it up until
MR. TOPLADY AND FRIENDENJOY A DELIGHTFUL Pcan carry a hundred pounds I"
WALK AND REFRESH THEMSELVES WITH A RU.      "Isn't this splendid ?" said Mr. Mills, ducking
WALK AND RFRMsWHICHTH  EVER)WTHEAYRU-his head beneath the water for a moment, and
RAL BATH, FROM WHICH, HOWEVER, THEY DO then rising to catch his breath and recover his
NOT RETURN AS THEY COULD WISH.     -      presence of mind. "It gives one an appetite
ONE of the most charming peculiarities of Sep. too."
tember weather -in Vermont is that it possesses  "Magnificent! magnificent !" answered Mr.
all the beauties of summer, many of those of Toplady, with new enthusiasm at the prospect of
autumn, and none of the disagreeable features a delightful walk home and a pleasant dinner
of either. I think there is no happiness equal thereafter.  "Now for one morb race, Mills.
in tranquil enthusiasm to that which an after- We'll go up to the rapids and float down around
noon walk across the fields and in the woods the turn in the current. What do"you say ?"
upon one of these days affords. The sun is emil. "Go it !" said Mr. Mills, and away they went,
ing with all his benevolent blandness.upon the laughing and struggling, and disappearing around
scene, and yet the wind is blowing in smart the bend. Then, after a little rest, back they
freshness, waving the foliage, and wooing the came, floating swiftly on the current, or rolling
check of the pedestrian, to dissipate the warmth Akround therein like drifting chips.
of exposure and the exercise. Huge clouds are ' "Well, let's go out now. Never stay in too
incessantly chasing each other, as if in frolic, long at one time; is my motto. Duck your head
across the sky, laughing now and then at their once more, and then go out," said Mr. Toplady,
sport, till they cry a few drops, which come as he took his own prescription, and then com-
slanting down, while Iris's aerial bow spans the menced wading toward the little landing ledge
lofty eastern hills.  Beside all this, the birds of rocks, upon a back shelf of which, beneath
are making a devil of a noise, packing up their a tree, they had placed their towels and clothes.
trunks to go south, and the cows, horses, and  "Good gracious! where are our clothes ?" ex-
other animals seem  continually animated with claimed he hastily, as he observed that the tow-
the glowing sights of the heavy harvest about els were in their places, but-that the apparel was
them. So thought Mr. Toplady and Mr. Mills not.
as they paused in their afternoon walk from Mr.  "Eh ?  What did you say ?" asked Mr. Mills,
Wagbull's house, at the side of a sparkling riv- walking out, and shaking the water from  his
ulet, which, strengthened by its many mountain head.
tributaries, seemed quite a diminutive river, ere " Did you move our clothes from here, Mills ?"
it ran through Mr. Wagbull's property to join inquired Mr. Toplady, commencing to hastily
the beautiful Connecticut. At the point where plush away the surrounding bushes with his
the gentlemen seated themselves, about a mile hand.
from the house, an angular turn in the stream, " Eh? No. What is the matter ? can't you
caused by an enormous ledge of rocks running find them? "

MR. WINKFIELD.                     121

" Good God, no!t Why, what does this mean ?"
-continued the excited Toplady, jumping upon the
back ledge and rummaging earnestly about.
" Ha ! ha! Some of our friends at the house
are around here with 'em!" conjectured Mr.
Mills dubiously.  "Hello! Winkfield! Titman !"
There was no answer, except by the echoes
from the neighboring mountain, which soon died
away on their attentive hearing.
"1I say, Titman, Moses, this is no joke at all.
Come here. We are catching cold," cried Mr.
Toplady pettishly. "Not funny at all!"
The summons was of no use, nor were the re-'
petitions thereof, nor the renewed and prolonged
searching of both the bathers.
"1O dear !" said Mr. Toplady, pausing in his
anxiety, as the too probable truth struck upon
his mind. "Some scoundrel of a foot-pad has
stolen them! He hasn't even left 'the shirts.
They-they might be of some-"
" It is dreadful. What shall we do ?" inquired
Mr. Mills, beginning to shiver.
"God knows," replied Mr. Toplady, staring at
the opposite shore. It was, indeed, a" difficult
position to be extricated from by human reason-
ing. The sun was sinking behind the bills. If
they staid there, they would run the hazard of
freezing to death. They could not go home in
the predicament they were in, and if they at-
tempted to seek the road to accost passers-by for
assistance, they might run the risk of exposing
themselves before they could properly retreat.0
" Whoever you are that have taken these
clothes," cried Mr. Toplady indefinitely, "if you
will leave them where you are, and designate the
spot, you may take all the change there is in the
pockets, and the watch too, the rascal! It is an
old silver one."
" I left mine on mydressing'-case, luckily," said
Mr. Mills.                        k
The generous offer, and the entreating tone
thereof, were alike lost on the hardened offender,
if he was still in the neighborhood.  The only
thing remaining for them to do was to cautiously
approach the road, mount into a tree thereon,
and hail the first passer-by that came along.
With some difficulty from the rough bushes,
briers, and thorns, they succeeded in reaching the
road, and both at once mounted into a -maple-
tree, and concealed themselves in the foliage, to
await the coming of some traveler. It was not a
highway, and the chances were against their
seeing any one at all.- For full half an hour they
waited in gloomy, desperate silence. At last the
joyful sound of an approaching wagon fell on
their ears. The vehicle camPe in sight. 0n its
front-seat was an honest farmer, returnig from
Chester, and on the back were two yoing fe-
males, his daughters, without doubt, talking to-
gether.
" 0 gracious I how unlucky I" said Mr. Top-
lady, in a low but energetic tone. - "Confound
the deuced women! Always the way with these
country girls, riding about when they should be
at home attending to their business V"
This speech was apparently very ungallant, but
it was caused by the very fact of his respect for
the sex amounting to timidity. Thus the vehicle
rolled'past to a short distance, ere he summoned
up enough courage to give a subdued yell to stop
its driver. The latter looked around as if he had
heard something, butV the rapid continuance of

the vehicle on its course rendered useless a repe-
tition of the call.
"Perhaps it is best he didn't discover us,"
said Mr. Toplady, after a moment's silence. And
again they waited. Their chances were not all
gone yet. Soon two little boys came along the
road with fishing-poles in their hands.  They
had evidently been fishing in the stream above.
They could probably give the unlucky bathers
some information respecting the missing clothes,
or could be induced to procure assistance for
them.
" Hallo, boys I" cried Mr. Toplady distinctly,
at the proper moment.
" HeyI What do you warnt ?" said the boys,
stopping in an astonished manner. "Where are
ye ?"
"Here, in the maple-tree V" replied Mr. Mills.
The boys approached and looked up. The
objects which they saw there, were evidently
such as possessed to their youthful minds the
wild appearance of the traditional " crazy
men," for they dropped their poles immediately
and fled upon the wings of terror down the road,
until out of sight.
" The little fools I What were they scared at ?
o dear! it is of no use!" cried Mr. Toplady.
" Yes, it is. Cheer up I" answered Mr. Mills.
" The sun is away down. It will be dark soon,
and then we can go back to the house, or to the
farmer's on the other side of the stream."
It was the only prospect left them. They
waited three-quarters of an hour until the dusky
shades of evening began to prevail, and then
commenced to wend their way through the woods
and bushes, by the side of the road, not toward
the farmer's, as they were afraid of his dogs, but
to the Wagbull mansion itself. By crossing the
rivulet, they could penetrate the thick grove
adjoining the gardens, and by crossing the latter,
reach the rear-court, and the servants' staircase,
and by this they might with due caution gain
their chambers without being seen.  Fortune
appeared to favor them, though at some expense
of their cuticle.
They succeeded in reaching the domestics'
staircase without observation.
" I guess they are not through dinner yet,"
said Mr. Toplady softly. "Go as still as you
can."
Mr. Toplady was right. They had not finished
the dinner, nor even commenced it yet, for
they were awaiting the arrival of the tardy in-
dividuals themselves. Mr. Mills's apartment was
in the front of the third story, directly over Mr.
Toplady's in thesecond. They were both obliged
to pass'the main staircase.  It was best for both
to seek at once Mr. Toplady's room. With one
dash, they ran along the ball, to pass the stairs,
and-it was very, extremely unfortunate, indeed,
but-just as they reached the latter, the dignified
Miss Do Pompenkops and the lovely Bessie came
tripping up the same, with their arms around each
other's waists, to make a hasty preparation for
~dinner, which had finally been ordered. The
sight to their bewildered vision was that of fright-
ful madness, of frenzied lunacy! There were two
wretched, insensate creatures, with desperate
countenances, tearing along in delirious rivalry,
and jostling each other in their frantic career.
Miss Wagbull shrunk back against the wall for
support, while Miss De Pompenkops sank in ap-


122

MR. WINKFIELD.

parent insensibility upon the staircase.  With and of the frequent loans he had made him, hence.
one bound, Mr. Toplady, followed by Mr. Mills, forth to be considered as donations. I vain did
tore into his room, locked the door, and jump- Mr. Beekman manifest his utmost sco -n and in-
ing upon the bed, groaned, clutched the empty dignation at the base supposition of such a trick
air and madly thrust his head between the pil- being played for his benefit. With brazen ef-
lows.                                       frontery, the individual laughed at the one and
accused the other. In vain did the English
-+---                     maid, as the reward of his past and prospective
perfidy, turn state's evidence against him, and
thoroughly expose him by her indignant narra-
CHAPTER LV.                   tive. He had the assurance to tell her that his
RA   E        A    backsliding was the justifiable result of a de-
HIS EXAMPLE IS FOLLOWED BY MR. WAGBULL ficiency in her of the refined requirements of
AND THE OTHER GUESTS.                     wealth and position indispensable to the partner
of such a talented person as he, and the extreme
WHAT occurred at the mansion during the hardihood that he was already secretly engaged
remainder of that dreadful day, or during the to a person who possessed these and many other
next following need not be particularly recited charming attributes in addition. The aroused
here. It is sufficiently unpleasant to be com- daughter of Albion made a furious dash at the-
pelled to relate that Mr. Toplady was confined to recusant delinquent in mingled scorn and rage,
his bed with a severe attack of the rheumatism, but was restrained by Mr. Wagbull, who at once
and that it required all of Moses's affectionate advised his dismissal from the premises.
care to keep the mental agony, which distracted  "Before I go, Mr. Winkfield," continued the
him, from, preying fatally upon his physical indurated wretch, twirling his carpet-bag, and
system.  To crown the astonishment of the turning to the excited Moses, "let me advise
whole house as to the affair, the clothes of the your friend Toplady and the portly young gen-
victims were found in a mysterious bundle in one tieman, if they ever wish to conceal themselves
of the stable-bins, two or three days subsequent- while bathing again, to dive among the weeds at
ly, by one of the horse-boys, and returned with the bottom  and stay there, ha ! ha ! It is a
their contents to the respective owners, uninjured great deal snugger place than up a tree, and one
and complete, with the exception of fifty cents is not so liable to take a cold there, ha! ha '"
in small change, left in one of the pockets of Mr.  This jocose allusion to the unfortunate circum-
Mills, which had probably been confiscated by the stances in which his friends had been placed,
stable-boy, or taken by the penitent thief, ere would have been highly aggravating from any
his conscience had smitten him to this partial act one ; but coming as it did from the very author
of requital.                                9f those wrongs, it was simply a maddening
I Mr. Beekman courteously sympathized with temptation to commit murder. Our hero chased
the misfortunes of hia rival, and never thought, the wretch in his continued fury for over a
for once, that advantage could be taken of them  quarter of a mile, and would have probably over-
by any person, who had such an undoubted right taken him, had he not injudiciously stopped in
to be called a gentleman as he. There was one his rage, to grasp at various missiles upon the
guest in the house, however, who thought other- way. Mr. Barnard, who had with great presence
wise, for shortly after the excitement caused by 0r mind sought the highway leading to the vii.
the return of the bundle was allayed, Mr. De St. lage, some time previous to the dismissal, sue-
Beautd approached the gentlemanly porter of the needed better. After administering to the ex-
whiskers, and with triumphant looks and whispers diplomatist a severe drubbing, he permitted hiun
of jocose assurance, made it apparent at last to to pass to the neighboring railway-station, which
the slow mind of the astounded Bobuts, that the that extraordinary genius did, with hastier steps
thing was the successful result of the implied than usual perhaps, but still with immense satis-
contract between them, and that thid disgrace faction at such an escape, and in particular at
which the rival Toplady was receiving in the Mr. Winkfield's forgetfulness to ask the return
favor of the fair descendant of the Pompenkops, of the numerous financial favors he had benevo-
in consequence of the late untoward violation lently conferred upon him  .
of the consonance of things, was something     Benediction, or the adt of blessing, of wishing
which no one, but the possessor of such illus- to a person the grace of God, has always existed
trious diplomatic talents as his, could have ac- as a custom among the most civilized as well as
complished in so ingenious a manner, or in so barbarous of communities.  The earlier patri-
brief a period.  The overwhelmed Beekman arch of the chosen people when leaving the
stood for a moment utterly aghast, and pulled world, after a short sojourn therein of five or six
his whiskers in idiotic confusion. Then, having hundred years, invoked blessings upon the fu-
promptly pulled the nose of, and kicked the too ture career of the tender infants of one hun-
confdent diplomat, collared him and led him into dred, one hundred and fifty, and two hundred,
the presence of the gentlemen of the house. We who surrounded him at his demise. The Jew-
should have imagined that the feelings of the ex- ish priests of a later age, from the lofty summit
posed wretch would have been more disagreeable of Ebal blessed the whole nation in a pretty
during the ensuing scene, than'those of the other sound manner. In the Roman Catholic church
persons present. But not so. He retained his benedictions are of several kinds, and are per-
vivacity and self-assurance, even in that moment. formed in numerous impressive ways, varying
In fact, they were ineffaceable. In vain did our according to the object upon which they are be-
hero rave, as he thought of his uncle's rhieuma- stowed, to the parts of his physical system in-
tism, of his own generous introduction of such an tended to be reached, or the circumstances of
impostor to the bosom of a respectable family, his vase. Mar. Toplady occupied many moments

-I'MR. WII
of his forced retirement at this period in en-
deavoring to concentrate from the more vehe.
meant examples, which the history of these rites
afforded, one grand comprehensive and crushing
invocation, applicable to the vitals of Mr. De
St. Beauty, and was only sorry that the act of
"the laying on of hands," which accompanied
many of these time-honored -rites, had become
impossible in his case.
By the time he  recovered from his invalid.
ation, the general idea of a return tp the city
was projected, and our party contemplated with
the vigor resulting from a healthful summer-
campaign, the prospective delight of a renewed
acquaintance with the renowned metropolis, and
of again meeting their kind host and his family
at his town-residence.  Miss Do Pompenkops
left among the first, without seeing Mr. Toplady,
it must be confessed, but she nevertheless sent
to him her kindest wishes. Neither he nor Mr.
inehman-bobuts had the pleasure of accompany-
ing her to her home, as perhaps both of them
oriina ly intended.
CHAPTER LVI.
MR. WINKFIELD AND MR. LAMPSON DINE WITH
MR. BARNARD. MR. WINKFIELD THE NEXT DAY
PAYS A. VISIT TO THE SCHOLAR'S VILLA IN
wESTCHESTER.
SHORTLY after the return to the city, Mr. Bar.
nard called upon Mr. Winkfield, and informed
him that he had just emerged from the Museum,
which he had felt it his duty to visit under the
influence of the country feelings he had contract-
ed in New-England; that he had duly seen the
Happy Family, the wax figures, including that of
the Playful Haberdasher, who murdered his wife
and six children, biting off the head of the infant;
and also the other curiosities, according to the
catalogue, comprising tb mud-fish.
"I picked up a curiosity in the Park, too, a
singular genius. An indignant literary bully in
india-rubbers, who had just been in a difficulty in
the Copy-right office about its foreign arraige-
ments, and been put out of it. He took my fancy
and I did his, because I offered to clean out the
establishment for him; and because I resembled,
he said, what his friend Bancroft, the historian,
used to be, according to the miniatures, at the
close of the last century. Bully for B3ancroft !
The india-rubber. man is going to dine with me
this evening, and I think I will make it an extra-
ordinary spread, in honor of our safe return to
the white settlements. I want you, Mr. Toplady,
and little Tit!",
Mr., Toplady was absent at a Norwich Electric
Institute, having concluded to try the efficacy of
Connecticut lightning, instead of Massachusetts
water, for his infirmity of spirit, and Mr. Titman
had been most mysteriously missing the entire
day.
SWell, you come. With the aid of the copy-
right man you and I can manage it," replied Mr.
Barnard. E8                   i   P       -
Upon reaching the latter's rooms in the even-
-ing Moses found that the banquet was extraordi-
nary, both in quantity and quality, that the mar-
kets had been ransacked for the material, ad
the Maison Dorde had deputed its finest intellect

NKFIELD.                                 123
for the preparation. le was surprised to hear
the name of Numhead mentioned as he entered,
and gratified to find that Mr. Barnard's curiosity
was the eccentric scholar of the Archmological
Library, Mr. -Lampson.  The latter appeared
thinner and more care-worn than ever, which Mo-
ses attributed to close application during the
summer in the preparation of the great work. le
nevertheless seemed highly inspirited by the
doubly-agreeable sight of the banquet and Moses,
and when the ceremonies were commenced, paid
an impartial attention to both, as the most cour.
teous method of signifying his eminent satisfac-
tion at the hospitality of Mr. Barndrd. When
Moses in a neat speech proposed their host's
health, characterizing him as a manly, amusing,
instructive and hospitable friend, Mr. Lampson in
a loud voice applauded every epithet, and when
that of hospitable was mentioned, cheered vigor-
ously, and sent his plate around for another bird
with iereased enthusiasm. He seemed for the
moment to have thrown off his literary dignity,
and while enjoying the pleasures of the board,
endeavored to repay them by a social use of his
muse. Clio brought out ber unwritten records,
and secret anecdotes of the great struggle for
American liberty; many being such as had never
been divulged to the public ,upon the printed
page, and many such as could not well be, on ac-
count of Mrs. Boffin. Our hero joined in, and
sang the inflexible virtue of the founders of na-
tions and endeavored to show that the more a
community knew of civilization and the amenities
of life, the more profligate it became. le was
occupied with a heavy quotation, from the fifth
chapter of Sir Thomas More, highly applicable to
thigh point,.when le was interrupted by a slight
altercation between the host and the scholar.
"Take one of these pat6s," said the former,
as Mr. Lampson manifested a relaxation of his
prandial vigor.
"Oh ! no. No more."
"lavd some of the pickled oysters, then," said
the host.
"Oh! no. I think I have done enough. I can't!
replied the guest.
"But you shall," insisted the host.
"No, sir. I don't wish to."
What you don't wish to! I won't have any
of that nonsense. Take 'em," continued the host
excitedly. "Here, John1"
- I positively decline. I will not have them,"
said Mr. Lampson, bawling at the top of his voice
under the pressure of self-defense.
- D-n it! I'll see whether you will or not !1
said the host ferociously.
"Very well, then. i11 try one or two more I"
replied the unhappy historian. And to hide his
growing incapacity from the sensitive host, he
signed to pick at the bivalves, and commenced
another little higtorival anecdote. While he went
oi, now emulating the heroes lie was talking
about, and making history instead of chronicling
it, Mr. Barnard plied him with wine, that his flag-
ging appetite might be revived, and at the sanie
time generously kept ahead of him to cheer him
Thereupon, in amicable return, the scholai- in-
formed them of his own nice tastes ui) the art of
eating, of the recherchi6 little dinners lhe was ac-
custoined now atnd then to give at the snug box
at Westchester, and expressed a strong desire


MR. WINKFIELD-

that both Moses and Mr. Barnard should speedily (
do him and his wife the honor to assist at one ofT
these quiet affairs.               -
During the progress of the banquet and whenI
all were quite busily engaged with the various
delicacies before them, Moses incidentally noticed
a most curious action upon the part of the schol-
ar, which he held was undoubtedly to be attrib-
uted to the eccentricity of genius, under the in-
fluence of social mirth  He saw him at a certain
point glance furtively about the room, and then
suddenly slip into his pocket a woodcock fromI
big plate. Presently, three Fren6h rolls adroitlyI
followed, and shortly afterward, during the tem-
porary absence of the waiter, the half of a chicken
mysteriously disappeared from before the scholars
and undoubtedly flew to the nest of the wood-
cock. Though this pleasantry was frequently
repeated with other substantial articles, at various
stages of the banquet thereafter, Moses conjec-
tured it to be the preliminary arrangement of some
magical trick, which the genius -purposed perform-
ing during the evening, and went on with his own
share of the festivity. For the seventh time in
his worldly career, our herp attempted to smoke
after the dessert, and the effect of this effort with
that of the champagne, of the boisterous hilarity
of the host, and of the learned disquisitions of
the disciple of history, made the scene somewhat
indistinct for a while.
"I'll tell you what let's do,"exclaimed Barnard
with a rather thick utterance. "Let's change
coats, go into the street, and have a lark. You
take mine, Winkfield; I'll take Lampson's ; and
Lampson can take yours !"
"No, no," interposed the scholar, starting ner-
vously. "Never, sir, never  I'll consent to go
into the street, but not to change coats. It is not
dignified, sir. Never! sir."
As Moses at once sustained the scholar, the
affable host did not press the proposition, but in
amicable revenge compelled the latter to drink
another glass of wine Mr. Lampson did so, and
presently consented to another. Very shortly he
agreed to a third, and thereupon insisted upon a
large number more in rapid succession, until he
was finally inhabilitated- from an erect posture, or
a proper view of historical and other mundane
things. It was not remarkable, therefore, that,
at this point, he should indiscriminately attempt
to put bottles of wine, plates, knives, forks, and
other articles openly and violently into his pocket,
He seemed also to be suddenly possessed with
the idea that Mr. Barnard had been for a long
period the enemy of his children, and indistinctly
called upon Moses to contrast the ease and lux-
ury of that gentleman with their want and misery.
He also took into his head the singular idea of
alluding to the banquet and to his host's unbound-
ed hospitality, in terms of quite furious disap-
proval, and ejaculated repeatedly from his sofa
sugh strong expressions as "D-n his dinner!
D-n his salad !" etc., until incapacitated from
saying any thing at all.
Mr. Barnard, observing his condition, proposed
to Moses that they should murder him "for a
lark." But after a considerable discussion, im
which Moses showed that he was rapidly be-
coming infected, with the slang phrases of the
day, they left him gently slumbering upon the
sofa, and sallied together into the street. Our
hero had subsequently an imdistinct remembrance

of attending, among other scenes, the cere-
monies of a midnight baptism, in a temple of
high-church proclivities, of being compelled by
Mr. Barnard to accompany him to the font,
among the number of the confirmed, and of that
gentleman's coming away therefrom with the im-
pression that he had been shampooed. We will
not dwell upon the remorse and shame of our
hero, upon endeavoring in vain to find, unaided,
the key-hole of his door at a later hour. Suffice
it to say, his faithful servitor, Brunswick, did so
for him, and also held his bed,,util he was ena-
bled to place himself upon it, and sink into
oblivion.I
The next morning, the first thoughts which oc-
cupied him, were those which the previous night's
society with the historical scholar gave rise to.
He remembered the impression he had received
during the progress of the banquet, despite the
scholar's vivacious air, and boasting references
to the convivial appliances of his own home, that
there frequently appeared an expression upon
his countenance, indicative of the mental agony,
which results from a very keen consciousness of
the rigors of poverty. His ddd allusion to the
misery of his family, and his singular acts in
pocketing articles of food from the table, now
received in Moses's mind a harrowing solution.
Could it be that his family, his wife and little
ones, were suffering at that moment, that they
even needed those articles? Moses reviewed
his antecedents, and considered the struggling
life, the traditional poverty and pride of literary
characters. With fervent restlessness, he break-
fasted, hastily repaired to Mr. Barnard's dwelling,
aqd to the library, but finding the scholar at
neither of these places, resolved to satisfy his
generous impulses by seeking him at his home in
Westchester.
.He soon reached Harlem, and in that pic.
iuresque suburb, was directed to the butcher, as-
one most likely to be favored with a knowledge
of Mr. Lampson's residence.0
" Lampson! It's the leg-of-mutton man i"
said the butcher's man, jogging, the latter's
memory. "Don't you know he said his name
was that? I remember it from its sounding like
sheep, I mean lambs!"
Upon further inquiry Moses discovered that
the scholar occasionally bought a leg of mutton
there, and did it with such an overwhelming air
of patronage, and took it off with him with such
apparent fear of its not reaching its destination,
that he had become inseparably and facetiously
associated in the assistant butcher's mind with
-that article of food.
"We run our carts up that way sometimes,
boss. Yes, I knows where he liveth, my lord !"
replied the butcher.  And after Moses had
received from that prolixious immolator, almost
confusig direction, in which highways, and cross-
roads, and lanes, and corner-lots, and bridges,
and "Mr. Johnsonses country-seat, and Mr.
Smithses country-seat," were incoherently mixed
up. he started off, and at once penetrated the
wilds of Westchester. It was a pleasant day,
and that, with the vehemence of his purpose,
dissipated the fatigue which would otherwise
have resulted from the numerous mistakes which
he made in the course of his search. He wan-
dered about in a country which was all Mr.
Lampson had described it--well stocked with

124

MR. WINKFIELD-

still-born cities, geese, and retired German shoe-
makers.
"Where does this road lead, my friend ?" said
he to one of these intelligent beings, as he ap-
proached a hill.
" Up de hill !"
" Where does this road lead, my friend ?" said
he to another whom he met upon the apex of the
acclivity.
"Down de hill I"
Another undertook to direct him to Mr.
Thompson's country-seat, by employing as land.
marks a flock of geese, a man with a red head,
" a field mit some drees," "and Mrs. Meyer, de
vooman vot's zeek mit de leetle shild." At the
High Bridge, its keeper, after a concentrated
moment of disgust, pity, scorn, and rage, because
he had not come expressly to examine that cele-
brated architectural triumph, magnanimously con.
seated to point out to him from it, the coun-
try-seat of Mr. Thompson, peeping through the
trees a half-mile beyond. Moses soon approached
this splendid mansion, and entered the beautiful
and elaborately ltid-out grounds, which sur-
rounded it. There was a party of ladies and gen-
tlemen upon its balcony, and as lie descried among
them one or two. extremely interesting young
ladies, it was natural that he should assume as digni-
fied a demeanor as possible in approaching them.
"They have evidently.caught sight of me,"
thought he. He was quite correct. Not only
had they observed him, but a large black dog,
lying at an adjacent stable, had remarked his en-
trance, and proceeded at once to resent it as an
unwarrantable intrusion. As he had no stick
with him, he very properly ran ,at the approach
of this animal. And after he had once com-
menced that rapid method of locomotion, it was,
of course, unwise to distract his energy by at-
tempting to select a particular path for his
course. He therefore continued to career for
some moments in various ones, within view of
the balcony, and pursued by the irrepressible
dog, who was accompanied in the excitement of
the chase by another and smaller one, who had
started simultaneously from the balcony. Final-
ly the dogs overtook him, and while the poodle
stood by and barked violently at him, the honest
watch-dog inserted his teeth in his pantaloons,
and held him in a very awkward position, until
he was released by a servant, amid the excite-
ment and perhaps ill-concealed merriment of the
witnesses of the pursuit.
"Never mind touching your hat," said he has-
tily to the polite domestic. "Hold him, or he
will come at me again!"
The proprietor of the mansion came up and
angrily ordered the dogs to be taken off and
whipped.
"Oh 1 nolsir I I beg of you not," said Moses,
magnanimously, as the traces of his indignation
faded away at the apologies of the gentleman,
who asked him toward the house.
" They think you are a tramper !" said the
gentleman-.
" Yes, I am somewhat dusty,"' replied Moses
smiling, " and after all, they only did their duty,
you know."
"Butt the gentleman does not for all that wish
to he exposed to fears of hydrophobia," sympa-
thetically interposed a young lady, evidently tak-
en with Moses's manners-.

" Oh ! never mind that. 1 am not at all afraid
of that," replied the gallant Moses, laughing.
"This is a very intelligent young gentleman,
Thorne," said a red-nosed man seated near. "He's
not fool enough to be afraid of hydrophobia.
Neither am I. Lief have it as not !"
He was no doubt sincere, for from appear-
ances he had had it all his life, that is, as far
as antipathy to water was concerned. "Take a
glass of wine," said he. And as our hero cour-
teously accepted, he immediately advanced still
further in the estimation of this personage. He
was much surprised to find that the possessor of
such wealth and magnificence did not know who
were his neighbors, for it was only through the
hitherto latent knowledge of a servant that the
scholar's home was discovered to be near by.
After politely finishing the agreeable episode.
Moses sought Lampson's residence, and found it
amid a grove of trees. Lampson had certainly
been right, he thought, in preferring the fresh
air of the country to the stifling, mephitic atmos-
phere of a city garret, even if the house was
somewhat dilapidated. For the sake of the schol-
ar's pride, he determined to reconnoitre before
he entered. The road wound toward it, and there
was a little hedge which divided Its garden from
a large field. He concluded to secrete himself
behind this hedge. Mr. Lampson and his wife
were seated together upon a small front portico.
The husband took the hand of his wife, as she
refrained for the moment from her work. The
sadness of poverty was too evident in her smile
and the bitterness in his manner.
" Louisa, I might complete the book at once,
but I must be thorough. It needs only one or
two important facts to be decided, and then the
world shall have it !" said he.
" And have you determined which publisher
shall have it ?" asked the wife anxiously.
"No, not yet. I intend. to receive proposals
from them first, and then impartially decide.
Some must be disappointed," said the scholar,
and an air of pity spread over the infatuated
gentleman's face.
"But that can not be helped, Joseph," replied
the wife. "I would not let that trouble me !"
'I think I will confine any arrangement I
make with them to the first fifty editions. After
the first fifty thousand I certainly ought to have
better terms," continued the scholar in pleased
meditation.
"Certainly. Think of the labor and care you
have bestowed upon it !" said the wife.  "But,
Joseph, had not you better decide quickly who
shall have it, and then you know you can per-
haps procure a sum in advance upon it !"
" My dear, it shall be finished immediately$ I
Yes, and my own Louisa shall work no more I"
continued the husband rather savagely. ".No
more figers aching, and no more eyes aching!"
"It'is not for me, Joey I" said the wife, glanc-
ing sadly at the two boys, who had built a mag-
nificent palace in the sand, and were just then
engaged in celebrating its completion by a grand
dinner at its side, on a fragment of crockery
and two chips.
"Wife! you too shall have daily the very
best food which Delmonico can give ! You shall
have course after course. You shall be all day
at the table !" continued the husband in the
wildness of his bitterness. " You shall have new

125


MR. WINKFIELD-

MR. WINKFIELD.

dresses of the choicest fabrics, at the reign of come upon him in fuller force than ever. "There
each succeeding fashion. A carriage with live- is an existence," said he,, with springs of thought
ries, constantly in attendance, shall await--"'  and feeling-and action, deeper than we can search.
Here little Joe who ad plucked a dandelion These springs rise from an unknown depth, and
for his banquet, offered it to his mamma, and in that depth there seems to be a oneness of feel-
then playfully snatched it away to present it to ig with another, which we can not distinctly be-
his papa. Moses nearly fell headlong through hold, but which we believe to be there; while
the hedge at this, in his desire to ug the child, irreconcilable circumstances floating on the sur-
He refrained, however, from a fear that if he en- face of actions, obscure our light and render it
tered Lampson might undertake to put him off vain to discover the source whence it flows."
of the premises.  The boys were bare-footed,  Here, as his uncle appeared to be diving very
and they were otherwise much in need of prop- deep to discover these springs, and seemed to'
r clothing, but they were rugged, hardy little have got into some difficulty in doing so, Moses
fellows,                                    rescued him by sympathetically observing " cer-
lIt will do them   good.  It is healthy!" taily V"
thought Moses rather fiercely in is nest.  "In fact, I feel, Moses, th-at something has died "
Well, little boy Joe and Tom, come here, continued he gloomily, ", chord which echoed to
boys"W continued the exercised father. "What that which is gone, has snapped in twain. What
say you, boys, which do you like best, plum  ud- is that feeling of regret and lonely sorrow? Some
ding, pound cake, or- y e"                 part of our own existence, some mystic essence
dNv, pound, ever mind. Papa loves Tom has vanished from our being. There is a void in
"Never mind, nvrmd         aalvsomtehatweete                   Lhtaserdt       ht
and Josie," said the wife hastily, "because they the heart, where the life that answered to that
are a good Tom and Joe. And, my boys, you life is dead u"
love him, for what he brings you already, don't 11"Never mind, uncle," responded Moses. "Cheer
y9"7                                      up, I beg of you, banish these gloomy feelings.
you shall have pudding and plum-cake bth  She-she will return from Europe soon 1"
every day " continued the father recklessly.  6"I can return to the city at any moment if you
"You shall, by heaven, boys "              should feel my absence, Moses," replied Mr. Top-
"Oh I we are going to have plum-cae and lady, lighting up momentarily. "At any rate I
pudding every day V' exclaimed the little fellows think a short sojourn in a place of retirement will
in excitement, and gamboling about with unus- revue me."
ual f-iskiess.As soon as he was gone, Brunswick sought a
ual friskiness.                                               .                   Znltd
Moses waited to hear no more. He fled from  special audience of his master, wherein he related
his hiding-place. He ran part of the way through an event which had occurred in d;onnectio  with
the woods to shorten his course to Harlem. Un- the affairs of his step-mother, and which was ex-
der cover of the groves he blew his nose vio- tremely remarkable; thai is, when the advanced
lently as he approached the village, and arriving state of civilization in the United States is taken
there, immediately directed his footsteps to the into consideration. It seems that the religious
butcher's. He there made such anonymous ar. fervor,ewhich Brunswicks female relatives ad
rangements as would place the needy scholar in experienced at the camp-meeting,had stirred up
possession of the funds lie had brought in his its accompanying virtues to such a degree, that her
pocket, and after abusing the conductor of the lover compassionately took occasion to give her
car all the way in returning to the city, at last an opportunity of exercising the noble one of char-
reached his home, to think what he should next ity, by bringing to her house, shortly after their
do in the matter.                           return fromthe camp-meeting, ts grandfather, a
S decrepid, toothless colored gentleman, a fd estab-
4                    * listing him as a boarder in her second-story front
bedroom. Though the society of this individual
was accompanied by all the difficulties which
CHAPTER    LVII.               surround that of octogenarians, the. kind female
proceeded at once to attend to his wants, and
THE HIGH-CHURCH IN SUMMER LANE.        nurse his aed being with all the enthusiasm of
SHORTLY after the return to the 'city, Mr. Top- woman's nature. Upon Brunswick's return with
lady learned that Miss De Pompenkops had gone our hero from the country, he found the- old gen-
to-Europe with her family. Whether the severe tleman so firmly established in her home,that he
shock to her sensibility, which she had received saw it would be useless to make any violent at-
at Mr. Wagbull's country mansion, induced her tempts to eject him. Latterly, however, destiny
to take this step, or whether it was the rumor in appeared to have assisted him in his desire to re-
society that the Prince of Wa-les, to the conster- niove from its fastening this morally strong bower
nation of his mother and other high authorities of Mr. Lommeydew's hopes, by an event constitute
of his country, had again given himself up to his ing the extraordinary occurrence abovetreferred
infatuation for American ladies' society, we know  to. , The ancient grandsire had frequently mani-
not.' But both Mr. Beekman-bobuts and Mr. fested a moroseness and willful authority in his
Toplady well knew that they were out of favor intercourse with his hostess, and on more than
with her, the affable De Bobuts being quite ban- one occasion she found him expressing a desire
ishbd from her presence, and Mr. Toplady abiding to be left alone amid his muttering and mut bin,
in partial grace. The latter signified his deter- as he nursed his aged limbs in the little yard, and
mination of again retiring to some sequestered several times, wdhe te war impulses ofpar-
place, meet for self-communion and repose. It hospitaiy inucd hermosil to eki in hingprss.
mattered little to him whither he went, as long meat, se foundi iposilet oti ainrss-f
as he found solitude. The old' feeling of the As these manifstations werethewnatal hanes o
wearine5a and staleness of existence had now  age an  nimt, seknl      loe    i  ohv

126

127

lis own way, and delicately permitted him to en.
joy the solitude which he wished to cherish. But
a few days of this arrangement had elapsed, how-
ever, when her attention was attracted one after
noon to his chamber, by the extraordinary pecu
hiarity of the stifled sounds which she heard
emanating therefrom. They appeared to be of a
devotional nature, but still did not seem to par-
take at all of either the calm intensity, or rational
enthusiasm, which members of the Christian.com-
munity are accustomed to manifest in their re-
ligious exercises. On the contrary, uncouth sup-
plications for the favor of some superior being,
seemed eccentrically mingled with entreaties to the
same to eat, to drink, to make rain, and to destroy,
and with expressions of joy at the apparent grati-
fication thereof; or with notes of despair at the
imagined refusal. Then again the votary ap-
peared to be engaged in a prolonged dance about
the chamber, and incoherent defiances to enemies
in war and animals were uttered in tones of des-
perate joy.  These ceremonies were interspersed
with frequent musical appliances, in the rude
beating of some small instrument like a dull un-
resonant drum, or the expression of short and
barbarous songs in an unintelligible tongue. Take
them all in all, the sounds seemed more the result
of some uncivilized being engaged in the savage
worship of a diabolical god, than those which
should inspire the upright Christian in the sacred
exercise of his devotions. With startled emotions,'
the humble yet honest believer in the sublime
doctrines of civilization crept cautiously to the
door of the chamber above, and there was enabled
to observe, by means of the keyhole, a sight
which shocked her being with mingled sensations
of terror and Christian indignation. In the mid-
dle of the room, a small but hideous image of
wood, of frightful, fiendish features, stared with
carved ferocity into vacancy. A string of beads
hung around its neck. An old coat and bed-
blanket draped its body and lower features, while
its head was surmounted with what the observer
recognized as the remains of one of her old straw-
bonnets, divested of its front and placed in a
cocked position. Upon the top of this was stuck,
in grotesque irregularity, a single feather, which
had evidently been lately torn by the devotee
from the tail of the stately male fowl of the premi-
ses, for the adornment of his horrible divinity.
The infatuated heathen, after all the varied con-
tact with believers in the Christian world, and all
their sublime teachings, it was plain, still adhered,
even at this late moment of his existence, to the
belief in the god of his African boyhood, and the
mystic Mumbo Jumbo had in Christendom at least
one other lucid worshiper, besides Dr. Pusey and
his disciples.
" You eat. You make de rain. Borriboo, kina
bomba! kina bomba !    What for you no eat,
you dam rascal? I make you eat. Tongo kin-
Iiieum squattux! You like um drink better ?'
Very well, you drink dis time !" continued the
heathen, who bad boon worked up by this pre-
ference of the deity into a frenzy of mingled ex-
postulation and entreaty.
After a muttered incantation, accompanied by
a short tattoo upon the band-box, which heheld
in his hand, the wretched Ethiopian placed a
bottle at the mouth of the deity with beseeching
entreaty, and was in the act of putting it to his
own, when the excited eye-witness. in all the

- stoutness of her Christianity, burst into the room,
t pushed the fragile worshiper from the hideous
- embodiment of his hopes, pushed over the latter,
- and ended by throwing it out of the window,
- blanket, bonnet and all.
" Well, that is the most extraordinary thing I
ever heard of!'" cried our hero, who had been lis-
- tening in wrapt astonishment to the recital of his
domestic.  "It certainly is a most astonishing
and unheard of proceeding !"
" An't it, sir ?" continued Brunswick. "The
old man couldn't do nothin'. He's so thin-shank-
ed, sir, he once broke his leg, putting' on his pan-
taloons."
" But what has your mother done since ?" in-
quired Moses. "Does she keep him there still ?"
" Oh ! no, sir," replied Brunswick. "She tus-
sled with him, and took him off at once to the
police office, but findin' she couldn't do nothin'
with him there, she handed him   over to. the
deacons of Shiloh. There's a great row in the
church, sir, about it. A meeting next week has
been got up to convert him, and all the members
are to be there. Lommeydew says it is the only
Way to save him1!"
"Upon my word, Brunswick," continued Moses,
"I-I should like extremely to be there.   I
would indeed !"
" And you can be, sir," replied the domestic.
"There'll'not be many white folks there, but I
will show you a good seat."
"I shall not intrude, shall I, Brunswick ?"
asked Moses.
" Oh ! no, sir. There's a good place in the gal-
lery, behind the organ.  Only you had better
come alone, perhaps," said the domestic, delicate-
ly referring to the likely forgetfulness of - strict
decorum, which Mr. Barnard and Mr. Titan
might manifest upon such an occasion.
" Very right, very right.  I will," replied
Moses.
-+--
CHAPTER LVIIIL
THE ACADEMY OF DESIGN. Two SCHOLARS.
Ma. TITMAN, in the pursuit of the little novelties
and excitements which city life afforded, custom-
arily preferred the society of our hero, Mr. Top.
lady, or some other friend, as the pleasures of
thought and feeling aroused by the numerous in-
cidents of his peripatetic efforts were naturally
much increased by the division of labor and re-
sponsibility, the sense of security, and the inter-
change of philosophical criticisms therein. His
repeated and prolonged absences from his friends
shortly after their return to the city, had, there-
fore, occasioned some remark by Moses, and also
caused Mr. Barnard to express some surprise at
not finding him with Moses when lie invited the
latter-to dine with him, The object of this chap-
ter will be to explain this little inequality in his
habits, and we shall hereafter relate an interest-
ing incident which happened to him about the
time that Mr. Barnard hospitably required his
presence.
Being of a highly esthetic nature, or at least
feeling so from his professional connection with
the fine arts, he felt it due both to himself and
to the latter, to frequently visit the various gal,


123

MR. WINKFIELD.

leries of painting .and statuary in the city; and requested the pleasure of assisting her to her
of these, he devoted much leisure time to the carriage, to which she blushmgly consented. At
Academy of Design, as this excellent institution  the door she stopped to recover from the custody
appeared to offer the largest opportunity of seeing of the janitors a little pet spaniel, and Mr. Titman
and being seen to the lovers of the beautiful.  suggesting to her the possibility of danger to the
One morning, after having made the tour of favorite, arising from contact in the street below
critical inspection in these rooms, according to  with larger and unprincipled animals of the same
the approved fashion of shading the eyes, cocking species, kindly insisted upon carrying the Fido in
the head, assuming different distances, and in- his arms to the carriage. In this gallant avt he
dulging in various grimaces intended to be ex- succeeded, with the trifling incident of being bit-
pressive of the emotions caused by the1different ten in three places upon his arms, and suffering
works of genius in view, he undertook to placidly complex laceration of one of his coat-sleeves,
join in the conversation of a party of dowagers by the affectionate animal, whose temper had
in one part of the room, upon the subject of their been temporarily soured in his late bondage
family management, and in particular, to benevo- among the canes and umbrellas. But Mr. Titman
lently applaud one of them, who expressed a de- presently forgave the animal-ay, conceived an
termination to put her daughter Julia into oil, as affection for him. In agitated tones and manner,
soon as she had finished the month in water. the result of observing Mr. Titman's surreptitious
Being rather abashed and intimidated by the efforts to mollify his personal anguish, by rub-
furious tosses of the head, suppressed snorts and bing his wounds, the young lady felt it her duty
other measures, which the indignant ladies imme- to tender him at once her tanks, apology and
diately took to express their disapproval of this cardd; 'and with a sweet smile of condolence left
slight intrusion, he retreated to a distant and him standing, in pleased excitement, and regard-
somewhat less frequented part of the gallery. less of his smarts, upon the curb-stone.
Here his attention was gradually attracted to a  The next day Mr. Titman called at her hotel,
young lady seated alone in front of, and pensively and sent up his card; and during the rival dis-
gazing at, what he supposed was the fanciful pre- play of ceremonious affability which presently
sentment of a gorilla, executed by some facetious ensued, they were delighted to discover that they,
artist, but which was designated in the catalogue had attended different parties given by the same'
as the portrait of the artist himself. She was a individual. Mr. Titman went back to his nimth
tall and thin girl, and perhaps not younger than ancestor, and walked away from the hotel with
he, but there was a refined bearing about her, the the proud consciousness that he could call again.
effect of which was momentarily heightened by We feel we shall be excused if we fail to par-
her teder, contemplative attitude, and soft mel. tieularize the incidents of one or two of his suc-
ancholy expression. He insensibly walked near ceeding visits. It is sufficient to know that the
her to examine an adjacent effort at sentiment ineipient feeling of earnest affection which start-
upon- the wall, entitled The Dying Sisters, and ed in his momentary fascination before the pm.-
which, apart from its own intrinsic effect, had sence of the gorilla, increased with his intimacy
been harmoniously hung by the ingenious com- with Miss Bobby.
mittee, to unite with thatof the gorilla, in one  Upon his third visit, the latter divulged to him,
grand illustration of the physical results of fright her family relations in such a delicate manner as
upon timid natures'                         to prove to him that in character, estate, and re-
The lady, aroused from her contemplative mu- ciprocity of feeling, she was all that he had asked
sing over the work of art before her by Mr Tit- for in his fastidious ideal. The pensive gloom
man's presence, cast a glance at him. Presently and uneasiness which at times had pervaded her
he dropped his catalogue, which fell at her feet. manner was then explained. She was an orphan,
He jumped hastily toward it, removed it, and left with an only brother, who appeared to be
expressed an ardent solicitude to be assured she wanting in a natural share of fraternal affection
had not been injured by its fall.  The lady con- -a young man who consorted with fin-men, aid,
vinced him of her personal safety, whereupon seemed determined that his sister should remain
Mr. Titman formally thanked her for relieving through life permanently bereaved of lovers. Mr.
him from his anxious apprehensions. The lady Titman learned, with terrible indignation, that
then modestly coughed, and Mr. Titnian feigned he had even made the heartless remark to her
to seize the opportunity of gratifying a little ama- that "no one wanted her, but her money."
teur enthusiasm, by observing, in reply to the "He has made the cruel threat that he will
cough, that the display was " very fine ;" which he assassinate any one who shows the slightest pre-
was quite sure of, for he felt that at least the ference for my society !" continued the young
size of the pictures and the quantity of paint lady sorrowfulfly..                .
laid on most of them exceeded any thing he had  Mr. Titinan started slightly at this, but imme-
ever before beheld. Aroused by the encomium, diately recovered a firm demeanor.
the demure lady ventured to ask hinfor his opi-  "I have asked you to share this confidence
nioaupon one in particular, a conception of the with me, Mr. Titman," proceeded the young lady,
Temple of Fame, near by, whereat Titman at " forI I have feared that you might o otherwise at-
once launched forth into an elaborate artistic dis- tribute my somewhat abrupt termination of this
course thereon, in which he astonished himself interview to my own desire. It is not so.aThe
with the number of technical phrases he suc- hour of his return home is approaching, and I
ceeded in using, and winding up by powerfully feel'really that it is better that you should not
quoting Knoblesdorff upon the architecture of the meet hin. Oh ! I am so unhappy 1"
temple, established himself in his fair auditor's At this, Mr. Titman hastily jumped up ezedtul
mind as a gentleman of high culture and undoubt- his hat, seized her hand, imprinted aepecfu
ed taste in more than one of the fine arts. She kiss thereon, and with .some hurred word  o
thenmodestly rose to go, whereupon Mr. Titman sympathetic indignation, agailet Whnn

estret, he resutely dermined, with clenched  coming, I bought a winter suit apiece for them,
fist, to-to obey Miss Bobby's wishes in the mnat- eh Vs
ter, and avoid the mercenary brother. And to   "Quite right I" exclaimed Moses in deep in-
shun the presence of the disagreeable young  terest.  IAnd tey are well and healthy ? How
Bobby became henceforth an eccentric part of arethe little fellows now ?"
the ceremony of his visits to the Marrycomeup  "Oh! finely. In splendid health, sir. Lively
House, though he perhaps consoled himself for and merry as crickets.  They have glorious
this restraintin hoping the time would come  appetites, eating and drinking, nnd eating all
when he might authoritatively meet and openly  day. However, they take a good deal of exercise,
ft this unworthy relative with the vehemence  and they are not at all injured by the surfeiting!"
of his indignation.                            "And your wife enjoys good health, too, I
hope ?" asked Moses.
"Oh! yes. Yes, sir. That is, certaly, she
is just like the children, joining in all their
CHAPTER    LIX.                 healthful sports and  feasts,"  continued  the
scholar, rising in sudden agitation, and prepar,
THE SCHOLAR LOSES HIS GRIP. THE POOTOOPIAN   ing to go. "And she will only be too happy
DFMoCRAcY.                   to see you. You must come. You must come.
It will be pleasant for you, I assure you, and--"
SaOiTLY after his Visit to Westchester, Moses  He stopped his words, yet lingered, and, his
again went to the Library, and there had the voice falling, he Indistinctly muttered something.
satisfaction of finding the historical scholar, Unobservant of Moses's disturbed look, he was
whom lie insisted should return with him to the  about to finally shake hands with him, when he
Evercroft House to dine      dhurriedly asked him for a small advance on his
"Ime shall dine early to-day, and you will have  forthcoming work, and then broke down com-
time to reach home before it is dark," said he.  pletely.
" But you have not yet been to see iue at ny  "My children are starving! My wife is dying
little box, you know, and some day I will order by inches. I am a God-forsaken wretch, unable
the carriage to come in for me ' replied the  to provide for them!" cried he in reckless de-
lcbular in the old style; "and then I can stay  spair.
later."                                        Moses rushed convulsively to his dressing-case,,
Iloes adroitly mentioned the great historical  returned, placed something in the hands of his,
work, and the author bolted incontinently with  friend, and in a vain attempt to master his own
him  ti the hotel.  That magnificent subject feelings, peremptorily ordered Brunswick, who
unnecessarily took up the chief part of the conver- at that moment had gently opened the door to-
sation at dinner, mind such was the warmth with  enter, to leave the room.
which Moses shared his interest in it, that the  " Well, I swear!" exclaimed the ystified
school lingered with him in his private parlor,  domestic, as lie left. "If they wasn't both on
to extort a promise of his fulfilling the one hie  em cryin' I ha'n't got no eyes  I'll take my
bad so     c frequently made, to visit "the snug little  oath, they was both sheddin' tears !*
box at Westchester."                           "Now I wish you to confide in me, and call
We have a few neighbors. Pleasant people, upon me freely, whenever you need a-ssistance.
but on the whole we have preferred to live some- You understand! I expect it !" resumed Moses,
what seclued. hoTe pleasures of attending to our having recovered himself.
own little household, you know, have kept us " will ! I will) and my book shall repay YOU t)"
somewhat from visitingthem. There are a selet replied the other excitedly.
few, however. They think every thing of the    "Never mind. You must not sacrifiethat
boys."                                       work by any rash, premature movements, Mr.
" And they are sensible people !" said Moses. Lampson !" continued Moses. "It is a work which
"Ha! hal I must tell you. Positively the   ought to have money expended upon it, rather
other day, one of them affably sent the children  than earning it if justice were done to it"Sir"
twenty-five dollars in a hrown envelope to sur-  Then it shall be dedicated to you !" cried the
prise the little fellows. We think it is an old scholar, in a magnanimous bur-st. "I i',tended
lady with a glass eye, living up the road. We  the dedication for Bancioft.bBut it Shall be to
are not much acquainted with' her, but she saw  you "
them on the road once, and said she liked their  Moses delicately declined this unexpected
looks. That is the way with women, you know, chance for immortality.
pleased with any thing well-looking. I rather  *"Well then, the German edition shall be in-
think she wants to adopt Tom. But she can't do  scribed to you !" continued the scholar in per-
it! She can't*-do it !" reiterated the scholar, sistent gratitude.
with symptoms of.violence. "She needn't think  Moses repeated his gentle refusal.
the can do that !"                            "4What do you say then to the blue andgold
"C ertainly not," said Moses sympathetically. edition for the drawing-rooms?"  asked the
"She certainly would not entertain the idea. genius dubiously.
Though natural, it is still too presumptuous." "No. No."
"It is a singular thing about those boys. "Or the vellum edition for corner-stones ?"
They actually preferred clothes to toys; wanted  As Moses was still firm in his declensions, the
something sensible to remember the old lady by. school, after expressing some disappointment,
Now I. for my part, like to see children fond of again reverted to his own condition.
toys and sweetmeats, don't you V," continued Mr. " I might temporarily get a place, perhaps !'
lkmpson, with an air of regret. " However, I suggested he earnestly
thought I would gratify them, and as winter is " Certaily-where you could occupy yourself

MR. WINKFIELD.

129


130                               MR. WINKFIELD.
part of the time, with leisure to pursue your presiding sat, a small ta p in front of it,dand a
historical researches P" replied- Moses. wooden settee. The persons present, beside two
"hSome public office would be verypleasant I" or three doubtless steady adherents of the judge,
continued Mr. Lampson.                      were four Irishmen and a German, whom the
nWithout doubt, and highly honorable. Great faithful constable had collected from the street.
mny literary men live through their lives in that These latter were all crowded upon this settee,
way. It is a kind of relief to their intellectual directly in front of the chair, at which they were
toil. And the salary is certainly a pleasant sub- staringwith evidently very imperfect conceptions
statute for drafts on posterity," continued Moses, of the movement, though with the general idea
smiling,                                    of proudly assisting as naturalized citizens in the
"I have thought of the Custom House," said political drama of the day, and no doubt the
the scholar in enthusiasm.                  particular one of being called upon presently to
" The very place. Yes, and I will at once oc. take a drink in the front room, by the officers of
cupy myself with securing an appointment there. the meeting. Moses listened with attention to
I will busy myself with my friends, Mr. Lampson. the deliberations, and soon learned the nature of
I have some, wlto, I am sure, possess the right the movement. Not only had the judge'a term
influence.  But in ~the mean time, remember, of office expired, but he himself had been lately
call upon me at any moment I"               rudely expelled from the clique which controlled
With a vehement burst of gratitude, and with the municipal destinies of the Democratic party
a half-dozen lines of care effaced from his brow, His aspirations as a candidate for the Comptrol-
the scholar left to reach his home before dark, lership had been stifled in their very birth by
and Moses sallied out to take his evening walk. the Cesar of the ruling faction, and he had been
In traversing the neighborhood of the Jeffersod goaded into bolting the regular organization, and
market, his attention was arrested by a transpar- forming a new party. From the sparse attend.
ent sign which bore the illuminated inscriptions ance at the meeting, Moses inferred that this im-
of "Oysters. Five thousand bushels just open- portant.political movement had not yet been
ed I Headquarters of the Fourteenth Ward fairly explained to the Democratic rank and file,
Pootoops Club I"  Observing that a meeting of or else it was going to be a failure. The judge
the latter was then and there apparently in prog- proceeded with great vehemence and impressive-
ress he descended in curiosity into the cellar, and ness.
was presentlydadmitted to the deliberations of nesThe emissaries of the enemy, gentlemen and
the aso ciation, which occupied the dimly-light- fellow-eitizens," said he, alluding to a drunken
ed back compartment of the cellar. The presid- man who had got into the last meeting of the
ing officer was Judge Pootoops himself, who upon club and created a disturbance, because he had
observing the entrance of our hero at once call- not been spirituously regaled a sufficient num-
ed up a member, and temporarily abdicated the' ber of times, "the emissaries of the enemy
box upon which he had been seated.  " Ah! you are out ! They have penetrated to our very
sustain us, Mr. Winkfield I"exclaimed he. "You midst, but we must be firm and united in the
sustain us in our attempts to break up the tyran- holy cause to which we are wedded. We would
nical, rascally nepotism  and corruption of the not be vindictive, but we will stand by our rights.
treacherous hirelings of the enemy, who have To our enemies say we, unconquerable hate and
obtained possession of the Democratic General war to the handle, but whoever rallies to our
Committee and constituted themselves the dicta- banners we shall receive and treat, (cries of
tors of the party."                          "Hear" and "Hooroo !") treat as one Christian
"oCertainly   II sustain any effort which may should another. Gentlemen, our stanch friend,
be made to overcome the corrupt practices'of Constable Timpkins, has been in communication
party organization in thiscountry I" replied Mo- with a prominent painter and glazier, a friend
ses, whose notions were a little indistinct as to of the movement, who has patriotically prom-.
what the judge particularly referred..      ised to advance us a banner, and we shall soon
"1You have heard of our movement. It makes be in possession of a sufficient number of lan-
a noise, el    r"                          terns, at present held by a Jew, who is as yet.
Moses delicately refrained from asking what non-committal in Chatham street. Fellow-citi-
it was, and feigned to have heard some of its zens, the torch-light procession will take place
reverberations.                              on the 5th. Come one 1 Come all, my friends'
reI   a suppose you will have no objection to aid- Induce your neighbors to join us in this great
ing the movement and addressing the Club, Mr. movement and if you have any boys, bring them
Winifed '" aidJuge  oooops immediately  along!I Strike one great, one grand blow for
Winkfield ?" said Judge Pootoosimeitly.       og-
"Gracious! oh ! no, no I I am hardly posted your country d"and
in the polities of the day, and if I were I should  Here the audience assented with cheers, a
most assuredly be obliged to decline."      then looked intently through a glass window at
"sPerhaps then you would favor them with a the adjoining bar. The judge and his retainer,
song, by and by T" suggested the judge in a the constable, at once hastened thereto and after
tone of disappointment. "They are getting a a short consultation with the bar-keeper over the
little restless, and we must keep them in good subscriptionieavaoon the fmeument, whic
hMoses having positively declined to, do this cellar by the latter, persuaded that gentleman t
also the judge was fain to privately introduce honor once mioreth Tiipknss drafte onvhistatito.
him about as an eminent statesinan of Massachu- Moses delne h juge' polt iniaint
setts, an intimate friend of himself and a stanch join in the ceremony, but benevolently encouragend
upholder of the movement, and then resumed the ostracized statesman by a ae remarks uphon
the candle-box of the chair. There was not an.. his patriotic spirit an the dabparn juriel on. hi
other article of furniture in the room beside this cause. These he strengthened by aredycn

MR. WINKFIELD.

131

tribution of five dollars toward the necessary I think I was right," continued the old lady.
sum for convertig hthe Hebrew lantern-owner, "I think I was right-in not waiting for Thomas,
and then left, as he had learned sufficient for the as
time being respecting thd matter.             "Oh ! the devil take Thomas I". cried Mr. Wag.
bull, in impatience. " Can't you let me know
what-"
"Disrespectful language to me, Benjamin Wil-
CHAPTER    LX.                kins !" interrupted the old lady, stopping, andsol-
emnly shaking her head to add weight to her
CONSTERNATION IN THE WAGBULL HOUsEHOLD.    reproach. "To one who has watched over you
THE visits of our hero to Mr. Wagbull's resi-  "But I didn't mean any disrespect!  I want
dence, as perhaps the reader may naturally con- to know what yousent for me for." cried the
jecture, increased in frequency and in intensity son, moderating his impatience.  "What is it?
upon the return to the city. The domestics of Hnme kitchen boiler exploded?  Is one of tt
the establishment, with pleased countenances and hora dead, or has that wood-sawyer come here
sagacious air, held many interesting conversa- dran -n  ,"
tione upon the probable results of this increased  Neither, neither, my son," replied the old
intimacy, the cook even going so far to establish lady impressively.  It is a matter of far greater
her prophetic skill as to lay an amiable wager of importance than any of these. It is one which,
a dozen of porter against the -feigned increduli- If ever in my early youth it had been made known
ty of the coachman. As the fatuous Irish page to my parents, to your grandpa and grandma
was a participant in all these scenes, it was high- Wilkins, Benjamin, it would haven-"
ly natural for him to grin with unusual express,  "0 pshaw   But very well. Goon, go on.
iveness upon Mr. Winkfield in admitting him at I shall get it presently," murmured Mr. Wnbull.
the door, and perhaps just as natural though  "I Ihad bettersend for Timroth.W I thilI
somewhat improper for him to linger about the had better send for Timothy  Yes, thattinlthe
parlor door, or appear in that apartment at un- best way," at last concluded the old lady.
called-for moments during the stay of our hero  The page obeved the summons of his aged
therein. Upon one of these occasions, the latter mistress, and by her directions unfolded what he
having been led away, by the ardor of his feel. saw in the parlor two days previously.
ings, and endeavored to express his happiness to  Mr. nagrull remained in silence.
Miss Wagbull by a pleasant act of intimacy, ob-  "Sustain yourself I" said the old lady agitated.
served the page standing in front of him and to ly, as she observed her son's apparently awe-
all appearances in a sound sleep. He seized the struck condition.
unfortunate intruder by the neck and with an al-  Ile still remained in silence.
ternation of the epithets of wretchc" and "good  "I think i n ia best to send for c eesie at once.
fellow," asked the terrified youth "if-if he had Don't you think so ?" continued she, in colen-
seen any thing  tb,"y               a       treated excitement.
"eYes," replied the boy," rp  seen you a-"  "O! yes. She can explain it to you, I sup-
"Never id," interrupted our hero hastily, pose," replied her son briefly, and refraining
It was evidently necessary to take him into from making any further observations.
their confidence, and they did so at once with sub-  Miss Bessie, being duly apprised of her parents'
stantial testimonials of their contracttwith him, wishes, came. She then confessed to them, with
In less than an hour, owing to the '-ccom- some tears, her knowledge of Moses's declared
plice's weakness in showing his money in the attachment for her, and 7iot only that, but her
kitchen, all the domestics were admitted by hita own reciprocity of feeling thereto, in her loving
as sub-confidents of the scene he had witnessed, him, and only him, as well as she did her "dear
Two days thereafter, Mr.-Wagbull, while in his dear father and grandmother I"
office down-town, received a sudden and urgent  "This is a pretty thing to come to a father's
note from his mother, requesting his immediate ears I" said Mr. Waghbull.
presence at home, and in much alarm and anxiety  As for the horror-stricken grandparent, with
hastily repaired to his dwelling,           her feelings intensified by the terrible confession
"What is it?  What is the matter, mother ?  whichshe now heard from the lips of her grand-
said hie, as he appeared before her, with vont5l- daughter, she at once requested her son to trains.
derable disorder of breathing.              port her afflicted being to some quiet home for
I sent for you, Benjamin, to, come at once," aged and indigent females that she might h
said his revered parent agitatedly, "as I thought forth seek in lonely solitude the happiness which
it the best way of giving you presence of mind, she failed to receive from the society of her kin-
of giving you time to prepare yourself for the dred ; and upon his not manifesting any alacrity
dreadful emergency, so as to be able to-"   in thekmatter, took herself to her room, no doubt
"What emergency, mother? What is it?" to make preparations for the same purpose, though
"And I didn't know exactly whether I should she weakened her declaration of leaving upon
wait to send the coachman instead of Timothy, in a the way, by observations about using her oin
matter of such consequence. But then I considered Personal effforts at the front-door to prevent~ our
the time I should lose in waiting for Thomas, who hero from  entering, causing Dr. Teilcer to in-
had gone to the hay-market, and I-"         terfere, etc., etc. For a day or two, Mr. Wagbull
But what is the matter of consequence, contented himsef with goingabou'the    -ouse
mother, to which you refer ?  Let me know it, rendern  himself very unlaant ter house,
exclaimed Mr. Wagbull, in anxiety. ':taking no notice ofvteryng eaand ostentation of'
"Dear me ! I never was so fluttered in my life letter-writing upon the part of the young lady-
as I was when I sent it, and I am now ; but and what few remarks he made during the period


MR. WINKFIELD.

were principally confined to mutterings and talk
about " walking on mines," and about the "sub-
terraneous working," etc., of our hero.  After
which lie concluded that lie might venture to sit
down, and rationally discuss the matter with his
mother in her room.I
" This thing must not be. I can't have it at
all !" commenced the old lady in considerable
dudgeon to him, upon their resuming the subject.
"It is all your fault-all your fault !"
" My fault, mother ?" replied the astonished
Mr. Wagbull.
" Yes, What do you allow the young jacka-
napes to come about here for, disturbing the
peace of the family, and putting ideas into Bes-
sie's head that she would never have thought
of ?"1-
" Well, I don't know as he has been guilty of
any decided intention to injure our happiness;
and as for that, mother, perhaps Bessie may have
put as many wrong ideas into his head as he into
hers, for that matter I" replied the old gentleman
pettishly.
" I know it; I know it V" said the grandmother
musingly. " To think of that child, after all the
love we've bestowed upon her, and the times I
have kept her near me and occupied myself talk-
ing to her at home, when she wanted to be gad-
ding about I And after all, she goes and contracts
a friendship for a person who is comparatively an
entire stranger, and for all I know-a jacka-
napes I"
" Well, I don't know about that, mother. It
depends altogether upon what you may wish to
be inferred from the term. For-"
" Think of itI It is a man 1" cried the old
lady, in shrill indignation. "It is a man she is
fond of!"
This was a clincher, and the son, in filial bene-
volence, whatever his own feelings may have bccu,
sympathetically expressed his deep horror at the
backsliding of his daughter, and feigned such a
contortion of features as he supposed would be
most likely to convey to his aged parent his mel-
ancholy and irritation at the unhappy state of
affairs.
"Dut," continued he, in a deprecatory way.
after a pause, " I don't see, aner all, why it i3
not, perhaps, to be expected that-"
"What !" exclaimed the old lady in great con.
sternation. "Do you mean to attempt to palliate
this I?"
"Oh i no, no, mother," hastily interposed Mr.
Wagbull, fearful of unneccessarily agitatiig the
old lady. "I was only going to say-"
"Do you mean, Benjamin Wilkins !" continued
the old lady fiercely, "to uphold your daughter,
to connive with her in these proceedings against
one who has had the whole care of her, since-"
"10 pshaw I there is no conniving about it at
all. I don't know any thing about it! I am not
going to be continually bothered because a young
man ses fit to call on my family, and what have
I to do with it, any way ?" asked Mr. Wagbull
irritatedly
" And'you mean coolly to sit still," continued
the old lady with subdued Intensity, "and see
these thimgs goig on  directly under ' your
" What is the use of making such a fuss about
nothing ?" asked Mr. Wagbull, proposing to rea-
son with his excited parent. " Now, just listen

to me, mother. I don't see as there is any thing
very-."
"There, I knew it. I knew it. I expected it!
Procrastination is the thief of time. Hope on,
hope ever. Whatever is, is right. Be wise, and
you'll be happy. Give a man an inch, and he'll
take an ell. Lead a horse to water, and he will
not drink. In prudence there is wisdom. Make
hay while the sun shines. - January thaws bring
forth May roses. Fools make wise men weep
and wise men make-"
"Wait a moment, mother," interjected the
somewhat confused son, as the old lady was pro.
ceeding fervently to bring her whole stock of
wise saws to bear upon the important matter.
"That's it I wait a moment l" proceeded the
old lady at lightning speed. "In much merri-
ment there is food for sorrow. Where ignorance
is bliss, it's folly to be wise. Let one man know
a secret, and it will be no secret. Rub'a bull's
nose with sage tea, and his tail will--'"
"0 pshaw ! I don't care what you do with
bull's noses," said Mr. Wagbull, losing his pa-
tience. "I would like to have you listen to me a
moment, just for one moment, and you will be
satisfied, I hope, with what I have to say."
"I shan't do it I" said the old. lady decidedly.
"I know what you are going to say. You are
going to connive at and defend that jackanapes,
who has come here and-"
"Fiddle! What have I to do with that jack.
Ignapes? As for that matter, I wi.h he was in
California, or any other place, as long as he was
pleasantly situated," said Mr. Wagbull, rather
doggedly, as he began to feel that Moses was in-
deed creating a difficulty within his family circle,
thou 1 in a different way from that observed by
the od lady.
#I won't have it ! I won't have it !" cried the
lI lady, her excitement renewed by reflection.
"I brought you up, and I won't have it. I nursed
you dari-g your tae'Aing, I watched over you, I
physicked you, and I have now, just the same as
ever, to watch and-"
"Very well. I know it, but4I can't do any
thing. -What can I do ?" exclaimed Mr.Wagbull,
agaia making a pathetic appeal on his own ac-
count to the old lady. "Now, if you just listen
to me for a moment, I'll-"
"I won't. Nothing can make me. But I
shan't submit to any thing that may happen and
I won'tI I give you fair warning, Benjamin
Wilkins l",0
"Very well, have it your own way, if you want
to," said Mr. Wagbull grasping his hat and cane
in desperation and leaving the room. "I am inot
going to be bothered any more."
And thereupon the distracted gentleman, deter-
miniig to let things take their natural course, in-
mediately took himself into the street, and to a
neighboring pot-house, for all we know.
CHAPTER LXI.
MOSES JIAS A BRIEF nUT INTERESTING INTERVIEW
WITH THE GREAT COLLECTOR OF THE PORT, AND
-RECEIVEs AN APPOINTMENT FOR A FUTURE 0N5
IT is not necessary for us to remind our intelli.-
gen-t readers that Mir. Wagbuil was really very

132

MR. WINKFIELD.

fond of our hero. There in fact appeared to him
but one point in Moses's character, which he von-
sidered a weakness. In the noble science of pol.
itics, he was forced to set him down as an Utopi-
an dreamer, an impracticable schemer. We are
now happily called upon to chronicle a series of
events, in which our hero became deeply involved,
and during the progress of which, we shall notice
an entire and radical change in this opinion,
which the old gentleman had hitherto entertained
of Moses's diplomatic abilities, and we shall show
him compelled, by the ordinary testimony of his
senses and reasoning powers, to acknowledge an
extraordinary display of those very qualities of
intellect, which he had hitherto denied to his
young friend.- These will appear a complete and
triumphant refutation of the sentiments which
he had previously expressed thereon.
To - be sure, the reader may observe in the
course of these events, that our hero was, per
haps, assisted in their happy development, by the
natural working of external principles, but so it
is in the progress of every human action. Man's
efforts and chance are ever inexplicably inter-
twined, and it is impossible for the most subtle
dissecter of occurrences to separate the one from
the other, even in the most ordinary instances.
This gives an opportunity to cavilers to exer.
cise their talents, and undoubtedly some such
evilly-disposed persons may be inclined, after
perusing the following events, to feel and say
that they came to a happy denouement, rather
from their own force than any thing Mr- Wink-
field did, and that he was even wholly unac-
qiainted with their true nature from beginning
to end. But what of that? If the successes of
some of the greatest statesmen or generals which
the world has produced, be thus minutely exam-
ined, some cynical critic may doubtless be found
to attribute the crowning effect to hazard, or the
natural flow of events, rather than to his fellow-
beings' efforts. We do not say that a just scr-
tiny should not be undertaken, and indeed we
feel that as far as possible an arrival at a true
discrimination of the various powers jointly pro-
ducing a mundane result, should be ardently and
persistently sought for by the philosophic mind;
but it would be a happy rule, if this were usually
attempted for a good purpose instead of an evil
one. If mankind habitually used their judgments
in such cases, to exonerate a fellow-being from
blame for want of success, and to attribute fail-
ure, where it generally belongs, to the force of
extrinsic circumstances, we would have, refrained
from making these remarks. We have spoken
feelingly upon the subject, for we ourselves know
whatit is to have suffered from the one-sided,
but, alas! apparently natural working of this sin-
gular principle. We have known instances, in
our experience, where, from want of success, our
effbrts have been considered even asinine in their
nature; and the more deeply interested in us the
judges thereof, the more explicit seems to have
been the expression of some such hearty disap-
proval thereof.
But let us return from this honest digression
of the moment, which ought to have the effect of
Protecting our hero against any thoughtless con-
clusions upon the part of the readers of this mar-
rative, with regard to the part he may play herein,
and perhaps be the means of securing to him, in
the minds of many, an impartial award of that

admiration which he generally deserves as the
firm and intelligent upholder of some of the finest
principles of our constitution. We sincerely hope
it will at least thwart any attempts which vulgar
minds may make to cast ridicule upon his adven-
tures, and convert them into a source of ill-judged
levity and merriment.
It will be remembered, that, in the last interview
which Moses had with his unfortunate acquaint-
ance, Mr. Lampson, he had determined that a
place in one of the public offices would be a
pleasant situation for the latter, and also that it
was agreed upon, the Custom House offered the
best inducements to a person desirous of some
leisure for literary pursuits. Moses resolved and
promised that, he would immediately proceed in
the business. The opportunity was offered to him
at an evening party which he attended shortly
afterward. The salons of the accomplished lady
giving it were filled with the &amp;ite and beauty of
the city, but the person who became at once,
on this interesting evening, the object of Moses's
devotion, was not any one of the fair sex, but a
gentleman of portly mien and heavy smile, a
gentleman in fact with a Presence. This gentle-
man was known to the world at large as the chief
of the revenue department of the national govern-
ment at New-York, though in political circles it
was well known that the duties, which he was or
ought to have been performing about this time,
were those connected with the dispensation of the
presidential patronage in furthering the interests
of the illustrious chief of the nation, who was then
very properly looking to a reflection. Upon learn-
ing that this affable gentleman, then circulating in
the drawing-room, was such-an important person-
age as the Collector of the Port, Moses at once
unsophisticatedly proposed to be introduced to
him, to lay a short statement of facts before him,
in reference to his application, and receive immedi-
ately thereupon the desired appointment for Mr.
Lampson in writing; thus avoiding the necessity
of revealing the latter's unfortunate condition to
intermediate parties.
The persistence with which Moses followed the
great politician from one room to another, and
closely watched all of his motions, in endeavoring
to seize the first courteous opportunity offered
for the furtherance of his plans, became at last
an object of attention on the part of the states.
man himself. Besides possessing the usual sa-
gacity of a person experienced in reading the
motives of human nature, especially when dis-
guised, the latter had at this moment particular
reasons for believing he saw something else in
Moses's close scrutiny than mere political solicita-
tion or social admiration.
It was an important week in politics. Upon
the Tuesday following the annual nomination by
the Republican party of its candidate for the may-
oralty was to be made, atnd the heartburning, jeal-
ousies and machinations which arose in the se-
cret conclaves of the party itself were far ruore
intense and exciting to the members than the
open battle which was to take place subsequently
with the foe. The party was violently divided
upon the claims of two principal candidates for
the nonmination. and -it vas well known that the
only hope of either to obtain it depended upon
the will of the collector, and the direction of his
influence in-the convention. That officer, though
appointed by the President, had pleasantly turned

133


134                    MR. WINKFIELD.

MR. WINKFIELD.                    135

a traitor to him and secretly favored the presiden-
tial aspirations of a distinguished member of his
cabinet. It was the collector's object to use the
influence of his position in the coming elections
in favor of those aspirations without an overt act
of treason to the President, that is, of securing
for them the fealty of the candidate upon whom
it should be bestowed, without being found out.
The position, though amusing, was shaky, and
required great ecrecy and caution in being sus-
tained. His principal inthe Washington Cabinet
had therefore informed him of what measures of
espionage, treachery and intrigue he now wished
to have performed for the furtherance of his in-
terests, and had judiciously proposed to dispatch
to him a proper person, one particularly faithful
and capable, who might under his directions exe-
cute the plans without danger \of compromising
their relations with the administration.
"If I can spare him from here he will arrive,"
ran the letter, in a day or two and present hiu-
self at once to you. He has been properly in-
structed as to the caution to be used, and has
been fully advised by me upon the measures to
be executed. After consulting with him upon
the main points you can safely leave him to faith.
fully fill up the outlines. Be careful of your places
of interview, by all means, as he is a stranger to
localities."
So when Moses, finally observing a propitious
moment for an introduction, advanced with the
host to the great collector, the latter reverting to-
the letter he had received, was induced to bestow
some attention upon the movements of our hero,
but still cautiously, and awaiting further develop-
ments upon his part. In consequence of the
favorable aspect of the collector, Moses proceeded
at once, after the salutatory remarks, on his bene-
volent purpose.7
"If you will allow me, sir, said he, as they
.were left together, '1I will inform you at once,
sir, that in thus trespassing upon your presence,
I am animated by a desire to further the interests
of another person-a gentleman whom I trust
you-"
Ah ! you are a stranger here," said-the states-
man, looking at him with increased significance.
"You come from a friend, ahem !"
"Yes, sir," replied Moses modestly.  "Yes,
sir, I am a comparative stranger, but-"
"Hush ! 'sh !" said the other suddenly.
Eh ?" ejaculated Moses, as he observed the
collector looking around him in apparent alarm.
"'Sh! Some one comes," whispered the lat-
ter, in sudden confidence.
"Yes. Yes, sir, but-"
" A very chaste bought! a very chaste
thought, indeed !" exc aimed the collector aloud.,
"I think he s one of our finest poets, sir ",'
"I beg your pardon, but from some stupid
inadvertence I did not-"
"Oh ! frequently, frequently P" continue the
collector loudly. "He often dines with me to
chat upon the fine arts."
1I hope you will pardon me," cried Moses, who
imagined that the collector had fallen into a kind
of soliloquizing state; "but I thought Imight-"
.  'Sh  I can see Badger coming, and there is
Wagbull looking this way ! Present yourself to-
morrow, at eleven, at .the basement-door of my
house, disguised as a milkmna, Be cautious !
Continue to mingle in the festivities, and don't

come within ten feet of me during the evening,"
said the politician in a low voice, but with great
rapidity, and he immediately continued as Mr.
Badger approached them: "Ah ! yes, ahem! A
very noble sentiment,,very indeed! (Remember,
keep quiet and keep in another room! I leave
you now!) Ah Badger! how are you to-night ?"
And off he went, leaving Moses to philosophize
as best he could upon the abrupt termination of
his application.
Mr. Wagbull, as our readers may have already
seen, was one of the many respectable citizens,
who so assiduously attend to the wants of needy
and worthy office-seekers, under the hallucination
that they are performing one of the first duties
which the citizen owes to his country, and in
fact, exercising an immense influence upon the
progress of civilization in general; which is prob-
ably quite true, though in a way little suspected
by them. The social influence of there wretched
dupes was impressed upon them as of particular
importance, and Mr. Wagbull, in great political
ardor, had intended to make this social gather-
ing an occasion for homage to the collector, in
behalf of one of the candidates whose cause
he had warmly espoused; having, furthermore,
Itme indefinite hopes of inducing the unsuspect-
ing collector, in a weakened moment, to commit
himself. From the natural circumspection of the
latter against such wiles, or what was more
likely, from  Mr. Waghull's own confused no-
tions as to how he should proceed, he had not
been able to say a word to the great man, even
upon such an allowable subject as the weather.
When he observed Mr. Winkfield, therefore, in
apparently familiar conversation with the cyno-
sure, he disengaged himself as soon as possible
from an old lady who had attached him to her ear-
trumpet, and with a mingled feeling of envy and
curiosity, sought the presence of Moses, just as the
latter was recovering from his astonishment, and
was soliloquizing upon the adroitness with which
public men are accustomed to guard themselves
against the approach of solicitors, it having struck
him that this example of it wa about the most
rapid and efficacious one that could be insti-
tuted.
" Eh i?" said Mr. Wagbull, in great curiosity,
a I see you have had a conversation with the
collector"..
"Yes," replied Moses, continuing his solilo-
quy. (" Feigning literary abstraction, he pre-
vents my broaching the subject at once, and
only grants me an interview by coupling it with
commands which are extremely disagreeable-
very !")
" What-what were you talking about," asked
Mr. Wagbull softly, still a prey to his curiosity,
and envying the late opportunity of Moses.
" Oh ! nothing! nothing!- Merely respects,"
replied Moses. "I had scarcely time to address
him before we were interrupted. (But I must be
firm and waive all foolish self-respect in this
matter," continued lie in heroic meditation. "I
will obey his commands, for I must have the in-
terview, milkman or not.")-      .
The thought of the fine opportunity, which
Moses had possessed and which might have been
used in favor of Mr. Wagbull's candidate for the
mayoralty, caused an irritation in the old gentle-
man's bosom. lie regretted again and audibly
Moses's want of that peculiar gemus'which dis-

poses men to interest themselves in such matters,
and inwardly characterized the latter's hasty pro-
-posal to adjourn to the card-room, as an evidence
of his flippant indifference to such momentous con-
cerns.
CHAPTER     LXIL
THE ADVENTURES OF SHORTE.
Ma.BoBBY was not perhaps an iniiately bad
person, but was still of that class of young gen-
tlemen quite common in civilized communities
who grow up with the idea that to spend money
on one's self is the chief aim of existence. His
method of doing so was not peculiar to himself
either, nor was the fact of having already dissi-
pated his own inheritance in such foolish excite-
ment as the society of firemen and other rough
characters. furnished him. Young men may be
found at all times and in every place who go
through precisely such a course before they are
hanged, or marry. It is quite natural for such
characters also to covet time possessions of their
relatives when they have no longer any of their
own, and have also exhausted the little supplement
of spendthrift bankruptcy, which consists in
borrowing of their tailors and boot-makers. Mr.
Bobby was therefore quite in earnest when he
threatened to visit the intervention of a third par-
ty against. his fraternal privilege of spending
his sister's money for her with such severe meas-
ures as cutting said party's throat, or removing
his cuticle. It was not from moral derangement
that he proposed such things, but it was only un-
der the painful aspect of the necessity of such
measures to protect his own rights. In fact, it
may be doubted whether after all he possessed
sufficient contempt for the laws to essay the first
pleasant process, or sufficient' scientific know-
ledge to accomplish the second. 1
Now among those who frequently enjoyed the
society of this young gentleman, at the carriage-
house of Hose Company No. 20, chiefly before
and after conflagrations, was an individual who
belonged to the class well known to every fire
company as "runners," young ragamuffins who
regard fires as special dispensations sent to pro-
vide them with clothing and other articles of
personal necessity, who worship "the machine"
as an idol, and look upon the- officers and mem-
bers of the company as priests of the temple, to
be numbered among whom is one of the princi-
pal aims of their ambition. This lively young
outcast, called Shortey, from his vain attempts
to ateal any coats that did not reach to his heels
or pantaloons which he was not compelled to roll
up in two or three folds at the bottom, had a
nimble perception of situations and a brilliantI
way of putting them to his own behoof. So
when he heard the afflicted Bobby's distressed
remarks in convivial moments respecting his sis-
ter's superfluous jewelry and money, and the be-
neficent purposes to which such valuable stuff
might be put were it in proper hands, he pro-
posed to take the first step toward such a benev-
olent consummation by causing it to come into
his own hands through the gentle process of
stealing. After a short and easy meditation upon
the plan of action he proceeded to insert it as a

fixed fact in the general scheme of mundane
events by inserting himself at a proper moment
in the Bobby apartments, to the doors of which
he had been accustomed to familiar access as
casual errand-boy for Mr. Bobby. How intense
is the intoxication of feeling which is experi-
enced in the fascinating pastime of robbery I We
do not, of course, speak from experience, but
merely reason that it must be so from general
principles and from the examples which are pre-
sented on the historic page in the achievements
of the illustrious thieves who constitute nine
tefiths of its heroes. The pleasures of hope, of
the execution of a purpose, of a proud conscious-
ness of abilities, of the chivalrous virtues of cour-
age, self-reliance, and daring are all harmoniously
mingled in one grand thrill of spiritual e6xalta-
tion.
Such the gallant Shortey experienced as he
paused for a moment in his successful rummage
of Miss Bobby's drawei-s. Every thing had been
propitious. It was the evening hour of nine.
Mr. Bobby as usual was paying his evening visit
to the hose-house, and Miss Bobby was upon one
to a place of entertainment. Should either re-
turn, he could slip into the parlor of the suite,
or one of the two adjoining bed-rooms and qui.
etly gain the hall by its door; for according to
the excellent arrangements of this hotel its suites
were especially adapted to facilitate operations
of this nature. In his coqtempt for danger he
gave utterance to his enravished feelings in an
audible snicker. He was contemplating reclin-
ing in an easy-chair of the parlor for the pur-
pose of indulging in an open haw-haw as the
comical brilliancy of the whole affair struck him,
when he heard footsteps in the hall apparently
approaching the apartments.
Shortey was fallible. There were too many
doors ready for him to escape through. le hes-
itated. The hand of some one was upon the
parlor door-knob and a key was being inserted
in the lock, when he threw himself into neither
of the chambers, but into a convenient closet,
which stood directly at his side.  The comers
were evidently a lady and gentleman, the former
without doubt Miss Bobby, though the latter,
Shortey knew from the foreign accents of the
voice which he heard, was not her brother.
" It is quite close in here," said Miss Bobby to
her companion as she turned on the gas. "And
-dear me, I positively thought I detected the
odor of-of-really, of onions, as I came in. Did
not you?"
" Why, no. But now I come to think of it,
perhaps I do smell a slight odor of that kind. It
bas escaped without doubt from the kitchens be-
low," replied her companion delicately.
"It will disappear presently, no doubt," con-
tinued the lady, opening the window. "I am
glad we did iot attend the entertainment, after
all. What a charming walk we have had, and,
dear friend, I feel so grateful to you for it I"
"Oh !" said the friend, evidently much affect-
ed by this, "don't mention it, I beg. It is I
who should be grateful for the exquisite happi-
ness I experience in your society.  0 Moffa-
tina !"
" Ah ! how delightful it is to experience sweet
friendship ~n one's home !" murmured the lady
ina suffused tone.
" And in that sacred precinct may I not ever


136                       MR. WINKFIELD.

call you Moffatina, dear Moffatina ?" said the gen-
tleman in reply.
There was a slight noise as of the moving of
chairs, followed by a pleasant sound. The gen-
tleman was evidently very properly kissing the
lady.
"Yes, and the time will come when I will
shout that sweet name in defiance from the house-
tops I" continued lie vehemently, "at the-the
unworthy being who has the endearing privilege
of calling you sister, and peremptorily ask *him
what-what he means ?"
"HushI hush ! I pray you. Ie is not here,
but 'tis best to be ever cautious. His cars may
reach from the engine-house even here l" inter-
rupted the lady.
"True!" replied the gentleman in undisguised
irritation.
"See! he has taken7Pet with him again, to
amuse his companions with her tricks. He will
not be back till a late hour."
"There is one benefit in his low attachment
for these engino-men," continued the gentleman
as his irritation faded away. "It enables me,
dear Moffatina, to enjoy undisturbedly the pleas-
ure which I deem the greatest I could be blessed
with!"
"Dear Mr. Titman I I am so happy, and yet
so unhappy !" proceeded the young lady. "He
makes me so unhappy, Cruel Dalkewell "
"But, by heaven! for your sake alone this
state of things shall not exist. No, I will meet
him face to ftce," continued Mr. Titan chival-
rously, aroused again by the young lady's decla-
ration of trouble. "I will defy his threats, and
sternly, savagely demand from him-"
"Gracious! Hark " interrupted the young
lady. -0
"What is it ?" asked Mr. Titman, pausing.
"It is he I His footsteps !" exclaimed  the
young lady, rising agitatedly from her seat and
hastening toward the parlor-door. "I hear them
in the hall. He is returning already !"
"Good God! where shall I go?" aked Mr.
Titman, rising from his seat with equal alacrity.
"Where? Into his bed-room ?"         .
"No, noI He may come in that way. But
do please avoid him!"          ,t
"Yes!1 But where? Into-to yours ?" said Mr.
Titman, with some appearance of panic. "Where
-where shall I go?"
" Heavens ! I am so distracted! IHere, here,
into this closet I" said the lady, and at these
words Mr. Titman at once seized his hat and
cloak, and leaped toward and into that place of
concealment. Miss Bobby had scarcely closed
the door upon him when her brother and dog
entered.
Shortey had heard every word of the above
interesting conversation. His genius rose at its
denouement. Though the society of the lover in
the closet was unexpected to him, and that of
any one an impediment to freedom of action in
such a confined space, he instantly seized the sit-
uation and seized Mr. Titman by the hair, placed
a hand over his mouth and threatened to choke
him to death if he uttered a word. The bewil-
dered refugee gasped in overwhelmed terror at
this unexpected rising of the closet against his
security. Were demoniac spirits ordinarily kept
in the jars and glass bottles upon its shelves, and
had one of these come forth to attack him? His

legs gave out beneath him, and he would have
sunk violently upon the floor if the supernatural
agency had not- mitigated  his subsidence by
means of its grasp in his hair.
" Guy me yer hat and yer wropper," whis.
pered the apparition, fragrantly'
The lover was unable to do so from the paraly-
sis of his terror,.but he was equally unable to
take any opposition to surrendering the articles
mentioned.
" Take off yer coat and guy it to me! Leave
the change in it."
The appalled victim made a semi-unconscious
effort, and succeeded iu obeying this second re-
quest.
"Now say any think and I'll saw yer juggler,
or expose yer to him as yer imposing' onto, yer
villink 1" whispered the mysterious power, eon-
cluding its conversational effort.
Had the terrified lover possessed the compre-
hension of affairs to have known that the last
alternative of this dreadful threat could not have
been other than a piece of audacious satire, it
still would have apprised him that he was in a
situation wherein he was debarred from making
4 resistance of any kind against this unexpected
antagonist. As it was, he occupied his time in
simply breathing, being temporarily content with
that simple way of continuing his existence.
Shortly continued ready for' the emergenuie
which might arise without the closet, and as it is
our object in this chapter to follow the adventure
of this ingenious and daring spirit to its issue, we
will briefly recount what took place on the
exterior.
, " Alit is that you, Bakewell ?" said Miss Bob-
by4astily placing herself in a chair and assum-
in  a srene attitude, as her brother entered.
"Yu are home soon ' "
" i'm. I thought I'd get a goodpiglit's sleep
of it," replied the pleasant youth,' condescending
to explain. "Igot devilish tired last night at the
carriage-house, helping to elect, the officers and
drinking the punch. What is this smell ofgonions
here?"
-1 1 eally don't know. I thought I detected it
too. It must come through the register from be-
low," replied the young lady.
" Well, I will turn it off."
"And Pet is glad to get back too!" continued
Miss Bobby, attempting to conceal her agitation
by complaisance. "Come here, Petty, come here,
little dog."
The animal was about obeying his mistress's
command, when he paused, snuffed uneasily about
the carpet and whined.
' "What is the matter with the little devil ?"
asked the brother, yawning, and throwing his legs
upon a chair.
" I don't know. He must be affected by the
odor also. Go lie down, Pet.  Be quiet, sir,"
said the young lady authoritatively, to the un-
dasy dog.
The unsatisfied animal obeyed.
"I think I'll step down to the reading-room to
see if the papers say any thing about our elec-
tion, before I go to bed," continued Mr. Bobby,
rising from his chair, after a moment or two. "I
shan't be gone but a short time, but leave the gas
burning hn here if you go to bed before I get
back, sis."
" Oh ! yes, I will!1" said the trembling young

lady, with ill-concealed satisfaction at this unex
pected favor of chance.
And receiving her promise, the young man be
took himself from the room and went below. As
soon as the sound of his footsteps died away on
the staircase, Miss Bobby rushed in excited agi
station to the gas-jet, diminished the light, and
then turning to the closet, hastily opened its
door. As she was about invoking her lover, in
a frantic whisper, to come forth, there rather
abruptly e nerged a form, wrapped in his well-
known Raglan, with his hat already placed upon
his head, and his face prudently muffled from
view. No words emanated from his lips, but in
sweet token of adieu he hurriedly waved his dis-
engaged hand, rapidly gained the door, and sped
toward one of the staircases,.
Whether he met his friend Bobby in his egress,
and accounted to him for his presence, or evaded
him entirely, we can not say ; but Shortey had
been absent scarely a moment when Mr. Bobby
returned with the newspapers in his hand which
he had secured for the purpose of reading in bed.
The dog, who had been aroused from his uneasy
position by the recent unusual events in the
apartment, darted in trembling joy at his master,
looked up, whined again, and then with renewed
courage was about directing his course to the
closet, when his mistress forcibly took him in her
arms, and, irritated by the fear that some suspi-
cions might be aroused in her brother's mind by
the animal's disquiet, vehemently tapped him
upon the head and placed him in his basket in
the corner. A sufficient time had elapsed, be-
tween the departure of the successful Shortey and
the advent of Mr- Bobby, for- the extraction of
Mr. Titman also from the diffi-ulty. But that
unhappy gentleman was in a state of stupor, im-
minently bordering upon that of insensibility.
He began to revive from this situationjust as
the conversation, which Mr. Bobby renewed with
his sister turned once more upon the vexed sub-
lject of lovers, and just as the gentleman, no
doubt, especially alluded to him therein.
"1Who's that little tailor I saw you with on the
Avenue, yesterday ?" asked the young man.
"Confound him! if he comes around here, hum-
bugging you, I'll blow his head off; or any of
'em."                                -
"He's not a tailor! How dare you continue
to talk to me in this way, Bakewell?" replied the
young lady in indignant irritation. "Am  I not
older than you ? I shall manage my own affairs,
I assure you, and what is more, gratify my own
wishes and not yours in selecting my society !"
"1You're a fool, Moff, and devil take me if I
don't show these -sneaks there's some sense left
in the family any bow, if they-there's that dog
whining again!  What is the matter with him ?
Here, Pet, come here. What is the matter with
ypu ?"
The restless dog, assured by.the command of
his master, jumped up vigorously, rushed toward
the closet, and commenced to bark loudly.
" He is not hungry. By heaven ! he smells a
rat !" said the brother, rising in excitement and
walking toward the closet. "By Flanagan, there
is a rat in here !" continued he, laying down his
papers on a chair. " Wait a moment ! Now you'll
see somne fun, Mofrey, Keep quiet and you'll see
some fun !''
Miss Bobby entered fully into the spirit of the

- suggestion. She was only too thankful that thero
was now only a rat in the closet. "Open the
.door slowly," commanded she vivaciously.
'Mr. Bobby obeyed her, and immediately the
grand spectacle of "the futi" was inaugurated.
- The disordered Titman broke from his place of
imprisonment with such rude, panic-stricken ve-
locity, that lie overthrew the astounded Mr. Bob-
by, crushed the howling dog into the carpet, and
by these events secured at least a half minute's
start in the race which was subsequently to ensue.
The yaung lady, overcome with surprise and
terror at the unexlainable mystery, uttered a
shriek and fainted upon the floor, as the spirit of
her lover or whatever the apparition was, bolted
past her with pallid features for t!e door. With
Shortey's coat flying in the wind behind him, Mr.
Titman was already tearing down the street ere
Mr. Bobby recovered from the shock of his pros-
tration. The latter rushed frantically in pursuit,
but Mr. Titman had escaped. Closely imitating
the-ingenious method of the hunted bare, the fly-
ing refugee ran down one street, up another, and
through lanes, parallel and crosswise.  He rode
in omnibuses and cars, darted into grocery stores
and apothecary shops, and finally, having expend-
ed the little cash which Shortey had left on his
person in small purchases in various parts of the
city, and exhausted his physical forces in his con-
tinued excitement, reached his home somewhere
toward midnight.   There, securely locked in
his chamber, he congratulated himself on his es-
cape, though the events seemed sternly to signify
that the time had now come for him to meet the
brother, boldly explain his position, and resolute-
ly demand fair proceedings upon the latter's part.
CHAPTER LXIII.
MOSES .coMFIDES ma DENEVOLENT  RoJECT TO MR.
WAOnULL, AND PROCEEDS TO FURTHER IT IN A
SECOND INTERVIEW WITH THE GREAT COLLECTOR.
TiE envy of Moses's late opportunity with the
collector and the regret at his iidifference to po-
litical matters still rankled in Mr. Vagbull's
bosom.
"I grant you, my daughter," said he, with an
air of great acuteness, in a conversation with his
daughter at breakfast, the next day after the par-
ty, "nb fault can be found by any one with the
excellence and vigor of Mr. Winkfield's intellec-
lectual faculties, as faculties. No, on the con-
trary, I must warmly defend them!"
" Well, then, what do you mean, papa, by say-
ing you had concluded he dil not know any
thing ?  Such a horrid remark I I am sure you
did not know what you said !" said his daughter
pettishly.
" Ahi! there it is; I frankly admit he is pos.
sessed of a brilliant intellect, truly brilliant, but
my opinion is that in point of fact lie does not
know how to use it!"
"0 pshaw ; what does his brilliant intellect
avail if he knows not how to use it ?"
"The very point-the very point ! We are
coming at it now. Yes, there is a certain want
of' tact, of' politic management and diplomatic
acuteness, which all such romantic anmd utopian
people appear even delighted to evince."~

MR. WINKFIELD.


138

MR. WINKFIELD.

"And they are right. ITow any person who "Yes. The fact of it is-I -suppose I must
values himself and his self-respect can stoop to tell you what my objects'are. Indeed, I hope
the continual hypocrisy and habitual deception you will cooperate with me; though, as the col
which you call political tact, is more than I can lector seems desirous that he should not be pub-
see, even for the mostdesired of consummations." licly known in the matter, you must keep it a
" My dear, you are just as romantic as he. In profound secret."  And hereupon, with many
fact, it is the notion of school-girls, and all such characteristic evasions- of any personal arroga-
who have not felt themselves called upon to dis- tion, Moses proceeded to recount the manner in
charge the important duties of a citizen, and which he had become acquainted with his friend,
sharer in the glorious privileges of the free in- the literary man, the subsequent knowledge
stitutions and liberal policy of one of the most which he had obtained of the social condition
remarkable instances in history of the enlighten- of that worthy man, and his interesting family,
ment, which is the natural offspring of the free and his own propositions with regard thereto.
institutions and liberal policy of one of the most  "What romantic adventures you have, Moses!
remarkable instances which-is, or rather may be But why didn't you let me know this before ?"
observed to be, one of the-" "I thought it best to respect Mr. Lampson's
"Dear me, what do you mean by all this going feelings. Both he and his wife are so sensitive."
on, papa, about privileges and policies?" inter-  "And so you have really obtained an inter-
rupted the young lady. "What has Mr. Wink- view with the collector in this matter? Ahl"
field or you to do with sharing in glorious privi- continued the old- gentleman, musing and sigh-
leges more than others; and if he has, what is ing regretfully, "think of it, if you were only a
the utility of his indulging in mysteries and in- little more accustomed to affairs of a political na-
trigues to do so?"                          ture, my dear Moses, how much you might do for
I  ee, it is impossible for you to imagine, x- Conkey inthe interview which you are to have.
cept to utterly misconceive, the ideas of those," But it can't be. I regret to say it, but your want
continued the old gentleman inflatedly, "who of political tact might jeopardize the whole mat-
are aware and well know, and fully appreciate ter."
and apprehend, that they may be at times, mis-  "What matter is it ?" asked Moses. "Who
understood, but who will, nevertheless, discharge is Conkey ?"
the important duties they owe, from their social  "Just as I supposed ; not even know who
station, to government, good order, and the hu- Conkey is I Why, Moses, the interview you haye
man race, in upholding the noble civilization and obtained-but go to it. Say to the collector that
just Policy which form a remarkable instance in a friend is also deeply interested with you, who
the history of the, as it were-of the-but I see will meet him with pleasure, if he wishes it, and
it is useless for me to proceed. Of course, it is then mention, my name. Now I think of it,
not the place to discuss these matters--with a 'Moses, I take great interest in the literary man's
mere girl. I am afraid, my daughter, Moses will misfortunes."
not do."a,                                    " Oh ! yes. And if we fail with the collector,
"But I don't wish to be the wife of a politician why we can set hinm up together in a farm, book.
or a statesman. I would not if I could be. I store, or something of that kind, can't we ?" re-
wish, pap, to be the wife of a good, honest, and plied Moses in enthusiasm.
upright gentleman, and-and-"                  " Eh?  I don't know much about that. Per-
Here the young lady, carried away by the ve- haps so," said Mr. Wagbull in abstraction. "We
hemence of her feelings, incidentally made a must consider, we must consider."
severe threat, which deeply affected her parent,  "If you do not feel like joining me, I will do
and perhaps instituted in his bosom the pointed so myself," continued Moses.,
remorse for his position to which the fear of ap-  "Ah! quite right, quite right, Moses," replied
proaching disaster often gives rise. She inti- Mr. Wagbull, arousing from his reflection.
mated that she would not buy another. bonnet, or  After learning from him the number of the
any other article of her wardrobe, and would collector's residence, Moses repaired at once, in
persistently wear her old things, until he retract- benevolent energy, to a German grocery, pro-
ed his position.                            cured of its proprietor a milk-can, and, disguising
edWell, well, I have nothing to find fault with his manner as faithfully as he knew how, proceeded
either in Moses's person or morals," continued toward the collector's mansion. The collector in
he; " oh! no. He has a fine figure; his legs are person answered his application at the basement
remarkably well formed-remarkaply; and he is door, and with great haste and caution led him
straight and upright in his conduct, too, as man into his study.
could be. Every one says so who knows him.     "Alh! I applaud your prudence," said the poll-
But I am afraid, my daughter-I am afraid-tact tician, after they were seated, "and the dispatch
is so necessary in this world, even in buying a with which you presented yourself to me last
pound of sugar or renting a house-that-and, night. I received a note from our friend yes-
gracious, here he is now!"                  terday containing a brief statement of the mea-
"I thought I would call in to see you, but I sures proposed."
can stop but a moment," said Moses,," for I have  "Ah i" said Moses, bowing courteously at this
a little engagement this morning. By the way, unexpected information, and the more unexpect-
do you know where the collector resides, Mr. ed affability of the collector, "you will pardon
Waghull ?"                                  the bastiness with which I seized a social moment
" What ! You don't mean to say you have an to-" -
enaement with him ?" asked Mr. Waghull in "Certainly, certainly; you were quite correct.
astnisghent;- " at this time, too-one of the But when did you leave our friend, and how ia
os important weeks ever known in public cir- he ?" asked the collector.            ,
cles."                                         " Oh I I left him the day before yesterday,'"

I

MR. WINKFIELD.

I

130

replied Moses in great pleasure; "he was ver3
well-very well indeed, and in high spirits, sir
though relying wholly upon your kindness."
Ah ! yes," interrupted the collector, " a fin
man, sir-a noble, appreciative mind."
"Yes," continued Moses, "and one, sir, which
I think ought not to be subjected to the nuimer
ous cares which weigh so heavily upon it."
1 Ah! indeed. Is he mudh embarrassed
Does be feel his responsibilities much ?",
" He does. But still, in spite of them, I think
he is really happy. He has a continual solace in
the love and society of a lady who appears just
fitted, sir, to warn, comfort, and conunand him,
and, indeed, one whom almost any one might
adore."
" God bless me ! You don't say so ?  Deuce,
I never knew that. He never let it out here.
Ha, ha! Oh !"
Ah ! have you known him long, sir?"
"Long?   For over ten years. Ha, ha! It is
the way with these strong intellects-they are
always balanced with a strong emotional organ-
ization.r-"
"Hardly any one would ever know it," said
Moses, they live so retired with their little
family of two children."
"Good God! But I see you possess his entire
confidence-his entire confidence. You don't-
don't mean to say lie is married ?" cried the col-
lector, raising his voice still higher in astonish-
ment.
"MarriedI Why, of course."
" He whom we have always bantered with re-
maiung a bachelor! Ha, ha! This is the best
thing I.have heard for a century. Ha, ha 1"
This is the result of the scholar's endeavor-
ing to conceal his poverty and social relations,"
thought Moses; "yet it was for an honest pur-
pose,,and I am really sorry I have alluded to it
now.".
"But to business," continued the collector.
You have nothing further in the way of his
written desires or propositions, have you?"
soNo, sir. He merely thought that, by my per-
sonal interviews With you, I could better explain
matters to you."
"The best way; and you have my entire con-
fidence as well as his. 'Te charged you with se-
crecy, of course, and it is between us three sole-
ly, and in accordance with all our wishes, to
strictly maintain it, eh? I see, like him, you are
cautious in mentioning names. A very good
practice, Mr. Winkfield. I take the liberty of
Mentioning yours, as it is assumed, I suppose?
Ha, ha!I
No, sir; my own name, sir. I never do such
things," said Moses, in suppressed indignation;
,I never do such things. (Such is the love of
intrigue among these public men ! Even in such
small matters as granting an application for office,
they insist upon the low machinery of milk-cans
and aliases! I'll mention Mr. Wagbull to him.
It ought to restore him to decency-to a sense
of proper confidence-in the matter.) There is a
gentleman in the city, Mr. Collector, by the name
of Wagbull, who-"
k  Good God! At the party last night?  You
know him.?"
.".Yes, sir," replied the surprised Moses, no-
ticing the apparently intense feeling of the other
party-.

Y    "I simply warn you against him. Have no.
thing to say to him. By mere blundering upon
your plans and talking about them, he may do
more damage to me in one moment than can be
repaired ii a year, He is a perfect nuisance and
dreadful button-holder; but look out for him; I
insist upon it. I wisely keep vlear of him at all
times, and you must."
"-Ah! I didn't know," continued Moses, slowly
recovering from his disagreeable astonishment at
- the feeling betrayed by the collector toward his
worthy friend and proposed parent.
t   "I will not do any thing to-day," continued
the collector; " but you can proceed in making
your arrangements."
"Aht! then, I suppose," said Moses, aroused at
these words, "I may really regard my endeavors
already successful, sir ? Can I feel now that a
situation is promised ?"
"Ha, ha! You are like the rest of them,
young man. You must have your demands set-
tled at once. Yes, a pace will be at your dis-
posal after the elections. I must go to my
office now. You will circulate, of course."
"Circulate? Oh ! yes," replied Moses.
" Well, be easy in your behavior with those
you fall in with, and don't undertake to be too
tight with them."
" You may rest assured of that. It is not my
habit, sir," replied Moses, somewhat confused
and a little indignant at this ethical injunction
of the collector.
" I see, you kindly came withthe can. You
had better leave in the same way," continued the
collector; "be extremely cautious. By the way,
leave me your address, and I will inform you
when and where it is best for me to see you."
Moses was somewhat surprised at this continu-
ed manifestation of the desire for secrecy, but,
with a feeling of gratitude, inexpressible in
words, beaming from his countenance, he com-
plied with the request of the warm-hearted but
eccentric collector, and, gladly resuming the
milk-can, rushed from the basement-door into
the street with such a flourishing, abandon air as
to lead many of the passers-by to conclude that
this was only another one of the common in-
stances of a near-sighted Dutch grocer's clerk
kissing the chambermaid at the basement-door.
CHAPTER LXIV.
THE coNvERsION OF THE HEATHEN-THE nETROTH,
MENT OF MR. JINKS LOMMEYDEw AND MRS. DIF-
FICULTS BECOMES A FIXED FAcT.
THE evening having arrived for the proposed
meeting of colored Christians, with the worthy
view of rescuing their benighted brother, the
aged relative of one of their most respected
members, Mr. Lommeydew, from his terrible er-
ror, Brunswick apprised his master of the hour;
and as it approached, the two wended their way
to the colored chapel. The domestic had- been
highly satisfied with the sudden shock which had
been given to the easy flow of amorous inter-
course between his step-mother and the divinity-
student, and on the way informed his master
that since her discovery of the diabolical proceed-


140                              MR. WIUNh
ings of the ancient grandsire, her air toward
Mr. Lommeydew had apparently become quite a
stern. She issued commands to him with great it
freedom, and the appearance of an unusual anx- h
iety upon the part of the lover plainly signified ti
that a rupture might be possible.         -b
They soon arrived at the church, which was a
already crowded with excited members of both a
sexes. Moses, extremely cautious that his pres- N
ence should not be offensive, quietly gained a c
seat in the obscurity of an unlighted gallery over. s
the entrance, and awaited, with due respect for a
the consecrated house and the humble sincerity n
of its occupants, the opening of the proceedings. s
The old colored gentleman who usually-presided I
in the pulpit was a person who, although ex- t
tremely illiterate, had, by sheer force of charac- t
ter, sincere piety, and unflagging'zeal for the o
secular as well as the religious interests ofV
his flock, retained his position as pastor for a
more than a dozen years, really beloved by'allo
the ardent members, and both beloved and feared
by the lukewarm. The recusant member, in
company with two deacons of the church and his%
grandson, occupied a front seat, and, after much r
free conversation and stir in the assemblage, the I
meeting was called to order by the' entrance ofr
-the pastor. He mounted the desk, and, afterC
arranging the sacred books thereon and hastily
rubbing the dust therefrom with his sleeve, pro-
ceeded, with some excitement, to make to theta
congregation, ere he opened the exercises, aI
statement upon an unexpected subject, which for 1
the Inqment created a profound sensation and
caused internal comparisons to be made by someI
of the more learned in church history between
the reverend pastor and some of the early mar-(
tyrs.I
" My bredren, you all knows Bedford, de uful-I
sterior. Dis bery ebenin', jest afore I cum inI
yere, I met him, jest de oder side of de corner]
grocery, and-my feelin's won't allow me to dwell
on dis ting. I must come to it at once.  leI
asked nie did I have de money for the pulpit-
cloth ?  You all knows, bredren, I forestalled do
committee, and I bought dis yere cloth out o* my
own pocket, 'spectin' de committee would 'me-,
jately act. Well, dey did act; but de money
dey's raised had to go for suthin' else, my bred-
ren. 'Well,' says r, 'dat air little sum'for de-'
Says he, sternly, ''Yes, for de pulpit-cloth.' Den
I said, kinder actin', so I might kinder sorter
dart into de grocery, said I, 'Ah! yes, de sum
for materials and ufnlsterior work on de-' Said
he, interruptin' me, and catchin' holt on to me,
' Look yere, I have waited long 'nuff for dat, and
I's asked you too many times. Now, ef yoti
don't raise'dat air in free days, I'm jest gwine to
take it out of your hide.' Dis was all all he said.
My bredren, dis is a good ole church, I was
sextarit of her, after I left de Newton, for over
four years, while I was studyin' for de ministry,
and I have since run her, off and on, as elder and
preacher, for twelve year'n more. But',do you
tink I's gwine to get tanned on account of yous
all, when you can make it up among you? Dere
will be anoder collection at do close of do ser-
vices, but dat's for anoder ting. Jest you go to
work and raise de seventeen dollars and sixty-
four cents interest. I call on de sisters to pult
dere hands in'do pockets of de males, and cause
'em to exerumiate dere goods libully,"

'1

- I hope our reverend clergyman, Mr. Stokes,
nd the brethren present will pardon the slight
regularity of proceedings on the part of myself,"
ere said a mulatto gentleman who had heard
he appeal of the pastor with deep interest,,"but
before the proceedings proceed I would wish to
make a few remarks upon the party in question,
s has made this abrupt demand on the reverend
Nr. Stokes for the sum now due for the pulpit-
overing, being, if I am correctly informed, some
ev teen dollars and sixty-four cents, principal
n  interest. I wish merely to state the state-
ment that I know the party in question. I have
haved hinm for the past two years, and I frank-
y confess that I never have liked him, but on
he contrary, believe him to be a raskel, and so
o say, bummer of long standing. His beard is
of the meanest, stiffest kind I ever had to deal
with, and he has four warts that I lave to go
round, occupying twice as much tilin as any
other customer"
"Very good, broder Goliab. Dat's to de
point! You all heard brodgr Goliah?    Very
well.  De collection for de pulpit-cloth will
now be took up at once afore we commence.
Brother Claret, you just lock de doors, and I hope
none of de members present will be gettin' out
of de windows disgracefully, as dey did Sunday
afore last ",,
Through the precautions enjoined by the wor-
thy pastor upon brother Claret, the sexton, an
individual with a remarkable nose, spread upon
his face like butter upon bread, the collection
was a success, and the clergyman's mind was re-
lieved of weight and made free for the coinig
duties of the evening. Let us in consonance with
our hero's feelings regard with decorum those
proceedings which, however tinctured with the
ludicrousness of inferior intelligence, should be all
the more respected for the indispensability of its
presence. Our business is principally to mark
the progress of our chief character in his lauda-
ble pursuit of a varied knowledge of the differ-
ent classes of human beings, and collaterally to
relate the progress of the relations existing be-
tween the other characters of this work. We
are thus enabled to pass over the ensuing scene
of regenerating the aged backslider with slight
allusion, though Moses observed in it all the
likely confusion and, so to say, uproar, in over-
coming the persistent obstinacy of the old gen-
tleman. He there saw that even the generous
prosecution of the compassionate works of reli-
gious zeal is as likely to be accompanied with
expressions of anger, wrangling, and even phys-
ical methods of enforcement as are the aims and
objects of the most ordinary worldly desires.
"Such is the incongruous working of human
nature 1" thought he as he gazed in philosophic
earnestness upon the scene. "Zeal for his mor al
welfare is really leading them even to endanger
his life, and their own amicable relations with
each other !"
An immersion in water had been considered
indispensAble to the complete redemption of the
unfortunate brother by all parties met there for
the saike of his spiritual welfare, and it was this
measure in particular that the brother himself
objected to. By the efforts of the pastor and of
Mr. Lommeydew, and by the fatigue of the ex-
citement to which his aged being was being sub-
jected, he had consented to disavow his late se.

Kar

MR. WI
cret practices, when the mention of this measure
caused him at once to return to his previous ob-
stinacy of demeanor. Hence a terrible uproar
ensued, during which the disorganized eithusi-
asm of both brethren and sisters had become so
intense that the reverend Mr. Stokes was forced
to return to his pulpit for the purpose of re-
storing order. During his catechism and ener.
getic clerical entreaties by the side of the crimi-
nal octogenarian, a worthy old brother, who
had in vain endeavored to break into the
ring, sought relief for his feelings by taking pos-
session of the vacant desk and giving out a
hymn which he thought would be adapted to re-
store a union of the zealous forces.'~ As he had
'frequently to stop and spell the harder words
thereof, the time thus lost only added to the con-
fusion, and such of the members as were endeav-
primg to assist him by lifting their voices in the
song, were about giving it up as useless froni
the imsuperable want of concert, when the pastor
arrived at and ejected the brother from the pul-
pit* with a peremptory deprecation of the irreg-
ularity of the proceeding.  The brother glared,
with some natural indignation upon his pastor,
at the forcible manner in which his expulsion
was accomplished, but became softened in -his
feelings as soon as he observed order was being
restoted. The energette ctergyman, throngb the
customary respect which was paid his character,
quieldy enforced his homely commands for
silence and order, and was proceeding to report
with partial- gratification the progress of the
work, when a renewed commotion was again vis-
ible in the neighborhood of the penitent's pew.
Moses immediately observed the deacons sur-
rounded by a crowd, carrying the faintly strug-
glin~g octogenarian in a horizontal position to the
vestry at the rear of the church. In a moment
of exhausted nature he had consented to the ob-
jectionable -measure, and they had resolved to
hurry hin at once into the vestry and immnorse
him there ere his expected exelaniations of ter-
giversation should become too heavy to be pass-
ed unnoticed. Brunswick here slipped quietly
back to Moses's side from the body of the church,
where lie had been endeavoriing to rationally as-
sist in the ceremonies. His step-mother, unex-
pecteily to him, was not present. Perhaps from
a delicate desire to avoid impeding the proceed-
ings, through any feelings of irritation, which the
person whose crime she had detected might have
at her presence. The - pastor, who had hastily
been called from the pulpit, now emerged from
the vestry-room and announced that the evening's'
efforts of the fiock had been crowned with the
desired success. Thereupon great rejoicing en-
sued through the assemblage, and the usual rev-
erent pieces of music were sung with earnest en-
thusiasrn. The sincerity, the honest piety and
the fervent desire for a fellow-being's welfare
manifested by all touched Moses's heart. He
stood up also with Brunswick, and sang the
grand Old Hundredth with a tear of humanity
and reverence glistening in his eye. lie was not
such as could hear that illustrious hymn sung
with time magmiificenit voices mind the fervid, heart-
felt devotion of this humble race, unaffected, or
without a desire to teach them tile glories of a
higher intelligence, and render them capable of
a mere imntellectual adoration of the Maker.
Tire pi-oceedings were now about being ration-

NKFIELD.                                 141
ally brought t a close, from the natural desire
of the audience to indulge in an inspection and
congratulation of the object of the. evening's ef-
forts, and familiar colloquy thereupon. But ere
the doxology was sung the reverend pastor ap-
peared to have still another matter of import-
anee upon his mind, a matter which be proceed-
ed to state would deeply interest all of his con-
gregation, especially as it concerned the future
happiness of two worthy members of the church
and betoved social acquaintances, one of whom
had on that evening been principally concerned,
and ardently energetic in the efforts connected
with the welfare of the aged brother.
"And I now take opportunity," continued he,
with a significant smile and pleasant circumspec-
tion of all the faces turned toward him, "1 joy-
fully take opportunity of congratulatin' the two
upon dere proposed felic'tous union. I now an-
nounce in 'cordance with my custom as pastor of
de church de affiancement of Mr. Jinks Lommey-
dew and Mistis Previous Difficults, to take place
on de fith of do next mont proximo. De bred-
ren will congrattlelate de happy bridegroom after
de services !'
Brunswick started convulsively from his seat.
A semi-subdued utterance of angry denial was
about escaping from his lips, and a contemplated
precipitation of his person over the gallery-rail-
ing was manifested, when Moses restrained hin.
He had been, in the strong language of the ver-
nacular, "sucked in!" And what was worse, he
knew his master saw he had been. What was
the authoritative manner which had lately been
exhibited by his step-mother toward her lover,
but the anticipation of conjugal habits? Why
was so much anxiety displayed by the lover in
effecting an immediate conversion of his aged
relative ? The consent to a public announcement
of the engagement was conditional upon it. Ay,
even the delicacy of the infatuated lady in wi-
framinng from the meeting was now easily ac-
counted for by this aspect of her relations.
In vain did the excited domestic seek permis-
siot from his master to rejoin the crowd below,
under the pretense of p i-rtaking in the usual
harewell embracing and kissing. The fear of a
collision between him and the divinity-student
was too great to permit of it, and Moses ordered
him to accompany him to the hotel,
CHAPTER LXV.
ARCADES AMBO.
A PAY or two subsequent to his abrupt colli-
sion with Mr. Bobby, at the Marrycomeup House,
Mr. Titman began to feel so uncomfortable from
the circumscription of his actions, which his
prudence dictated to him, in reflecting upon the
consequences of that event, that le longed ar-
dently to confide his situation to some frend who
might aid him with his advice, and fortify him
with his sympathy. Mr. Winkfield, who would,
1n0 doubt, should it be disclosed to him, undertake
some such severe measure as that of promptly
reporting his chronic fickleness to Miss Bobby,
was ineligible. lie ther-efore sought Mr. Bar-
nard. The latter at once demanded an explana.
lion of Mr. Titman's late absences and pru-cc-


pations, in particular on the occasion of his din-
ner and as a proof of the intensity of his disap-
pointment thereat, proceeded to knock the Dib-
bletowner's head against the wall and threaten
him with expulsion from the room through the
window. Having thus relieved his feelings, he
turned to listen to the little gentleman.
"I have been lately making such an ass of
myself, Barnard," commenced the latter, assum-
ing a jocose air.
" Of course ; but how ?" asked Mr. Barnard.
" Ha ! ha! I have been allowing a fellow to
oppose me in a delicate matter which I am pro.
secuting," continued Mr. Titman, "all from a
foolish notion of prudence and propriety, which
I now see was entirely erroneous, entirely erro-
neous !" And thereupon he disclosed his rela-
tions with MissBobby, from the inception to the
latest event, with alternations of solemnity, af-
fectation of drollery, pathos, ferocity, and senti-
mentality, which produced in his listener the one
effect of continued risibility.
"I know that hose comp any 20 pretty well,
and I think I've seen that fellow with 'em very
often," replied the latter _presently.  "Bobby!
Let me see-he is a lanky, sandy, round-should
ered boy, with a turn-up nose, and a mustache
containing six hairs, isn't he?"
"I think that is he. Yes," continued Mr. Tit-
man, though he was not quite sure of the exact
number of hairs.
" Very well. Thrash him !" replied Mr. Bar-
nard sententiously.  "Ha ! ha ! that's pretty
good, the way that thief got ahead of you!"
"But he is keeping out of the way! I haven't
been able to meet him at all!" said Mr. Titman,
who for the last two days had partaken of the
air of heaven only at night, and that too in the
most secluded portions of the city.
" If you can't catch him at home, go around to
the carriage-house. If I wasn't engaged now, I
would go there at once and thrash him for
you."
"Thank you, thank you !" replied Mr. Titman,
infected with valor by this kind sympathy.  " I
rather think I shall reserve that pleasure for my-
self, ha! ha !"
Mr. Barnard gave him further fraternal advice,
which produced in him such a wild daring that he
immediately ran off and inspected the Marrycome-
up House from an adjacent block. The next day
he was congratulating himself that fate was re-
lieving him of the painful duty of chastising Bob-
by, by depriving him of the opportunity, was
contemplating the possibility of renewing his
visits to the Marrycomeup House, and was in the
cheerful act of benevolently directing a street-
beggar, who had accosted him for charity in Uni-
versity-place, to the nearest eleemosynary soup-
house, when he descried at some distance, behind
two tree-boxes in the street, that interesting per-
son whom Mr. Barnard had described as having
become round-shouldered from the weight of his
mustache, accompanied by a friend, and they
both appeared to be enjoying the pleasure of dog-
ging his footsteps. He darted agitatedly around
the corner, with preternatural velocity, gained
and turned the next one, bolted into an open
passage-way of a house half-way down the block,
and mounted ~to the second story. It was the
dining-room of a French restaurant, and the only
person therein was a solitary gargor

MR. WINKFIELD.

"Pea-a-soup, sare. Purse, Monsieur ?" asked
the active waiter, emulating Mr. Titman's brisk-
ness.
"Yes ! yes !" answered  Mr. Titman breath-
lessly, as he sank in the chair of a table, and
hurriedly peered out of the window at its side.
That is-no, I don't want any."
'D    *poison?  Feessh'?"
"No! no!"
Ah ! une eotelelle, ou de bile mets ?"
Mr. Titman partly recovered his equanimity.
He could see neither of the enemies in the street.
He resolved to prolong the advantages of his re-
treat by ordering dinner, though it was two hours
before the proper period. The waiter lingered,
dusted a chair with his napkin and wiped the
plate, laid before Mr. Titman, in expectancy.
" Look here ! What did you do that for? Don't
do that again !" said the latter distractedly.
" Oh ! it is an old chair only, and will not :re-
ceive of the damage !" explained the domestic
affably.  "Le roti done! Roast-a-bif ou mut-
ting ?"'       .
" Wee. That is, the buif-roty, and les pota-
Ves, you.know, and a cup of strong tea."
"acre / Du the' avee le roti?  Diable I"
"Wee !"
"1Bien, bien!/ Monsieur."
While the waiter was absent in fulfilling his
order, Mr. Titman concluded to again look out of
the window into the street.  There was an un-
dertaker's shop directly opposite.  He darted
back in terror. In that shop he saw Mr. Bobby
conversing with a shopman, while his friend, in
a fire-coat, was looking up and down the street.
'he first thought that struck him was that the
former gentleman was considerately making ar-
rangements for his coffin before he slaughtered
him, and the second was, that they were undoubt.
edly inquiring of the sexton for information.
The dreadful likelihood of the latter having seen
him enter the restaurant filled him, with renewed
perturbation. As the waiter deposited the roast
beef upon the cloth, Mr. Titman appealed to him
at once:
" You must not go away. Don't leave. I shall
need you all the time !" said be vehemently.
" Ah ! you take de regulaire course, den ? You
eat 'em all?"
"Wee, wee !" replied Mr. Titman hurriedly.
"Pure'e ou soupe Julien, monsieur ?" asked
the satisfied waiter, commencing de novo.
" No, no, neither! That is, you stay here
and-".,
" Ah! Monsieur is eccentric, and eat 'em en'
reves. You take cafe to commence, and soupe
dernierement. Cafe noir ou au lait ?"
" No, no. This will do. But I want you to
stay by me, waiter. There is some difficulty.
Dear sir, you are a most excellent waiter, and I
am in danger I" replied Mr. Titman in incoherent
fervor.
"Comment en danger ?  There is some danger
to eat? .Du tout. It is good, monsieur."  7
" Oh no, vous comprenny, I wish you to stapd
by me. Can you fight ?"
"Hein? Pardon, monsieur," exclaimed the
gargon, prudently recoiling a step or two at this
question-.
" Good God! I Itell you lam in danger l" roared
Mr. Titman. " I expect to be killed ! There is
some one waiting to attack me outside !"

142

,0

" Then monsieur might pay his beel now, s'il  Fortune favors the brave.  The tower-bells
vous plait !" suggested the waiter, commencing rang for a fire, and the foreman darted away.
to show sympathetic alarm at this point.       "I demand satisfaction," resumed Mr. Bobby,
" That is all right, and there is a half-dollar for who at this unexpected interpolation of chance
yourself, waiter," replied Mr. Titman. " I want appeared to turn very pale too.
your friendship, my good friend, to assist me, 0  "Allow me to explain," said Mr. Titman, a little
dear! by going for a policeman, or-or letting me reassured by the same event. "It w %as a most
hide myself in the kitchen, in ease I should want singular state of affairs in which-"
to !'                                          "I don't care any thing 'about that. I know
" Oui, oui !" said the gratified waiter compla- all about it," interrupted Mr. Bobby hurriedly.
cently.                                     "Give me the note of resignation and I'll let you
Mr. Titman made a very deliberate dinner. He off !"
never did believe in hastily dispatching his meals, "Note of resignation ? What, of my friendship
and if he paused every five seconds of the hour with your sister ?"
to gaze into the street, or consult with the waiter, "Yes !" replied Mr. Bobby, feigning to take a
he only thus occupied the time which is usually ferocious step toward Mr. Titman, "and if you
devoted to scolding that functionary, and one don't, I'll- d-nation" I
was just as good an assistant to digestion as the  - "1I shall defend my life and person to the best
other. Finally, he was inexpressibly gratified by of my ability, sir, at the slightest attempt on your
a bulletin of the waiter, who returned from the part to assail them with violence," said Mr. Tit-
front-door and reported that the interested par- man, and in trembling agitation he convulsively
ties in the street were nowhere to be seen.  He felt in his vest-pocket for his penknife.
paid his bill, was led by the benevolent attendant  "You are armed, sir. You are armed !" ex-
through the kitchen of the establishment, and claimed Mr. Bobby excitedly and dodging back.
was discharged into the street by a narrow pas-  "I am not !" replied Mr. Titan impulsively.
sage, hitherto mainly frequented by the collectors  "Do you put me off? Do you put me off,
of saponaceous materials. The door closed upon sir?" asked Mr. Bobby, resuming his threatening
him, and he stood aghast in the presence of the air.
wily Mr. Jinkeyman, foreman of No. 20 hose.   "I am compelled to decline, sir. The circum-
carriage, and intimate friend of Mr. Bobby. At stances force me !" replied Mr. Titman.
a whistle, the latter joined his fellow-picket, from  "Very well. You won't give me the note,
his lookout at the front of the establishment. The eh ?" continued Mr. Bobby rapidly.
pleasures of the chase which had before animated  "1 In the street ?  No, sir. It is an improper
the countenances of both now gave way to a place, and beside that, I-I haven't any thing
pretty successful expression of ferocity upon the- to write it with !" replied Mr. Titman weakly.
visage of the principal, and that of diabolio mer-  "Oh 1 you haven't any thing to write it with !
riment upon the ugly physiognomy of the con- Very well, I'll see whether-Good God !-"
federate. Mr. Titman made an attempt to run,   The sentence was not finished. Mr. Titman
but he could not; his strength was gone,     had desperately resolved to escape by flight at
"I'm  going to knock your head off. Just this point, and to cover his purpose was feigning
come down to this alley below here, where no earnestness in seeking for the desired pencil in
one can see us, and I will knock your head ofF," his pockets. He looked up. To his astonish-
said Mr. Bobby deliberately.                 ment, he observed his antagonist, engaged in the
Mr. Titman never. heard of any one expressly very act which he had contemplated, half-way
taking himself to a specified locality to have his down the block, flying rapidly from the scene.
head knocked off, and declined as audibly as he  "By heaven! He-he must have gone to the
could to set the example.                    fire!" said Titman.  -
" Very well, then. I'll do it here," replied his  He lingered in confusion to see the other dis.
antagonist briefly.                          appear, and then turned and ran with equal speed
" Allow me to explain," said Mr. Titman, look- to Mr. Barnard's residence, where lie at once
ing around feebly for a policeman           breathlessly narrated to that gentleman the re-
"Wait, Bake. You've got him. Invite him    cent encounter.
to come round to the carriage-house. He can do  A sudden idea struck the latter.
the writing' there," suggested the foreman. "And  "He bothered and insulted you in the streets.
let him  have a friend. Every thin' fair, you Very well. You can sit down and write him a
know."                                       note. Not of retraction or resignation ,or any
"No, I won't. 17l do it here, in public, even such stuff--but a challenge, d-n him !"
if he hasn't got sense enough to see it is a private "What, with pistols and swords ?" asked Mr.
affair and go into the alley !" said Mr. Bobby, in Titman, overwhelmed with excitement.
an apparent concentration of fury.            "Certainly. He will choose which. Pistols,
" What mean these extraordinary measures of course. Nobody in this country knows any
in the public streets," said Mr. Titman, with a thing about fencing."
tremendous effort at sternness, "against my-my  "But, dear me, I don't know any thing about
person ?"                                    pistols !" suggested Mr. Titman.
"Will you go into the alley ?  Or say the   "Pshaw! I'll have you placed near enough to
word, and I'll blow the top of your head off here," him, so you- can't miss.. Go on and write it!"
continued the terrible Bobby.                said Mr. Barnard authoritatively.
"I see it is perfectly useless to waste further  "But, my dear sir, Moffatina has an affection
time in reasoning with you, and, as I have an en- for him, after all, and these proceedings may
gagement, I will leave you," said the agitated cause her to look upon me with--"
Mr. Titman,-feigninga calmness, though pale as a " I can't help that. Go on and write the
sheet.                                       note !"

MR. WINKFIELD.

143


144                               MR. WINKFIELD.
CHAPTER LXVI.                  have at this moment induced you to be so sincere
T               with me?"
MR. WAGBULL COMMENCES TO BE SUSPICIOUS, AND wI   will, my dear Moses," continued the insane
THE GREAT COLLECTOR GROWS MORE CONFIDEN- would-be statesman determinedly; " I frankly
TIAL.                                     confess that it is solely in consequence of a wish
IN consequence of the singular requests of the which I have had since I have formed projects
collector, Moses resolved to forego the pleasure with regard to Bessie's future, that I might have
of Mr. Wagbull's society entirely until the ap- a son-in-law who, by his natural predilections, was
pointnent of his friend was fairly made; but in fitted for the brilliant career of a public mian-
crossing Madison square the day subsequent to one with whom I could feel I might consult upon
his interview with the collector, he met him, anx- the various labors which, from my social posi.
ious to know the result of the conference. Moses, tion, I owe to the advancement of the liberal
not only remembering the injunctions of the col- views and sound civilization of one of the most
lector, but also that they were accompanied by enlightened policies which history can point to in
views'of Mr. Wagbull's intellectual calibre which lofty exemplification of the progress and advance
could hardly be called flattering, was thus forced, of liberty and civilization, aimed at by one of the
in relating the result of his interview, to be ex- most enlightened policies which-when-that is
tremely cautious both to obey those, injunctions -as I might say-"
and to avoid rufflingthe sensibilities of the wor-  "But my dear Mr. Wagbull," said Moses, feel.
thy citizen.  The old gentleman detected his ing it to be quite safe to interrupt the other at
guardedness and reserve, and indefinite and sur- this point, "although I really feel, indeed, that I
prising suspicions began to float across his mind. am destitute of that peculiar power-of that tact
He suddenly recollected that at the hotel at and diplomacy which you have often referred
whieh Moses resided there dwelt a minor candi- to-and, indeed, have not even that admiration
date 'for the mayoralty, Mr. Luke Noblock  that for it which is next to possessing it, I still hope
Moses was on terms of intimacy with him; and to convince you that your daughter's future
that, as far as lie had disclosed his possession of might not, perhaps, be so happy when based
any political principles or views, they were more upon such a career.!'
in accordance with this person's than his own.  "No, no, Moses," said Mr. Waghull in great
What is the matter with hin ?" thought Mo- obstination, as they walked along together to
ses, as lie observed the skeptical looks and re- ward his house, "I have determined not to
flections of Mr. Wagbull.  "He really looks as if listen to the syren voice of feeling in this matter,
lie did not bt-li'eve a word I have been saying."  Hlowever much I msy- otherwise -wish it, I still
"Look I cre, Moses," said the old gentleman, consider that I must-  Hallo! there is Thonas
iwith an unhappy air, "when I infor you that 1, coming home. This is the tenth time I have ap-
as wvell as many other of Mr. Conkey's fiids, plUer? for an inte rview at the Custom House with-
have solicited in vain an audience of any kind out Success in the last week. But, Moses, the
fr.mn the collector during the past week, you will collector's porter is a friend of Thomas's, and
not be surprised to know that your interview  I am in hopes," continued the infatuated par-
with him seems extremely singular-extremely tisan.
so-taking into coi.sideration the unimportant  "No one is to be let in to-day, sir," said the
subject upon which you profess to have been en- trusty scout, stepping up and unfoldingtis daily
gaged with him." bulletin, " 'cept a Mr. Winkifield. But he is
" Proi1,esclaimed Moses. "I asure you our Mr. Winhiield, sir, I found out; and what
I have really informed you of the true causes of is more, I've got a letter from th collector for
my visit to hun. Indeed, it is that, anl no you, sir," continued tre domestic, p roing to
other."                                     Moses; "1Dennis- let me bring it,. provided I giv
thAnd you say he was not disposed to listen to it into your hands sure myself, snrg."
any one else but you upon it -,'              "At "Psaide]iN. Iaslnml starting, and looking
"LYes. He assured me that it was not at all at  os  in a percing manner.
necessary, you know."                         Moses took the letter and rewarded Thomas.
"And do you mean to say that in making that   I suppc," sal our eirot ast he opened  it,
assurance hp referred solely-alcin !-solely to 11I suppose lie has concluded it best to make the
the application in behalf of a destitute friend ?"  appointment atn ice, adhas informed me of it.
11Why, certainly. There was no other. What Really this is an unexpected pleasure."1
otber could there ber?                        " Look you, Moses," said the worthy father of
MoteI you are a very intelligent young man, our hero's hope abruptly and in decided irrita-
and you have won my feelings as well as those tion, "this won't do. It is useless; and I simply
of my friends, I confess. It is not without deep hope that you will not attempt to keep tip that
interest that I have noticed your addresses to my subterfuge ainy longer.",
daughter Bessie; but you must not from all this,"  ' But I asure you, my dear Mr. Wagbull !" con-
continueid the old grentlemnan in deep emotion- tinned Moses earnestly.
"you must not conceive false hopes. I must     Moses, said the latter calmly. "It is not
frankly declare to you that I do not think you your nature to dissimulate, nor have you had such
can ever become my son-i-law."              tn experience would teach you how to do it
, thank you for yur frankness"       aMo  with success. It is not natural. I feel that the
nouncement, while he aide in a frm voice, as i ntingice dothaninsightatr sct" ato fo
endeavoring to infuse a thoroughly philosophical a pet i Nothopefo whtvr- Lapos"k,
yoreisimon thercorsoie, ou will gsrn that you are less near the truth of its contents
yordc me thieeo rkon  tie reso s  hih in your conjectures than I amn," continued Moses

'7

warmly, and thereupon he proceeded to peruse regi, wended his way thereto through mud and
the following contents of the letter:       rain. It was a dark and drearyv night, the wind
"eMy dear Winkfield, meet me this evening at blew in fitful gusts, and as he approached the lo-
eight o'clock in Popham's coal-yard. The Post- cality, muffled in his overcoat, to avoid observation
Officeshows signs of disaffection I It must be as well as to defend himself against the elements
attended to at once. There are parties on the he felt himself more like an amateur Guy Fawkes
watch.  Be extremely cautious.  Do not come or an incendiary bound for a mammoth coal-fire
anywhere near my office. The coal-yard is a very than the free and conscientious spirit, which up
dark one, and Popham, who is a faithful friend, to that moment he had believed himself to be.
has promised to see that we are properly screened. While instituting a cautioussurvey of the locality,
Beware of the dog I"                        from his lively remembrances of the adventure
(" This is extremely singular. I really can not with the Westchester animals, the collector him-
make out this extraordinary mystery. What does self tapped him upon the shoulder, and without a
he mean by the Post-Office being disaffected!) word signified thathe should follow him into the
I freely confess to you, Mr. Wagbull, that this note coal-yard, when the following conversation im-
does not refer to the subject which I naturally mediately took place in the shed of an old white
apprehended it did, and, what is more, I must say, horse, who  pas just discernible in the gloom,
I do not know what it does refer to! Were the feeding placidlysat the bottom.
note not confidential, I might seek an explanation colThere are rat in the Post-Office I" said the
of YOU."                                    collector.
"Ah ! very likely, very likely !"         "No !"
" But I assure you positively that my whole  "Yes, and do ycu think you can catch 'er, Mr.
relations with the author thereof, as far as I have Winkfield "
understood them, have been simply with reference  "No, sir," replied Moses emphatically, "I do
to securing a position beneath him for my friend, not"
Mr. Lampson and nothing more."                 Very well, very well.  I suppose I must
' You may perhaps reasonably tell that to see to them myself. You have got enough to do.
Bedsie or her grandmother, but it appears a little But we must be very cautious. If what we are
foolish to endeavor to mystify me. Although I do doing is found out, we are gone !"
not ask you to invent a better reason for your  The idea which passed through Moses's head
relations with the collector, you may at least at this was, that if any body should succeed in
avow the motives which compel you to maintain discovering what they were doing, they would
this secrecy. That at least, I think, I may ask of certainly know much more than he did himself;
you. I honor your attachment to principles, and but he 'said nothing and awaited patiently, with
if you feel it to be yourduty to sustain them in the hope of discovering some clue to the extraor-
this secret manner and at the expense of friend- dinary position in which lie now found himself
sBhip, I must of course submit."            placed. That there was something else in the
"But you are certainly permitting yourself to matter beside the mere application which he
make a mountain of importance of this matter, had made for an office, he was now quite sure-
in which I am confident you will discover shortly and that which he had first supposed to be the
that there is nothing. I am sure that whatever somewhat arbitrary humor of this gentleman, h
the mystery is in this affair, it must be connected now felt convinced was the result of son'coccult
with the proposed appointment of my friend-"  plans upon which the latter placed great import-
&amp;(Again IuThia is a little too much, Moses. A  ance. But what these plans were, or how. he
little too much."                           had been involved as a participator therein, Mosess
,"If I obey the wishes of the collector upon was entirely unable to resolve. And what is
this point, it is only to secure that appointment more, he felt that he did not dare to ask the col-
as-",                                      leter. The latter had already, in response to
"Devil take the appointment !" cried Mr. Wag- his application replied that it would be granted.
bull, in a rage. "See here, Moses! I have agreat What would the result be, were the influential
deal of friendship for you, and perhaps you have man to discover he had been imposed upon ? If
for me-"                                    ill-treatment from  his minions was not to be
"Can you doubt it ?" Moses replied. le felt feared, the promise in favor of Mr. Lampson
a strong desire to reveal the contents of the letter would certainly be revoked. Our iero, therefore,
to Mr. Waghbulh, for the purpose of questioning felt justified in simply watching, with intense in-
him thereon, but the collector's instructions for- terest, and a great display of sympathy, the con-
bade.                                       versation and manner of the unconscious poli-
" Very well, as a final proof of it, I now demand tician.
that you shall explain to me the causes of this  "Cooper, the head of the glue interest, prom.
undue ' mystery which is taking place in this ises to stick to us !" said the latter r
matter," continued Mr. Wagbull.               "Ia! ha! Vtiy good! Ve-y good, indeed I"
"I would, but I can not, for a reason which I said Moses, thinking he observed in the phrase
feel must be satisfactory to you."          evidences of a playful spirit upon the part of his
"What is that?2"                          dim colocuter.
That I don't know niyself!" exclaimed Moses  "Ahem! did you understand me ?" said the
great excitement,                         collector with some sternness.
Complying with the eccentric request of the "Oh!I yes, you were observing-"'
collector to mee hm in the usre place for a    I say that the risis i pproahng, Cooper
conference m tioned in the note, Moses sallied adheres to us, but the-O that wretch and mis-
out toward the pointed hour, and with a stout creant, Snaffles, of the Fifth ward !" continued
cudge ~~cjjad procured to be used in case the collector, with a sudden gasp, and he ap.
.o-sierg ncy upon the Cerberus of that Stygian peared to be attacked with an extraordinary lit

MR. WINKFIELD,

145


of rage.Te commenced to indulge recklessly in parties. As to Snaffles, seek out the scoundrel.
the wildest of pugilistic gestures, and performed There is no use trying to cajole him. You might as
a hornpipe of anger, which really alarmed our well entice him into some apartment, quarrel
hero from its singular grotesqueness, while he with him, knock the rascal, over, and quietly ear-
gratedrhis teeth together so loudly, that even the ry him out of the city while he is insensible, in
old horse stopped his mastication in alarm, imag- a hack. You must be cautious; he is very quick
inning his cornto be in danger.               and muscular. Hit hard enough to confine him
"nn0 that scoundrel, caitiff, wretch, rascal, to his bed for a week 1" 0
swindling impostor and humbug! He thinks he    (" Good God! here is a pleasing request ! To
will crush me. There is no notion of mine which attempt to murder and kidnap a fellow-citizen-)
he does not attempt to forestall."           But, my dear sir," replied Moses, "whether I
" Calm  yourself, I pray you," said Moses at may or may not deprecate this means of segre-
the close of this frugal and abstemious use of ex- gating the scoundrel and Fifth ward caitiff, you
pressive epithets.  "Calm yourself, sir."    will plainly see that I am not the one for this
pr Is there no way is which I can express the operation. I am not fitted for it. Cooper is the
unmitigated hate and contempt which I have for one. He is not near-sighted, is he, and will not
that despicable rogue and ineffable scoundrel? be likely to fail, eh ?"
yII..."                                        "Oh ! very well. It would be a pleasure to me,
(" Gracious!)  Wait a moment.     Restrain if I could myself. But Cooper shall see to it,
yourself, sir," said Moses, endeavoring to place a and you attend to the notes. Here they are.
hand upon the other's shoulder, as he observed The view of the situation is the same in each.
symptoms of a renewal of his physical frenzy.  Be careful and see personally that the right men
symOh! I wish I had him here. I-would grind get them," concluded he, handing the confused
him into the earth !" continued the politician, un- Moses two sealed documents. " Now let us part.
mindful of the humane efforts of Moses. "I I will go first. When you come out, spring the
would take that lump of coal, and I would knock lock and emerge cautiously."
his head into a thousand atoms against it. I   "Where the deuce have I got myself to? And
would lead him backward against that horse's what does this all mean 9" asked Moses of him-
heels, and cause the animal to kick him through self, as he stumbled out of the coal-yard. "I
the roof of this shed. I would put my fist right came here with the hope of being able to com-
through his neck. I would take 'him   by the pretend the mystery, and now I am more puz-
heels, and beat him against that wall there. I zled than ever! Here's Cooper to assault the
would pull his nose off, and throw it over the scoundrel in the Fifth ward, and I am to see that
fence. I would, so help me heaven, and then the notes suggested by the secretary operate on
run and jump upon it with pleasure V"        both of the -parties!I Who is the secretary, and
If there were any evidence better than this un- who are both parties?  Who is one of the par-
bent familiarity upon the part of the collecto, ties?  I should be satisfied if I could discover
-Mogeg did not want it to aggure him that ho was that. No address!" continued he, as he stared
considered as something else beside a mere ap- at the documents under a gas-lamp. "It is cer-
plicant for office, even an intimate by the illustri- tainly connected with politics, and if I could only
ous politician, sharing with him his annoyances sound Mr. Wagbull-but no, I may overturn the
and griefs,                                  whole matter by doing so. I begin to feel a
"The knave, villain, ruffian, rogue, shyster, singular curiosity to know what all, this is. I
scoundrel, blackguard and urchin! The urchin! must go on. It is too late now. It will not do
D-d urchin !" to discover myself as an impostor to the collector
At this last substantive, evidently felicitously now, I rtst go ahead"
used after the manner of the old English poets,
Moses observed a change come over the ecstasy
of his friend. It died away to a comparative              CHAPTER    LXVIL
Calm, and drawing a deep sigh, the- patient him-I
self observed that he already felt much better, MR. TITMAN AND MR. BoBBY JUMP AT A SATIsFAC-
and he regained once more the presence which     ToRY CONCLUSION OF THEIR DIFFERENcES.
Snaffles had so rudely put to flight.
"What is the matter with him, this Fifth ward  TnE satisfaction meeting between the offended
man?   What has he been doing ?" here inquired Titman and his persecutor was agreed upon. The
Moses in forgetful curiosity.                preliminaries were arranged by Mr. Barnard and
"mDoing?  He hunts me malignantly night the foreman of No. 20. A pleasant and secluded
and day, and thinks he can make himself collec- place, near a bed of oysters, on Long Island, in
tor because he has been a member of Congress. the vicinity of Flushing, was selected as the spot.
Heavens ! if he should find us out, I am gone ! It was agreed that Mr. Bobby and his party
O the scoundrel, wret-"                      should proceed thereto by the Forty-second street
"Never mind! never mind," said Moses hast- ferry, that Mr. Titman and his would meet him
ily. "By the way, as you said, we are sure of there in a sail-boat, and that four friends on each
the glue interest, and s                    side should be admitted to the entertainment.
t      tMr. Winkfield, tIe two things now  to be  "Every tling is complete," said Mr. Barnard
done" said the collector sternly and hurriedly, to Titman, after informing him of these measures.
as he subsided, "are, first, this fellow, this caitiff "I've borrowed Uncle nd's boat, and Tom New'.
and wretch must betemporarily got out of the ton, a friend of mine, fho is studying medicine,
waysoweca  prpelygoon      While he is has promised to act as Isurgeon, and-"
aou there isano usoerHe'l be sure to find you Titinan groaned aloud.
aout  eeod the noe.  ugseb thesr-            "What is the matter ?" asked his lively sec.-
tar-y must be at once operated upon by both te .ond.

MR. WINKFIELD.

147

MR. WINKFIELD.

I

146

"Do you think there will be any need of
surgeon ?" asked Mr. Titman feebly.
"May be not. If you put your ball straigh
through your man, Newton won't have much t
do. But it is best to have him for form's sake."
"But, good God, my dear sir, my man's bal
may go straight through me !",.
."It is a fact; if yours. don't go into him, hi
will probably go into you !" replied Mr. Barnard
comprehensively.  "However, I'll try to hav
the sunwith you, my boy, and it will be an im
mense advantage !"
I feel it my duty to inform Winkfield of this
matter, Barnard," exclaimed Titman solemnly.
hIt is certainly my duty as a friend to inform
him that-that I have felt it necessary to protect
my interests in this-this terrible way, and see if
he-"
" Phaw! Don't you do any thing of the sort.
He is opposed to duels, except when he wishes to
fight one himself, confound him; and, my dear
sir, he would rush at once-to the police-office
and put a stop to it.  Just think of it !' ex-
claimed Mr. Barnard in an alarmed manner.
"I1have written a letter to my father. He
lives alone on a farm four miles from Dibbletown.
Is it right to deprive that aged man of the bright
hope and comfort, to which he has been looking
as the solace of his declining days, in the future
career and rising prosperity of his only-"
"Look here, Titman, is this the way to treat
me for what I have done for you in this matter ?"
asked Mr. Barnard, much irritated by Titman's
show of feeling.  Bothering me about your ris-
ing career, when you know I am doing the very
best thingI can for it.. Stop your nonene, and
attend to your business, or I'll knock you into
the next story.",
Still, as Mr. Titman appeared much depressed
about his filial relations, the energetic guardian
of the little gentleman's honor concluded to en-
couragethim by alluding to the prospective pleas-
ures of the excursion.
"We'll have a pleasant sail up the East River,"
said lie. "Tom Newton is full of jollity and an-
ecdotes. lle'll tell you lots of 'em. We'll carry
a lunch, and have some oysters before we go on
the ground, and, my dear boy, cheer up, your old
gentleman wouldn't object to your enjoying your-
self, if he was here."
Mr. Titman made a partially successful effort,
and presently, with a renewed injunction from
Barnard to cautiously refrain from disclosing the
matter to Moses, betook himself from Mr. Bar-
nard's chambers-in which the conversation oc-
curred-to his own room, there to seek moment-
ary tranquillity by shutting in his being from the
world, and shuttirwg out his mind from his being.
As the day approached, however, he might have
discovered the affair to Moses by ius looks, had
our hero not been absorbed himself in a private
matter, and superficially attributed his friend's
depression to bilicasness or some other tempo-
raiy physical d rangement. A kind of numbness
of intellect hattaken possession of the wretched
SDibbktow ner. His actions by day had been the
Miechaical obedience of Mr. Barnard's directions;
but Nm the still watches of the night, when his
e' itment was purified by the seclusion of his
-own' chamber and the darkness, his spiritual cir-
al effrtns  s eetyaroused to drive away
aleorsat sleep or personal composure. If he

a convulsively started up once frqm his couch, he
did so fifty times; and when he started up, he
t usually concluded his efforts at nervous relief by
o turning partial summersets thereon, or performing
other complicated gymnastic feats which in an or-
1 diary state of mind would have been perhaps im-
possible. The one idea of future danger became at
s last a kind of physical lump in his system, moun-
I tainous and iqpmovable ; not as though he had a
c single bullet in an unextractable place therein,
- but as if about three hundred tons of lead had
been deposited there.
The day arrived, and the sail up the river was,
what Mr. Barnard anticipated, truly delightful.
That is, when considered apart from the object
for which it was instituted. The air was balmy,
the water gently rippling, and the party extreme-
ly sociable. The surgeon was drunk, but his in-
ebriation was of that affable kind which is so
often held to be a partial palliation for the condi-
tion. He kindly displayed his instruments to
Mr. Titman, explained the nature and variety of
gunshot wounds, exemplified the method of treat-
ing compound fractures, extracting bullets, am-
putation, etc., by manipulations of the latter's
person, talked scientifically about the os pericar-
dii, splanchnic cavities, spinous processes of the
seventh cervical, esophagospasmnus, costo-clavi-
cular ligaments and other parts of the human
anatomy,.until that gentleman madly gave up the
ineffectual use of brandy and other powerful
stimulants, and secretly resolved to abscond to
the woods as soon as the vessel' touched the
shore. When it arrived, however, he was totally
unable to put his project into execution. More
dead than alive, he was supported by Mr. Bar-
nard and another gentleman to the field of battle,
where his legs doubled up entirely and he reclined
against a tree to occupy his time with closed
eyes in wishing he was back in Dibbletowrn and
awaiting the arrival of his antagonist. The ferry-
boat performed its second trip, crc the other
party arrived, but they finally were descried in
the distance, slowly wending their way to the
place of meeting. They, too, were evidently ex-
periencing some difficulty in bringing their bellig-
erent to the field, even more tham their opponents
had undergopme; for, whereas Mr. Titman requiired
only two to support him, such was Mr. Bobby's
condition, that lie could be carried by no less
than four. Of course, under such circumstances,
there was extraordinary embarrassment in placing
the 'men.  A constant succession of awkward
reversals, droppings, and premature and danger-
ous discharges of their weapons by both, ensued,
which aroused the impatience of the spectators,
drew forth thoughtless remarks from many of
them, and well-nigh exhausted the perseverance
of the two seconds. In addition, Mr. Barnard
had commenced to feel a very uncomfortable
sympathy for his friend, a state of feeling which
was very naturally being converted into increased
antipathy to, and irritation at, the stalwart fore-
man, who was Mr. Bobby's second.
"My man offers to apologize," said the latter
to Barnard, "if -your'n will fust state there was
no cause for sendin' him a challenge !"
"Well, lie won't do that !" said Mr. Barnard
vehemently.
" Of course aot. 'Taint according to rules, any
how," replied the foreman.
" What the devil do you know about rules ?"


MR. WKFIELMR. WINKFIELD

asked Mr. Barnard in contemptuous irritation.  " You can't lick me!" replied Mr. Bobby.
"Suppose you keep your jaw to yourself."      "I don't wish to," said Titman candidly. "I
"I don't want no muss with you or any of don't wish to have any thing to do with you, in
Five's fellers! If I don't go to breed no scabs that or any other way."I
on my nose at fires, it's because I knows what I  " Eh ? Very well, then, I am satisfied. I don't
ought to do, and the same here, which is mgore'n feel well."
you or any of Five's fellers know how to behave,"  "Whatdid you threaten me for ?"
replied Mr. Jinkeyman briefly, pausing in his  "What did you challenge me for ?"/
labors as second.                             "I don't wish to have a y words with you
" You are a pretty boy, but you can't play base until you move off from th t apple-tree I" said
ball with a feather in your nose," continued Mr. Mr. Titman firmly     great presence of
Barnard.                                    mind taking an  cipient step to impress his an-
This remark taken literally would seem rather tagonit.
uinmeaning and inapplicable, but its exasperating "Ver ell, then. What do you want ?" said
force was ingeniously heightened by the very fact Mr. Bobby, moving nearer.
of noting but a taunt being conveyed.        "I want you to withdraw your threats i"
"You had better change your boardin'-house. "I will, if you withdraw your challenge !"
Cats is too satiatin' !" replied Mr. Jinkeyman in  "I shall not do it," continued Mr. Titman, fol-
the style of the North-American Indian.     lowing up his manifest advantage. "You threat-
" Jinkeyman, when you were born, twins'were ened me first, sir. If you now withdraw those
brought into the world," continued Mr. Barnard; threats and assure me of future immunity from
"tone was a good little boy, the other was a thick  f unwarrantable molestation on your part of
skulled jackass. The good little boy died I" sgy relations with one whom I esteem, to say
"If it wasn't for this here duel, I'd lam your the least, more highly than you do, I willconsent
head oft," said Mr. Jinkeyman briefly. "Let's to a pacific adjustment of differences with you.
have it over any how. I can't gone ' to have my Otherwise, I feel it my duty to at once sternly
trouble into it for nothin'!i"  -         . resume my efforts at satisfactionin the method
"You are so devilish anxious for it, suppose pointed out by the code of honor."
you try a turn with me. You don't dare to, for  The remarkable firmness and dignity of Mr.
you know you can't hit the side of a house with Titman's bearing continued in its effect upon the
a six-inch nozzle, let alone killing an clcpnant other belligerent. The latter rather hastily re-
with a pistol i"                           viewed the cause of the difference between them,
"I will, by --, and Bobby may go to ---."  and in further resignation summed up by mur-
" Come on, then " cried Mr. Barnard exult. i during his willingness to refer the question of
ingly.         priorityy of retraction to an umpire.r                             ,e
The seconds at once took the place of the as-  "No! no !" exclaimed Mr. Titman hurriedly,
tonished principals. For form's sake they wildly and he east a glance of fear at the confused mass
shot at each other twice, and then throwing down of adjacent Philistines.t
their weapons, ran at each other and plunged  " Then let us toss up."
into an immediate and most terrific contest with "But we can not. We haven't a piece to
the appliances of nature instead of those of art. throw e" replied Mr. Titman, recalling the com-
This was altogether unexpected, and, perhaps, pliance with the code, by which they had both
contrary to the rules which govern such formal been divested of their loose change, durng the
xneetinge for the personal reparation of wrongs ; preparatory arrangements. 't
but it was justifiable, if not even legitimate, on  "See who can jump the furthest!1" continued
the ground that the antagonists in this ease were Mr. Bobby, with the remarkable promptness of
more familiar with the weaponsthey now made suggestion, common to persons laboring under
use of, than with any other kind,           frenzy of desire.
In lesa than five minutes, the fight swelled into " I agree  " replied Titman magnanimously
a general gladiation and tournament. The four  And in this singular but simple manner, while
friends on each side, unable to restrain their en- the collateral parties were sghting for nothing,
thusiasm, at once tackled each other in pairs, was the principal difficulty of the day adjusted-
while the inebriated surgeon was pleasingly look- Mr. Titman's legs were the shortest, but they
ing over his instruments in confused co prehen- were temporarily equal im power to any three
sion.and high expectation, and the two worthies, times their length, for his quarrel was just. He
to assist in repairing whose wrongs the whole triumphed. The two shook hands, and then await-
party had originally assembled on the ground, ed, at a secure distance, the opportunty to. an-
fled together, from the main scene of conflict, nowunce to their repeetive friend the complete
toward the confines and frontiers of the field, and honorable dissipation of their misunderstand-
As they turned to observe the progress of events, ing. After a lengthy and apprehensible period
Mr. Bobby made a feeble pass at Titman's head of time, the general combat became irregular,
with his right hand, and then retreated a short grew weak, and finally ceased with the common
distance and placed himself in a fortified attitude. consent, caused by muscular exhaustion, by the
Mr. Titman dodged rapidly, fell back also, and apparent impossibility of either side gaing the
doubling his fists, dared hiss opponent to advance, victory, and by the monotony of the-repeated clinch-
Mr. Bobby then backed steadily toward an apple- ings, passes, defenses, and knock-downs. The
tree in his rear, for the undoubted purpose of explanation of the principals ensued.  Three
conducting the fight at long range, and shelling cheers were given respectively for Five and
Mr. Titman with a few of the soundest windfalls Twenty. Refreshment was generally taken. The
beneath it.                                oyster-bed was robbed of a large number of its
" That isn't fair" cried the latter in pune- inhabitants, and, finally, Mr. Barnard, exhilarated
tilious vehemence. by the sight of the two black eyes which he had

148

succeeded in giving Mr. Jinkeyman, invited the
whole party to return in the sail-boat. Some
wrangling occurred upon the voyage back, be-
tween the two seconds, respecting the imperfect
skill which the foreman of Twenty displayed in
managing the ropes, which had been magnani-
mously proffered him by Mr. Barnaxfd; and, in
endeavoring to furnish him, notwithstanding the
crowded state of the boat, with a due knowledge
thereof, by physically driving it into his head,
the champion of Five knocked the other over-
board and fell-over himself. There the original
contest between them seemed likely to be renewed
in all its vigor; but after splashing and fighting
in the water for some time like a couple of en-
raged seals, they were induced to return to the
vessel, which proceeded onward, and at last
safely reached its destination at the city dock.-
We could wish to have been able to proceed
and show to the reader interested in the career
of the gallant Dibbletowner, that, with all the
difficulties and obstructions to the prosecution of
his suit for the hand of Miss Bobby, thus hap-
pily removed, he pursued this delicate object of
his wishes to a successful conclusion. But what
will that reader say, when we plainly state that
we can not;' and that it was the incurable fickle-
ness of the gentleman himself which shortly
brought it to an untoward close?  We will quote
the words of the victim himself of this singular
weakness, to explain the unhappy matter.
"It was in the Park, Moses," said he to our
hero.  "Dear me, I never experienced such a
mysterious, inexplicable revulsion.  We were
driving along with another lady and gentleman
from the Marrycomeup House, when, just as we
reached the border of the lake, we met her cousin
in a tilbury, a most blushing creature of seven-
teen, who cast a fatal, roguish smile at me! It
was useless, Moses. I endeavored to conceal my
feelings for, weeks thereafter, but Moffaitina at
last discovered them, and it was all over. Hea.
vens t but perhaps the consolation of her sweet
cousin's society may hereafter afford me some re-
lief for the distraction I now suffer!" -
It was true. Miss Bobby discovered his incon-
.stancy, and frankly confessing that she herself
had been for some time filled with misgivings
that a person of his ferocious, warlike, and bellig-
erent disposition might not be suitable to her
temperament, requested him to relinquish the
further prosecution of his suit, and shortly after-
ward rendered any such measures useless, by
marrying, in great satisfaction, a consumptive
widower, with an ample establishment, which in-
eluded two children, one of whom was as old as
herself.
CHAPTER LXVIII.
MosES, CONSULTING WITH BESSIE, DECIDES UPON
THE DESTINATION OF THE NOTES.
THE day after Moses's last interview with the
collector, Mr. Wawbull was seated in his parlor,
absorbed in a profound meditation.
"It is a most singular state of affairs," solilo-
quized the old gentleman, " not only that he
should be engaged in matters for which I have
always supposed him entirely unfitted, but that
he should be thus engaged in set opposition to

me. I respect his attachment to principles, but
the devil take his principles! It seems useless
to- attempt to persuade him or even question
him, and the most exasperating thing about the
whole matter is the astute air of candor and
frankness under which he so adroitly hides his
designs. Hallo! here he is again," concluded the
exercised politician, as the mysterious object of
his vexed reflections entered his presence once
more.
"1I was engaged last night, so I have to pay my
last evening's visit this morning," said the latter
gayly.
"(Heavens! Witir the collector, I'll bet my
head.) Yes, Moses, and undqubtedly your even-
ing was occupied in more important matters than
those which would have led you here. There is
no use disguising it, Moses."
"My dear Mr. Wagbull, I presume, of course,
that you refer to my relations with the collector,"
said Moses, calmly but earnestly ; "whatever
your conjectures may have been thereon, I hope
to convince you, when I assure you solemnly that
my sole intention therein is but the one simple,
ardent wish to provide my friend, Mr. Lampson,
with-"
" Again ! Very well, very well "
"My interest in this matter may seem to be
too intense, but I feel conscious that, were you
acquainted with the noble character and unfortu-
nate situation of a scholar, who-"
" Look here, my dear Moses; enough of this.
I respect your attachment to principle--deeply
respect it; and I confess that I have been wrong
in refusing to accord to you the possession of
that peculiar intellectual ability which is so justly
esteemed as one of the most brilliant gifts which
can be bestowed upon man. My judgment of
your character has been in error, and I hasten to
repair it. Your attachment to my daughter, then,
comes back in its fullest force, and I can see no
obstacle to its natural fulfillment now. Yes, Mo-
ses, confess to me frankly the true relations
which exist between you and the collector, and I
at once give my warm consent to your marriage
with Bessie."
"My dear, kind friend," said Moses in deep
emotion, "I could, for this unexpected generosi-
ty, throw myself at your feet, but-"
"What! are you still hesitating?"
" No. But such a happiness-so unexpected,
after what you told me yesterday! I desire an
instant to collect myself."
Very right, very right, Moses."
(" HeavensI What a position I am placed inI
I not only don't know myself, but would like ex-
tremely to find out from him something about
the'confounded business. If I tell him the exact
truth, he'll be sure not to believe me; and if I
do not, my hopes are to be turned to gloom and
despair. As I have nothing to communicate, I'll
refuse to divulge.")
" Well, have you decided ?" asked Mr. Wagbull
in a tender manner, leering at Moses.
"Yes, Mr. Wagbull, I have. It is to remain
worthy of your esteem that I have resolved to
remain silent. It is a severe conflict of feelings,
but I must-I must," replied Moses, feeling very
sincere.
" Heavens ! You refuse-you refuse the hand
of one whom you love I You contemn my benevo-
lence I"

MR. WINKFIELD.

149


150                              MR. WINKFIELD.
"Oh ! what do I hear ?" cried the young lady, undue confusion, philosophically kissed his confi-
just entering the room, and inking upon the sofa. dent aad admirer, which seemed to have a re-
"0 dear, what an unfortunate state of af- markable effect upon her discernment as well as
fairs I I am going," continued the old gentle- upon his own,
man, rushing from the room. "Confound his     "Oh! I know what it is. I know," said she,
attachment to principles ! If it was only for brightening under the inspiration; " it is to the
Conkey, it would be splendid."              newspapers that you are to take them-to the
"Hear me, Bessie," said Moses in pathetic ex- newspapers 1"
excitement, approaching the young lady. "When  "Eh? Are you sure?   The influence of news-
you understand-"                            papers is what public men are constantly thinking
"No, no, Moses, I can not endure my feelings. of."  ...
To think that you whom I have so-so-so-" "Certainly. The collector is a political man.
"-My dear Bessie!I (Devil take the collector, This is a political matter-some question of the
with his demoniac plots and anthracite intrigues! moment-and these notes are his views thereon-
What business has he to make me feel uncom- his 'views of the situation '-to be published i
fortable with them ?) Let me tell you, Bessie, the journals." -
your father simply refuses my suit for your hand  "But what journals? There are only two let-
because I will not tell him what the collector ters, and there are six important newspapers."
wants of me. That's all."                     " There are only two principal administration
"-What I have you, too, become infatuated with ones, and of course he would have his views pub-
these dreadful intrigues and political schemes lished in these.. Don't you remember he said they
which make papa so miserable ?"             were similar in substance ?  He undoubtedly
"Yes, yes, I have, unfortunately become ib- wishes to have them privately inserted as edito-
volved in some way in them; and to you I will be rials."
frank. Yes, I'll tell you that I really do not know  "By heaven ! you are right," exclaimed Mo-
why or wherefore."                          ses; "to be sure. That is the reason there was
" Would you say this to me, Moses-you who no address.  Of course, to the newspapers.
have heretofore been so frank,' so generous in Where were my thoughts?  There is'something
your intercourse with me ?"                in this secrecy after all which-is extremely fas-
"(Heavens! she, too, thinks I am trying to de- cinating, especially when you have a clue to
ceive her. Every body suspects me. 0, pshaw1 I master the difficulties; isn't there, Bessie ?  As
wish-I wish the collector had been afflicted with an amusing method of sharpening the faculties,
blindness before he had ever seen me. But poor it may be, on the whole-"
Lampson! I'll confide to her what I do know   The young lady looked at him alarmedly.
about it. I must have some one to assist me in  1"0 dear! Moses," said she pathetically,
finding out what to do with those perplexing " will you contract the habit, too, of attending
letters.) My dear Bessie, I have stated to you these caucuses and staying out till midnight 2"
that I really do not know what the mystery I am  "I promise you I will not," said Moses, arous-
involved in-is, and, indeed, I now wish you to as- ing from the temporary infatuation.
sist me in endeavoring to discover it. I do it  As our hero was returning to his hotel, after
however, with the strict injunction of keeping tle above conversation, he was much gratified by
secret whatever I am able to reveal to you, the meeting upon the street his old friend Mr. Bunter,
propriety of which you will boon plainly see."  who, after grasping his hand and warmly shaking
At this, Bessie, whose love and curiosity were it attempted to leave without a word. Moseg
satisfied at once, brightened up, and thereupon remained "him, and inquired with- great interest
Moses hurriedly proceeded to inform her of all concerning the state of his relations with Miss
the relations he ever had with the collector. Tomlins'and her family.
When he approached the finale of his recital, and  "Shortly after we were turned out, I went
produced the two sealed epistles without address West on business, as you knew by my letter,"
for her inspection, a fine scene of mystification said the martyr. 1I got back some time ago,
was enacted by the two for a moment. They but the old gentleman still forbids my presence"
looked at each other, and then at the letters, and on the same block even. I am reduced to clan-
then toward the ceiling for inspiration.    destine Meetings in the parks and the back-
" Now, have you not heard your father, indis- kitchen, and what with servants who have ceased
cussing political matters, drop something which to be reliable, Susie's fatigue, and my irritation,
may be a clue to this' mystery ?" suggested it is as much as humati nature can bear, when I
Moses.                                      know it is so easy to insinuate a pound or two of'
"Dear me! no. Whenever he commences to gunpowder into the coat-tail of that rascally hypo-
talk politics, grandmother and I order him per- crite, and remove the cause of all this trouble.,"
emptorily to stop, and he is forced to 'go. off  Can I do any thing? Shall I try again ,"
somewhere else to continue. I really do not re- asked Moses vehemently.
collect any thing," continued the yomg lady, re-  "I don't know. I think we had better let it
fleeting, with a disappointed air; "I only know simmer, Winkfield, In fact, I have got an idea,"
there are 3one preparations for an election taking replied Mr. Bunter, and a gleam of hope stole
place. I-"                                  over his face; "it is my opinion that the coats
"Yes, I know. That is it. It has something of Hunkeyfell's stomach are almost gone. No
to do with that. Let me see-O pshaw !" man can stand two bottles of brandy a day, es-
"It will not do to break the seals, will it 2" pecially when he drinks it all in secret, as this
"No, stno," said Moses emphatically and there- Moses expressed the hope that the difficulty
upon there was another expressive tableau, and would soon be solved, ifnot in this way, at least
then our hero, in order to clear his thought of in some other, and they again parted. -

MR. WINKFIELD.                   151

CHAPTER LXIX.
MOsEs TAEs rHEN OTEs TO TNE EWSPAPERS.
AFTER inquiring into the status of the news-
papers in question, to fortify his convictions that
their editors were "the right men" referred to
by the collector, and learning that they were both
devoted to the popular cause of the administra-
tion, but were exercising their usual professional
violence and antagonism on the minor point of
the municipal nomination, which had been tempo-
rarily exaggerated into a mountain of import-
ance, Moses cautiously sought, under the cover
of a late evening hour, the editorial smithery of
the organ of the Conkey faction, and confidently
handed one of the communications he had re-
ceived from the collector to the person whom he
supposed to be the chief Cyclops, and whom he
thus designated by the preeminent amount of
dirt and printing-ink upon his face and disorder
of his person. The agitation-of surprise, delight,
and triumph appeared upon the visage and in the
manner of the editor as he broke the seal of the
note and read its contents. As he finished, he
handed the document to another party present,
apparently his assistant Titan, with the exulting
exclamation:0
"Sniggery, we have triumphed V"
The assistant received the note, read it, re-
moved the green shade from his eyes in order
that he might grin more expressively, and then
began to scratch himself in-various parts of his
person, partly for the purpose of further express-
ing his defight and partly as a relaxation from
his labors.
"In sending directly to us, the collector in-
tnds that this important communication should
be published at once, eh ?" said the journalist to
Moses, subduing his ecstasy.
" Yes, yes, of course. It is undoubtedly to be
inferred from that mere fact," replied Moses,
scratching his head.
"Very well, we will put it in the first column
of the morning's issue," replied the editor, rub-
bing his hands; "assure him of that."
Fine composition, sir, said Moses, lingering;
finely worded."
" Yes. It is rather short; but there is matter
enough; and in the matter lies-its eloquence,"
said the editor elatedly.
" Perhaps in reading it aloud you will observe
its peculiarring," suggested Moses again, under
the influence of his curiosity.
'Yes," replied the editor, " read aloud or si-
i mtly, it will ring before to-morrow night over
the whole city, and wring the bosom of the poor
creature to whom, once honored and trusted as a
member of the great party which he now openly
abandons and conspires to overthrow, we feel
abundantly able most efficiently to teach a lesson
without resorting to defamation. We think we
have been long enough in the harness to know
that what we have to do is to discuss principles,
and not bespatter with malignant reproaches or
disparaging epithets. And in defending the in-
terests of human progress, of education, and of
temperance, we know we have not failed, in our
long and arduous career, to avoid the discourtesy,
the ribaldry, the supererogatory rudeness and
impertinence which the more decent of the readl-
ers of our unexceptionable (God save the mark !)
cotemporary have been obliged to lately swallow

in perusing the cooldeliberate, wicked, and
wanton lies of this despicable imbecile, this
wretched villain and poor, abject tool, who either
has been or will be bought cheap by the rum-
selling swindlers, guzzling sots, and locofoco fos-
sils who infest the grog-shops and fill the jails
of the community.  -
Here the experienced journalist paused in his
nervous eloquence, and examined his table for
the purpose of finding the vigorous slip which
he had been recently amusing himself by in-
diting, and from which he was quoting; but fail-
ing in his search, he gave up his intention of
proceeding, and generously asked Moses to take
a glass of water, that liquid being the only one
which was ever permitted, or permitted to re-
main, in the office. Moses would fain have
staid longer to gratify his curiosity; but as he
again saw symptoms of rising gall, which he felt
appeared -to be among politicians unpleasantly
strong, he resumed his caution and repressed any
further impulses of his curiosity until the mor-
row, when in all probability the nature of the
singular events in which lie had been engaged
would at last be disclosed to him. He therefore
declined the nectar which had been offered him,
and retired. From the office of the Conkey or-
gan he sought the fulminating garret of the
Tricker party. There he placed the remaining
communication in the hand of the chief person-
age present, whom he distinguished as such upon
the principle which. he had applied at the other
establishment, and who was a trifle dirtier than
the one thereat. The same succession of sur-
prise, delight, and triumph appeared in this gen-
tleman's countenance-at least on that part of it
which was not covered with dirt and ink. Moses
began to feel highly satisfied too.
" Yes, Bessie was right, thought he; "it is
evidently some compromise-some clever stroke
by the great politician for the restoration of har.
mony in the party. Both wings are satisfied."
As the collector has intrusted this to us di-
rectly, sir," said this editor, after his moment of
meditative rapture, "he has undoubtedly wished
that we should publish it."
"Yes-that is-certainly," replied Moses, besi-
tating, with some momentary misgiving at this
point, arising from the singular coincidence of
this question with the other editor's.
" It shall appear in the first column, in double
caps. Present my compliments and the common
gratitude of the party to the collector, and tell
him this. And by heaven! take sonic refresh-
ment, sir-take some refreshmer..  Biggs, bring
forth the glasses from the closet."
The sub-editor appealed to looked significantly
at his chief, and then whispered to him.
"I am sorry that we have nothing to offer
you," continued the chief to Moses, " but some
petroleum-wine, made from coal-oil-an advertis-
ing sample, which I am obliged to pronounce
dangerous, as I have tried it."
"Oh! never mind. By the way," said Moses,
"you will, of course read over the communica-
tion and see that the punctuation is correct, or
perhaps I now might do so. Allow me."
" Oh! no; of course, we will attend to that.
Yes, sir ; the points will be properly put in, sir.
The chief point is already there, sir. It is that,
sir, which puts a period-a full stop, sir-to the
insane malignancy andn futile arrogance of our


152                      MR. WINKFIELD.

benevolent-ha, ha !-cotemporary.  It is that w
which belies his predictions, baffles his expecta- g
tions, squelches his invocations, deranges his cal-
culations, and inhabilitates his nominations. (The t
frenzy is coming on me. Stand by, Biggs, and m
take down in short-hand what I have to say. If s
there is any thing which can't be substantiated, I
can lay the article on you.) No longer, incensed i
to madnes, full of sound and fury, and with
equal bitterness and disregard of truth, will he
dare to assail his betters; nor longer pile accusa-
tion upon accusation of the true conservators of c
the party with that energy which he fain would s
hide in what we must paradoxically mark as ad
prurient modesty and arrogant humility, ands
which only his secret and private malice may
explain. Outstripping all fibbers in indifference
to the truth of facts, let him eclipse Munchausenv
in the extravagance of his conceptions; but thec
disgraceful spectacle which he has presented to t
decent'people as the great philanthropist, whoseI
only philanthropy lies in the futility of his ma-
levolence, the scoundrelly, malignant, doting, I
raving-"I
"Yes, I will," interrupted Moses, recovering
himself ; " I had better go immediately, certainly.I
And good evening-good evening, sir."
With these words Moses fled from the office,t
and, proceeding to his couch, calmly awaited the
morrow's developments.
Who shall picture the astonishment, confusion,
and dismay of both the above editors-of all theI
persons, high and low, attached to their respect-
ive establishments-of all the admirers of each,
of Conkey and Tricker themselves, of the entire
Conkey and entire Tricker faction-nay, the in.
tense excitement, risible and otherwise, of the
whole city, upon reading in the next morning's
issue of each of these papers, the following ef-
forts in the polite epistolary line from that high
and mighty political potentate, the collector.
In the first column of the Conkey organ:
"The Collector presents his compliments to
the faithful adherent of the true Republican
cause in the coming municipal contest in this
city. You are hereby authorized to assure the
friends of your candidate for the important office
of the mayoralty of the city attached to the chief
port of entry of the nation that it is the intention
of the Collector to wannly and earnestly support
that candidate in the coming contest."
(Signed.)
In the Tricker organ:
"The Collector congratulates the firm and un-
wavering agent of the true interests of Republic-
anism. He takes pleasure in assuring him that
the candidate whose cause he is asserting, and
who must undoubtedly be regarded as the ex-
ponent of patriotic principles, Republican mea-
sures, and municipal prosperity, may rely upon
the entire moral and active influence of the Cot-
lector in the approaching convention."
(Signed.)
We will not attempt to portray the feelings ok
the various parties before mentioned upon com-
paring these two notes; but itis our duty to
chronicle the feelings of the worthy author him-
self thereon,- as far as they were connected with
our hero.
He sent for Moses about the time the Intter

ras agitatedly scratching his head in a gradually
rowing illumination upon the matter.
"Well, sir, what have you to say respecting
his extraordinary publication ?" said he to Moses.
with impressive sternness; "what have you to
ay, sir?"
" I-I took them myself to the editors," the
ntimidated and penitent Moses began to confess,
'and I supposed-"
" It was, then, a feat originated and performed
olely by you, sir ?" continued the collector in
oncentrated excitement. "This presumption is
omething new-it is something new in a subor-
dinate, sir. Instead of giving these notes to the
ecretary's agent in each wing, to secretly and
quietly fortify the position and calm the impa-
tience of each, until I could decide which one
was the strongest and best to capture, you con-
cluded that it could be more easily done through
the diffusive facilities of the public press, eh?
You thought you would kindly relieve us at the
very outset of the necessity of going on at all-
by heaven !-and dispense with all delay and go.
betweens, by putting these notes in the hands of
the public organs, and irrevocably commit me in
favor of bot asides, without leaving me the slight-
est chance of denying to the party at large and
to the world this fine piece of stultification with
which I have astonished them."
Moses was about to make a clean breast of it,
to make a sincere and heartfelt apology for his
past unwarrantable acts, and to get out of the
collector's office as best he could, when he was
greatly surprised to see that official suddenly rub
his hands, and to hear him make the following
'remarks:
" But I forgive you, sir; I forgive the presump-
tion in my admiration of the brilliancy of the
move."7   .
" Eh ?" responded Moses in confusion; "I-
I-"
" Excellent, excellent. Undoubtedly the best
thing that could have been done," continued the
collector in apparent ecstasy; "I never should
have thought of extricating myself from  the
troublesome affair in such a manner-never. A
masterly effort-a masterly piece of satire and
diplomacy combined, sir. Ha ! ha ! How the
secretary will laugh when it reaches Washington.
But shake hands-shake hands, sir. It is un-
equaled."
And hereupon the undoubtedly overjoyed poli-
tician shook the hand of the astonished amateur
in political science most fervently.
" It will add considerably to my reputation,
sir-considerably," continued the politician, grow-
ing in rapture; "shake hands again, sir! Why,
how did you come to think of it? Let me see:
by promising myself in favor of both, I of
course mean that I do not take either side. To
be sure, I have to take up that imbecile Noblock;
but he is as good as any other blockhead to
throw away the President's patronage upon. Yes,
both the Conkeyites and the Tricker party will
be delighted at finding the other has not got it.
Glorious! They would rather have that than
their own success. They will see it is a measure
which my duty to the party dictated to me for its
restoration to harmony ; and if they should not
happen to like it, I can lay it to the President, ha !
ha ! They will love and fear me, sir. Yes, sir.
And the secretary will be gratified beyond meca-

sure at my management. Shake hands, shake
hands! To you I owe all."
And again the pleased official expressed the
ardor of his satisfaction in that primitive act of
friendship for at least two minutes. .
" I am undoubtedly a man of genius," thought
the exalted Moses; " it is settled that I am a po-
litical genius."
" A desk is vacant in the inspection bureau.
It is at your disposal," said the collector abrupt-
ly, in the midst ol his delight; " but really, with
such talents, you do not contemplate tying your-
self to a clerkship, do you ?"
" Oh I no, sir. A friend of mine, a worthy
man and gentleman of education, sir-Mr. Joseph
Lampson," replied Moses hastily, "has asked me
to---"
" Very well; say no more. I appoint Mr. Jo-
seph Lampson a deputy inspector. And here-
here is a note from me to him," replied the col-
lector, at once rapidly inditing the appointment;
"let him be at the Custom House to-morrow
morning to be sworn in."
" Yes, sir-yes, sir," replied the overjoyed Mo-
ses ; " I will carry it to him at once. 1 would
like to go immediately."
" Very well, very well," continued the col-
lector; "and I shall see you again soon, of
course ?  Glorious, glorious!  A, great relief!1
Shake hands before you go."
Moses rushed at once with the appointment to
his friend the scholar, and tholight of nothing
else until he had placed it in his hands.
It was as the collector predicted. The next
morning two columns of editorial matter appear-
ed in each of the rival organs, composed of ter-
rific vituperation and slang abuse of each other,
intermingled with taunts at the failure of each
and congratulations to the party in general that
the vile Conkey and the treacherous Tricker and
their creatures had been read this severe lesson
by that pure patriot and proud intellect, the collec-
tor, for their infamous attempts at distracting thie
party by their efforts at personal aggrandizement.
As for the Hon. Luke Noblock, words can not
express the sentiments of gratitude and friend-
ship which he presently felt he had cause to en-
tertain for our hero. He was triumphantly nomi-
nated in the ensuing convention, and of course,
from the state of parties at that period, ultiinate-
ly elected. Learning from the collector himself
Moses's valuable services in his interests, he took
occasion one morning when Moses was with Mr.
Wagbull at the Evercroft House to publicly
thank him for his disinterested friendship shown
in the matter. Mr. Wagbull, who, as a deter-
mined Conkeyite, had been satisfied with the
overthrow of the Tricker party, heard with feel-
ings of gratification, respect, and awe the honor-
able gentleman allude to Moses's efforts as the
chief means by which his nomination was se-
cured. In particular did the familiaAty of our
hero with those great men, the editors, and lia
visits to those sacred places, their sanctums, im-
press the worthy old merchant with his political
importance.
" Why, he goes about their offices just as if he
was walking in the street or in a hotel parlor,"
whispered he to Mr. Barnard, who was standing
near, and whom he momentarily interrupted in the
pleasing occupation of contorting his visage at
the worthy wearer of the municipal laurels,.

-" Yes," replied the lively gentleman, "he
doesn't mind the dirt there any more than in
the other places."
Whether Moses visited the collector again very
soon, or whether he finally disclosed, or \"as corn-
pelled to disclose, by the arrival of the true
agent from Washington, the real position which
he had occupied in the matter, or what measures the
collector took with him, if so, to keep it a secret,
it is, perhaps, immaterial to state. It is sufficient
for us to know that Mr. Lampson continued to-
hold his pleasant place in the Custom House,
and that Moses, by the judicious advice of Bessie,
kept quiet himself, and continued to enjoy the
honors of an immense reputation among those in
political circles who knew him, and particularly
in the estimation of her father,
CHAPTER LXX.
NUPTIALS IN sUMMER LANE.
A FEW days after the publication of the banns
between Mrs. Difficult and her lover Moses re-
ceived in his rooms a friendly deputation of col-
ored gentlemen, members of the Shiloh church,
who had kindly consented, in acerdance with
the wishes of the couple, to take this niethod of
removing the antipathy of  rn   io the r
preaching union. From these gentlemen Mloses
learned that his domestic had been latterly man-
ifesting his repugnance to the proposed measure
in an extremely violent and disagreeable manner
at his parent's house. His conduct had become
refractory and obstinate to the last degree, and
to show that his downright objection to the
match was irrevocable, lie had even gone so far
as to challenge the exercised Lommydew, and
upon the refusal of satisfaction by the latter, to
brandish a dinner-knife at the table before him,
to squeeze him in doorways, to utter indefinite
threats against the continuance of his existence
and to take other similar measures, which had at
last rendered the visits of the groom to his fu-
ture lady not only disagreeable, but even dan-
gerous. While Moses heartily sympathized with
the honest motives of Brunswick, he disapprov-
ed of this violent method of obeying them, and
promptly informed the committee, who took oc-
casion to politely express their regard both for
him and their friend Brunswick, that he would
at once enjoin the latter to moderate his conduct
to a reasonable degree. In accordance with this
promise, he endeavored by a long disquisition
upon the nature of human beings in general, and
by a thorough analysis of the matter in hand, to
point out to Brunswick that further resistance
was useless. He stated that he had long fore-
seen this determination of the suit, or else he
would have more actively assisted him in at-
tempting to thwart its progress. He had exam-
ined the statutes, according to Brunswick's de-
sire, for the purpose of discovering the legal
prohibition of the marriage of widows whose
former husband's remains had not been found.
But there appeared to be no such ordinance
among them, and in fact, none of any other
kind which seemed applicable to the case. Bruns-
wick, who had placed much reliance upon the
possible interference of the authorities,.listenied
with dejected conviction to the definite accents

MR. WINKFIE, LD.                    153

'1


. MR. WINKFIELD.-155

154                         MR. WINKFIELD.

of our hero, aid resignedly promised to obeyY
his injunctions and abstain from further violent
opposition to the marriage. - It was thus permit-
ted to tranquilly approach its consummation.c
A temporary postponement of the day had been t
made in cons, quence of the sudden demise ofr
Mr. Lommeydew's grandsire, who died revert-C
ing to Mumbo Jumbo, undoubtedly from   the
rheumatic effects of his religious ordeal at the
church. But jas soon as the delicate feelings oft
the young man were strengthened, the day was (
again fixed, and happiness and excitement dur-I
ing the ensuing preparations therefor reigned in
the home of the fair bride. The- assistance and,
advice of several of her lady friends were ofI
course in constant requisition. There was muchI
running to and fro between her mansion and an
eminent thread and needle store in the-neighbor-I
hood, and small dry-goods boys were constantly
arriving at her front-door, while by such neigh-I
bors as were inquisitive enough to gratify their
curiosity in furtively peering through the blinds
of her back-parlor window, an interesting con-
clave of colored ladies might be seen working in
silent earnestness, or vehemently discussing mat-
ters of acknowledged importance to the sex un-
der such circumstances, appertaining to the ap-
propriate positions of the principals at the cere-
mony, to the number of bridesmaids, to the al-
ternative of solemnizing the event in a church,
or of more quietly pqrforming it in a front-par-
lor, to that of whether the bride should faint
before or after the critical moment, etc. These
and many other points suggested by the profound
sense of etiqut-tte inherent in the female bosom
were being settled by these friends, who had,
constituted themselves, in parliamentary lan-
guage, an executive committee, with arbitrary
power to send for gin, oysters, sweetmeats, etc.
Now and then Mr. Lomineydew attending
these gatherings was archly made to spend an
hour in reading to them during their work, from
the Atlantic  monthly, the Ledger, or other or-
gans of the intellectual fashions of the day,
while they listened with languishing looks of sub-
dued emotion after the most delicate style of
their young lady mistresses.
"That is a beautifully poem, Mr. Lommey-
dew," one would say. "Fr6m whom ?".
" Ah! a little thing originally written and pub-
lished in Europe, by a blind man named Milton,
and now republished by the chief poetess of the
Monthly."
"It is so mystery and elegance. Sweet I"
"Yes, and she very cleverly obtains that ef-
fect by leaving out every second line of the orig-
inal and a decided improvement in the rimth,
too I"
" In what?  What de rimph?" inquires an
honest Jersey matron, staring at the student, who
immediately talks her into a state of silent admi-
ration at his poetic acquirements.
" But Mendelssohn 1- I likes Mendelssohn bet-
ter. Oh ! how sleepy he is i" says another.,
"Why, that's music, you fool!" replied the
first., "That's lasick's music. It's the name
of some of Classick's pieces.  We an't talkin'
about music, Jenny. Why, what are you think-
in' about i?"
"I know. But my mistis says he is the most
sleepy, aiid I like him !"
"Dreamy, you mean. Sleepy I You're tooe

young, Jenny, to come out already. Entirely too
young -"
"1 don't care, my mistis knows as much about
dese tings as yourn," replies the other, and with
this very true assertion, the reading of other
pieces is resumed and the work of delight is ar-
dently prosecuted.
With a delicate regard for Brunswick's feel-
ngs Moses's name was inserted in the list of
those of the bride's friends, and a wedding-
card of mammoth proportion Was duly received
by him, which he pleasantly acknowledged by
enabling Brunswick to buy, in his own name,
for his step-mother ten bundles of shingles,
to repair her dwelling, that being considered
by the worthy son as the best present which
could be made -her. The destined day at
last arrived, and whatever secret efforts the
reluctant Brunswick wis making in opposition
to the event seemed likely to fail. The bride
was dressed in full splendor at twelve O'clock,
and in the usual words of the female friends, '
"never looked lovelier than at that moment,"
the idea of full dress being thoroughly carried
out in the wedding attire, though in some re-
spects it might have been regarded by the crit-
ical observer as the opposite of full. However,
it made up in the skirt what it lacked in the
bust, and as both were strictly en regle, it may
be said she outstripped all the others present,
metaphorically as well as literally. At two o'clock
a large and fashionable assemblage, comprising
some of the principal lady's maids, cooks, coach-
men, and valets of the metropolis had gathered
in and about the premises to assist at the cere-
onies, it being deemed advisable that they-
should take place thereat, to obviate any acci-
dent which might occur to the guests were they
compelled to rush along the public highways
from the ceremony at the church to the dinner
at the house.
It now appeared that a few preliminary mat-
ters, usually passed over, had to be settled in a
minute manner in this case, ere the clergyman
was willing to proceed. These were the requi-
sites of the statutes made.and provided for such
cases. The working of the poison which had
been instilled into the pastor's mind for the past
few days by Brunswick was perhaps disclosed in
this sudden strictness, though the worthy cler-
gyman had been a great stickler for particulars
ever since he had been unfortunately arrested
and threatened with incarceration in the peni-
tentiary for a term of years as an accomplice of
a severe case of bigamy in his flock. He pro-
cbeded amid the hush of the guests to inquire
the respective ages of the two parties about to
be engaged in the solemn act. To this question
there at once succeeded some confusion. Nei-
ther knew how old they were, and the bride, who
felt herself called upon to fully maintain the sen-
sibility of her sex, declared with great feeling
amid the applause of her feniale friends, that
she would not tell if she could.
"De ceremony can't go on!" exclaimed the
clergyman briefly but decisively, and what with
his own natural obstinacy and the ardent support
he derived from Brunswick, the old gentleman's
position might have conclusively stopped the
proceedings had not several of the guests inter-
fered. -By threatening to expel him from the
pastorate if he would. not, and by promising to

procure him bronchial leave of &amp;bsence there-
from if be would, he was finally persuaded to
make a compromising survey and general aver-
age and proceed to the next point, which was
the principal one he was desirous of settling.'
Upon the point of the one or both of them being
at that time possibly contemplating polygamy,
he flatly stated that he would not be content with
the mere testimony of the parties themselves.
"I an't gwine to get into de penitentiary for
six years!i Tucker was a good member of Shi-
loh, and I tought it all right! De ceremony
can't go on!I"
Beunswick gave , an audible expression of sat-
isfaction at this, and his hopes rose high that
there would be a postponement at least of the
matter. But there happened to be in the assem-
blage a young colored gentlemen, one of the sec-
onds of the bridegroom, who occupied the most of
his professional time in sweeping the floors and
dusting the yellow calf of a legal firm of the city.
This person promptly stepped forward, and fixing
his gaze in adroit superciliousness upon the stick-
ler for the statutes, stated that all which was re-
quired to settle the case was hearsay.
"In de case of Johnson vs. Bugg," said this
young man, making a superhuman effort to re-
member the forms so often used by his masters
in the law office. "In de case of Johnson, 17th
McCunn, it was held as elusivee by-by de alder-
man after a long argument and able hearing, that
as Missis Johnson's female friends had never
found it out she didn't have eight husbands, and
in Thomas vs. Thomas, see de Police Reports,
470, it was 'termined dat as Thomas was 'cus-
tomed to boast in de pothouses dat he had free
other wives, it was sufficient grounds for grant-
ing a divorce to the one who was then 'putedly
supportin' of himI"
"Wall I do' know but dat satisfies me. I tink
it does. I must be satisfied on de law, dat is all.
De ceremony can-hold, dere is one more pint,"
continued the prudent divine. ,"I must proceed
rationally. De lady in dis case'has been married
afore ! What I wish to ask de bridegroom is,
if he has felt coercion in dis matter ?"
"Only once or twice, sir. It was highly na-
chul I" replied the happy man.
0 pshaw! I ask you, do you lub do Missis?"
asked the minister in some irritation.
"Pastor, I am willing, sir, to take -my oath
on the holy writ !" replied the divinity-student.
This was considered quite satisfactory, and
with it the last hope of the discontented Bruns-
wick vanished.
The awful knot was now tied amidst a terrible
silence, wherewith several pins in the assemblage
sympathetically dropped.  This was immediate-
ly followed by the tearful kissing of the bride.
and the jocose congratulation of the happy
groom, during which the former tore herself
away to visit the banquet-room in her matron-
ly desire that the festivities of the occasion
should be successful in all the appointments,(
and that none of the guests should unduly fore-I
stall the others in partaking of the enjoyments(
thereof; her mind, in fact, having been much
distracted through the entire ceremony by the fact
of two small children, acting under the instincts
of extreme'youth, having taken advantage of the
settlement of the preliminaries, and abstracted one
of the mosct important pies and eight doughnuts

from the nuptial board. The signing of the mar-
riage certificate by the clergyman, which now took
place, was an act of great solemnity, although the
difficulties arising f om his limited experience
in chirography were discernible in the spasmod-
ic sympathy of his legs, eyes and tongue with his
writing, the first being'thrust convuively back
of his chair, the second starting from his head,
and the latter protruded from his mouth and
following the slow and arduous motions of his
hand.
At a given signal, a rush was made for the
table, which was pronounced by one of the gen-
tlemen present As "truly poetical." Extremely
diverting were the trencher feats performed
thereat, varying according to the constitutional
ability or habits of the numerous guests. To
speak generally, it would have been, perhaps, dan-
gerous to have attempted to divert the attention of
any from the intensely absorbing occupation,. un-
til nature had been, at least, partially satisfied.
The legal young gentleman and groomsman, who
devoted himself to the oysters, seemed, also to
delight in drinking vinegar in large quantities at
a time, without winking, while a large colored
gentleman opposite to him distinguished himself
by the wonderful height to which he adroitly
projected into the air, in parabolic curves, the food
which ultimately reached his capacious mouth.
The impressive ceremony, invented by another
groomsman, in which the healths of the bride
and her groom were drunken, is, perhaps, impos-
sible to describe. A throb of enthusiasm, passed
in each breast, as with arms intertwined, a lady
and gentleman alternating, around the table, the
entire company in solemn silence raised their
glasses to their lips, and at a concerted moment,
transferred the contents thereof to their interior.
All of Brunswick's hope being completely dissi-
pated when the magnanimous groom accosted
him in an affecting, parental manner as "his
son," he rationally proceeded to enjoy the occa-
sion as much as possible, by eating, drinking
kissing the bridesmaids, and assisting the gratifi-
cati6n of the natural appetites of his powerless
friend and consoler, the revered pastor. To such
a degree was the clergyman's festive ardor in-
creased by the step-son's efforts, that it exhibited
itself before he finished, in a paralytic break-
down in one corner of the room, and a spirited
defiance to one or two gentlemen, who seemed
inclined to look upon the performance as rather
eccentric, and attempted to stop him therein.
A ball in the evening consummated the event,
when "the masculine youth, with irresistibly
lovely women, comprising our most gifted jeunesse
dorie, (we quote from a subsequent account in
the Colored Statesman's Social Companion and
Raw Oysterer,) were treading buoyantly the
measures of foreign and domestic dances, the jig,
saraband, and bolero, to the melody of softest
strains, and where hovered over all a poesy of
color, light, shade, odor, mirth, congeniality, and
delight, as would have tempted an anchorite from
hi5 cell and led a daughter of the mystic Church
of Rome to forget her vows. It was a splendid
renaissance-pot pourri of the ancestral lace,
satin, and brocade, in which the eminent second-
ary-manipulating establishment of Buxbumn &amp;
Brothers of the Seventh avenue--for whom and
whose colored partner we speak a good word,
and palliate his forswearing the Christian faith,


MR. WINKFIELD.                 ML

and assuming the Israclitish career, as a mere powerful smell of apple-jack prevailing about his
business form-showed their renovating genius. person. Like several other celebrated characters
Animated and graceful, it surged hither and in history, he was indulging in a pathetic apos.
thither, giving voice and gesture to a syllabic re- trophy to fate, for it was the only thing left for
frain that bewildered and allured. At once a him to do in the matter. 'His soliloquy was
marvel of loveliness and refinement,.to which the mostly similar to that of the illustrious Wolsey,-
eye, once caught, could but surrender without dis- as chronicled by Shakespeare, excepting that the
cretion. Within a circle, not magic, but gayly sentiments were reversed. The wretched cardinal
alive with sprites and handsome men, hedged felt that if he had served his God and his country
about with beauteous women and happy attend- half as well as he had his king, he would, no doubt,,
ants, moved easily in and out the motion of the have been allowed to proceed and enjoy the office
genial pastime. It would be invidious to criticise of assistant-bluebeard, just as formerly. But the
the toilet of the ladies. Suffice it to pass over unhappy judge laid his misfortunes to serving
the more exquisite ilustratio, s of taste in referring the cause of justice and truth with more zeal
to the general splendor, setting down naught in than he did his party.
malice, and nothing exterminating."        "Women again !"murmured he somewhat thick-
The ball was continued until the small hours ly. " What did they make Justice a goddess for ?
of the night, and the next morning a majority of If she'd been a man, a manly man, she'd never
the respectable families who kept colored servants permitted me to be thus bullyragged out of my
in the city were astonished at discovering their rights I"I
domestics lying in a state of insensibility at the  "What is the matter, judge ?" asked our hero,
area-gates, or under the front-stoops; a state of as the ex-statesman finally recognized them,
affairs which also caused much pleasing excite- "You are not unwell, I hope ?"
meant among the doctors of the city, who were   "I am, Mr. Winkfield. I am, sir. I can not,.
led to believe that a new epidemic, as yet singu- as a true patriot, sir, sit here, and from this rocky
larly confined to the colored population, had eminence view that noble structure," replied the.
made its appearance - in the community. Mr. judge, pointing to the City Hall, "see that noble
Winkfield had his share, too, of the morning as- building, which should be devoted to the interests
tonishment, being called upon to bail his domestic of humanity and the democracy prostituted by
from the police-station, who had in conclusion minions and hirelings 'of traitors.  Mr. Wink.
endeavored to obtain that relief for his feelings, field, I committed a great mistake, sir, on the
which he had failed to secure in a more legitimate tribunal. I was too foolishly attentive to my
way, by thrashing the three assistant grooms, on official duties in the court-room. If I had paid
their way home from the festivities.        more attention to the party and less to the bench,
I, should have been all right, and I am sorry
I didn't !"
"4Have you retired entirely, judge, from the
CHAPTER    LXXL                 political arena ?" asked Moses delicately, after a
moment's pause.
CATO IN EXILE.                  "For the present, for the present, sir. Over-
Taim late municipal election which resulted so powered by the malignant creatures and hirelings,
favorably for one of Moses's friends, Mr. Noblock, who have grabbed the sway of the party, I have
was as unfavorable to another, the ex-judge Poo- temporarily sought refuge from their execrable
toops. To say that his bold attempt at the dan- persecution in the shelter of personal retirement,
gerous process of bolting from the regular organ- sir. But to watch them, sir. To watch them
ization of his party and setting up one of his own, and to crush them," continued he, rising in his
was an ignominious failure, would not be thor- excitement and swaying to and fro; "with my
oughly expressive, without the additional epithet full weight, sir 1"
of " dreadful."  He had either miscalculated his  "Good!1 Fall on 'em, old heavy-boy V" cried
personal strength among the ranks, or else his Mr. Barnard, patting the judge upon the back in
admirers at the fatal hour had lost the nerve to warm but undignified sympathy.
sustain him, and in turn bolted from him. His  "Young man, you will respect the rules of the
name was not heard in the nominating conven- court. Let there be no epithets. -No epithets V"
tion, and, consequently, was not at the election, said the judge. " And no familiarity with the
with the exception of being mentioned among- back of the court.' .
the scattering at the latter, as the recipient of  "I meant no offense, judge, and I must say
seven votes, which were the result of his own and you will be an ugly boy fbr some of 'em, yet !"
of his faithful constable's desperate efforts to sus- replied Mr. Barnard in encouragement.
tain his cause, and of five of his more recent  " Your sentiments are correct, sir. You un-
creditors to sustain theirr.-               derstand the nature of the late struggle'
While walking in the Park with Mr. Barnard,  " Understand itI Intimately ; and it is my
a few days after the nominations, Moses discov- opinion the row would never have occurred, if
ered the fallen chief, who had thus so hopelessly the parties on both sides had not been so beastly
ostracized himself by his own rash act from all drunk !" .
further share in politics, seated upon a bench, and  "On both sides! Do you mean to say I was
apparently contemplating the stock of an adja- drunk too, sir ?" asked the judge exercised again.
cent apple-woman, but in reality meditating upon  "Of course not. You exhibit sense in drinking,
the ruins of the Pootoopian structure. That he as in every thing else, eh, judge?  Ha i ha i
had not yet fully recovered from the crushing catch an old and experienced weasel somnolent,
sense of hiis disaster was evident from the fact eh ?" continued the lively Mr. Barnard, again for-
that he was scarcely conscious of the approach getfully slapping Judge Cato upon the back, and
of Moses and Mr. Barnard, and also from the so heartily as to materially disturb' the balance

of his person and to cause him to swallow rather
irregularly the continuance of his indignant de-
niaL  "I beg pardon, judge, a mere inadvertence,
and Moses, suppose we all step into Windust's
and sit down there over a glass of ale?  What
say you, judge ?" continued he, in amiable concil-
iation.,
"You have mentioned   refreshments, young
man," replied the judge sternly.
"I have, and I say Windust's is the place."
"I have already waived the consideration of
your familiarity With my person, sir. As a friend
of Mr. Winkfield, I consent to join you," contin-
ued the judge, rising majestically, and taking Mo-
sea's arm -at once. "It is a poor and wretched
substitute for an apology, but I accept it."
"He is somewhat vivacious, judge," said Moses
as they followed Barnard, "and a little vehement
in the manifestation of his friendship, but--"
"Ie undoubtedly tried to knock me ofT the
bench, sir."
" But you will pass over his eccentricity ?"
"I have, and as your friend, I humor his
propositions, sir."
" How did -the torch-light procession of the
Club result, judge ?" asked Moses, as the three
sat down together in the refreshment-room.
.. " It was small, but brilliant, and would have
been a success, sir-a success; but my constable
accidentally sent a rocket into a third-story win-
dow, which knocked over and set fire to a woman
who was there. The procession was attacked and
dispersed by the male relatives of the female,
sir, and we couldn't get together again. Women
again  said the judge, with severest irritation,
in his melancholy," devil take'em all!" Affected
by the remembrance, he drained his glass, and'
proceeded with various incoherent observations'
upon the deplorable state of his party, of muni-
cipal affairs, of the nation, and of mankind gen-
erally, and predictions of all sorts of calamities
which were inevitable to all four, to which Moses
feigned to listen with deep earne tneda, while Mr.
Barnard appeared to be wholly taken up with de-
lighted admiration of the ex-functionary's won-
derful powers of section. He was in absolute
ecstasy as the latter paused in his interesting re-
cital, overcome by his feelings, and abstractedly
drank from Moses's glass, which. had remained
untouched upon the table.
As Mr. Barnard ordered fresh glasses, and as
the judge's conversation began to be interspersed
with ferocious threats, and gave other signs of
decided spirituous aberration, Moses concluded
to rise and mention an engagement to be fulfilled
by him up-town.
"Some trouble with a young lady, his intend-
ed, you know, and he is trying to patch it up,"
whispered Barnard to the disappointed judge, as
our hero determined to leave.
There never was a truer saying than if there
is any difficulty about, you'll find a woman in it "
exclaimed the judge, bringing his fist down em-
phatically upon the table. "Think of that noble
young man being a victim of 'em  Sing'ler I
Somehow, the best fellers fall a prey to 'em."
"Never mind, excuse him ; but you stay and
dine with me here, judge. We'll have one of
Joseph's chops and a bottle of sherry," continued
Mr. Barnard, who had become completely fasci,
nated with the society of the fallen statesman.
" You are a ImnoWing feller and 'telligent

citizen. I will dine with you on your own ac-
count and as rep'sent'ive of noble fren' and glo-
rious fuller, Winkfield."
It was hardly, however, as Moses's representa-
tive that Mr. Barnard, later in the evening, en-
deavored to lead the judge to the City Hall, for
the purpose of attacking the building, with mis-
siles, and of taking forcible possession of the
Comptroller's office; nor as such when, by re-
peated examples, he subsequently induced him
to imitate the cries of various animals in the
streets and lanes of the city. His careful escort
of the judge to his lodgings was more in accord-
ance with Moses's ideas of benevolence, and per-
haps also were his vehement efforts to shove the
ex-statesman through the back-kitchen window
for the purpose of avoiding any unpleasant en-
counter with the landlady, though he made a lit-
tle too much unnecessary noise in the attempt.
"1 thought you'd put your foot in it, coming
in this way," said the judge, as the enraged fe-
male appeared in the kitchen in her night ap-
parel, armed with a broom and accompanied by a
stout maid; "we'd better gone straighter front'
door and rung."
" What do you mean by coming home in
spirits at midnight, and breaking into my house
through the basement-window, like a villain and
night prowelcr ? What do you mean ?" shrieked
the lady, to relieve herself of the excitement of
her fright.
" Never mind, madam," interposed Mr. Bar-
nard ; "every man has a right to break into any
house which he owns or has properly paid the
rent of."
" But he hasn't paid the rent. Ie owes me
for fifteen months out of two years and more he's
been in this here house, a part of the time eating
my string-beans, lamb, and green peas, and a
bottle of horse-radish every time, which he is
very fond of, and free use of my best wash-tub
for bathing himself, the dissolute !"
"There is no use arguing with her, she's got
agoin'," said the semi-sobered judge in a low
voice to his defender. "Berrer go I"
" Drunk, and breaking in the back-winder, like
g low attempt of a cunning night proweler I"
"Theexactest traits of body or of mind
We owe to models ef an humble lhind,"
murmured Mr. Barnard,
it;eueensBerry to trip there's no--"
"You, boon companion, leave my kitchen,
with your 6issoluteness, you nasty, immoral de-
bochy, or I'll make you with this," continued the
excited female, shaking her broom at the tickled
Barnard.
" My dear madam," replied he, " these are cer-
tainly very sweeping remarks of yours?.
"You think you'll continue your orgey here?
Go off I"
" As you go on so, I shall be compelled to, my
good woman; and excuse me if I have kept you
remaining here to converse, but really there is
fascination about your appearance and conversa-
tion which it was impossible to resist."
"She's a flirt," interrupted the judge in thick
accents; " a dre'ful flirt I"
" What do you mean by that, you fool" asked
the outraged female,
" Never nad, I understand your engaging

157

156

'MR. WINKFIELD.


MR. WINKFIELD.                       159

158                           MR. WINKFIILD.

arts and your snares," replied the deposed fune- n
tionary sternly, waving his hand. "You can't a
surround me.'Seek your couch. You are a wom-m
an. The proper place for you is in bed, mar'am." h
" You sheftless, drunken dog, the proper place a
for you is under the pump," retorted the landlady
spiritedly.                          4,     l
" Ha, haI Shif'less! I perceive, mar'am, you 1
are not entirely so," continued the judge, at-r
tempting to assume a facetious gravity; "I per-c
ceive you are not entirely so."
The exhausted female made a blow at him   i
with her broom-stick, and another at Mr. Bar- I
nard, who at once prudently withdrew from the I
window through which he had been conversing,r
and shortly from  the premises, the last sights
which he obtained of the scene being that of the I
judge slinking up the staircase to the regions of
sleep, in heavy agitation, closely followed and oc-
casionally propelled by the vehement dame, while t
the yawning maid of Teutonia, who had been
awakened by the final noise from her five minutes'(
standing nap, drowsily followed with the candle.
CHAPTER    LXXII.t
TUE CONCLUSION.              -
Ta sensitive grandmother of Miss Wagbull,
had no doubt seen during her long earthly ex-I
perience many-events ocdurring over which she
had no control, and it is probable that her in-
telligence at last overcame her feelings of anti-
pathy to the entertainment by her granddaughter(
of any idea of marriage, and led her to acquiesce(
in a matter which she could not countervail. She
at once transferred those feelings to the delin-I
quencies of the Irish boy, and made the late ob-I
ject of her opposition her confident in the mat-
ter, seizing constant opportunities of revealing
to him the shortcomings which she had sudden-
ly observed in the unhappy page's conduct, and
asking for advice upon his supposed refractori-
ness. Moses defended the youth as well as hisI
benevolence could prompt him, but for a few
days that worthy domestic's existence appeared
to be under a cloud.
The conduct of Mr. Wagbull had now become
very mysterious. He Yppeared to be engrossed
with a matter of great importance, which it was
in vain for his friends to discover, excepting Mr.
Titman, for whom his friendship seemed sud-
denly to have become intense and confidential to
an unaccountable degree. The tw5 were seen
together from morn till eve, rushing in and out
of the mansion at unexpected hours, engaging in
low, earnest consultation, or poring over books
and writings therein, and then disappearing to
some unknown quarter with the same haste they
had displayed in their advent. Mr. Titman man-
ifested a dignified reserve in answer to the in-
quiry of his friends on the singularity of these
proceedings, alluding but abstractedly to his en-
grossment in difficult problems connected with
the science to 'which he was devoted, and softtes,,
stringers, intrados, arches, and Knoblesdorff
seemed mixed in inextricable confusion in his
thoughts. TIhe day before that fixed for Miss
Wagbull's union with Moses a solution to the
mystery was promulgated in the form of a gor-
geously engraved invitation, issued to the nu,

I

merous friends of both, requesting their assist-
nce at a dinner in a small but elegant house,
which the worthy parent had bought up town, and
ad been altering and repairing with studied care
and secrecy to zuit the peculiar tastes of his
daughter and her husband. Without the know-
edge of either, all the necessary arrangements,
had been completed therein, even to the employ-
ment of a distinguished cook, who had been pro-
cured for the establishment by Dehnonico,, and
who had been for days previous quietly study-
ng to render his introductory dinner worthy of
his reputation. Brunswick had been installed as
butler of the establishment, and Miss-WagbulPs
maid sought secret opportunities to visit the new
mansion and prepare for her coming duties as
housekeeper.
On the morning of the marriage-day nothing
occurred to mar the harmony of the prepara-
tions for the ceremony, excepting perhaps pre-
mature symptoms of intoxication upon the part
of the. Irish boy, and the detection at an early
stage of the worthy parent of the bride in the
act of laughing at the trouble of Miss Rushton,
as one of the bridesmaids, and his prompt ex-
pulsion from further participation in the prepar-
tory proceedings. The entire party repaired to-
St. Catherine's church, where the revered pas-
tor of the family, Dr. Tinker, united the two,
Miss Rushton and one of the fashionable Miss
Browns sustaining the bride in this hour of trial,
and Mr. Barnard and Mr. Titman performing a
similar part for our hero. The old lady-was
with difficulty prevented from indulging in her
desire to sit in the gallery that she might more
oomprehensively view the scene of the ceremo-
ny, and the washerwoman of Mr. Wagbull's es-
tablishment, with whom the bride was a great
favorite, was led out of the church in tears by
Brunswick and the coachman ere the ceremony
was finished.
To be tremblingly alive to gentle impressions
and yet to be able to preserve, when the prose-
cution of a design requires it, an immovable
heart amidst even the most imperious causes of
soul-subduing emotion, is perhaps not an impossi-
ble constitution of mind; but it is the utmost
and rarest endowment of humanity. Miss Stacy
saw the ceremony froin the neighborhood of the
organ, and retired from the edifice with the de-
termination to immediately pursue the .Cuban
gentleman with unrelenting vigor.
In the evening a merry party sat down to the
wedding-dinner in the new house. The great
cook bad surveyed the tasteful arrangements of
the table from a distance, and, deeply affected,
had pronounced it satisfactory, and authorized
the introduction of the guests. It is difficult to
say who was the life of the occasion, as every
one seemed inspired with the idea that he or she
.was, and endeavored to sustain the reputation by
their best efforts. Mr. Toplady was unusually
brilliant. Ile had learned in the parlor, as the
bride surveyed her presents, from the whispering
lips of the gratified Bessie herself, who had re-
served the important information as the best re-
turn she could make to her uncle, that "Miss De
Pompenkops was on her return from Europe."
In the words of the illustrious Jenkins we may
say that the occasion generally sparkled with the
wit and intelligence of the ilite of the intellectual
cand social circles of the metropolis, History was

represented by the joyful presence of Mr. Lamp-,
son of Westchester, with his lady, the latter hav-
ing added to the numerous bridal presents, as
their testimonial of friendship, a copy of her hus-
band's recently published and valuable work on
Simkinson, splendidly bound in Bagsterian style.
Great were the hopes which that lady expressed
at the final dabet of this great effort of her hus-
band's historical genius. The labors and anxiety
of its preparation were now over. The fears of
its proof-sheets being stolen during the progress
of its printing by the wretched Numhead and
other envious creatures were past. Immense
excitement was already noticeable in the histori-
cal world, and three copies had already been dis-
posed of. The faithful wife thoroughly captivated
the affections of Bessie's grandparent, and made
indefinite promises in reply to the latter's persist-
ent demands that she should thenceforth spend
a week at the Wagbull mansion every fortnight,'
accompanied by her little boys. Dr. Tinker came
out during the dinner in learned force upon vari-
ous metaphysical subjects, all his professional de-'
sires to mingle a little instruction with the amuse-
ment being warmed by the occasion. Mr. Wag-
bull made an extremely appropriate and affecting
speech in reply to the general toast to his health,
in which he endeavored to show that he had not
given away a daughter, but had been favored by
Providence with a noble young gentleman for a
son ; a view of the matter, which the old lady
seemed still somewhat doubtful about and dis-
posed to refute by momentarily returning to first
principles in her conduct toward our hero. In
conclusion, Mr. Wagbull proposed the health of
his old friend and pastor, Dr. Tinker, and alluded
to the latter's high intellectual qualities and ex-
treme virtues so eloquently, that the object of his
encomium cried " Hear ! hear!" in forgetful enthu-
siasm, and then replied in a manner which affect-
ed all present-the more interested by the depth
of'his remarks, the less so, by their length. And
then there were toasts to every one present, and
to the bride and bridegroom once more, at the
conclusion of which, Dr. Tinker, Mr. Toplady,
Mr. Titman, and other gentlemen present, at the
instigation and signal of Mr. Barnard, gave three
astonishing cheers in their honor. The domestics
of Mr. Wagbull's establishment, and of the new
one, together with a special deputation feom the
colored church of Shiloh, comprising the principal
members of its committee on music, were intro-
duced by Brunswick from the precincts below.
An epithalamium improvised by the head darkey
of the committee,swho was also an assistant in
the kitchen, was then sung by the tuneful band,
and with many wishes of future happiness to the
new couple, the party again retired below, to be
substantially rewarded, and to enjoy the evening
after their own fashion. Toward the hour of
eleven, the musical committee, leaving the man-
sion by the area-gate, gave six terrific cheers in
the back-yard, startling several of the neighbors
into the belief that a prominent politician had
moved into the neighborhood. They then retired
quietly to their respective homes. About the
same period, the more staid of the guests above,
had concluded that the hour for departure had
arrived, especially as Mr. Lampson, the historical
genius, had disappeared beneath the table, and
Mr. Toplady and two country relatives of Mr.
Winikfield had fallen fast asleep. Without car-,

rying into effect the somewhat-eccentric proposi-
tion of Mr. Barnard to the other gentlemen, that
they should retire to the billiard-room, extinguish
the lights, and try the efficacy of an unrestrained
personal combat to dissipate the effects of the
wine, the whole party retired from the newly-
founded home, leaving the happy bride and bride-
groom, with tears and embraces by the relatives,
and renewed wishes of perpetual joy and content-
ment from the others. Mr. Wagbull conducted
to his home for the night such guests as lived at
a distance or felt so, including the illustrious his-
torical scholar and his wife, the society of Mr.
Lampson having become especially interesting to
him from the secret political information with
which he had been intrusted in convivial mo-
ments by that gentleman, to the effect that so im-
portant had become his official relations and per-
sonal friendship with the collector of the port,
that the great functionary had made him a prom-
ise to resign in his favor.
We wish, indeed, that the filial misgivings of
Brunswick upon the marriage of his step-mother
with the divinity-student might have been invali-
dated by the result. But it was not so.  The
couple had been united scarcely six months, when
the. faithless swain, possessing himself of his
wife's small change and various portable articles
of the household, including the parlor-copy of
the Bible and Byron, eloped with a young sister
of Shiloh, whose tender, inexperienced years ren-
dered his dastardly conduct still more reprehen-
sible. As the principal part of his wife's con-
vertible funds had been, with perhaps prophetic
judgment, concealed beneath the nest of a cer-
tain perpetually-setting old hen, whose pugna.
cious disposition and chronic barrenness led him
to avoid the spot in his oval depredations, he for-
tunately was unable wholly to tiespoil the desert-
ed woman. He left a delicately-scented note, in
heroic verse, in which he feelingly alluded, after
the approved style of poets in similar difficulties,
to certairgdestinies which compelled his perma-
nent withdrawal from her society, and endeavored
to explain the embezzlement of her property, by
delicately insinuating that it was done for the
hum aA  and Christian purpose of chastening a
slight ropensity to avarice which he had ob-
served in her. Several friends of the bereaved
woman kindly consented to come and sit with'
her, and to console her in her deep affliction,
particularly at meals, and at other moments
when his absence would most likely be felt by
her. Such was the pertinacity of their friend-
ship, that although she at last felt forced todrive-
them from her house, with the observation that
she needed their consolation as little as she did
their company, it only seemed to increase their
Christian efforts, and they came back in greater
-force than ever.
The political downfall of Judge Pootoops was
complete. He was never able to recover the
high standing in the ranks of the party of his
ward, of which his bolting had deprived him.
His former adherents were the very first to sum-
mariLy eject him from its meetings the moment
he mnade his appearance at the door thereof.
Thcre was one, however, who still stuck by him
in adversity, and wvho dared, on such occasions,
those ungrateful time-servers to mortal combat-
his faithful admirer and former constable, Tim-
kins. Observing that it was useless to try for


MR. WINKFIELD.

office again, the latter energetically established a
feed-store, of which the kindling-wood depart-
ment was intrusted to the ex-judge. Timkins
found some difficulty in accustoming the lofty
spirit of the statesman to his new duties, and
frequently was obliged to tie him to the scene of
his labors. His mind would still turn back with
irrepressible force to his old political contests.
Imaginary scenes of political activity, drawn
from the composite elements of his experience,
occupied his retirement. Numerous plots and
masterly schemes of diplomatic subterfuge were
invented by him in the leisure of his arm-chair in
the wood-shed. Indeed, parties were formed,
dissolved, and  reconstructed, administrations
overthrown, policies changed, and the foundations
of state even shaken to their centre, by the fer-
tile imagination of this inveterate lover of poli-
tics, and it is quite possible that the hope of some
grand movement to call him from his retirement,
and put his schemes into practice, either in the
municipal or national part of the government,
never left his bosom. Until that moment should
arrive, he was content to be his own party, and
tb issuemanifestoes, promulgate orders and make
speeches to himself, and to appoint himself on
the various committees which the minute of his
plans suggested as necessary. Frequently, how-
ever, in the oratorical part of his proceedings,
he obtained the presence of-four boys and three
little girls, from their sports in the neighborhood,
and, on these occasions, they might be observed,
in solemn silence and awe, arranged in order
upon a bench in the wood-shed, with their* legs
dangling therefrom, while the energetic Cato pro-
ceeded in front of them to hurl defiance at the
leaders of the opposition, or call down the anathe-
mas of heaven upon the pernicious practices of
the factionists of his own party.
Shortly after his union with Miss Wagbull,
Moses was returning through Brooklyn with Mr.
Titman from a professional examination, by the
latter, of the Greenwood gate, when he became
the accidental witness of a surprising but ex-
tremely interesting sight, as they drove through
the street in which that respectable but weak
member of society, Mr. Tomlins, resided.  The
door of the Tomlins mansion was open, and mov-
ing therefrom toward the corner of the street
was a crowd of men and boys following, in an
evident state of extreme ecstasy and delight,
the desired father-in-law of Mr. Bunter, who was
intently engaged in kicking the Rev. Mr. Hunkey-
fell along the pavement, upon which that pious
.gentleman was endeavoring to make as rapid
progress as possible. At every application of Mr.
Tomlins's foot loud were the outcries of delight
by the increasing crowd, .but such was the in--
tensity of his feelings, and so thoroughly absorbed
was he in the accomplishment of his work, that
they were entirely unnoticed by him, and it was not
until he was physically exhausted that he ceased
and walked back in semi-appeased excitement to
the house,  T~he presumption founded upon this

scene by Moses was the eminently satisfactory
one, that - at last the unprincipled hypocrite's
machinations were discovered and visited with
condign vengeance by his finally awakened victim.
Moses felt an almost irresistible desire to inquire
how this had been brought about, but he con-
cluded it would be advisable, from the inflamed
countenance of the aroused Mr. Tomlins, and
from Mr. Titman's ignorance of his own connec-
tion with the matter, to postpone its gratifica-
tion. He soon afterward, -however, received a
note from the worthy Mr. Tomlins, in which the
latter, after frankly thanking our hero for his
endeavors to expose the wiles of the hypocrite
to him, and expressing his penitence for the ill
manner in which he had appreciated those en-
deavors, stated that he himself had at last dis-
covered the impious rascality and true objects
of his favorite, and felt that he could not re-
cover his self-respect until he had visited the
latter with personal indignity, which he had
taken occasion to administer on the last visit of
the unsuspecting rascal at his house; that he
had, in partial atonement for his own prejudiced
conduct and in justice to his daughter and the
excellent young man to whom she was at-
tached, consented to a quiet and private mar-
riage, and that they were already upon their
wedding-tour; that they had entreated him, ere
they went, to write to Mr. Winkfield informing
him of the nature of these events and their hap-
py issue, and that upon their return, which they
would promptly acquaint him with, they hoped
to renew the friendship which would never have
been interrupted but from the unscrupulous cun-
ning of the rascal aforesaid.
'Moses, a year or two subsequently, learned
through his friend Mr. Bunter, that the reverend
gentleman had induced an old lady of weak mind
to send him as missionary to Africa, and that,
after a short stay in the field of his proposed
labors, he had for some private reason absconded
into the interior, where he was. frequently heard
of by ships trading upon the coast, as having
become the head prince of A great tribe, and as
doing a heavy business in ivory, slaves, and jaun-
dice resulting from sixty-three attacks of the
jungle-fever. The governor of his palace, Prince
Lommiderio, at one period undertook to revolt,
seizing an occasion when the chief was supposed
to have been hunting ground-nuts with his retinue
in one of his remote provinces. The wily chief,
who had purposely secreted himself in his ele-
phant pasture, suddenly returned, extracted the
front-teeth of the rebel with his fist, and order-
ing a wild, untamed ostrich to be brought forth,
tied the criminal upon its back,-and set fire to
the bird's tail. The unhappy Lommiderio may
have perished in, the desert, but it is more prob-
able that he was pecked to death by the frenzied
bird in its wild endeavors to extinguish the con-
flagration.
We now bid our readers farewell.

T

160

I
I

I'l


  
             
         
       
   
