
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, N. R. (1797-1877). Legends of the South .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7825
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Legends of the South 
            
                 LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. BY VIATOR. BALTIMORE: STEAM PRESS OF WILLIAM K. BOYE. 1869.   CONTENTS. I. LEGEND OF THE WHTE  SULPHUR.... .................. 5 II. LEGEND  OF  TIlE  WHI'E: SULPHUR .......................6 1 "I. LEGEND  OF  THE  SWEET  SPRINGS .............. ....... 41 IV. LEGEND OF THE MAMMOTH CAVE ......................45 V. LEGEND OF THE HOT SPRINGS OF VIRGINIA .......... G VI. SOMNAMBULA ................... 1    PREFACE. WHOEVER perpetrates trifles like those contained in this little volume, can not expect to conciliate public sentiment by any sort of excuse; but he may hope, in some degree, to avert censure, by truly averring that they were unpremeditated, and were suggested by a feeling of courtesy. The author was a guest at the White Sulphur, and also at the Sweet in '68, and, after spending some days most delightfullyat each, was told, when calling for his bill, that they were most happy to entertain him, but there were no charges. The author has only to say that if they treat in this manner all who are as little deserving, they will never make their fortunes. The author determined that he would endeavor to. cancel a part of the obligation by writing something that might still further attract attention to these delightful retreats. The first edition was never published, (except par- tially in the newspaper,) but merely  distributed   iv         PREFACE. among the author's friends. The present volume is published with a new legend. In regard to criticism, which all authors so much dread, I would remark that I heard of a young miss who, after reading these legends, had the unkindness to say that "she did not believe a word of them- she did not believe in the asserted origin of the Sulphur Springs, nor in Coyahula, nor in the Naiad of the- Hot Springs." This was very unkind; but the author must disarm criticism of this kind by a plea of guilty, for these legends are altogether the offspring of his own ima gi- nation; they are just as true, however, as many things that are sworn to before a Committee of Congress, therefore read, my dear patrons, with all the faith you can. VIATOR.   "EGENDS OF THE SOUTH. I. "EGElVDl   O F THWE W-ITE SULPHUR. WHERE shall you go? Why, go to the White Sulphur. There is undoubtedly the most valuable medicinal water in the world, and where else can you find "a valley so sweet," or air- so salubrious? Nor are these the only attractions. The magnifi- cent hotel, surrounded by a circle of cottages of classic. beauty and neatness, is kept by the Peytons, well-known Virginia gentlemen, and -so kept that no man languishes for his home. Nostalgia, or home- sickness, is here cured by one draught from the spring, one sniff of the air, and one dinner at the hotel. The only circumstance which here makes one unhappy is the thought of the inevitable hour when he must go. There are now here some eight hundred guests, but room for many more. The apartments are spacious and airy, the table supplied with every delicacy; the company-is select, happy and joyous. Soft music 1*   6      LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. floats on the -air, and beauty haunts the bowers and the groves. But if you will risk the loss of your senses, visit the magnificent ball-room, perhaps the finest in the world, "Where youth and pleasure meet, To chase the glowing hours with flying feet." There you will behold every style of beauty in which our wide-spread country exults-the golden locks and azure eyes of the northern blonde, and the raven hair and black eyes of the southern brunette. But view them in motion, as "on gossamer pinions they float through the air" so buoyant, so sylph-like, that you do not realize that they are things of earth till, in the whirling mazes of the dance, you catch a glimpse of a foot and ankle "That would set ten poets raving." Do you remember how Tom O'Shanter beheld a 'dance of witches? "Hodw Tmmy glowered, anmazed and curious, While mirth and fun grew fast and furious." This which I deseribe is -far more truly a dance of witches; for, although they do not fly through:the air on broomsticks, they are infinitely more bewitching even than Cutty Sark.   IlXtI TE SULPHUR.        7 There is one thing that astonishes me, and that is the neglect, by poets and historians, of the wild and romantic legends which give interest to the hills, valleys and fountains of this wonderful region. One of these I must rescue from oblivion, since it explains, in a far more satisfactory manner than any geologi- cal hypothesis, the origin of the Sulphur Spring. In days long gone by,} about the time when the pale faces first appeared on the eastern coast, the valley of the White Sulphur was the favorite camping-ground of a powerful tribe of Indians. - Here dwelt a noble chief "Within these mountains blue, Whose streams his kindred nation quaft; /And y 'his side, in battle true, A thousand warriors drew the shaft." Where the hotel now stands was the'council cham- ber of the 'braves, :and the circle, now occupied by cottages, was crowned with the wigwams of the numerous tribe. The surrounding mountains, which still abound with deer, were their hunting grounds. Here, wh-en -the chase was done, and the shade of the mountain-overspread the valley, the young braves and the Indian maid-ens engaged in their wild fantastic dance. Among 'the maidens there was, at -that time, one of surpassing beauty. "Her eyes were as black as the sloe in the "hedge." :Her skin was of the hue-of, but by far brighter than, a copper cent new from the mint. Her coal black tresses fell luxuriantly over her lovely   8      LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. neck and swelling bosom. O! what happiness, thought the-young braves, even to look upon her! Her name was Coyahula, euphonious in poetry, but neglected. Her lover was the most glorious young brave of his  tribe, and destined to be its chief. His name was Wyandola, which, in the Indian tongue, signifies, the same as does "le plus brave des braves," in French. Wyandola was tall, of noble countenance and com- manding presence. His name was a terror to the hostile nations, and was the battle-cry of his tribe. His wampum belt was adorned with the scalps of many a warrior, and, I regret to say, of many a papoose and squaw. This would be the greater stain upon -the 'Indian character but, for very modern instances of war waged cruelly upon women and children. Wyandola's shoulders were adorned with the skin of a panther slain by his own hand. But, alas! the caprice, the fastidiousness of the female breast! that causes her to turn from a Hyperion and gloat upon a Satyr.- Coyahula responded not to the suit of her lover. At length, when, on one occasion, Wyan- dola stood before her,- silent and motionless, with his hand on his heart, (for this is Indian eloquence,) she said to him with a frown, "Bring me the head of yonder panther that infests these mountains and destroys the game of the Indian." Away strode the brave, -threw his. quiver upon his back, seized his faithful bow, and disappeared in the- forest. ' After days and nights of vigilance he traced the monster to his lair and slew him as he issued to pursue   -WHTE SULPHUR.        9 his prey. Wyandola cast the spoil at the foot of the stern beauty. She viewed the head of the monster with satisfaction, but rewarded her hero with no approving smile. Raising her head, she looked sternly upon him and said: "Bring me the dark scalp of the warrior who slew my father, and then"- Again Wyandola strode silently from her presence. The enemy that he sought was the most renowned warrior of a hostile tribe. After days and nights of untiring pursuit, gliding like a serpent through brake and copse, he ambushed the hunting-path of his foe and slew him with an arrow from his bow. His scalp, still reeking with blood, our hero threw into the lap of the maiden. She viewed it a long time without emotion, and then bestowed upon our hero the first faint smile that had ever blessed his love. "Go once more, my brave," she said, "bring :me the scalp of the fairest maiden of the pale faces, who, as our seers declare, are one day-to be the destroyers of our race, and then, Wyandola, and then"- For a long time he stood motionless and silent, gazing upon her charms, but now irresolute -from hope deferred and confidence- impaired. "Dost fear?" said she, assuming a look of scorn and pointing to the east. Once more, with the look of one who dares even death, he went silently away. Wyandola enfolded in his wampum belt a small store of dried deer's flesh,:and cakes of honey and parched corn. He strung anew hisswell-tried bow and pointed again the flint of his arrows. His scalping knife of   "EGENDS OF THE SOUTtH. obsidian hung from his left side, and his tomahawk adorned his right. That very evening he plunged into the forest, and, guided by the polar star, directed his determined step to the rising sun. River and mountain impeded him not, he swam the one and surmounted the other. At length, toiling with hand and foot, he reached, one morning, the summit of an eminence, and then, there burst upon his astonished view the broad Atlantic, blazing with the glory of the morning sun. Sheltered by surrounding heights, a tranquil bay lay at his feet and, on its bosom, spreading its broad wings to the sun, like a vast bird of the ocean, he saw the wondrous ship which bore from another world to this, the stranger and the destroyer. By the side of a stream which here discharged its waters, he beheld the cabins of the stranger, and saw where he had subdued the forest and made the earth subservient to his wants. For a long time, astonished- and bewildered, Wyan- dola gazed on the scene below. It 'was the morning of the Sabbath, unknown to the shepherd of the forest, and, as he gazed, the deep and mellow tones of the church-going bell fell upon his ear. All that day, with his eagle eye, he watched the movements of the villagers. He saw the strangers and, among them, young men and maidens, seeking in the evening the shady bowers of the river side, where the path was here and there obscured by copses. dense with green foliage, and adorned with the wild-rose.   I'IITE SULPHUR.   When the sun descended and darkness concealed his movements, the savage, like the wily serpent, wound his stealthy way around the wooded border of the clearing, and made his night-lair in one of the copses by the river side. When the sun again rose he was astonished at the change of scene. He saw strange men and stranger animals toiling in their war upon the forest. The ringing of the woodman's axe and the crash of the falling oak, fell upon his astonished ear. "These men" thought he, "are truly our destroyers, for they make war upon our mother, the forest, "OCyahula shall be obeyed." All day he remained so silent and motionless, that even the spar- row seemed unconscious of his presence, seen by none, but seeing all. When "came still evening on" the villagers desisted from their toil, and, after brief repose, sought the sequestered and shady path by the river side. Unconscious of danger, their garments brushed the very thicket in which lay the watchful savage. At length, as:the deeper shades of evening fell upon 'the scene, the villagers sought their dwellings, all but one unhappy pair who lingered apart. Regardless of the beauty of -the -scene, and conscious of nothing -but each other,-their gentle steps sought solitude and -silence. Not -even Wyaadola could look upon the pair without instantly learning what was the :subject of their thoughts and what the sentiments which they breathed in whispers. . The reader need -know 'no more but ihat they were immigrants efrom a :distant -shore,-Stanislans and Frederica.-Tall, 'agile and   "EGENDS OF THE SOUTH. graceful,-his face beaming with every generous and noble sentiment, Stanislaus seemed one on whom, heaven "had set its seal to give the world -assurance of a man." But his manly beauty would have passed unnoticed in presence of the glowing charms of the maiden who leaned upon his arm. Never did the blush of conscious love paint a fairer cheek, nor drooping eye-lids veil more brilliant orbs. The words of her lover manifestly wrought that gentle heaving of her breast, that down cast look, that tremor of her lips. Wyandola saw and was astonished at, her beauty. The tableau before him, revealing at a glance the history of their loves, impressed even his savage heart, and, for a moment, he relented. But as the evening breeze gently waved the golden locks of Frederica, they reminded him of the price of Coyahula's love, and the fate of the lovers was decided. 'At that moment, in the stillness of the evening air, a slight movement in the thicket was heard; it was like the rustling of the herbage as the serpent coils himself for his spring, or the crushing of the brake under the panther, couchant for his leap. In an instant resounded the fatal string, and, swift as the dark glance of Wyandola's eye, flew the deadly shaft. It pierced-it transfixed,- the heart of Frederica.- One wild, agonizing shriek and she fell dead at the feet of -her lover.- Horror-stricken, stupified, Stanis- laus had not a moment to rally from the shock, when, from the opposite thicket, burst the terrible form   WyIyTE SULPHUR. of Wyandola. With tomahawk uplifted, uttering the fearful war-whoop, he sprang upon his prey. Though taken with terrible surprise, courage with Stanislaus was an instinct, and, all unarmed, he sprang forward to meet the foe. He seized the wrist of lWyandola as the axe descended, averting the blow, and then occurred a terrible struggle for the weapon. -Never before had Wyandola encountered his equal in strength and courage. Nerved by vengeance and despair, Stanislaus wrung the weapon from the grasp of the savage, and struck one terrible blow, gashing deeply the forehead of Wyandola, but, at the moment, the knife of his enemy was buried in; his heart, and he fell dead upon the prostrate form of Frederica. Dashing away, the blood which, from his own wound, obscured his sight, Wyandola seized the flowing locks of Frederica and, with one sweep of his knife, severed the scalp from  that beautiful-head. Raising it on high he uttered the terrific war-whoop, and, as the vill- agers rushed to the scene, alas! too late for rescue or revenge, he plunged into the thicket and was seen no more. Wyandola, though weak from  loss of blood and previous toil, -made his way to the wigwams  of a friendly tribe, and there "with fever balm and sweet sagamite" his wound was healed and his strength in a  measure, restored.           , Thrice the moon waxed and waned and Wyandola returned not. His tribe prepared to celebrate his death, when lof one evening, as the maidens were 4J nswr   I4     LEGENDS OF TILE SUTIL assembled in the glade, and the warriors were smoking their pipes around, Wyandola rushed among them. Travel-soiled, wasted and haggard, with a hideous scar upon his noble brow, he presented himself before the maiden of his love. Into her lap he threw a scalp, covered with golden ringlets which might have graced. the head of a princess, stained here and there with gouts of blood. Silently Coyahula gazed on this trophy of -his prowess; faintly she smiled when she saw the blood-drops, and raising her head she looked upon her lover. No smile beamed from her face to cheer and reward his devotion. She turned from him with an air of disgust, and bestowed looks of love upon a stripling that stood by her side. This youth was the zany of his tribe. His head was adorned with the tail of a wild turkey. His wampum belt exhibited no nobler trophies than' the bright colors of a skunk's tail and the .rattle of a snake. Wyandola's hope departed, the bow-string of his spirit was slackened, his head sunk upon his breast, and he silently sought his cabin. It was evident that his mighty heart was broke, and: that his end was approaching. Before his soul departed, he prayed to the Good Spirit of the Indians for vengeance upon his cruel destroyer. But his prayer prevailed not. Then, in his despair, he called on the spirit of evil; he was heard and a compact struck by which he bar- tered his soul for vengeance. A few days after Wyandola was laid -in the earth, with his tomahawk, scalping-knife and bow by his side, Coyahula, the   WBITE -SULPHUR.  .     15 cruel, -was dancing with other maidens -on the green sward.  Suddenly a terrible peal of thunder was heard, a dark cloud came rolling down the mountain, it was riven by a flash of lightning, and out burst the form of a fiend too-hideous to look upon, reeking with brimstone and fire. He rushed: into the midst, and seizing the unhappy maiden with'claws of iron,-bore her away. For an instant all were astounded, but quickly the Indian youths sprang to their arms. A thousand arrows rebounded from the scales of the grizzly monster. At length one, feathered from a bird of Paradise, appeared to -pierce his atmor. The fiend uttered a yell which made   the very mountains tremble, and smiting the earth with his- cloven foot, a- hdeous chasm was opened. Down sunk the monster, bearing the wretched maiden, whose shrieks re-echoed through the mountains, and to this day are heard, on dark and gloomy nights, though mistaken by  the unpoetic mind for the cry of the bird of night. The earth closed over them, leaving only a fissure, through which issues the Sulphur Spring, and thus undoubt- edly did it originate.   IEfGSEND OF TH-E WEISTE SULPHBUR. "Some books are lies fra end to end," - And some great lies were never pen'd," "But this that I am gaun to tell," ' With- other matters," "Is just as true as the deil's in hell," "Or Sulphur- Wateis." WHOEVER has read, with faith, our legend No. 1 of the White Sulphur, will have no difficulty in giving credence to the following. The descent of the fiend through the earth, together with the qualities of the waters, clearly indicates the character of the region which lies beneath, and how it is peopled. If the fiend descended through the fissure made bv his awful tread, it is possible for him again to ascend, and an avenue of communication to be permanently established between the realms above and those below. As upon Jacob's ladder angels descended and ascended, so, through this avenue, do spirits damned visit- the glimpses of the moon and exert their malign influences upon sublunary things. When, on one occasion, it was demanded of the arch fiend "whence comest thou?" he replied, "from walk- ing to and fro in the earth, and up and down in it."   WHTE SULPHUR.         17 Mark that, gentle reader, "up and down in it," clearly indicating that such avenues exist, The fashionable watering-places, all the world over, are well known to be -marts, where are held fairs for the bartering of beauty, hearts and fortunes; Cupid and Hymen are the presiding deities of these places. Pru- dent mamas bring to these lovely resorts their daugh- ters, blooming with health and exuberant with life and spirits, ostensibly to drink the waters. The real motive is to exhibit her priceless charms, and to barter them away for fortune and position. This is all fair and right. How shall such an attractive piece of merchan- dise obtain its price. unless it be known, and where can it be effectually displayed but in those lovely resorts, where, from all parts of our broad land, the votaries of fashion and pleasure resort. Where such a vast variety of both sexes assemble, there must be many that pos- sess natural affinities, for each other. I believe in love, and true love too, at first sight. Hearts, by Heaven designed for each other, rush together, like the ams in a chemical mixture, as soon as they are brought into proximity. Why then should such gems the dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear, when, like the Atlantic Cable, they can be rescued from such depths and made to electrify the world.. But where is your legend? says my fair reader. Have a moment's patience, my-dear miss, I was merely anticipating my apology for hinting that your charms may be an article of merchandise. 2*   1 8     LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. Now for the legend. Not long ago jhere came to the White Sulphur a fond mamma, bringing with her a daughter of surpassing loveliness. She must-have seen seventeen summers, but not half so many winters, for she shone with no borrowed light, and made around her perpetual spring and summer. Her mamma, careful soul, brought her here not on account of any damaging infirmity, but on account of some trifling malady characterized by frequent sigh- ing, and a sense of vacancy at the heart. The family physician thought that it might all arise from slight torpor of the liver and prescribed the waters. Ridi- culous idea! that there should be any thing torpid about this damsel, who had life-and spirit enough to diffuse vivacity and joy through a whole assembly. I will not attempt, vain task, to describe her beauty. She was a lily and I will not attempt to paint her. Combine in your imagination, my dear reader, the love- liest features that you ever beheld and you have her portrait before you. She was a northern blond, with a high complexion, "perfectly natural " as her mother assured every body. Her eyes were of the deepest blue, and shot forth a lustre that would have been overpowering, but that her long silken eyelash absorbed the redundant light. What is often too much neglected in the composition of beauty, she possessed a full and magnificent- had, with well expanded forehead, her lips and teeth --, well I Iforget always that I am attempting the impos- sible.   WHTE SULPHUR.        19 So remarkable was her beauty, that once seen, she never was forgotten, "but rose where'er you turned your eye, the morning star of memory." When the ball-room filled, the night after her arrival, she rose like Hesperus before the admir- ing vision of all. Her empire was established in a moment. All other lights paled before her. As she cast her eyes around the circle of admiring youths present, her attention rested on none. Her soul looked out in vain for the congenial spirit. She still sighed and felt the vacancy. Some three or four days after her arrival, there came, among a throng of visitors, a young gentleman from the South. He caught my eye the instant that he sprang, with elastic step, from the top of the coach. We-speak of a "commanding presence." Never was it more completely triumphant than in this instance. He was some six feet high, erect, with limbs like those of Apollo. There was unaffected grace in his every movement. His firm tread an-d confident air might have been those of Achilles. His countenance accorded well with his general expression. It was not critically beautiful in every part, but" there was a harmony of feature that gave effect to all. There was a joyous and benevolent expression beaming from his face, which gave evidence that there dwelt within a soul which stamped its character indelibly upon his noble countenance. As he registered his name curious eyes were looking over his shoulders and read "Ed. Langley, Georgia." '     O eormw.   20     LEGENDS OF TIIE SOUTH. His arrival was not unnoticed by brighter eyes, and no smnall flutter of excitement was the result. .' As he was conducted to his apartment, the porches, as usual at that -hour of the day, were thronged with people. He gracefully doffed his eap as he passed them, and- slightly bowed, recognizing the presence of ladies, as every refined gentleman should do. The fair ones seemed not to notice him while his eye was upon them, but as he passed, every eye furtively followed him in: his retiring steps. "Ahl there is a man for you at last!" said one- "What a fine figure," -said another!"How gracefully he moves," said a third, "What a benevolent expres- sion, so young and yet-so manly an air!" "Ah, my dears," said one of the mammas, "you  know nothing of his fortune or position;" "those, away men are but gilded loam or painted:clay." The daughters did not hear mamma, though Shakespeare spoke through her mouth.  . In the evening, young Langley visited the ball-room, he was attired in the most simple but tasteful manner, was a little abashed before so many unknown faces, turned upon him, but presently was gracefully'at ease. Almost in a moment his empire was established, and he shone as a star of the- first' magnitude. As he entered, our heroine was dancing-in the distant part of the room. Langley met with two or three acquaint- ances by whom he- as introduced to others. With- that vivacity of which his countenance gave. promise he was entertaining -all around him, but fixing his   - APHTE SULPHUR- .      H attention upon none. A lovely married lady took his arm and conducted him through the room, Christine wtas standing, after the dance, and conversing with her partner. The eye of young Langley was glancing around with careless observation, when, in an instant, it became fascinated and his step arrested. He became fixed like one seized with catalepsy,- a malady which arrests the movements and absorbs the attention of its subject. His interesting companion was addressing agreeable responses to his remarks and enforcing them with smiles,-he heard them not; beautiful forms were, flitting before him--he saw them not--his vision was. concentrated upon one object and that was the form of our heroine. She saw his ardent gaze and her eyes sought the floor, and beauty's ensign -was heightened in her cheeks and in her lips. As she furtively raised' them, they again met his admiring glance, and- again fell. Here ;as another meeting of Romeo and Juliet. "Her beauty hung: upon the cheek of night like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear,"-and to her was -pre- sented the image that had been painted by her imagi- nation and seen in visions, but never realized till now, Their hearts rushed together in an instant, and they loved before they had spoken. His companion introduced him. For a few moments they both seemed deprived of utterance. They stam- mered a few sentences of common address.!and reply, and were for, a -moment silent. -But love- will give    22 fLEGENDS OF THZE SOUT. speech to the lips of the 'dumb, and utterance4 to "thoughts that breathe " and " words that burn." When the spell was taken off and speech returned, I saw' them conversing with the deepest interest; I heard in part, but will not betray their- confidence, I saw him whispering in her ear as she hung upon his arm, words which called blushies to her cheeks and caused her eyes to seek the floor, and her bosom 4o heave with joyous emotions. Presently music struck up and the dance was called. Our hero led her to the floor and the waltz began. In form, in beauty, in the poetry of motion, was there ever such a pair.. They floated through the air as if the floor repelled their touch. All other dancers ceased their motion and, spell-bound, looked on in admiration. Every one was in- despair, and looked on in silence. None thought -of supplanting either. They were given to each other by common consent. They loved and were- beloved. From that moment they entered upon a new being. Could anything but death interrupt such bliss? But-" hark, a deep sound strikes like a rising knell, did you not hear it? No I To them "'twas but the wind." .- For a few days all went merry as a marriage 'bell. With them how "smoothly ran the current of true love "-rippling over pebbles of jasper and agate, its dimpling surface kissed by overhanging flowers. Alas! soon to be dashed into foam :-by pposing rocks,   WHTE SULPHUR.        23- and lost, with sullen plunge, in dark anc loathsome- glens. But a few days elapsed, when there arrived a ts- terious stranger, whose advenit was to exert a great and disastrous influence on the fate and fortunes of theseour lovers. lie arrived in the early morning, no one knew by what conveyance, or by whom accom- panied., Never did an individual create a more profouind sensation. The moment one looked upon him his attention was riveted, and he was inspired with anxious interest. "Distingue" is a word scarcely strong enough to express the remarkable presence of the man.  It Ihas been said of a great English statesman, that no one, could accidentally meet him under a shed, to escape a shower, without discovering that he was the greatest man in England. So none could look for an instant on this man I present, without feeling that he was an extraordinary. being.                   , ' No sooner was he noticed by those who were watch- ing for arrivals, than the registers was eagerly ,in- spected. He recorded his name as 1. M Seayton, of the Interior. Strange I what oould this mean,"' Oh!" said a quid- nunc, it iseclear, he is Secretary of the Interior. "I yas sure he was a man of note."     --- He was about six feet in height, erect and well. developed. A finer figure of a man was never seen,. e' *'     '  *"    24    -  LEGJ#8 -9 F tfEJvSOUTI. "in shape and gesture proudly eminent.' His-quick, energetic motions indicated enormous power-. But his face was the most impressive part of him. His eye was " blaclk as death" and shot' glances upon a too curious crowd that it- was impossible to endure. The most obtrusive were repelled by them. His features were most strongly cut ands capable of 'the most varied. expression. It was a face which had apparently been once sublimely beautiful, but had been furrowed- by the most agonizing -passions. But still half its original, brightness was there i:and- occa- sionally shone forth with extraordinary splendor. His face had not yet " lost all its original bright- ness,". "as when the sun, new risen;,\looks. through the horizontal misty air, shorn- of his beams."   - When his attention .was not excited, and he' was left to reflection, his features settled into the most- painful and anxious expression, caused apparently by agony of mind. But, when .engaged -in conversation with those who had influence to divert his attention from' himself, there beamed-forth from -his face -an- ardor and beauty of expression which penetrated the very soul of the listener, and exerted a most extra- ordinary fascination .  Those who heard his conversation were astonished at the-ac curacy and. amount of his knowledgei - No subject came up of which he was not- perfect master. All great historical events were-as familiar to: him as, if he had been present: at their occurrence. He -spoke, all modern languages with perfect fluency.   -lnIItE SULPHUR&        ai Various were the' opinions expressed in regard to his nationality. French'visitors claimed- him-as their counntryman,--hie had evidently been at home in -Pairis. :The Italians were equally tenacious, for'hespbke the pure Etruscan. He, however, spoke the'English lan- guage without the slightest foreign accent.  There was also great diversity of opinion in regard to his age,' some- thinking him to be twenty-five, some fiffy., As to his: profession -the're-was, equal doubt.' The person who kept the faro bank was sure: he had seen him somewhere.  An, emin/ent lawyer present, disfin- guished for sharp practice, was confident that he had consultede with him and derived 'important practical hints from him, but who he'was he could not tell. A reigning belle was sure she- h-ad flirted with him but had forgotten where.  He manifested a decided aversion to doctors' and clergymen. The venerable Archbishop, when newly crossed -with- holy water, seemed to agitate and'-repel him'astonishingly. His dress was elegantly simple, yet^ of the richest. material. He wore but one ornament-a stone of remarkable lustre, which shone in his bosom. But for its:!extraordinary size no one would have doubted its being a diamond -of the first water. A bet was made as to its quality, and a dealer in jewels who happened to be present was recquested to notice it and decide. He-passed-,:Mr. Seyton -closely and the mioment' he  had, a near view-of the.'gem, he started with- astonish- ment.--made a profound bow and passed on. '"Gentle- men," said he, '"it is not only'a stone of eniormous. size, 3   2-6     LEGKNDS OF THE -SOUTH. - but of the most perfect purity and lustie. It is larger than the Pitt diamond w-hich shone in the hilthof Napoleon's sword. 'At the lowest estimate it is worth a million. None- but a foreign prince, of fabulous riches, could possess such a stone."  From  that moment no one doubted that he was a scion of some royal stock, choosing to travel incog.  Such was the profound deference which he inspired, that fewl dared - to approach or address him, and yet he was courteously affables Curious observers noticed a little halting in the walk of this remarkable person. There seemed to be -a little imperfection in his right foot. The boot, near the toe, was not as f1l and well-shaped as the left. It was the more noticeable on account of the extreme elegance and grace of his person in all other respects. It had been remarked by a distinguished lady, then at the springs, ian authoress of great renown, who took great interest in the character of Lord Byron, and, ghoul-like, in exhami-ng his immortal remains, that-he, bore a-surprisi'ng resemblance to that- noble poet, not only in person but -in genius and ' attainrents. She thought that Seyton had, perhaps, heard this suggees tion, and assumed :the gait of .Byron to render more striking the resemblance.   -'  qone audaious little gentleman from- New York,; the Paul Pry of the company, undertook '-to- develope the mystery- of his character. Having an opportunity to pick .up the stranger's glove, which hedrot'so nthek prhb he followed and presented:-it to him. Thio                       .-   ; ni t. lw SCTLfBR. .    .2 gave him- an opportunity to- address. the stranger and open a conversation. After noticing the beauty of the morning,. he: droptS a remark that' perhaps his native skies abroad were even more beautiful than ours. The stranger replied that there were no skies abroad more, orjlonger, familiar to him than those of America, or more admired. Hndeed I said Mr. Pry, we had conjectured that you were of some foreign land. I did not say that- I had the honor to be an American, said he, and yet I can reach my own country without crossing the: ocean. Here was a -puzzler. Indeed! said: our little, Paul, some of us inferred from the register of .the hotel that you were Secretary of the Interior. "A mistake,"' said the stranger, beginning to be impatient. Have I not seen you on the floor of Congress? ..aid Mr.. Pry. - I doubt. whether. you have seen me- there, though I fancy- that I have had no small influence in directing its measures, -replied Seyton.  -Are you acquainted with, the distinguished member' from Massachusetts? said Pry. ' Intimately, I, am- -much with-.him, and -soon we shall-be inseparable," said-our-hero. C   ' "Indeed! well! whoever messes with him, one, of the parties will require a long. poon." The-strager strted andtPm  - his dark eyes there flashed- c glance, abccompannied with san expressioa;  so  scornfulv-and withering, that our, little inquisitor sItink away in terror, :.. ....: ,    A8  .   LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. Still it was settled that the atranger, was a prince,. choosing to travel incog. and no further- intrusive enquiries were made. His equipage arrived on the following day-mag- mificent-bla-ck- horses and an'elegant coach, the whole turn-out remarkably -"neat but not; gaudy." 'As to his attendants, , his nearest follower -or henchman,"' was a dark-skinned urchin, some sixteen years of age, who might have been the Scipio of Gil Blas, redivi- vus. He was continually at the heels of his master, and watched with heedful attention every movement and every look. His eye was as dark and watchful as- that .of the serpent in coil. A look from his-master conveyed his commands without 'the uttering of a word. I should have remarked that on the morning of the Seyton arrival, the fountain of the Sulphur was greatly agitated, and its waters for that, day undrinkable. I do not pretend to account for this. I will merely- remark, that when he finally disappeared the same phenomenon was repeated. A prince of unbounded wealth, '"which outshone that of Ormus of Ind," o-elegant person, of unlimited knowledge, eloquent an!!engaging! Conceive of the sensation which must have'"been created among the astonished and admiring'fair. Such a flutter of excite- ment was never before seen. All agreed that he was a star of the first magnitude, not even -the "Son of the Morning". shone with,-more brilliancy.  .    * -^nRD^j isF .,-.-v \:   2 When le ..first ,ppearedf po. the, esplanade-its wag Xthronged: with ladies.. Hn a- few -:momentas- they nearly all disappeared as if shunning. his -.observa:ipon. Strange!! lBut after a',little it. 4,was' m ani fest: why. They, retired .to arm, to stharp en their weapons to call up their charms, to: dres for, killing. .Ry;the way, I saw, a liftte :charmer chafing: cpolor ,intQ: ,he: cheeks. withH a rough .towel, adjusting her. curls and, pm-oticing,. attitudes.- r .     ,  After half an, hour, and what a metamorphosis! Before their disappearance they had been .as straigh and erect, as saplings; now, in the extravagance of the Grecian.- Band--they were- all rectangular, their angles ,ot sharp however. :BIaltimoreans dI:you remember ancient Hagar, not she of the wilderness,. (Mr, Seyton might,) but: Hagar the: chanter? who walked the streets of Baltimore some thirty years ago,. leaning upon her broomstick?. I shall not compare the atttude'of these ladies to--hers. Oh no I But perhaps . I ca-n give an idea, thu- .  - ' -      - -: * -- - *- I - If $ny7f' .b prsenv p rt- aFc-the^ A- ite ult- durting these events shoid-.diseove^:in[ fhi:es ou:iliusrfatiim,: any resemblance- in-- form, feature-or: expression toi ahy   -30     ,LEGENWDS   W OF s THEsOfTH. one of the reigning bellesof that peritod, I beg leave to declare,:that there is. nothingpersonalin it. None but the spirit of-ancient Hagar could complain.,-, Many of theegentlemen bachelora were slain outright; that is sentimentally slain, and were. bagged. by some of the fair; but Mr.- Seyton, whose quick glances were not idle, seemed -unmoved, and continued his solitary walk. The Son of the Morning had not yet seen the Evening Star--she had made her conquest, but alas I I must relate a small dialogue which I overheard: A dowager of ducal appearance had by her side a piece of merchandise, blooming -in youth and beauty. "What a. wonderful and mysterious stranger we have-among us " said she; "saw ever- any one so dis- tingue. What a figure! What a face,! What vast riches! Hush! there he comes, speak of a certain person and you are sure to see * * * * *  "Ma'a'a!!" said Maria. '&I said nothing, child." "Yes,  but you    " "Hush, child, go to your chamber, brighten the color in your left cheek, adjust your hair and come to me. Remember your bend, and do not stand up as stiff as a poker." * As yet Mr. Seyton hadnot been introduced to any of the fair, and he was too: refined a gentleman, and too sensible of the proprieties of life, to accost any one without introduction. Some of ;theJowagers gave hints to ;the gen&tleai with whom he was observed to ,speak, to,prest nhhim, but they declared:.one. knew: ihim-sufiiently-.well.   ,d.,to e    .     ,w   "EGaENLDS OF : THSSo. UTH.    3  -"Selfish and. mean,'" -said ' 'dowager... .' They know . that they will be' put out like stars by the sun." But without an-y favors -from  the envious, throng, his introduction soon-occurred, and - in'-this wise. A :-A distinguished belle, the second:': morning after his arrival, was about to motint her beautiful and-high spirited horse for a ride, attended by-her lover. When the horse wasb0rought upon the path, near wheie Seyton stood, he became surprisingly excited, snorted, pranced and attempted to tear away from the grasp of -the pow- erful groom. If he had seen the-   he could not 'have been more agitated. .The brave girl, however, sprang into the saddle in a moment;-but before she had received the reins or adjusted her dress, the infu- riated animal tore away from  the groom and dashed,  like lightning around the circle.'- Her dress -became entangled in the horns of the saddle, her- foot missed the stirrup, and she was borne to swift destruction. A cry of horror burst from the throng. But with in- credible swiftness;Seyton rushed across the circle, met, the horse in his swift career,-seized- him :by the' bit, and with superhuman; strength- pinned- him- to the earth in a moment.' With his left arm: he gently lifted the lady from thee saddle;: and gve her to the arms of her friends unhurt, but insehsiblee.  - The .ice of:ceremoin' wans Broken. The - mother dropt at- the feet of :the ---   of -Mr. Seyttn,- seiZed his hand, and-: bathed it) withi tears. 'All the ladiesdpresent; overcome with emotion, forgot':ll1 cere- mony; ran: to him and:tha-ked-:him for the wonderful   --X-r-  lLESKh7DEGENDS, P" t 1'xSl salvation of. their f-rifen d-- After:tli t: ovrey: r a-y lb nedy In him, and exulted in: his acquaintance. -And:: now: -I have a- greAl -mind to:: break:-;off my legend atnd- oncludei leaving this aa mere fragment of a legend&. .I have often, listened to a. sermon, whet,; after-. some progress, therO :has ecurred-: -periodsf in the. I discourse .that seemed: tome capital stopping places,? but :mine-is- not al sermon; though ;employing some of the machinery of. clerical: eloquence.. - wiUigo on, my dears, thouogh I warn yoi that your: little hearts will be terribly wrung -that is, if I suc-- ceed in; depicting the truth. :If you would' avoid such an : infliction, -.throw dow n the legend -at once. My own sensibilities, though not0 untried, as many of you:- know,- will- be terribly lacerated.- I -amm almost sorry- that I ever began. -But I fear -that some one will purloin this manuscript, and " faith;! .he'l:. print it." A friend of mine has pronounced this a "'-devil of ; a legend," but insists- upon my going onm- So:here it is.-- You ha;ve- not forgotten, our hero and heroine, and the-smooth-curreat-of their true love. ;  Seyton? first saw Christinein, the ball-room, effulge nt in beauty and, hazppiness.: A.,womani is never so -irre-. sistibly beautiful :asa wienL-she lovves and- looks upon. her lover. He was by her:side, and: her beauty and: her thiappinessf were-at their zenith#. So: was his. After the-; first: dance,-Seyton was introduceQd# to her- by the lady, that he;-had rescued. Of:couue:she had&. heard ofi:,th-e wonda fio. feat ofrsetrngt and aou rage; !' :   HTE -LPWR. ,    33, and reflected- the admiring looks of this remarkable, person. Till now, Seyton had manifested no particular inter-, est in any one of the throng :of beauty, and fashion. present. He C:was polite to all.; complimentary "to many, but concentrating his attention upon none.:. -His courteous manners, his ready, wit, -his unbounded knowledge, made him, the: observed of all observers. He had begun to be regarded as altogether uaim-, pressible. The blandishmentsof fashion and beauty and wit were entirely lost upon him.  But now "-a',. change came o'er the: spirit of his dream." Surprise was his first expression, admiration the second.. iHe gazedc upon her beauty with an eagerness which sur- prised and distressed her.   Then, his look softened into wonderful sweetness of expression, and a gentfle. and respectful admiration. Nothing is so grateful to' the pure in heart, nothing so likely to win a woman's love.  Presently she turned to engage in the dance. I watched him as his eye followed her. I   saw the benign expression, like that of: an angel of light, fade away. I saw  it replaced by one ineffably sarcastic and; scornful as he looked   upon her lover.  The changes in his remarkable face reminded me of those  dissolving: scenes in -which. there is presented to our, view a  picture: of the richest hues, and beautiful design. Presentlyit, melts before your vision, and is replaced bya. shapeless ruin, or an arid waste, Fromc day:,to :.day: Seyton took every -opportunity to  do the agreeable to our heroine. She, all unsuspi-   34      LEGENDS 'OF THE S$WTi. cious, relishing in ai high degree his taste and wit and knowledge, was delighted- with his society The: idea- of his becoming a suitor for her love -never, at ,that time, occurred to her pure imagination.  Her apparently accepted. lover was suddenly sum- moned away, on account of the extreme illness of one of his near relations. -No positive engagement had yet been effected, but it was manifest that their hearts were pledged, though neither had in words plighted their troth. Just before the hour of his departure, he drew her aside for the purpose of avowing his love, and' asking the pledge of hers. She heard him with extreme emotion, returned the pressure of his hand,: received his farewell kiss upon her lips without chid- ing him, but was incapable of words. Just then they were interrupted, and he tore himself-away. After the departure of Langley, Christine was, for the first two or three days, scarcely seen except at the table. She avoided the ball-room and was rarely seen inr the parlor, evidently shunning attention. This justified the general supposition of an engagement. -.At her mother's commnrnd, however, she::again shone forth in the gay circles, but she avoided :particular attentions, deporting- herself as- wouldh have done a married lady in the absence of her lord. :  :  Seyton, however, and with the mothier's approval, found access to her side:,and it was impossible that ihe should not iwin her atentiotn. Aon^ nmfner o refiied and geintle; wit so .ready-sparklintg andt'pure; '"itiotw,- ledgeso comprehensive and' interesting, counl4dot,'efaeil- *            A,    Isfim 'UTSU PR ;U       35 to deeply interest one so susceptible to all these accort-  plishments as, Christine. - Besides; whenever he ap-- proached her, whenever his piercing eye wa. upon her, she experienced an: influence, mesmeric perhaps, which penetrated her inmost soul. She was like the charmed bird under the: eye of the serpent, spell- bound; and incapable of -flight.. It was impossible .that his looks, his words, his elo- quence should. not be remembered in his absence.. What a wonderful, what a fascinating person, she said: to her mother- and sighed profoundly. These assiduities. bntinued day after day, the same  gentle, unpresuming, insinuating tone, giving effect to words of eloquence and poetry.  Alas! around the pinions of this charmed spirit the enemy of her soul was casting, thread by thread, unseen, the web which was soon to make her his help- less victim,-struggle as she might. She made one effort to escape the snare-recalled the image of her absent lover, and, conscience-stricken, confined herself -to qher chamber. But the tgmbitious mother rwasnot content, "Chris- tine," she said,' are you aware of the impression you have :made op. thedistinguished--the prince, as I may with truth style him.' "  "And if I have, am I: atliberty?-are not my affec- tions, engagel' "Your -' troth is not plighted, imy dear, by- any distinct declaration" ^"Yes, but :I allow-ed him-to . infer- 4it, and. ta leave me with that o vie ti .; .I  . . ,  .   ,      '   f6   6  LEGBEV  OF TW ,SO UT!I. - 'Consideri, my dear Christinte;, hat an- opportunity to acquire position, wealth, and I trust, happiness,. I there a: woman in Am-erica who wotald hesitate. You are free, my dear, and perhaps may never see Langley more. '  Again she trusted- herself in the presence of the eharmer, again,-with thtilling inflfuence, he renewed th-echarm, again the'-spell was established. S eyton pressed - his suit with ardorand' eloquence. Need. I say what was the result? ,The next day the magnificent equipage of the prince was at the door, and Christine and 'hr imother, escorted by Seyton, rode abroad. 'From this time they' were seldom separate. In-his ;presence' sh-was happy and cheierful, made soby the eloquence and irresistible-ardor ofhis :love, but, when alone, conscience awoke and tears and sighs gave evidence of its stings. On the, third day -after the new betrothal, young Langley returned. ' His eye, radiant With the joy of love -nd confident hope, sought the object of his admi- ration. Almost the first person on which hisvision fell, was his beloved: Christine hanging upon the arm of Seyton, and, with ear inclined, :listeniig with mani- fest. delight to his breathing thoughts and bdirning words; "Christine-!" he-exclaimed, '"my iiOhsfine!" She started convulsively atthe 'voice, but instead"of respodinig, becae pale palend 'voieiless,:tembiingand so paralyzedi that-she-fell iMtto the ars6ff Seyton  Langley rushed -forward to support her, buit -the powerful arm of Seyton put him aside. "What is all ;  . '*   IJ ..UL2JWR..         37 this?" he cried, ,^.f Qhristine, are- you not true to me?' "Her silence retpies. to you,".. aid Seyton, , as she averted her face and allowed him to conduct herr to her cottage.:;:  .. .. Langley remained for a moment speechless .and spell-bound, thrn rushing. to ,eyton, as he returned from the cottage.,-"-What means. this,". said he, "are you not aware, that the love of, that. young .lady is pledged to me?"' "I am. aware; that- it is not,"said he. "'Tis false," said Langley, and aimed a blow at his. enemy. Quick as lightning, the other seized-the wrist as it .desenaded, and held itas in a vice.- In vain Langley truggled to disengage it.-  After holdig. him; at arm's length for amoment; and mastering the other wrist, he presently hurled Langley from. him with a force that sent him reeling from his presence,     I . -'!Cease .thiL ungentlemanly strife," said he, "there are more becoeing methods," Langley was not slow to comprehend. He retired, and in a -few minutes, a note was presented to Seyton by, one of Langley': friends the . purport of which; may well be imagined, -he next ^mornng, ai day-break,E they met ini a retirtd ,spot 'ear what, is termed the Lover's Leap, Pistols were  e-e weapons, the distance ten paces. They took their positions. Seyton was firm as a rock, and his fierce  s fixed on his enemy. Langley, passion.... .'- ,.    3$     LRGEZ#DS O    SOUTLH Before the word. was given Seyton whispered with his second. At the dropping of a handkerchief both fired,     .  Poor Langley dropped, as if shot through the heart, and ei .without sense or hotion. "Fly," said Lang- leyS:E'econd, txyQ ol have slain my friend, and you will presently be arrested," "I shall not fly," said Seyton, "nor is the silly youth slain.'. My pistol was simply charged with powder, as my second will aver, and the report of pistols, too much for his delicate nerves, has struck him down. You will search in vain for a wound." They opened his dress-';hey searched his person. No wound was found, no drop of blood, no perforation of his clothing. He had, indeed, been struck down by some mysterious influence; he- breathed slowly, he recovered his conw sciousness, and looked around witha bewildered air. "Where am  I?'" said he, "and what is all this,- Ah I I rememer," said le, as his eye fell on the stern look of Seyt on. "Am I wounded?  "o" said his second, "you fell at the report of the pistols, but are not hurt." "Then an I forever disgraced; better I had been shot through ,the heart..- Load the pistols and plate us again!" "'Thatm  nt be," said his second, "your adversary's pistol was merely charged with powder, as his second Ydeclares. You are the challenger, he has exposed his person to your bullet; ajd he alone can -demand another : fire." ".Which I do not," said Seyton, "therefore take away the- silly   WAHTE LPHU   "'     39 youth, and let himr ieiber,6t"*hat I have given him his worthless life4" Upon this Seyton, and his friend waled a-uietly to their lodging. -tangley was s -e'i no mor&.!;+  The particulars of the -duel, of coursi td, and moost persons praised the magnanimi ty". ofeion, while they, spoke with pity and contemipt of his un- happy antagonist. Christine did not leave her chamber for several'days, and when'she did, yielding to the wishes of her mother and the importunities of Seyton, alas! 'how changedli It seemed almost impossible that a few days, unat- tended with any acute illness, should have effected' such a result. The lustre of her eye, the fullness and bliom of her cheek, the joyous and sprightly expression of her face, were gone forever. Let us hurry through this concluding and painful portion of our narrative. The marriage of Christine and Seyton, which soon followed, was as private as possible. Seyton would not consent to marriage or benediction by clergy. They were, therefore, united by civil process. The bridal party left the hotel early the next morn- ing, and in the most mysterious manner. Their equip- age was at the door at early dawn, before any of the lodgers were abroad. The bride and groom (walked toward the sulphur spring, the carriage slowly follow- ing. - It was understood that the" city of New York was their place of destination , bi -rleve', from that   40     LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. moment, has any one who saw, or knew them, at the White Sulphur, seen or heard of them since. The waters of the spring, the day after their depar- ture, were so turbid-and ihighly charged with sulphur- ous gas, as to be undrminable, -- A cynical: old bachelor;: present remarked, "that there, "was nothing unusual or -mystical -about it.- That it w"as no uncomon thing for a lady to marry and go to the * ***." :          .                 -   -.*       ; "EGBND OF THE WE E       PRINGA. WHEs you have sojourned for a time at the White Sulphur, fail not to visit the Sweet Springs. These delicious fountains are about seventeen miles from the White, the road excellent and'the scenery magnifi- cent.      . How aptly is this lovely spot termed athe "Sweet!" Sweet are the waters, sweet the air, sweet the valley, sweet the mountains; but sweeter far the naiads of the place, especially when issuing from the sweetest fountain in the world. The valley of-the- "vSweet,"t, embosomed in these t"mountain's blue," is almost the exact counterpart of the valley of the White Sulphur. It is like the happy valley of Rasselas, out of which he was a great fool fpr scrambling.  The soil being exceedingly fertile,-the herbage and shrubbery are the most luxuriant and deeply- verdant that you ever beheld. The walks are shaded by the sugar, ;maple, -the ,most beautiful. forest-tree in Ame-. rica- It- is- no wonder that the sugar tree should imbibe' sweetness in this delicious spot. 4A*    p4A    .LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. But the hotel! This is one of the finest in America- not so large as that of the White Sulphur, but admire ably adapted. The chambers are spacious and airy. The parlors are what they should be where every- thing is "sweet,"--the dining room is-weil, I cannot say; for I was so occupied. wlith my delicious dinner that I did not observe. While in it I exercised but one sense, that of taste; :but -a sick gentleman, who had no appetite, informs me that it is elegant, The proprietor of this noble establishment is Oliver Beirne, Esq. of .whom it is enough' to say that he is a true-hearted -Old Virginia gentleman, and if the rising generation would not have the rae- become extinct, let them take pattern after him. The host is Mr. Carroll, well known as a hotel keeper in :New York and Baltimore, and all who have sat at-his"board' will e6ocur with me in saying that no hotel in Amereia is better served. It is truly astonishing that, in suchea far-off region, the wishes and wants of so many should be so perfectly supplied. The water of the Sweet Spring is highly dharged with carbonic acid,-slightly with iron and medicinal salines. tt is almost- identical with the Seltzer of Germany. Invalids drink these waters wit h the: hap- piest effects, especially after the use of the White Sul- phur. The spring is exceedingly- eopioii and: ia ther- 'mal, f the   a re of 74 degrees, and' itpptie4 the fineist batth, ' pe rhaps, in tfhe'-wofldA. :Thr:t'-is for the gebtleii metin d anlotherf6r theIadieis each;'of some sixty by thirty feet. 'The depth is fiVe fe^feid i       ^ '    &ffEET SULW  I ',      43 the .water. a   s  ypid - a y the. carbonic' a-id bubbling from i copiously, The fixed air excites the skin in the most agreeable, d salutary manner. Relating to thesw pools there is a legend which must not be allowed toc becme ^"to dull forgetfulness a prTey'" .Shall the Rhine, shall Baden .Baden have their legends and ours -be forgotten? Since none worthier offers, I will myself relate it. On one occasion, when: the luxury of these baths was being enjoyed, an audacious youth clambered upon the high wall which separates the ladies' bath from that of the gentlemen, and struck with dismay, he lost his footing and fell plump into the ladies' pool. It is easy to imagine the consternation, but, in the twink- ling of an :eye, he became enchanted, (thus far I am ready to swear to the truth of the relation,) and was changed into a water-newt, or spring-keeper, which ever since has been occasionally seen lurking among the pebbles which form the bottom of the pool. His little wicked eyes are ever looking upward and ever open, for water-newts have no eyelids. But yet the friends of this presumptious youth are not without hope. It has been revealed to them that whenever he shall touch the foot of a maidenl who never dreamt of love, he shall be instantly disen- chanted. But alas! ten years have elapsed, and although he has nibbled at the corns of hundreds of damsels of from twelve to fifty, he still remains enchanted. A ast: will not some nun-some sister of mercy-repair to the place and restore him to his ,                     s44 S  LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. human form? -Some delicate ladies are reluctant to bathe in this pool on account of his supposed presence; some .are totally indifferent about it, and many -absurdly regard the legend as a mere fiction. I say "absurdly" because, of all the metamorphoses of Ovid there is not one which is better authenticated.   IV. "EGEPD OF THE': MA-M MOQT-H.--CA VE. SOME twelve years ago I visited the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky,.next to the Falls of Niagara, the most remarkable natural curiosity in America. These vast -and vaulted chambers, formed by some terrible convulsion of nature, seem as if formed for the nocturnal residence of a race of Cyclops' or Tit- ans. So vast are the caverns, and so profound their recesses, that no living person has ever explored their utmost depths, or determined their ultimate limits. I engaged the services of an experienced guide, and, that I might commence my exploration properly instructed, I visited a very-venerable person, living near the cave, for the purpose-of obtaining any infor- mation, traditional or learned by himself, that might give interest to my researches. - At first the old man appeared reticent, and annoyed at my inquiries, but, "When he learned that I took an interest in legendary and traditional lore, he gave me his confidence at once.  I have lived, said he, in the vicinity of these cav- erns, till age has impaired my memory of recent events, but left the impress of early occurrences more vivid than ever.: I rarely converse with the'idle per-   "     LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. sons who visit the caves, knowing that what I might have to communicate would be unappreciated or received with contempt. You, however, manifest an interest which justifies my'hope that I have a listener capable of appreciating and believing. When I was' a young man, more. than sixty years ago, these caverns were visited once, a year, at the same season, by a venerable Indian--the last remnant of a powerful tribe. His head was white as "Apala- chian snows," and .his person so shrunk and wrinkled that he appeared more like an exhumed muriny than- a living being. At each visit he entered these caverns, not for idle- observation, but for some aryste- rious purpose kno%;n only to .himself. He ggenerally; spent twenty four hours in the earth, and, on issuing, was seen no more till the anniversary of his riturn. At length,. on ithat which proved to be the last of his visits, I accosted him as he approached the mouth of the Qave,*-and in the most gentle terms I could employ endeavored to win. his confidence and to learn the object of his; yearly visit to thelrec sscs of the Mammoth Cave. Arresting his steps, he turned upon me, with a look of surprise, and appeared to search amy countenance for the motive which prompted me to interrogate h im. -... Lives- there, said -he, one of the pale fcerewhp.!  - any-other feeling than hatred to the red apli nd a desite tOll?: ..;They havetit is true, allowed met as often as- the sun returns to the northern forests, to re- visit theIhaitnta of' my childhood, and to enter those-   M'AMMOTH CAVE.-         . 47 caverns into which my people were driven by the mer-  ciiess cruelty of the pale faces. But, old and decrepid, they fear .mea not, and that they see tht I am about to mingle gmy withered frame-wih th e earth.  There 'was a time,' said he, -with indeseribable pathos, when these mountains, these valleys, these rivers, these forests were-ours. The red deer and the bison, in countless numbers, roamed through the fields. The Great Spirit gave them to us as our focks and herds.. 'We destroyed them not for the pleasure of destroying;, as does the pale face. We took only what was necessary to our wants, "At. length' the destroyer caeme. His vast- canoes brought from the rising-sun, far beyond theflight and the visiQn of the far-seeing eagle, men armed witththe thunder and lightning of the storm, and, what was far more fatal t tthe red man, the deadly oison of the fire-water.- They brought also pestilence unknown before. It would appear that the Great Spirit was angry with our unhappy race, and had armed and sent ambong iu; for our destructionn, the relentless children of the spirit of evil. iThe bratest of our tribes fell like unresisting grass before the unsparing weapon of the destroyer. Wariors '-and women -the helpless old, and the feeble young, fell before their unsparing vengeance. They  R called us savages and not men, and bec)us^e wef-eebly-attem ted to :defend ouri wigwams and oir h uniting grOind they ilew us with the same   48        W LE OF ZTHESPOrUTIH. spirit with which the. red man had slain the..,.olf and the panther.              - The bison. and "the red deeri terror-struck by the thunder of the pale  faces fled to the broad fforeats of the west. Many of our race preferred-,death to the abandonment; of the graves of .their ancestors and lithe haunts of their hildhood, and perished in battle.- 'The last remnant of my once powerful tribe,.comrn- posed of braves tried in a hundred battles, were at length driven. by the. countless multitude of 'the :pale faces to this spot- on which we now stand. Shut in-on every side, their escape seemed impossible. At length the oldest -Sachem called aloud to his, tribe, -My braves I we have done all. -that the- Great Spirit has' given us strength to do. The enemy surrounds .us on every side, and we must perish. But let us not give to the cruel pale-face the delight of beholding. our mangled bodies, and singing their war songs over our remains. The Great Spirit has opened the earth for our reception 7-let us plunge into its, bosom where we may perish without giving the last t riumph to our foes. - The Sache'm strode forward and 'entered :the -mouth of these caverns. All followed, and soon the earth had swallowed the last" remnant of our, tribe except my unhappy seif-a boy too feeble for, battle -or for flight. I was spared, perhaps, because to spare me was more cruel than rto kill. '       . ; . Strange; to tell, there are among the pale faces some that-are kind and-good.. Some of -these gave-me-shel- tei and food, and I grew to be a man, never. forgetting   'th-et alghteroft mf-:iace, ortheir'entranbe in theie 0 gloomy caverns, there to perish and be for:tt6f a f]i  ' "Alimy'life. Ifiive bee aiosutdCist adid; wanderer. e ausdE- ireifiiOMthio -orf zl brave,.l- e'teimi'n'e:' iter e' aaexplore thie awful chamtiber.- Fi,'m thaitiimA;: year; I hae e'repedite my visitsand exlotdai tder- deepesetrecesses.: Wh at I have there di'aisoveed, he - Great- Spitit:forbids 'm6 to reveal. ; -     -    -   - - &  ' This is s thel-ast visit -that I 1-al! ever tmake. to the tobmb of -my tribe. I:shail enter, and :you will see me ano^more. -      .  ;"Having thus spoken, 'heturned his ' feeblesteps to the mouth of the cav':d inI Wtas preseitly lost to View. Never washfe :seen to issue again or to repet his visi. It may well be imagfed t: t this' narration otf *A veneable b ienid 'greatly :inreased the interest of my explbra;ib --        r\ t - I procuid th best guidet as I sttd, that could be had, a"id providedi'fyel' f with ever thig which mightfcontib'Ue to my;safe and thoroi0h :lptioti. I tfiniished :yiel witih :fod-as I miiht require, and was- esp la6y- barehl- tx procure t 'beest fla- beau ihii ctid-) c taied Ith war aihii Ikikb 'frema's' :h-nitaiffti/ng -;:lag q& uanty rp ' o;l, so ,e  a' ad-ti by'reioving- :it;M I couidat a i y time replenish it from a bottle which- carried in. ,my S Siveirial s ng^ .il-ed -theoslr of ho-' oppor- tdsndi^andied     i i^t- tg-    tib     LEGE9   OF- THFt-SOUTH. I shall not tiere describe what has been: viewed and deicribedl by a thousand'tourists. My purpose was to -explre beyond the'utmost-limit of foriier explora- tionnno't for. tihe' : purpose 'of signalizing myself as a tourist: blut to' satisfy. :a/i-:- insatiable curiosity.- The feeling--the faith -which: iimpelled e, -ou;may term- superstition if you pleaset accept the imiutation t We- traversed, with -ordinairy initeest and attention, the ante-chambers of these dark and silent caverns, but I soon left behind ma -the :company with f Wom I entered, and with my especial!guide, hurried n th tthe utmost limit of former exploration. Our progress was sometimes diifficuilt from the narrowness and 'rugged- ness' of our path, rendering it necessary to aid the feet wivththhe hanid,'and-, ith our torches extended before us, to aniticipate bur steps with the utmost care. - After toiling onward for nearly two' hours it became necessary to rest and refresh ourselves. Those Who entered with us were left far behinad and piobably never reached the point atr-which we rested. - With renewed' strength and unabated interest, I soon resumed my toil, and after what would have seemedI to b6eas day's journey; under the sun, we at last came 't:o the dark :and stygian "stream which: flows sul, leniy through' these awful caverns*- its depth equires a boat for: further exploration. ..'This river is about eight miles from the mouth 'of:the- caerti. fts waters are generally limpid and wholesome.      '  ' ':A boatman that-" onemight' eaasily imaglne to be ":thai t grim: ferrym an thtat poe ts wHite: of," : transferred      :MmOrTH Ca .  us to the further nk.: ':No water weed, -no cress, nor moss, cafrpets. thebanks ,of this cimmerean stream Not even .the. fat ., e-that ,roots itelf-in ease on Lethe. wharf,.".can erruggle io eience,.  Neither .v egetable a-or :air :m life is developedin these dark abodes, exept..that in: theastream are found a small species ofeyeless fish. This is a fact of great interest:.to the:.naturalis', Eyes cease to exist where their offices can never:be exercised. After progressingsome distance beyond the stream, none remaining ;with me but the guide,w e came to a pointwhere. my -,conductor :arested my- steps. . : .na raising my torch, I saw on ,the'rocky wall before me, written in chalk, "Siste Viator Il Traveller Stop." M-y Iguide-o beyed the mandate, and refused to proceed further. Beyond this, said he, it is perilousiin the extreme to progress. A brave and inquisitive young man, .who . rashiy attempted- to explore beyond this point, fell, afteradvancing -afepw yards, into a fathom- less abyss. We made every attempt to recover him in vain, though his piteous groans were heard for many hours.  When  I intimated to my guide mysdetermination to proceed, even. at the risk of. my life, he seemed re solved toarpsistvenbpy +,my rash  terpriseT,  When he' saw. h ow determined was s y purpose, he Wassob lged to yield, and proeeade to give :inStruc- tions that might contribute to my:.safety, He: gae me h  large-.piece i f chalk- andr linstruicted me ' to: fze the wall-with an arr pow , pointing outward, whenever   "EGENMODSa OF' T-., SOUTHr, I made-a turn. - -Never, said-he, make a step without carefully exploring the surface with your torch, and never let it leave your grasp. : I made an arrangement with him and the grim fer- ryman, to- meet me at- the--river :on" the next day at noon,..to conduct me out of the: cavern. I had with me oil enough to supply my flambeau for twenty hours. I had also boxes of matches in case of accident.  Beyond the point where I left the guide, I soon dis- covered that the way was difficult and perilous in the extreme. The cavern was here a mere vertical fissure in the rock, furnishing no floor for the foot of the explorer, and threatening him below with its ponder- ous jaws. I was obliged to clamber along by stepping first to right and thento left, supporting myself by one hand against the wall, while I carried my torch in the other. ,      "  At length I passed this terrible strait, and entered another vaulted chamber, where the floor was' level, and progress easy. - I moved on with a-free step, but, forgetting the caution of my guide, my foot encoun- tered an object so abruptly that I had nearly- fallen. Lowering -my flambeau to discover the impediment, I saw prostrate before me, a human form. It was clad in-a deerskin tunic; the feet were, enClosed. in mocca- sins of the samA, material. - If held the flight close to the face,;-which was upward, and viewed it withamaze. ment. 'There had.' apparently been no putrefactive decomposition, but merely a mummy-like- desiccation. deop.    MA TfS ' C^S. ,53: The ftawny-skin Was drawn -tightly. over the bones: of the- face, gSo ass to present ba hideously- grim and repulT sive appearance. The skin--and muscles-of the;-whole person Were- similarly -shunlt-and withered. The hair, which -was- long, white, -straight t'and- coarse, partially covered his head, --and-d- rested upon the neck [and shoulders.     - I saw at once, -tha-t there:lay Ibefore mew the vener- able Sachem whose visits to the cave had been' de- scribed:to me. --On the last visit witnessed: by my informant, he had probably penetrated- to- this po6int, and, actuated;t by the instinct' of -the wild jbeast; which prompts him to hide his remains in the darkest- recess that he can penetrate, he had here composed himself for d'eath,             -     . The reader may well imagine that my interest in these caverns, and their legendary lore,.was not abated by this discovery, or my confidence in further revela tions impaired. ... On the breast of the mummy, suspended by a string from his neck, there -rested, a piece of bark from a tree, on which was inscribed what seemed to be two of three hi'eroglyphical characters.: This I:removed. for preservation,-,and threw it around: my own-- neck for its safe conveyance.      ;. - '  I now passed -on -to: survey- the walls of this vast ,apartment, and to search its avenues. . .. :Nearly. opposite- towhere -I entered this :chamberj, :I found ^a- gallery - leading. -onward. , Here again -the cavern great ly mnarrowed, and my progress' became 5*   '54     LEGEND$  F PTHM- SOUTII. diffiult and perilous. I proceeded, however, wih the utmost caution' carrying my torch before, and ex- ploring every step. Presently I came to a chhsmi apparently perpendic- ular and fathomless, directly in my way. I carefully examined its walls, for such projections as I might use as steps to circumvent this terrible abyss. While thus exploring, grasping the projecting rock with one hand, holding the torch in the other, and trying the projec- tions with one foot, suddenly the rock on which my weight rested gave way, and fell into the abyss below. I was only saved from immediate destruction by grasp- ing instinctively the projecting rocks with both hands, and in doing so, unconsciously relinquished my grasp of the flambeau, when, horrible to relate, it fell into the chasm below,  I was left in total- darkness, clinging to fragments of rock which might, at any moment, give way and precipitate me into the abyss into which' my torch had fallen. At first, I dared scarcely move, lest by trans- ferring my:weight too much to one or the qther part, its support might :yield;. Terror, and the exertion which I was obliged to make, -were exhausting my strength, and I almnost gave myself up to despair, when .a ray of iight from -the' chasm below attracted my attention. Peering over tith abyss, I saw that this cheering ray c ome from my own torch, which, my eye being more sensitiv from the previous prfect exclusion'of light, I saw still burn- ing on some shelf of rock, or the bottomi of:the; well.   - aMAMMOTH CAiVE.       55 Recovering slightly from the paralysis of despair, I prqoeedede to test the firmness of my footing, and hay- ing found that I stood securely on-both feet,.I took from my pocket' a box:of matches and a newspaper. I then struck a light, and setting fire-to a broad piece of paper, let it fall in-to the fearful well. It descended slowly, buoyed up by the ascending current, caused by its combustion, and illuminated the walls of the shaft. The rocks which constitute the walls and floors of these caverns, are limestone, and are stratified hori- zontally. "Wherever, they are-broken vertically there- fore, by any convulsion of nature, they present rugged and shelving margins. In this profound well, or nat- ural shaft, I discovered that the fractured rock pro-  jected' on every side, and presented precisely the appearance of an ordinary well dug for water, rudely walled up with stone., Such wells, I was aware, may be without much danger, :ascended and descended, the stones being used as steps.. :-The desperate. expedient therefore, of descending the shaft, and recovering my flambeau, which still burned below, occurred to me. I was aware that, if I reached the bottom in safety, my return might be impossible; bWt then, if I remained where I was without: my light, death from starvation was equally certain. - . I at once commenced my descent, relinquishing one foot-hold a  ond e a"efu lly feeling for another below. I found nto prejeotiot for my foot, butwas able to insert it in a-treviCe pf the rock, the margins of ;which were firm-:. Finding that it would bear Iy, weight, I disen- i K    56      LEGENMb3 O-ktE-  SUTH. gag'ed the other foot, and repeated the same process. At the same time -I was clinging to the rock: with my han ids*. Thus -Iv continued, -slowly- and cdutiously to proceed, my progress being les perilous and less diffi- cult as I proceeded, because I approached'nearer and nearer to the light of my torch, -whicih burned below . Whein I had readhed within- ten feet of the apparent bottom, I grew more bold and rapid in' my progress. I grew less careful in testing my foothold, trusting too mutch to the 'projecting- angles of -the-rock. ' This; im- patietnce had 'well nigh effected my destruction. :A- fragment to which I transferred my weight with a too sudden and confident impulse, gave -way under my foot, so/ also did the rock to -which -I clung with myn hands, and I was instantly precipitated to the bottom of the well. Fortunately, I was so near the floor that the shock was not fatal, nor- did it fracture or dislocate anyuof my members.:'- The debiis of the crumbling rock, how- ever, was precipitated upon me in quantity. My torch, beside which I fell, was-eXtinguished by the-mass, and *I was again in tota:r darknless. -I groped :for its handle  among the ruins, and fortunately disengaged it.- -To re-light it with miatches, which: I carried with me; was not difficult; and -I wass able to'dAetermine my position. .                   .. - Fortunately, ,tihe shelf on whiech my toreh lay, was almostgcontinuous with -the- -bottom of+^ lowr- cavenr I advanc'ed irltho it w-ith! ;catutiouds- step, and found it 'to resemble in every particular the: vaulted-'chambers   : MA1MMaOTH CCAfE.5 -     7 which I had traversed. In relation to them, thiia-wAs a -vast cellar,. .  'By, this .time I had come to be extremely fatigued,?- stiffened and sore. from. great musoular -effort, and from the shock of :theI fall -I found, on looking at my watch, that the night was well. advanced, and here in this .*double night .of darkness and shade and silence," I felt my senses oppressed and drowsiness overtaking me. Conscious of the need of rest, I took a little food and drink, -and raking together the loose dry. earth. for a pillow, I lay down: to. rest, fearful of no intr usion. No natural cause could disturb- my repose, but, as to the supernatural, the frame of my mind was promotive of no sm all concern,.   , Through the camera of my brain, strange visions were flitting and, among them were most conspicuous, the form of the withered mllnmy, and. the tall and noble figure of the Sachem who conducted his- tribe tod their sublime death in these vast and solemn catacombs. I slept, I know not how long, when at length I was roused, by a touch upon the shoulder,. As I waked, and looked upward, there-presented itself to my! aston- ished gaze, the tall and commanding form of, an Indian chief. My ;flmhbeau.}whic h - IhAd fixed' in the earth, and lefthurning, threw its light upon his-, face'. : The figure rinained a motionless asdif it. had been cut out of the 'solid' rock. The expression '.was more. in sorrow than in anger,." more- that-of :settlaed and clnm'-reproach, than of vindictive feeling.    5.8 .    LEGENODS OF. TH-E SOUTI. -The but, of what!seemed, to the his-. lance, lightly touched my shoulder, as if to arouse me I-..I gazed  upon'- him. f/or some- moments. without moving, not -ter- rified, as one would suppQse,;but struck with amaze- ment,. The awful silence was, at length broken by the mysteriou/s Sachem. Pale .face-l, saidhe, in sepulchral tones, why come you' here to disturb., the -last resting place of the chiefs of the red men. Are. you not sat- isfied that your cruel warfare -has- exterminated us from the surface of the earth? must you follow us to these chambers of .death to scatter our ashes? : But that I see on .your- breast a badge which indi- cates that thou art, notg the foe of the red, man, I had plunged. my lance into, thy. heart, and . thus have pun- ished your intrusion.. I would not, said I, utter a false- hood to avert your:spear, -but Ican truly delare. that I. have ever been the friend. of the red .man,.-though powerless .to do him good., It was my interest in :the fate ofi; the Indian, and. tradition in regard to the self-. burial of youritribe, which drew me here.  Stranger, said the chief, with solemn air, the race of the pale faces are the offspring of 'the Evil Spirit, but some: are othe sons --of Peace- and Truth. Follow me, and you shall see what you seek to, know. At his bidding I arose and-followed. After travers - ing . a long .alnd--winding,: gallery, wet entered:'a :vast chamber, more . lofty and capacious .:than -I had- yet seen,- After advancing into it a fewsteps -h lstopped. and turned ,uponr me, .. Behold, -said he,: the -power and-   - MAMMOTH CAVE.-         59 goodness -of -the-Great Spirit. ',Here rests the last remnant of -my powerful tribe.; I raised my! torch above -my head, and peered into the gloom before me:. At first I saw fiothing, but soon, the eye becoming- accusto'med to the dim reflection, strange figures came forth from the dark back-ground, which was before me. At first, I saw obscurely,. human forms reposing on -the floor of the cavern. A pale, unearthly light assisted that of my flambeau, and then the tableau was complete.- Covering this vast chamber, further than the eye could reach, lay- the warrior tribe, in their panoply complete. Supine- with their hands crossed upon their breasts, with their faces turned upward, as if-- acknowleding the-presence of a superior being, they lay; like the mar'ble effigies of. the knights of old upon their sarcophagi. - So-life-like, though motionless and silent, were those warriors of the past, with each his tomahawk, his bow and his quiver- by his side, that- I looked to see them rise in battle array. Presently my conductor turned upon me a stern and reproachful-look. "Behold," said he, "the last remnant -of my-race reposing here on the -confines of the- spirit world, at last either to return to avenger their wrongs on earth,- or to pass to their happy hunting- Wgrounds. .- OurSeers; taught .by :the:Good Spirit, foresee in the dim' shadows:of the. future, great and terrible events, ini .the course, of; which the red man-may hate oppor- tunity to recover his own, and- re-possess the -fair- va- leys and hills from which he has been so Cruelly driven.   6.0     LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. Stranger pale-face! listen to the voice of one stand- ing where he looks forward into the world of spirits, and backward upon the- affairs of earth. ' The wrongs of the red man shall one day be redressed. Though the Good Spirit may delay his vengeance, it is sure at last to be visited upon his enemies. 'When the pale face came from the-rising sun to these our happy shores, he was at first feeble--he needed and sought our friendship. We said to him, "Welcome English."' When winter came, and his food was exhausted, we fed him with our venison and our corn, Yes, we fed the exhausted wolf that' only needed strength to pursue and destroy- us. When the pale faces had multiplied in number, and, from the fields which we gave them, procured their corn, then began the slaughter of our race. We were hunted from' hill' to hilhl, from valley to- valley, like those beasts of prey, the wolf and the panther. Do you not know, pale face, that your people are now engaged in exterminating the last remnant of our race? The warior,- the -squaw and the papoose, are alike the vic- tims of their rapacious cruelty. Will the Great Spirit forever delay? No I I foresee the approach of the avenger. When their enemies grow weak,"the wicked and the cruel divide the spoil. Then like beasts of prey they turn and rend each other. Thus shall it be with the cruel pale face. The bear of thie North shall wage war with the panther of the South, and terrible: shall be the conflict. Of .               .        AMM- -e OTH CAy. C E6I  They of: the North shall, prevail. The young -war- riora of the South shall perish-in battle.- Their cabins shallbe burned over the bheads of their old men; their wives ,and their children, and their country shall be desolated  Thus, for a time, :the. strife -shall cease, and: they shall smoke the calumet pf peace, but never willthe deeds of the cruel oppressors be forgotten, for never will they cease-to oppress while power remains. .-; The injured sometimes forgive, but those who injure, never. They ever :seek to destroy those in whose memory dwells the recollection of their crimes.: Years shall pass. The mother of: the South, -with the milk of her breast, shall impart to the iifa-nt of the cradle the memory of her wrongs. At-length another conflict-shall- arise,-more terrible than the. former.: Nations from&-the rising sun shall make war upon-the conquerors, and   then shall:the Southern panther rise from his lair, and avenge his wrongs .  Go back, pale face! to thy people, and proclaim to them the prophesy of the last of:the Sachems. Turning, with slow and solemn  step, he conducted me back to the place where I had reposed. Her stood on the-spot- where .I had: first)' seen him, and motioned to me-to resume amy-position of repose,: which, exhausted as. I :was,. I proXptly did, .and again ;slept-slept -I know not how long.      . ,   A ,.When T-: awoke my -torch had- burnt out, and the darkness was profound. I  had the means, however, of 6   Q63    .LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. supplying it with oil, and re-lighting it. On looking at my watch, I found it had run- down, and I had- no Toeans. of determining, how long I had been in the caverns. I speedily made my way to the well which T had descended, Now- occurred the last and- most terrible peril-z-the. ascent of the well; I secured to- my back the stock of my flambeau, by means of strips of my handkerchief, which I tore in pieces, so that the flam' beau blazed above my head. Proceeding with the utmost care, and testing'care- fully every foot-hold, I accomplished my ascent, and once mbre stood upon comparatively safe- ground. I safely made my way along the galleries which I had blazed, and at last stood upon the brink of the dark river..' Here I found my guide and the, grim fer- ryman, almost in despair of mej for they had patiently waited for nearly four hours beyond the -appointed time              .   "EGEND OPF THE HO T SP IN S OF VI R- GINIA.   - ' 'V. THEERE is probably no part of the world in which thermal and medicinal springs are more abundant and remarkable than in the mountainous regions of Upper Virginia. From the fact-that many' of these springs are hot and others charged with sulphur, it cannot be doubted that these regions have been at some remote period the subject of volcanic commotions. The Hot Springs of Bath County, Virginia, are among the most remarkable of those which justify this remark. The water of these springs is of a tempera- ture above 110, and, as all such fountains are, copi- ous and perennial. For bathing purposes, therefore, the temperature is decidedly hot-not, however, near the point of boiling, as is that of the Hot Springs of Arkansas, but too warm for bathing without being tempered. The reputation of these -baths, in the treatment of chronic rheumatism and its sequelme, and in chronic  gout, is abundantly established. But this lovely region has other attractions, which' entice to -these resorts the lover of the picturesque, as well as those who seek rational pleasure and a satlu brious air. Mountains and valleys and rushing streams,   "     LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. diversify the landscape, and furnish scenes on which the eye dwells with increasing delight. Nor is this beautiful spot destitute of its mythical and legendary history,  If there is -any region on earth where     . . "Satyrs and Sylvan boys are seen, Peeping from their allies green," it surely is this. How the surprising facts relative to the origin of the Hot -Springs have been transmitted to me, I shall not at present reveal, lest I be charged with betraying spiritual confidence. If the narrative, when completed, does not wear the semblance of truth, why then, receive it only as a myth. I intend, however, not to be incredi- ble, and I trust my readers will not be incredulous. I hate a skeptic-one who believes nothing but the evidence. of .his . own fallacious senses.- How vacant would be the mind of the man who treasured up as true only what he' may have seen, heard, or touched. After all, if the philosophy of Bishop Berkeley and Mr. Mill be sound, the productions of: the imagination are just as real as are the facts furnished by science or history. They tell us that the idea of all these things may exist in the mind, and'yet nothing objective pre- sented to the senses. This' is undoubtedly true in cer- tain disordered states of the understanuding. Recently, in reading a most interesting novel, my pleasure in the perusal was every now and then greatly P                nd thngrJ   nHOT SPRINGS.         65 impaired 'by the continual recurrence of the conviotieon, that after all, the facts related were all untrue, mere fiction and nonsense. Plain, dull matter-of-fact com- mon sense., was constantly ,saying to me, "don't .be shocked at the terrible -murder of which you are read- ing, for it never occurred."--"Don'.t waste your adm i- kation on that damsel so bewitchingly -described, for she never existed."  I shut t-he volume -fr a few minutes, and finally determined to reject,all Ethis, and ,read with faith and interest, for, said I, if the ideal philosophy is true, the world of the imagination is just as true as that of so-called fact, .and a thousand times more interesting and impressive. Some 'people :are so absurd in Their incredulity as to doubt whether there ever existed such an individual  as :Napoleon -Bonparte,.or such a conqueror as Caesar or Hannibal. Some:doubt even whether the witch of E ;ndor ,ever existed. Now, my dear reader, you may receive what I am about to reveal as a myth or a faithful .narrative of facts, just as you please, only, I will reiterate -that I hate sceptics, and believe that they are all going to -- This is .not personal to y ou, my dear readers, ,for, if you have read as far in these legnds gs top hti Jline, you give evidence of faith. Satyrs and Sylphs, and .Nai ds a"d Gnomes, have :ever existed, inm any nook or cornerof .t he wQordI,in ancient or modern times, it is easy to believe that they :m ayI have existsed ,here, the more epqciallyas I shall 6*   "     LEGENDS OF TlHE SOUTI. point out some remarkable phenomena which have been brought about by their agency. The Hot Spring was not always hot, but merely a limpid fountain of great beauty and sweetness. Innumerable flowers drooped over its banks and kissed its dimpling surface, and it was shaded by the rich foliage of the witch-elm. There dwelt in this fountain a Naiad, or water- nymph, of matchless and immortal beauty. The bub- bling of the fountain was her voice, but unintelligible to mortal ears.- Fontinella, for that was her name, was beloved--O I intensely beloved, by a young dryad, one of the minor divinities of wood and dale. His name was Sylvio. Alas, for poor Sylvio! his wooing sped but poorly. The nymph was coy, and her heart as cold as the fountain in which she dwelt. Sylvio had heard her voice in the ripple of the spring, and had once or twice seen her by moonlight, rising in all her beauty, from the water, sparkling with the crystal drops which fell from her person. Naiads, I must tell you, are amphibious. Though they never wander far from their crystal dwellings, they can survive in the open air. Sylvio was a youth of surpassing beauty. Let your imagination, my dear Miss, summon up the image of the most beautiful young mortal that ever you beheld. Sylvio was-like him. At length, one day, when Sylvio was recining mournfully on the grassy bank of the spring, peering   HOT SPRINGS.         67 into the, crystal mirror, and seeing nothing but the reflection of his own beautiful face, he thus addressed her. Fontinella, my beautiful naiad I must I forever sigh in vain, and not even know that you recognise my presence. For years I have sought your love, must I be doomed to perpetual -disappoint-ment? Shall I never behold you face to face-never hear your voice? Presently the waters became greatly agitated-he thought he saw bright eyes flashing through the spring, the bubbling of the fountain became articulate. Sylvio! she said, distress not me and yourself by your importunities. I love you perhaps as much as it is possible for me to love. We naiads are cold and impassive, like the fountains in which we live. We rarely marry, and never have our repttations been aspersed except, most falsely, by one Ovid, a poet of antiquity. Go, my dear Sylvio! console yourself with theelove of some wood-nymph, more congenial -to your nature and-sentiments, and think no more of me. If we were to marry, you, being a dryad, and the offspring of- a gnome,* could never live in my -element, though I might breathe in yours. She ceased, and not all the eloquence of grief anrd love could elicit from her another word of response. Sylvio, broken-hearted and despairing, returned to his forest-home. As, listless and dejected, he reclined * .," Gnomes are elemental Spirits, supposed by the cabalists, to inhabit the interior of the earth, and to be guardians of quarries, mines, springs, &c.," including undoubtedly oil wells. 2              . "   68-      LEGENDS OF T  E SO UTH. upon a 'bank'of -flowers, his lmother, -who was a gnome, seeing Iis -unhappy condition, exclhimed, Alas! my -Sy:viol! whuat profound ,sorrow is it that oppresses -thy fgentle i;heart. Reveal ito your amofther the caus-e of yor grief, a nd perhaps -she can alleviate it. AlasI! my .mother, :not ,even you can c Omfort me. TFor:a long time I .have been a suitor for thle!love -of iFonfinella, ,the beautiful water-.ny-mph. .She has at length finally:rejected -my suit. She -will anever-leave her cool and ,delicions ,fountain, -nor evd the; son of a- 'gnome, -and I am n -despair. What! said -the gnome, -does she ,presume to scorn -my beautiful boy, because he is the son 'of a -gnome? Who ever heard of such conceit and aaudacity in a pitiful pollywog. Perhaps she is not aware -that I can -dry up her puddle in a moment, -or make the place too hot for her. Alas! mother, said :he,. do not speak so -reproach- fully of her. She has acknowledged .that -she loves -me, though she will not abandon herdelicious fountain to become my bride. I would be willing even to be metambrphosed into a -water-newt, as was the unfortunate mortal at -the -Sweet, for the sake of being forever -near her and po play around those tiny feet. !Hush, my son, said she, leave every-,thing -to .ne, soothe your senses on this bank ,of poppies; but, :-in the morning, at early dawn, repair to the fountain of your love, and you shall witness that which shall make you happy.   -NOT SPRINGS.        69 The gnome departed, and plunged into the recesses of the earth, all the avenues of which are open to her progress; she descended to the very sources of those springs which rise to gladden the surface of the earth- down even to those regions of interior heat, where vapors are imprisoned ard 'ever exerting their expan- sive force to reach the surface of the earth. With her magnetic divining rod, she cleft the crust of the earth at the precise point required. A limpid stream of boiling, bubbling water, gushed through the very bottom of Fontinella's spring. Then returning to her sylvan home where her boy slumbered, .the gnome smote the earth with her rod, and there immediately gushed forth a fountain copious enough for a hundred naiads. In the morning, at peep of dawn, Sylvio, anxious and curious, hastened to the spring, and what do you think met his astonished gaze?- There sat Fontinella, on the bank of the seething pool, now crowned with- a cloud of vapor. She was clad in a mantle hastily formed from the rushes and sedge-grass which grew around. Her head was crowned with a willow wreath, and there she sat "mingling her tears with the torrents that-boiled as they flowed." The moment she saw Sylvio she uttered an: excla- mation of surprise, and stretching forth her tiny foot, she touched the water as if desiring to leap in, but she instantly drew it back, with a cry of pain. Sylvio rushed forward to-her relief, and seizing the little foot, covered it with kisses, and cooled it with his tears.   7J      LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. She no longer shrun-k fro-m the touch Vof the beautiful dryad; she allowed .her head to rest :upon his shoulder. Alas! said -she, Sylvio! some cruel enchantress has destroyed my beautiful home, and I am houseless. Say nao ,so, my beautiful .Fontinella, come with me, become my bride, and occupy a fountain even more dehlcious than was this. She -obeyed, and as he conducted her to her new abode, he considerately and modestly averted his look on account of her remarkable and insufficient costume. 8he reached the home of -Sylvio, and plunged into the new fountain, never again however, avoiding the pres- ence of Sylvio. In short, they were marri'ed under the green wood tree. Satyrs, and sylphs, and fairies, and naiads innumerable, attending the wedding in costumes more varied and strange than those of the last fancy ball. Excuse me if I say, my fair readers, that they became the parents of a numerous tribe of amphibious sprites, which, under the glimpses of the midnight moon,:are sometimes seen flitting about those sylvan retreats. But, the fissure which admitted the boiling jet into the naiad's pool, was never closed, and thus originated this thermal spring, since that period under the aus- pices of the goddess Hygeia.   I. SOTiAMB. ULAx No part of the world, not even Paris during the Exposition of '67, ever congregated more heteroge- neous specimens of the human family than does the White Sulphur of Virginia., Not only is every nook and corner of' our own vast continent represented characteristically, bub foreign climes here exhibit their nationalities. As. is revealed in one of our legends, not only is all the earth here represented, but even the subter-mundane sphere. That mysteri- ous being who figures in one of our tales, as you have shrewdly suspected, ascended from that region, using the upward current of the Sulphur Spring as his motive force.* It was in July of 18-, that there fell under my observation, amid this throng of visitors at the White Sulphur, two very remarkable persons-a lady and gentleman.  They were both from   flew England. Arcades, ambo. As in duty bound, we first introduce to our readers our heroine, Miss Jerusha Plumley.   She rejoiced- in thatown of Barkhanstead, Conn. as the place of her * How happy-amn I to redeemthecharacteorof thi lovely spot in regardi to the quality of. its visitors. For, one goblin damned, that haunts these halls and bowers, there are at least a thousand angols. - Ifyou doubt'me, visit the ball-room on the occasion of. the next. German.   72      LEGENDS. OF THE SOUTH. birth and early training.  Whether Barkhanstead rejoices in her remains to be seen. Jerusha's age was some thirty-five, "or, by'r-lady, inclining to two score.' Although her image is vividly impressed upon the tablet of our memory, how shall we essay the descrip- tion of this remarkable person?  Jerusha was es- teemed beautiful, especially by her mother, but, as proverbially there is no disputing about tastes, this statement does not satisfy the reader. I must first, therefore, endeavor to describe her face divine, as graphically as I can.  The-reader may regard all those features which we do not describe as perfect and constituting the beauty claimed for her. Let us begin with that most conspicuous feature of the human= countenance, the nose. Without a nose, the most beautiful face is a hideous object. Our her- ine was not deficient in regard to this feature. It struck you at first glance, and would literally have done so, had you been too near. Sterne's stranger returning from the promontory of noses, where he had procured one of the "goodliest," would not have, impressed you more. It was one of the aquiline form, slightly retrousse, or upturned at the extremity, which form had been ac- quired during her tour of the South. The organ was so gracefully thin, that when she stood between you and the light, it was translucent, and even the bright- ness of the opposite eye was seen through it. One of the most remarkable things about it was the extreme tension, of the skin which covered it.,   SOMA1NAMB ULAJ. ' 73 The integument appeared to have been made too short for it, like a small stocking drawn tightly-over a foot too long for it. .            t Not less remarkable was the extreme mobility of the organ, as compared with other noses. When her face' became excited, in the utterance of her impas- sioned eloquence, it exercised surprising contortions, comparing small things with great, like the proboscis of an elephant.  This motive power wonderfully enforced her expression. When she turned up her nose at an audience, or an individual, it was an expression of scorn that was withering and irresistible. We speak of the upturning of the nose as an expres- sion of contempt. The upturning of Jerusha's probos- cis was an utterance of scorn, which not the most stolid could resist, not even the lower house of Con- gress.   Equally expressive was the compression of her nostrils, and the aversion of her face, when she would affect disgust. The complexion of this remarkable feature was sub- ject to- remarkable   vicissitudes. At times it was pallid and diaphanous, but when she was excited, and especially after dinner, it exhibited a roseate tint, as if it had stolen the color of her cheeks. You may con- sider it a beauty or not, according to your taste, but it shone like a lustrous carbuncle. Her lips, and especially the upper, were affected by the same shortness of integument which- pinched her nose. It had the effect, of retracting, especially the upper lip, to such an extent, as to display-to great 7   "EGENDS OF THE SOUTH. 74 advantage a magnificent set of porcelain teeth and gums, which did great credit to the artist. Her chin was sharp, upturned and slightly hirsute, as the botanists say, giving evidence of her masculine qualities. Her figure was fine, with some few exceptions about to be made, and which you may think detract a little from perfection. Her head was thrown backward, giving prominence to her chin, the result of the con- stant wearing of spectacles. This posture -was the more attainable from the length and extreme tenuity of her graceful neck. Her shoulders were high, ren- dered so by the patient shrug which she ever exercised when contemplating the follies of the world. In her walk she affected, perhaps displayed, much grace and, dignity-except in a trifling particular. She was very tall, which perhaps was the rieasoi why her knees (if I may be allowed the expression) were, as she stood, not a little angular. Her feet were of the useful pattern, broad and substantial. A, circumstance which detracted slightly from her grace in walking- her heels largely diverged, which eaused her to cut a little, as the jockeys say, as she steopped. The appendagesof her feet, were, -:- but, siste I stop audacious pen! you have no right to reveal any thing which female costume does not ordinarily -display. We have described her foot. "Ex pedle Herculem.' A good naturalist does not require even thus muoh to construct the whole animal. A tooth is sufficient, 'but whether one of Jerusha's porcelains would answer the   -SOMNA-BUA.       -  j purpose may be doubtful. It might, perhaps, puzzle Cuvier or Prof. Owen. Her gait was exceedingly graceful, with the small genuflexual exception which i havebefore made, and the fact that, in walking, she labored as much with her arms, as with her -.-lower extremities, giving evidence that her quadrapedal ancestors were not very, remote.* I must not omit to notice Jerusha's voice, which was one of her most audible characteristics. She had dis- ciplined herself to addressing a turbulent and inatten- tive audience, and this she effected by following the. ;example of Demosthenes. She addressed the surf at Cape May, during a whole season, imagining a turbu- lent audience before her. When she addressed restless and reeusant hearers, it was powerful indeed, almost amounting to a shriek, "ear-piercing. as the wry-neck'd fife." A little audacious miss, the daughter of a lady visitor, compared her to the insect called the "praying prophet," (mantis ecclesiasticus,) often seen on a leaf, rearing itself in a most threatening posture. Our heroine had one mental quality, without which: no man or woman was ever great, and that was, an irresistible will. Jerusha wag never "'put down" by -man or woman, never felt herself to be vanquished. She was wonderfully fluent of speech, her, vocabulary being well supplied with words as hard as flint, which *It will be observed that 'we adopt the Darwinian theory. '   76     LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. she threw at her auditors with irresistible force. She never spoke for half an hour, without moving her atudience. She appeared at the White Sulphur as the champion of woman's rights, and challenged all comers. The other, not less renowned, Arcadian, alluded to above, was from Boston, the Athens of America. His name was Zebulon Mather, undoubtedly a direct des- cendant of the great Cotton Mather, that powerful and implacable enemy of the Devil, Indians, Witches and Quakers. The leven which inspired that fierce apostle was transmitted to his descendant. But "O tempora  O mores!" you have become greatly changed, and Zebulon's genius had to seek other fields of glory, but his spirit was the same. We must introduce Zebulon to our readers, but- in truth, our powers of description have been so fatigued and exhausted by our portraiture of the immortal, Jerusha, that -we feel ourselves inadequate to the present task. We will endeavor to be graphic, but a few: words must suffice. Zebulon was not tall, though he appeared so because of the length of his lower extremities, and the brevity of his sack coat, which was cut away behind in a cres- centic form, so as to be a very ineffectual veil for that portion of his person usually covered by it, but you- might have thought this of little importance, as there was indeed nothing to veil. I know not how to convey my meaning more delicately, than by saying, that he   SOMNAMBUVL. A7 would have been a very unsuitable person for any sedentary avocation. The same audacious miss who criticised the p ersqon of our heroine, was heard to say, that he looked' for f" the world like a Shanghai chicken deprived, of his caudal plum age.* Zebulon had a countenance geaerous an4 open, for his mouth extended nearly from ear: to ear, with the corners turned downward, the opposite of " 1' homme qui ri," His eyes were remarkably prominent, but were over- shadowed by eye-brows bushy and long. The expres- sion of these eye-brows gave wonderful effect tohis eloquence. They gave him "the front of Jove him- self to threaten and command." When he scowled attention was compelled.  When he frowned, ah! "who durst smile when Zeb'lon bent his brow."  His. nose was of the sniubbish order. (I do not like such noses, but I am a faithful historian and cannot supply the deficiencies of nature.) The great field for -the exercise of Zebulon'sgelnius and eloquence had been the abolitiin CcaSe; b ut, alas! slavery was at an end, and .althoagh-he had ,nt lost his thunder, there wases nothiqg left for our Jupiter Tonans to hurl .his :bolts at. .HiL " ocqcuapatio being gone," he fell into a profound melancholy andaI feax that he was sometimes tempted to lament -that bWoli- tion was accomplished, till the bright idea occurred to him of extending his benevolence to another race, and *We have seen fit to translate the real expression of the, yqongdy  ("with his t-1 f--rs pulledout,") into more comely phrase.   78      LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. to become. the first and sole originator arid advocate of a new and glorious enterprise. - What this was he shall set forth in his own words when he comes before the people. Zebulon was now about forty years of age. Some years before, he had been ordained a preacher of the congregational denomination, but had deserted his flock for the glorious cause of abolition, and was the brother-in-arms of John Brown of blessed memory-, and was now " marching on," even beyond the enter- prise of that immortal philanthropist, to a new field of glory. Zebulon was a member of the Legislature of Massa- chusetts, when that body declared, by resolution, that by the admission of Texas, the Constitution was vio- lated, and that the Union no longer existed.* The presence of Jerusha and Zebulon at the White Sulphur, as might have -been expected, created a great sensation. Their striking -personal appearance and remarkable costume excited observation and comment, especially when it was announced that these renowned apostles were to address the visiting public on the great and important topics of the day. I lament to say that many of the visitors of the White, because of education and culture, were not qualified fully to appreciate the eloquence and topics *We believe these resolutions have never been repealed. Ought not Massachusetts to be reconstructed and restored to the Union and her politicians included in the general Amnesty Bill? 7*   SOUMNAMBLA. 7. 79 of our Arcadians. They had seen them, however, and were curious. It was announced and placarded everywhere, that on Wednesday evening they would address the public in one of the halls of the place. It was understood that they were not in alliance- their topics were entirely different. Jerusha was to hold forth on the subject of Women's Rights; Zebulon was to speak upon a topic altogether new and original, unless possibly suggested by his knowledge of Hindoo faith and customs. The hour at length arrived, and the two Arcadians appeared on the rostrum side by side. A large audi- ence, drawn by various motives, complimented their debut. I lament to say that, as 'the throng contemplated the portentous movements of Zebulon's eye-brows and the contortions of Jerusha's proboscis, a general titter, beginning with some of the misses, circulated through the audience. At length, with solemn air, Jerusha rose, lead for- ward by Zebulon, and advanced to the front of the rostrum. Throwing her head backward, till her spec- tacles, hanging loosely on the end of her nose, brought the audience into view, she waived her right hand gracefully and thus began. Countrymen, friends and revilers-if, from the per- verseness of human nature, I have any! does my ap- pearance here as the zealous advocate of the rights   8:     LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. and immunities of my sex, commonly denominated the "fair sex," (here there was a slight rustle of applause) require any apology? If it does, you have it in this. Time was when we needed no champions from our own ranks-time was when from the ranks of those that heaven designed to be our protectors, there were many who wandered the world over with spear in rest ready to do battle against any who assailed our honor ot our interests; but alas! the days and the spirit of chivalry have passed, and in the words of the immortal Burke, the age of calculators and political intriguers has succeeded. Women's Rights must be advocated by women themselves, or be trampled under foot. (Here the applause was decided, and a voice shouted "go it Jerusha.")            . Yes, said she, with an indignant frown, I will' go it," and never will I be put down by such as you, ("No danger Jerusha," said the same voice, "nobody desires to put you down, go on.") Here Jerusha cast a look of such ineffable 'scorn into that portion of the audi- ence from which the voice came, that it must have annihilated it forever, as it was heard no more. I come my friends, continued Jerusha, from the east,-from that land on which first shines the sun as he emerges from the Atlantic-from that land on which first beams the light of science and progressive philosophy-the land of new theories, new religions, (including, said a voice, mormonism, freel4oveism and the religion of the higher-law.) It is the voice of   SOMNAMB UiA.           8i New England,* that land which gave birth to Cotton Mather and Wendell Philips, (Here -a voice said, "thank heaven, Jerusha, that you did not flourish in the time of Mather and his victims,") uttered loudly enough to be heard   across the Atlantic, that now advocates the rights of woman. Does any one deny that woman is at all inferior in intellect or morals to those who style themselves the "Iords of the creation?"   Why then, should she be denied participation in the government of the country, and at all events in the selection, by her vote, of those by whom we are governed. Could we not perform our duties as well as do many of the present members of the Senate, and House of Representatives? What is that which you say, my friend on the left centre? "What if Mrs. Sienator Wiggins' baby should cry when its mother was in the senatorial chair?;' Pitiful query! have you never heard, sir, of Mrs. Win- slow's Soothing Syrup, invented by a member of our sex? You had better take a dose of it yourself, sir. (Immense applause.) The gentleman on my right enquires how, if we are all to be occupied with public affairs, so asnot to rear *A French savant travelling in New England, was greatly astonishedat the number of religions of which he heard, and in an equal degree disgusted with the cookery. He saw numerous churches and enquired of his courier, "Of what denomination is that first church on the hill?"It is Unitarian, said he. "And what is that opposite?"It is Congregational. "And what is that beyond?"It is Baptist.--and thus on, till our savant was con- founded. "Wonderful people!" said he, " a thousand different sorts of religion and only one kind of gravy!" r x I         e    1   *-82    LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. our graces into second life, the human race is to be continued? For my part I care not a straw whether it be continued or not. The genus homo, developed originally from inferior animals, has become effete, having now been propagated through many centuries. The principle of development is progressive, and it is not at all probable that nature has made her best and last, effort in the production of man. Hereditary diseases are increasing and accumulating in his physi- cal being, and by and by, the race will perish out, as many other tribes of animals have done, and will give place to a being of vastly superior physical and intel- lectual nature. Something intermediate between men and angels will be the next great work of nature. (Here there was astounding applause, in the midst of which was heard the cry oft repeated, "enough Jerusha! we are convinced, say no more.") You interrupt me in a most flattering manner, my friends, and as you seem to be convinced, I will here conclude, lest I should efface the impression which I have made. And now permit me to introduce my friend and fellow-countryman, Zebulon Mather, Esq. whose name you are calling so loudly. He will discourse to you upon a topic entirely new, developed, however, from the great principle of abolition. Jerusha bowed gracefully and. took her seat amid thunders of applause. Zebulon advanced with solemn step, raised his eye- brows with portentous scowl, and infra-torted:the cor- ners of his mouth in most lugubrious style.   SOMNAMBULA.         83 - And having three times shook his head," "To stir his wit up, thus he said." Kind and flattering friends I doubt not that there are many before me who have heard me address the public 'on the great topic of the abolition of human slavery. But alas!-no, I did not mean to say alas!-human slavery on this continent has been extinguished forever, and measures, thank heaven, are in progress, acting upon the presumption that the black race is comparatively new and more fresh from the hand of its maker, to establish its superiority over the white race, and, at all events, in a portion of our country to subject the latter to its rule. (Here from a turbulant portion of the audience hissings and scrapings for a moment interrupted the speaker.) But Zebulon was imperturbable. -After a moment's pause he continued. But I leave the consummation of the great cause of abolition in the hands of the rulers of the land, and conduct you into a new and glorious field for the exercise of your benevolence. You admit that you had no right to enslave the negro because he was a fellow-being--because he had faculties, sentiments, like our own-bec-aus e he -had senses and perceptions like our own--because he -had eyes and ears, nasal faculties and touch like our own. But has it never occurred to you, my benevolent friends, that this principle ought to -be extended to other races of .animals possessed, at all events, of some   84   -  LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. of the same qualities which mark our own race? Be not astounded my friends when I ask what natural right have we to enslave tEhe horse? Has he not eyes and ears, and taste, and touch, and smell? Has not he sentiments, and affections, memory, and, to a certain extent, reasoning powers? Is he not, in short, a more respectable animal than many of those who enslave and tyrannise over him? What right have we then to tear him from his native pastures where he roams the monarch of the-field, to enslave and subject him to the halter, the bit and the collar?-to compel him to display, even unto death, his amazing speed for our amusement-to compel him to the exertion of his great strength for our profit and our pleasure? Is there much difference my friends between the inhu- manity of the Roman games, in which human gladia- tors fought and fell for the amusement of our race, and the agonizing struggles of that noble animal on the modern race-course? "iHave you no fellow-feeling for the ass, friend Zebulon?" said a voice. Yes, truly have I, said Zebu- Ion, and for the patient ox and for the sheep that mournfully bleats for its liberty. But I hear the Bible quoted as asserting and com- manding the dominion of man over " all the beasts of the field." My-friends! the Bible is quoted with equal force in vindication of human slavery. Have not many divines vindicated the bondage of man 'on the same authority? Here my friends, we are compelled to appeal from the Bible to the religion of the "higher   SOINAMBUL4.         85 Iluw."  Can any rational being aver that religion is the only principle that is not progressive? Shali it remain imperfect when everything else advances? The Old Testament commands slavery, and the New does not forbid it. Therefore both are imperfect and must be amended to correspond to the advancing philosophy of New England. What are my opinions, do you ask, in regard to the poor Indian of our Western wilds? Why, my opinion is, may brethren, that he is a wild beast and must be exterminated. Who is that who asks me if I have any interest in Western lands. Perhaps the querist is aware that I have, and I shall not deny-it, I am a small link in a ring composed of Congressmen and other functionaries, but no one can for an instant suppose that Zebulon Mather-could be influenced by considerations of that. kind. No, my friends, the Indians have no more right to our Territory in the West than have the grisly bear and the buffalo. They must be exterminated by the rifle and the sword, and humanity and the higher law require that they should be put out of their misery as soon as possible.  A murmur of disapprobation at this moment was audible, and caused the orator to pause. Jerusha endeavored to sooth the audience, and to disavow for herself some of the sentiments of Zebu- Ion. It was to no purpose, however. At this instant a soft peach, hurled with the force of a catapult, hit Zebulon .in the eye, and buried itself beneath his huge eye-brow,. 8 ..    8(      LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. '"ncertun, qua pu!ss manu, quo turbine adacta," ,         *  casusne, deusne."* The meeting now broke up in confusion, but Zebu- Ion was no faurther molested. Jerusha conducted her half-blinded brother-it-logomachy, to his lodgings. It will be remembered by the public present at the Springs at this time, that neither of the Arcadians attempted again to address' the people. They each performed a part, however, in a singular drama, the relation of which is the principal object of our legend. Jerusha and Zebulon were lodged on the thirdl floor of the hotel, on the same corridor and in adjoining rooms. This allocation gave rise to some censorious remarks on the part of some of the ladies of mature age; but I assure my readers that there was not the slightest grounds for such innuendos. The arrange- ment of their apartments was accidentally made -by the master of the hotel. . Besides, one glance at these peripatetics would disarm  suspicion in a  moment. Manifestly the ardor of their genius ran not in the vein alluded to. Jerusha, I must inform my readers, was a somnam- bulist, and had been so occasionally from  the age of sixteen. Somnambulists are people of genius. It is the restless and ever active intellect which impels to *For the benefit of the misses who are not up in their Latin; the following free trasnlation of these lines from Virgil, is furnithed, ,Por ever rests in doubt who-threw the missile,"  ",Whether t'was hurled by chance, by -boy, or devil." '   SOMNWAMBUL.         87 action certain faculties, while others slumber; weighty matters on the mind as well as solids on the stomach, rendering sleep imperfect, and some of tthe faculties wakeful. Jerusha was aware of this infirmity, and when away from home, she resorted, to an ingenious expedient to wake herself. She tied one end of her long garter, the good; old-fashioned quality article, to one of her big toes, securing the other end with a hardknot, to the bed-post. Sometimes, however, it happened that she forgot the expedient, as indeed on the following occasion.  : Two or three days after the public addresses de- scribed above, "'twas at that solemn hour when night and morning meet," that Jerusha, after troubled sleep, arose ..-from her bed and, habited only in her night gear, opened softly, the door of her room and, with solemn step, traversed the corridor, descended the two flights of. stairs, and went out upon the esplanade. For a moment she hesitated, and put her hand to her brow.  Presently assuming a determined look she proceeded to the Sulphur Spring. Then she assumed an elevated position, and in her hallucination com- menced addressing a supposed audience. Her speech was brief and solemn, but eloquent and impressive. While Jerusha was thus abroad, it happened that Zebulon also rose from his bed, went out with- rapid step and stole hurriedly along the corridor. Zebulofi was not a somnambulist. I cannot account, for his leaving his. bed, and perhaps. I would not if I could, \    8 8     LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. but I am told that at the Sulphur Springs it is not very uncommon to see troubled spirits in their night gear rushing along these corridors with hurried step, disappearing in the gloom and after a few minutes returning, I desire it to be understood that in this legend, I relate nothing but what is natural and probable, and I therefore demand the confidence of my readers. When Jerusha left her apartment, she' carefully shut her door but did not lock it. Zebulon had left his wide open. When Jerusha returned, it being too dark to see the numbers, and the doors being precisely alike, she very naturally entered the door which, being open, appeared to invite her in. She then shut and locked it, and crept into the bed,-which exactly corresponded to her own in position, and resumed her quiet slumber. In a few moments after Jeruisha was quietly en- sconced, Zebulon returned with step less- eager than that with which he went forth. He went in the dark with precision to his door, and to his surprise, found it locked, and in vain he attempted, to enter. Presently it occured to him;, that he- had mistaken the door, and moved on and tried the next. It opened, to his great relief, and he entered. He had no difficulty in grop- ing his way to the bed, which corresponded in position to his own, and blessing his stars, slipt between the sheets. A certain fragrance, for Jerusha used perfumes, surprised him a little, but did not create a suspicion of an error loci.   SOMNAMBULA.         89 Jerusha was an early bird, and was the first to awake. The morning however, was well advanced, and it was broad daylight. She turned, yawned, and extended her graceful limbs. Then she gently raised her head, and looked towards the window--but, horror of horrors!! what is it which strikes her astonished vision??--a pair of pantaloons, veritable masculine pantaloons, with suspenders attached. Near them stood a pair of men's boots. The other articles of male apparel were all there, scattered about. Her first impulse was, to throw herself back in the bed, and clutch the bed-clothes closely around her. She lis- tened for a footfall but heard none. Again she cau- tiously surveyed the premises. She saw men's coats hanging on the wall,--and-a man's hat,. which she thought she had seen before.  She surveyed the whole apartment and discovered no one. There was no place where any one could be concealed unless under the bed. She listened, she thought she heard a breath, her heart was in her mouth and palpitated violently; gently she leaned over the margin of the bed, and peering under the valance, she saw --- to her infinite disgust ----- nothing, or next to nothing. Assured that no one but herself was in the. room, she arose and surveyed the whole apartment. What a transformation! There stood an open trunk full of men's clothing. A shaving apparatus lay upon the table, and a pipe, redolent with tobacco, was on the mantel-piece.   9o     LEGEWDS OF THE SOUTH. To her infinite perplexity not an article of her own wardrobe was to be found, She unlocked the door, and ringing the bell violently for the chambermaid, retired to bed. The bell was promptly answered by the abrupt entrance of a burly man-servant, with a cup of hot water for shaving. As he entered she uttered a cry of alarm and surprise. The servant was equally astonished-and started back out of the door, which he closed after him. The man was so bewildered, that he paid no attention to her call for the chambermaid. She rang again repeatedly, but no one came. Like Othello, she was "perplexed in-the extreme," and knew not what to do, yet something must be done, and that promptly. ' Breakfast was in progress, and many persons were passing along the corridor. She began to suspect that she was in the wrong apartment, but she could not go forth in her scanty night dress to seek her own, and recover her wardrobe. Necessity drove her to this expedient. She determined to robe herself in the male attire before her, and to boldly go forth. She immediately took an article of fresh linen from the open trunk, and put it on at once. Then she insinuated her members into the pants, and donned the vest and coat. She also adjusted with taste, the collar and necktie which lay before her. The pulling on of the boots was more difficult, but soon effected. Arranging her hair on the top of her head, she assumed the gentleman's hat, and viewed herself in the glass. Her costume was satisfactory. Then she went forth   SOMNAMB ULA4        9I upon the corridor, and-on looking at the numbers, dis- covered she had by some strange mistake, been trans- lated from her own. She recognized her own door, and attempted to enter it, but alas, it was locked and she could not gain admission. She feared to return to the room that she had left, lest the occupaat should return. She therefore boldly determined tolgo down to the breakast table, and after fortifying her stomach, to unravel the mystery. But let us now return to our friend Zebulon. He waked, not till the rosy morning was well advanced. On getting the first glimpse of the apartment he began to rub his eyes, (treating tenderly the damaged one,) as if to correct his vision. Zebulon was astonished but not alarmed. He saw, as he raised himself, a lady's skirt hanging upon-a chair, and upon another a lady's dress. There was a lady's ruffled collar also, and a. lady's shoes, stockings and garters. The room was the exact counterpart of his own, and he was amazed at the change of its contents. He looked round for the fair possessor of these toggeries, but no one was near. He rang the bell violently for the waiter, and he stood waiting in the middle of the room in his scanty night gear. The bell was promptly answered, and in popped a lady's maid. The moment she saw Zebulon, she uttered a shriek and rushed out of the room. He rang again, but no one came. Here was a perplexing di- lemma. There was not a particle of male attire in the room. There was manifestly an error loci, but how could he unravel it, if he remained there, and how   92     LEGENDS OF THE SOUTH. could he go forth undressed.  The idea therefore occurred to him to don the female attire before him, and to go forth,- first, to breakfast, and then to unravel the mystery. He -did not succeed in attiring himself as promptly as did Jerusha. The skirt bothered him, but at length he got into it. The shoes and stockings fitted him well enough. The dress he first assumed wrong side before, but at length adjusted that. He pinned on the frilled collar, and adjusted upon his head the bonnet which was at hand. Thus attired he sallied forth, assuming the easy grace of the sex he represented. He went. boldly down to the breakfast table, and tooli his seat. There were only two or three at the round table at which he sat, and they being new arrivals, did not notice the appearance of Zebulon Bending over his plate he went on eagerly with his- breakfast, but before he had -concluded, Jerusha arrived at the same table. As Jerusha approached she saw, with astonishment, an individual at the board busily appropriating his breakfast, habited in her missing wardrobe. From his position, and the fact that a handkerchief was obliqued tied over one eye, for a moment she did not recognize, either the sex or the individual. Wretch! she exclaimed, you then are the burglar and the thief, who have not only stolen my dress, but soiled my hitherto-spotless reputation. In a moment Zebulon rose and confronted his accuser. A mutual f    SOMANA'MBI UL.  -93 recognition took place and they stood gazing at each other completely dumbfounded. At length Zebulon exclaimed,--Jerusha! you charge me with purloining your female equipments. How came you habited in that male attire which I recognize as mine? At this moment there came forward the major-domo of the establishment, with several of the waiters and visitors at his back, filled with astonishment at what they beheld. The official in a determined tone at length said. Sir and madam, whichever and whatever you may be, do you consider it decent and proper to appear thus at the breakfast table in masquerading dresses? Can you suppose for a moment that I can permit the reputation of this establishment to be thus compro- mised? I pledge my honor, said Jerupha, that whenh I waked this morning I found that my whole wardrobe had been abstracted, and this base male attire substituted for it. I know not what felon has robbed me,-but this I know, that this hotel is responsible. Happilythe wretch stole nothing but my chattels, and although by compulsion equipped in this male attire, I am the same unsullied Jerusha that I have ever been. At this moment Zebulon assumed the position which men take when in profound thought, and when some bright idea occurs to them. He applied his finger to the side of Iis snub nose. I thought, said he, a moment ago, that this house was enchanted, or at all events bedevilled by bad spirits that sometimes have ascended from the Sulphur Spring, but I see now the whole affair.   "     LEGENDS OF THEr SOUTH. Jerusha, you know that you are a somnambulist. You rose and went abroad last night about " the hour when church yards yawn," and beds sometimes give up their perturbed spirits. Just before you returned, I had occasion to rise, leaving my door ajar. You re- turned and, my door being open, you probably mistook- it for yours and entered. When I returned, a moment after, I found my door locked, and thinking that I had mistaken the -apartment, tried the door- of the next apartment, entered and went to bed. You may imagine, my friends, how innocently astonished I was on wak- ing in the morning and finding nothing with which to clothe myself but female attire. This explanation may be very satisfactory to you, said Jerusha. A man's reputation is made of India rubber and recoils to the hardest blow, awhile a- lady's is sensitive to the very breath of scandal. Yes, said the major-domo, and there has already gone abroad a report that the chambermaid saw this gentleman in Miss Plumley's room almost in puris naturalibus, This report it will be hard to overtake, for scandal runs faster than a greyhound. I see no mode in which your reputations can be restored and the credit of the house vindicated, but by an immediate resort to matri- mony. I had rather thought, said Jerusha, of an action for damages. You have ample- ground for such a suit madam, said a Baltimore lawyer who was present. And a   SOMANMBULA.         95 capital case for cross-action said another in the ear of Zebulon. Zebulon, said Jerusha, did you utter the truth when you spoke of your landed interest in, the West? Yes Jerusha, said he, and I may also inform you that, in raking the ashes after Sherman's march, I accumulated not a small amount of silver spoons and other incom- bustibles of value. Then, said Jerusha, I withhold my suit and will assent to the arrangement proposed. Zebulon seemed a little recusant, but a whisper from one of the lawyers brought him to terms. He took the fair Jerusha by the hand and conducted her to her apartment. Their wardrobes were soon set to rights and they appeared in their appropriate costumes. That very evening they were united in the holy bonds of matrimony, a colored lady of her choice acting as Jerusha's bride's-maid.    
         
       
   
