
    ----CITATION----
        Leslie, Eliza, (1787-1858). The Maid of Canal Street, and the Bloxhams .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7074
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The maid of Canal Street, and the Bloxhams 
            
               THE MAID OF CANAL STREET: AND THE BLOXHAMS. BY MISS LESLIE. AUTHOR OP "PENCIL SKETCHES," "KITTY'S RELATIONS," "MRS. WASHNGTON POTTS," O i LEONILLA LINMORE," ETC. COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME. PHILADELPHIA: A. HART, LATE CAREY AND HART. 1851.   Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by A. HART, in the Ofce of the Clerk of the District Court for the Easter District of Pennsylvania. PHLADELPHA: T. E. AND P.'G. COLLINS, PRINTERS.   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. TEA was just over in one of the largest and most fashionable of the numerous large and fashionable boarding-houses in the city of New York. The majority of the guests had dispersed themselves about the spacious and elegant parlors. The chandeliers suspended from the ceilings beamed down upon the marble tables, enabling the demoiselles who were seated there to turn over the annuals, and admire the fresh flowers in the vases; and the gentlemen to peruse at their leisure the evening papers. The mantel lamps darted their rays through rainbow-tinted drops of pendant crystals upon the sofas, ottomans, and lounges, where sat the matrons in all the splendor of silks, laces, and jewelry; and upon young nymphs in costly muslins and exotic flowers, gracefully seated on tabourets; while their swains stood before them, bending painfully down to enjoy the de- lights of that indescribable amusement known by the name of flirtation. In each of the deep windows, half shaded by the massy folds of the rich damask curtains, sat vis-d vis, a youthful pair sentimentalizing in low soft voices. Other couples, who had not yet arrived at either sentiment or flirta- tion, were promenading arm-in-arm; sometimes finding a clear field the whole length of both rooms, and sometimes- being compelled to thread their way among groups of gentlemen who had risen on their feet to talk of the banks. Suddenly a-bustle in the vestibule seemed to announce some new arrival. Two or three gentlemen went out to reconnoitre; and on their return, in- telligence was soon circulated that Mr. Harley Claverton, a distinguished member of Congress, was now under the roof of their hostess, Mrs. Grand- inhall, being on his way home from Washington, the session having just closed.  Also, that Mr. Westerford (one of the most popular boarders in the house) had met Mr. Claverton as he came in, and being his intimate friend, was rejoiced to see him. . Mr. Westerford now appeared in person and corroborated the account; adding that as soon as Mr. Claverton had devoted a few minutes to his toilet, and refreshed himself with a cup of tea in his own room, he would join the company in the parlors. "I suppose this member of Congress is a married man," said Mrs. De Kronk, who had beckoned Mr. Westerford to her, as she sat between two other ladies on a lounge. "Pray tell me all about him." "I can easily do that," replied Mr. Westerford, "for I have known him long and well, First, then, he is a man of worth and talent, and deservedly   10         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. popular in his own district, which is in the upper part of this State. His age is about thirty, though he looks considerably younger. He is now in the House of Representatives; but we doubt not the honors of the Senate are before him. He became what is called a rising young man, as soon as he had left college. Secondly, his family and connections are of what may be called the highest class; or, if the term may be allowed, of the patrician order." "You mean that he is in society, don't you?" said Mrs. De Kronk. "Thirdly," continued Mr. Westerford, "his personal appearance is highly prepossessing. He has a fine face and a fine figure." ' Delightful!" exclaimed Mrs. Mattinley. "Fourthly"--pursued Mr. Westerford--" he is already in possession of considerable property, inherited from his father, who was proprietor of the largest and best estate in his district." "Delightfuller still!" ejaculated Mrs. De Kronk. "Of course, with all these advantages, he is a married man," remarked Mrs. Norbury. "Strange to say, he is not," replied Mr. Westerford. "There is a re- port of his having been most shamefully jilted, in early life, by a young lady who proved incapable of valuing him as he deserved ; and who ran away with a man in every respect inferior to my friend Claverton. When I was at Washington last winter, I understood that he was in great favor :among the belles 'who mostly there do congregate;' and that nets of very fine texture were spread for him, but without any effect. I rather suppose he has become extremely fastidious, and, for awhile longer, will be very difficult to please. I only hope that he may not remain single till he is old enough to make a foolish match." "Men of. all ages make foolish matches," justly remarked Mrs. Nor- bury. "Here comes Harley Claverton," said Mr. Westerford, turning towards the door; Mrs. Mattinley and Mrs. De Kronk, each catching him by a sleeve, and urging him to introduce his friend to them, as soon as possible. Mr. Claverton was certainly a very handsome man in face, figure, and deportment; and his appearance excited universal admiration as soon as he made his entry. One lady, who had been in Paris, declared that he had the air distingud of the Fauxbourg St. Germain; another, who had been in London, protested that he looked exactly like an English nobleman. All agreed that it was easy to see that he had been all his life a gentleman. So many of his own sex were eager for an introduction to the member of Congress just from Washington, that the ladies had for a long while to con- tent themselves with a distant view of him. Mrs. De Kronk now beckoned her husband from a corner where he was earnestly engaged in business talk with an old mercantile gentleman from Boston. Mrs. Mattinley and Mrs. Norbury hastily left their seats beside her, to escape from the vicinity of that species of matrimonial sherbet with which this lady and gentleman were prone to regale each other: the hus- band supplying the sugar and water, and the wife the tartaric acid. "Mr. De Kronk," said the lady in a, low voice, "get an introduction immediately to Mr. Claverton, and then bring him to me." "Which is Mr. Claverton?" asked "the. husband, taking a seat beside her. "That fine-looking man who has just come in, and whom Mr. Wester- ford is presenting to everybody. He is a member of Congress."   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.         1l "Well, my dear," said Mr. De Kronk, "a member of Congress is no great sight. And some of them are not much better than other people, and some not half so good. And you know they get their pay from us; and' many of them for -their eight dollars a day do not give us eight cents worth of work; particularly during the long session." "What's that to me? You know how I despise politics. This man is not merely a member of Congress, but he is rich and single." T "What's that either to you or me, my dear?" asked Mr. De Kronk. "I don't see how either of us can gain anything by making his acquaint- ance.  "Mr. De Kronk, how can you be so stupid, or rather why are you more stupid even than usual? One would think I had no such thing as an un- married sister under my charge. Why did I strain every nerve in trying to persuade Annetta's father and mother to let her come and board here at a fashionable house, if not for the purpose of bringing her into genteel society, and giving her a chance of obtaining such an establishment as would have been quite out of her reach if she had remained at home in Canal street among the tradespeople? Am I to have no assistance from you? Is not it your business to get acquainted, at once, with all the proper sort of gentlemen! Men, if -they have their wits about them, can do a great deal in helping on these affairs." "Yes, my dear, you are very right," observed the husband: "I, for instance, am under considerable obligations to my friend Pullalong, for having taken such pains to get me to dance with you the night we first saw each other at Monsieur Boulanger's Public ---. I remember it as well as if it was only last evening. He said to me, 'Kronk,' says he (you know I  had not then the De before my name),' Kronk,' says he, ' there's a young lady fallen in love with you, one Sally Haverstraw. I heard her just now tell a friend of hers that you were lovely; and that she was dying to dance with you.' '-Is she lovely herself?' said I. SNot so very,' said he.?' "De Kronk," interrupted the lady, " how often must I desire you to stop cultivating that inveterate memory of yours! Half the nonsense you pretend to remember never happened at all." "Oh! indeed, my dear, indeed I am utterly incapable of inventing any- "I believe you," replied his consort, with a sneer, " or of understanding anything either. Else you would not leave upon me the whole burthen of getting my younger sister off." "Really, dear," said the husband, "I do believe if Annetta was only let alone, she would naturally get herself off." "Yes, no doubt of it. 'To some poor lawyer, renting a third share in a basement-story office; or to a poet in a fifth -story back attic: or to a mid- shipman who boasts that ' his home is on the sea'--qhis wife's home, of course, being nowhere." "Those that you describe would be very bad matches, certainly," observed Mr. De Kronk. "And so would a  rich old widower with three or four idle insolent daughters, and three or four worthless dissipated sons: all dating their badness from the hour their father brought them home a step- mother. Or a stiff, hard, selfish old bachelor, expecting perfection in a young wife, when he has not a single good quality himself: finding fault with everything about the house, and making her account to him for every   12         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. sixpence she lays out in a piece of tape or a cotton spool. And then insisting on her giving up all society and living for him alone." "I don't know such people," replied Mrs. De Kronk. "You must keep strange company when you are out of. my sight. For my part I am dis. posed to look always at,the bright side, and to speak well of everybody. That is, everybody that is anybody." "Well, well, my dear," said her husband, "I wish you were always disposed to look at the bright side of me, and regard me as somebody." "You seem in a very pert way this evening," remarked the wife. "You have an answer ready for everything I say. Really this is some- thing quite new."   " "Speak a little lower, my dear," said Mr. De Kronk. "I am to un- derstand, by all this, that you are kindly desirous your sister should make as good a match as yourself?" 'tIhe wife tossed her head contemptuously. "And you want me to help you? Is not that it? I fear I shall be very awkward at the business, and perhaps make some blunders that will spoil the whole. It goes rather against the grain for a respectable man to set himself to match-making. The thing is quite too womanish." "Kronk!" exclaimed his wife, "are you really going to tell me that you will not assist?" "Yes, dear." "Why, Kronk, what do you mean by this behavior.? Somebody has been giving you bad advice. Are you planning an outhreak?" "No, dear no, not 1 indeed. The time's gone by." "How often must I tell you," resumed the lady, " that it is your duty, as well as your interest, to help me in ,all my endeavors to elevate the family? Any fool might comprehend the advantages of being well up in society, and of forming connections in the higher circles." "X May be, I'm not a fool," observed the husband. "Pertness again!" exclaimed the wife. "Must I tell you, once for all, that I will have no such answers. As long as I give up the czounting- house to you--" "The store, dear-the store." "No matter what the place is. I never saw it, and never wish to. I tell you, as long as I deign to give up all yoice in your business con-, cerns-"  .  "It is better you should, dear." i; As long as I never inquire about your bargaining and borrowing, and buyying and selling, and banking, and all such stuff that men's heads are so full of--as long as I let you take your own entire course in these dirty concerns-- " "My store is swept out every morning," murmured Mr. De Kronk, "aldl my desk is kept as nice as any desk I know." "These dirty concerns, I say--have I not a right to expect that with regarld to everything that is genteel, you will do exactly as I please?" , ,My dear,'what is all this about? I am beginning to forget the be- ginning." g! Must I go over the whole again?" I Na, my dear, I beg you will not."  "( Yes, I will. You perceive, of course, that Annetta Haverstraw looks exactly' as I did at her age, a few years ago."       / / i   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.        13 "Meaning that she is a very pretty girl, and that her face ought to do for her what yours has done for you?" "Yes, and much more." "True, Annetta has sweet delicate, features, a well-shaped nose, dark blue eyes, round blooming cheeks, and a little cherry mouth. She ought to make a better market than you have done. Ybu see I am not the least proud of myself, or of any one belonging to me." "Mr. Kronk, what has got into you? You don't seem the least like yourself." "You have often told me, my dear, that I had better be like anybody else." . "Kronk! Kronk!" "Call me Mr. De Kronk always, my dear. It sounds more genteel, You know it was yourself that persuaded me to put the D-e De before my name, and now I've got it, I like to have it remembered. Otherwise I might as well have remained plain Kester Krips Kronk." "No more of this nonsense, but let us, come to the point." "I'll do it at once. Your younger sister, (younger by fifteen years,) Annetta Haverstraw, originally of Canal street, has been taken from her own father's house and brought here to get into genteel company. And we are all to fish for a grand match that will raise the family, and bring us to the speech of great people. You are to be the angle-rod, I the line, and she the bait. Now, who is to hold the apparatus? for unless it is well managed, the whole will flop down, and catch nothing; much less that very fine fish, Mr. Claverton." "Mr. De Kronk, the coarseness of your expressions shocks me."  $ "But that's the idea, is it not? You can't say that I have not caught the idea." "Will you go at once and ask Mr. Westerford to introduce you to the member of Congress, and then bring him directly to me?" "What, must we commence operations this evening? I am really very tired. I have had a most fatiguing day at the store." "No time must be lost. There are several very pretty girls in the house." "Where is Annetta?-Why is not she on the ground to attend to her- self? She is the heroine; there can be no play without her." "True enough, this is no 'time for Annetta to be absent. Foolish girl, she went up stairs directly after tea with Miss Spilbbury, who had met with her usual accident of slopping her cup over her dress. And I sup- pose they are shut up together, while Myra Spilsbury makes a long con- fidence about the people she calls her beaux. I hate that Spilsbury girl. She passes for diffident and modest, because she never speaks a word in public. But, when she can have a private confabulation in a corner, there is no end to her prating. I think I will go and bring away Annetta; and tell her to, put on her pink scarf, and come down. At tea she was rather pale, and really looked like a corpse laid out for burial. white face, her hair parted plain, and not a curl or an ornam I'll make her put a rose or two somewhere about her head. "Yes, do go, dear, and do not hurry back; but Tak&fful! Annetta look as beautiful as she can."  "On second thoughts, I will not leave the room till I h   "         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. introduced to Mr. Claverton. There is no trusting you when my back is turned." "Don't you see, my dear, that the great man is just now surrounded by two governors, three judges, four militia generals, and five bank di- rectors? I cannot breakthrough such a formidable crowd." "Poor creature, how meek and modest you are! And yet I have heard from good authority, (though you never had the grace to acknowledge it to me,) that you are worth at least two hundred thousand dollars."  Mr. De Kronk now thought it safest to obey orders: and after humbly waiting awhile on the outskirts of the group that environed Mr. Claverton, he found an opportunity of plucking one of the militia generals::by the sleeve, and requesting an introduction to the distinguished member of Con- gress. This was immediately done: and in a few moments Mr. De Kronk felt quite at ease, and found himself engaged in a conversation about mer- cantile politics. Mrs. De Kronk then " found freedom" to leave the room and hasten to prepare her young sister for conquest. In the mean time, Mrs. Mattinley, having brought away her daughter Claribel from an ottoman and a group of young people in the back parlor, seated her with herself on the lounge that had just been vacated by the De Kronks. It was in fill view of the lion of the night. Just then it chanced that Mr. Claverton, tired of political talk, said in a low voice to his friend Westerford, "Will you now introduce me to some of the ladies?" "With the greatest pleasure," replied Westerford. And as Mrs. Mattinley and her daughter happened to be the nearest, and the mother made a significant sign, he led Mr. Claverton to them, and in- troduced him to Mrs. and Miss Mattinley of Philadelphia. Miss Claribel Mattinley was fresh from a fashionable boarding-school, where she had learnt nothing, and she was the eldest of four girls who were all receiving the same education. The income left by Mr. Mattinley to his family was amply sufficient for all reasonable purposes; but when Claribel was ready to " come out," her mother discovered that it was very lonely to keep house with only her daughters: so she broke up her estab- lishment, and sold off her furniture. Having placed her other girls as boarders in Mrs. Mascrew's prison-house, she took Claribel (whom she considered a beauty) and set out with her on a tour of an indefinite length; intending to stay two or three months in each of the principal cities. They had already been five or six weeks in New York. When Mr. Claverton was introduced to Mrs. Mattinley, notwithstanding that lady's inclination to be seen conversing with the distinguished mem- ber of Congress, she immediately, like a disinterested mother, endeavored to make him over to her daughter; replying to almost everything he said: You must ask Clribel about that; my dear Claribel's memory is so much better than mine. Claribel can tell you." libel could tell him nothing. 'Mr. Claverton had only to behold expressive face," and he could be at no loss as to the quality O he talked accordingr. Mrs. Mattinley thought it might    t1^^ them together: therefore she changed her own seat to one side of the room, where she could look at them all the time. fspokespoke in a very complimentary manner of Philadelphia, and the beauty of the Philadelphia 'ladies. Miss Claribel Mat- dr   down her eyes, looked earnestly at the flowers of the rich B els carpet, pressed her fan against her lips, and seemed to blush. - .   I   Mr. Claverton spoke of vivacity as being a great improvement to pretty features and a fine complexion. Miss Claribel looked up, twinkled both her eyes, and urew her lips apart so as to show her white teeth. He then alluded to the tasteful style of dress that prevailed among the ladies of Philadelphia. Miss Claribel glanced first at her sleeves, and then at her skirt. Mr. Claverton hinted that the Philadelphia ladies walked remark- ably well. Miss Claribel, seeing a vacant chair next to her mother's on the other side of the parlor, was strongly tempted to evince her ambulatory powers by walking over to it. But she had a misgiving that it was pro- bably better to remain at her post, and be talked to by a member of Con- gress. But when that gentleman eulogized the fine figures of the Philadelphia ladies, she could resist no longer the desire to make a display of hers, and rising suddenly, she said, "Excuse me, sir; I wish to go and speak to mamma." "Shall I have the pleasure of conducting you to her?" said Mr. Cla- verton. Miss Mattinley bowed assent. To be escorted across the room by the member of Congress presented to her mind an idea of something very delightful and extremely genteel; though she did not reflect that, by, walking at her side, he would not have an opportunityof seeing her figure to advantage. When he had deposited Claribel on a chair beside Mrs. Mattinley, 'i-e bowed to both mother and daughter, and walked away to pay his compliments to a lady whom he recognized in another part of the room. "Well, Claribel!" said Mrs. Mattinley. Claribel made no answer, but looked foolish. "Why, when you had Mr. Claverton talking to you, did you quit your seat and come over to me?" said the mother. "What was your motive?" "Nothing particular," replied the daughter. "Really, Claribel," pursued Mrs. Mattinley, in a low voice, " you. be- have very strangely. You have no more policy than a child. Nay, I am sure Mrs. Trapman's little Sarah, who is but eight years old, would know better how to manage on such an occasion. Are you becoming an idiot? Men like Mr. Claverton are not to be met with every day. And he is neither young enough nor old enough to be easily caught. Come, don't look so dull and foolish. Go and sit by Miss Vanpool. Say something; laugh, talk, and be very lively ; make a great noise: that is as much as young ladies ought to make, and perhaps Mr. Claverton may be attracted towards you again." "I never know what to laugh and talk about," said Claribel, " particu- larly to Miss Vanpool, who sits like a statue, and does not understand either laughing or talking." "You had better have staid where you were," said Mrs. Mattinley. "However, we must not whisper 'any longer, for I perceive that imp, the widow Edgcumbe, is looking at us. And only see, Mr. Claverton is seated beside her, and talking as if they were old acquaintances." "I am sure if Mrs. Edgcumbe has Caught him," observed Claribel,' "there can be no hope for any one else."*  "Yes there is," said the mother; "any one who has youth and beauty; (and a little spice of animation beside) ,nay set Mrs. Edgeiiube, with all her arts, at defiance. However, for the present, do as I tell you. Go and; laugh and talk with Miss Vanpodl." ; * About what, mamma?"    j             .    16      ,   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. "No matter. You can easily think of something or nothing. I never myself found any difficulty in laughing at nothing, when it was expedient to do so. Miss Merryweather, with fine teeth and nothing else, is laugh- ing at nothing all the time; and therefore has acquired the reputation of both a wit and a beauty, and always has a crowd of gentlemen round her." "I never had a crowd df gentlemen round me in my life," said poor Claribel, "and never expect to hive; let me look and dress as I will. And I don't believe that talking and laughing will do the least good either." She then, in obedience to her mother, went and took her seat by Miss Vanpool. "Do not you think the room is very warm?" said Claribel, laughing rather more than was necessary. "Not very," replied Miss Vanpool, gravely. "Only see how one of the mantel-lamps is smoking," said Claribel with increased risibility. "It does, smoke," answered Miss Vanpool, seriously.. "I believe I have set the foot of my chair in your dress," said Claribel, removing it with a laugh so audible as to be scarcely " within the limits of becoming mirth." "Thank you," replied Miss Vanpool, coldly. Claribel recovered herself, and paused to consider what to say next. At last, with a very difficult titter, she propounded the questiorn, "Which do you like the best, tea or coffee?" "I never tasted either," sententiously. , 'Dear me, how strange!" (with an almost convulsive giggle). "What {it do you take then?" "Milk and water," solemnly. "How very funny. Do you like milk and water?" (almost choking.) "Not particularly," with increased solemnity. Mrs. Mattinley, seeing that her daughter was exceeding her instructions, and not in the least attracting the attention of Mr. Claverton, now recalled her: particularly as she saw the gentleman in question accompanying Mr. Westerford into the back parlor, to be introduced to some strangers from the south. Mrs. Mattinley, though her eyes were continually turn- ing towards Claribel, had been talking for some time to Mr. Sumbell, a very good sort of gentleman, but by no means a good match; for which reason the ladies were all perfectly at their ease with him, and did not hesitate to call upon him for little civilities and services that they would not have ventured so readily to ask from any man whose attentions were worth having. "My dear," said Mrs. Mattinley to her daughter, "you look fatigued." "No wonder, mamma," said Claribel, glancing at Miss Vanpool. "You have been at very uphill work, I confess," observed the mother. "Try change of air. It is no doubt cooler in the next room. Mr. Sum- bell will give you his arm." Mr. Sumbell, who knew himself to be nobody, gallantly put Claribel's hand within his arm; and conducted her to a seat in the back parlor; and stood over her and talked. Mr, Claverton was handed round to every- body, and performed his part of' \ lion to admiration. There is a great difference in lions. But he came \no more to Claribel Mattinley. The matrons now began to assemble onr\the tabourets that, being placed near the folding-doors, commanded a view of both rooms. To their unani- mous vexation, they saw the widow 3 dgcumbe,.who had slipped imper- ^       R.         ,   qY       THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.        17 ceptibly into the back-parlor, succeed in enticing Mr. Claverton to a seat beside her in a snll corner-ottoman that held but two persons. At length Mrs. De Kronk brought down her sister, Annetta Haverstraw; having made that young lady undergo an entire change of dress, and a new arrangement of hair: and Annetta really looked beautifully. They stopped in the entry; and Mrs. De Kronk sent a servant for her husband to come out, and conduct them into the parlors. "Where is Mr. Claverton now?" said Mrs. De Kronk, in a suppressed voice, and looking about the rooms. "I don't know," said her husband, looking about also. "But you ought to know," replied the wife. "Yes, dear." "There, now, only see--the widow Edgcumbe has seized upon him, and nailed him down beside her. Why did not you keep a better look out, Mr. De Kronk? Where were your eyes to let Mrs. Edgcumbe get hold of him already? There is more danger in one widow than in twenty young girls." "My dear," replied the husband, "I would like to see the man, or woman either, that could prevent the widow Edgcumbe from doing what- ever she chooses. So, I don't know how you can expect it of me. There ought to be a society for the suppression of widows. I have a presentiment that should 1, unfortunately, be left a widower, I shall myself be drawn in to marry a widow. If one was to lay siege to me, what could I do? I earnestly hope that Mrs. Edgcumbe may be married herself before I am again in the market." "Mr. Kronk," said his wife, "shall I send you to the hospital? for you seem to be fit for no other place. Nothing but insanity can excuse the way you have been talking all this evening." "Indeed, my dear, I am quite as sensible as I ever was." "That may easily be; but this new style of impertinence is not to be tolerated. Now, not another word of nonsense, but listen to what I am going to say to you. I will, for once, be positive." "You always are, my dear. Have you anything else to tell me?" "Yes; I don't stir out of these rooms to-night till Mr. Claverton has been introduced to us. So manage it as you will. Come, Annetta, sit down by me." Mr. De Kronk pondered awhile: and, not having sufficient ingenuity to contrive any device by which he might delicately obtain for his ladies an introduction to the great man, he saw no other way than to go to work straightforward. Therefore he walked directly up to the desired object, and said to him, bluntly, "Mr. Claverton, my wife says she won't stir out of these rooms to-night till she has been introduced to you. She is a very plain-spoken woman." "We all know that," said Mrs. Edgcumbe, sneeringly. Mr. Claverton smiled; and his curiosity being somewhat excited, he made his bow to the widow, who had been talking to him about affairs at Washington both public and private4 complimenting him on his speeches, (having learned that he had made some,) and as the Persians would say, beplastering him with the trowel of flattery laid on by the hand of cun- ning. He accompanied Mr. De Kronk, who presented him to his ladies. And the ceremony over, Mr. De Kronk left them and repaired to the centre- table to look again at the evening papers. Mr. Claverton was really much struck with the extraordinary beauty of   18         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. Annetta Haverstraw; and he at once endeavored to enter into conversation with her. But her answers were always anticipated by-Mrs. De Kronk, who was in continual fear lest her sister should reply in some way that would not produce the desired effect. Mrs. De Kronk was, however, very well pleased to learn that Mr. Cla- verton, having some business in New York relative to settling the estate of a friend, intended remaining two or three weeks; and Mrs. Grandinhall would have been charmed to hear how Mrs. De Kronk recommended her boarding-house as the very best place at which he could possibly establish himself during his stay in the city. Mr. Claverton, being somewhat fatigued with his journey, and with talk- ing ever since his arrival, now took his leave for the night: and after his departure, a general discussion ensued upon his looks, deportment, con- versation, &c. The votes were ten to one in his favor. Mrs. De Kronk accompanied Annetta to her room, and remained there for an hour, lecturing her young sister on the best and most feasible means of captivating Mr. Claverton, and circumventing Mrs. Edgcumbe. On the following morning, the widow Edgcumbe, (contrary to her usual practice,) was down stairs long before breakfast-time. She took her seat at one of the windows with a newspaper in her lap, greatly to the discom- fiture of six gentlemen, who came in one after another, and wanted that same newspaper-particularly when they saw that the lady was riot reading it; her eyes being all the time directed either to the street or to the door. After which, Harley Claverton (who, having slept well, had risen early) made his appearance in the front parlor. "Are you looking for the paper, Mr. Claverton?"-said the widow, holding it towards him, as soon as she saw him enter the room. Having thus been apprised of Mrs. Edgcumbe's location, Claverton ad- vanced to pay her the compliments of the morning. He took the paper from her hand with a bow; but knowing that he should have small chance of reading it while in her vicinity, and seeing that there was no lady pre- sent to take Mrs. Edgcumbe's conversation off his hands, he laid the paper on the nearest pier-table, from whence it was eagerly taken up by the gentleman who got there first. Drawing one of the chairs a little out from the deep recess of the window, Claverton seated himself vis-d-vis to Mrs. Edgcumbe, and said a pretty thing about her early rising. "Oh!"-replied the widow--" you know the old song assures us that 'to rise with the lark is conducive to health.' And health, of course, is the greatest of all blessings, for no lady can be beautiful who looks pale and sickly. Besides, all the mushroom-women have taken to late rising." "A most inconvenient practice for them,"- observed Claverton--* I always supposed that the best time to, gather their merchandise was while the mists of early morning were yet hovering over the fields." "Oh! Mr. Claverton! you cannot really take those words so literally. Of course you understand that by mushroom-persons, I mean those who spring up from nothing--such as one longs to trample on, because they are always in our way. And whenever they begin to take a thing up, it is time for society to drop it. Their treading so fast upon our heels is ex- ceedingly disagreeable-for they compel us, almost immediately, to relin- quish fashions that we like, and adopt others that are very inconvenient. Not only the mushroom-gentry, but in our country, all sorts of plebeians   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.        19 show a most annoying disposition to encroach upon the patricians. They seem to be all the time in full chase of us." "But suppose you were occasionally to allow them to catch up with you? Why not in some things, at least, let the higher and the lower orders go amicably side by side? Both classes might learn something from each. other." "Really you make me laugh! What an idea! Society trotting along cheek by jowl with the people. Coach-horses and dray-horses in the same harness. And so, we are to rub against their vulgarity, to give them an opportunity of acquiring a little polish by their collision with us. No -no--it is our duty to keep them at a distance as long as we can. I can truly say, with one of the poets that Mr. Edgcumbe (being a great reader) was always quoting-' I hate the mob."' "I hate mobs most thoroughly,"-observed Claverton. "Who is it remarks," continued Mrs. Edgcumbe--" that there is always a scoundrelism about people of low birth?" "That false aid insolent saying"--replied Claverton-" is attributed to Dr. Johnson, a man who was himself of humble origin, and whose habits and manners (if we may believe his various biographers), never in the course of his long life lost any of their early grossibrete; though respect for his vast learning and his wonderful intellect had obtained for him an introduction into some of the best society that Britain could boast. But the random sayings of great men are not always to be received as their solid opinions. The saturnine Johnson, as well as the mercurial Byron, some- times indulged in idle talk-and both found amusement in mystifying those hearers who sat with open mouth, ready to swallow anything that fell from the lips of the two men, who, of all others, had the most reason to pray, like Job, for deliverance from their friends." "Still,"-persisted Mrs. Edgcumbe--  you must acknowledge, Mr. Cla- verton, that it is very annoying to be brought into contact with the canaille." "Whq-are the canaille?" "' Why--the mob." ", Who are the mob?" "Why-the people."  "Do you mean the American people?" "Certainly." "No people, then, so- little deserve the epithets of mob and canaille; terms which imply a class too low and degraded to be indigenous in a country like ours. Unfortunately we are subjected to large outpourings of this material from foreign countries; but it is not of native growth." "Well, then--by the persons called the people we mean those whom nobody knows.". "I think the persons called the people are very extensively known." "Now, indeed, Mr. Claverton, you know very well what I mean. The people are the persons that have to get their own living." "So must every man in America-in some way or other. That is, he either has done so, must do so, or ought to do so." "Oh! but some ways of getting a living are much genteeler than others. Certainly, mechanics, tradesmen, shopkeepers, belong to the people. Such persons, in short, as cannot be admitted into society." "You must have learnt that word in Philadelphia. What is society?" "Why--society is--the aristocracy."   - 20        THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. "What aristocracy? I was not aware that our republic allowed the existence of any privileged orders." "Now, Mr. Clavertop, I am sure you understand me very well; and this is only to tease me." - "No--I really ask for information." "Well, then--the aristocracy is composed of lawyers, doctors, fash- ionable clergymen, and merchants. By merchants, I[ mean wholesale dealers, or importers." "Suppose a man begins by selling single pounds of tea, and pounds of sugar, and pounds of coffee, in Greenwich street, and is afterwards enabled to sell the same articles by the chest, and the 'barrel, and the bag, in Pearl street. Or suppose another man, after having for some years measured calico and flannel by the yard, in Maiden Lane,!should find himself selling by the bale in Nassau street, or Broad street. Am I to understand that by mounting the chest, or the barrel, or the bale, these same men ascend at once into the ranks of the aristocracy--and they and theirs become enti- tled to visit the families of lawyers, doctors, and fashionable clergymen?" "Now, Mr. Claverton, you are jesting again. The aristocracy of Ame- rica ik a thing that cannot be explained or described." "I believe you." "Still, we all understand what it is. But argue as you will, I am quite sure that the people ought-never to aspire to being received into society ; and society ought never to stoop so as to take up the people. There is always something about mechanics and tradesmen that shows at once what they are. It is perfectly discernible even in their children. For instance, there is Annetta Haverstraw. She is quite a pretty little girl, certainly, and wears very good clothes. But you may see at a glance that her father is an ironmonger, and keeps a shop in Canal street." As she uttered these words, the widow Edgcumbe fixed her eyes stead- fastly on the member of Congress, perceiving or imagining that he seemed somewhat startled. However, he recovered in a moment, and said with a smile- "My vision is not sufficiently keen to have discovered her father's iron- mongery in the beautiful features and symmetrical figure of Miss Haver- straw." ' "I can assure you it is a fact," pursued Mrs. Edgeumbe. "Only go into Canal street, and you may see the sign and the shop, and the very griddles at the door. But really, I ought not to have let the secret slip out; though, to be sure, it is no secret after all. You must not think me ill- natured for telling you. Somehow it was brought about by- my talking of the people-quite unintentionally, I assure you. I absolutely abhor scandal." "It is no scandal to say that a man is an ironmonger,"-observed Cla- verton. "Yes-but it may not be quite right to tell of a young lady being an ironmonger's daughter." "Not if she is a young lady. If she looks, talks, behaves, and feels like a lady, I know not why she should be denied the title." "Well now-to tell you the truth, the Haverstraw family have strained every nerve to give the girl an education. Notwithstanding that her parents are regular residents of the city, diving in Canal street where their shop is,) they have put Annetta to board here, at Mrs. Grandinhall's, that she                    f   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.         21 may have opportunities of making genteel acquaintances, and stand a chance of a genteel establishment." "What does Chat mean?" "Pho!-nonsense-you know very well--a genteel husband, to be sure.  "Is a husband an establishment?" "No--a mere husband is nothing. But he is worth having if he has a handsome house to put his wife in, where she can give parties and enter- tain society. Now these ironmonger folks have sent this girl here under the chaperonage of a married sister, that she may have a chance of seeing something of fashionable life, and making a good matrimonial speculation. You know if she had continued to live with her father and mother, she would be obliged to associate with persons of her own class; and could look to nothing higher in the way of a husband than a respectable trades- man. "It seems to me very extraordinary," observed Claverton, " that her parents should have consented to such an arrangement; for I cannot be- lieve that the plan originated with them." 'Oh! in all probability it was the bright idea of that half-foolish, half- impish Mrs. De Kronk, who forced an introduction to you last evening, because you are a member of Congress. To be sure there are persons whose word is to be relied on, and who do say that, being educated beyond her station, the girl became so puffed up, as to look with utter contempt on her father and mother, and their homely circle, treating them with shocking disrespect, and allowing them no peace till they agreed to put her to board at Mrs. Grandinhall's, and fit her out so as to make an equal appearance with any young lady in the house. No doubt the scheme was planned by TMrs. De Kronk, in the full confidence that her young sister will make a great match, whose honors, and glories, and advantages may in part be reflected on her. At least she looks forward to the pleasure of boasting of sister -tnnetta's drawing-rooms, and sister Annetta's horses and carriage, and sistei Annetta's fancy-balls, and perhaps sister Annetta's country-seat. 'Ihey have been here about three months, angling for half a dozen different gentlemen; but there is so little bait upon the hook, that the fish perceive it all the time, and after playing about awhile, swim off unhurt. You have no idea of the various manceuvres to which women will resort in the pur- suit of husbands."  "Yes, I have,"-said Claverton, with a smile. "Now as for these De Kronks," pursued Mrs. Edgcumbe, " they are the laughing-stocks of the house. To be sure, we take care only to laugh in our sleeves, for he is a money-making man, and the gentlemen say that Kester Krips De Kronk is an excellent name in Wall street. It was im- possible I should ever have seen his wife before they came to Mr. Grand- inhall's; but I have heard their history from the very best authority. At the time-he married Sally Haverstraw, Mr. Kronk was a clerk in a drygood store, where he afterwards became a partner. In a few years he set up for himself in a wholesale line, and took a house in one of the new streets in the upper part of the town, and had De Kronk on his door-plate. But neither fine furniture nor fine clothes could get his wife into the firstocircle, or even into the second. So, on pretext of the cares of housekeeping, and the trouble of servants being too much for the delicate constitution of the lady, they broke up their establishment and took apartments here at Mrs. Grandinhall's to give Mrs. De Kronk a chance of seeing people of fashion   22         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.            I from all parts of the Union, and to enable her to devote her whole time to shopping and dressing, and talking nonsense. In a few weeks she brought her sister here to share in .these advantages, and to look gut for a husband who could raise Annetta (and consequently herself) from the sphere for which nature designed her." The sound of the breakfast bell, and the assembling of the company, put an end to Mrs. Edgeumbe's narrative, every word of which had lessened her in the opinion of Claverton. Yet though he by no means gave implicit belief to her statement, (indeed not so much as it really deserved,) it put him on his guard, and he resolved to be cautious in manifesting any admi - ration he might feel for the beauty of Annetta Haverstraw, and as yet he had observed in her but little else to admire. With regard to the widow Edgcumbe, at the very moment that Claverton found himself obliged to give her his arm to the breakfast-room, he made a resolution to avoid her, for the future, as far as common civility would allow. But when they came to the table, she insisted on his taking a chair beside her; assuring him that the old gentleman to whom that seat belonged never came to his breakfast till after every one else had gone. Very soon Mr. De Kronk made his appearance, with his wife on one arm and his sister-in-law on the other. Mrs. De Kronk grieved to see Mr. Claverton seated so fiar from the places allotted to their family, which were on the other side of a very long table, and much farther towards its upper end. She began to study by what manoeuvre they could, at dinner-time, bring themselves into the neighborhood of Mr. Claverton, or transfer him to theirs. "I declare," said she, in a low voice to her husband, who sat between her and Annetta, " it is very provoking to see a member of Congress lost to ts in this manner, I am certain it is by the contrivance of that hateful widow. You must help us to get him away from her." "I don't know how to set about that," replied Mr. De Kronk. "Pshaw-do you suppose I mean now-this moment-in the middle of breakfast? You are too stupid for anything," said the wife. "Then I am too stupid for the undertaking you have just mentioned," said the husband. "In short, I wash my hands of this whole business; and whatever is to be done with Mr. Claverton, and above all with the widow Edgcumbe, you must manage entirely. yourself." "Why, Kronk! this is something quite new--for you to tell me you wash your hands of anything. Do you take no interest in your wife's sister?" "Very great. Therefore I do not wish her to be made ridiculous." "Kronk!--I am beginning to think of a separation." "As you please, my dear." Mrs. De Kronk, fearing that the above dialogue might have been over- heard, now forced a laugh, and said audibly, "Really, one's husband is in such excellent spirits this morning. When he once begins joking, there is no stopping him-and his answers are always so funny." There was a pause, during which Mr. De Kronk finished his breakfast rapidly, and then departed for his store, leaving his wife and her sister still at table. "Annetta," murmured Mrs. De Kronk, "I would give the world to know what the widow Edgcumbe is saying to Mr. Claverton. I am pretty sure she is talking about us." "Then it is best we should not know," replied Annetta.   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.        23 Mrs. Edgcumbe was talking of them. "Do but look at that girl's bad taste," she said, in a low voice to Cla- verton. "Poor thing! These unhappy parvenues--how much they are always to be pitied! Instead of a peignoir of a neat French chintz, or a cambric gingham, or a white jaconet muslin, and a little simple morning cap, such as are always worn at breakfast by persons in "society, only ob- serve that unfortunate Miss Haverstraw, dressed out in rich silk, with a laced pelerine, and her hair looking as if arranged by a coiffeur, and abso- lutely a ribbon disposed about it.. Really, it would be charity to give the poor thing a hint, and to apprise her that breakfast-dress and dinner-dress are totally different things." ' "Has she lived three months at Mrs. Grandinhall's, and not yet made that discovery?" said Claverton. "( Some people are so obtuse," replied Mrs. Edgcumbe. "And those who have not always been accustomed to finery, and to whom it is rather a new thing, are sure to wear it on every occasion." Now this was most uncandid in the widow Edgcumbe, for she knew perfectly well that, till this morning, Annetta Haverstraw had always ap- peared at the breakfast table in a very neat and becoming dress of one or other of the legitimate articles, French' chintz, cambric gingham, or- white jaconet muslin; at the same time concealing the exuberance of her beautiful hairJunder a pretty little simple cap. In her own mind, Mrs. Edgcumbe rightly attributed the change in our heroine's morning costume to the resistless influence of Mrs. De Kronk. In fact, that overwhelming sister had risen at daylight, and gone into Annetta's room to insist on her making a very elaborate toilette, that she might rivet the admiration of Mr. Claverton. It was with deep reluctance and much expostulation that An- netta yielded to this new folly; and the ribbon which Mrs. De Kronk forced into her hair nearly brought the tears into her eyes. Supposing that she had infused sufficient poison into the mind of Claver- ton, Mrs. Edgcumbe now thought she would leave it to work; and drop- ping for the present all farther animadversions on Annetta Haverstraw, she commenced something that she intended should pass for a flirtation with the member of Congress. Having finished her breakfast, Mrs. De Kronk rose, and passing her arm through Annetta's, conveyed her round to the other side of the table, and stopped at the back of Mrs. Edgcumbe's chair. For the first time, Mrs. De Kronk was so kind as to enter into minute inquiries as to the health of Mrs. Edgcumbe; and then endeavored to persuade her to go to an opening of new millinery that was to "come'off" that morning. Mrs. Edgcumbe resisted, upon the plea that she had never before heard of the milliner in question, and that, in society, there was no necessity of going to openings for the purpose of learning the fashions. This was quite new to Mrs. De Kronk, who was struck silent on hearing it, and wondered in her mind what other way there could possibly be. She had projected this talk to Mrs. Edgcumbe, for the purpose of giving Claverton (who had risen from his chair on their approach) an opportunity of taking a view of Annetta by daylight. This he did, and, addressing her by name, he said something which, with his clear fine voice, had an agreeable sound, but which her confusion entirely prevented her from comprehending. Re- collecting Mrs. Edgeumbe's remarks, he thought Miss Haverstraw's dress was really not in good taste as a morning costume; and he feared that 'there might indeed be a tinge of ungentility about her. Annetta felt as if   24        'THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. she knew intuitively what was passing in his mind, and this consciousness /deepened the color in her cheeks, while she cast down her eyes to avoid meeting those of Claverton. Also, she could not but believe that he was aware of her sister's motive for bringing her round to that part of the table, and for standing there with her on pretence of talking to the widow Edg- cumbe, whom Annetta well knew to be the mortal antipathy of Mrs. De Kronk. Mortified, embarrassed, and ashamed beyond farther endurance, Annetta slipped her arm from her sister's and silently glided out of the room, at the nearest door. Mrs. De Kronk looked angrily after her; and, following Annetta to her room, she took her severely to task for quitting the ground, as she called it, and leaving the field to the widow Edgeumbe. Had Mrs. De Kronk remained down stairs, she would have had the pleasure of seeing that, after Claverton had reconducted Mrs. Edgeumbe to the front parlor, he bade her good morning, and departed to attend to the business that de- tained him in New York. Our limits will not allow us to detail all that passed within the ensuing fortnight regarding the manmuvres of Mrs. De Kronk, the counter-maneu- vres of Mrs. Edgeumbe, the mortifications and' embarrassments of Annetta Haverstraw, and the fluctuations of Harley Claverton's thoughts concern- ing her. We will mention (par parenthtse) that Mrs. Mattinley, oereeiving that it would be a hopeless task to attempt at fixing the attention of the mem- ber of Congress on her own dull daughter, turned her views toward a rich old widower, who seemed willing to marry any woman, provided she was young; and Claribel Mattinley had at least that recommendation. 'The widower did not require much courting--neither did Claribel, and things were soon quite en train. The officiousness and want of tact in her chaperon kept our heroine in a state of perpetual confusion and annoyance. She began to dread the sight of Claverton, lest it should produce some fresh folly on the part of her sister-and at length she took every opportunity of avoiding him. Notwithstanding the coldness with which he received her communica- tions, the widow Edgeumbe persisted in pointing out to Claverton, when- ever she had a chance, every new instance of absurdity in Mrs. De Kronk, also of what she called the entire want of manner in Annetta Haverstraw. Mr. De Kronk summoned resolution to be deaf and dumb to his wife's re- proaches for withholding his support to her plan, as she called it. All this gave ample employment to the observing, surmising, and dis- cussing capabilities f every individual in Mrs. Grandinhall's mansion, from the boarders down to the lowest members of the household. All watche, and all whispered, including waiters and chambermaids. Even Boots had , his opinion. Things were in', this state when, late one afternoon, Mrs. De Kronk came home in greatidiscomposure, and went to look for Annetta, who, she then recollected, had' gone out with one of the young ladies, and was en- gaged to take tea at the house of that young lady's aunt. Mrs. De Kronk then returned'to her own apartment, and rang the bell for a servant, whom she desired to tell Mr. De Kronk, as soon as he came in, that Mrs. De Kronk wished to see him tip stairs. Mr. De Kionk attended this sum- mons, after he had read two of the evening papers (advertisements and alD, and he was proceeding through a third gazette, when his impatient wife rang the bell for the fourth time, and sent him the fourth order.   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.        25 He found her sitting on the sofa, in extreme perturbation, jogging both feet, and wringing both hands. "Why, Kronk!" she exclaimed-" what has got into you? 'Tis most astonishing that you have left off coming as soon as I send for you." "Not at all, my dear," said he. "I have no time to waste with you," continued the wife--" all I have to say is, that a most dreadful thing has happened. Oh! how I wish I had never troubled myself with Annetta Haverstraw." "What! has she refused the member of Congress?" "Refused him! No, indeed-she never had a chance-and now she never will have. All is up in that quarter." "What! is Mr. Claverton going to marry the widow Edgeumbe?" "Kronk! Kronk!-don't drive me mad!" "I knew that woman would get him at last," pursued De Kronk. "'Tis no matter who gets him now," replied 'the wife, heaving a deep sigh--" he's lost to us for ever. And it was only yesterday I felt all the time as if he was on the very brink of proposing. He was actually alone with Annetta, in the front parlor, for near ten minutes. I happened to be going in, but I stopped outside, and stood at the open door, behind which is the long ottoman. And on that very ottoman both of them were sitting. I saw them in the mantel glass, and I heard every word he said." "And what did he say? What was he talking about?" "Why, just then the subject happened to be John Gilpin." "What! that old poem? I remember it very well, because I learnt it when a schoolboy, and spoke it for a speech-- ' John Gilpin was a citizen      , Of credit and renown--'" "Well-you need not speak it now.'* "Really, dear, talking to a young lady about John Gilpin does not sound much like making love. I wonder he did not prefer taking something from Byron or Moore." "Pray, what do you know about Byron or Moore? There's no ac- counting for tastes, and Mr. Claverton may have a fancy for such poetry as John Gilpin, foolish and ungenteel as it is, and all about tradespeople. However, I was glad to find that Annetta, when she did venture to speak a few words, had sense enough to agree with him in everything he said. And John Gilpin might have led to other poems, and poetry brings on love."  "But, suppose there is no love to bring on?" "You've no right to suppose anything. I tell you there was a great chance last evening of his coming to a proposal, if he had only been alone with her a little longer. I felt as if it was to be. I have presentiments of everything. But he had got no further than John Gilpin when, as usual, the boarders began to come in, in the most shameful! manner, and without the least consideration. I begin to think that boarding-houses are very bad places for courting."- "Excuse me, dear; but is it not expecting a little too much for all the boarders to give up the use of one of the parlors to allow Mr. Claverton a chance of making love to Annetta Haverstraw; when, perhaps, he has no notion of any such thing; and even if he has, and really intends to offer himself, 'tis his business to find an opportunity. Depend upon it, when* ever there's a will, there's a way." 3   26         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. "Kronk! Kronk!-I tell you not to provoke me-I have suffered enough already." "Any new sort of suffering, dear?" "Suffering! It is absolute horror! Spite of all the pains I have taken to keep it from him, Mr. Claverton has this day discovered our disgrace." "' What disgrace? I' know of none." "Yes, you do-- Is not pa' an ironmonger, and don't he persist in keep- ing a shop, and living in Canal street? Have I not been urging him, for years, to quit business upon what he has made and retire into the country? He could buy a place quite low, in the back part of the State, somewhere quite off the public road, and he and ma' might live there together ve'ry cheap, as their wants need be but few; and the more they could save, the more they would have to leave us. Parents ought to have some considera- tion for their heirs." "But what was it that happened this afternoon?" inquired Mr. De Kronk--"and why are you so long in coming to the point?" "Oh I I dread to speak of it-even to you who are nobody," "Yes, dear." "Sit down, I tell you, and keep yourself still; and don't make me worse by rambling about the room, and meddling with the things on the dressing- table." Mr. De Kronk sat down on a chair, in front of his ,wife; planting his feet steadily on the floor, clasping his hands firmly together, and looking her directly in the face. ' "Well, then," said Mrs. De Kronk, endeavoring to speak with some attempt at composure--"I went up to Canal street this afternoon to make pa' agree to Annetta's having a beautiful set of pink topaz ornaments, which I saw this morning at Marquand's; and which, as they are the very things for her complexion, would no ddubt expedite the business we have on hand. So I told pa' all about it, and made out a favorable case, and assured him there was no time to be lost, as whenever Mr. Claverton has finished settling his friend's estate, he will begin to return to his own lIome, and it would be awful if he should depart without proposing. Then pa' said that before he went to any further expense in decorating Annetta, he must ascertain what advantage was likely to come from it; and he said also, that if the gentleman's offer depended on pink topazes, it would not be worth accepting. And he talked a great deal of stuff on the occasion, as fathers always do; and frightened me half to death by saying something about coming himself some evening to Mrs. Grandinhall's, and bringing ma' with him, that they might judge how things really were, and see what sort of person Mr. Claverton is, and whether they would like him for-a son-in-law; not considering it sufficient to have read his speeches in the papers. Think of the horror of such a visit. But I gave them a pretty broad hint that they could notdo a worse thing. And then pa' was angry, and ma' went to crying, and I had to draw in, and humble myself by trying to pacify them, and by giving up the pink topazes for the present. Sp when all cooled down, I ventured to stretch the truth a little, assuring them the affair was in so prosperous a train that, if they would only be quiet, and keep out of sight, I'd pledge myself that Mr. Claverton would come to a proposal in less than a week." "What is pledging yourself?" inquired De Kronk. "If the plan fails, do you forfeit yourself to your father, and is he to take you, and keep you forever'?"   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.        27 "Kronk, are you an idiot, quite?"   \ "Not yet, my dear. But where is the terrible event you promised me? As yet I have heard nothing more than usual." "I am coming to it fast, and then you'll wonder I am alive to tell it. Finding there was no use in arguing any longer, and as I had to go to Mrs. Watson's and bespeak a cap, I took my leave, and pa' went into his ever- lasting store. Listen now to the horror of horrors! Just as I came out, who do you think I met? There--even there in Canal street, close to pa's very door. I'll give you an age to guess who it was." "Mr. Claverton! You see I have guessed in half a moment." "Why, what in the world could have put him into your head?" "My dear, how can he ever be- out of it when I hear you talk of nothing else?" "Well, it was indeed Mr. Claverton--looking so particularly genteel, and so like a man that had been all his life in society. I actually gave a start, and then stood staring and motionless. In the midst of my flurry, I looked round in dismay upon the vile rat-traps, and hateful gridirons, and horrid frying-pans that were displayed about the door; with detestable spades, and rakes, and such like trumpery, reared up against the wall. And there, out on the pavement, stood an abominable new-invented stove, bak- ing away at short cakes, just by the door-step. I felt as if I could have sunk down into the coal-hole to hide myself." "But what effect did all these sights seem to have on the member of Congress?" "Mr. Claverton is a perfect gentleman, so he only bowed on meeting me in this shocking place. But I, in my flurry, did not know what to do; so I stopped to inform him that I had merely gone to that shop to select a new style of fluting-iron. And then I caught myself, and assured him that the flutihg-iron was not for my own use, but intended as a gift to a poor washerwornan; and I added something about the delights of benevo- lence. I thought Mr. Claverton smiled,and I then recollected that he must have een me issuing from the private entrance instead of the store; and so my little bit of fibbery went for nothing." "That is generally, the way, my dear, with all your bits of fibbery. In most cases you would find less risk in sticking to the truth. Well-what did Mr. Claverton say then?" "Why, what could he say! I suppose he pitied my confusion; for he merely bowed again, and passed on. I could not help turning my head to gaze after him ; and there I saw him look up at the sign (that great blue and yellow sign, with ' Ebenezer Haverstraw' in letters as large as life), and then-and then-You never can guess the rest-He went straight in --Into the very store, and pa' himself behind the counter, ready to serve out sixpence worth of tacks to any old woman that may want to nail down a bit of carpeting. And then the worst of it is, Annetta is so like her father that anybody who knows her may directly recognize him. 'Kronk, what makes you look so queer?" "Nothing, dear." "But there is something--.something behind that I am not to know. In- stead of being struck aghast, you only simper. You cannot have heard already of this horrible thing. It cannot yet be the town-talk, for it is not three hours since it happened." "My dear, many things become the town-talk in less than one hour after they have happened."   28         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. 1"Kronk--I will not be tantalized. Hold up your head this instant, and look me in the face, and tell me if you knew, before you came home, that Mr. Claverton was in pa's store this afternoon. That imp, the widow Edgcumbe, has been watching-She must have dogged him at a dis- tance." "No, no-Do the widow justice-she is innocent of that." "How can you tell?-Are you in her confidence, Kronk?--there is some- thing strange in your looks--stranger even than usual. What is the matter with you?" "Nothing, dear--nothing at all." "But there is, I tell you-You have been doing some dreadful act." ( Indeed, dear, I have not. I hope it is not a dreadful act to try to get a customer for my own father-in-law." "6 What!" "W'ell, dear, since you must know, the truth may as well come out. Last evening there was some talk of horses among the gentlemen, and Mr. Westerford recommended to Mr. Claverton the new-invented curry-combs, and Mr. Claverton said he should like to take some of them home with him for his stable. So I spoke out and informed him he could be well served with the curry-combs (or with any articles of iron he might want for his house or farm) at Ebenezer Haverstraw's in Canal street." "Whom no doubt you told him was Annetta's father?" "No, dear--I only told him he was yours." Something like a scream now burst from the lips of Mrs. De Kronk, and for awhile she sat shaking with passion, unable to articulate an intelli- gible word. "' TO be sure, dear,"--said the husband-"I did all for The best, and I did not expect to be brought so soon to confession. And really the worst part of the business is, that after Mr. Claverton had seen you come out of the house-door dike a visitor as you were), you should have so far for- gotten yourself as to say you had only been in the store to buy a washing- iron, or whatever you call it, and that you should have talk&2 about be- nevolence." "I shall faint on this sofa!"-exclaimed the lady.--"Some smelling- salts-some cologne, I tell you." "I don't see any"--said the husband, looking about bewildered-"But here's a cake of scented soap, if that will do as well." "Kronk"--said the wife, with stern solemnity-"Kronk-we part." "Very well, my dear-how soon?"          . "Do you think I will indulge you by fixing a time?" replied the lady. And Mr.'De Kronk, having placed a glass of water and an orange within her reach, thought "the better part of valor was discretion," and wisely took refuge among the gentlemen down stairs. Little did Mrs. De Kronk suspect that, on the very morning after his arrival, the widow Edgrcumbe had put Mr. Claverton in possession of the whole history of the Haverstraw family, highly and falsely colored; and that therefore the member of Con- gress had nothing new to learn by his visit to Canal street. Mrs. De Kronk had her tea sent up, and remained in her own room, fretting, fuming, and in every way uncomfortable. She did not consider it worth while to go down stairs, as Annetta was out, and she had heard Claverton say after dinner that he had an engagement to spend the evening with some friends in Waverley Place. At length she pondered herself to sleep, in trying to devise some means of gettingtout of her present trouble   THE MAID OF CANAL STREETb         29 and of bringing the member of Congress to a proposal, notwithstanding all that had passed. None are so blind as those who will not see-and Mrs. De Kronk could not or would not perceive that Mr. Claverton had really evinced no symp- toms of love for Annetta Haverstraw; though he did not (as the widow Edgcumbe averred) absolutely despise the young lady. Next morning, before they descended to the breakfast room, Mrs. De Kronk, having slept off the ultra-violence of her discomposure, said to her husband-"Kronk, listen to me, and mind what I say. I have come to a conclusion that since this unlucky discovery has been made, and there is no recalling it, the best way to get out of the scrape is to carry it off with a bold face, and to act as if nothing had happened." "Who is to put on that bold face, dear, you or I? I would rather you Should try, for it will not sit so easy on me. And as to Annetta, there is no-getting boldness into her. She has too much'of the lamb about her." "The sheep, you mean." "I don't know. Ever since she has been in this house, she always makes me think of a lamb led to sacrifice, such as I have read of at school drest up in ribbons and flowers." "Where's the sacrifice, pray? Is it in getting a rich husband for her, and establishing her in society for ever? I only wish I had been sacrificed in that way, myself." "I wish you had, dear." "But I see no necessity of letting Annetta know what happened yes- terday. Why should she hear of Mr. Claverton's unlucky expedition to her father's shop in Canal street, and his meeting me just coming out of the private-door, and my unfortunate slip of the tongue in trying to make him believe I only went there to buy a fluting-iron, when (thanks to your folly) he knew the truth all the time. Never again, while-you live, dare to get pa' a customer, or say one word about that horrid shop of his." Before they quitted the breakfast-table, Mrs. De Kronk was"taken all aback" as the sailors say, by hearing that Mr. Claverton, having finished his business, purposed leaving the city next morning. No time was now to be lost: there was but one dav left to bring matters to a crisis, and Mrs. De Kronk felt at her wits' end in devising some means to accomplish it. She had heard Mr. Westerford talking, before the member of Congress came down, of a very handsome gig and a trotting-borse which that gentleman had purchased, and with which he was going to return to his home in the north-western part of the State of New York. The thought struck her that if she could only contrive a ride for Annetta in the said gig, seated beside its owner, there was no doubt the grand question would somehow be pro- pounded. She recollected numerous instances of offers being made and accepted during a tOte-d-tgte ride, besides her own experience: for it was a fact that Mr. Kester Krips-Kronk had asked Miss Sarah Haverstraw (or ra- ther Miss Sally had asked him), during a drive in one of those lucky vehi- cles to see something or somebody at Bloomingdale. Possessed with the above idea, Mrs. De Kronk began to feel a presenti- ment that " now was the day, and now the hbur" to strike a bold stroke, and make the member of Congress speak out. It was a lovely spring morning: and the temperature of the atmosphere was so delightful, that all the ladies, except Mrs. De Kronk, dropped off one by one, rather earlier than usual, to prepare themselves for what our Yankee friends would call *" improving the, weather;" that is, enjoying it   o0         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. out of doors. Telling -her sister that she was going to the library to change a book, Annetta Haverstraw was one of the first to quit the parlor,ap- prehensive that, as it was his last day, Mrs. De Kronk would contrive to leave her alone with Claverton, who was seated near a window deeply engaged with a new review. As soon as she found the coast clear, Mrs. De Kronk interrupted him by saying--"Pray, Mr. Claverton, have you been out to see the reservoir? "Of the Croton water-works?" replied he--"No-I am almost asham- ed to say that, as yet, I have not. But fortunately, I have still time, as I shall not leave town before to-morrow morning. So I will get my horse, and ride thither." ," Ride on horseback?" "Yes." "Now that is very churlish in you," affectink a sort of playfulness- "(To go all alone by yourself, when by putting your horse to your new gig you might take a companion with you, that would share the pleasure of the ride, this beautiful morning." "Very true--I will go and ask my friend Westerford- to accompany me." "W Well-I must say it is a very ungallant sight to see two gentlemen riding together in a gig. It looks as if neither of them had a lady-acquaint- ance in the whole wide world." Then attempting a careless unpremedi- tated tone, she added, "What say you to giving my sister Annetta a ride? She too has never seen the reservoir (this was an untruth) and I am sure she will enjoy it. She has been complaining of a-slight headache this morn- ing (another falsehood), and a nice ride in an open carriage will do her good." Claverton first looked up surprised, then looked down, while a shade of gravity passed over his countenance: and finally he said with a bow and a smile, "I shall esteem myself most happy in being allowed the pleasure of Miss Haverstraw's company." "(I knew you would," exclaimed Mrs. De Kronk, in a paroxysm of delight. "When will you have your gig at the door'?" "At any hour Miss Haverstraw may honor me by designating," replied Claverton. "Oh!-as soon as ever you please," cried Mrs. De Kronk. "Now di- rectly, if you choose. Annetta can be ready in five minutes." She then checked herself; recollecting that it would take some time. to dress out her sister properly for this important and decisive ride. "However"- she proceeded--" when I say directly, I of course mean about half an hour, or may be three quarters. Or, to be quite on the safe side, let us say an hour.'" "Very well," replied Claverton. "I will see that on my part all shall be ready in due season." And he seemed to resume his pamphlet. Both Claverton and Mrs. De Kronk had been sitting with their backs to the door. Mrs. De Kronk, in the eagerness of her transport at having so far succeeded in her scheme, hastened out of the room to run up stairs, and carry the glorious intelligence to her sister; forgetting that the young lady had gone to the library;: Had she turned her head, she might have caught a glimpse of the widow Edgcumbe in the back parlor, standing behind the open folding-door, having glided thither unperceived, that she might obtain an idea of what Mrs. De Kronk was saying to Claverton. She had come down'equipped for walking, and on hearing the voice of the   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.         1 chaperon addressing the member of Congress, she had meanly and mali- ciously glided behind the door, and thus overheard Mrs. De Kronk propose ing to Claverton that he should take Annetta out-riding with him. After Mrs. De Kronk had run up stairs with far more than her usual alacrity of movement, Mrs. Edgcumbe, unseen by Claverton, emerged from her hiding-place, walked up to the gentleman, and could not forbear saying to him, as he raised his head at her approach, "Well, Mr. Claverton, this is your last day. Let me, as a friend, advise you to stand on your guard. Desperate efforts will be made; and we may yet see you in the enviable position of son-in-law to the ironmonger, and brother-in-law to the Kronks." Claverton colored high with indignation; and vouchsafing no answer to the woman whom, of all others, he now disliked, he put his pamphlet into his pocket, and left the room ini silence. Mrs. Edgcumbe, though ar- rayed in her walking habiliments, and all ready for first shopping in Broadway, and afterwards making morning-calls; determined -to remain at home awhile longer, that she might see what would happen. Accordingly, she took her seat at one of the front windows, and, in a few minutes, perceived Annetta ascending the door step with her library- book. Mrs. Edgcumbe ran out to meet her in the vestibule, seized her hand, and said in a confidential voice--"Come in, come in. Why did you stay so long? You don't know what delight is in store for you. Only think? You are to ride out all the way to the reservoir with the member of Congress, and his trotting-horsebin the new gig." Annetta turned pale and red; and looked at Mrs. Edgcumbe in silent amazement. "I tell you it is true," con'tinued the widow. "I happened myself, with my own ears, to hear you'r sister ask Mr. Claverton to take you in his gig, saying you had never.,seen the water-works, and that you * had- a violent headache, and that a ride with him would do you good; as I dare say it will. And of course /(though he did hesitate awhile), he could do no less, at last, than bow, and murmur something concerning the honor of Miss Haverstraw's company; and, in short, he agreed to give you the ride. Now don't let him see you too much overjoyed. But be prudent; and take care not to behave as if you were every moment expecting a pro- posal. Remember that he ivill be on his guard also. But if he should be led to commit himself do/not you catch at it too eagerly." Terrified,shocked, and ifndignantat all this, Armetta stood pale and speech- less, looking as if she wads going to faint; till aroused by the sharp voice of her sister, who had waitched her return from the window above, and was now calling to her at the/ head of the stairs to come up directly. Annetta almost mech'anically obeyed the summons. Having reached the apartment of Mrs. iDe Kronk, she threw herself upon the sofa, and covering her face with hier hands, burst into a flood of tears. "Why Annetta, wha4 in the world is the matter with you?" exclaimed her sister. 1"Quit crying this moment, or you'll spoil your face for the day, and ruin everything. I've capital news for you. Mr. Claverton is going to ride out to thh water-works, and he came up to me (as I was. it- ting in the front-parlo r, after you left it) and timidly and respectfully begged me to intercede with Miss Annetta for the honor of her company in his handsome new gig, a id with his famous trotting-horse. Only think.--And he a member of Con ress too, and rich and celebrated! Luck has certainly come to you at last. Now pray remember ] that there is no time to lose; and play your carda well, and see. that you come home engaged. Here,   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. I've got out your white bonnet, and your lace scarf, and your lilac foulard. All is ready. Come-make haste-Mr. Claverton will be here directly." "Sister," said Annetta firmly, "I will not go." It was some moments before Mrs. De Kronk had power to give utter- ance to her astonishment. "You will not go !"-was at length her excla- mation. " You will not go !" "Indeed I will not"-repeated Annetta. Mrs. De Kronk fell back on the sofa. "' Listen to me, sister," continued our young heroine-" you know how irksome to me has been this persecution--for persecution I have always felt it, even from the very beginning--from your very first attempt at en- deavoring--what shall I say--at vainly endeavoring to attract towards me the attention of Mr. Claverton. It has exposed both you and myself to the remarks and the ridicule of the whole house. The plot is so flimsy, so palpable,,hat every one has seen through' it from its earliest commence- ment." "Do you presume to tell me"-cried Mrs. De Kronk, raising her voice -" that I am flimsy alrd palpable !" "No"-replied Annetta-" but I must say that your scheme has been so. It has caused me perpetual annoyance and vexation when Mr. Claverton was absent, and the most painfil embarrassment and confusion in his presence." "You confess yourself in lPve with him, then"-said Mrs. De Kronk, sharply--' If you were not in :love, you would not be confused and em- barrassed."                                             , A heightened color suffused the face of Annetta, spreading itself even to her neck; and her sister rudely pointed her finger at her, and called out -" There-there !" Annetta, disconcerted and irndignant, 'was for some moments unable to speak. At last, with an effort to subdue her emotion, she said in a voice intended to be calm---" One thing is certain', Mr. Claverton is not the least in love with me."  "'Tis your own fault"-said her sister--"' You might easily have made him so, had you played your cards well. Aby man may be drawn in to propose, if he is rightly managed."  "I wish no proposals".--replied Annetta-"_'from men that are to be drawn in by management.".  "Dear me! So much for reading poetry ankd filling your head with things that people of the world never should hear of. And now, let me know how you intend to get yourself out of the present scrape about riding with Claverton ?"  "I did not get myself into it"-answered Annetta. "What !-are you going to turn states-evidence, and throw the whole blame upon me-and tell him that it was all your sister's fault; and that you want none of his attentions; and that I have been trying all the time to bring about a match between you, because he was a rich man and a member of Congress!" "I have no intention of telling Mr. Claverton a ly of these unhappy truths"-replied Annetta, with a sigh. " What then ? Do you expect that I will go to h im, and confess my plot, as you call it, and humbly acknowledge my sin s, and beg to be for- given, and promise to be good all the rest of my life ?!) * J , i!   "Oh! sister-sister!"--said Annetta, turning away in sadness, not unmingled with disgust. " Well, then"-continued Mrs. De Kronk-" Now that things have proceeded so far, and that I have been foolish enough to run the risk of committing myself by way of benefiting you, (ungrateful as you are,) what else can be done than to follow out my plan ? He will in a few minutes be at the door with his horse and gig; so there is nothing left for you but to run down stairs and jump in, and let him drive off with you. A ride up Broadway in a gig with Mr. Claverton, (even if he don't propose,) will be a very good thing; for it will set every lady he knows to envying you, and also it will make the world believe that you are somebody. Only try it, and if you are not even a greater idiot than you seem to be, I feel quite positive that if he does not ask you in the gig, he certainly will, this evening, in the parlor; and I will take upon me to see that he has an opportunity. But, as I said, you must play your cards well, for such men re hard to catch." "I will play no cards at all, and I have no desire to catch any one"- said Annetta, indignantly. "Mr. Claverton has not the slightest partiality for me-I know he has not. And he never thinks of me, except when I am directly before his eyes. It would be strange if he should, after seeing me always to so great a disadvantage, and believing (as he undoubtedly must) that I have lent myself to this shallow and contemptible scheme, and that I am meanly and indelicately helping it along. No-nothing on earth shall tempt me to take this ride with Mr. Claverton." "I have one comfort"-said Mrs. De Kronk-" You have no possible way of avoiding it." " Why not ?"-inquired Annetta. At this moment the sound was heard of a vehicle driving up, and stop- ping at the door. Mrs. De Kronk flew to the window, and saw Claverton in his gig. "Run-run-Annetta"-she exclaimed-" see what an elegant horse and gig, and Mr. Claverton looking so elegant himself. There will be quite a sensation in Broadway." Annetta Haverstraw suppressed her inclination to take a glance at this elegance, and refrained from approaching the window. But Mrs. De Kronk stood and gazed from behind a half-drawn curtain. In an instant Claverton alighted, and, engaging a boy to hold the horse, he ran up the steps and entered the house. When Mrs. De Kronk turned from the window, she found that her sister had left the rooin. Supposing Annetta to have descended into the front parlor, for the purpose of seeing Mr. Claverton, and declining the ride, Mrs. De Kronk, in her anxiety to wit- ness all that passed on the occasion, stole down stairs, slipt into the vacant back-parlor, and ensconced herself behind the ever-convenient folding- door. The widow Edgcumbe, with her bonnet on, was seated at one of the front windows, pretending to be very much occupied by the passers-by; but casting side-glances at Claverton, who was' walking about the room with his glove in his hand, and who had just sent a servant to inform Miss Haverstraw that he was ready to attend her. In a few minutes the man returned, and presented a note to Mr. Claverton. He hastily broke the seal, read the billet, folded it up, changed color, and then re-opened it, and read it again. "Well, Mr. Claverton"-said Mrs. Edgeumbe-" what fortunate belle is   34         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. to be your companion in that very pretty vehicle, anq with that very fine horse?" "I had hoped for the pleasure of Miss Haverstraw's company"-re- plied Claverton--" but she has just sent me an excuse." Mrs. De Kronk could scarcely forbear screaming out from her hiding- place-but she checked herself, and held in her breath to listen to what ensued. "Really"-resumed Mrs. Edgcumbe--" this is some new whim. Weak- minded girls are always capricious. Yet, as the Irishman said-' You have gained a loss.' There would have been nothing remarkably distingue in riding up Broadway with old Haverstraw's daughter. But I must be cautious, for I see a glimpse of Mrs. De Kronk's blue and yellow plaid silk peeping out behind the folding-door." Mrs. De Kronk was now frightened into a hasty retreat, and she flew up stairs, and burst into Annetta's room, swelling with anger at her sister for having so steadily persisted in her determination of not riding with Claverton; and with more than anger at the insolence of the widow Edg- cumbe. But she stood aghast when she found the trunks and bureau- drawers standing open, the bed spread over with articles of dressi and Annetta evidently engaged in packing. "Why, Annetta"-;she exclaimed -" what is all this?-what do you mean?--what are you doing?" "I am preparing to leave this house immediately"--was the reply of Annetta.  "What for?" inquired Mrs. De Kronk, in a smothered voice, and shak- ing all over. "For the purpose of returning to my home-to the house of my parents -to the house which I ought never to have quitted." "And you dare to set about this of your own accord?" "It is all that is left to me"-said Annetta-" all that I can now do. Under my father's roof I shall be happy, and in my proper place. Here I have not been so, and never can be." "Was there ever such assurance!"-cried Mrs. De Kronk. "And to tell me so to my face!-I, who brought you here on purpose to make your fortune." , She stopped short at hearing the sound of a horse's feet, and, on running to the window, exclaimed---" 'here, there!-Mr. Claverton is driving off in his gig, with the widow Edgcumbe sitting beside him! And she looks up impudently, and gives me a nod. I'll never nod again. I shall hate nods all the rest of my life. And her wickedness too in riding with Mr. Claverton. She!-she!-to be flourishing up Broadway with a member of Congress in-a gig. That woman is equal to anything. - She must have asked him to take her-I know she did. And now' she has got hold of him, she'll not let him slip. They'll come home married-I know they will--she'll make him stop at an alderman's office or a church, or somewhere. And to think that you should have been such a fool as to refuse riding with him when you had a chance. What did you say in the note? Leave folding that frock and tell me this instant." "I merely said these very few words"-replied Annetta--"Miss Ha- verstraw requests Mr. Claverton to excuse her riding with him this morn- ing." "And you gave him no reasons?" "What reasons could I assign? In the dilemma to which you had brought me, explanation was out of the question. Mrs. Edgcumbe must have overheard all of your conversation with him, for she told it me as soon   THE MAID,OF CANAL STREET.         35 as I came in from the library. I was astonished, grieved, and mortified beyond expression. But at once I felt that to go, under such circumstances, would degrade me both in his eyes and in my own; besides exposing me to the sneers of Mrs. Edgcumbe, and the animadversions of the whole house--a house which I resolved on leaving this very day. No-r-discon- certed, distressed, humiliated as I was, I could think of no other way than to send him a concise but decisive note." "And so"-said Mrs. De Kronk--" with all your decorum, you have no scruples about writing billets to men. I always thought that prudent young ladies avoided trusting gentlemen with their hand-writing, lest they should show it about, and boast of the correspondence." "Circumstances alter cases"-replied Annetta. c"I know Mr. Claver- ton to be a man of sense, and I believe him to be a man of honor. I have not the least fear of his making a show or a boast of the two lines wrung from me by this unhappy transaction; in which I trust he will yet do me the justice to believe I had no part." "The widow Edgcumbe will take care that he shall believe no such thing"--said Mrs. De Kronk. "Then I can only hope he will not believe the widow Edgeumbe"-re- plied Annetta. "Hateful that she is"-said Mrs. De Kronk. "How did she know any- thing about it-she must have been listening behind the folding-door. A listener is as bad as a thief. I should; not wonder if she spreads a story all through the house about finding me listening there. Annetta, quit that packing. Wear your new peau de soie at dinner, and your India muslin in the evening, and look your very best; and be attractive ; and play and sing, and I'll ask you for all your last songs, and I'll get up a cotillon, and let Mr. Claverton see you dance; though he has left off dancing himself, I suppose, because he is a member of Congress. Be attractive,! tell you, and he'll forget all about the ride this morning; and things will come round so that he will have you yet." "Sister"-said Annetta-- "I can permit no more of this persecution." "Persecution! Did you not but a minute ago call him a man of sense and a man of honor? and yet you pretend not to be in love with him. There-there-look at your face in the glass. It is as red as these cur- tains." Annetta turned hastily round, and resumed her packing, distressed be- yond expression by the pertinacious coarseness of her sister, who, seeing that she was thoroughly disgusted, said, by way of salvo, "Why, is not it all for your own good--ungrateful as you are!" "I am sorry to say"-replied Annetta--" that your ideas of my good are so different from my own on the same subject, and so at variance with my feelings, and with my sense of propriety, that I find it impossible to continue any longer under your guidance. I shall never cease to regret having consented to become an inmate of this house, a house distinguished as pre-eminently fashionable. By thus placing riyself in a false position, I have been subjected to the annoyance of invidious looks and tnalicious remarks from the ill-natured, and entire neglect or bare toleration from the proud, or what is still worse, undue condescension and overstrained gra- ciousness. I have been afraid to converse, lest I should be found deficient in the tone of what is called ' society ;' afraid to play or sing or dance, lest my style should not be comme il faut; afraid to meet any advances towards familiarity, unless I should unwittingly go too far, and lest the   36         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. hand that was kindly held out to me should be coldly withdrawn, if I took it too readily. All the conversation around me turned upon things belong- ing to a higher sphere than mine. I heard continually of the splendor of houses into which I could never expect to be admitted, of elegant enter- tainments to which I could never hope to be invited, of distinguished men whom I could never aspire to see but at a distance; of talented, refined, and delightfil women with whom it was impossible I should ever have an opportunity of exchanging a word. And yet, I felt all the time tjlat I was neither ugly, ignorant, stupid, nor vulgar. But I belonged to the class called the people; and all around belonged to the class called the aristocracy, or pretended to do so." "More fool you, then, to mind all this," said Mrs. De Kronk. "I took my stand at once, and showed them all that whatever they might think of me, I considered myself quite as good as anybody; and so I always do wherever I am, in spite of papa, and his shop in Canal street. Nobody shall put me down while Kronk is making so much money; and if you had a rich husband you might take your turn, and toss your head at the commoners. Once more I tell you to stay where you are, and see how things will turn out. Mr. Claverton does not intend going till to-morrow morning; and with proper management he might be kept here for a week longer at least; and in that time I will pledge myself to get him for you. I know how to manoeuvre." "Sister," said Annetta, "I can listen to nothing more on this subject. Forgive me for saying that your manceuvres are not of the sort to be siuc cessful. They have already (particularly those of this morning) occa- sioned me much vexation, shame, and mortification, and have added greatly to the other annoyances consequent on my residence at Mrs. Grandinhall's. This your last act of endeavoring to put me in the way of obtaining, or rather forcing, a ride with Mr. Claverton, regardless of what appearance it might have to him, or what inferences he might draw from it, or in what light it might place me; this, 1 say, has been the one drop too many that has caused my cup of bitterness to overflow. As I tell you, Mrs. Edgcumbe has by some means discovered the whole; and of course she will spread it through the house. I have not courage to appear again either at table or in the parlor; or to look Mr. Claverton in the face." "That is because you are in love with him. If you were not, you would never take all these things so much to heart. And you would have your wits about you, and know better how to play your cards." "Once more," said Annetta, "I must insist on hearing no further reference to this subject, now or ever. I have taken my resolution, and I will act upon it promptly. As Mrs. Grandinhall was paid last week, I am but a trifle in her debt. I have sent for her bill. I have had a car- riage ordered to convey myselfand my baggage to Canal street, which now seems to me like a haven of rest." "I wish you joy of it," said her sister. "In lessthan an hour," continued Annetta, "I shall have left this house to return no more." That our readers may comprehend by what means Mrs. Edgcumbe became the companion of Mr. Claverton's ride, we will return to the front parlor of Mrs. Grandinhall's mansion, where we left the lady and gentle- man just after the reception of Annetta's billet, and the flight of Mrs. De Kronk from behind the door. After a moment's pause, Mrs. Edgcumbe went to the pier-glass, ad-   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.        -37 justed her bonnet, and said, with an affectation of nonchalance--"6 Well, Mr. Claverton, rather than the lady's seat in your gig should be vacant this lovely day, suppose you take me as Miss Haverstraw's unworthy substi- tute. I am a bold creature-an't I?" Mr. Claverton thought she was, and could scarcely forbear replying accordingly. He paused a moment, and then said-"This is my last day in the city; and I fear I shall not now have time to visit the water-works." "Oh! never mind-I don't care about the water-works. Just take me as far up as Bleecker street, and then you may set me down. I have a few calls to make in that neighborhood. During our ride I can entertain you with some amusing things about a certain family." "Mrs. Edgcumbe"-said Claverton, seriously-"You must allow me to stipulate that Miss Haverstraw and her connections shall form no part of our conversation." "Really I upon my word!"-replied the widow, tossing her head- "You are quite sensitive on the subject. So I suppose I must be on my best behavior. Well-you men are tyrants always: and we poor women must always submit." Claverton made no reply, but conducted the lady to his gig, handed her in, and drove with her up Broadway, consoling himself with the idea that as this was the first, so it should be the last time he would ride with the widow Edgcumbe. They proceeded far up Broadway, she talking and laughing all the while, and he looking sometimes distrait, and sometimes annoyed, and scarcely replying even as often as civility required. Her talk turned chiefly on persons that were obliged to keep shops; and she related anec- dotes of those she had met at watering-places, illustrating what she called the utter impossibility of tradespeople being genteel. On going by Canal street, she could not forbear giving Claverton a significant glance, to which he replied by turning away his head. Afterwards, on passing several handsome private dwellings, Mrs. Edgcumbe regaled her companion with slanderous anecdotes of the occupants of these splendid mansions. At length, to his great relief, she made him set her down at a house in Bleecker street, and Claverton took his leave. As soon as he had driven off, she insinuated to the family she had come to visit, that the world said Mr. Claverton was an admirer of hers; but this she desired them on no account to mention. Now the truth was, that Mrs. Edgcumbe had perceived from the be- ginning (even as far back as their first acquaintance at Washington) that she had no chance whatever of obtaining Mr. Claverton herself; and this was the reason that with a sort of dog-in-mangerness she was so strenuous in trying to prevent him from marrying any one else. Also, she conceived that there would be some eclat in the spread of a report, (however false,) that she had made a conquest of the wealthy, handsome, and distinguished member of Congress. Having disposed of Mrs. Edgcumbe's ride with Mr. Claverton, we will now take a look at the De Kronks. When Mr. De Kronk came home to dinner, his wife had him summoned up-stairs, and informed him that after Mr. Claverton had expressly invited Annetta to take a ride with him, she had actually refused; and that she had written to the member of Con- gress an insulting note; and on being, in a sisterly manner, reproved for this unheard-of conduct, she had actually left the house, and gone home to her father's. i }.   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. "I am glad of it"-said Mr. De Kronk. This drew on him a torrent of reproach, to which he listened patiently, and then replied that in consequence of some news received that morning, he found it necessary to take an immediate voyage to England, and that he had engaged already his passage in a ship that was to sail in three days. Mrs. De Kronk looked much astonished: and then said- "I cannot possibly get ready in three days. Such short notice is a thing not to be borne."  "You need not get ready at all"--replied her husband, trying to speak firmly-"I shall leave you here in New York." "Kronk! are you an idiot?" "I should be very much like one if I took you with me"-said he, courageously. "You can either remain here at Mrs. Grandinhall's, or you may engage apartments in any other boarding-house you please, and you may be assured of an ample allowance for your expenses during my absence. But I shall seize this opportunity of giving myself a little relief, of enjoying oncemore the delight of living awhile in peace." "Kronk! what has got into you?" "What ought to have been in me long ago. A determination to be hen- pecked no more. Had I taken a decided tone when we were first married, I might perhaps have made a very tolerable wife of you, and saved myself much domestic misery. However, on this point I am decided. You do not go with me to Europe, where my stay may be from three months to twelve. It will do us both good to be separated awhile." He then left her. Mrs. De Kronk did not fall into hysterics this time; but that day she appeared no more down stairs; the unexpected departure of her husband sufficing as an excuse. It was observed (for in a boarding-house what is not observed) that Mr. De Kronk seemed in unusual spirits both at dinner and tea. Long before dinner, both the departure of Annetta Haverstraw and its cause were well known throughout Mrs. Grandinhall's establishment; -the stormy dialogue between Mrs. De Kronk and her young sister having been overheard by two ladies that occupied an adjoining room with a door be- tween. These doors between are bad things in boarding-houses. Claverton dined out; but when he came in at tea-time, he found himself as much " the observed pf all observers" as on the first evening of his arrival. Though he sedulously avoided the widow Edgeumbe, it was not long before he was made to understand that Miss Haverstraw had left the house that morning, and gone home to her parents; and every eye glanced at him to see how he took the information. Apparently he took it no how; though two ladies declared that they saw him turn red, and two that they saw him turn pale, and three that he turned first pale and then red, and four that he turned first red and then pale; and one said that he sighed audibly, and one that he smiled visibly. All, however, agreed as to the important fact that Mr. Claverton on this evening drank but one cup ot tea, and took nothing with it; yet none seemed to recollect that this was by no means an uncommon practice with him. After tea he disap- peared. Some few conjectured that he hacd gone up to Canal street to have an explanation with Miss Haverstraw, and to propose to her. But the majority thought thisimpossible. And there was then much canvass- ing whether he had gone to finish his farewell calls, or gone to play bil- liards, or gone to the theatre, or gone to read at the Athenaeum, or gone to   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.         39 the Exchange to hear the news. The truth was, Mr. Claverton had gone to his room, where he read awhile at a new novel, looked out of the window awhile, walked up and down for awhile, and then packed his trunks. About ten o'clock, he came down, sought Mrs. Grandinhall in her own parlor, and paid his bill; and he then joined the company for a few mi- nutes to take leave of those with whom he was acquainted; Mr. De Kronk informing him with great glee that in three days he purposed sailing for England, and leaving his wife in New York. Claverton's intention was merely to bow to the widow Edgcumbe, and concisely pay her his parting compliments in the usual form; but she held out both her hands to him, so that he was obliged to take one of them. She assured him that the house would seem a desert after his departure; feared that he would find his home very lonely; and invited him to make frequent visits to the city; adding--"Of course you will never stay any- where but at Mrs. Grandinhall's." She could not. forbear saying to him at the last moment, in a sort of audible whisper-"You know, I suppose, that the poor Haverstraw girl, seeing no prospect of success, -has thought it best to throw up her cards, and decamp to-day without beat of drum." Claverton coldly bowed, in too much disgust to vouchsafe a reply; and, turning away from the widow, he encountered his friend Westerford, of whom he took leave, and then left the room. Westerford followed him to the foot of the staircase, and said- "Claverton, a few words more. Annetta Haverstraw has been shamne- fully misrepresented to you by the widow Edgcumbe, and has also been compelled to appear under great disadvantages from the folly and forward- ness of her sister, Mrs. De Kronk, in that ridiculous woman's over zeal to obtain a bon parti for her. So extreme was Annetta's mortification at Mrs. De Kronk's having asked you to take her riding that she resolved on leaving the house in consequence; feeling unable to see you, or confront the other boarders, after the shock which her delicacy had received through the absurd manouvres of her sister. A conversation between them to this effect was overheard this morning by two ladies who inhabit the adjoining room; and Annetta very sensibly determined to withdraw from the influ- ence of her sister, and return at once to her parents." "In doing so she has acted wisely and well"-observed Claverton. "Depend on it"-resumed Westerford--"Annetta Haverstraw is really a very fine girl, with much mind and much heart; and, therefore, with a true perception and correct feeling of what is right and wrong." Claverton heartily shook the hand of his friend, saying--"I am really very glad to hear this-very glad, indeed." "A boarding house"-continued Westerford-" is the worst possible place in which to form a correct opinion of a young lady. But, good- night. I will accompany you down to the boat in the morning." On Claverton's leaving the room there had ensued an ample and unre- served discussion of him among the ladies; and Mrs. Edgcumbe, much offended at his coldness to her, no longer restrained herself from talking openly in his dispraise, adding, as a corroboration of her sentiments-- "You know I saw and heard a great deal of him at Washington. Indeed at the White House he was positively given to' me, notwithstanding they might have seen that I never vouchsafed him the slightest encouragement." "I wonder you did not"---said Mr. Westerford, who had returned to the room unperceived-"I have known him long and well, and I believe that 4.  THE MAID OF CANAL STEEET. there are few disengaged women who would not feel gratified and honored by the regard of Harley Claverton." During two days Mrs. De Kronk was not seen down stairs, and it was observed that Mr. De Kronk seemed gradually to be losing his new-found vivacity. Some conjectured that, "good easy man," he really loved his wife, and was sorry to leave her. A very few opined that the lady was mourning in anticipation the departure of her husband; but much the largest number supposed that she was, ashamed to show herself, after the failure of her project concerning her sister Annetta and the member of Congress. On the third morning, a carriage and a cart came to Mrs. Grandinhall's door, preparatory to the departure of the steamboat that was to start at ten from Whitehall, for the purpose of conveying on board the passengers who were to embark that day in the packet for London. Mr. De Kronk, with a face of a mixed expression, in which despair seemed to predominate, superintended the stowage of a large quantity of baggage that was brought out, and deposited in and about the two vehicles. Lastly, Mrs. De Kronk came down with a gay, triumphant air, and followed him to the door, to take leave of her husband cavalierly, as was conjectured by the whole house, all of which appeared on this occasion at the front windows. But she came back no more; for she accompanied him quite to the carriage, quite to the steamboat, quite to the ship, and quite to England. It was afterwards ascertained, that as soon as Mr. De Kronk had left the room afterp refusing to take his wife, she immediately commenced packing to go with him, notwithstanding the time for preparation was so very short. To his utter dismay he found her steadfastly resolved upon going, and this being " the settled purpose of her soul," his own resolution not to take her was of no avail. On the evening before his departure, he had gone to Canal street, to bid farewell to his father-in-law's family; Mrs. De Kronk sending word that she had not time. On the next evening they were out of sight of land; Mrs. De Kronk very sea-sick, and reproaching her husband for letting her come with him. After the departure of Miss Haverstraw, Mr. Claverton, and the De Kronks, the house suffered for want of gossip: the new arrivals being nothing particular. At last came a German baron (most Germans are barons), and furnished a fresh subject for observation and discussion. Mrs. Edgcumbe, who spoke boarding-school French, immediately laid siege to him, by managing to get herself seated next to the said baron at table, and vigilantly translating his wants to the servants. When dinner was over, he handed her, or rather she handed him, into the principal parlor, and while he occupied a whole sofa, she placed herself before him on a tabouret. She now found that he could speak something that might pass very well for English, and she told him how much she regretted not understanding German, and begged him to instruct her on the much-dis- puted pronunciation of the illustrious name of Goethe. The baron gave it to her his way, at which she rejoiced exceedingly, assuring him that she con- sidered it now settled beyond all doubt, and that she should certainly never call it anything else than Gwerter. She then talked of what she called Dr. Faustus, which the Baron Von Blattenberg told her should be pro- nounced Fowst.     - "How very soft the German language is," observed the widow. In the course of the evening, Mrs. Edgeumbe became a complete pro-. selyte to the baron's belief in homeopathy, animal magnetism, transcendent- I I, . !"4 ' AL,   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.         41 alism, of which he himself was a specimen, and many other miraculous and indescribable things that have originated in his father-land, and seem very much like the ancient superstitions of the dark ages, furbished up, and put into flimsy new dresses, quite as fantastic but not half so rich as the old ones. But, "in these piping times of peace," what should we do without something to talk about? Next day Mrs. Edgcumbe gave out that the Baron Von Blattenberg was "a very superior man," and she discanted copiously on the beauties of his mind. Those of his face she had little chance of discovering, as they were imbedded in clumps of hair, all of which (fore-locks, side-locks, whiskers, mustachios, and a most Tunker-like beard) seemed to unite or run into each other. Somepersons surmised that the baron's face had nothing but this hair to boast of. Others thought that he must have had some features. In about three weeks after their first acquaintance,'the widow Edg- cumbe and the baron repaired early one morning to a certain church, and were married, came home, announced the fact, and set out immediately on a tour to Niagara; but it was afterwards reported that they did not get any farther than Poughkeepsie, where they took lodgings for the summer. The lady had discovered that her husband was not the head of the ancient house of Blattenberg, the great baron of all (whose six brothers died in. childhood), but merely the youngest of his seven sons; and that he held a commission in the guards of a German prince, and was now on half pay; the whole pay being about, four hundred dollars per annum. Spring passed away, summer came on, and Harley Claverton found himself again- in the city of New York. But this time he staid at one of the principal hotels. Immediately when apprised of Claverton's being in town, his friend Westerford came to see him, and told him of the arrival in England of the De Kronks, and that the Blattenbergs were meandering about the country, staying awhile here and awhile there, and not seeming to know exactly where to go, or what to do: their chief dependence being evidently on the very moderate income of the lady. But as the gentleman was one of those gifted persons, the seventh son of a seventh son, it was thought likely he would be able to turn to profitable account the super- natural powers which are said to be vested in those rare and mysterious individuals. Next evening Claverton and Westerford went together to Niblo's. On a seat fronting the stage Westerford pointed out to his friend Annetta Haverstraw, with her father and mother. She looked charmingly; her hair was simply but beautifully arranged, and all her habiliments were tasteful and becoming. Her whole attention being completely absorbed in the inimitable performances of the Ravel family, she did not look around the house or perceive the presence of any one she knew. When the first part of the entertainment was over, the audience repaired from the boxes to the open gallery that surrounds this very agreeable summer theatre, and disposed themselves to witness the almost terrific descent of two of the Ravels on a rope stretched tightly from a window high in the roof down to the garden below. Though for many nights repeated, this feat seemed always one of frightful daring, and as such could not but excite intense interest in the spectators, with whom not only the gallery but the garden was filled , their upturned faces, all illuminatedwith the quiver- ing glare of the brilliant lamps interspersed among the trees and flowers. The night itself was extremely dark; and the sable and starless sky 4 42         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. made a fine back-ground for throwing out the principal objects of the scene. Every voice was hushed in breathless expectation, when -a glow- ing light shone out from a large open window in the roof of the building, and standing full within it appeared the graceful form of Madame Jerome Ravel, splendidly drest in white, spangled with silver and festooned with flowers. She stood motionless for a moment, as if to rally her courage, and her brow- became iery pale as she stepped out from the window and her foot touched the rope. The first step being made, she steadily de- scended, fixing her fine dark eyes steadfastly on the heavens above; to cast them downward would perhaps have been death. The colored fires of numerous torches, placed at intervals below, flashed out upon her: not to light her down the perilous cord (to fall from which was to rise no more), but to show her to the spectators as she descended like a spirit of air, her white attire looking whiter still, as relieved by the dark sky beyond. And loud were the plaudits by which she was greeted when in a few minutes her foot safely touched the earth. Claverton could not forbear turning his eyes from Madame Jerome Ravel to fix them upon Annetta Haverstraw, near whom he contrived to get a place from whence he could see her to advantage. She did not, like many of the ladies, scream and cover her eyes with her hands: but she looked deadly pale; paler far than the fair performer of this appalling exploit. She gazed with deep commiseration at the actress, now engaged in a feat of awful reality, and when it was over, and Madame Ravel was safely-landed on the earth, Annetta drew a deep sigh, as if she had not breathed till then, and cast down her eyes, from which the tears were drop- ping. "She is really a lovely girl," said Westerford. Claverton made no reply, but he felt that she truly was so. The hero of the theatre, the handsome and talented Gabriel Ravel, ele- gantly drest in white and gold, now appeared at the high window to repeat the exploit just performed by his sister-in-law. His look was fear- less and animated, and his perfect and unblenching confidence of success and safeiy inspired all the audience with the same. He ran gaily down the rope with the firm nerves of a man, and the ease of a bold and prac- tised performer. Having reached the bottom, he turned and ran up to the top with-,the same vivacity. This time Annetta looked less apprehensive, trusting to the courage and habitual agility of this chief of the unrivalled *Ravels. , The audience then returned to the interior of the theatre, to see an ingenious and diverting pantomime, and Claverton took . pleasure, in observing how much Annetta was amused, and in witnessing her admira- tion of the beauty and magnificence of the brilliant concluding scene. When the performance was over, Claverton and Westerford went round to pay their compliments torMiss Haverstraw, but befort!they could reach the place, she and' her father and mother were alreadygovne, and, the crowd being great, the two gentlemen got out of the garden just in time to see the Haverstraws enter a carriage and drive off, on their return home. In that suburb of the city of New York once designated as Greenwich, but whose identity is now lost in the multitude of noble streets and hand- some houses that have arisen in a few years with almost the rapidity of magic upon the site of a straggling village, lived Mrs. Margaret Foster, an excellent and notable matron, now in her fiftieth year. She had been wife to the master of a small vessel that traded to the West Indies. -After   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. 4,3 the death of her husband, who had acquired a little money, of which (won- derful to relate) he had made a safe investment, she went to live as house. keeper in a hotel, where she remained long enough to enable herself -to retire upon what she called her fortune. This fortune put it in Mrs. Foster's power to buy the old house in which she had lived at Greenwich, and which she had made a happy home to her husband whenever he came from sea. Here she once more quietly settled herself; rejoicingethat, as it was her own property, she should have no- rent to pay; and calculating that its garden would produce vegetables enough for her table, and that the interest of what her husband had left, eked out by taking a boarder, would enable her to enjoy a sort of otium cum dignitate for the remainder of her life. Mrs. Foster had a brother, BenJamin Brockett, a judicious and truly honest man, who had lived for many years at the Oaklands, such being the designation of Harley Claverton's fine estate, about two hundred miles from the city. Mr. Brockett filled, Creditably to himself, and satisfactorily to his employer, an office which was not exactly that of either steward, overseer, or clerk, but partook of all three ;, and for which he received a handsome salary that would put it into his power to think of marrying whenever he met with a female in whom he could see no fault. Meanwhile the agent, like his principal, suffered throughout the whole country under the character of a determined bachelor. However, Mr. Claverton had this summer repaired and enlarged his mansion, thinking it as well perhaps to be prepared for the worst: that being Brockett's idea of his. motive for col- lecting work-people about him. As the improved house required improved furniture, and as the old housekeeper had become nearly superannuated, and was going to finish her days lin the family of a married granddaughter, it was decided that Claverton should take a journey to the city, select what- ever was proper for a handsome establishment, and engage a clever and capable woman to fill the place of Mrs. Pottinger. Brockett at once thought of his sister Margaret Foster, whom he had long been anxious to have near him, and whom he believed to be well qualified for superintending -the domestic concerns of such a place as the Oaklands. On mentioning her to his employer, Mr. Claverton at once consented to engage Mrs. Fosterif she could be persuaded to leave her present home; a task which Brockett volunteered to undertake by writing his sister an eloquent letter on the subject; and Claverton promised to take this letter to Greenwich, and put it into her own hands. We have thus digressed a little backwards, to explain why, on the morning after his recent arrival in the city, our hero having brought- his gig with him, took a ride in it to the upper part of Greenwich, and left it at a livery-stable, while he sought, more conveniently on foot, for the house of Mrs. Foster, which was in no particular street; at least in no street that had a visible name, there being as yet few new buildings in that remote section of the suburb. After repeated-iqu uiries he found Mrs. Foster's dwelling-place, looking very quiet and'rural in a shady sort of lane that led directly down to the North River, beynd whose broad and sun-gilt waters rose the opposite shore of Hoboken, and the low rocks that in a few miles ascend into the lofty precipices of the romantic and far-famed Palisades. The house, sur- rounded by apple and pear trees, w as a yellowish frame s oructure,-with scolloped clap-boards, roof-shingles to match, and brown doorand window frames. It stood in the midst of a g arden fenced rou nd by a pointedied ato paling: its little walks gravelled with small gray pebbles from the rivddr. beach.. Behind the house grew a  supply of the most useful culinary  v , f w X   "        THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. tables; at its sides were currant and raspberry bushes-directly in front lay the flower and herb-garden redolent of holly-hocks, convolvuluses, lady-slippers, lavender, sage, and sweet marjoram. The broad door-step was accommodated with a porch-seat on each side, and arched above by a luxuriant hop-vine whose light green blossoms hung in masses among the dark leaves. It was a lovely morning in August. The rain of the preceding night had cooled the air, and all looked fresh and calm and pleasant. Just within the gate, a neat and respectable-looking female was stooping down to tie up some plants that had been prostrated by the storm. Claverton inquired if she was Mrs. Foster. She answered in the affirm- ative, and on his making himself known to her, she invited him into the house, and requested him to move softly lest he should disturb some ladies who were there. Preceding him into the front parlor, Mrs. Foster gently shut a door that communicated with the adjoining room, and then placed a chair for him near the window and took another herself. The furniture was plain and humble, but extremely neat, and while his hostess read the letter which Claverton put into her hands, she requested him to amuse himself with the mantel ornaments, which her husband had brought from the West Indies. There were some very beautiful specinens of shells and sea-weed, which, at another time, our hero would have found pleasure in examining and admiring; but his'attention had been riveted imme- diately on entering the room, by hearing from the adjoining apartment a delightful voice accompanied by a piano extremely well touched The song was in French, and it was Boildieu's beautiful melody, well known in English as the mermaid's chant of "Follow, follow through the sea." Mrs. Foster pointed to a chair near the closed door, and made a most un- necessary sign of silence to her guest: for Claverton would almost have ceased to breathe rather than lose a note of the charming music, whose clear sweet warblings seemed indeed "s to..issue from some wreathed shell." Fortunately for him, Mrs. Foster had mislaid her spectacles, and was a long time in searching vainly for them, and still longer in trying to decipher, without their aid, her brother's letter of four closely-written pages, giving her a minute description of the " house and land" of Mr. Claverton, and of all the facilities she would find there of fulfilling her duties as house- keeper. On the conclusion of the song, Claverton overheard a female foreigner pronounce, in the Gallic tongue and in the accents of declining age, some very delicate compliments on the brilliancy and taste of its execution; and shortly after the voice of the fair syren commenced reading in French the ... - Le cent un." She read under- latter pages of a pathetic conte from e cent standingly and effectively; but her voice frequently trembled with emotion, insetaillng the grief and despair of an honest and affectionate paysdnne who had fallen asleep in a public vehicle in which she as carrying on a isit to its parents in Paris a lovely and beloved nursetd, and on awak- ing had found life extinguished in the infant confided., iher charge; she having accidentally smothered it during her slumber!?'The catastrophe of htavng acienal -"m: this simple and touching story was rendered almost unintelligible by the sobs of the fair reader, and of the French female, Rho was, as she supposed, her sole auditor. Meanwhile, Mrs. Foster, having finished her brother's letter, began to Oalk to Clavqrlon on the business that had brought him to her house; and eShe seemed to waver greatly between the enjoyments of her own quiet whumgh humble home, and the bustle and cares of a large establishment, of   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.        45 which she said she had had sufficient experience when housekeeper at the hotel; though to be sure the mansion of a great gentleman was somewhat different. She made minute inquiries as to the convenience of the store- rooms, the cellars, the kitchen, the wash-house, and above all as to the behavior of " the big and little ovens," protesting (and with truth) that if the baking did not go well there was small comfort in a country house. Claverton assented unconsciously to everything she said f his attention being all the time riveted on the singing and reading in the back parlor; pertinaciously keeping his seat near its closed door. And he was not himself again till he heard its occupants leave the room; the younger female offering (still in French) to conduct the other up stairs for the pur- pose of taking a little repose during the heat of the forenoon. "I have heard that voice before"-said Claverton--"It seems almost familiar to me." "What, Madame Dorsange!"--replied Mrs. Foster--"Now it seems to me that all French people have the same voice, and so have those that are talking French to them. But I suppose it is because I don't understand what they say." "It is the younger voice I mean"-said Claverton--"But my recollec- tion of it is that it spoke English always, and that its tones were lower." He then took his hat and rose to depart, adding--"Well, Mrs. Foster- we may now conclude this affair to be settled." "Oh! dear! no, sir"-replied Mrs. Foster--"I have been rooted so long in this very spot, that it will take some time to dig me out of it. I must let my house--and it will go very hard with me to'sell off my furniture, and dispose of my boarder, and leave my old neighborhood. I must con- sider of it for a week or two atleast; and then I will send you word. And as you do not seem to know anything particular about the big oven, I will write to brother Ben, and ask him. And then again I must inquire of him if there are plenty of hops growing on the place, that I may have no com- plaints from the cook about bad yeast." "There is a whole hedge of hop-vines, behind the house"-said Cla- verton--who had now reached. the front-door porch, followed by his hostess. "' Excuse me, sir"--said Mrs. Foster--" but great gentlemen, (especially members of Congress,) seem to know so little about common things. That is a real hop-vine running over the porch--Is it exactly like those you. mention--The same leaves, and same blossoms?" "Exactly"--replied Claverton, smiling--"I do know what hops are when I see them. As to the great oven I had a n'ew one built under the superintendence of a baker; and I can assure you that whatever is baked in it looks well, and tastes well." "Dear sir--why did not you tell me these things when I was asking you about them'inh the parlor?" "I thought I did," ," No indeed--Tfisay the plain truth, you answered quite ignorant and random-like. But I see how it was, dowering her voice.) You were minding nothing but Miss Annetta's French singing and reading." "Miss Annetta Haverstraw!" exclaimed Claverton. i "Yes, indeed--it was even she-But come out with me quite into the garden, and while I am picking you a posy, I will tell you, for I like to talk about her. She is in the up-stairs back chamber fixing Madame Dor-       "        THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. sange for the poor old lady's forenoon nap, and if we remember to spetk as low as we did in the front parlor, they will not hear us." Luckily for Claverton, Mrs. Foster's bouquets were always enormously large, as she included in them bountiful specimens, in all their varieties, of every flower in the garden. Therefore to make the collection was a work of time, and our hero was now in no haste to depart, as long as an excuse remained for lingering about the precincts of the house that contained Annetta Haverstraw. "Yes-yes"-continued Mrs. Foster, as she stooped over her flower- beds. "That sweet young lady is Miss Annetta Haverstraw of Canal street. Did you ever hear anybody sing as she does, so clear and sweet and sensible like, for all it's in French-And then how she takes up a French book and reads it off as glib and easy as if it was American! And then to hear her talk to old Madame Dorsange, neither of them saying one word that anybody else can understand. I am quite sure Miss Annetta's French sounds much the best of the two." "And now may I be permitted to ask who Madame Dorsange is "-- said Claverton. "Oh! yes--I'll tell you in a minute-Her husband was one of Buona- parte's officers, and saw him every day; and he must-have been a pretty great one too, for Buonaparte often talked to him. And they had a son that was a young officer-But both husband and son were killed in the great battle of Waterloo, and the family were left destitute. And the son's wife died of grief, and left a little boy five or six years old. So Madame Dorsange, (whose father had been here at the time of the Revolution, and had fought in several of our battles, and taught all his family to like Ame- rica) she, I say, came over with her little grandson; thinking it would be the best place to bring him up in. And she got a living for herself and him by teaching French and music, till the boy was old enough to go into a store. Miss Annetta Haverstraw was one of her scholars, and liked her very much; and Mr. and Mrs. Haverstraw were very kind to Madame Dorsange, and invited her often to tea; and on holidays to dine with them; and did all they could to help her along, and make her happy and not grieve after Buonaparte. And when her grandson grew up he was taken as clerk by a shipping merchant--But the old lady worked on at her teaching, for as Antonine, as she calls him, soon got engaged to be married, she would not accept the least bit of his salary, that he may have some- thing a-head to go to housekeeping with. He went out in the spring supercargo to India, and they say he is to go round the world before he comes back. Just after he sailed, the old lady took a dreadful cold from being caught in the rain; and it settled in her eyes, so that she has nearly lost her sight, for she can now neither read, nor write, nor sew, nor play music by note; and she hasl]had the rheumatism so bad in her right hand that she cannot use it at all. So poor Madame Dorsange: had to give up teaching altogether; and I don't know what would have become of her only for the Haverstraws--who, though they live there in Canal street where the store is, and make no show, and don't subscribe to institutions, lay out heaps of money in doing good in a quiet way privately. So Mr. and Mrs. Haverstraw came up here about the first of June to get lodgings for Madame Dorsange, where she could be comfortable for the summer, and have good air and good victuals, and peaceability. So they took my large back room up stairs that has a view of the river, and the use of' the back parlor, where I let Madame Dorsange put her piano. And Miss Annetta,   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.         47 out of her own money, pays the wages of my other girl Betsey, because she waits on Madame Dorsange. And the old lady isn't at all troublesome for a foreigner (I suppose because she's French, and not English) and bears rheumatism wonderful. Then she talks American pretty well, and has made me' quite learned in France by discoursing so much on it, that I almost imagine I have been there. And as to Buonaparte-why I seem to be actually acquainted with him, and as if I could see him before me. She is really a fine old lady, (poor old thing,) and very sensible for a foreigner; and she has told me a great deal about nice French cookery, if I should ever have occasion to practize it." "Does Miss Haverstra*w come frequently to see her?" inquired Cla- verton. "That she does"-replied Mrs. Foster-" two or three times every week, and takes her out walking, just in the neighborhood. They had a little walk this morning before you came. And. sometimes Mr. and Mrs. Haverstraw and Miss Annetta all come and take her riding. Madame Dor- sange calls Miss Annetta her angel, and well she may, if it's right to call any mortal by such a beautiful name. Miss Annetta seems certainly like a good angel to her, especially when she sings and plays for the old lady's amusement, poor old creature. Did you ever hear such singing in your life? I never get tired of it, for all it's French; and could listen to it for- ever when I've nothing else to do. And she always plays the things Madame Dorsange likes best, poor old woman. Then she-brings French books and reads them to her, and her reading is so beautiful that I almost seem to understand the meaning of it myself. And she makes her caps, and does all sorts of nice little jobs for her. Then she always treats her just as if she was a lady, and not an old French woman. And indeed I follow her example, and do the same myself; and I force Nancy and Betsey to respect her too. I have got them so that they have quite left off laughing at her, even in the kitchen. To be sure she is so very good and so anxibus not to give trouble, and& so easily pleased, and all her ways are so genteel that it is impossible not to like Madame Dorsange, French as she is. I know a-great many of our own American people that are nothing to com- pare to her, especially the old women." "By what conveyance does Miss Haverstraw come here?" asked Cla- verton. "Mostly by the omnibus, and sometimes in a cab"-replied Mrs. Foster. "She came to-day in the omnibus. It always puts her out at the corner." "She shall not go home in either omnibus or cab"--exclaimed Claverton with unconscious warmth. "Sir!" said Mrs. Foster-surprised at the energy of his tone. "My dear Mrs. Foster"--resumed our hero-" allow me to explain- I have the honor of being somewhat acquainted with Miss Haverstraw. Allow me to wait till she is ready to depart, for it will give me great plea. sure to obtain permission to conduct her home." "That will be/very genteel of you, indeed"-said Mrs. Foster-"I like to see gentlemen polite to ladies. But we may as well go back into the house, for it is getting rather warm here in the sun. There's your posy, sir." Claverton took the vast bouquet with a bow, and ought to have admired the flowers: but he did not, his thoughts running in another channel. On returning to the parlor, he said to his hostess--"Now, my dear Mrs. Foster, do not suffer me to detain you. Probably you may have, at this hour,   THE MAID OF CANAr STREET. some household affairs that require your attention. I will sit here and amuse myself with this newspaper (taking one from his pocket) till Miss Haverstraw comes down." "'Why I cannot say I calculate upon doing anything particular this mbrning"-replied Mrs. Foster-"To be sure I did think of making a pudding for dinner." "By all means then make it"-said:'Claverton-"Oa no account let me prevent you. Use no ceremony with me, or the pudding may not have sufficient time to stew." "Dear sir!-We don't stew puddings." "Well-well-to boil or bake then. My dear madam, do not let me retard this business. A pudding is an excellent thing." "That's according as they are made, and what they are made of"- observed Mrs. Foster--"I have seen puddings that were as heavy as lead, and as hard as stones, and had no more taste than a chunk of dry bread. Thank fortune! I never made such." "I am very sure you never did"-said Claverton--"But time advances dooking at his watch), and I am really afraid this pudding will suffer." Mrs. Foster smiled and departed. And Claverton forgot to amuse him- self with his newspaper; his eyes being perpetually directed towards the door that opened from the front parlor into the little entry. In a few moments the light step of Annetta set his heart to palpitating, and he hastened to meet her as she passed the door. She started back at the sight of Claverton. He advanced, and took her hand; a heightened color suf- fused her cheeks, and his reflected as vivid a glow. "Miss Haverstraw" -said he--"I am delighted to see you-May I request a few moments' conversation?"She inclined her head assentingly: but turned very pale. He led her into the parlor, handed her a chair, beside which he placed one for himself, and becoming suddenly as eloquent as when speaking on an important question in Congress, a candid explanation from him drew one from Annetta which would have been equally candid, only for her surprise and confusion. Their conversation was not limited to a few minutes. Mrs. Foster, being busy in the kitchen with her pudding, did not know that Claverton, in about half an hour, ran out to the front fence, hailed a boy that was passing, and despatched him to bring the gig from the place where it had been left. But when she heard the sound of a vehicle stop- ping at her gate, she and her maids ran to look out from a convenient side- door. They were just in time to see Mr. Claverton hand Miss Haver- straw into his gig, and then spring in after her; she blushing, and looking happy: he looking enraptured, and not blushing at all. "You will never again refuse to ride with me"--said Claverton, as he drove off with Annetta, who smiled and looked down, and felt how the present ride was a consequence of her declining the first. They had turned the corner, and lost sight of the house, before either of them recollected that they had forgotten to take leave of their hostess. Mrs. Foster gazed after them as far as they were to be seen, and then silenced her girl Betsey for saying " they rode just like folks what was en- gaged." Having enjoined both her maids to secrecy, she slipped up stairs to see if Madame Dorsange was yet awake, and then both Nancy and Betsey slipped out at the side-door to inform the neighbors that Miss An- netta Haverstraw had got a sweetheart, and rode off with him to be married. Madame Dorsange lay in a very comfortable sleep, and Mrs. Foster, unwilling to waken her, fidgeted about the room, putting things to rights, or   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.         49 rather changing their places. The old lady's slumber seemed this morning of unusual length; but in about ten minutes Mrs. Foster happened by:some accident to throw down a little japanned waiter that stood on the surbase' behind a small table; and Madame Dorsange instantly awoke. ,' "You've had a very long nap"-observed Mrs. Foster. "Have I?"-said Madame-rubbing her eyes. "Strange things may happen in a house when people's asleep"-pursued Mrs. Foster. "What!"-exclaimed Madame Dorsange, starting up-" has one thief come in, and robbed away some treasure?" "No-no-nothing has been carried off but Miss Annetta Haverstraw." "Ciel-ma belle ange --ma chore enfante! pauvre innocente! Who has done this thing?" "A man that came in out of the street." "Cest incroyable --most extraordinaire!-at least not common." "What do you think"-proceeded Mrs. Foster-" of a very great gen- tleman, a member of Congress even, coming here on particular business with me!" "Je voes fglicite-but oh! Madame Fosterre, hasten to relieve my terrors on this subject of la chore lnnette. I shudder-I tremble-I am not quite easy!" "Well, then, when I left him and went away to make a pudding, he waited on purpose to waylay the dear young lady." "Oh! that fatal poudin! FPainmante! dormeuse! sound-sleeper that I am! Never shall I pardon myself for not awaking at her screams!" "Yes, but she did not scream at all." "Impossible!--ma douce innette! And for him to come en plein jour. Quel audacit! quel insolence! quite bold!" "Well, well, Madame Dorsange"-said Mrs. Foster-" you may com- pose yourself. Miss Annetta seemed very well pleased, and stepped into the gentleman's gig as light as a bird, and with the prettiest smile I ever saw on her face, though she did look down and blush. The truth is, I am much mistaken if Mr. Claverton, the great Congressman, did not pay his addresses to Miss Annetta Haverstraw, this very morning, there in my very parlor; and of course she accepted him, for such a man is not the sort to be refused. Now I remember he said to me that she should not go home in. an omnibus. So he put her into his gig, and they drove off engaged." "Without first asking the consent of her respectable parents"-said Madame Dorsange--"Cest affreuse. It is shocking. Very improper." "Oh! that can be done afterwards"-said Mrs. Foster. "Of course the most important thing to Mr. Claverton was first to get the consent of the young lady herself." "Excusez moi"-replied Madame-" that should always be the second object to consider and not the first, because, selon les rigles, the consent of the young lady can be of no importance till her parents have yielded theirs. That is the mode in la belle France, where, indeed, the parents mostly make the choices, and arrange the marriages themselves." "Well I don't believe it is a mode that is always followed even there" -answered Mrs. Foster. "And it would not suit at all in this country, where it is pretty much, the fashion to marry for love, or at least to pretend you do; and where there is no such thing as forcing either sons or daughters to marry people they don't like. However, there is no fear of Mr. and Mrs. Haverstraw holding out against such a son-in-law as a rich Congress-    50         THE MAID OF CANAL STREET. man and such a handsome one too. From the letters I receive from Oaklands there is no doubt but he is a real prize. My brother always praises him to the skies. 'But if Mr. Claverton is going to^ be married, he will not want any housekeeper but his wife. So I need not trouble myself about chang- ing my home. No wonder he sent me off to make the pudding. Men have so much art and cunning!" Before Claverton had proceeded as far as the Sixth Avenue with Annetta, he had prevailed on her to permit him to come that evening, and offer himself as a candidate for the favor of her parents. By the time they reached Canal street he had become impatient for an immediate interview with Mr. Haverstraw. But on stopping near the door, she made him observe that the shop;jwas full of customers, and that her father was busily engaged. Accordingly, she and her lover parted for the present. As soon as our heroine got into the house, she ran up stairs, anxious to ar-. range her scattered thoughts in the solitude of her own apartment. Her father had not observed her arrival with Claverton, and her mother was engaged at the time in a back room. Annetta remained in her chamber till the dinner-hour. At table the conversation turned chiefly on Madame Dorsange; but only a small part of it was sustained by the young lady. Afterwards, when alone with her mother, Annetta made one or two attempts to acquaint her with the events of the morning, but the words died on her lips; and finally resolving to leave the whole disclosure to Claverton, she again retired to her own apart- ment. Instead of waiting till evening, the lover arrived at five o'clock in the afternoon, obtained his interview with her parents, and was made super- latively happy by, their consent to his union with their daughter; Mr. Haverstraw prudently stipulating for the proviso of -withdrawing that con- sent, if, on inquiry, anything should transpire unfavorable to the moral character or political integrity of Mr. Claverton; a test by which the mem- ber of Congress was perfectly willing to abide. To be brief-in about two months, Harley Claverton and Annetta Haverstraw were married, one morning, in St. Paul's Church; and imme- diately after the ceremony (at which Madame Dorsange-and Mrs. Foster were present) they set out for the Oaklands, having previously sent on their new furniture. The house was soon arranged, and when all was complete, the Clavertons sent for Mr. and Mrs. Haverstraw, to make them a visit. We need not say it was a delightful one. Mrs. Foster;, for the present, concluded to remain in her own house boarding Madame Dorsange till spring; at which time the son of the latter returned from a successful and profitable voyage, got married, and took his mother to live with himself and his wife, a very amiable young girl; the old lady meanwhile having recovered from the disorder in her eyes, and nearly lost her rhetumatism. The following summer she visited by special invitation the Oaklands, where Mrs. Foster eventually became housekeeper, having been induced to sell her little domain at a most tempt- ing price, as a new street was laid out, and to be built up in that very place. About the middle of the winter, Mr. Haverstraw received a letter sealed with black, from his son-in-law Kester Krips De Kronk, who was still in London. It apprised him, in melancholy terms, of the loss of Mrs. De Kronk, who had died, after a few days illness, in consequence of an inflammatory cold caught by standing in full dress at an open window, on a-rainy day, for the purpose of seeing the queen go by. But his grief   THE MAID OF CANAL STREET.         51 (however great at first) was not inconsolable, and after a pleasant tour on the Continent, the widower returnedto New York the following autumn in excellent health and spirits; in short, quite a new plan. To revert to our hero and heroine--they have not yet ceased to disco- ver every day some additional perfection in each other; and their married life bids fair to be a most happy one. Claverton wonders at himself for not having immediately perceived that Annetta was the most charming girl in the world; but Annetta very well understands why, on their first acquaintance, she never felt at ease in the presence of Claverton. We conclude by advising gentlemen not to judge too severely of any young ladies whom they may find under the guidance of such a chaperon as is evidently anxious to make a match for her charge: and to remember that this is a feat of which most chaperons are ambitious. Let them believe it possible that the young lady herself (however appearances are against her) may really take no part whatever in the plan, except to deprecate it whenever she has an opportunity; that it may be all the time irksome, mortifying, and disgusting to her beyond expression. And that, could the whole truth be developed, they would find in many an un- fortunate girl (to whose position the folly of some and the ill-nature of others have given a false coloring). the mind, the heart, and the artless modesty that we have endeavored to depict in the character of Annetta Haverstraw. oil   THE BLOXHAMS; OR, THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS. A STORY OF THE LAST CENTURY. " PATTY"-said Laurence Mayfield to his wife, as they sat at the supper table on the evening of his return from a visit to the chief town of the State of Delaware-" I have at last met with a good Englishman."' The Mayfield children being all ultra American, looked astonished at this avowal, and thought that for once their father must be mistaken. Tommy Tring, a privileged character, and an old revolutionary patriot (as he called himself) who chanced to be then at the Mayfield farm exercising his vocation of tailor in making clothes for the servants, shook his head and said--" Seeing's believing. However, I won't be too hard on the British, poor defeated creatures. Give a dog a bad name and hang him. Now, squire, what does this Englishman call himself?" "He is a Mr. Bloxham"-resumed Mr. Mayfield, who being a magis- trate, answered to the title of squire-" and has just arrived from London with all his family. I found them staying at the Spread Eagle at Wil- mington. His sole purpose, in coming to America, is to give his children the advantages of being brought up under a republican government." "Oh ! what an excellent father !" exclaimed the youthful Mayfields. "They arrived from London a few days since," continued the squire- "but hearing from the pilot that there had been a few cases of yellow fever in Philadelphia some time last month, and their fears of contagion being very great, as is the case with most English people-" " They are fearfully and wonderfully made !" ejaculated Tommy Tring. " Instead of proceeding at once to the city," continued Squire Mayfield, " they landed at Wilmington, determined'not to go to Philadelphia till after the infected atmosphere should be Cleared by a heavy fall of snow. I told them that if there was any danger now (which certainly there is not) the -first frost would make all safe. Buti on this point I found it very hard to convince Mr. Bloxham, and quite impossible to persuade his wife, who begged me to %y nothing more on the subject, as her mind was made up." "And are they going to stay at Wilmington till frost comes?"--inquired Mrs. Mayfield.   THE BLOXHAMS.                    53   "I believe that is their present intention"--replied the squire. "We will not talk about Mrs. Bloxham, who after all may be an excellent woman. And, indeed, I saw or heard but little of her, as she staid up stairs with the children nearly all the time; and I was entirely engrossed by the con- versation of her husband, who is an amazingly clever man, and of the right way of thinking with regard to monarchy. Nothing can equal his contempt for George the Third, and all other kings, and his scorn and detestation of the nobility, and of the whole system of the British govern- ment. I could have listened to him forever. He told me things that astounded me." "Dear father," said Brooke Mayfield-a boy about nine years old--"I wish I had been with you; I should have liked so-much to hear something wonderful. Here on the farm nothing astounds me much but Mingo, who, I sometimes think, must be like Sidi Norman, in the Arabian Nights, not a real dog, but a man in the shape of one." "I have only been in company with three Englishmen since the battle of Brandywine," said Tommy Tring-" and the two first spoke such broad English I could not understand them, and the third was too great to open his lips before anybody. But what of that? A cat may look on a king: and I have seen General Washington. Staying always here in the country and just visiting round among Major Russel Campion's, and Colo- nel Arneliffe's, and this present house of little Patty's, I ha'n't much chance of seeing what the British are like now. But as they did not follow our pattern when we set them such a good one, in getting rid of the king and queen, I can't say I have much respect for any of the Englishers. How- ever, for want of company welcome trumpery.  The day I fought at Brandywine- "Morris," interrupted Mrs. Mayfield, addressing her eldest son-", give Tommy Tring another slice of ham, and let him get forward with his sup- per. And so my dear (to her husband) you have at last met with an Englishman that pleases you. Indeed I am very glad of it, for I desired to feel better towards the whole nation. They are certainly a very great people. Now I did really like- Captain Effingham who was wounded at Brandywine by my brother Russel, and brought to our house at Sycamore Hill, where we made him stay till he was cured. I remember him per- fectly, though quite a little girl at the time. He was not only very hand- some, but very sensible and polite, and kind-hearted beside. He used to amuse me by the hour with telling me stories about England. We were all very sorry when he left us, Englishman as he was." " It was a great providence"-said Tommy Tring--"<4 that your sister Sidney Campion was preserved from falling in love with him. He was a right personable and well-behaved young gentleman, in spite of his red coat. Though, as the truth should not be spoken at all times, I took care not to say so, for fear of putting it into Sidney's head to like a Britisher, and betray her country. , He had read loads of books, and knew a heap of verses by heart; and verses always takes with young gals what's quiet. Still water runs deep. As to romps and tomboys, them what climbs trees to the top limb, and jumps a pair of bars instead of letting them down, and wades creeks, and rides horsed bare-back, all poetery's lost upon them. ButSidney. was none of those; though she had spunk enoug when wanted. It was a crowning mercy that she was spared from marrying the British captain, when he right down axed her; for her brother Russel would have fired the house rather than that wedding had took place. However, we    54           TTHE BLOXHAMS, were saved by a miracle, which was that our young gal could not fancy a foreigner. And when he kept op, and would not be satisfied with being refused by word of mouth, did not Sidney give at last a right down positive flat by note of hand? I saw the billy-duck myself, all folded and sealed. I had a sort of misgiving that his packed trunk, all ready for a start, would soften her heart, for packed trunks is a sight that gals can hardly bear. But our Sidney was as firm as Iron Hill. To be sure she did look a little pale for a day or two after he was gone, and did not talk much, but we all agreed to take no notice; so it went off by gradual degrees. And then wasn't she paid for all when Lieutenant Arncliffe what is a colonel now, came in his blue regimentals and red facings, with his arm in a black silk sling (which last the women always call interesting, by which they mean pitifuD having got his wound a fighting for Congress at the battle of Brandy- wine, where I fought myself---" "Tommy"-said Mrs. Mayfield-" there is Benjamin Broadman going by with his wagon to Wilmington market. Just step out, and get the truth about old Gumpert's will, and learn if he really left all to his young wife; and ask if Mary Machride is to be married this Thursday or next; and inquire the rest of the news up the water." Tommy Tring complied-and the hospitable Mrs. Mayfield said to her husband--"My dear, did you not ask this English family, these strangers in a foreign land, to make us a visit before they leave Wilmington?" "Certainly I did"-replied the squire-- and Mr. Bloxham said they would come with all the pleasure in life; so I named Thursday, and then they are all cothing to spend the day with us."' "That's right"-said Mrs. Mayfield-"we shall have to-morrow to prepare. As they are English, it is rather unlucky Tommy Tring should be with us just now. He will be talking abbut the battle of Brandywine, and Washington, and other things that cannot be agreeable to English people. But he has been so long among us, and thinks so much of every one that was brought up at Sycamore Hill, and of all our connections round,' and we have allowed him such freedom and familiarity always, that we cannot now begin to frown on him or silence him, poor old fellow. You know we are accustomed to his ways, and his sayings; therefore, we do not remark them as strangers would." "There is no fear of their taking offence at Tommy Tring"-said the squire. "Mr. Bloxham is, if possible, more of a republican than I am myself. He is quite anxious to see revolutionary soldiers, and thought I had been in the war myself, till I made him understand that unfortunately I was at that time a little boy." "Then of course his wife and family think and feel as he does"-ob- served Mrs. Mayfield--"I am. glad to hear this. Perhaps then, so far from being offended at Tommy Tring, they may consider him rather pleasing." "I doubt that"-said the squire--" but, I think Tommy has tact enough to be on his guard before them. We will send the coachee for the whole family, as I promised." "Dear father, let me drive it"--said Morris Mayfield-a stout, hand- some boy of sixteen. Mr. Mayfi4 assented; and Tommy Tring coming in-Mrs. Mayfield said to him- "Tommy, as we wish to make everything as agreeable as possible to   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.        55 our English visitors, you had best not mention the battle of Brandywine, on Thursday." "A word to the wise"-said Tommy Tring-putting his fingers on his lips-"Old foxes need no tutorers. Now there's no war, I won't be hash with the British." On the appointed morning, Morris Mayfield harnessed a pair of very stout, fine horses to the family carriage, or coachee as it was called, a capacious vehicle painted Spanish brown, with green wheels. It was decorated with inside curtains of yellow moreen, looped up and fringed with red, ard was furnished with three seats, according to the fashion of country carriages of those days, all the occupants sitting with their faces towards the horses. On arriving at Wilmington, Morris Mayfield drove rapidly to the door of the Spread Eagle, and consigning the horses to the hostler, with orders to feed and water them, he jumped down, and making his way to the bar, inquired for the English gentleman, Mr. Bloxham. "There's an English- man here, sure enough"-answered the barkeeper-" and he put down his name Bloxham. That's he in the white hat, watching his baggage in the porch. He's terribly afraid of thieves." Morris went out, and saw a tall, thin, sallow-faced man, with blue black hair and chin. Though it was a bright, warm morning, early in September, Mr. Bloxham was habited in two coats, a dark brown close one, and a drab surtout; and he wore also a red cloth waistcoat figured with black, and a red and yellow silk handkerchief tied about his neck, over his white cravat. He was pacing half the porch, and keeping guard over half a dozen hair trunks that looked as if they had " seen some little service," sundry bags and baskets; and three or four bandboxes " tied above, around, and underneath" with relics of faded ribbons eked out with strips of old hems taken from old silk skirts; notwithstanding which, specimens of the contents of these over-filled boxes were oozing out from beneath the lids, or threatening escape by bursting through the bottoms. Great confidence seemed to be reposed in the bandages. Morris Mayfield introduced himself to Mr. Bloxham, and explained that he had brought his father's coachee for the family. "I am much obliged to you"-said Bloxham--"but pray, my lad, what proof do you bring of being really what you say?" At this novel salutation, the. American boy colored to the eyes, and bit his lip till it almost bled; at the same time involuntarily drawing back his arms and clinching his hands. "Have you brought me a note from Mr. Hayfield?"-continued Blox-  ham--("I believe that is the name he gave me)-any evidence, in black and  white, that I may trust myself and family with you?"       . "Neither I nor my father thought of such a thing"-replied Morris-- '- "But if you are not willing to go with me, I am perfectly willing to drive  home without you." The, landlord of the hotel now interfered, and assured Bloxham that this was really Robert Morris Mayfield, the eldest son of Squire Mayfield, of Maplewood. "Well, my good boy"-said Bloxham-" let this be a lesson to you, always on these occasions to bring your credentials." "I am not a good boy"--answered Morris-" and suoh an occasion may never occur again." "I cannot be too careful of my family"-resumed Bloxham-"The world;is full of impostors."   THE BLOXHAMS, "I know not what an impostor could gain in this case"-observed the landlord, half aside. "Mr. Bloxham"-said Morris with spirit-"Mr. Mayfield, having met you at this hotel and invited you to visit him to-day, has sent me to bring you and your family according to appointment. I am his son, and this is his coachee." " Coachee"-repeated Bloxham--" that, I suppose, is American for coach"-taking out a very old pocket-book and writing on one of the vellum leaves-" yes-yes-I now understand. Your father is really a nice person; and it was quite a civil thing in him to ask us at sight. But you are monstrous early. You Americans are always too early. My wife has all the children to get ready; for the maid we brought over with us is already good for nothing. She left off caps the day after we landed, and in forty-eight hours she gave up calling us master and mistress. If you will stay here and watch the baggage, I'll go and hurry Mrs. B. and the children." He then departed up stairs; and the landlord said to Morris-" They've given up going to Philadelphia-they are so afraid of what they call the dregs of the yellow fever. So they've concluded to. turn their course to- wards Baltimore, and take your house in the way. Your father told them it was only a little piece off the road." " Well-they're clear of my house to-day any how"-continued the land- lord-" I gave Mr. Bloxham his bill this morning, and from what I've heard they'd have been charged three times as much in their own country. But he grumbled enough about it, and made me take off three fippenny bits. They're a queer set, I can tell you; but for one day I reckon you can get through with them. But here-comes the whole fry." A long procession now issued from the front door, headed by Mr. Bloxham, on whose arm hung his wife, who called herself a little woman, but was in reality only a short one; having great length of body, and re- markably brief legs; a large head, and high-colored dumpy features. She wore a green velvet bonnet and feathers, faded in bluish streaks; a gown, not new, of claret-colored tabbinet trimmed with brown black velvet, and a defaced wadded shawl of deep blue silk lined with yellow. She was fol- lowed by six children, some looking like the father, some like the mother, and some like both. The younger they were the more chuffy and pluffy; the elder ones were thinner as they ascended. The tall ones were begin- ning to be knock-kneed, and the short ones were already bandy. None of their legs were quite right; notwithstanding which, the frocks of the girls were all kilts, and instead of pantalets, they had very long stockings. With their buff gingham frocks, they wore faded purple velvet spencers, all of which looked outgrown; and their heads and faces were perspiring in large, close, mouse-colored beaver bonnets. The boys melted under fur caps, and suits of olive velveteen. Seventh and last, came an immense red baby in a white frock with the skirt shorter than the body, displaying a pair of enormous bare legs. On its head was a cap redolent of coarse lace, appearing from beneath a faded and soiled pink beaver hat, turned up directly in front with a great whitish cockade. The baby was carried by a robust, ruddy, and rather handsome- faced nurse-maid in a black bonnet, yellow cotton gown, and black worsted stockings. How is it that the common class of English people, on arriving in America, seem to take no note of season, but generally wear their winter   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.             57   garments in summer weather-complaining all the time of the heat of' our climate, and melting with perspiration under such heavy and ill;judged clothing-? Is it from their ever-besetting fear of catching cold; or on a sort of homoeopathic principle, that whatever produces heat will keep it off ? "Mrs. B."-said Bloxham to his wife-" this young lad is Master Hay- field. Master Hayfield, this is Mrs. B." "Mayfield, sir"-corrected Morris. "Aye, aye-right-Hay or May-no great difference. Come, Mrs. B.; will it please your ladyship to get in ?" " Where's the coachman ?" said Mrs. B., looking round, alarmedly. " I am to drive"-said Morris. "You !"-screamed Mrs. Bloxham-" you, a young lad-a little boy- a child!" " Child as I am"-said Morris-" I have driven my mother and sisters many a time, and in a dark night, too." " Mercy on us !"-exclaimed Mrs. Bloxham-" these American people don't value their lives at a pin. To be sure, I don't know why they should. But how can they expect ladies and gentlemen from England to risk theirs along with them?  No-no-ours are too precious." " Well"-said Morris--" I can walk home very well; it is but six miles. And if Mr. Bloxham chooses to drive, I am very willing he should, if you think it safer." " Mr. Bloxham !" shrieked the wife. "Worse and worse. He never drove anything in his life." "Perhaps you are out there, Mrs. B."-said Bloxham. " But Eng- lish driving and American driving I have already perceived to be very different things. There is, also, some difference between bowling along on roads as smooth as velvet, and knocking about among snags and saw- yers, or whatever they are called." "I suppose he means stones and stumps"- said the landlord to Morris. "Are there no coachmen to be had ?"-inquired' Mrs. Bloxham, in a rueful tone; while Morris, with his arms across and his whip in his hand, stood indignantly leaning against a post to which the reins were fastened. The landlord then took Bloxham aside, and convinced him that Morris Mayfield's driving would be perfectly safe. Finally, Mr. Bloxham and family were prevailed on to stow themselves into the coachee, on condi- tion that the horses should be made to go "slow and sure"-and the bag- gage was put on and put in. Mr. Bloxham, at his wife's command, seated himself beside Morris, to be ready in case of accidents-holding on his lap a tall, long-legged girl, who was their eldest, and for whom Mrs. Blox- ham cared the least. At last they started, and were in a few minutes out of Wilmington, and proceeding along a road which the Bloxhams could not but perceive was a very fine one, though they did not say so. "So you are Mr. Hayfield's son and heir ?" said Bloxham to Morris. "His eldest son"-replied Morris-" but no more his heir than my brothers and sisters." "Pray, what may your father's estate be worth ?"-inquired Bloxham. "How much land has he ?" Morris mentioned the number of acres, and Bloxham put it down in his pocket-book. "He keeps hounds, of course !" said Bloxham.   58            THE BLOXHAMS, "That he does"--replied Morris. "We have two--Rove and Ring" -(Bloxham looked contemptuously)--" besides a great Newfoundland dog that dragged my little sister out of the creek when she fell off the log bridge. And I have a pointer of my own, that I go a gunning with ; I would not take a hundred dollars for him. When he was only a pup two months old, a boy came into the house with two quails in a cage, and Mingo pointed them directly." "Then I suppose he would run down and catch any sort of game?"- said Bloxham.     I "A pointer never catches the game at all"--replied Morris; '" he only finds it by scent, and shows where it is by standing perfectly still with his nose straight forward.          . "Oh, of course"--said Bloxham-" we all know that." They now came in view of a fine peach orchard, and Morris drove up to the fenee and gathered a hat-full from the loaded and overhanging branches. "Stop, stop"-said Bloxham---" there are two men in the orchard who will see you." "No matter if they do"-said Morris. "Why, they'll have you taken up for stealing fruit." "Not the least danger"-replied Morris, smiling, and distributing the peaches. "Everybody may take a little fruit from trees growing near the road. And if I was. to jump over the fence and get a few peaches from the trees inside, nobody would think it amiss. Fruit is very plenty here, and no one grudges a little of it to strangers." - "Say you so?"-said Bloxham-" then I don't see why we should not avail ourselves of the liberty. Come, Mrs. B., let us all get out. We'll liftsyou and the children over the fence, and take our satisfaction of peaches. We'll eat and pocket as many as we can, now we have a. chance. Sup- pose we empty the baskets of their contents, and fill them with peaches, too? I should like to break off some of those loaded branches." "Lordi, Mr. B."--cried Mrs. Bloxham--"did you never see peaches before? However, as you say, we may as well get out and take our full satisfaction." "I think not"-said Morris. "The owner of the orchard, though a very generous man, would hardly like such very full satisfaction -to be taken by travellers. But if you will wait, till you arrive at my father's, you will find there two very fine peach orchards, where you may have as many as you can eat or carry away." "Drive on, then"-said Bloxham, rubbing his hands and smacking his lips. "After all"-observed Mrs. B., while devouring a fine, ripe, purple and yellow free-stone-" your American peaches have nothing like the flavor of ours. Your sun must be too hot for them." "' Ma"--said one of the boys, named Horne Tooke, pulling hus mother's gown--" did you ever eat a peach in England? I never did. Papa never bought any; and nobody gave us peaches where we visited. Peaches there are only for rich people," His mother silenced him with a stern look and a shake of the shoulder; and the maid Molly giggled, having become very disrespectful since her arrival in America. "What are those tall plants with the long, green leaves?"-inquired Bloxham. "That is a field of corn"r--replied Morris.   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.       59 "Corn-corn?"-exclaimed Bloxham. "You are certainly mistaken." "Corn, indeed!"- echoed Mrs. B., tossing her head. Molly tossed hers too, and giggled again. You must be humnming us to call that corn"-said Bloxham. 'What is it, then?"-said Morris. "I should rather call it a species of sugar cane"--replied Bloxham-- "or else bamboo." "I know it's bamboo"--said Horne Tooke. "And I know it is Indian corn"--said Morris. 'I remember now that in England wheat is called corn." Next t!; came to a buckwheat field in blossom, and the children began to snuff their noses, saying--"What a good smell." "bI don't know"--said Mrs. Bloxham. "To me it is rather disagree. able." "That's because you never smelt anything like it before"-said Horne Tooke. "What is it?"-said Mrs. Bloxham. "Mr. B., what is this monstrous bed of small, white flowers?" "I believe it is a species of sweet herb"-replied Bloxham. Morris explained the buckwheat, and this time was believed, though they did not say so. At length they came in sight of the substantial stone mansion of Squire Mayfield, with its vast barn constructed of the same solid material, and its numerous out-houses. "'This is my father's place"-said Morris. "Very fair, indeed!  iReally, very fair. Quite a nice thing"-said Bloxham, in an under voice to his wife. "Hush"-she replied, in the same tone-" if you think so, don't say so; the boy will hear you. What a ninny you are!" "I perceive"--said Bloxham, aloud to Morris---" that none of your cottages and farm-houses have thatched roofs. Very extraordinary--very extraordinary, indeed! Quite inconceivable!" "Not at all"-answered Morris. "Wood is plenty enough all over America. When shingles are always to be had, where would be the use of thatching with straw, which cannot last as long, dries slowly when wet, and when dry, catches fire like tow?" - They now came in front of the house, which was shaded by fine trees, and Morris stopped the carriage at a broad horse-block of stone, on which all the Bloxhams, in process of time, were safely landed. They were met at the gate by Mr. and Mrs. Mayfield and the whole family; Tommy Tring bringing up the rear. The younger portion of the black servants belonging to the establishment had dispersed themselves about the fences; the biggest boys and girls were sitting on the top rails--the picaninies peeping through the bars, most of them having pieces of pie in their hands. 'The elder female domestics looked out from the side doors; and two of the men were at hand to unload the .vehicle of the baggage. The guests were greeted with a smiling welcome; but it cannot be denied that the tout ensemble of their appearance caused some disappointment; and their quantity of trunks and boxes seemed rather puzzling, till Morris took an opportunity of telling his mother that Mr. Bloxham and family-were on their way to Baltimore. Tommy Tring surveyed the strangers with a look of disapproval; but did himself the violence of keeping silent, except to say hintingly to one of   60            THE BLOXHAMS, the servants who passed him in carrying in a trunk--"Pompey, you needn't think much of these Britishers. They're not the best quality-nothing superfine about them. I've determined to keep aloof. Evil communication corrupts good manners." The guests were ushered into the large sitting-room, where they were invited to partake of a profuse luncheon of cakes and pies, accompanied by some excellent spruce beer, of which, after drinking two glasses, Mr. Blox- ham remarked--"Excuse me, Mr. Mayfield, America is a fine country- but I fear republics do not shine in breweries. Now, this American porter of yours (excuse me again) is not quite equal to Whithread's Intire." Mr. Mayfield explained what it really was, though Morris gave his father a look that signified---"Don't tell him." After the luncheon, to which the guests did ample justice, Mrs. Mayfield accompanied the females and the youngest children up stairs; and, as they complained loudly of the heat, she lent them all loose gowns belonging to herself and daughters-not forgetting to offer one to the maid Molly, who giggled at it exceedingly. Mrs. Mayfield left them to rest themselves till dinner-time; but in a few minutes the children were scampering about the- stairs, and running through all parts of the house. Meanwhile, Mr. Bloxham and Mr. Mayfield sat together in the porch, engaged in what was termed by the former a political conversation, in the course of which he was peculiarly diffuse on the vices of the English nobility and the crimes of the ministry, always very favorite subjects with the class to which Bloxham belonged. These were the same sort of people that, at a later period, were called radicals, and of whom few but the most unfavorable specimens seem to have visited America. "I could tell you things"-pursued Bloxham--" that would make your hair stand on end-things that have never been allowed to get into print- and that, in fettered, manacled, chained-tup England, would, if barely men- tioned, subject the discloser to fine, imprisonment, transportation. Alas for my country!-alas for white-cliffed Albion!-alas for old John Bull!" "t I am sorry to hear all this"--observed Mr. Mayfield. "From what you tell me, England must be in a most pitiable condition." "Never mind"--spoke the boy Horne Tooke, who, like a mischievous sprite, was always gliding about unperceived, and seen and heard unex- pectedly, and who was now kicking his heels on a chair beside them-- "never mind, papa is only speaking one of his speeches-such as he makes at meetings in the fields." '"But how could these astounding things to which you have alluded be- come known at all"-inquired Mr. Mayfield--" if telling them places the relator in danger of such severe penalties?" "There you have him"-exclaimed Horne Toqke. "Pa, what do you say to that?" Bloxham turned aside to the boy, and frowned threateningly at him; but the boy knew by experience that a frown was all he had to fear, there- fore he did not fear it at all; so he grinned a laugh, and gave his father what is elegantly termed in England a poke in the ribs-a refined enforcement of the action to the word, which we believe is peculiar to British society, and which the precocious Horne Tooke had learnt already. "Really, sir"-said Bloxham to Mr. Mayfield-" upon my word, sir- excuse me, sir, but I begin to suspect that what I have heard of the Yankee character is true. Confess, candidly, are not you Yankees a leetle--a very leetle inquisitive?"   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.       0l "I am not a Yankee"-replied Mr. Mayfield. "No offence, I hope?"--said Bloxham. "None in the least"--answered Mayfield, smiling-"I should rather consider it an honor to belong to that section of the Union. The light of American liberty first dawned in the east." "Oh!-aye--true"-replied Bloxhalf. "I remember now your revo- lution began with the Boston farmers. Yes--yes, they fought a battle in their cow-pens. Rather a singular field! Quite different from the battle- grounds of Europe. Your forces must have been a little cramped or so, for want of room. And you had another great fight, too, at a place called Mud Fort, somewhere in the neighborhood of the Dismal Swamp. A cu- rious idea that, to construct a fort of mud. And then there was a brandy- wine battle-so called, I suppose, from its being lost by fighting under the influence of Bacchus. Rather odd, however, to give it a name in com- memoration of that circumstance. Excuse me, but, candidly speaking, I do not perceive that your American battles seem to shine in names." "What do you think of Monmouth and Trenton, Saratogatand York- town?"--inquired Mr. Mayfield. "Quite fair-very fair, indeed! All of them English except one. To what do those names refer?" "To certaii places where the arms of America triumphed"-replied Mayfield. "The last particularly." "It is somewhat difficult to keep the run of your battles"-observed Bloxham.  "Excuse me, but they were rather petty affairs-quite on a small scale. Few persons seem to have been killed in them." "So much the better, provided they effected the desired purpose"--re- plied Mr. Mayfield. "If our battles were small compared to the slaugh- ter-fields of Europe, their results have been gigantic." "As how, pray?"-said Bloxham. "We will converse on some other subject"-said Mayfield, recollecting his character of host, and becoming apprehensive that he might be led into some remarks not quite agreeable to his guest. "I would rather, Mr. Blox- ham, hear you talk of England than of America, believing that it will naturally give you pleasure to do so." "With all my heart"--said Bloxham. "I knew you would say that"-remarked Horne Tooke. "I remember one day"--pursued Bloxham-" one day in the lobby of the House of Commons, I overtook my friend Fox, who seemed quite in a brown study with those shaggy brows of his. ' Well, Charley'-said I, clapping him on the shoulder-- a penny for your thoughts.'" "Did he take your penny?"-said Horne Tooke. "Give me a penny for mine, and I'll tell you what they are." "Just at that moment"--continued Bloxham--1' up came Sheridan, with -his bright black eyes. I was always fond of a joke with Brinsley, and sometimes he found me rather too much for him. 'Sherry!'--said H-' I hear you and the prince had a grand blow-out last night at Carlton House. Pray, did you  put him under the table or he you?' While we were all laughing together, Fox, Sheridan and I, who should come along but Billy Pitt, with that interminable nose of his? He scowled at us as if he thought we were laying our heads together and plotting treason." "I thought you were all laughing"--interrupted Horne Tooke. "To tell you the truth, Mr. Mayfield"-pursued Bloxham-"' if he had suspected us of treasonable sentiments, perhaps-but remember this is a   62            THE BLOXHAMS, state secret-perhaps he would not have been far wrong. But this is only between you and I." "And me"-said Horne Tooke. "Talk of treason -continued Bloxham-'"I could tell you of midnight meetings in strange places; and sitting in conclave, and debating on the means of shaking England to its foundation." "But you did not do it"-said Horne Tooke. "You never even shook me; and you never as much as took me by the collar but once, and then you had to let go directly." "I had become celebrated"-pursued Bloxham-" by my speeches in Cold Bath Fields, and by addressing a great democratic meeting at Copen- hagen House. I was feared, sir; I was feared and formidable, though I say it that should not say it." "Then why do you?"-asked Horne Tooke. "I was wanted, sir; I was wanted"-continued Bloxham. "The op- position knew that I was a tower of strength to walk in among the people, and tell them how their noses were kept to the grindstone. Yes, sir, I could tell you of our night meetings in strange places."  "Taverns, perhaps"-said Mr. Mayfield.    -.... X      ? "Thley are not so strange"-said Home Took .  '.  "It was just like Venice Preserved"-pursu Bloxham. "Indeed, one '\  of us had performed in that play (private theatricals, of course), and knew  exactly how to do a plot." "That's the play you always take us to"-said Horne Tooke., "Ive  got quite tired of it, and so have the other children. And the pit's always I  so full when it's acted, we're squeezed up to nothing; above all, when ma' t goes. I know one of the speeches by heart, I heard it so often, and it wa the only one I liked-  'Final destruction seize on all the world."' "We were sworn to a solemn and perpetual secrecy" T  Blox- ham-" just like the patriot band of conspirators in Venice rived, and we took hands upon it together. Would you like to have an idea of our plan? We were to seize the Tower-the Tower of London, sir; and then we were to take the guns up the Thames to Windsor Castle, and attack that-after which we were to burn Westminster Abbey, and anni- hilate the tombs of the kings and nobles, and the poets that flattered them. We were all to give up hats and wear liberty-caps. That was my pro- posal. A certain duke, who was one of our Spartan band, had a joke about it. He said it would raise the price of red flannel. Ha! ha! ha! I think I hear him saying it. We never knew before that his grace was a wit." "And you did not know it then"-said Horne Tooke. "He was a whole oak-tree in our helmet"--continued Bloxham. "You know it was a glorious thing to have noblemen among us; and I assure you, he was not the only one of our band that rode in a coach with a coronet on it." "From what you Jlave told me of British noblemen"-said Mayfield- "I should suppose they could be of no advantage to any cause, much less that of liberty." ,' Ahem-aha-ahem"-continued Bloxham--" to be sure our nobility are rather a bad set, particularly the Howards, whom Pope, the poet, says, are all fools and cowards. But then we only intended to make tools of   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.        68 them-a sort of cat's paws. We held ourselves above them. But still it is always good policy to have an eye to the million. We must throw a tub to the whale, and-put a feather in its cap. There can't be much done in England on any side, unless we can get the countenance of a few titled men. A lord goes a great way, and a duke farther still-as I said, one day, to his grace the Duke of Bedford, and he was pleased with the compli- ment. But as to the mass of the nobility-the ministerial ones, I mean- numerous as they are, we had the satisfaction of expecting to make them shake in their shoes. I was celebrated for giving them powerful looks whenever I met them. I had a knack of it." "Were they the same sort of looks you try to give me?"--said Home Tooke. "I recollect once, in coming out of the House of Lords, the Duke of Richmond was gassing slowly through the crowd on his way to his car- riage, when I kept darting at him a series of my piercing glances, every one of which told. I saw that; and I distinctly heard him say to Lord Hawkesbury, who was close beside him-' What's that fellov blinking at me for?'" "Pa"-said Home Tooke-"I think you'd better keep such things to yourself." They were now interrupted by a summons to dinner, ai which Tommy Tring was not present-he preferring to dine in another room with the Mayfield children. The dinner was profuse and excellent-the first the Bloxhams had eaten at a private house since their arrival. Mrs. Bloxham, however, carefully abstained from tasting of any article peculiarly American, and she also en- deavored to prevent her children from doing so-telling them these strange things might disagree with them. "Why, ma"-said Horne Tooke-" you let us eat all sorts of strange things at the, Spread Eagle."  "That was to give you an opportunity of satisfying your curiosity. But they did you a great deal of harm." "When and how?"-persisted the boy. "How were we the worse for them, and what harm did they do us? Tell me that. You can't say we were one moment sick-any of us." His mother endeavored to silence him; but his father tried to laugh, and said-- "Mrs. B., you'd better let young hopeful alone. You'll find him too hard for you." ,.  "He's worse than ever siice he came to America"-murmured Mrs. Bloxham. "A clever lad, sir"-continued Bloxham, turning to Mr. Mayfield-" a cleVe lad, as you may-easily perceive. He'll make a figure in the World yet. You'll have him legislating for you in your House of Congresis be- fore fifteen years, and helping to guide, with tongue of fire, the restless rudder of your government." "Tell me why"-persisted Home Tooke-still addressing his mother "tell me why we were allowed to eat squashes, and sweet potatoes, and pot-pie, and pumpkin-pudding, and everything on the table, when we were at the Spread Eagle." "Horne Tooke, my boy"-said Mr. Bloxham-" you are certainly sharp enough to understand that when we are at an inn, and a public table, where we pay all the same, eat or no eat, it is advisable to indulge ourselves with   "           THE BLOXHAMS, everything that is to be had; so as to be quite sure of getting the worth of our money. You know we did the- same on board of ship. Now some of the passengers were always complaining of the length of the voyage; but I always laughed, and said-I did not care if it lasted two months, as long as we were on the captain's keep. Ha, ha, ha-that's me exactly-- there's nothing like having the full worth of one's money," "But here in this house we pay no money at all"-said Horne Tooke --" and that is better still. Ma', I know very well what you are at. You want us to hate everything in America; and so you're afraid to let us eat any more of their nice victuals." "The child does not know what he's talking about"-said Mrs. Blox- ham. "Yes I do"--said Horne Tooke--"Pa' says I always have my wits about me. I know I am the brightest of the family--thy only bright one, too." "Mr. B."-said his wife--"I told you it would be so. There's some- thing in thvair of this country that is not fit for English children. It makes them rude and saucy, and unbiddable from the moment they set their feet on the land of liberty, as you call it." "Why, I was just as had at home"-said Horne Tooke--" and I dare say a great deaf worse; for I had not half such good times." Dinner was at length over; and as they adjourned to the front parlor, Bloxham whispered to his wife--"This squire is a capital fellow--I never sat down to a better feed." "Be quiet," said Mrs. Bloxham---".some of the family may hear you." In the cool of the afternoon, Mr. Mayfield showed his guests round the farm; and the Bloxham children were made free of the two peach orchards ; having previously made themselves so in the forenoon. Bloxham seemed to look about, but in reality saw nothing; for his whole attention was en- grossed by hearing himself relate paltry and scandalous anecdotes of the king and queen, with laudatory digressions on Fox, Sheridan, and the Duke of Bedford ; talking of all these distinguished men as familiarly "as maids of thirteen do of puppy-dogs." He even hinted that through his intimacy with Sheridan he was no stranger to the Prince of Wales, whom- he praised without measure, as a noble, generous fellow that was always in debt, and whose feelings went entirely with the people; the said people being all bursting with impatience for the time to arrive when he should begin to reign over them. "You know of course"--continued Bloxham-" that the prince is in the opposition. The heir apparent always is, I can assure you, sir (and I / have had private opportunities of knowing); his royal highness (heaven bless him!) is a republican at heart: a thorough democrat." "That is strange"-observed Mr. Mayfield-'- it is certainly nht his business to be so." "Then the greater the patriotism"--pursued Bloxham--"To see how his royal highness goes to the balls of untitled persons: and how agreeable he makes himself to ladies that are plain Miss and Mrs.; even asking them to dance. Yes--yes, he carries in-his heart's core the hammer that is to strike off the grinding chains of king-ridden England." In the meantime Mrs. Bloxham was walking with Mrs. Mayfield, and entertaining her with accounts of the vast superiority of everything in England to everything in America. As an episode, she introduced a minute description of the Lord Mayor's show, a spectacle which her son,   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.        65 Horne Tooke (who followed close behind) averred was nothing in com- parison to Bartlemy fair, and not half so productive of fun as. Guy Faux day. The tea-table went on much in the same manner as the dinner-table; except that the children followed the example of Horne Tooke, and helped themselves voraciously to -cakes, honey, and sweetmeats; their mother no longer essaying to check them. As soon as Mrs. Mayfield had found that the Bloxhams were on their way to Baltimore, she began to make arrangements for their staying all night at her house, understanding that they would take the stage next morn- ing as it passed the gate. When evening came, great' was the trouble of getting the Bloxham chil- dren to bed. Some cried because they were sleepy, and some because they were not; Horne Tooke made no difficulty about it, one way or the other, but steadily kept his seat, and put in his word -as usual; it being always the settled purpose of his soul to sit up as'long as any of the grown peo- ple. And this purpose he regularly effected; his parents being afraid to oppose him in it. Consequently, he was pale, thin, sharp-faced, and old- looking; as is always the case with children who are allowed to stay up late. At last all the juveniles, except Horne Tooke, were deposited in the sleeping-places, with some trouble and inconvenience prepared for so many; Mrs. Bloxham herself first reconnoitering every bed to ascertain if there was a blanket upon it (warm as the weather was) to keep out the cold; and shutting -down all the-sashes to keep out the air; and closing and bolt- ing all the window shutters to keep out thieves; and seeing that there was a small lamp placed in every hearth (not, however, to keep out ghosts); and lamenting dolefully that these lamps were not rush-lights; and de- claring that she did not believe such a thing as a rush-light was to be had in America, all the people " being wedded to oil." On retiring for the night, Mrs. Mayfield (an exemplary wife and an ever-to-be-imitated hostess) forbore to make any comments on the guests; justly supposing that her husband was disappointed in his opinion of them; and that he would rather not hear of the mistake he had made in inviting such people to his house. This was the truth, for Mr. Mayfieldnow wondered at his late blindness; his eyes, in the course of the day, having been fully opened to the fact that his " good Englishman'" was in reality a very bad specimen of British mind and manners; being a half-bred, half-taught, lying, impudent,and con- ceited fool: and in no respect anything like a gentleman. Also, that no dependence was to be" placed on what he said of English politics, or of English great men, or of anything else. Also, that his wife and children were rude, vulgar, and every way annoying. "Well, dear Patty"-said Mayfield. guessing the thoughts of his con. siderate spouse--"I know you are thinking of these people exactly as I do.   I am very sorry that I was so injudicious as to bring them upon you. But after all, it is no great hardship to endure them for twenty-four hours. To-morrow morning they will certainly depart. And it must be confessed there is really some amusement in their absurdities." "True, my dear"-replied Mrs. Mayfield-"  and during the short time they are yet to remain, let us remember that they are still our guests. So we will talk no more about them." Morning came, and Mrs. Mayfield was stirring with the lark to see an   "           THE BLOXHAMS, excellent breakfast prepared for her guests,' that they might not be too. much hurried when the time arrived at which the Baltimore stage was ex- pected to pass. The children were all running about at an early hour, with the exception of Home Tooke, who being a late sitter-up was also a late riser. Breakfast was all ready to be sent in' but the shutters of Mr. and Mrs. Bloxham's room (a front one) remained fast closed. The'cook sent out at intervals, to the grass-plat in the front garden, a little negro to look up at these windows and report the state of the shutters. Still they continued closed. The squire and his wife nov held a consultation as to the pro- priety of having Mr. and Mrs. Bloxham called up, lest they should miss their breakfast or miss the stage. Mr. Mayfield argued on the excellent principle that it was equally right to" welcome the coming" and " speed the parting guest." "Yes, yes"-said Tommy Tring, who had admitted himself to the conference-" that last part, especially, when the guests is English. Always make a silver bridge for a flying enemy." '  The look-out, of rather the look-up on the grass-plat, was soon reinforced by all the other little negroes gathering to his assistance. Mrs. Mayfield,  however reluctant to have her visitors in the least incommoded, became at last convincef that it was better to disturb their rest than to subject them to the risk of missing the stage; so she consented that Pompey should stand at the foot of the stairs with the hand-bell, and ring it softly.. Pom- pey gave a slight ding-dong.  "Simp, do the shutters move?"-said Mr. Mayfield to the chief of the reconnoitering party. "No, masser-not the least morsel"-replied Simp;-" him's as fast as ever." "Go up to the landing-place, Pompey, and ring a very little louder"- said Mrs. Mayfield. Pompey obeyed, and tingled away, rather exceeding his instructions as to the loudness. What's the state of the shutters now?"-inquired Mr. Mavfield.  "Still in statter ko"-answered Tommy Tring, who had just come from the look-ups on the grass-plat. "None's so deaf as them what won't hear." "Pompey"-said the squire-"I believe you will have to go up to  their room and ring loudly at the door." "Oh, my dear"-exclaimed Mrs. Mayfield-" that will be really too bad!" ' I see no other way"-replied the squire. "They will be much an- noyed if our injudicious delicacy should cause them to lose their pas- sage." "Not a bit of it"-said Tommy Tring. "' That's just what they're  after. They know they can't be in better quarters; and their tarry here  is as cheap as dirt, too-for it costs them nothing. So, as sure as eggs is eggs, they'll make it a long one. Hark at that fellow Pomp; he's ringing like a house a fire-enough to waken the seven sleepers." Pompey having swung his bell fore and aft with all his might, the open- ing of the shutters was announced by a hurrah from the look-ups, who, now deeming themselves relieved from duty, all scampered away to carry the good news to the cook. Having thrown open the shutters, Bloxham put his head out at his   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.        67 chamber-door, exclaiming to Pompey-"You blackamoor villain, what do you mean by ringing that confounded bell so close to my very door?" "Please, sir"-said Pompey--"I'm a negorman, and not a blackamoor; and the bell a'nt confounded. I was only doing my best, sir, because we all thought that may be you'd wish to be whked up a little." "Who ever can wish to be waked up?"-cried Bloxham. "I thought when we got away from that infernal inn, we should be allowed to take our morning naps in peace. Get away, fellow, and learn that no English gentleman rises before eleven o'clock." "Please, sir"-said Pompey-" the stage for Baltimore town will have come along a good bit afore then." "Well, what's that to me?"-said Bloxham. ".Begone directly." Pompey went down stairs and reported to Mr. and Mrs. Mayfield that the stranger said the Baltimore stage was nothing to him. "Aha!"-exclaimed Tommy Tring--"just what I thought, though I was wise enough to keep my own counsel. I can see how the cat jumps. The British always know that possession's nine pints of the law; so now that these here have got into the house, you'll find it pretty hard work to get them out of it. Pity you had not the wit to see into the man before you axed him. You know, squire, I always advise you )ver to buy a pig in a poke. What's book-learning good for if it don't make us 'cute? However, as you brew so you must bake; and I can't waste another minute away from my work, for it's high time Pliny's trowsers was cut out." Bloxham came down to breakfast, rubbing his eyes and yawning, and declaring early rising to be a monstrous bore. He was arrayed in a faded robe' de chambre, of hard, stiff, green worsted damask. On his head sat a black cap, of dusty cotton velvet, with a yellowish tassel dangling over one eye: his feet, covered with thick, gray worsted hose, being thrust into the toes of a pair of ancient red slippers. Mrs. Bloxham hung on his arm in a quilted double-wrapper of highly-glazed dark calico, her hair twisted into innumerable curl-papers, and surmounted with a tamboured musliq coiffure that strongly resembled a night-cap. The children (who had been eating all the morning, and had greatly troubled the cook by sur- rounding her fireplace and teazing her for bits of everything), now rushed tumultuously into breakfast; and when it was nearly over, Horne Tooke made his appearance, " unwash'd, unkempt," and affording a striking con- trast to the shining morning face of Morris Mayfield. While they were at breakfast, the Baltimore stage passed-the Bloxhams taking care to look as if they did not hear; yet both husband and wife talking very loud and fast to drown the sound of the wheels. Breakfast 6ver, Mrs. Bloxham and her maid proceeded'to unpack the trunks, &c., spreading their contents out of the windows and over the railings of the balcony and porch, to get a good hairing, as Molly said. Squire Mayfield having resumed his usual occupations, Bloxham read the newspapers, fell into divers dozes, wandered up stairs and down, and talked to any one he chanced to meet. Home Tooke performed as usual; and the small children scampered unceasingly, and yelled unmeaningly-such being their only ideas of play. The elder children did nothing particular; exclusive of sitting, about, roving about, staring about, and listening about. It is well to mention that the Bloxhams dressed for dinner. In the afternoon they desired to take a ride, so the coachee was brought to the gate, the Bloxhams all stowed into it, and Mr. Mayfield drove it   68            THE BLOXHAMS, himself-Morris having dropped some hints of an inclination- to upset them the next time he acted as driver. During this ride, Mr. and Mrs. Bloxham came mutually to a conclusion that they were much disappointed in American scenery, and felt sorely the want of castles and abbeys. "Don't you miss another thing?"-said Horne Tooke--"the want of gibbets with men hanging in chains, like that highwayman on Hounslow Heath, and the smuggler on Sheppy Island?" To be brief, a week wore on, and the Bloxhams showed no symptoms of concluding their visit. The Baltimore stage passed by in vain--they took no-note of it. They seemed to consider themselves thoroughly domes- ticated in the house of Squire Mayfield, where they took every sort of liberty, put the whole family in requisition to attend to their accommodation and sup- ply their numerous wants, and unscrupulously found fault with everything that did not exactly comport with their own national prejud ices, or rather their own vulgar ideas. Squire Mayfield laughingly told his wife he thought him- self amply repaid for the inconvenience of having the Bloxhams at his house by the amusement their absurdities afforded. Mrs. Mayfield still contended that in the character of guests they were entitled to all possible civility, and that, on no consideration whatever, should the smallest hint be dropped of their havingprotracted their visit to an unwelcome length. Of all the Mayfield family, Morris found it most difficult to restrain himself; and he kept aloof from Horne Tooke to avoid the incessant temptation of knock- ing him down. Tommy Tring meandered about, and murmured and pro- phesied and looked significantly; and whenever they were out of hearing, he lost no opportunity of " speaking his mind" about the Bloxhams, whom he called "the beggars on horseback," always reproaching the squire with having set them there. "Depend upon it"-said he-" they were consi- derable of beggars in their own country, and very well used to living on other people. rhat's the reason it comes so handy to them now." "I don't believe it"-said Morris. "In their own country, as far as I can understand, there are very few people who allow themselves to be lived upon. No, no; 'tis far more likely they are trying their first experiment upon us. And they must themselves be astonished at its success.', "Now, as to the victuals they eat"-said Tommy Tring-" and the bed-clothes and towels, and the washing and lodging, and candles and oil, and 'tendance and all them things, to be sure nobody begrudges them, for none of us is a bit mean, and everybody knows Squire Mayfield is a full- handed man, and so is his wife too. But the worst of the business is, these Bloxhams (besides being British and our natural enemies) are so impudent and so aggravating, and so unthankful and such shameless fools, that all our goodness is throwed away upon them. Then they're so bitter ugly, withal, and the boys' coats are. cut so skimping, and the man's hangs on him like a sack, If we must waste our money on foreigners, let's at least have something eyeable for it." "Hush, Tommy, husl"--said Mrs. Mayfield. "How can you talk so? These unfortunate people did not make themselves." " No more they didn't"--replied Tommy-" but they've spiled them- selves-that is, spiled their looks by their unagreeable ways. Handsome is that handsome does;-that's the reason we Americans are mostly so good-looking; especially General Washington, when he came galloping up at the battle of Brandywine, where I fought myself. Such sights as Washington on hoss-back is enough to cure all the sore eyes in the world. But I must make haste and stitch the collar on old Sambo's jacket."   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.        69 The Bloxhams seemed every day to consider themselves more and more at home; or rather to regard Mr. Mayfield's house as an inn, where they might call for what they pleased; order the servants about as if they were their own; demand the use of the carriage, and be as exigeant, as selfish, and as troublesome as they chose--the only difference being that they were living here free of cost. They complained constantly of the ungen- teel earliness of American hours, and kept the table always waiting; till, finally, the Mayfields found it more convenient, and certainly more agreei able, to breakfast without them, and to have the table set a second time for the Bloxhams-Mrs. Mayfield still doing them the honor to preside. The maid Molly fell in love with an Irishman that worked on the next farm, and most of her time was spent at a fence which divided the two domains, so that some one of Mrs. Mayfield's black girls was kept in constant re- quisition to attend the baby. Neither did Mrs. Bloxham make any scruple of calling for Fanny Mayfield, and sending her up and down stairs upon frivolous errands. This last liberty, however, Mrs. Mayfield enjoined Fanny not to communicate to her father, lest his indignation should produce an outhreak. Two or three days after they came, Bloxham declared he must take up his pen and write a multitude of promised letters to England. Being sup- plied liberally with writing materials by Mr. Mayfield, he took his seat at a table in the large parlor, having first thrown all the windows wide open, though complaining bitterly of the glare and heat of the American sun. Here he pursued his writing, and spent his mornings. Except the incon- venience of his monopolizing the parlor, the Mayfields were rather glad when he took to writing; as it somewhat relieved them from the trouble of listening to his conversation, of which they had by this time become Very tired. The Bloxhams   talked much of a fellow-passenger whom they called the countess, and whom they had left at the Spread Eagle, where she had been indisposed and invisible ever since her arrival.  That's all a hum"--said Horne Tooke-" she only stayed up stairs because she was not fit to be seen, having nothing to wear but her ship-clothes." Mrs. Bloxham explained that when the countess came from England, she left her baggage to follow in the next ship-an arrangement which was somewhat incomprehensible to the Mayfields. But Mr. Bloxhamrn assured them that itwas not at all unusual with English persons. Fanny May- field thought in her own mind it would have been well if the Bloxhams themselves had adopted that plan, as half the bureaus, presses, and closets upstairs, were now filled with the trumpery they had brought with them - not-to mention herself being frequently called upon to assist in repairing and altering the things, and a servant continually going up and down stairs with a   heated iron, to " smooth out this" and  a rub over that"-Molly being always at the fence. One day Mrs. Bloxham appeared with a letter in her hand, which she informed Mrs. Mayfield she had just received from her dear friend the countess.   "It brings delightful news"-said she. " The ship with the countess's luggage has come. Her health is still delicate, but she tells me she will now accept the iilvitation I sent her the day after we came, and will join us here--so we may expect her to-morrow morning. You will then have a countess under your roof." Mrs. Mayfield looked surprised, and Mr. Mayfield diverted--for the cool assurance of his guests had become a source of amusement to him,   70            THE BLOXHAMS, though it was not altogether sport to the females of his family, on whom the trouble of it chiefly devolved, notwithstanding that they bore it with amazing patience. However, this last piece of news they hailed as rather a good omen--concluding at once that the Bloxhams had not proceeded to Baltimore because they were waiting for their friend to join them. The Mayfields now began to see land, and indulged the hope of being soon re- lieved from their troublesome visitors. On the following day, the Baltimore stage stopped and put out a female at Squire Mayfield's gate : also a big trunk and a little trunk, a big bandbox and a little bandbox, and divers bags both big and little. This arrival brought out all the family to the porch. Bloxham hastened forward, met the stranger at the gate, called two or three servants to attend to the " lug- gage," and after a few minutes' private confabulation, he gave the lady his arm and conducted her to the house, where he introduced her as the Countess Wangledon. The Countess Wangledon was a woman of no particular age, and no particular height, figure, face, or complexion. She wore a riding-dress of an indescribable color, and a beaver hat that might have passed for either black, brown or gray-but it exactly matched her hair. Her head, arms, and body were perpetually waving and bowing about, in a style which some persons mistake for grace; and her voice was affectedly soft and languishing, or rather whining. Having first kissed a cheek of all the female Bloxhams (carefully avoiding the boys), she hastened to take a hand of each of the Mayfields, squeezing their fingers hard and affectionately. Then tuining to Mrs. Bloxham, who stood at 'her back, she whispered, with a significant glance-"Is that right? Have I got through it well, in true American fashion?" On taking her seat, the countess raised an eye-glass, which hung round her neck, and applying it to her eye, took a survey of the apartment; then addressing Mrs. Mayfield, she made up a nimminy-primminy mouth, and said, in her softest tone--4"A sweet room this--charming simplicity in the furniture-so very characteristic! Really, in England one gets so tired of Turkey carpets and velvet curtains, and gilt chairs, and girandoles and chandeliers, and all that sort of thing, that the absence of them is very refreshing. Indeed, I have some time since adopted the quiet style upon all occasions. It is quite new. Everything striking and prononcee is going out among persons of rank, particularly when residing on the conti- nent. I found the chaste, subdued style very prevalent at Passy; and also at Choisy and Noisy. A little more show, perhaps, at Caen; but not quite so nmuch at Rouen. And now, .my dear Mrs. Hayfield"--con- tinued the countess, with some additional twisting of her shoulders, and swaying of her body--'-" may I beg your kind permission to lay aside my beaver? It is rather heavy to wear a riding-hat this melting day. Forgive me, I do not mean to disparage your climate-indeed I do not-I am gene- rally very guarded-at least I try to be so; but these slips of the tongue will sometimes occur. Oblige me, dearest Mrs. Hayfield, by endeavoring to remember that I never was in America before. If it is deemed in your excellent country-a violation of etiquette for a lady to take off her hat in the parlor, only tell me so, and I will humbly bow to the reproof." "Fal de ral tit"-said Hoerne Tooke. "Perhaps you will like to take off your riding-habit also"-said Mrs. Mayfield--" and change it for a cooler dress?" "Of course"--replied the countess--' I have no intention of dining in   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.        71 it. Yet, still I would, if yo thought it proper. Only put me in the right way and I will try to follow it-indleed I will. Myearnest desire is to givenot the slightest offence during my sojourn in your most commendable country. If I fail in this desire, I implore you to impute it to ignorance, and not to design. Teach me, dearest Mrs. Hayfield, teach me wat I am to say and do, and I will try to be an apt scholar--indeed I will." Mrs. Mayfield then hastily withdrew to order the countess s baggage to be carried up stairs-wondering how long they were to be blest with the society of this guest of her guests. A room having been prepared for her wit}} great inconvenience to the family, the Countess Wangledon was conducted to it by a colored girl named Rose.  Send the waiting-maid to me"--said the lady. "Maum"- -replied the girl--"l'm waiting-maid myself, and jist any- thing. I do all the jobs I'm set at." "(Poor creature!"--ejaculated the countess. * She then desired Rose to unlace her boots, and while the girl was kneeling to perform the office, the countess looked at her compassionately, and said, in a melancholy tone- "Unhappy daughter of Africa!" "Please, maum, my mother's name's Phebe"-said the girl. Miserable, ill-fated wretch! What a heart-breaking life must be yours!" Please, maum, it don't seem to me that I'm a wretch, or miserable any way. Master's people's all well used, and we gets plenty of wieluals and clothes, and plenty of physic when we're sick, and is allowed balls. I'm a desperate dancer myself-" "Hush!"-interrupted the countess, angrily. "I won't listen to such falsehoods. Don't dare to tell me that you are well treated or happy. What has been done/to refine your mind or elevate your ideas?" "Nan?"--sand the girl, using an exclamation that corresponds with the "N'entend pas" of the French populace.  "Nan!" repeated the countess. "There now-there   Is not that one word sufficient evidence of a neglected education? That a human being should be allowed to say ' nan !'" "Please, maum, do you want any more of me?"--inquired Rose. "Yes, certainly.  Have I made my toilet yet?" "Mistress perwides toilets'"-said the girl;-." she never expects no ladies to make their own. There's one, maum, between the winders." "Lamentable ignorance!"--exclaimed the countess. " Butso you have been brought up. Your mind must be a barren waste." "Yes,   miaum"-said Rose---"likely it is; but I'm counted a pretty smart gal, any how." The countess approached the mirror, and began twitching her locks, while she said-,' One's hair gets so dry in this burning climate. I'll thank you for some Macassar oil." "Please, maum, I don't know what that is"-replied Rose.  "' But, any how, we an't got none." ' Dreadful grammar!"-lexclaimed the countess, clapping a hand on each ear. "It pains me to hear it. Alas! alas! that the 'education of any human beings should be so neglected!" "Please, maum"-said  Rose--,' is it my talk you don't like ? I am very sorry ;--but I've heard a great many white sarvants that didn't talk no better. There's Mrs. Bloxham's Molly, that says happles and heggs   72            THE BLOXHAMS, and hashes, and wristesses and fistesses and beastesses; so that it's right hard to make her out." "Hush"-said the countess--" how you are running on! And"- looking again in the glass-" is my hair to be dry this way for ever?" "Maum"-replied Rose-" if you want anything to grease your hair, I can fetch you a roll of pomeatum." "Don't name it. Pomatum is quite out--absolutely passde. I dare say there is not a bottle of Macassar oil to be had in all the whole country." "Can't say, maum-but I guess a'most there an't, for I never heard of none about in these here parts." "And yet the people seem to have heads of hair"-observed the coun- tess. She then proceeded to take off her gloves and look at her hands, ex- claiming-"I protest I see five or six freckles on each hand. Your burn- ing sun would freckle through an iron gauntlet. I must get these off at once. Bring me some almond paste." "I don't know what that is, neither"--said the girl-" but I'm sartain we han't got none of it. I can fetch you some buttermilk; that's good to rub out freckles. People in these parts uses it." "Disgusting creatures!"-cried the countess. "However, don't tell any- body I said so." This injunction determined the girl to tell everybody. She began to feel very indignant at having to wait on the new English visitor-the Bloxhams being, of course, very unpopular with the servants. "Help me on with my gown"--said the counress--"and tell me if you and your fellow-servants do not grieve incessantly at the idea of being wretched blackamoors." "Why, I don't know, maum. We don't call ourselves such ugly names. White folks is whiter, to be sure; but we mostly reckon our own color the prettiest. Some of us is lovely. You never seed a bigger beauty than Quomany Quash in his Sunday clothes." "I cannotendure another word from you"-said the countess-" so now I am drest, you may take your departure." In the mean time, as they sat in the porch waiting for the summons to dinner, Bloxham descanted upon the extreme gentility of the new guest, and her having been some years on the continent. "Where is this lady's husband?"--inquired Mr. Mayfield---" or is she a widow?" "She never had a husband"-replied Bloxham. "She holds the title in her own right. She was created a countess by the widow of the Pre- tender, whom she knew at Rome, and whom she justly considers her rightful queen." "And what was she before she was a countess?"-said Horne Tooke. "Aha, she never tells that!" The Countess Wangledon now made her appearance, bowing and wav- ing, and twisting and twining, in what she called a quiet dinner-costume. It was an unglossy silk gown, of a dull or rather a dingy olive, a- gauze scarf of a dusky-brownish dye, and a faint drab-colored turban. There was neither black nor white about her; neither light nor shadow; so that she looked like a bad picture done entirely in a cold middle-tint. She sat down by Mrs. Mayfield, and resuming her plaintive, deprecating tone, again ex- pressed gratuitously her constant desire to avoid giving offence, and her perpetual dread of doing something contrary to American customs. By-   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.          73 the-by, she had a peculiar way of saying "Thank you," with a tone, you are politely prepar ing to give me the preedece.        t waive that rank in proceeding to your hospitable table. I am well aware that all these aristoratic observances must grate harshy on republican feel- ings;  and I would not, for the best diamond in my coronet, be accessory to anything that might cause the slightest unpleasant sensation. ndeed, that was one of my motives for leaving all my jewels in  Europe, with other appendages of my station." "Bow, wow, wow"--interrupted  Horne Tooke. "I shrink"-pursued the countYess- believe me, I al  ways shrink from the danger of exciting envy; and, while im your most praiseworthy republic, I  am perfectly willing to take any position (however i ferior), and to merge the countess in the woman. Beiev    e me, w i do so heerfully- ideed I will. Affability has lways been considered ny forte-or rather one of my fortes. Try, then, to forge  t my rank  and do  ot even give I wh  take you at your w ord  "-relied Mr. Mafield, with a smile. "( We unpractised Americans often make sad havoc with foreign titles, and very seldom manage to designate them properly. So do not be surprised if I should call you Mrs. W angledon." "Good--capital-excellent  !"-shouted Horne Tooke. "'ll do the same." T  he coun  tess shuddered, s hrugged her shoulders, compressed her mouth tightly, and then threw up her eyes prayerfully. Mrs. Mayfield looked frightened, and cast an i mploring glane to wards her husband, wa h seemed rather too much diverted.     nce towards her husband, who B  y this time th ey were seated at table-the countess next to her host.- ess, and o pposite M  r. Bloxham. After finishing a plate of excellent oyster-soup , she said, beseechingy, to Mrs  . May field--at  My dearest madam, forgive me if I err, but as in England we are not habituated to being helped  twice to soup, will you , in y ou r g oodness, excuse me tod from  a second su pply. Perlaps I am r godness i  exre mein tis mo-day ndulgence, particularly as I a ware thantreat thei rhrougdount urry com mendable country, it is the custom aways to eat to or more p atefuls o f swill w  it h cheeou thessd aossi ly the fac t may never reach England." b   eMrs . Ma yfield was now at a loss to guess whether thood e e metally wa  nte  d more soup or not; buts he said-"Certainly, madam  you will be at full     liberty here, and  I hope everywhere else throuh eric a to tav e  asco m   uch or as little as you please of vlateve r may be on th e table." soupT;whic ydoubtlessies r th  e     countess, wit h a bow of gratitude. it  ;A . s since you I aren so kid  as to allow, me the refusal I will n ot be outdone in civility; but, for the first time in my life , venture upon a second slate of s8up. I trust I shall be able to get through it." "N   o d oubt of that"-said Ho rne Tooke--, for it's first rate. " 6   74            THE BLOXHAMS,                The countess now bethought herself of something else. My dear Mrs. ayfield"-said she, wain about exessively-  if it was not for the fear of being considered troublesome-(and I would not be troublesome for all the wealth of England-ah, forgive me-and America too-- would not be troublesome for all the wealth of America and England.") "Now she's fixed it"-said Horne Tooke. "In short, I've no wish to be troublesome"--pursued the countess- "and you know I would not for the world offend. But one cannot, all at once, relinquish the custom of one's whole life, particularly when we are persons of a certain rank."  "To the point"-cried Horne Tooke. "May I be permitted, dearest Mrs. Mayfield"--continued the countess "in consideration, you know, of my English habits (no doubt they are all very reprehensible), but can I have your permission just to refrain from eating with my knife? I have been trying to do so (indeed I have), but yet the practice is so new to me--so very new--that (if the truth must be explained)I feel in continual terror of cutting my mouth." "Haw! haw! haw!"--laughed Horne To   oke. aWe   all use our forks in eating-observed Mrs. Mayfield. th "True-but still not exactly as I mean. You cut your meat with your knife, and convey it to your mouth with your fork; keeping the knife in your right hand and the fork in your left." Certainly"-said the unsophisticated Mrs. Mayfield. "Forgive me"-resumed the countess--"I would rather die than offend. And I have a hoping faith that, in time, I shall be able to eat in the most  approved American style. I   will try to learn, indeed I will." "i We shall be glad to see you eat in the style to which you have been accustomed"-said Mrs. Mayfield. "Thank you"--replied the countess-"you' are really all goodness. Now, then, allow me to explain. With all due humility, my desire is to be permitted to dispense with my knife, after using it to cut my food into little delicate morsels; which must of course be done where there are no French dishes. Then transferring the fork to my right hand (in this manner), I take a piece of bread in my left (just rn pthis way), and (as- sisted by the bread), I convey this ice potion of prepared chicken tothe hollow or cavity of the prongs, and from thence to the interior of my , You see how she shovels it up"-said Horne Tooke. "Now all of yol look and learn."ve "I perceive"-resumed the countess-$'that my Bloxham friends have learnt already a large portion of. delightful Americanismt" In those early times, the European practice of eating with the fork in the right hand, and guiding the food to it by means of a piece of bread, had not yet reached those parts of America where foreign cookery was un- known; the excellence and abundance of our matelprecluding all ne- essity of disguising it, or converting it into mysterious messes Accord- ingly, the Mayfields regarded this process with some curiosity and a little amusement.  he Bloxhams (not being persons of rank) had never at- tempted it; the practice, even in Englandenot having yet ee or- the class there stigmatized as the peole." The Bloxhams were ce- "  "May I ask for a little anchovy, either in essence or in fish!"--said the countess. "Your cook (no doubt a capable and exemplary domestic)   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.   '5 has forgotten to put any in the filling of this fowl. It must have been forgetfulness. She of course is familiar with the use of that unrivalled condiment, so indispensable to all genteel dishes." "I am sorry"-said Mrs. Mayfield--" that we have really nothing of the anchovy sort in the house." "Ah!"-exclaimed the countess-" that must be the reason I could not perceive any anchovy flavor in your otherwise excellent soup. In Eng- land, we add an anchovy to nearly half the dishes that are prepared for table, as you may see by consulting our cookery books."     "At our house"-said Horne Tooke--" we added a sprat." "Horne Tooke!"-frowned his father. "What's the child talking about?"-said his mother. "You know we did"-persisted Horne Tooke. "Did not you pickle sprats on purpose, and keep them in a jar?" "I see"--said the countess--" my young friend, Master Bloxham, has already learnt the American art of mystifying. But what have I said? Ah, my unfortunate inadvertency! Forgive me, dear Mrs. Mayfield. Mr. Mayfield, forgive me also. I meant no reflection on your most hon- orable country--indeed I did not. Pray-pray, forgive me." "Don't"-said Horne Tooke- ' don't forgive her at all. She knows what she's about all the time. She's a deep one, that she is. Now, if mystifying means fibbing (as I suppose it does), I told twice as many fibs in England, and so did all of us." Mr. Mayfield compassionately changed the subject, by saying some- thing that gave a turn to the conversation. When the dessert was placed on the table, the countess said, at the commencement-"My dear Mrs. Mayfield, will you pardon me if I decline taking any pastry? My constitution is so very delicate, I am obliged to deny myself many delicious things. But if it is customary in America always to eat pie, I will try to do so-indeed I will; I wish to conform-indeed I do. Believe me, I have an absolute terror of being considered odd-indeed I have. If you wish it, I will begin to-day and partake of pie and pudding both-all and everything. In Europe, to be sure, my repasts were always little and elegant-fairy-like banquets, in truth, and tasted with a sylph-like appetite. But here, I find, where every- thing is on so large a scale, it must be my business to acquiesce in all. And, indeed, your climate seems to require more to support its constant wear and tear. Forgive me again. No doubt I shall in time bring my- self to regard the climate of America as delightful. I wish to do so." Mrs. Mayfield began to think that there could be no wear and tear equal to that of listening to the prate of the Countess Wangledon, delivered as it was in a whining drawl, and accompanied by perpetual motion of face ...? figure.  Finally, the countess managed to taste of everything on the table: when she had gone through all, she turned to Pompey, and said-.Pray, sir, can you oblige me with a finger-glass-either blue or purple?--tlcolor is of no importance."  Pompey looked at his mistress, who was much disconcerted to iollect that they had none. In fact, the Mayfields had only heard o-ffinger- glasses. The squire, however, called Pompey to him, and, after a few words of consultation, Pompey went out, and presently returned with a blue glass sugar-bowl filled with water, which he sat before the countess., To the great disgust of the uninitiated part of the company, she took two   76            THE BLOXHAMS, or three mouthfuls of the water, rinsed her mouth very audibly, and then spirted the liquid back again into the bowl, finishing by dipping in her fingers and wiping them with her napkin. Luckily, the Bloxhams were not up to finger-glasses. Day after day passed on. The countess staid, and the Bloxhams staid-all of them disagreeable and annoying in their various ways. The friends and neighbors of the Mayfield family liked these intruding stran- gers so little, that only in a very few instances did they tender to them the civilities of an invitation to tea. The cool assurance with which, during five weeks, the whole party persisted in billeting themselves on 'the May- fields, became every day more irksome. All the Mayfields agreed that their shameless and troublesome guests deserved no quarter, and that it would be perfectly justifiable to send them away. But Mrs. Mayfield could not resolve to consent to their dismissal, still hoping that, in time, they would go off of themselves. As may be supposed, the Britishers (as they were called by the servants) became an almost perpetual theme of discussion in the kitchen, where their proceedings at table were often caricatured; each Ethiopian taking a part and mimicking them all round. In these performances, Pompey enact- ed Bloxham; Binkey, the cook, was Mrs. Bloxham; Rose took the count- ess; and a smart boy, named Varlo, assumed, with much unction, the character of Horne Tooke. The maid Molly having, by accident, wit- nessed one of these exhibitions, and declared it " fun alive," and " as good as a play," only " not half bad enough," was from that time considered "no stranger." So all manner of jokes at the expense of her employers were freely carried on before her face, Molly as freely joining in them, to the best of her ability, which was not much. Nevertheless, when she re- turned up stairs, she did not fail, confidentially, to communicate all these things to her mistress, who was, of course, much incensed. But Bloxham had little difficulty in convincing his wife that their best policy was to pass over in silence these disrespectful doings of the kitchen-people, and on no consideration to act upon them in any way whatever. One fine summer-like afternoon, when the English chanced to be all out, some riding in the coachee driven by Pompey, and some strolling about the farthest apple-orchard, the chief members of the Mayfield family, as they sat in the porch, were talking on the subject that was naturally upper- most in their minds; while Tommy Tring, from his seat on the door-step, joined, as usual, in the conversation. "Well"-said he--" 'tis a long lane that has no turning-but this lane seems likely to go straight on forever. I thought when that Wanglom woman joined them, there was some hopes, because when things come to i::-; Sworst they mt8at mend--(and that's the usual way,)--but these things W  to stay at the worst always. Now, squire, it's no secret that the we neighborhood cries shame upon you for keeping these people in yourffouse, and letting them impose on you in this fashion. Nobody can't nnderstand why you bear with them, 'specially as you ain't old enougihtp be in your dotage, nor little Patty neither. If you was in your secornhildhood, it might be some excuse. I should not wonder if it hurts6ur election, when you stand for Congress next year. Beside the fooli shess of the thing, something may be made out of your harboring the ememy, and giving them free quarters so long." "I confess"--said the squire--" it would be very desirable to get rid of these people."   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS. "If we could only devise some delicate way of doing it"-observed his wife. "Delicate way!"- exclaimed Tommy. "We need not have a golden pen to write upon dirt. I only wish it was left to me." "Or me"-said Morris Mayfield. "I'd soon start them"--pursued Tommy. "So would!"--said Morris--" and without the least ceremony." "No--no"-resumed Tommy Tring---"I could do it best. It would be nuts to me. I'd dispose of them all in short order." "I should like to help you"--said Morris. "No--no.   Too many cooks spile the broth. Besides, your young blood is quite too fiery. When I despise people very bad (such as are a step below anger), I can keep myself as cool as a cowcumber. Folks that are naught is never in danger from me." MaIt would be well if every one had that feeling, Tommy'"-said Mrs. Mayfield.              . "To   think"- proceeded Tommy Tring-' only to think, before they come, of my being cautioned, and put on my best behavior (such beha- vior as never was expected of me before), and told not to venture a word about the battle of Brandywine, where I fout for Congress under Washing- ton and La Fayette! To think that one should be required to keep in, and watch one's natural words for such trash as they! Set them up, indeed, the wagabone beggars! The only satisfaction I ever get is when I hear that sharp-faced brat of their own, that Horne Tooke, as they call him, (and I am sure that's no Christian name), when I hear him giving them the digs all the time, and -sassing them as they desarve." "  For shame--for shame, Tommy Tring!"-exclaimed Mrs. Mayfield. "How ca  rt you talk so?" "Well"-answered   Tommy--"I  don't say it's right in him to d6 it. I'm no upholder of impudent boys. For instance, it would not-be at all right for Morris Mayfield here to be always sassing the squire and little Patty; and there's no danger of his doing so, ever. But as to these fo- reigners, who cares? It's all among themselves. Why did they bring up the fellow in such a foolish way, sparing the rod and spiling the child, so that now they're every one afeared of him. No-no; people that's fathers and mothers must brew as they bake."  - "wish, indeed, I  could devise any feasible means of expediting their removal"--said Mr. Mayfield. "There's no need of studying and pondering about it"--answered Tommy.     "Why not speak out plain, and tell them, right up and down, slam bang, that they've staid here quite long enough, and are not at all agreeable; and it's high time for-them to pull up stakes and clear out." No-no"-exclaimed Mrs. Mayfield--" that will never do.   I cannot possibly consent to having visitors. ordered out of my house." "What! not when they bolt in and stay forever?"-replied Tommy '-" and have brass enough to invite their friends besides, as if they were settled in a  home of their own? That Wanglom woman is the greatest dose I ever saw in my life. She's more sickening than all the rest put together, and that's sayin g a great deal." i"It is true"-said Mr. Mayfield, turning to his wife-" that I was at first somewhat amused with her absurdities; but the unvarying sameness of her folly soon made it very irksome." "To be sure"--said Tommy Tring---"that's always the case with   78            THE BLOXHAMS, foolishness that has no sense in it. Well, squire, what say you? Shall I take this consarn upon myself? Just trust the whole business to me, and let nobody else put in no oars, and I'll engage to rid the house of these varmint in less than no time. I've thought of a way. All I want is a clear field, and no favor. But keep aloof, all of you, and don't ax no questions about the why and the wherefore; and you'll thank me for it the longest day you have to live." "Well, my dear Patty"-said Mr. Mayfield, smiling--" what do you say? Shall we entrust this enterprise to Tommy Tring, and give him carte blanche?" "What's that?"--said Tommy; then, after a pause of consideration, "No, I don't think either of the carts will be wanted; but if there is, the blue one is biggest. Any how, if I contract to get them off, you may be sure I'll make them go." "I'm afraid, Tommy"-said Mrs. Mayfield--" if this is confided to you, you will say something shocking, or do something dreadful." "None of my sayings ever was a bit shocking"-replied Tommy- "and I never did a dreadful thing in my life, except when killing and wound- ing the British in open battle. And there was nothing dreadful in that, for it was right and proper, and the only way to get our liberty." "I hope you are not going to talk so to these people?"-said Mrs. May- field. "Don't they desarve it?"--answered Tommy. "They ought to be made to hear of every fight from Bunker Hill to Yorktown. But that will never get them off. They're not the sort to be affronted out of the house by nothing of that kind; they're battle-proof. They know too well on which side their bread's buttered. But just say the word, and let me fol- low out my plan, without axing me no questions, and I'll engage to start them easy." "Really, dear Patty"-said the squire-"I am much inclined to consent to this scheme of Tommy Tring's, whatever it may be. If not successful, we can, after all, try some other way as a last resort." "It won't fail, no how"--said Tommy--"if I'm only let alone in it. At least it can't fail with such as them. With better folks, may be it might, and I dare say it would. I promise you to use no force." "Dear mother"--said Fanny Mayfield--"do let Tommy Tring take his course with these people. It may at least afford us a little diversion, after all we have suffered." "Your share of the fun won't come on till it's all over"-said Tommy. "And then, if things goes right, what a laugh we'll have. But, remember, nobody's to ax no questions as to my, purposes. I won't consent to be pumped, because pumping will put me all wrong. If you do, I'll quit acting, and leave the enemy on your hands; and there'll be no way of getting rid of them but to set the house on fire and let them all run out." "If the house was burnt down"--said Morris--" they'd stay and live with us in the barn." "To be sure they would"--observed Tommy--" and move into the new house with you after it was built. But my way will put a stop to all such dangers. And it is a very mild one-not a hair of their heads need be hurt." To be brief, the business of expediting the departure of these unconscion- able guests was at last confided to Tommy Tring, who rubbed his hands   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.       79 in ecstasy at the thought of being allowed to prosecute his mysterious "Now"-said he--"I'm on pins and needles till I begin my operation. And here the enemy is just coming in sight. I see some of the young fry strolling home from the big apple-orchard, and the rest poking their heads out of the coachee as it turns the mill-dam corner. That object waving about on the back seat must be the Wanglom woman. So all of you go into the house, or somewhere, and leave them to me myself. And, mind now-honor bright-no peeping nor listening. If you do, youill put me Out.**              I       , Obedient to Tommy's command, the Mayfields left the porch, Morris and his father laughing, Fanny smiling, and Mrs. Mayfield looking appre- hensive. The younger children had not been present at this conference. The coachee now put out its load; and before Pompey drove the vehicle  back to the stable, Tommy Tring stepped up,and took an opportunity of whispering to him--." Pomp, don't be out of the way. After you've put up the coach, just come and hide yourself behind that thick grape-vine by the lower end of the porch, and you'll hear something worth while. Great things is going to happen." With unwonted courtesy, Tommy Tring performed a work of super- erogation in assisting the Bloxhams out of the coach. A basket of very fine apples was standing in the porch, and before going into the house, the riding party sat down to eat some. "Them's fine apples, an't they?"-said Tommy Tring. "They're New- town pippins." "Pretty fair"-replied Bloxham. "But they are nothing to our English golden runnets." "Take care what you say"--observed the countess. "You may talk of our English Apples"--said Horne Tooke--" but you know very well you never tasted any in England half so good as these. I'm beginning to like America, for I never had such good prog in y life as since I've been here in this very house." '    -   "It's always been counted one of the best houseis in these parts"-said Tommy-" and the squire an't at all out of the way in his charges. Has he given you any bill yet?" "Bill!"-exclaimed Bloxham.         .     .    $ "Charges!"--ejaculated his wife. "What do you mean?"   '   I, "Good heavens!"-cried the countess--" into what have I been 'be. trayed"?' "  Why, did not you all know this was a hotel?" said Tommy Tring- "such as your gal Molly calls a hinn?" "  What's the sign?'--said Horne Tooke-" and where is it?" "  Oh, the sign"-replied Tommy-." the sign! Why, the sign is General Washington; it was took down long ago. We all thought that (besides disgracing him) it was disagreeable to all our feelings to have him hanging on a high post like a gallows, and swinging about in the wind and rain, and with the sun broiling and the snow beating in his fine, noble countenance, with his regimentals on. And there was no manner of use in it; for the house was too well known to want a sign at the door. So it was took down, and cleaned clean and brightened up, and framed in gold, and put in the big room, and hung over the mantel-piece for a picter. That's it* you see every day; only you seem to take care never to look at it. But* X that's nateral, considering you're British. Yes, there it is, inside the house,   THE BLOXHAMS, over the big-room mantel. It's a very genteel way of having a sign, and a new fashion." "But where is the bar?"-asked Bloxham. "Oh, that's a sort of a secret, and a new fashion, too. Public bars is going quite out. But you know whatever you call for you can have. Besides, this is not a common tavern like the White Bear up the road; it's a large farm, with a hotel to it. ,We have many such about the country; and they're found to answer very well. It's like killing two birds with one stone-a thing we American people are very apt to do." "You astonish me!"-exclaimed Bloxham. "Have we been all this time staying on expenses at an inn?" "To be sure you have"-replied Tommy. "And hadn't none of you the wit to find it out of yourselves?" "We're all in the wrong box"-said Bloxham, ruefully. "A capital joke, though"-said Horne Tooke, laughing loudly. "Hush, you graceless imp!"-exclaimed his mother. "Is this a laugh- ing matter? Things are bad enough without your making them worse." "And shall we be charged with every item we have had?"-said Blox- ham. "Why, we shall be ruined." "To be sure you will"-said Tommy Tring-" every tittle is set down to you. Why, I thought you knew it all along, from the way you called for things, and ordered about, and found fault." "Here's a pretty kettle of fish!"-exclaimed Bloxham. "I never could tell"-observed Tommy--" why English folks call all sorts of bad things 'kettles of fish.'" "Mr. Bloxham and Mrs. Bloxham"-said the Countess Wangledon, in a sharp, strong voice, not the least whining, and forgetting, also, to wave and bow about-" this is all very strange. Remember, I came here ex- pressly by your invitation; so I regard myself as your guest entirely. I can prove it by your own letter. So I wash my hands of the whole business; and a pretty mess you've made of it." "After all we had heard of American hospitality"-said Bloxham, ruefully---"I thought we should have had a fine time here as long as we pleased to stay, without its costing us a farthing. And now, to pay for all this will strip us to the skin." "Many go for wool and come home shorn"-observed Tommy, "Confound the place!"-exclaimed Bloxham. "I wish I had never set foot upon it. Why, what a monstrous bill we must have run up here; so many of us, too. How could I suppose, when this infernal fox of a squire asked me to stop at his house, that he kept an inn, and meant it in the way of business? Confound his Yankee cunning!" "Any how"-said Tommy Tring-" you've behaved all the time as if you counted yourselves at an inn; so how could you suppose we did not know it?" "Mary"-said Bloxham to his wife-" you remember I told you, more than once, that perhaps we were going too far, and making ourselves too much at home under another man's roof." "To be sure"-said Home Tooke-" we never should have been al- lowed to go on this way in England in any but a public house. I thought, myself, these American people were great fools for bearing with us. How- ever, if they chose to do so, it was none of our business to stop them." "What a monstrous bore!"-said Bloxham. "How on earth shall we get out of the scrape?"   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.   81   "I think it quite likely you'll have your bill to-morrow"-said Tommy Tring.  "The plain truth is"-replied Bloxham-" that we are not in funds to pay it at all. Maybe the landlord will let us off.". "I guess not"-answered Tommy. "I don't know why he should, specially since you've all give so much trouble, and behaved bad all along. Landlords an't apt to let people off, even when they make themselves agreeable." "But if we tell him we were not the least aware of his keeping an inn?" "Well, then, he'll say it was yourbusiness to know what sort of a house you were in before you tarried so long." "Mr. Bloxham"-said the countess--"I desire vou again to remember that I came here by an invitation under your own hand. I have writing to show for it: which, if necessary, I can produce in a court of justice, as proof positive. Let this be a warning to you, in future, never to go to an inn that has not a sign outside." "It would be better"-observed Tommy. "Was there ever such a ridiculous country"--pursued the countess- "or one that was so hard to understand? I have been sick of itfrom the day I landed. I hate, detest, and despise the whole Yankee nation--a vile, low, contemptible pack of vulgarians!" "Them's your sentiments, are they?"-said Tommy. "Yes, they are: and I don't care now who knows them." "It must have been a pretty tight job all this time to try to keep them down"-said Tommy. "And yet we all saw through you as easy as a glass windor. However, we that lives in these parts an't Yankees no how, and we don't like to be called so. All isn't fish that swims in the sea." "Dear Mr. Tring"--said Mrs. Bloxham, who had been for some minutes in consultation with her husband-" you are a sensible man, and have a right understanding of things-can't you contrive some way to get us out of this miserable mess?" "This dreadful dilemma"- added her husband. "This fish-kettle, you mean"-said Tommy. "Well, I don't know- there's such a large biling of you." "Do, pray, good Mr. Tring"-pursued Bloxham. "I'm really quite' dumbfounded-quite at a non-plus." "Well"-replied Tommy-"I'm a soft-hearted fellow, and was always counted a good hand at helping a lame dog over a stile; but this is such an ugly job, I'm rather at a non-plush myself. Pity you've staid so long!" "Oh, a thousand pities"-said Mrs. Bloxham. "If we had only known that the house was an inn, and those Mayfield people a landlord and land- lady!" "I thought, more than once"-said the countess-" it was rather odd, even for such wasteful fools as the Americans, to keep so many visitors in the house so long, without giving them a hint that they had worn out their welcome. But after Icame, I supposed they considered themselves suf- ficiently repaid by the honor and novelty of having a lady of rank under their roof, in a country where countesses are rarities." "Now quit all that humbug"-said Home Tooke. "It's grown quite too flat; so let's have no more of it." "Yes-yes"-said Tommy Tring-" enough is as good as a feast. And this ain't no time to keepup countessing-we've other fish to fry. I'm a pondering and puzzeling how to get you out of this here fix."  82           THE BLOXHAMS, "Be quick, then"-said Bloxham. "You say you can't pay no how"-pursued Tommy. "I've a notion it will be a thundering bill." The Bloxham couple groaned in concert--"How we have been taken in!" "You took yourselves in"-continued Tommy-"How could you be such ninnies as to think you were living week after week at free quarters for nothing at all, with leave to ax any 'quaintances you chose?" "Aye"-said the countess, bitterly-" that was the most unpardonable sin of all. Could I have believed that they were not visitors themselves? Could I have supposed that I was not invited as a visitor also?" "The receiver's as bad as the thief"-remarked Tommy. "To think"-continued the countess, drawing herself up as erect as possible-" that they should have presumed to take the liberty of inveigling a lady of rank into so vile a predicament. But I am rightly served for ever having honored such persons with my notice-people that nobody knows-low-bred cockneys--" "I don't know what cockneys is"-interrupted Tommy-" but as to the standing of all of you in your own country, I guess it's six of one and half a dozen of t'other. So as high words break no bones, I advise you to stop all this squabbling, and turn your eyes to the main chance-that is, the chance of getting off without paying; for, if I make you out right, to pay is no ways convenient." "It is out of the question"-said Bloxham. "We are not prepared." "Pa"-said Home Tooke-" you know how we slipped off from London arid Bristol." "Practice makes perfect"-observed Tommy;-" so if you are used to the business you should be the cleverer at it, and get into no blunders. Well, I'll try and do you a good turn, though you are British-which last is the reason I haven't given you much of my company since you've been staying-boarding here, I mean." "Oh, Mr. Tring"-exclaimed Mrs. Bloxham-" we'll promise you any- thing if you'll only help us away." "Trusting"-said Horne Tooke-" that you will consider yourself well paid by enjoying the satisfaction of doing a good action." "I don't want no pay"-said Tommy-"I an't a bit mean; and my conscience wouldn't let me take nothing, for this piece of business above all. You are willing to sneak off, then, like thieves in the night?" "Oh, yes-yes-any way at all!"-exclaimed Bloxham. "We can't face the landlord and his bill to-morrow." "How vastly disagreeable!"-said the countess. "This is the fruits of coming to America. But again remember, Mr. Bloxham, I have nothing to do with any bill. I can prove that I came by your invitation." "Now, good people"-said Tommy-" mind every word I'm a going to put at you. As Morris says, when he's speaking one of his speeches- ' Lend me your ears, and be silent that ye may hear.' Firstly, it must be fixed that you are to flit to-night-this very night, after all good people are asleep in their beds. Secondly, you had better behave as well as ever you can at the tea-table, and eat as much as ever you can, mn case it should be your last good meal free gratis. Thirdly, as soon as supper is over, you must all go up stairs and fall to private packing. Fourthly, we must make a friend of Pompey, and take him into the plo, which is easy. We'll just praise the fri;*of his wool a little, and dwell upon his straight legs."   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.       83 "Will he ask much for assisting us?"-inquired Bloxham. "If he does, you can't give it him"-replied Tommy. "Where nothing's  to be had, the king must lose his rights. So Pomp's pay may go with the rest, and be lost along with the squire's-the landlord s, I mean. By-the- by, if I wasn't a good sort of a fellow, you wouldn't find me helping to cheat Lawrence Mayfield for your benefit. Well, seventhly or eighthly, (I forget which,) you must all be ready whenever I have Pompey at the back-gate with the coachee, which he will steal out of the stable, horses and all, for the purpose. It will be bright moonlight; and you must all slip down stairs softly and get in, and he'll drive you up to the White Bear, three miles above, where you'll'see a great sign swinging half across the road-so there'll be no mistake there. The White Bear takes in people at all hours of the night, and you can stay there till to-morrow; be sure, though, to hide yourselves well." "Disgusting!"--ejaculated the countess. -"For what vile scenes am I reserved? Such things could only happen in America!" "If we proceed to Baltimore now"-said Bloxham-" we may be traced thither." "So you will"-replied Tommy-" and there's gre danger of you're all being brought back again. Depend on it, the pursuit will be hot. There'll be the squire and Morris, and all the negor men; and maybe I shall have to join the hue and cry myself, for the sake of appearances. But to put us all on the wrong scent, you'd better strike across the country and go to Philadelphia, or New York, or Boston. I suppose all places is pretty much the sine to you." "Is Philadelphia quite healthy now?"-asked Bloxham. "Quite-and it has been so all along; and you knew it, too, only you never let on. However, there's all sorts of stages a passing the! White Bear, for it's on the great road. So you may take your choicegand go east, west, north or south-only the farther off, the better. Z should advise Canady or else Kaintuck. Yes, as the song says, I think you'd better ' hurry down into Kaintuck.'" "I don't altogether like this plan"-said Bloxham-" but I see not what else I can do. So, Mr. Tring, we put ourselves under your guidance." "Yes-yes"-said Tommy-" a drowning. man will catch at a straw. Well, well, after supper I'll steal up stairs to you, and we'll settle the last of the hash. Remember, 'tis your last supper in this house, so make the most of it." "That we will"-said Horne Tooke. "Oh, yes"-sighed Mrs. Bloxham. "A hard case!"-ejaculated her husband. "Upon second thoughts"-said Tommy Tring--" you'd best not be- have well at table to-night, for fear they should notice the change, and think there's something in the wind. And Madame Wangledon had better whine anditwine about as usual; even more so, if she can." "At least"- saidthe countess, haughtily-" in leaving this hateful house we shall get out of the way of your vulgar impertinence." "True"-said Tonrmy--" so it's an ill wind that blows nobody no  good."  "Mr. Tring is a privileged character"-observed Bloxham. "And so am!"-said Horne Tooke. "There now"-pursued Tommyo-"go in all of you and get your Rupper, and mind every word I've told you. Put yourselves under my   84            THE BLOXHAMS, rule out and out, and I'll engage to get you off safe and sound. Only, when I'm about starting you, mind you don't be particular and boggle about inconveniences. Beggars must not be choosers." As soon as the Bloxhams had all gone into the house, Tommy Tring had an interview with Pompey, whom he commissioned to watch their behavior. Pompey afterwards reported that it was just the same as usual, only a great deal worse; except that Horne Tooke did not speak a word. Tommy then, as a great secret, explained his whole plan to Pompey, with strict injunctions not to say a syllable about it "to any living soul;" alleg- ing that the squire and little Patty might not think it quite honorable to play such a trick even on the British,#and would be likely to stop the whole if apprised of it. Eventually Pompey only entrusted the secret to every servant in the house (with the exception of Molly Bloxham, as they called her), and they all agreed to keep it, in the hope of" having some fun" out of the unpopular guests, in return for the trouble they had given them. Supper over, the Bloxham party pleaded fatigue and went to their rooms, with the exception of Horne Tooke, who wandered about silent and ab- stracted. Tommy Tring slipped up stairs to them for the final arrangement of the plot, and exhorted them to pack as quietly as possible, and not to make too much *tramping over head." The Mayfields were engaged down stairs with some neighboring visitors, who had come over to spend the evening. When Mr. and Mrs. Mayfield retired for the night, they found on a bu- reau an anonymous letter written as follows:- "To asquire Mayfield- "This is to in Form you that things is Going Swimingly, and youre Likely to get Ridd of all your trubbles. If you hear any Noyses to Night trooping About like goasts and pharies, never Let on, but Make yourselves as blind as batts, and as Deef as door nales, and dont Put your heads out of the door and Ax questons. Twill be all the Better for you in the End. A grate Hapiness is Going to Befal you, perpared Under the rose, by a well Wisher. This is All at Present from "yours to Comand till deth "an Unown phrend in Cogg, "T. T. "N B. Dont be Afrade that the Ennemy will be any how Injured in life or limm. Naut is Never in danger." "Now"-said Mr. Mayfield-" we will obey Tommy Tring, and make ourselves as blind as bats and as deaf as door nails. Since he has begun it, let him play out his play. However uncouth the means, the end will, in all probability, turn out well, at least for us." "Really, my dear"-replied Mrs. Mayfield-" it is not right to trust to Tommy Tring. He is quite too simple. There is no knowing what he may do with these people." "Let him take his course"-answered the squire. "With all his sim- plicity he has shrewdness enough not to go too far; and I am very certain that, as he says, they will not be endangered in life or limb. I shall, in- deed, be very glad to have my house cleared of them (that countess espe- cially), even through the agency of Tommy Tring." About midnight there was an indication of a trobpirg and flitting through the house, and the subdued noise that there always is when everybody   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.        85 is trying toi keep quiet. And it was certainly, just at this time, the interest of all persons under the Mayfield roof to be as silent as possible-the mis- tress of the mansion being the only one entirely unadvised of what was supposed to be going on; all the rest having in some way received, learnt, guessed, or imagined their cue. Mr. Mayfield, finding his wife in a deep sleep, thought it best not to waken her; but stealing to the window, he looked through a crack in the shutters (tIo shutters fit quite closely), and he saw, by the light of the moon, the ;oachee at the gate, and beside it Pompey and the'baggage- lnglic luggage. Tommy Tring, making the most of his brief authority, was"' speeding the parting guests." Each was so exceedingly muffled up as to look like "something quaint and strange," and (the baby being fortunately asleep) they all preserved an amazing silence; which was partly owing to the juveniles being earnestly engaged in the act of nibbling long sticks of gingerbread, provided for the purpose by the cook, who said " it was always her maximum that, for stopping the mouths of children, cake was far better than whipping;" a position which, we presume, few chil- dren are likely to controvert. We did hear, however, of an over-good boy, who (by way of being made gooder stilD actually went to his mother and requested a whipping. We conclude she had sense enough to take him at his word; else (now that he is a man) we should have seen his name in the papers, either as a bank-swindler, post-office thief, or check- forger. Our moonlight flitters could not be said to " stand much upon the order of their going," for they hurried along, each trying to be foremost; but Horne Tooke, having got the lead, kept it. In an incredibly short time, the whole troop was packed into the coachee, with all their goods and chattels. Pompey jumped into his seat, gave the horses a gentle hint with his whip, and, as the vehicle drove off, the elegant and dignified Countess Wangledon put out her head, and shook her fist at the house-like Marmion shaking his gauntlet at the towers of Douglas. The coachee and its valuable cargo were soon out of sight; and Tommy Tring, who had watched it till the last moment of visibility, turned house- ward from the gate, smiling, and rubbing his hands in ecstasy. A sound like a multitude of low laughs, or rather giggles, was now heard about the precincts, seeming to issue from various localities; and Mr. Mayfield, throwing wide the shutters, saw heads ppenly appearing from all the doors and windows; peeping and whispering being no longer necessary. He perceived that the secret had been kept in the usual way-that is, as no secret at all; and that his whole household were parties in Tommy Tring's plot. Tommy came under the window, and looking up-"Ah, squire"-said he-." what do you say now? You see how I've ridded your house of these varmint in short order; while you, with all your edication, would have been pondering for means till doomsday. A handful of mother-wit is worth a bushpel of larning, and that's what makes our American people the greatest nation in the world. It was our own wit that got us so well through the war; though we begun in common coats and jackets, with nothing for uniform but white cockades, and most of them only a bit of paper or a rag of linen. To be sure, we had rather better things when we fout at Brandywin  " "I cannot imagine"-said Mr. Mayfield--" by what means you have y    86            THE BLOXHAMS, contrived to get these people away. I confess you have done,me a signal service. But how did you manage it?" "You should never look a gift horse in the mouth"--replied Tommy. "And then let us first be sartain that they are quite off. We won't holler before we are out of the wood. We may yet see them all arriving back again in the coachee, like so many bad pennies. I'll stay up and see. I charged Pompey to be home before the moon goes down. So as it's a fine mild night, more like summer than fall, and I an't a bit sleepy (I never am after doing a good action), I'll go in and get something to eat, and then keep watch out here to see the first of Pompey." "Do so"-said Mr. Mayfield. "Squire"--continued Tommy--"'tis well for you that, at last, you gave me leave to follow my own plan, and fix these people just as I pleased, at my full freedom; else I should not have got along at all. A mittened cat can never be a good mouser. But where's'little Patty all this time?" "She is still asleep"-replied Mr. Mayfield. "So much the better"--observed Tommy--" for if she had been awake I doubt if, in her goodness, she would not have called the enemy back and spiled all. Little Patty's quite too particular, and very fond of straining at gnats : though I can't say I ever saw her swallow a camel." Mr. Mayfield retired from the window; and Tommy ordered in all the heads that were peering out from other casements, and the hands that were holding open the doors. Two hours passed on; during the last of which he stood or rather sat sentry in the porch. At length he started up at the sound of the returning coachee, which Pompey now drove rapidly and boldly up to the gate. Mrs. Mayfield awoke; and having exchanged a few words with her husband, who was putting on his wrapper, she put on hers, also, and accompanied him down stairs. The moon was now going down, and the gray light of coming day began faintly to ascend above the eastern tWees. In a few moments the porch was filled with a gathering of the whole Mayfield clan, in costumes of half night, half morning. Pompey, having hitched his horses to the gate-post, came grinning and laughing, so that at first he could scarcely reply to the questions that were put to him. "Yes, yes"--said he, stroking up the tall wool above his forehead, his custom always when much elated. "It's all done, master. I hinded 'zactly what Tommy told me, only when I acted on my own hook, which is the best way mostly. And now I'll tell you the contents of it." '"Do-do, Pompey"-cried half a dozen voices. "Well, then, to begin at the beginning"--said Pompey. "Once't upon  a time  . No, that's not the way to begin this here. It an't an old story, for it's new and true. Well, then, what shall I tell first? Master, please to set me off, and then, after I get started, I can go on right smart." "You drove them safely?'--said Mr. Mayfield. "That I did, because Tommy said I must. He told me not to offer to upset them, for, if they got-hurt, they would have to be brung back, and spile all. They kept pretty still, till we got quite out of sight of the house, and, then they begun crying it down, and 'busing everybody in it, and saying all sorts of badness about us, as if because my back was to them I couldn't hear. They minded me no more than a dog. It almost took the friz out of my hair to have to set and listen to them. The new woman (she as they called the Counties) was worst of all. And her voice differed considerable from what it was in our house. It was a heap more louder   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.        87 and hash-like. And instead of twisting and squirming about, as she used to do, she jumped right up and down, and said she was catched in a trap, and wouldn't pay for it." "I always saw with half an eye"-observed Tommy Tring-." that all them wavery actions and whiny tones was put on, and not a bit her na- tural way. It was all meant as a show off, and a sign that she was high quality. But good wine needs no bush." "Well"-proceeded Pompey-"I got them at last to the White Bear, and put them all out, bags and baggage. And then I told them I must drive back right away, and leave them to knock up the house, and bargain with the landlord; for it wouldn't do to let him know that I had brung them away from Squire Mayfield's like thieves in the night, a stealing off when everybody was fast in their beds. You know you told me to say so. And I 'vised theim to keep dreadful quiet (just as you said), and not to let nobody know where they come from,.for fear the Black Bear should send word to the squire, and then they might be sure he'd raise his whole house, and be after them with it early in the morning; and what would be worst of all, I should get into a scrape for aiding and 'betting them. I put that part in of my own accord. And I begged them to cut stick and clear off from the Black Bear, and get out of these parts as soon as ever they could; 'for,' said I,' who knows but Tommy Tring (that sinful old tailor) is playing you false all the time, and may be this very minute awakening up the squire and turning state's evidence, and telling him every bit about you, and 'zactly where you're to be found?' " "You villain"--exclaimed Tommy-" did you dare put all that in of your own accord?" "It was only to seem more nateral"--answered Pompey. "To' be sure  they're fools enough to swallor anything" -remarked Tommy. "If you'd like to hear it"-resumed Pompey.-" I can tell a great deal more that I said about you, just to seem more like speaking truth." "I wonder how you kept your face through all-this"-said Tommy. "I always find it easy enough to keep my face steady in a good cause" -answered Pompey.   "Well, they axed me about all the different stages that passes the Black Bear; and seemed as if they couldn'tmake up "their minds what course to take. But I guess they'll take some." "I guess they will"-said Tommy Tring--"I doubt if we   shall see them again in a hurry." "And so"-resumed Pompey--"    perceiving as there was nothing more to be did, and half the Black Bear was beginning to rouse up, and look out of the winders, I turned about and druv right off as hard as I could, leaving these Bloxham folks all standing about the tavern porch in the midst of their rubbage, to answer for themselves any how they chose." "Well, Pompey"-said Tommy Tring--" now it's all over, we must give you some of the credit of this business, for all you stated more to the enemy than was needful. You've acted your part pretty much like a man with a   wise head, and amost as well as the squire, or myself, or Morris Mayfield could have done it. We often see sense and 'cuteness where we do  n'toexpect it, as in your case, Pompey. An ape may sit among the doctors." "Tommy"--inquired Mrs. Mayfield,-" what can you possibly have been tellin g these people, to induce them to leave the house in so strange a manner?'s-,   88           THE BLOXHAMS, "Little Patty"-replied Tommy--" you know the truth should not be spoke at all times." "Yes it should"-said Mrs. Mayfield. Well, but then-who does"--answered Tommy--" or who can, when they have to deal with people, the like of these we've just got rid of- thanks to me and Pompey? If you'd spoke the truth, you'd have told, them long ago how very disagreeable they were; and the squire would have informed them how much pleasanter their room would be than their company; and Morris would have stated how hard he found it to keep from affronting them."                  mas- ', Yes"-added Pompey, in a somewhat low voice--" and even mas- ter's colored- folks would have told'em how we hated and despiceated 9em."  " No-nolittle Patty"'--continued Tommly Tring-- I've letthem down eas ; and through means of me, youie got them well ridded off. So yo should praise the bridge that's carried you safe over. Now it's high tim for all good p-eople to be in bed, or the sun will rise before we get these. We've only time for a short nap; so we must make it up by sleeping long and hard to-night." "r But tell me how it was, and how did you get them away. I fear you have been saying and doing very wrong things"--pursued Mrs. Mayfield. "' Riddle me, riddle me ree"-replied Tommy. "Them that knows the secret will sleep well for knowing that the thing's well over,-and them -that don't know it will sleep better for not knowing it at all. So now good night, or good morning, whichever you please." "Well--well, my dear"--said Mr. Mayfield to his wife--" let us then enjoy the bliss of ignorance till we all meet at the breakfast-table; though I shrewdly suspect that you and I are the only unenlightened persons in the house." When all wasexplained, though Mrs. Mayfield disapproved much, and her husband a little, of the way in which Tommy Tring had maneuvred to get clear of their troublesome gu ests (the only way, he said, that was likely to start them), the relief of finding them gone seemed so great, that the house was all day unsettled with rejoicing. They soon ascertained that the Bloxhams had taken the stage for Lancaster-the countess having parted company with them, and proceeded to Philadelphia. They had been very reserved during their few hours stay at the White Bear, had kept entirely to themselves, and givenwno reason for leaving the Mayfield house in the night, or for leaving it at all. Bloxham had mur- mnured so much at-paying the very small bill presented to him at the White Bear, and insisted on so many curtailments, that the landlord told him he would make him a present of the amount of their entertainment, and regard him and his family as travelling paupers. Bloxham gladly took him at his word, and put up his purse; and Horne Tooke said to his father-"Pa', we would never have been let off so easy in England. So we had better not go back there." The expenses of the Countess Wangledon being included in this forgiven bill, she became somewhat tranquillized; and at parting, signified to the Bloxhams that, " though she had found by expe- rience that it was always safest for a lady of fashion to keep within her own sphere, and never to associate, directly or indirectly, with persons who moved in inferior circles, yet still they should always have her good wishes." ,' Thank ye for nothing"-said Horne Tooke, With a low bow.   OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS.        89 The soi-disant Countess Wangledon was a woman who had been educated for a teacher in a boarding-school. She had married a provincial actor, and appeared in various provincial theatres, but had never reached the rank of he- roine. After her husband's death, she quitted the stage, or rather the stage quitted her, and suppressing her real name, she lived as governess in several families where there was more money than gentility. In this capacity she had been enabled to visit the continent. On returning to London, she concocted several novels for the Minerva Press of that time, the authoress being designated on the title-page sometimes as Augusta Fitzroy, some- times as Matilda Stanley. Her excessive pride chiefly originated in a tradition that her grandmother had a sister-in-law, whose brother had a brother-in-law, whose wife was cousin to an attainted and exiled Scottish lord. Therefore, the countess was a Jacobite, which, as she truly told Mr. Bloxham, was a very different thing from a Jacobin. It was this that had put the widow of the Pretender into her head. Like many of her com- patriots, the Countess Wangledon had come to America, nobody knew why; she staid there nobody knew how long; and she. went back to England nobody knew when. But she certainly did go back, for she published there a work entitled "Fashionable Life in America, by an English lady of rank," in which she proved, to the satisfaction of her cockney readers, that the conversation, manners, habits, and way of living among the highest class of Americans, were somewhat inferior to those of the servants' hall in the establishment of an English gentleman. But the book was chiefly a melancholy detail of her own sufferings. She complained bitterly of the plebeian arrangement of American tables; grieved over the absence of silver forks, and mourned pathetically about finger-glasses. As to the Bloxhams, they reached Philadelphia, by the way of Lancas- ter, and afterwards visited several of the principal cities; traveling as cheaply as possible, and staying at cheap houses-for they never again were able to make a lodgment- with a private family. They had a few invitations to dinner and tea from a few persons, who dike Mr. Mayfield) were de- ceived by Bloxham's vituperations of his own government into a belief that he was friendly to ours; but the mask soon wore itself thin. He several times obtained employment in his old vocation of writer for a scur- rilous newspaper, but soon disgusted even his employers, Finally, at the end of a year, they went back to London, where Bloxham immediately turned Tory. He then made more money than he had ever possessed in his life, by writing for one of the periodicals a series of American bio- graphies, in which he. professed to have a personal knowledge of all. the distinguished men of the United States, and gave anecdotes of their private life. We need not say that there was not a word of truth in any of those farragos of impudent nonsense. He represented most of our principal public characters as having sprung from the very humblest classes ; com- mencing his pretended narratives with " this man began the world by saw- ing wood, or that by carrying a hod." One gentleman had originally driven a dirt-cart, and had a brother who was still a scavenger. The father of one sold clams at the corners of the streets ; the mother of another cried "hot corn." An eminent American personage had been born in a jail, where his mother was a washerwoman, and wife to the under-turnkey. But, lest his English readers might imagine that America must be a very fine and thriving country when men of such low degree could so soon arrive at honors, dignities, and wealth, he took care to specify that all these eminent persons were- really in a state of very hollow prosperity. The, 7   :90           THE BLOXHAMS, great merchants were deeply involved in debt; the statesmen had been abandoned by their party; the office-holders were trembling on the brink of dismissal; the practice of the distinguished lawyers and physicians was declining; the popular preachers were losing their popularity; the artists were now starving, and the authors had starved always. Such was the succesfsof these lucubrations, that Bloxham, being now a red-hot royalist, was employed to write an octavo, which he .called the '* Decline and Fall of the American Republic." Its decline he triumph- antly represented as in rapid progress - its fall he positively promised in less than three years. In support of this opinion, he proved that nine-tenths of the American people had now come to their senses, and were groaning under the miseries of the federal union, and pining to throw themselves at the feet of their rightful king, to confess their sin in exchanging his legiti- mate rule- for that of the rebel Washington and other rebels of still blacker -dye, and to beg to be allowed the glory and happiness of again forming a part of the British empire. He described all the resources of the country ,as already exhausted, and proved that even the agricultural interest was destroyed by the unnatural system of every farmer owning the land he cultivated. "In evidence of this"-said Bloxham, in his book--"I was importuned by a man who kept a little tavern (an alehouse w-re should call it in England) on the road side between the River Delaware and a place called Baltimore, to help him along, and give him my custom (which he ; seetmed to think would be a feather in the cap of his house) by bringing Mny family to board and lodge there during the prevalence of the yellow fever, which was then raging in Philadelphia; that city (if I may call it one) never being entirely free from the scourge of pestilence. The man -aforesaid owned a straggling, worn-out farm, and a few miserable slaves, whom he treated so barbarously that a smile was never seen on their ex- pressive faces, and their tearful eyes were perpetually turned upwards in hopeless supplication. ", To make out a living, he was fain to keep a wretched tavern. He was also a constable. Though his majesty's provinces are overflowing, population is so thin throughout the United States, that every man is obliged to exercise several trades, besides holding offices, civil and military. Small and contemptible as the American army is, the officers of the regular -service are obliged to eke out their paltry pay by turning their hands to Anything they can do. So, captains cobble shoes, majors make breeches, -colonels are carpenters, and generals are grocers. "'To return to our landlord of the Washington tavern (whose pride would not allow him to hang out a sign), nothing could equal the imposi- -tions he practised upon us. One among the most intolerable was that, notwithstanding a lady of great quality belonged to our party, he obtruded upon us, at every meal, his own coinpany and that of his wife and children; among whom my own darlings appeared like lambs, amid a troop of young ,wolves all howling out democracy. My eldest son, William Pitt, a fine spirited boy, and a true sprig of the British lion, manfully stood up for the honor of his country whenever it was assailed, till I laid my paternal in- junctions on him to desist. And being the most obedient of children, he painfully submitted to restrain himself, and put a bridle on his fire. In 'fact, we bore everything with the patience of martyrs. Otherwise, I should in all probability-have been ridden on a rail, and my wife tarred and feathered." "The food our host provided for us was scanty, mean, and consisting   OR THE THROUBLESOME VISITORS.        91 of articles most revolting toEnglish stomachs; especially to those that have been delicately brought up-so that-we lived in a state of almost perpetual starvatioh, and were fain to appease our hunger with a few sour peaches (whenever we could obtain them), and now and then a knotty worm-eaten apple. And'yet this extortionate scoundrel presented me with a bill whose extravagance, as Hamlet says, almost made my hair stand on end like porcupine quills. And when I mildly remonstrated (for you must be mild in America--that is, if you are a native of Albion's chalky cliffs), the rogue threatened me with immediate jail, and assured me that (being a constable) he would delight in taking me there himself. I understood, from good au- thority, that, with an eye to this purpose, most of the tavern-keepers and tax-gatherers in America are also constables. It is found convenient. o "Among our numerous annoyances (and not the least)was the bar. keeper; a lame old fellow, somewhat idiotic, whose faculties (if he ever had and) were impaired by the hourly use of brandy and wine mixedto- gether-a favorite beverage in America, where alone it is to be heard of, and of which the head of this animal (named Thomas Tring) was always full, and he was for ever talking about it."  The book of Bloxham had prodigious success. At that time we were not in the practice of reprinting with avidity all the vulgar abuse and non- sensical falsehoods poured out upon our country by the worst class of British visitors. But a copy of this work reached the Mayfields, in somea way through the instrunentality of Horne Tooke, who wrote on the inside of the envelope-"Papa's Lies." On the departure of the Bloxhams from Maplewood, the neighbors made visits of congratulation, expressing their wonder at such guests having been endured so long. In discussing the merits, or rather the demerits of these unpopular foreigners, they were certainly " not handled with gloves on."   And Tommy Tring remarked, "how the  ears of all England must be burning! Mr. Mayfield took shame to himself for having been so easily deceived ,buy such a man as Bloxham, and wondered why he had not seen through him after the first hour's conversation. The following year an English gentleman came over with his family, and bought a  fine estate, on which was an excellent house, in the immediate vicinity of Maplewood, Mr. and Mrs. Templeford were people of sense, feeling, tact, and refinement, and highly prepossessing in appearance and manners. They had three noble boys, and two charming daughters. The whole family made a pleasant impression on all who saw them; and this impression was amply  verified on  farther acquaintance. With an earnest disposition to judge favorably of the country of their adoption, they retained a warm regard for the country of their birth; though they neither vaunted its superiority, nor made invidious comparisons between their time-honored island and the  young nation that has sprfing from it. Notwithstanding Tommy  Tring reminded   him of the adage that "a burnt child should dread the fire," Mr. Mayfield, at the suggestion of his kind-hearted wife, pressingly invited the Templefords to take up their re. sidence at Maplewood till their own house should be quite ready for their comfortable reception. The invitation was accepted, and they remained there a   week. The visit was a delightful one to both families, and the Templefords '" won golden opinions" from all of the house of Mayfield, including Tommy Tiring.    92     THE BLOXHAMS, OR THE TROUBLESOME VISITORS. To the whole neighborhood, the Templeford family was found a most valuable acquisition. In some respects, the Mayfields improved by almost daily intercourse with these polished and amiable Europeans; and the friendship thus commenced was never interrupted. If among the people of England there are many Bloxhams, there are also many Templefords. An.   BARCLAY COMPTON; OR, THE SAILOR'S RETURN. IT was on one of those lovely nights when the tropical moon " lights up a softer and a milder day," that an American frigate was careering her lonely way across that ocean desert which spreads its vast and. trackless solitudes between the Old World and the New. The gallant vessel was returning from a three years' cruise: during which period she had circumnavigated the globe, and had recently crossed the equator for the fourth and last time. Her prow was turned towards the northwest, and the trade wind wafted her steadily in her course. Her top-sails caught the beams of the midnight moon; and on her lower canvass fell a mass of shade which darkened one-half her deck, while the other came out into full light, ex- cept where its floor was chequered by the shadowed tracery of the rig- ging. The foaming crests of the waves rippled their snowy ledges across the widening line of radiance which the bright planet poured down from her meridian height; and if a light cloud came wandering by, it only veiled without concealing her resplendent face. A noble ship, sailing alone on the moonlight waters of the ocean, is a fine and solemn manifestation of the power and genius which Heaven, in its goodness, has delegated to man; and of the beauty and ordeithat pervade every part of the system formed by " the glorious Architectlivine." The sea-air of the low southern latitude blew soft and balmy; and the watches of such a night might be classed among the pleasures of a sailor's life. Two of the lieutenants belonging to our frigate were pacing the deck together, sometimes musing, sometimes conversing, and sometimes (that is, whenever they judged it necessary) giving attention to their pro- fessional duties. The younger officer, Rodney Templin (whom "the gods had made poetical," and also pictoriaD occasionally broke forth into audi- ble admiration of the moonlight scenery of ship and sea. .Being enthusi- astically fond of his profession, he, by an easy transition, descanted elo- quently on the felicitous lot of those fortunate beings whose " home is on the deep." And he cited various " snatches of songs," both old and new, illustrative of the opinion that commences one of our national ballads- "' How blest the life a sailor leads!" "Undoubtedly," said Barclay Compton, smiling at the couleur de rose vision of his young friend, " ours is an existence made up altogether of   "         .  BARCLAY COMPTON, pleasurale sensations, heightened by the delightful excitement of storins, wrecksWand in war-time of battles." "Victories-you should say," interrupted Templin. "Not to mention," continued Compton, "tyrannical commanders, and other domestic troubles that are frequently to be found within the little world of a ship; and from the annoyance of which ' there's no door to creep out.' Nevertheless, I like the service, and would wish for nothing beyond what it offers, if it did not compel me to pass so much of my time at a distance from the place where I have 'garnered up my heart.' Remem- ber that I have a wife and children, who are in my eyes an angel and cherubs. When you are equally fortunate, you will think with me that the two most delightful words in a sailor's vocabulary are 'homeward bound.'" "Well," returned Rodney Templin, "are we not at this present sailing exactly in that ecstatic condition? And will not a few weeks more either realize or set at rest whatever hopes and fears may 'rush on your fancy,' or on that . f Mrs. Compton? I can furnish you with lots of elegant ideas on the subj s3t of hope. I have Campbell's whole poem at my finger ends; not to mention all the charming things that Moore has 'played and sung' about her. Then there is Collins's fine personification of the blue anchor goddess-' And Hope enchanted smiled, and waved her golden hair.' Just as your wife will do, when she sees you coming in at that famous garden gate you have so often talked of, that I see it always in my mind's eye- 'O'ercanopied with odorous woodbine, ' With sweet musk-roses and with eglantine.' But now (as I know it will do-you good) I am willing to indulge you on this beautiful moonlight night, when I feel kindly towards all the world, by listening patiently (and wakefully if I can) to a connected history of your courtship and married life, if indeed you can keep the thread of your narrative straight. I do not expect to see much of you after your arrival at your paradise; and as, unhappily, we may not again be shipmates, and as, like Petruchio's Curtis, I am unwilling to go down to my grave unenlight- ened upon the subject of this marriage, I will now set myself steadfastly to listen to its' strange eventful history ;' promising that in the excess of my present urbanity, I will make due allowance for the optical illusions to which a man is liable when he is in thesingular predicament of continuing desperately in love with his wife." "I only- ask you to wait till you see my Rosalie," said Lieutenant Compton, seating himself on the slide of the carronade on which his friend was now reclining. "And I only wish that, when you do marry, you may be as happy in your choice as myself." "Agreed," said Templin. "And now, mon ami, commence par le corn- mencement." "It is more than five years," began Compton, "since, on one memorable afternoon, when I was officer of the deck, and we were lying at New York just off the Battery, that a party from the city came on board to visit our ship. There were two pair of married people, and two pair of single people. Among them was an old gentleman acquainted with the captain, and disappointed at n6t finding him. on board; and a young gentle- man, acquainted with me. The females were all well-looking; but the gem of the party was a young lady who instantly struck me as the loveliest creature I had ever beheld. In stature she was exactly the juste milieu;   OR THE SAILOR'S RETURN.         95 and she had a fine graceful figure, slender enough for lightness and juve. -nility, and round enough for health and dignity. Her complexion was of mingled roses and lilies." "I understand," interrupted Templin:- "' Twas beauty truly blent, whose white and red Nature's own sweet and cunning hand laid on." ', "Her ringlets," pursued Compton, "looked as if touched with a per- petual sunbeam, and were disposed in the most becoming manner." "A golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men," observed Templin. "Her teeth were of pearl, her lips rubies, her eyes sapphires," continued Compton. "In short, no description can do her justice." "Very well. I can imagine her," said Templin. "Also," resumed Compton, "she was most exquisitely dressed: and you know that dress is a powerful adjunct to beauty. No woman (what- ever nature may have done for her) can ever look well unless her dress is in good taste, and her hair arranged becomingly." "I echo that important aphorism," said Templin, "and despiselts false, though hackneyed converse, that. 'beauty, when unadorned, is adorned the most.' "Well," proceeded Compton, "in a word, Rosalie Tilbourne was re- plete with every sortof loveliness: figure, features, complexion, dress, all -were perfection. Her gown was one of the most beautiful things I ever beheld, and it was easy to perceive that it fitted her exactly. She had a charming scarf, and a divine bonnet-shoes-gloves-all were exquisite. I received the party at the gangway. There was the sweetest fearfulness about her, as in her turn she ascended; and when I assisted in landing her safely on the deck, she was so fluttered, and so agitated with the danger (as she femininely imagined it) of getting on board a ship, that nothing could be more captivating. My frieId Hargrave, who belonged to the party, introduced all its members to me, and to the other officers that had come forward to assist in doing the honors of our frigate. I very soon managed to accomplish my immediate wish of taking exclusive charge of Miss Tilbourne; and I therefore remember nothing about any of the other guests. I endeavored to draw her into conversation, but it was with some difficulty I could induce her to talk; and when she did, her remarks on what she saw, and her occasional questions, evinced such bewitching igno- rance of everything relating to a ship, that I was most happy in putting her right. To be sure, it was a little amusing that she should call the tops the balconies, and the yards the long logs." "Perfectly natural," said Templin. "Nearly all women do so till they learn better." "The charming creature!" pursued Comptoi; " she mistook the capstan for the deck centre-table, and wondered there were no flower-vases, or annuals, or card-baskets upon it. TheA'she was sadly afraid of falling down the trap-doors, as she termed the hatchways." "Very natural, also," observed Templin. "In passing the guns," continued Compton, "she gathered her dress closely around her, lest on touching them they should go off; and, as we became better acquainted, she asked me, in the most infantine manner, what had become of those three very tall huge men, that, while in the boat approaching the ship, she had observed standing up on the deck like three great giants. ' Were they what you call thesentinels?' said she. I i   96.          BARCLAY COMPTON, found that the lovely inquirer meant the wind-sails, which she had seen from the boat, looking large and dark when relieved against the clear sky beyond the ship. So I showed her what they really were; and explained them as contrivances for ventilating the lower decks. She then laughed much at the manner in which they gathered the air into their capacious funnels, and conveyed it down the hatchways. I was enchanted with her sweet simplicity."  "And with her gratuitous vivacity, no doubt," said Templin. "Yes," resumed Compton, " she was full of animation, after her first timi- dity had subsided. I never saw prettier teeth, We had just completed the tour of all the showable parts of the ship, and returned to the upper deck, when the drum beat to quarters. I shall never forget my dear Rosalie's amazement, when she saw the officers and men all suddenly hasten to their respective stations; a ceremony which, when it was over, she inno- cently observed, 'seemed foolish.' When the crew was mustered, the roll-call particularly amused her; and she laughed so prettily as the men answered to their names. But when the band struck up, she was highly delighted, and requested that I would ask the musicians for Ah donne I'amore or Nel cor piu sento. Unfortunately, they were not acquainted with any Italian music; and she begged me to make them learn those airs immediately, as they were very fashionable. 'I must confess I was a little sorry, when at the evening descent of the flag they played the Star- spangled Banner, to hear so lovely a girl inquire,' What tune that was?" Templin raised his head from the gun on which he was resting it, and half sprung up, startled at the idea of an American young lady not know- ing the Star-spangled Banner. )But checking himself, he resumed his po- sition; recollecting that this very lady was now the wife of a doting hus- band, and that husband his friend. "Too soon," continued Compton, "came the moment of departure. And our guests took leave, apparertly much gratified by their visit to the frigate, and by the civilities of her officers; the gentlemen giving their cards, and expressing 'a desire for further acquaintance. You may be sure I did not quit the side of Miss Tilbourne till the last moment4 griev- ing that I could not accompany her to her own door." "Well," said Templin, " when 'her lessening boat unwilling rowed to land,' did she ' cry adieu, and wave her lily hand?'" "No," replied Compton, "but I unconsciously found myself waving mine, till I saw ihe whole party reach the wharf, and drive up the street in two carriages. Next morning, as soon as I could get away from the ship, I repaired to the office of my friend Hargrave, who had accompanied them on board, and was. what is called a rising young lawyer. I asked him, without much circumlocution, if he had any thoughts of paying his ad- dresses to Miss Tilbourne. He assured me that he had not; at which I wondered! To set at rest all doubt on this subject, he confided to me that he was already engaged to a verlcharming girl, whose marriage with him was to take place as soon as she was out of mourning for a brother. I ex- pressed my delight at this information, shook him heartily by the hand, and inquired where Miss Tilbourne was to be found, it being my inten- tion to make her an immediate visit. But Hargrave judiciously entreated me to wait till the commencement of the usual visiting hours; and then not to go alone, but to accept his introduction to the young lady's family. I had not thought of her family; and Hargrave proceeded to inform me that her father, Mr. Tilbourne, was a merchant, who, though living in   OR THE SAILOR9S RETURN.'        97 what is called handsome style, had never been especially fortunate in busi- ness; that he had three sons, one studying law, one physic, and one no- thing; that of his four daughters, three were still at boarding-school; Ro- salie, the eldest, had finished her education about a twelvemonth ago; had since been much in company, and was considered very beautiful. ' That of course,' said I; 'to see Rosalie Tilbourne is to behold the very per- sonification of perfect loveliness. But who are her devoted and acknow- ledged admirers? From what rival have I the most to apprehend?' ' From old Groff Nogenkamp,' replied Hargrave, 'a rich widower, aged between sixty-five and sevehty; immensely fat, with a large full-moon face, and a reddish wig; certainly not to the taste of Miss Tilbourne, or of any other lady, but much encouraged by her parents; who, it must be remem- bered, have four daughters to be disposed of and three sons on hand, who as yet do nothing for themselves.' I became justly outrageous at the bare idea of the lovely Rosalie Tilbourne being sacrificed to this detestable old fellow, for detestable I knew he must be; till Hargrave reminded me that, in our country, no parents can compel a daughter to marry against her own inclination, or prevent her from marrying against theirs. The more I heard, the more I resolved to lose no time in endeavoring to rescue the beautiful girl from all importunities concerning this horrible old villain; though Hargrave assured me he had always borne a respectable character. Perhaps so. But even now, 1 have not patience to think of him. At length we set out on our expedition. I seemed to tread on air, and soon out- stripped my companion; frequently getting so far ahead that he called to me to stop till he came up. We arrived at Mr. Tilbourne's very genteel house, where we found the charming Rosalie alone in the front parlor, practicing on the harp, and accompanying the instrument with a voice which was indisputably capable of great execution. Her mother (as we afterwards learnt) was out shopping. Rosahe was again exquisitely dressed; and without her bonnet, she looked still more beautiful. I was again in- troduced. She received me with evident pleasure. I could not refrain from talking to her in a manner that evinced my admiration. My friend Margle, finding himself likely to become Monsieur de Trop, looked at his watch, murmured something about an engagement on business, and considerately took his leave." iIn a word," said Templin, "you offered yourself that morning to Miss Tibourne, and she was graciously pleased to accept you." !' The lovely creature!" exclaimed Compton. "Had I not reason to be grtified (enraptured rather) when I found that I had at once made a favorable impression on her heart? Could I ever sufficiently love and ad- mii her candor in not denying it? And the noble disinterestedness with whkh she at once declared against the wealthy owner of houses and lands, and gave her hand and heart to me-only a lieutenant in the navy." "You were in uniform, I suppose?" said Templin. "Certainly. Of coarse I wished to look well in her beautiful eyes." "The sacrifice was undoubtedly great," remarked Templin. "An old fat man, with a full-moon face, and a reddish wig, to be relinquished for a tall, elegant youth, wearing eagle buttons, and a gold epaulet, and with fine dark curls of his own, and saying all sorts of delightful things, as fast as his tongue could utter them."  "And yet," observed Compton, with becoming modesty, "how many young girls would have hesitated before they could resolve to give up the   9.8 BARCLAY COMPTON, prospect of a town-house and a country-house, two carriages, plate, jewels, and the probability of soon being left a wealthy widow." "Shame on such girls!" exclaimed Templin. "But as no mercenary marriage ever did or ever could turn out well, I hope and believe they always meet the full punishment they deserve." "To be brief," continued Compton, "I inquired of my now beloved Rosalie at what time her father usually came home, that I might wait to see him at once, and respectfully offer myself as his future son-in-law, She counselled me to defer the interview till next day; as she apprehended more difficulty with her mother than with her father, and she thought it best to give them both some previous preparation.' Leave it to me,' said the dear prudent creature. 'I am not their only daughter, and they cannot expect to get rich husbands for us all. My sister Theodora will be out next season; shd is very pretty; so who knows but old Nogen- kamp may fancy her? And it is not quite impossible that she may be will- ing to take him, for she has been all her life at a country-boarding school, and of course knows nothing. Now 1,' continued Rosalie, ' was educated here in the city, at Mrs. Frotherham's; but papa found it so expensive that he said -he could not afford the same for all his daughters; and mam- ma's friend, Mrs. Seebright, told her she had always remarked that girls  who played and sung tolerably and waltzed passably, and merely took lessons on the languages, married off quite as well as those that were great musicians, and great dancers, and great French ,talkers, and great Italian singers, and great German readers.' The dear creature! how de- lightfully she prattled! Every word is indelibly engraven on my heart.; And yet I almost wonder I can remember so accurately all that she saidi when I was absorbed the whole time in admiring the surpassing loveliness of her face, and the graceful beauty of her form. Well-to be brief again-M-rs. Tilbourne came home just as I -was about to tear myself away; and I was introduced to her by her charming daughter. She was a fine-looking woman, with a great deal of manner; but, desirous asli' was to conciliate her, I saw that she regarded me with no very benimg aspect. -As, at Mrs. Tilbourne's unexpected entrance, I was seate sofa with her daughter's hand in mine, the elder lady might, perhaps, hale had some suspicion of the subject on which Rosalie and I were ccdn- versing."        / "I think it most likely she had," observed Templin. - Barclay Compton proceeded. "On a hint from Rosalie--the adote darling-- Itook my leave soon after Mrs. Tilbourne's arrival. I willbnot attempt to describe to you all I endured, while the hours were dragging along their leaden feet, till the moment arrived when I could again Visit the' dwelling of my adored. I found Rosalie with her father and mother. Judge of my rapture on being received by both parents in a manner that equalled my wishes, and went far beyond my hopes. The dear/little diplomatist had made everything smooth. I offered references as to character, connections, &c.; but the excellent people told me thal none were necessary. All was soon settled; the father shook hands wiih me, as his son-in-law elect; the mother made me a complimentary speech; and Rosalie's small white hand was officially put into mine. In A short time, the old, people kindly departed; the mother (as I afterwards under- stood) to write circulars to her friends informing them of her dahighter's engagement; and the father to announce the news in Wall street Was not this flattering! It is true that, when we were alone, my Rosalie told   OR THE SAILOR S RETURN.         99 me that, at first, she had much difficulty in inducing her father and mother to allow her to-relinquish the chance of Mr. Nogenkamp (for it seems he had not quite yet come to a proposaD; but on her positively assuring them both that she was immovably fixed and determined. on marrying no human/ being but Lieutenant Complon, and that, if they did not Consent with a good grace, theymight rely on her running away with him, they at length yielded. Lovely, energetic creature!" "Of course," said Templin, ", the marriage speedily took place." "Not half so soon as I wished, " replied Compton. "Four weeks were required to fit out my charming Rosalie with the paraphernalia con- sidered requisite for brides. In the meantime, being very desirous of re- maining in port awhile, I managed to get myself transferred to a receiving ship.- We were married, took a tour to Niagara and the lakes, and on our return to the city we repaired to a large and very genteel boarding-house, where I had secured lodgings for my wife and self previous to our de- parture. I must tellyou, par parenthese, that the income of the litile property left me by my father now became a valuable addition to my pay. When we returned from the north, we found all my wife's family (except her brothers) established, for the present, in our boarding hoouse; Mr. Tilbourne having failed during our absence. The younger. children had been brought away from school. They were all pretty; and though as yet extremely taciturn, they seemed to be very sweet girls. The sons, as I understood, were all living at a hotel. The truth is, I was, naturally, so happy with my Rosalie, that I was rather lost to everything-else." "I can imagine you," said Templin. Barclay Compton then proceeded to inform his friend that, during th i  first year, of his marriage, he had remained chiefly on shore; and dur.- : ing the second he had only gone to sea twice, and on short cruizes. Meanwhile, they had two children, aboyand agirl. Also, TheodoraTil- bourne did really marry Mr. Groff Nogenkamp; who, a weekafterwards, began to enforce the promise he had previously exacted from her, of drop- ping all intercourse with her own family, lest, as he said, Mr. Tilbourne shoul expect his assistance to help him out of hfs difficulties. Mr. Til- bournle then went to New Orleans, where he found something to do which in New York he would have considered beneath his dignity, or rather lhis gentility. He  left'his wife and younger- children-at the boarding-house, where   Rodney Templin shrewdly suspected that his friend Compton (though he did not say so) had been more than responsible for the expenses of his Rosalie's relations. Be that as it may, Barclay Compton stated that heat length grew very tired of living with his wife and children at a boarding-house; a  mode of existence which ought to be-irksome to all married people.- He therefore took a cottage on Long Island, will a pretty garden, and in a place of very easy communication with the city. Here they commenced housekeeping under the superintendence of Mrs. Tilbourne, her two youngest daughters living with them; and Compton devoted much of his time to the embellishment of the garden, {which he represented as a little Eden,) and to various contrivances for improving the conveniences of, the house. Finally, heconcluded his narrative by saying that the last letter he received from home (and which he had found at the Cape of Good Hope) informed him of his fatther-in-law having sent for Mrs. Tilbburne and her youngest daughter to join him at New Orleans; leaving Bertha with her sister Rosalie "for company." "And now, Templin," proceeded our hero, "I will not conceal from ^KW^^^^   1Q00         BARCLAY COMPTON, you that I anticipate additional happiness on returning home, from having my dear Rosalie and my own house-still more to myself. Ever since our marriage, a portion of her family have been continually with us. We were always, it is true, on excellent terms. They were the neartrelatives of my beloved Rosalie, and therefore I always regarded them in the most favor- able light and endeavored to close my eyes and ears to their little imper- fections. Still there were times when I longed to see my wife bona fide mistress of her own house, and manager of her own children, exercising her own judgment, and not always referring to her mother. I shall now enjoy that felicity. Bertha Tilbourne will be no interruption, for she is one of the gentlest and most passive of human beings. My darling chil- dren are now at a delightful age. You must come often, my dear Tem- plin, and witness and participate in our happiness, till you are induced to follow my example, and set about preparing such a home for yourself." Templin shook the hand of his friend; and for the remainder of the watch they resumed their promenade on the deck, and calculated the shortest time that could possibly elapse before they found themselves at the end of their voyage.        -  The moon was now setting behind the western waves. A faint gleam of her diminished light yet lingered about the ship, and faded away from the darkening ocean. The stars, that had been lost in her effulgence, now again sparkled out in the deep blue of ether. Lieutenant Oompton remarked, with much satisfaction, that certain constellations belonging to the southern hemisphere were now no longer visible. For several nights Tihe Cross of the South had been seen no more, and the bright Canopus m appeared lower and lower towards the verge of the horizon. The north stalr twinkled again at her station; the unchanging friend of the seaman who navigates those seas which spread their world of waters from the burn- ing regions of the line to the frozen shores of Greenland. The inereas- ing breeze blew fresh and fair, and the frigate seemed almost to fly through the waves; while the volumes of foam that she threw around her shone like liquid -fire, with that mysterious scintillation which is one of the won- ders of the deep. The mid-watch was now over, and our two o'cicers, when their successors came to take their places, descended to their cots, to repose themselves for the remainder of the night. After leaving the range of the trade winds, our voyagers continued to be favored by propitious breezes; though to Barclay Compton every day seemed longer and longer. At last their approach to the coast was in- dicated by the usual signs of sea-weed and sea-birds, with other infallible tokens well known to the wanderers of the pathless wave. Columbus himself, on the voyage which gave America to the world, looked out not mole anxiously for land than did our impatient hero; and inorethan once even his practised eye was at fault, in imagining he had discovered what was not yet to be seen. At length, one clear morning at sunrise, the welcome intelligence was announced by a seaman from the mast-head, and the north-eastern coast of New Jersey was soon plainly discerned from the deck. A signal was made for a pilot. A boat shortly ran alongside, and the pilot, on coming on board, produced a New York paper dated within the week. As soon as Lieutenant Compton could get hold of it, he sought immediately for the obituary section, in trembling dread, lest he should there meet the name of one most dear to him. No such fear was realized; and the   OR THE SAILOR'S RETURN.         101 paper went round, till it was fairly worn out in the hands of the midship- men. Before noon, the frigate rounded Sandy Hook, arid proceeded gallantly up to the bay, the forts firing as she passed. She anchored off the Bat- tery, and, in answer to the acclamations of the citizens assembled to greet her safe return after a three years' absence, she complimented the town with the accustomed salute of thirteen guns. The captain had already landed; and the officers respectively prepared to go on shore, as soon as their duties would allow them to leave the ship. It was not long before Barclay Compton sprung down the frigate's side into the little boat that was to carry him to his long wished for home. As he took his seat in the stern-sheets, he looked up at his friend Templin, who, remaining for the present on board, stood leaning over the taffrail, and gaily, yet tearfully, our hero exclaimed-- '"Now for my wife and children!" The season was verging towards the close of October. The varied and glowing tints that color so richly the foliage of mid-autumn were now fading into a dusky brown, relieved only by the deep enduring green of the cedars. A bleak north wind swept rudely through the bowing branches, scattering down showers of leaves, and whirling them in eddies along the road. The sun glared fitfully out, amid volumes of heavy clouds that were wafted wildly across the lessening blue of the sky, and cast their dark shade upon the face of the waters. Yet all was warm and cheerful in the mind and heart of Barclay Compton, for the hour had come, which, after a three years' absence, would restore him to his home. It was not long before he found himself in sight of his own little domain; and, leaping from the boat before she had touched the shore, he ran, rather than walked, towards " the modest mansion" that contained his cherished treasure. When our hero arrived at his garden-gate, he would, in calmer moments, have found some little difficulty in throwing it open, as one of the hinges was off; neither did he perceive a sort of hollow or swamp, or, in plain terms, a dirty puddle, that lay just at the entrance. Also it escaped his ob- servation that the large and once flourishing rose-trees, which had stood there so long like beautiful sentinels, were now entirely dead; that the garden-beds were overgrown with weeds; and that the gravel-walk which led to the door was tufted with faded grass.  The noise of flinging wide the gate, and the sound of his steps on the gravel, seemed to have produced no effect on the inhabitants of the house, not one of whom was visible at casement or in porch. All was blank and silent. No children "ran to lisp their sire's return."  No wife " sobbed aloud in her fulness of heart." On trying the front-door, Barclay Compton found it fastened. Thefefore, throwing up the sash of the nearest window, he jumped intothe front par- lor, but found no one there except a dirty Irishwoman, who was see-saw- ing herself to sleep in the rocking-chair. She started up and screamed at the top of her,voice, "A thaif! a thaif! thaives! and murter alive!" "Hush! hush!" said Compton. "This is my own house. The door was fast! Where is my wife? Where's Mrs. Compton,?" "Ah! indade! and is it come home you are?" said the woman. "I'm so wake with the fright I can't stand on my legs." Then, sinking into the rocking-chair, and lowering her voice, she added, " sorrow a master did XI ever see, that, instead of knocking at the door like a jontleman and an ould Christian, comes spanging in at the windor, like a white boy or a carder; frightening people's life out."   1602          BARCLAY COMPTON, "Is my wife Well?" exclaimed Compton. "Are  my children well? Tell me this instant where I shall find them." "As to ttiewife," ieplied the Irishwoman, (for you wouldn't have me say the mistress, being it's what nobody does in this free country), she's above stairs, taking her artenoon's nap; and nobody mustn't waken her forthe dear life. And Batsey (the tother young woman, for I'm the head cook) is gone to walk the childer out of earing of the house; sing as chow bekase when they're in it, the boy, kapes up such a riot and ramping, and the gal such a scraiching. and scraiming, that naither the mother nor Miss Bartha can't get their slapes out in pace and quietness. And, if the thruth must be tould (which isn't always nadeful naither), now when dinner was got through with, and there was nobody to the fore, I just stepped in here to take a little lollop in the rocking-cheer, before I washed up my dinner-dishes, bad luck to them (though it's few they are), with all the throuble they give me, a scraping and. cratching the grase offi . Them what hires a head cook of the name of Biddy O'Rourke should kape an under- gal to wait on her, and clane after her, and not beexpacting her to do any other dirty work than the cooking. Ah! and where's the man gone then! Anyhow, it, ain't manners to bounce up stairs and lave me in the middle of m'y spaking. Butthere ain't no jontlemen-never in no free countries; and no great store of ladies . nailher." !Barclay Compton had indeed bounced up stairs at the ved beginning of 'Biddy's narrativel which, unperceived by herself, almost im nediately be- came a monologue  At the top of the staircase he met a thin, sallow-faced female, in the most slatternly dishabille he had ever seen, and in whom, till she threw herself into his -arms, he could scarcely recognize his beloved Rosalie.  Why, Barclay,' said she, "how soon you have come back! I was quite astonished when old Captain Seaview sent me word that your ship had been telegraphed as they call it, and that I might expect you home this aftetnaon, When 1 laid myself on the bed after dinner, I thought I should never get to sleep for thinking how short a time it takes people to go. all,ever the world." ,l Rbund it-you mean," replied Compton. "But how are the dear chil- Oh I quite well. And so is, Bertha. She has been taking her nap on my bed for'soinehtow her own has not happened tobe made to-day. Your comingarousaed heriand she is now dressing. But come; let us go down into the ,front parlor.", They did so, and found, the disordered and cheerless room vacated by its last occupanrt. Mrs. Compton threw herself infto the rocking-chair, and Barclay took a seat opposite: tother on a sofa that filled one of the recesses. ie looked with wonder at theravages which three years had made in the -beauty of hisewife.. His previous absences hadbeen soshort;,and his vision so dimmed by the intensity of his love, that, in his partial eyes, she had till now always appeared lovely, Moreover, her mother, Mrs. Tilbourne, who attached great importance to dress, had taken dare that' Rosalie's should never be neglectedi while under her cognlzance.- And alsofthat the house- hold affairs should be so condtcted as to keep up at:least the appearance of "'living like their, neighbors;." Blt-it was noiwn more than a year that Rosalie had been left to herself, with no better a companion than a dull and indolent sister, who, like most persons that have/no resources within them- :selves, was never contented except when she was visiting about, and be- , 1    R   OR THE SAILOR S RETURN.        103 stowing her insipidity upon people whose houses she found less uncom- fbrtable than the one which was called her home. To return to Rosalie Compton. She had grown thin and bony, and her once white and delicately smooth skin was now yellow and shrivelled. The rose had faded from her cheeks; her teeth looked discolored, and in- deed neglected, and two of the most conspicuous were gone. Her eyes had lost their brightness; and, as their expression had never been intellec- tual, whatever beauty they once possessed existed no longer. Her once luxuriant hair had become dry and scanty. She had long since given up curls, as too troublesome: and her disordered tresses were partially con- cealed under a soiled and rumpled cap, trimmed with crushed gauze ribbon that had formerly been, pink, and the remains of some broken and faded flowers. As she had neither collar, frill, nor .any other white thing about her 'neck or face, her now unbeautiful skin looked to great disadvantage against a dingy calico wrapper, one sleeve of which was half torn out at the shoulder, the other slit up nearly from the wrist to the elbow. The wrapper, being unfortunately made to fly open, discovered an old-plaid silk petticoat, defaced with numerous stains and grease spots, which it had re- ceived in its original form of a frock; and from its draggled and faggled hem at the bottom, small tufts of dirty wadding were oozing wofully out. On her feet, which she had thrust slipshod into old light-colored slippers, were black silk stockings, with what are called drop-stitches running the whole length from the instep to the ankle; not to mention decided, holes above the heel behind. Barclay Compton looked at his wife Rosalie, first in mute astonishment, and then in unspeakable sorrow. She had become so habituated to negli- gence of dress and to the discomforts of an ill-kept house, that it did not enter into her weak, mind to offer any excuse for either. It is true Rosalie had been apprised of the arrival of Compton's :ship quite in time to get herself and other, things a little in order for his- reception, after so long an absence: as any woman of even tolerable sense and feeling would naturally have done. But had such an idea chanced to come into her head, she would have dismissed it with the silly and selfish reflection, that,he was only her husband; and, consequently, it was not worth while to put herself the least out of her way on his account. How many wives have in this manner lost,first the respect and then the affection, of. the man whom they have vowed at the altar to love and honor. "Well, Barclay," said, Mrs. Compton, "you see ma? has left me. And I can't say I miss her much, for she was always fidgetting and fussing; and saying this must be done, and that must be done; and setting the servants to work,; and making the children behave -thetmselves; and insisting on my being nicely drest, just as if I was still a girl, and not married. To say the truth, I find .it quite a relief to be without her. As to Bertla, she is notody.  So we get along very well together: each taking her own course, and not meddling with the other. To be sure I might have a great deal of trouble with the children, and the house, and the servants, if I chose to take it. But I find the best way is to let things go, and not worry myself at all. And so, somehow, we get along."           -^u^. - "Somn'ehow, indeed!" thought Barclay Compton, as he sadly: i0el his eyes from his once neat and handsome wife, and east them aroOlurnfiii oom, which evidently had not been put in order that day.; to say nothing of the general aspect of the defaced and neglected furniture., all of which looked as if it had been a dozen years in use, and ill, used all the time. On the   104           BARCLAY COMPTON, \ stained and greasy marble of the pier-table stood an astral lamp, with a large hole broken in the side of its ground glass shade, which was therefore un- serviceable. On the tottering centre-table, which had lost one of its castors, sat a candlestick whose never cleaned silver was so obscured with dark spots and streaks that it looked worse than Britannia metal. The candle of the preceding night had been allowed to burn down into the socket, and the snuff was still standing imbedded in the remains of the spermaceti, which, overflowing the edge, had found its way to the much abused, but once very handsome, table-cover, whose natural tints were now scarcely -visible; so sadly had it suffered from stainings, greasings, scorchings, smut- ings, inkings, and all the other ills that a table-cover is heir to. In a dusty snuffer-tray, lay on its side a half open and one-handled pair of snuffers, with the black candle-enuff bursting out, some of which was scattered on the table,where it had burnt an additional hole in the unhappy cloth. The window-panes looked of a dim brown for want of washing. The cords of. the Venetian blinds were out of order, so that one blind would never go up, and the other would never come down. Fortunately this last belonged to the window through which Lieutenant Compton had made his entr&e into his own'house. The handle of the door-lock was off, and the lock itself hung by one screw, so that the door could not be shut closely; and Comp- ton afterwards found that every lock in the house had become deficient in something. Tohavethem,or indeed anything else, repaired,seemed never to have entered his Rosalie's mind. Though so late in the season, the matting remained yet on the floors, and was in some places worn into slits from the rude manner, in which tables and chairs were scrawled over it. Though ihe day was so bleak and chilly, there was no fire in either parlor, the door being open between them. The grates which Compton had left were no longer there. The fireplace of the backroorm was shut up by a tawdry chimney-board: that of the front parlor was occupied by a dusty jar of dead dahas flanked by two andirons, which, as well as the brass fender, were green with verdigris. "The afternoon is very chilly," said Compton. "Why are you with out fire?" "Oh! we have not thought of fire vet." "It is really quite time it should be thought of. But why have the coal- grates been removed?"  "Oh! I found a coal fire quite too much trouble. It was so hard to get it to burn: and it was always going out. And then there was no making it up-again so as to do any good, without raking out all the dead coal, and giving it a fresh start with new kindlings. And kindlings were always scarce, and always when most wanted there were none at hand. And we were always out of charcoal; for, when we had any, we somehow used it all up directly, as it seemed the only thing for a quick fire. And, after ma' went away, I found I could not manage John; so I despatched him; or, rather, he despatched himself, by the end of the month. And I had half a dozen other waiters in less than six weeks, and every one of them was worse and worse. And at last I concluded to give up keeping a man- servant; for, after they got used to me, none of them ever minded a word I said. So I have been making out somehow with a cook, and a chambermaid, who attends to the children beside: and Murphy, one of the waiters at the tavern, stops in sometimes when he goes of errands, and does a job or two for me; though, to be sure, he charges very high. As to the women-servants, they too are bad enough; and I can get none to ^^ s'rfs-'S ^   ^^^^^^^^^   -OR THE SAILOR'S RETURN.        105 stay with me, unless I let them do pretty much as they please. Every one of them hated coal fires, and I got out of patience with coal myself. So I had the grates taken down; and I commissioned Murphy to get nme andirons and fender for this parlor, and a chimney-board for the other. And we burnt wood the remainder of the winter, and had very little trouble except with the smoke." "And where are the coal-grates?" inquired Compton. "I don"t know. I believe they are somewhere in the back cellar; or perhaps Murphy took them away. Yes, I rather think he did." "No doubt of it," observed Compton. " But let our present considera- tion be how to obtain a fire, for the afternoon is really too cold to be com- fortable without one. The wind seems rushing in at all quarters." "La! Barclay-you a sailor, and to think so much of a little cold wind! I dare say you have been colder than you are now, a hundred thousand times, in sailing all over the world. My opinion is that sailors ought to put up with everything without uttering a word of complaint." "But that opinion is not mine," said Compton. " On the contrary, I think there is no merit in submitting tamely to any inconvenience that can be easily remedied. Also, the more a sailor has suffered at sea, the more he is desirous of being comfortable on shore; and the longer he has been absent, the more he appreciates his home, and wishes to find it a good one." "Well, dear," said Rosalie, "if you are so urgent about having a fire, I really don't know who is to make it. Murphy was here this morning, and it's a chance if we see him again to-day. If you go out to the gate, and look up and down the road, you may perhaps pick up a boy, and coax him in by the offer of a shilling ar two. I have to do so sometimes, when things get to a pitch, and Murphy is not to be had, and we are suffering to get something done which nobody in the house will do. But the shortest way, dear Barclay, will be for you to make the fire yourself. I dare say you have often had to do so at sea." "Never," replied Barclay. "The chambermaid is out walking with the children," said Rosalie. "And I told her to keep them out all the afternoon; for whenever. they are in the house there is no peace for their noise." "Poor things," said Barclay, "they will come home very cold. I will ring for a fire immediately." He attempted to do so; but his wife told him the bell-wire was broken. "I'll try the bell of the back parlor," said he. "That is broken also," observed Rosalie. "The bells are broken all over the house." "Why have they not been repaired?" "Oh! they were of no use, so it was not worth while to keep- them in order. Since ma' went away, I never could get a servant that would mind the bell. And those that I have now protest positively against it. Betsey says it would hurt her feelings to come to a bell, and Biddy declares she. will not be rung about the house like a dog." "I never knew of dogs being rung about a house," said Compton. "But I am weary of all this nonsense. And a fire there must be." "Well then, dear," replied his wife, "I think you will have to make it yourself. Even if Betsey was at home, I know it would hurt her feelings to be asked to do it, And as for Biddy I could not'dare to hint such a   106          BARCLAY COMPTON, thing to her. She would raise an uproar that would collect a mob before the house." Compton grieved to find his wife so completely servant-ridden. She looked so thin, and pallid, and chilly, that he knew a fire would really do her good; and he thought of his children coming home shivering from their bleak windy walk. So, after a short pause, he went down into the cellar, brought up a large back-log, and laid it on the hearth; next an armful of smaller wood; and then he resorted to the kitchen for a shovel of kindling coals. Here he cast but one glance around, and then walked steadily up to the fireplace, afraid to take another view; for never was a kitchen so dirty, and in such disorder. Biddy was now engrossed with the arduous task of washing one dish and four plates. She stared at seeing Compton, and exclaimed, "Eh! and what is it ye're a wanting? It's an ill-becoming sight to see a jontleman in a kitching; above all, when the head cook is washin' up the dinner dishes. But this Ameriky is a quare sort of place, and han't got no manners. Oh! is it fire you're after then? Itis well there's to be fire at last. There ought to have been some any day these three wakes: only there wasn't nobody to meake it." Compton, of course, vouchsafed no reply: but took a large shovelful of live coals. "And is it any tay you expect to have," said Biddy, "a rob- bin' the kitchen fire after this fashion? so that there will be nothing left to kendle up, and bile the kittle, without my luggin' fresh wud from the cel- lar." Compton made no answer, but carried his shovel of coals to the front parlor, where he soon succeeded in making a good fire. His wife drew close to it, and shrugged her shoulders, saying, "Well, really, a fire in a cold afternoon is a very comfortable thing, when one has a husbap!' to make it." Bertha Tilbourne now made her appearance down stairs, attired in an airy summer costume of printed muslin, made very low in the neck, which was edged with a narrow lace, and she looked sadly in want of a pelerine, or cape, or something that would seem more comfortable than a small thin silk scarf thrown back from her shoulders, and confined only by her elbows. On her head was a transparent bonnet, looking as if the wind would whistle through its casings. Miss Tilbourne received her brother- in-law with an unmeaning smile, hoped he had been well since she last saw him, said she was going to drink tea with her friend Maria Melsom, made a boarding-school courtesy and tripped off. The young lady had scarcely gone, when Mr. and Mrs. Compton were startled by a loud roaring noise, that seemed to shake the whole house. Flakes of burning soot began to fall, and the chimney was found to be on fire. "There! there! Barclay!" cried his wife. "See what you have done! I don't believe the chimney has been swept since ma' went away. And yet, somehow, we got along with it. There now! hear how it is roaring and raging! and look at the bits of fire all showering down! Oh! oh!. Put up your head, and see if it is not blazing out at the top. You need not look about for a hearth-rug; don't you see the matting is down? Take off your coat, and hold it before the fireplace." Barclay, however, tore off for this purpose the cloth table-cover, throwing down the candlestick, snuffers, &c.; his wife exclaiming, "Oh! oh! I wish men would never come home!" Tile Irish woman now ran from the kitchen to scold at Compton for having made the fire.!The alarm having spread, the neighbors came to   OR THE SAILOR'S RETURN. assist; and, the usual -means being employed, the conflagration of the chimney was extinguished. When Compton came down from the roof, which (the wind being high) he had had much difficulty in saving, and which, spite of wet blankets, &c., had several times caught fire, he found the parlor deluged with the water that had been poured down the chimney. His children had come home: the boy was paddling through the wet, and the girl was seated on the floor in the midst of it, screaming loudlv. His wife lay on the sofa in strong hysterics, which her maid Betsey, extended on the mat, with her head resting painfilly upon a footstool, was trying to copy. A number of men, and a double number of boys. were present, some endeavoring to be ser- viceable, and some only gazing and pushing about. The fender had been kicked across the room: the andirons were overset, and the back-log had rolled forward; while the quenched and blackened wood-sticks lay, some on the flooded hearth, and some had tumbled on the matting. At length, things were restored to tolerable order: Biddy having shaken the hysterics out of Betsey; that she might set her to mopping- up the water that drenched the floor: an occupation which was a sad trial to that young lady's feelings. The soot was not so entirely burnt out as to ren- der it safe to make again a fire in the front parlor, and Compton, having ascertained that every chimney in the house required sweeping, made up his mind to be cold. He  next turned his attention to his children, of whom he had as yet taken but a hasty embrae. They looked thin, pale, and unhealthy, and were still wearing their summer clothes. The boy, who was five years old, continued in a suit of faded nankeen, and a dis- colored straw hat; and the girl, who was four, in a dribby, stringy, dirt- colored printed muslin frock, a battered batiste bonnet, and a little dirty party-colored shawl of frayed barege. The long, dry, tow-like hair of these neglected little creatures hung in elf-locks about their faces, which, as well as their bare hands, were blue with cold. They had red, watery eyes, and noses to match: fever blisters on their lips, and sores at the corners of their months; and were altogether most forlorn and neglected- looking children, and such as are quite unkissable to all but their own. parents. Still the heart of Barclay Compton yearned to his son and daughter, though he now felt that they had but little of the cherub about them, in looks at least. So, as soon as the chimney was put out, he clasped them in his arms, and called them his darlings. Their real names were Wil- liamn and Catharine. After his three years' absence, neither of the chil. dren recognized their father, and they at first responded to his caresses by cries and struggles. At length he succeeded in reconciling them to him- self, and they suffered him to take one on each knee on condition of being allowed to twist at the buttons of his coat and pull at his hair. Peace, however, did not continue long; for the boy began to kick the girlace, and the girl to scratch the boy.  Their father, threatening  them both with punishment, put them off his lap. H e then, in spite of  their screams, conveyed them each to a  corner, and ordered them to stand there; but they both ran out of their corners the next moment, and, sobbing with passion, desired him to go back to his ship; declaring they would not have him for a father. Mrs. Compton, who had been slumbering on the sofa, aroused by their noise, now came to the rescue; and, telling her hus- band that he did not know how to manage the children, she went to a closet, from which she pacified them with a handful of candy , say mg to   BARCLAY COMPTON, Barclay, "Candy's the only thing. There would be no living without it. always keep on hand a good supply. It saves a deal of trouble, and they never get tired of it. And it is so much handier than cakes and sweetmeats." The candy (which their mother served out to them a second and a third time) having put them into a better humor, the children consented to sit on the sofa, one on each side of their father; Mrs. Compton, who had thrown herself into the rocking-chair, telling him the safest way was to let them alone, and, above all, to take cre and keep himself between them. Barclay Compton endeavored to engage their attention by telling them little things that he thought would amuse them; but he grieved to find that, for want of cultivation, their understandings were far below the average minds of children of similar age; and that, being left almost entirely with the servants, and allowed to pass much of their time in the kitchen, they had imbibed habits and acquired expressions to which they ought always to have remained strangers. Our limits will not allow us to detail, at full length, the remainder of this, the first evening of our sailor's return. Suffice it to say that all was comfortless, cheerless, and vexatious. Barclay Compton tried in vain to fancy himself happy. Yet he could neither shut his eyes nor stop his ears. And he began to fear that his wife's entire indifference to all that could make his arrival pleasant, after so long an absence, was an evice that her regard for him had subsided. Had he not been blinded by-his own love (a love which from its commencement had no rational founda- tion), he would long since have been aware that his fair Rosahe had not sufficient heart or mind to be susceptible of true affection for any one. But now that her beauty had faded, her faults began to come out, in their native tints, to the no longer dazzled eyes of her husband. As his vision cleared, his heart sunk; the present was all disappointment; and sad in- deed were his misgivings as to the future happiness of his married life. Next morning, after an ill-cooked, ill-served, and unpalatable breakfast, at which Bertha did not appear, and at' which Rosalie presided in her night-cap, ,the boy and girl squabbling all the time, and, when he interposed, desiring their father " to get along back to his ship," and " leave them be," Barclay Compton began to entertain serious thoughts of a gentle expostulation with his wife. He therefore expedited the departure of his children to play (or rather to scramble and screech) in the garden; the clouds of the receding evening having departed, to rain in some other place. 'Rosalie," said Compton, O in what way do you generally employ your time?" "Well, I don't know. In no particular way. But somehow the day gets through." "Do you devote much of your time to music " "  'Pho! not I, indeed. You know I gave up my daily practising soon after we were married; for why should I practise when there was nobody to make me? And, since you have been away these last three years, I don't believe I have played one of your favorite songs, or indeed anything else. The truth is, after all the strings of the harp were broken (which was very soon, for some of them always snapped in wet weather),  thoughtit was not worth while to get it new strung; so the harp is stowed away among other lumber in the back garret. As to the piano I let it stand where it is, in the back parlor; for sometimes in a rainy day it keeps the children out of mischief to let them drum on it. It has not   OR THE SAILOR'S RETURN.        109 been tuned since you went away. The sounding-board is cracked, and Willy has shoved bits of stick, and wads of chewed paper, under some 'of the keys, so that they will not go down when touched. This he calls pegging up the piano, and no amusement keeps him quiet so long. And then, Biddy has a way of bringing in the dinner before she sets the table; and so she puts the hot dishes on the piano, for there never seems to be room on the sideboard. Altogether, the instrument is in bad order, and I don't think it worth while to have it repaired; for, as I tell you, I am quite out of practice, and music is so much trouble that there is no likeli- hood of my ever resuming it. To be sure, when we were boarding, I used to play sometimes; for among strangers (as ma' always told me) it is neces- sary to keep up appearances, even if one is married. But I cannot see the use of doing so in one's own house, and after one has been settled for years in domestic life, and has nobody about but one's own family and one's own husband."   ,i A Barclay Compton sighed. "Perhaps," said he, " you have acquired a fondness for books. Do you read now?" " Not I, indeed. I cared nothing for books when I was a girl, and I never heard of a woman taking to reading after she was married. Bertha gets a book sometimes; but I always see her fall asleep over it in a few minutes, and I am sure I should do the same, Whenever I have tried reading, I always found history, and travels, and all sorts of true books were dull and tiresome; and as to novels and tales, they seemed to me nothing but foolish lies; and poetry I have all my life abominated."  " Do you sew much?" "No. I have quite given up worsted work. Bertha does a little at it, and always keeps some on hand to take with her why i she goes out to spend the day, or take a sociable tea with the neighbors. As for plain sewing, I never did any of it in my life, and I certainly am not going to begin now. I suppose you think the children ought not to be wearing their summer clothes so'late in the season." "Indeed I do think so." "Never mind: it will make them hardy. Really there is so much trouble with having a seamstress, or a dress-maker, or a tailoress, in the house, that I always put off the evil day as long as possible; and when I do make up my mind to send for any of these people, they are always engaged elsewhere. I have been thinking of taking the children to the city, and getting them fitted out with ready made things; but somehow it nelr seemed convenient. As for myself, I have pretty much left off caring how I look." "So I perceive," said Compton. "One gets along much easier for not being too particular in anything," observed Rosalie. "And yet, by your own account, you do not get along easily at all. Indeed, there is no difficulty in discovering that there is a great want of comfort in the present condition of your domestic affairs." '"Still we make out." "You exist, I grant. Neither you nor the children have yet died in consequence of all this inertness, and indifference, and misrule, and mis- management; which it grieves me to witness, after having anticipated a very different state of things." "I don't know why you should." "I could not have believed it possible, my dear Rosalie, that, when left 8*0   "O          BARCLAY COMPTON, to yourself, and no longer under the supervision of your mother, you should evince such entire want of judgment, energy, and I fear capability." shYou'ld evine hit it exactly. Capability is the very thing I do want. I never had the least turn for housekeeping or sewing, or dressing children, or malking them behave themselves. Ma' always found it less trouble to do things herself than to teach her daughters, for we are all pretty much alike. When she was going away to New Orleans, she told me how I would feel the want of her; and said she was sorry she had not compelled me to learn something useful, instead of devoting my whole time to music, and dress, and company. Well, why did not she try to bring me up bet- ter? Maybe I might have learned what she called useful things, if she had insisted on teaching me." "n6ty dear Rosalie," said Compton, in a softened voice, " it is not yet too late." 'Yes it is. I can't take thegtrouble now. You will have to put up with me just as I am, for shall never be any better. All your complaining and advising will do no good, but only make me worse, and give me a dislike to you ; for I hate lecturing. And it is quite too soon for you to begin to find fault, when you have only just come home. You ought be so delighted, and so happy, as to look at everything in the best light. And so you would, if you loved me. When a husband really loves his wife, he sees no fault in her." To the truth of this aphorism ,Barclay could not exactly subscribe; but she began to cry, and, not proof against her tears, he ceased his expostu- lation. In trying to rectify the discomforts of the house he found sufi cient occupation for a long morning; while his wife did nothing but sit about, and walk abiout, and loll about, up stairs and down, and look out of the windows at nothing. He had vainly proposed taking the children to town, and commencing measures for their immediate outfit in clothes that were more seasonable; but Rosalie declared she was not well enough; her usual excuse to avoid any rational exertion. Bertha Tilbourne, having taken her breakfast in her own room, and de- voted two hours to her toilet, took a thing that she was working in worsted, anSd went to spend the day with a neighboring family, in which there was one daughter, and five sons. In the afternoon Uarclay Comptoi himself took the two children out to walk; and found it a very troublesome office. In passing near a house that had a cellar kitchen, they both began to pull their father towards the area steps, one saying, "Come, pa', come down here ;" the other perst- ing ' Come, pa , ain't you goi pg to see Sally Stiggins?"  ' Sally Stiggins!" exclaimed 'Mr. Compton; w o i she?" 6 Oh!" said the boy, h she's a girl what our Betsey visits. she lives. here, and does Mrs. Hanley's work, Our Betsey aomost always goes to se'e Sally Stiggins, when she takes us out a walking. And while Betsey and Sally are a talking, Sally gives us a chunk of cold pudding, or a big pickle, or something we don't get at home, to keep us quiet and let them talk. And once Sally took a jar, and gave us preserves, that she said Mrs. Hanley told her to chuck away because they were all a working. And the preserves were all sour and frothy, like beer; and they did not taste very good, but still we thought they were better than none. Let's go to Sally Stiggins. I dare say she'll give us something good: that is, retty good. And then we'll go to deaf Mrs. Minting's kitchen, down yonder at the tavern, and see her Molly and Murphy. Sometimes   OR THE SAILOR'S RETURN.        H Murphy gives me a cent when I ask him a great while. I like Murphy. He. sings Judy O'Flanagan for us, and we all whack our hands just when he does." "I like Murphy too," said little Kate. "He takes me on his lap, and kisses me, and gives me reasons out of his pocket; a reason for every kiss." Barclay Compton was inexpressibly shocked at these revelations; and he resolved to put his veto on any future walks of his children with serv- ants. The children dragged at his hands and coat, urging him with in- creasing violence to go and see Sally Stiggins (" down in Mrs, Hanley's kitchen."  He peremptorily commanded them to desist, assuring them, in his indignation, that they should never again go out with Betsey, and that their visits to kitchens should cease. Upon this, both boy and girl began to jump and scream with all their might, struggling in vain to get loose from their father's hands, desiring him tlFo back to his ship, and telling him that they loved Mhrphy better thanh im. Comptori now thought it best to take the children directly home ; therefore he snatched up the shrieking girl with one hand, and with the other dragged along the boy, yelling like a young Indian. Just as Lieutenant Compton reached his own gate, (the furious little girl trying to scratch her father's face, and the savage little boy biting at his father's hand,) his eyes were greeted by the appearance of Rodney Tem- plin, who was about to enter at the moment, but stopped till his friend came up. The boy, for a moment, ceased crying to gaze at the stranger: but the girl, in her delirium of passion, called out to Templin, "Don't come in! don't come in! You shan't come in at our gate. Pa'! pa'! drive that man away, or I won't be good never." + "No! no!" screamed the boy. " Nobody shall come to our house but Murphy. Pa'! pa'! I'll make you go back to your ship." "So," thought Templin, these are Barclay Compton's cherubs." Barclay, much disconcerted, set down the girl, and let go the boy; and both children ran to the house, screaming that they would "make ma' send away naughty pa'." Templin advanced, and shook hands with his friend, who, greatly embarrassed, invited him in. And Templin thought it neces- sary to apologize for visiting him so soon, by saying that he was going on the following day to set out for the western part of the State, purposing to pass a few weeks with his sisters, both of whom were married, and settled in that section of the country. 4The children had already got into the house; and in their way were making bitter complaints to their mother of the nefarious conduct of their father, in refusing to go and see Sally Stiggins. The mother was reward- ing them with candy; when, seeing through the window her husband ap- proaching with-a stranger, she dropped the candy bag on the floor, and darted out of' the parlor, and flew up stairs. The chimney having been swept that morning, there was now a fire in the parlor; but the sticks had burned in two, and fallen apart, and the room was filled with smoke when Compton and Templin entered; every article near the fireplace being covered with ashes, The children were now quiet, being engaged in picking up and devouring the candy that lay scattered about the floor. Compton having replaced the fallen wood, and raised a window sash to let out the smoke, the two friends sat down, and after some miscellaneous conversation, Templin inquired for Mrs. Comp- ton. Barclay then went up stairs to ask his wife to come down, and to   "2          BARCLAY COMPTON, prevail on her to dress herself to some advantage; for, though her present lishabille was less revolting than that of the preceding day, it was by no means fit to appear in before a gentleman. It were well if, in this respect, some married ladies would not so soon relinquish the habit of considering their husbands as gentlemen. Compton having, with some difficulty, persuaded Rosalie to take the trouble to dress herself, and make her appearance, returned to the front parlor, where he found Templin vainly engaged in trying to make friends with the children. It was so long since Rosalie Compton was dressed, that she found no- thing in order to put on. At last she made her debut in an excessively rumpled light-colored silk dress, in which most of the gathers at the back of the skirt had given way. So also had the trimming in various places, hanging loose here and there like a sort of festoons. Her French muslin pelerine had lain by so long witlstarch in it, that it was cracked and split in numerous places among the needlework; and the lace which trimmed it was so yellow and discolored that Templin erroneously supposed it to be excessively dirty. Having no cap that, on this occasion (or indeed any other), was fit to be seen, she smoothed a little her now scanty hair, and tucked its locks behind her ears with a comb at one side, and a black hair-pin on the other; and twisted the remainder into a loose knot at the back of her head; where, escaping very soon from its fastening, the half of it hung in disorder about her neck. The face of our heroine was now so faded that no traces of its former beauty remained. Its fairness and its bloom were gone, and there was no amiable or intellectual expression to render it still pleasing. The former symmetry and roundness of her now neglected figure had entirely disappeared. She had become thin, bony, stoop-shouldered, and hollow- chested. The first thought of Lieutenant Templin, on his introduction to Mrs. Compton, was, "Is it possible this woman could ever have been handsome?" She sat down on the chair he handed to her, drawled out a few foolish and ill-expressed sentences that meant nothing, and then fell into languid complainings about one's servants, and one's children, and the trouble of keeping one's house, and the inconvenience of one's husband being too particular. Templin thought of that moonlight night on shipboard when Compton had related the history of his love and marriage. The children, in the mean time, amused themselves with squabbling, chasing each other through the rooms, shouting and yelling; the boy knocking the girl about, and the girl pinching, and scratching, and biting the boy. When their father endeavored to silence them, they both united their forces against him; the girl telling him she-" did not want no pa'," and the boy ordering him to sea again; the mother complaining that the candy was all gone, and lamenting that she had nothing to stop their mouths with. In about half an hour Rodney Templin rose to take his leave: but Compton insanely insisted on his staying to tea; and on Templin's reluc- tantly resuming his seat, Compton found an opportunity of hinting to Rosalie that it would be well for her to give some orders accordingly,and to see that things were right. Instead of quitting the room to act upon this hint, she persisted in keeping her seat, and replied in a voice that Templin could not avoid hearing, "La! Barclay, must you have a fuss about everything? Your friend does not expect us to make a stranger of   OR THE SAILOR'S RETURN.'        113 him. I dare say Biddy will have things as well as usual." Having things as usual was exactly what Compton dreaded. After the lapse of sufficient time to have cooked a handsome supper, Mrs. Compton was called out into the entry by Biddy and Betsey; and, leaving ajar the door, both maids were heard to inform the lady that they had concluded neither to set the table nor to bring in tea; Biddy declaring that it was not the business of the head cook ever to do such things; and that, though she had bemaned herself that far, proper pride-would never let her do so again; and Betsey protesting it would so hurt her feelings to set out the table and bring in the tea things before gentlemen, that she should not know where to put her eyes. "What in the world is to be done then? It is too late now to go out and look for a boy."   I "It's never too late to do that," said Biddy. "Boys are plenty enough at all hours and in all pleaces. But it's not myself that's going out to find one. So, Batsey, you may take that business on you." "Think of my feelings," said Betsey ruefully. "I never was cut out for help. I shall have to try something else, for I'm all sensitivity. Living in families will be the death of me." "Troth, then, the sooner you're under the sod the better," said Biddy; "for it's no help you are to yourself, nor to anybody else on the face of the airth. Butif you have your sansafidity, I have my proper pride." Compton now stepped to the door, and tried to make all smooth by foolishy putting a quarter of a dollar into the hand of Biddy, who said audibly, "Is it only a quarter dollar? faith, then, I thought it was a half. However, I dare say the rest will come afterwards. So, to obleege you, I will bemane myself to let you have your tay, though company is to the fore. Well, young lady that lives out for help, how do your falings fale now?" (chinking the quarter dollar at her). The sensitive young lady tossed her head, and walked away to pout in the kitchen corner. At length, after an almost endless delay, the table was set by Biddy, with much noise and rattling of china. Finally the tea and its accompaniments were produced. The children, dragging chairs after them, were the first persons to take their seats at the table, where the boy put his fingers into the butter, and the girl grabbed for a large lump of sugar. When their mother took her seat at the waiter, they both called out to her to give them their tea first. She obeyed, remarking, "anything for a quiet life." Poor Barclay Compton endeavored to engage the attention of his friend by earnest conversation; and Templin, of course, seemed to be not ob- serving anything that was painful or mortifying to his unhappy host. Therefore, he magnanimously made an effort to drink two cups of weak cold tea, the water for which had been smoked, but not boiled. For what is called a relish, there were a few slices of cold, half-roasted veal, that had been left from dinner; and two- plates of heavy, dark-looking, solid lumps, manufactured by Biddy, and termed rusks. Each of the children took a rusk, and, seduced by its sugar, fell to devouring it with a go2t, or rather a want of goi2t, that denoted their being little accustomed to things which were really good. Templin took one, and seemed to eat it. Comp- ton, though his wife set him a good example, could not manage his rusk at all. Asa dernierressort, he rang the bell, (having himself put it in order tht morning,) and the Irishwoman, somewhat mollified by the fee, did vouchsafe to make her appearance at the parlor door. Compton   "4           BARCLAY COMPTON, looked at his wife, and finding she did not speak, he desired Biddy to bring some bread. "There's not a bit of brad in the house," shouted Biddy, " and there's nobody to go for none. Batsey Won't go becase of her falings; and as for myself, who ever heard of a head cook going to the beaker's? And what can paiple want with brad when there's such ilegant rusk on the teable? See how the childer's a bolting it down." Barclay Compton was so disconcerted, so annoyed, and so incensed, that he felt one moment as if he could have turned mistress, maids, and children all out of the house together: and the next instant as if he would gladly betake himself indeed to his ship, and sail away and never come back again. Mrs. Compton made a sign to Biddy, who slammed the door and de- parted; and the lady then held forth at full length on Biddy's numerous bad qualities, but wound up by saying foolishy, that she was afraid to turn her away, lest she should get a worse in place of her. Bad housewives have always bad servants. Rodney Templin contrived adroitly to insinu- ate that he had dined late, and therefore had rno inclination to eat anything with his tea. And, as soon as politeness would allow, after they had-quit- ted the table, he took his leave, glad to escape from the uproar raised by the children, when Betsey (who was impatient to get out and confer with Sally Stiggins) appeared at the door to take them to bed. At parting, Rodney Templin unconsciously pressed the hand of his friend with a fervor which seemed to imply sympathy for his condition: and Barclay Compton colored to the temples. It is useless to follow farther the unhappy life of our hero. Notwith- standing the wretched state in which he found his family, Rosalie, during his absence, had wasted as much money as would have provided them all with every comfort, and might amply have furnished herself and children with every article of dress that was required for convenience, neatness, and gentility. And; there was nothing remaining to show how these sums had gone. There is no extravagance equal to mismanagement. His wife was too silly, too heartless, and too indolent to improve in anything; and now that her beauty was gone and his eyes were opened, Barclay Compton saw that all he could do was to remove his children, as much as pos- sible, from her influence and her example. He placed both of them at good boarding-schools, where they were soon compelled to leave off scream- ing, fighting, and candy. Before he again went to sea, he rented his house, sold his furniture, (which, having been badly kept, brought not a third of its original cost,) and, to her great joy, established his wife in one of the New York boarding-houses. Bertha accompanied her sister, and found it ne- cessary to improve her chance of a husband by being more wakeful. Rodney Templin went on his intended visit to his sisters, and at the, house of one of them, Mrs. Morton, he renewed his acquaintance with Emily Sandford, an orphan niece of that lady's. Miss Sandford had had the advantage of being admirably brought up by her uncle and aunt, who during ten years had had no children of their own. There were now two girls and a boy; and Emily, who was the love and delight of the whole family, assisted Mrs. Morton in her excellent management of house and children. Emily Sandford, in addition to considerable beauty of face and figure, possessed those qualities of heart and understanding which light up the countenance with unfading charms. Her dress was always becoming, tasteful, and in the nicest order; and she was well skilled in the use of   OR THE SAILOR'S RETURN. * her scissors and needle, and in all the details of genteel and liberal house. keeping. She had no showy or useless accomplishments but she read much, conversed well, and possessed that native refinement, and that uner- ring tact which always result from a kind disposition and an acute intellect. Templin had known Emily from childhood, but it was not till this visit that he thought of her as a partner for life. He had little difficulty in in- spiring her with the feelings that he wished. They plighted their faith, and on .his return from his next cruise they were married. Never was there a happier home than that of Rodney Templin: and it was doubly so when he always found it delightfully prepared for his reception on coming from sea. Not only to the proverbially susceptible gentlemen of the "United Service,' but to all other youths who are prone to falling in love, we earnestly recommend (though we fear our admonition will be vain) that they shall delay "proposing" till 4hey have had time to, learn something of the disposition, character, and habits of the lady; and till they have ascertained if the sentiment they. believe themselves to feel for her is any- thing more than a mere fancy. They may rest assured that the passion excited by nothing better than a pretty face will evaporate even before that face has faded; and that the best security for ever-enduring awld ever- brightening love is to "Let the spark drop from reason that kindles the flame." THE END. *    
         
       
   
