
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Linwood .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7090
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Linwood 
            
               LINWOOD: WITH  OTHER  STORIES. NEW YORK: OLIV E R S. FEL T 39 WALKER STREET, 1865.   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, by CROSBY & AINSWORTH, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of 1Massachusets. STEREOTYED AT THE BOSTON STEREOTYE FOUNDRY, No. 4 Slpring Lane.   CONTENTS. "NWOOD; OR, THE CHRISTMAS GIFT. a PAGB CHAP. I. THE REQUEST  .. .................. 7 II. DR. ARLINGTON ...... .... ... .... 10 "I. THE VISIT ..................... . 15 IV. A NEW  HOME . ................... 18 V. THE DEPARTURE .. .......... ...... 20 VI. ARRIVALS .... ......... ........ 24 VIL. SICKNESS ....... .. . ............ 31 VIII. WILFRED STANHOPE ............... . 35 IX. A  PROPOSAL ....................... 42 X. PERPLEXITY ........... .. .......  61 XI. SUNSIIiNEBREAK1ING .......... ...... 57 XII. TIIE CIRISTMiAS PARTI r BETROTHAL ...... 63 XIII. CONSU:MM3ATION ................ 69 XIV. CONCLUSION ............... ..... " THE SPIRIT OF THE FOUNTAIN ............... 75 ERNEST'S CHOICE; OR, THE FIRESIDE FAIRY ...... 81 IDA LESLIE .....      ........................ 89 THE MOTHER'S DREA .. .... ................ 1 'THE  CRUCIBLE ........ .............. ... 114 FLORENCE LAMBBERT ...................... 121 (5)    "NWOOD; ORB THE CHRISTMAS GIFT. CHAPTER   I. THE REQ UEST. Then the night shall be filled with music, And the cares that infest the day Shall fold up their tents like the Arabs, And silently steal away. Longfellow. "PAPA! papa!" and a boy of eight years climbed upon Mr. Wellemont's knee, and twined his arms around his neck. Between the two you trace a strong resemblance. The same broad, open brow, shaded by luxuriant masses of black, wavy hair, -the full, dark eyes, expressive of truth, courage, energy, a gleam of roguery withal,--the firm and finely cut mouth; there is little need of those eager tones to tell you the relationship. The room is of medium size, the furniture not ex- pensive, but convenient and tastefully arranged. The heavy curtains of crimson worsted damask are closely drawn.  The fire seems to have a sort of half- (7)   8         LINWOOD. consciousness - blazing, roaring, crackling, spar- kling, in the grate, as if it liked its work of keeping people warm. Now and then it mischievously snaps the fur of a little Maltese kitten, curled up cosily on the rug, and to Frank's great glee, she resents the  liberty by very spirited starting and spitting. On one side of the room stands an open piano; and in the centre, before the fire, the tea-table. Mrs. Wellemont is attending to its arrangement. She is of medium height, slight and graceful in form, with mild blue eyes, hair of sunny brown, and lips around which a smile seems ever lingering. "Well, little snap-dragon, what now? Something special, no doubt! Has Charlie thrown you over his head to-day, or has Kitty Clover performed some new feat?" "No, papa," replied offended dignity, in a very grave tone, "I don't fall off my horse nozo; and it isn't about Kitty either - she plays every day - but Christmas is coming in one week!" The last words were almost shouted; and the boy clapped his hands as he asked, - "Ain't you glad, papa?" "'Glad? Yes, I'm in duty bound, I suppose, to be glad of a call to lighten my purse. Well, what must you have this year?  Charhe was new last Christmas, was he not? The old fellow is not past work yet, is he?" "No, papa; I want something better than a horse."   THE REQUEST.         9  "Better! heigh-ho! I thought Charlie held the next place to papa and mamma in a certain young gentleman's mind.  But what does his highness, Prince of the Play-room, require? Let's know, for I begin to feel nervous." "Papa, " whispered the boy, curling closer to his father, and looking earnestly in his face, "I want a little sister to play with me." Mr.. and Mrs. Wellemont looked surprised, but, as tea was ready, took their places at the table, the former merely saying, "We will think about it, Frank!" The boy seemed satisfied with this; for he knew I  the unfailing readiness of his parents to grant every reasonable indulgence, and that when they refused a   request, it could not be obtained by teasing. When Mrs. Wellemont came down stairs, after X putting Frank tcr bed, her husband passed his arm around her, drawing her upon his knee, and asked,- "What think you of Frank's proposition, Anne? Not a bad one, is it?" "Are you in earnest, dear?  'Will you really adopt a little girl? O! I should like it of all things." And the impulsive little woman clapped her hands with ardor equal to Frank's. "Certainly, darling, if you desire it, and feel able to bear the increased care!. tave you ever thought of it before?" "Yes, sometimes, but waited for you to suggest it."   10           LINWOOD. CHA PTER II. DR. ARLINGTON. It was not vain, the hallowed and the tried, It was riot vain! Still, though unseen, still hovering at thy side, I watch again. From our own paths, our love's attesting bowers, I am not gone; In the deep calm of midnight's whispering hours, Thou art not lone. My home is near thee, loved one, and around thee, Where'er thou art; Though still mortality's thick cloud hath bound thee, Doubt not thy heart. Hear its low voice, nor deem thyself forsaken! Let faith be given  To the low tones which oft our being waken- They are of heaven! Mrs. Hemans. "AH! good evening, doctor!     Right glad to see, you.  Take this arm-chair.    You'll find a warm corner comfortable this cold night, I fancy." "Thank you. It is indeed very cold for the sea- son. Good evening, Mrs. Wellemont," rising to meet the lady, who has just entered with a pleasant greet- ing. "We have been wondering where you were this fortnight, doctor, but supposed you were very busy." Yes, I have been.    One of my patients particu- larly engages my sympathy.     She is an  excellent woman, and has been sorely tried. Her husband   DR. ARLINGTON.        " was a sea-captain. Two years ago his vessel was lost, and she has since received no tidings of him. She has one child, a little girl of five years; and now that she is evidently very near the grave, she has no means of providing for her. I would myself gladly adopt the orphan, but she needs what I cannot fur-. nish - a mother's care. I thought it would be well to look around among my families; there may be some one willing to receive her; and I commence here." "Would you have thought it, doctor? Only last evening, our Frank was asking for a little sister as a Christmas gift, and we decided to gratify him," said Anne Wellemont, eagerly. "Indeed! Then will you ride over with me to- morrow morning, and see the child? I am sure you will be pleased with her." "Yes, with pleasure, thank you!" "And if you can spare the time, Louis, I have room for you. Or, if you wish, I will call for you to-morrow evening." "Thank you! thank you!"My business is rather pressing at this time. We have not yet finished tak- ing account of stock. What suits Anne will suit me; and if you and she will perform my duties in that line, I will be much obliged," said Louis, laughing. Very well: I'll call at nine o'clock." "Doctor," said Mrs. Wellemont, as, a couple of hours after, he rose to leave, "I would like to pre- pare some delicacy for Mrs. Leslie. What shall it be? - jelly, blanc-mange?"   12         LINIVOOD. Anything of the kind would be harmless, and no doubt very acceptable. Good night." Ernest Arlington was about thirty-five, tall, erect, slender, with a wealth of brown hair, blue eyes so clear and expressive that they usually forestalled his lips in their office, finely-moulded features, and a voice rich in its deep-toned bass, but gentle as a woman's. His patients welcomed his presence as not the least of his services. He treated them with the utmost gentleness and forbearance. He left them encour- aged, hopeful, more patient; or, when hope for this life was over, calm, sustained, soothed, if in their hearts were any chord of religious experience that might vibrate to his touch. Acutely sensitive, endowed with a vigorous mind, talents of no common order, and a glowing imagina- tion, refined, manly, generous, governing his daily life by the Golden Rule, he was a trusted and valued friend, as well as a beloved physician. He was not wealthy; but his profession amply sufficed to afford him a competence. People often remarked, "What a pity Dr. Arlington is not mar- ried!" And many were the wonderings and sur- mises as to the reason. Only a few intimate friends, among them Louis and Anne Wellemont, knew the secret of his soul. Very seldom; even with them, did he allude to it;   DR. ARLINGTON.       13 but he would sometimes ask Anne to sing to him "Mary of Argyle," and his blue eyes would grow misty, and he would forget to thank her when she' had finished. Only one hand had ever touched the key-note of his spirit. He had loved with a depth of passionate devotion that none but such natures know; and his love was fully reciprocated. It was still unchanged; but the seal of Eternity was on its plighted troth, and the only form that ever had rested on his bosom lay beneath a grassy covering. The rose and violet mingled their fragrance above it; the white lily seemed to him a type of her blessed innocence; the myrtle whispered to his heart of hope; and the tiny blue forget-me-not ne needed no interpreter. No marble lay cold and heavy on the heart that had throbbed near his own: only a scroll bore the name --Mary. And a hedge of arbor-vitae encircled the spot that to him was hallowed ground. When worn by the cares, perplexities, and toils of his profession, lonely and sorrowful, hither would he come, and his spirit would grow tranquil and strong. Not simply a remembrance of the past was he thus cherishing. le was well assured that all Mary had been to him she would be still; that their spirits were even more closely united than while she moved in earthly form. In active life, doing all the good that lay in his path, and in the glorious hope of a perfect oneness with his beloved hereafter, he was clicered and sustained.   "        LINWOOD. Such souls there are in this world-- "few and far between," no doubt- but like angels' visits in their silent, blessing-fraught influence. A holy ministry is theirs - a priesthood unto Him who was " a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief"-and only to Him are its vast results and far-reachings known. Through the Baptism of Suffering they come up purer and stronger: and who shall say that they who suffer thus deeply cannot, more truly than others, realize the love that was mighty to suffer unto the utmost- strong to endure the cross, -that into their hearts that love may not more fully enter, pervading their life with deeper consecration?   THE VISIiT.         15 CHAPTER   III. THE VISIT. Sweet promptings unto kindest deeds Were in her very look; We read her face, as one who reads A pure and holy book;- ' The measure of a blessed hymn To which our hearts could move, The breathing of an inward psalm - A canticle of love. J. G. Whittier. "GOOD morning, Mrs. Wellemont     A beautiful day, is it not? Clear, bracing air! Glorious sunshine I Fine sleighing! Are you wrapped up sufficiently?" Receiving an affirmative reply, the doctor, evident- ly in one of his most cheery moods, put Mrs. Welle- mont into the sleigh, placed a hot soapstone beneath her feet, tucked the buffalo robe closely around her, and they rode swiftly away. Anne had been astir at daybreak, and carried, carefully balanced in her lap, a small covered basket. Mrs. Wellemont found Mrs. Leslie a woman of education and refinement; and the half hour of her visit passed very pleasantly to all. The child was one likely to please, even if Mrs. Wellemont had been less predisposed in her favor, and she was easily won by Anne's gentleness.   In- deed, the two seemed drawn toward each other by a kind of electric affinity.   1 6        LlNWOOD. Gently Dr. Arlington told the mother of Anne's desire, and assured her of his entire confidence that Mr. and Mrs. Wellemont would be truly father and mother to little Grace, and nurture her for heaven. Mrs. Leslie's joy and gratitude may perhaps be im- agined. During the homeward ride, Anne said little, but her thoughts were very busy. That evening, when she recounted to her husband all that had passed, he repeated reverently, - "The thing proceedeth from the Lord; we cannot speak unto Him!" "I found Mrs. Leslie sitting up," said Anne; "and it occurred to me that some mild day she might be removed without injury; perhaps a ride would be beneficial, and she would enjoy it. Suppose we re- ceive her here. We could add to her comfort, and little Grace would become wonted while with her mother. We could not, of course; separate them the little while that remains of Mrs. Leslie's stay on earth." "Certainly not. It is a kind thought, Anne- worthy of my wife! If you are equal to the exer- tion that will necessarily devolve upon you, I am more than willing. You have not yet asked Dr. Arlington whether a removal would be safe?" ' "No, dear: I thought it best to consult you first." "Like you again, darling!" and Louis drew his wife to his breast, and kissed her fondly. "I will call at Dr. Arlington's, and get his opinion. He is prob-   THE VISIT.        17 ably in by this time." And without delay Mr. WTellemont donned his coat and mittens. Ah! in this world there is much oP sorrow and pain, much of strife and bitterness, among those who- ought to be brethren and sisters. But some there are who carry with them, wherever they go, the light and warmth of a loving, trusting, hopeful spirit. Of these are Louis and Anne Wellemont, and their friend, Ernest Arlington. 2   8          LINWOOD. CHtAPTER    IV. A NEW HOME. There's no dearth of kindness In this world of ours; Only, in our blindness, We gather thorns for flowers! O, cherish God's best giving, Falling from above! Life were not worth living Were it not for love. Gerald Massey. THE day before Christmas was mild and sunny; and at noon a covered sleigh stopped at Mr. Welle- mont's door, which was instantly opened, and Anne took from her husband's arms the little girl, warmly clothed and gleeful from her ride. Frank met her with an eager, boyish weleome, while Mr. Wellemont lifted Mrs. Leslie from the sleigh, and carried her in his strong arms into a warm, pleasant room on the first floor, which Anne had relinquished for the in- valid's chamber, and arranged with the utmost thoughtfulness for her comfort. Grace was at first a little shy of Frank; but he was very gentle and kind to her, showed her all his books and playthings, and gradually overcame her timidity. Sitting beside her, his arms around her waist, he told her how much he had longed for a sister, and that she was his Christmas Gift! Grace was pleased with this, and willingly returned his embrace and kiss.   That evening the children's hearts were gladdened by a beautiful Christmas tree. Frank was in high glee; and little Grace, to whom such things were entirely new, thought she had never seen anything so pretty. When she found that many of the presents were marked with her name, and intended for her "to keep always," as she said, she was nearly wild with delight. "But you are the best gift, darling sister," said Frank, putting his arm around her when they were going up stairs, having been allowed to sit up an hour later than usual. "I will keep you always." Was a prophecy contained in these simple words? Ah   the sphere of child-life lies very near heaven; and its music tones may ofttimes be fraught with deeper meaning, more of truth, than we incline to think. And if a prophecy, was it for this life, or one beyond? They know not; but their hearts are un- clouded by doubt or fear - either of one another's faith, or of life's changes.  They are happy in their innocent affection, hope, and trust.  Seek not to raise the veil that in mercy hides from them the world's falsehood and injustice, the pain and care that discipline souls for heaven;-soon enough comes such knowledge! Learn of them, rather; for of such is the kingdom."  20           LINWOOD. CHAPTER V. THE DEPARTURE. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, syo have done it unto mo! ' What matters it? A few years more, Life's surge, so restless heretofore, Shall break upon the unknown shore! In that far land shall disappear The shadows which we follow here, The mist-wreaths of our atmosphere. Before no work of mortal hand, Of human will or strength, expand The pearl gates of the better land. Alone in that great love which gave Life to the sleeper of the grave Resteth the power to seek and save! J. G. Whittier. As Dr. Arlington had anticipated, the relief to Mrs. Leslie's mind, afforded by the timely provision for her child, the unwearying kindness and careful nursing she received in the home of Grace's adoption, with the change of air and scene, proved of so much benefit that she rallied, and passed the winter months quite comfortably.   In March she was again wholly confined to her room, and it soon became evident that she was rapidly wearing away. One beautiful Sabbath evening in May, Frank and Grace had been rambling with Mr. Wellemont in the pastures' and woods near their home, while Anne   THE DEPARTURE.        21 remained with Mrs. Leslie. The rich glow of sunset bathed field and wood, hill and river, in golden light, when the children, with hushed voices and quiet foot- steps, entered the chamber, their hands filled with wood-violets. Mrs. Leshe was reclining upon a couch, near an open window, her hand clasped in that of her friend, silently enjoying the beauty of the landscape. Mamma, mamma, see what we've brought you!" Grace said, in tones of suppressed eagerness. Her mother took the flowers, and replied,  "Thank you, darling; and you, dear Frank! I love violets very much." "Won't they make you well, mamma? They are so beautiful and sweet!" and her clear, blue eyes were lifted to her mother's face with a pathetic earnestness that touched her deeply. Tenderly parting the golden curls, she kissed the child's fair brow, and said, - "Daughter, can you love mamma well enough to let her go home willingly? Mamma cannot stay for violets - not even for her own little Grace, though she is her sweetest flower. Our Saviour calls me, darling! Do you not love Him well enough to give mamma to Him? He would not take me now, if it were not best. Will you let mamma go to papa? We will be ever with you, Gracie, if you will not let the evil spirits stay near you and make you sin. And by and by you will come to us, and we will all live together in the beautiful spirit-land that I   22        LINWOOD. have often told you about - our real Home, where are no partings." Gracie's tears fell fast; but she had been told that her mother must -not be agitated, and she wept quietly, with her face hidden in that loving breast, controlling herself by all the strength of her child- being. The twilight gathered slowly, the evening star shone clear and beautiful in the azure sky, and the soft glory of moonlight rested on the little group. Dr. Arlington had stopped to make his evening call, and, as was his frequent custom, remained to join in the worship of the family. Mr. Wellemont always inquired of Mrs. Leslie what portion of the Holy Word she would be most glad to have read, and this evening she mentioned the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew. As the book was closed, she said, pressing the hand of Anne, who sat beside her, and looking grate- fully into the faces of Mr. Wellemont and the doctor,- I can offer you no return, my friends, for all your generous kindness to me, and, more than that, to my orphan child. But you surely have that blessing-- worth more than the wealth of worlds."  "Dear Mary," said Anne, " if we have shown you kindness, we have received abundant pleasure in it. Our intercourse with you has blessed, and will bless us always, in its holy influence. And for the gift of your darling Grace we cannot be too grateful."   THE DEPARTURE.        23 tI will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help." Clear and sweet, in its solemn melody, the chait swelled on the evening breeze; and every wave of troubled feeling subsided in the breast of Mary Leslie. Then, as they bowed, and full hearts found their needed expression in those holy words given us by One that "in all our affliction was afflicted," her spirit soared triumphantly to rest her child in the bosom of Almighty Lovel  Long and lingering was the mother's embrace, when Grace said her usual "Good night, mamma!" Many times she kissed her, and, bowing her face amid the clustering curls, said fervently, "The Lord bless thee, and keep thee I The Lord cause His face to shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee! The Lord lift up His countenance upon thee, and give thee peace." In the morning Mrs. Wellemont, in her gentlest tones, told Grace that the angels had come and taken her mother home. And as she folded the child to her heart, and tenderly soothed her grief, from the depths of her spirit went up a fervent though silent prayer for wisdom and strength to fulfil truly a mother's duty, and, as far as possible, fill a mother's place to the little one.   24          LINWOOD. CHAPTER VI. ARRIVALS. A babe in the house is a well-spring of pleasure, a link between angels and men. M. F. Tupper. And when the morn, with frolic zest, Looked through the curtains of the night, There was a dearer dawn of light, A tenderer life the mother's pressed! Gerald Massey. GOSSIPING as to " the strange freak of the Welle- mont's" was of course abundant.   But we will not fill our pages with its record. It ever writes itself upon the souls of those who indulge in it, and shall be read there when "the books are opened"- the books of internal life. Let us pass it quietly by, as did our friends, steadily pursuing the path of duty, use, and love, open before them, with a peace in their hearts far too deep to be disturbed by ripples on the current of outward life. Three years had fled when an event anticipated with mingling hope and dread occurred.   Two little ones had gone home previous to the adoption of Grace; and Anne's health was for some time deli-, cate, owing to the double draught of pain and grief upon her constitution. The care of the orphan, and her return of earnest affection, were as leaves of heal- ing to the mother's heart. This her husband and Dr.   ARRIVALS.         25 Arlington understood. Emily Merton, also, Mrs. Wellemont's younger sister, who came to stay with her during her approaching trial, fully appreciated it, and rejoiced in Anne's labor of love, not only on ac- count of the child, but of Mrs. iWellemont herself. Dr. Arlington, as ever, proved the careful, skilful physician, the devoted friend. After a protracted period of severe peril and pain, he laid in her arms a beautiful little girl, and assured the anxious husband that all immediate danger was over. The children were, as might be supposed, highly pleased. Gracie's delight was unbounded.  When the important question of a name was discussed, she entreated to have it Anne.  Mr. Wellemont and Frank were of the same mind. Emily, too, advised it; and the mother made no objection to giving the babe her name, but suggested the addition of one slhe particularly liked. Very beautiful was the following Sabbath; and amid the spring-time sunshine and breath of flowers, waving foliage and bird-song, the little one was borne in her father's arms to the baptismal font, and re- ceived the name of Anne Josephine. Frank loved his little sister truly; but a boy's in- terest in mere babyhood could not be expected to equal Gracie's. Indeed, hers was of no ordinary kind. As weeks and months elapsed, it seemed to deepen and strengthen, rather than diminish.  She was never happier than when permitted to watch Josey's slumbers while her mother was engaged, or    26         LINWOOD. wait upon her as she washed, dressed, and tended he tiny charge. Till the time- of Josey's birth, Mrs. Wellemor had instructed the children herself. A year or tw previous she commenced teaching Gracie to sew This was the chief trial of the little girl's every-da life. She never refused to do the portion allotted her but she brought no smiles to the task. The storic with which her mother tried to beguile the hal hour that always seemed to Gracie interminable,- even the promise of a new wax doll as soon as sh could dress it herself, failed to encourage her, or lesse: her dislike of the employment. But as her fondness for the babe developed, a nev motive was suggested. "Grace," said aunt Emily, pleasantly, one morn ing, "do you think you could make an apron fo Josey?" "O, yes, auntie, I think I could!" the child an swered eagerly. "Please let me try." Emily, pleased with this reception of her proposal gave into Gracie's hands the tiny white apron, wit] its pretty binding of blue linen. The little girl worker perseveringly and contentedly through the allottec time, and was surprised when she found it spent. "Shall I sew any more, aunt Emily?" she asked. "No, dear," was replied. "You had better not You have done very well. I will put away the wor] for you, and you shall have it every day till you car finish it."   -.          ARRIVALS.         27 Three days more the apron was in progress; and ; then Grace had the pleasure of surprising her mother I with her present, well and neatly made, of putting it - on the baby herself, and seeing her wear it. "You have wrought a wonder, Emily," said Anne, r after the- children were in bed. ;.  "I am glad my suggestion was successful," Emily :: replied; " but I shall be disappointed if its effect goes : no farther than the making of one apron." :Y "It will: that's the very  thing," said Anne. ;t "Once supplied with a motive for exertion and self- -) conquest, one drawn from her affections, she will - bring her native energy to the task, and I hope not - only this one. She will, in time, like to sew, as she : becomes accustomed to it and efficient." :: "Yes, Anne, I think   you are right," said Mr. 7 I Wellemont, encouragingly. "Of course I don't pre- -: tend to understand matters in the line of ladies' em- -- ployments, particularly, but I can appreciate what ^ you say in relation to supplying our affectionate little -i girl with a motive drawn from love. The delight of :! use to others, I know, she has already begun to feel X as the most powerful stimulus." ?; Emily's eyes twinkled, as she said, mischievously, H "No doubt that is all perfectly true, Louis. But did H you ever think Anne was not right?" Jj Anne looked in her husband's face and   smiled:  an affectionate, grateful smile it was, and went to his ! heart like a  gleam  of sunshine. He returned her glance, and said playfully to Emily, -   28         LI. WOOD. "Well, well, sister ours, I only hope Charley Preston will be as appreciative of your thoughts, words, and deeds, as I am of my wife's." Emily's color heightened for a moment; but though she attempted to turn the conversation, her brother's eyes gleamed with roguery, and he might have teased her rather severely, but for the entrance of friends. The two months of Emily's visit passed rapidly away, and she left with a promise of returning to spend the winter. The following spring was antici- pated as the time of her marriage. Accordingly the first of November brought her sunny face and ani- mated tones again within the domestic circle. Grace had improved very much in sewing, and even partially overcome her dislike of it. Many little articles for Josey's wear had been prepared by her fingers. Frequent consultations were held privately with aunt Emily as Christmas approached. The results of such conferences were apparent when the much- desired time came. A fine linen handkerchief, which Grace had been permitted to buy, was neatly hemmed for her father. Her mother received a really pretty needle-book, quite creditable to a little girl of eight years. For Frank, the word Love was wrought in blue silk on perforated paper, with a simple cross- stitch border, and nicely fastened on blue ribbon. Aunt Emily was in her turn surprised with a service-   ,. ARRIVALS.         29 able and pretty toilet-cushion, which irs. Wellemont : had taught Grace to make. : True, these things cost tie child real labor and self- conquest; but this tended far more to promote her welfare and usefulness in after life, and even present enjoyment, than golden coin, had her adopted parents been able to bestow it. Her little gifts were far more valuable to her friends, as the fruit of self-sacrificing affection on her part-- a promise for her woman- hood- a token that she was already taking to her heart the lesson of love and kindness Mr. and Mrs. Wellemont strove unweariedly to teach their chil- dren. Grace was evidently very happy in presenting her -: offerings, and in the manifest pleasure with which they were accepted- at least as happy as in the recep- tion of the liberal gifts bestowed upon herself. Frank's present was a very beautiful monthly rose (that which blossoms every month). He had bought it when out with his father, more than a week preTvious, and kept it with wonderful secrecy. Grace, : with her passionate love of flowers, was delighted beyond measure. Y : But we must hasten over the remainder of their /: ch]ildhood. In May Emily was married.    The following autumn, as the schools in their own town were not : of such a grade as they desired for Frank, Mr. and ]! M3rs. Wellemont concluded to send him to Philadel- A.   30        LINWOOD. phia, where Mrs. Preston resided. The opportunity of placing him in his aunt's household and care they highly valued, as they were unwilling to send him to a boarding-school. They knew Emily's husband well, and esteemed him equally worthy of con- fidence. Frank would be guarded from evil influ- ences, and made happy,   SICKNESS.         31 GH APTER   VII. SICKNESS. Hers was the power to quell and charm, The ready wit that children love. The faithful breast, the shielding arm, Pillowed in sleep my tenderest dove. Passion Flowers. A STILLNESS like that of night broods over Lin- wood. A shadow rests on every heart. The lamb of the fold, the little Josey, over whose golden hair the sunshine of only nine happy summers has flitted, lies tossing in the restlessness of fever. Dr. Arlington is there, with few words and anxious brow, doing all that skill and fidelity can do. Anne and Grace forbear to question, but force back the tears, as they gaze earnestly in his grave face, seeking i some gleam of encouragement, and read but too well its silent answer. "Let me sit up with Josey to-night, mother dear," entreated Grace, as the weary day drew to a close. "Can you not trust me?" "Yes, dear, I could trust you fully," Anne replied; "but I cannot let you lose your night's rest." "Why should I not?   I am well and strong, and - can do it easily. You are worn out, and father is nearly sick." '.  This was true. Mr. and Mrs. Wellemont had A watched with Josey alternately the two  previous ; nights.   32         LINIWOOD. Indeed, Anne had scarcely left her since the com- mencement of her illness. Mr. Wellemont had taken a severe cold, and the labor and care incident to his business, added to the effect of his night's wakeful- ness and anxiety, had nearly overcome his physical system. Anne yielded to Gracie's solicitations, after obtain- ing a promise that she would call her, should Josey become worse. The little one, rocked in her sister's arms, and soothed by the low, sweet melodies she loved best, soon went to sleep; and Anne sat beside her, while Grace arranged everything for the night, and attended to her father's comfort. She prepared some simple remedies, wrapped up a jug of hot water for his feet, and gently rubbed his forehead and temples for ten or fifteen minutes - an attention always peculiarly grateful to him, and one to which his headache. seldom failed to yield, at least in part. He drew   her down and kissed her, saying, fervently, - ' The Lord bless thee, daughter!" And with noiseless footstep she glided to Josey's room. "Now, mother," she said in a low tone, " please go to bed immediately, and get all the rest you can. You need it, I am sure." "Good night, darling," said Anne, folding her to her bosom, and kissing her repeatedly. "You don't know what a comfort you are to us all."   SICKNESS.          33 She passed into the adjoining chamber with a silent uplifting of her heart in thankfulness and blessing. All night Grace tenderly nursed her little sister,- -giving her medicine, turning her pillow when it grew hot, holding her on her bosom when she was very restless, bathing the aching head, and doing all that thoughtful love could do to alleviate her pain. Not only one night did Grace assume the respon- sibility of watcher. Faithful in every particular, self- forgetful, gentle, and thoughtful, she continued to nurse the little patient throughout her sickness. The crisis came and passed. The hope of Josey's recovery gave place to a glad certainty. She was convalescent. Still the affectionate care of "sister Grace" was unremitted. Day after day she sat by her side, or held her in her lap, attending to all her wants, and amusing her with the patience and gentle- ness of untiring love. "I cannot go, Marion. I thank you for your in- vitation, and, but for Josey's sickness, would accept it with much pleasure." "But, Grace, Josey is getting well fast. I under- stood you just now that Dr. Arlington had ceased his professional visits. I should think you might." "I ought not to leave mother, dear Marion, worn out as she is, and in delicate health at best. Josey needs more or less attention all the time as yet, and, 3   34         LINWOOD. is liable at any moment to a relapse. The doctor says great care is essential to her full recovery." Marion Ellershe was an intimate friend of Grace, and strongly desired her presence at her birthday party. She was, however, in the effort to govern her life by good and true principles. She sat silently thoughtful a few minutes, and though self-love strug- gled for the mastery, she conquered it, and said, cheerfully, - "You are right, dear Grace! I will no longer try to change your resolution. I would defer my party, had not some of the invitations 1been already given." "O, I would not have you do that, Marion," said Grace, eagerly. I'll spend a day with you, instead, when Josey gets quite well."   WILFRED STANHOPE.         35 CHAPTER VIII. WILFRED STANHOPE. And if any poet knew her, He would sing of her in falls Used in lovely madrigals. And if any painter drew her, He would paint her, unaware, With a glory round her hair. Mrs. Browning. AND the genial sunshine, pleasant breezes, and opening blossoms of advancing spring, Josey rapidly gained health and strength.  Dr. Arlington advised keeping her in the open air as much as possible, hoping thus to overcome the constitutional delicacy she inherited. The child delighted to rove about, with Grace, in the woods and fields, searching for wild flowers.  The violets were Gracie's especial favorites, not only on account of their beauty and fragrance, but because they were linked with the tenderest and holiest associations of her childhood- with the thought of her mother. She loved to think of her as wearing fadeless flowers.  Indelible was the impression made upon her mind by that last evening of her mother's earthly stay, when she wel- comed the -woodland offering as emblematic of a resurrection into a better life. Far-reaching was her holy influence in its still power.   Through  all Gracie's child-life, and in this time of dawning wo- ;                      :   36         LINWOOD. manhood, she felt it as a gentle restraining from evil, an encouragement to a striving after good. Earnest, deep, and true had ever been her love for her adopted mother; and the two affections, far from conflicting, blended, like different musical tones, into 'one chord of melody. The scenes and influences which had surrounded her ever since her birth had been such as were best suited to awaken and develop a love of nature; and year after year steadily increased its intensity and fervor. Very beautiful was Linwood in its quiet loveliness. The house, not large or costly, but comfortable, con- venient, and tasteful, stood on a gentle rise of ground, fronting southward. Between it and the carriage-road lay a grassy, daisy-sprinkled lawn; and magnificent linden trees threw their shadows around it, making a cool spot in the most oppressive weather. On the western side, a deep, blue river wound gracefully between its undulating banks, now seen, now hidden, losing itself miles away, amidst a semicircle of hills. On the east, beyond the flower garden, lay grain fields and pasturage, the demure- looking cows with their frolicsome little ones forminog a pleasant addition to the picture. To the north, behind the house, rose the majestic old woods, fitly called, in their deep quietude and upward pointing, a Forest Sanctuary! A painter need not have sought better material for his pencil than that presented by the sisters and their   WILFRED STANHOPE.       37 surroundings, a pleasant morning early in July, where our story has now reached. Grace was truly gifted with rare personal beauty, and its effect was height- ened by the wild flowers which Josey had entwined among her curls. Her gypsy hat was thrown over her arm, and the wicker basket in her hand was filled with flowers. The fairness of her complexion was shown to advantage by her blue muslin dress, with its snowy linen collar, fastened at the throat by a clus- ter of turquoises in a plain gold setting, one of Anne's Christmas gifts. She wore but one other ornament, a garnet ring which had been Mrs. Leslie's. Anne Josephine closely resembled her mother; the same golden-brown curls, the clear, blue eyes, full of kindliness and animation, the slight form and grace- ful movements, all betokened her relation. She was simply attired in a light muslin, a white apron, and brown straw hat. As the girls approached the house, a pair of strong arms clasped them in one embrace, and Grace turned quickly to meet Frank's roguish eyes. Surprise and pleasure held her dumb a moment or two, till Frank, with an air of mock affront, released her, saying, - "So ho! Miss Grace, not a word! A warm re- ception, to be sure! Well, Miss Josey, can you give brother. a kiss?" And he tossed up the little girl as if she had been a baby.  "How did you get here so soon?" asked Grace, when she found her voice. "We expected you in the afternoon train."   38         LIArWOOD. "Yes, so I supposed. My trunk was packed in a hurry, I assure you, to give you a surprise. I found that I could come by this morning's boat, and did so. But I must introduce you to my chuml, now that you have concluded to speak to me." "Stanhope," turning to a young gentleman who hlad accompanied him, " these are my sisters. And, Grace, this is Wilfred Stanhope, my friend. You know I wrote you that I hoped he would come home with me. Grace welcomed their visitor with her usual quiet cordiality, and led the way to the parlor, while Frank went to his mother's room. "W\hat have you planned for the afternoon, Frank?" asked Mr. Wellemont at dinner. "Wrc have not made any arrangement as yet, father," was replied. "What do you think?" "It is a beautiful day - not too warm for a drive ; and I presume Mr. Stanhope would like to see the place. Suppose you harness Floy, and take the "Well, sir, that suits me, provided the rest like it. What say you, Stanhope?" "I should like nothin g better." "Will you go, Grace?  "Yes, with pleasure," she answered. "And we. might go around by AMarion's first, an&d invite her. There will be plenty of room, for Josey and I count one, you know." "Agreed! I should like to see Marion. Is she as pretty as ever?"   WTILFRED STANHOPE.       39 "QuitC as pretty, and as good." "I shall sit front with you, shan't I, Frankl?" said Josey, coaxingly, slipping her little hand into her brother's, under the table. "Yes, dear." "And you will let me drive, won't you? pursued the little girl. I'm mistaken if you don't, some of these days," Frank rejoined, laughing. "Yes, Josey, certainly." As soon as the discussion of Grace's custards was complleted, Frank went to get the horse. Floy rubbed her nose against him, laid her head on his shoulder, and whinnied, fully manifesting', in her dumb way, her pleasure at his return. This grecting ]Frank de- scribed at length to Grace, as they rode down the street, telling her that it quite consoled him for her cool reception. "Frank, you are too bad!" interposed Wilfred. "I shall have to defend Miss Grace." 'I'm goingc to run away," was her laughing re- joinder, as the carriage stopped before a large, old- fiashioned house, shaded by majestic elms; and, springing out, she ran up the gravel walk, and met her friend at the door. In less than five minutes she returned with Marion. The day was one of the loveliest in the season, the roads excellent; Floy was full of spirit, but perfectly gentle; and health, cheerfulness, and gvood will con- spired to make the long ride one of great enjoyment to all the party.   40         LINWOOD. Anne's inviting tea-table was ready when they reached Linwood, fully prepared to do justice to thee fare. After tea, they gathered around the piano. They all possessed good voices and cultivated musical taste. The evening passed rapidly away. "Frank," said Mr. Wellemont at breakfast, "you will call soon to see Dr. Arlington, I hope.;' "Yes; sir; I am going to show Wilfred the way over to his office this evening. He will be out on his round this morning, you know."' "Dr. Arlington was a classmate and friend of my father, sir," said Stanhope. "I lanticipate makingr his acquaintance with much pleasure."' "Indeed! I suppose Frank has already told you he expects to study medicine with him. " "Yes, sir; we have talked over our plans a good deal. Medicine is my own choice; and if agreeable to the doctor, my father would be glad to' have me pursue my studies with him. It would be very pleas- ant to have Frank's companionship." "And yours equally so to him, no doubt. We think very highly here of Dr. Arlington. He is a worthy man, a successful physician, and one of our most valued friends." "You ought to improve this lovely morning, Frank, ," said Mrs. Wellemont, as they rose from the table. "What are you going to do?" "A horseback ride is the programme, mother! It was so arranged last evening, before Marion left."   WILFRED STANHOPE.       41 A shadow flitted across Josey's brow; Grace ob- served it, and said cheerily,- "Never mind, darling! We'll have our ramble this afternoon.3 "Josey shall go to ride," said Frank. I'll take her on my horse. You won't be afraid, will you, Joe?" "But she has no riding-dress," said Mrs. Welle- mont. "O, I'll arrange that," rejoined Grace, quickly. "Her hat is well enough, and her black silk jacket, with my dark-blue skirt, will be as good as if made for the purpose." The little girl was delighted; and her first horse- back ride was followed by many, taken in the same way. The roses deepened in her cheeks; and her form, tiough retaining its delicate symmetry, grew into a full and rounded outline. X   "NWOOD. CHAPTERB IX. A PROPOSAL. Unless you can think, when the song is done, No other is soft th the rhythm ; Unless you can feel, when left by one, That all men beside go with him; Unless you can know, when unpraised by his breath, That your beauty itself wants proving; Unless you can vow, "For life, for death!"- O, fear to call it loving! Mrrs. Browning. PLEASANTLY glided away the weeks of Wilfred's visit.  Dr. Arlington cordially consented to receive him  as a student; and he left for his home, having arranged to board with the doctor on his return. Very pleasant was the "Ingleside," as the cottage was called; very inviting it looked as Stanhope again approached it. As it was in the neighborhood of Linwood, and Frank and Wilfred were so intimate, the latter very naturally found it oftener convenient to go home with his friend, than to take his walk in another direction.   The young men were faithful in their studies, but they entered heartily into their sports as well; and many were the horseback rides and woodland walks, the berryings and chestnuttings  enjoyed in company with Grace, Marion, and Jo- sephine. Marion Ellerslie was the youngest of eight children, and the only daughter at home, her sisters having  A PROPOSAL.        43 been some time married and settled in life. Ardent and impulsive, lively and social, in temperament she nearly resembled Frank.  While in Gracie's nature the poetic element predominated, Marion surpassed her in practical energy. They were about the same age, and had grown up together, their mutual affec- tion and confidence deepening and strengthening with every year; their different characteristics only blend- ing in exquisite harmony, exercising a reciprocal and genial influence. Their personal appearance presented a strong con- trast, but it would be difficult to say which was the more attractive. Marion was not very tall, but her form was erect and beautifully proportioned, her eyes "large, dark, and lustrous," the glowing crimson of her cheeks relieved by the glossy black hair, smoothly parted on her high, white brow, and coiled around her head in massive braids. Two years went quietly by, our friends at Linwood, Moss-rose Glen, and Ingleside actively engaged in performing their various duties, and heartily accept- ing all the enjoyment that came in their way; realiz- ing, as do all who live in the daily acknowledgment of the Lord and the exercise of mutual love, that the lines had fallen to them in pleasant places.' Meanwhile rumors began to be afloat concerning matrimonial prospects between Wilfred and Grace, Frank and Marion. Many and various were the com- ments and conjectures, though it was generally agreed that they were wonderfully well mated. As yet,   "        LINWOOD. however, none of the gossiping had reached to Lin- wood. With all Anne's gentleness and unvarying kindness, there was about her a womanly dignity that repelled anything of the sort. Not one of her friends or neighllbors would have ventured to repeat to her or to Grace such remarks, or to allude to family matters which she did not her- self mention. And no one would have thought of such a liberty with the high-spirited, Marion. One glance of her clear, penetrating, dark eyes never failed to silence any approach to undue familiarity. Dr. Arlington, indeed, on his rounds, when Stanhope did not accompany him, learned something of the subject; but he wisely held his peace, thinking the Wellemonts competent to manage their own affairs, and that he had nothing to do with the matter, at least till they should mention it to him. Marion's sister Florence, now Mrs. Shelburne, who resided in Philadelphia, had been accustomed, since her marriage, to spend most of the summer at her father's, her husband going to the city in the morning, and returning at night. This summer he was obliged, by failing health, to give up his business, and remain at Moss-rose Glen during the entire season. Dr. Arlington attended him daily, and with much anxiety; but Mr. Shelburne improved, and the doctor hoped that, as the weather became cool, he would gain strength. On account of this sickness. Marion and Grace were together much less than usual. Good nursing was indigenous to the Ellerslie   A PROPOSAL.         45    family. Marion's performance of this duty was as efficient as it was kind. And Mr. Shelburne loved to have her with him. She rode with him pleasant days, and when he was unable to go out, the weari- ness and languor of illness were many an hour beguiled by her cheering tones, as she read or talked to him in her own lively way. And Marion knew when to talk, and when to be silent -a qualification over- looked by some who are in other respects good nurses. Oftener than by any other title, Mr. Shel- burne addressed her as "Sunbeam "--a pet name given her in childhood by her father's fondness, and continued by the whole family from an appreciation of its fitness. It was a lovely evening in early autumn. Frank and Wilfred were to leave the next morning for Phila- delphia, to attend a course of medical lectures. Mr. and Mrs. Shelburne had returned home, Marion accompanying them, as she had been accustomed to do. Immediately after tea, Frank went to his roonm to finish his packing. Grace was with him, assisting in folding and handing the things, while he arranged his trunk, when Wilfred came upon the piazza below. "Run down, Gracie," said Frank; "I shall be through in half an hour." Grace went down, and met Stan- hope with her usual cordial greeting. "Will you walk with me, Grace?? he said. 'I have come for one more pleasant ramble before I go home." "Shall we wait for Frank?" she asked. "He   "        LINWOOD. has not quite finished packing, but will not be long." "Suppose we improve the time while he is busy, and let him come when he gets ready," suggested Wilfred. "Hulloa, Frank!" and as Frank came to the window, " we are going down by the river, and round through the woods home. Come along when you're ready, will you?" Frank assented, and returned to his employment. Stanhope drew Gracie's arm within his own, and after walking a little way in silence, he said, - "Gracie, I am sad to-night. It is hardly a com- pliment to ask you to walk with me in my present mood; but you will pardon me, for I am going away from many lovely scenes, pleasant associations, and very dear friends. This walk, beautiful as are all surrounding objects, and with you my companion, is yet shadowed by the thought that it is the last, cer- tainly for nearly a year - perhaps forever!" "Yes, I know," Grace replied. "And we shall all miss you sadly. But you must think of your friends at home, and that you will gain very much in relation to your life-work." , genuine sympathy, a real friendship, were in her tones, in her eyes, as she raised them, with the frankness of a child, to his face. Perhaps he mistook ' these for a, deeper feeling; for his voice and look were less saddened, as he answered, - "That is true."  He paused suddenly, for they had reached one of the loveliest portions of the wood.   A PROPOSAL.         47 "Let us sit down a little while, Grace, and at least listen to me."' The fallen leaves formed a rich mosaic beneath their feet; the birds were flying home to their nests, and now and then a drowsy chirp mingled with the hum of insects. At a little distance, and seen through the opening foliage, flowed the river,flashing, dash- ing, sparkling in the full glory of sunset. "That is true," he resumed, as they sat down upon the trunk of a fallen tree which lay beside the path.  "But, Gracie, Linwood is peculiarly en- deared to me; and it is so because lighted by your presence. I have father, mother, and sisters, kind and true as ever man was blessed with; and yet there is a love in my heart that will grow deeper and stronger than all my home affections, if you will permit it to be so." He would have drawn her to his side, but she turned quickly, and covered her face with her hands. "Nay, listen a moment," he said in a tone of en- treaty. "I have loved you very dearly, Gracie, for a long, long time; but this parting has awakened me to a consciousness of the nature of that love, and I could not go away in suspense. I would fain draw you to my heart, Gracie, and crown your life with all the blessing that devoted love can bring, as your little sister- crowned your brow  with flowers that morning when I saw you for the first time, - you who then realized my ideal of beauty, - who have since become my dream of love, and hope, and joy-- of all of-f -   48        LINWOOD. that is dear and true in life- mingled even with my hope for eternity." So impetuously and passionately had Wilfred spoken, that Grace had no time to reply. In those few moments, amid her bewilderment, like a lightning flash across the brow of midnight, a revelation had rushed over her soul. She loved -she knew it now-- with woman's one, absorbing love-- but not him whose true and noble heart had just been offered her. She loved WTilfred truly and earnestly, as a friend or sister might, love; the thought of a sepa- ration gave her pain; she was deeply grieved for his disappointment; but another rose before her spirit, and she knew that to him, unsoutght, -and her cheeks burned scarlet at the thought, - had been given her life's love! One possibility, too, for the first time, crossed her mind. She had never thought of Wilfred as a lover; she could not recollect that his manner towards her had ever differed from Frank's towaxrds Marion. Might not Frank have already enshrined Marion in his heart as the star of his life? Or, if not, whenever he should entertain the thought of a future home, would he not be least of all likely to turn to her, whom from childhood he had regarded as a sister? She wished she were that by birth-- that the wild desire for a nearer tie had never been' awakened in her soul! Then she might have loved Wilfred, and her life would have been blessed indeed - blessed as now it might never be. But she would not give him her hand, loving him only as she wished   A PROPOSAL.        49 she loved Franik. She must be true in her marriage vow, or that sacred promise must -never pass her lips. Wilfred would suffer for a time; but he would find one who would give him a wife's devoted affection, - to whom he would be the joy and crown- ing glory of life here and hereafter. As this tide of conflictingc thought and feeling swept over her, Grace could scarcely restrain a gush of tears. But self-control was habitual with her, and though very pale, and trembling iwith agitation, she answered quietly,- "Wilfred, I have no words to tell you my sorrow for your disappointment, for I believe every word you say; but I cannot be your wife. I love you, respect you, trust you, and always shall; but let me be your sister, and forget that you desired any other relation. You will find a love worthier of you than I shall ever be." Wilfred's brow was pale as that of Grace; he was silent a few moments, evidently struggling to control his feelings; and then said in low, imploring tones,-- "Grace, in pity tell me, must I utterly suppress my hope? Will you not try to love me? I will wait patiently--years if you require: we are young." "It may not be," she answered mournfilly. "As a friend you are very dear to me; but such love as you desire, as you are richly worthy to receive, is impossibility on my part: this hour, years hence, must be the same." 4   50         LINWOOD. She rose to go home; and silently, sadly, he acqui- esced in the movement. Wilfred," she said, "trust me as I trust you. I never suffered more than I do at this moment. But I cannot deceive you. I will not blight your life by giving you my hand when I cannot give my whole heart and soul." "I do believe you, Grace; you will ever be dear to me. My sister Grace!" he added, with evident effort. They wended their homeward way in silence till they met Frank. "Ah!" said he in his usual cheery tone, "did you think I was not coming? Fred Ellerslie came over with a note for you, Grace, enclosed in a letter to him from Marion. I came as soon as he left." The deepening twilight concealed the faces of Grace and Wilfred; and Frank chatted on, not noti- cing that he met but few replies. Good night," said Wilfred, when they reached the house. "Not to-night," he answered to Frank's invitation "I shall see your father and mother in the morning. I'll call for you. Good night."   PERPLEXITY.         51 CHAPTER   X. PERPLEXITY. One by one thy duties wait thee; Let thy whole strength go to each; Let no future dreams elate thee; Learn thou first what these can teach. Miss Procter. GRACE lighted her lamp immediately upon enter- ing the parlor, and took up Marion's letter. "Are you tired, dear?" asked Anne. "Rather," she replied. 'I think I won't come down  again this evening. Good night, Frank," putting her arms around his neck as usual, and giving him a kiss. He returned her embrace, and seemed about to utter an inquiry or an expression of surprise, but checked himself; and Grace turned quickly to her father and mother, received their good-night kiss, and went to her own room. "I am afraid Grace is not well," said Mr. Welle- mont to his wife. "She is very pale, and Ait is not like her to leave Frank so early when he is going away." "She has not complained," Anne replied. "She may be only over-wearied. I will go up stairs by and by, and see if she rests quietly." Meanwhile Grace had thrown herself upon the bed, and hiding her face in her pillows, she gave way   "NWOOD.        ,   to a long, wild fit of weeping. Grace seldom wept: only the deep currents of emotion unsealed the foun- tain of her tears. These had been, as long as possi- ble, suppressed by vigorous effort: they brought relief to her overburdened heart. An hour had passed, and Grace had grown calm from exhaustion, when a light hand was laid upon her, and Anne said very tenderly, ' Daughter !" Grace partly raised herself, clasped her mother in her arms, and drawing her down, hid her face in her bosom. For many minutes they sat thus, Anne gently stroking Gracie's hair; then she said, - "Daughter, you are troubled. Can you not con- fide in me ?" With her head still pillowed on that faithful breast, Grace recounted her conversation with Wilfred. She did not allude to Frank; and Anne only soothed her tenderly, telling her if she were sure that to love Stanhope were impossible, she did right in saying so kindly. She asked no questions as to the reason for this, for she was unwilling to press Gracie's confidence. For the first time in his life, Frank passed a wake- ful night.  Thought was as busy with him as with Grace. And could they have glanced one moment into each other's soul, their trouble, with the excep- tion of sympathy for Wilfred, would have been ended. Marion was not in Frank's mind, except as he recalled the incidents which, during Stanhope's stay at Ingle-   side, had brought the four together. For the first time the question whether any one would ever take Grace away from him - whether his love should not bind her to him in the holiest, tenderest tie -entered his mind. Her paleness and evident agitation, in connection with her walk and Wilfred's refusal to come in as usual, had excited his wonder, and deeply disturbed his feelings.  It was long past midnight when sleep visited his over-wearied frame; and he came down to breakfast looking pale and worn. His mother made no comment, for with womanly intuition she guessed nearly the true state of his mind; but his father said, - " Are you well, Frank?  If not, you ought not to go to-day." "Yes, father," he replied, "I am well, except a headache caused by not resting as well as usual. It will soon pass off." "Frank," said Mrs. Wellemont when breakfast was over,  will you come into my room?   I want you to change the rose-trellis a little; it will detain you but a few moments." After pointing out the alteration she desired, Anne said, - "Frank, were you aware that Wilfred loved Grace ?" Frank's start and instant paleness answered his mother's mental inquiry; and to relieve him as speed- ily as possible, she said, without awaiting his reply, - "Grace did not suspect it; but last evening he asked a return, which she told him was out of her power to bestow."    54         LINWOOD. ' A sudden light came into Frank's eyes, the quick blood niounted to his cheek and brow, and his hand trembled as he continued lhis Nwork. In a few mo- ments he recovered his composure, and said, -- "Poor Stanhope! I pity him. There he is now! He said he would bid you good by this morning." Frank folded his mother in his arms, kissed her lips, and eyes, and brow, with even more than his wonted tenderness, though he was, in the best mean- ing of the term, "a mother-boy;" and his tones slightly trembled as he said,-- "Sweet, darling, angel mother!" But though Frank's mind was 'thus relieved of its greatest burden, the questioning thought, once awa- kened, would not- be silenced. Would Caty one win Gracie's heart from his likeeping? Did she - would she - love him otherwise than with sisterly affection? He had too much delicacy to -allude to the subject when conversing with Stanhope; but his sympathy manifested itself in a more thoughtful kindness, a gentler mode of expression. Wilfred noticed and rightly construed it, and it was grateful to his feel- ings. Months went by, however, before he men- tioned Gracie's name. One evening the friends were alone in Frank's room at his aunt's, when Stanhope took up a small volume which lay on the dressing-table, and glancing over the paIges, his eye caught the name on the fly- leaf- Mary Leslie. The book was a rare and exquisite collection of   PERPLEXITY.        55 poems. Grace had placed it in Frank's trunk, think- ing, it mlight beguile some moments of homesickness, and exercise a protecting influence amid the tempta- tions of city life. Wilfreid uttered an exclamation of surprise; tlen, with a gleam of the old roguery in his eyes, the first Frank had seen since they left Linwood, he said, - "Ah! Frank, how long have you kept that a secret fro'1n me? .m  Frank, of course, took his meaning'; but he an- swered quietly, - "Grace lent me the book for my stay in Philadel- phia. That was her mother's name." "Her mother's name!" repeated Wilfred. "W'lhat do you mean, Frank?" Frank was, in his turn, much surprised. "Did you not know4," he asked, " that father and mother adopted Grace in her childhood?" "No; I never was more astonished. This is the first breathll I have hleard of it. I always supposed her your sister by birth." "Strange that I never told you," rejoined Frank. "And yet, not so very strange, either," he added, thoulghtfully. "I told you everything thlat trans- pired as we went along; but that was so far back, 1 suppose I never thought to tell you about it. And Grace had been so long as a sister to me, I scarcely thought of her otherwise." "Al! yes; that is clear enough. And I do not recollect having heard her family name. Our little   56         LINWOOD. circle had no occasion for titles, and others spoke of her as Grace Wellemont." "Yes, I know she is generally called so in our own neighborhood, and none of us care to have it other- wise. We would rather not be reminded, or recall to her, that in anything she is not wholly our own. I should think Dr. Arlington might have been likely to mention her adoption. No! now I tlink of it, he would not; because lie is not the man to talk about himself, especially to mention any act of kindness on his part; and he was as much interested in this mat- ter as any one." "Tell me about it, will you, Frank'?" requested Wilfred. And his friend recounted the story of the Christmas gift. Stanhope made no reply except "Thank you," and turned the conversation. Frank noticed that he said little more during the evening, and left with an early "Good night." A new cur- rent was given to his thoughts, and the more he pon- dered, the stronger seemed the probability that the reason Grace could not reciprocate his affection, was a pre-occupation of her heart. He was entirely silent in regard to it, however, and the subject of Gracie's family relations was not renewed.    SUNSHNE BREAKING.         57 CHAPTER   XI. SUNSTHNE BREAKING. Were truth our uttered language, angels might talk with men, And God-illumined earth should see the Golden Age again; For this world is full of beauty, as other worlds above, And if we did our duty, it might be full of love. Gerald Massey. AFTER Frank left Linwood, Grace went quietly about her duties as usual. The paleness soon passed from her face, her eyes grew bright agaain, her step regained its wonted elasticity. Yet for all this she was somewhat changed. There was a deeper thought- fulness upon her brow, at times shading into sadness, a far-reaching, questioning glance in her eyes. She was fitful and restless  entered with less interest into social pleasures, and liked to be oftener alone than before. Frank's letters were frequent, and many of them contained allusions to Marion, but only such as a friend or brother might write.  Mr. Shelburne was, of course, unable to be out in the evening, and Frank attended Marion to the opera, concerts, and lectures. Sometimes, but not often, he called at Mr. Shel- burne's, and passed an evening in the family circle. Nothing, however, in his words or manner could have been justly construed into an expression of interest in Marion deeper than brotherly kindness. And she   58         LINWOOD. never gave him the shadow of a reason to suppose that she regarded his attentions as otherwise, or would be as well pleased if they were. Her manner towards her own brothers or FElorie's husband was not more frank, easy, and child-like than towards hiim. Indeed, he had suspected, when reviewing the incidents of the previous two years, - doing so with peculiar care, because searching for tokens of Gracie's feelings,- that if Marion vhad ever felt an awakening of woman- ly interest in another at all, it was for Stanhope. Very few and slilght were the indications he could recall, -only a start, once or twice, when Wilfred addressed her- a blush, a smile - a kindling of her dark eyes, - and these were scarcely sufficient mate- rial on which to ground a supposition. But, trivial as they seemed, of oze point -he was suree! It was not his hand, or voice, or eye, that moved her feel- ings! All the meetings with Marion which occurred, the little incidents that transpired in connection with them, even the conversations that passed, were related in his letters to Grace, or his mother, with the freedom and naturalness that ever characterized him. But Grace, once awakened to a consciousness that her love had become the one absorbing element of her life, and thought, and hope, - her fear once excited, -- brooded painfully over all these. But for her active life this anxiety would have settled down into positive misery; but she was too high-principled, too much imbued with a love of use   SUNtSTIlNE' BREAKINAG.     59 to others, to neglect her duties in every-day life, and possessed too deep and real a trust in her heavenly Father's love and care to give way to entire dis- couragement. She resolved not to borrow trouble; to wait in love and hope, trust and patience, till the veil should be drawn from her eyes. Then, if heart answered to heart, she would accept the gift with grateful joy; if not, she believed " strength equal to the day " would be given. It was no want of con- fidence in her adopted mother that kept her wholly silent in relation to her love for Frank. If that af- fection were not crowned, she thought it best that it should remain in entire secrecy. The mother's heart would share too deeply in her sorrow. And there was another reason.  Frank would confide to his mother whatever hope he might entertain ai any future time: it might be difficult, if not impossible, for her to keep the secret of Gracie's love; and she would not have disclosed to him that she had given her heart unsought: only with deep humiliation could she acknowledge it to herself. Little things, however, revealed to Anne's watch- ful eye the true state of Gracie's feelings. She marked the sudden glow that mantled cheek and brow, the light that beamed from Gracie's eyes, whenever Frank's letters were brought to her. One morning she came into the parlor much ear- lier than usual, having left her workl-box there the previous evening. Grace was alone, bending over the rose-bush Frank had given her. She did not see   60          LLN LnWOOD. her mother's entrance, and Anne's light footfall was ever noiseless. She saw that tears were fast dropping upon the leaves, while Grace tended the plant. Si- lently as she came Anne slipped away, but laid up the token in her memory, with similar gleanings, for Frank's use if he should ever require them. Marion's visit was prolonged from time to time, though her brother's health continued to improve, and he felt quite eager to resume his business habits. "We cannot spare her just yet," said Florence. "Not just yet," was reiterated; and Christmas week arrived before they yielded a reluctant consent; but Mrs. Ellerslie insisted upon having Marion at home by that time, and she came with Frank's escort. He had given Stanhope a cordial invitation to ac- company him   home for the holidays, but was not much surprised when the latter declined. It was the day before Christmas. As Mrs. Welle- mont entered Frank's room in the morning, to see if anything that would conduce to his comfort or pleasure had been forgotten, her eye rested upon a tiny but beautiful bouquet, formed of a single bud from Gracie's cherished rose-bush, nestling amid a cluster of green leaves. It was placed in a small Bohemian vase, her own gift to Grace, and stood on the dressing-table. There,.' too, were a new pair of delicately wrought slippers, Gracie's Christmas present, but not the first she had made for Frank.   te declaaLhe should not feel at home anywhere with any other than Gracie's slippers   S UNSHINE BREAKING.     61 on his feet; and she always anticipated their wearing out. Her eye and hand had been everywhere about the room, and her thoughtful care had left nothing for her mother to do. "Dear Grace!" thought Anne, as she turned to go down stairs. "I believe she loves Frank as she can love but once; and they will be richly blessed in their union, for it will be a true marriage of heart and soul. The best thing I clan- do for them is to be silent, and let them find their own way. They will learn one another soon enough." Amid all Gracie's unquiet musings, not one unkind thought of Marion had been suffered to find a lodg- ment in her mind. She met Frank with her usual pleasant welcome, and soon after dinner went to Moss-rose Glen and passed an hour with her friend. During Gracie's absence, Frank sat in his mother's room, in close conference with her. "Mother dear," he asked, " do you know what sort of love Grace cherishes for me? Do you know if she cares for anzy one else? I would not ask you to pry into her feelings; but you know the force of these peculiar circumstances. If she cannot give me the love of a wife, I would not lose her sisterly affection. If denied my hope, I must so control myself that she shall never suspect it, because it would only mar her peace, and throw a restraint upon her intercourse with mne." "Yes, my son, you are perfectly right. I have thought of all that; for I have had no doubt of your   62         LINWOOD. feelings towards Grace since the morning you left home. But I have some little incidents to mention, which will answer your question so far as I can an- swer it; and whatever further response you desire, I advise you to seek from Grace herself, and at the first good opportunity, for her peace as well as your own." The remainder of the conversation need not be repeated. - Suffice it to say, when Frank came to the tea-table, there was a light in his eyes, a buoyancy in his tones, that seemed very much like the effect of a newly-inspired hopefulness.   THE CHRISTM"AS PARTY-BETROTHAL.      63 CHAPTER XII. THE CHRISTAMAS PARTY-BETROTIIAL. The beauty of life's morning-time, The day's full bloom and light, Art thou to me; and when, at last, Comes on the long, still night, O, I will crown me with thy love, And arm me with thy faith, Breathe out thy name from my deep heart, And thus go down to death. Grace Greenwood. IT was Christmas eve. A light snow had fallen the previous day and night, and lay white and level upon the ground. It was gleefully hailed by many a young heart; for in the climate of Philadelphia and its vicinity, sleighing is sufficiently rare to be highly prized. Floy shook the snow from her fetlocks, and rung her bells merrily, as she stood at the door, impatient to start. A beautiful pet she was: her color was a rich chestnut; her full, glossy mane and sweeping tail were a coal-black; and the foretop, drooping over her eyes of fire, and just touching the white star in her forehead, gave her a roguish, frolicsome look. It would be difficult to say when she was prettiest. Gracefully and easily she drew the light family car- riage. In'the saddle, Grace could do anything with her. She would trot or walk, if desired; but when Grace suddenly drew up her reins, then let them   "         LINTWOOD. fall on her favorite's neck, with a chirrup, or "On, Floy!" she carried her with almost wind-like speed; and Mr. Wellemont often said, when he lifted Grace from the saddle, "Well, birdie, what of your flight?  Yet Floy herself seemed to have a peculiar fancy for the sleigh. She entered into the prevailing excite- ment, liked the merry jingle of the bells, and would allow no one to pass her. Grace came down stairs attired for a party. Very beautiful she was, in her dress of blue silk, her wealth of golden hair half veiling her snowy neck, her eyes lighted with more than their usual animation. A few natural flowers were wreathed among her luxu- riant curls, a single japonica fastened in her breast- pin. She wore no other jewelry, except her mother's ring.  Frank did not praise her in words, but his dark eyes kindled with admiring affection, and there was an exultation in his tones, as he wrapped her clocak about her, and drew her hand within his arm. Cordial greetings met Marion on every side.  By those who knew her well she was much beloved, and her absence had been fell; in the social circle. Very lovely she was in her white dress, with the dark green leaves and scarlet berries of the holly entwined in her coronal of braided hair, and the sprigs of the rose- geranium  on her breast. Marion was very fond of dancing.  Her eyes flashed and sparkled, her color heighteiled, and many were the admiring looks that followed  her graceful forn, as she  threaded  the dreamy mazes.   THE CHtRISTMAS PARTY-BETROTHAL.    65 Grace danced the first set with Frank, as she had been accustomed to do. Marion was his next part- ner. Afterwards he led others upon the floor; but repeatedly he sought Gracie's hand. She asked in a low tone, "Had you not better invite some one else?" ' They will not mind it, as I have just come home," he answered. Grace seemed the same as he had been accustomed to see her. She was always animated and glad in social gatherings of this kind. It was no view to display, no wish to outshine others, no mere self- seeking in any form, that drew Grace, Marion, or Frank into company. A genuine love of the neigh- bor was admitted into their hearts as the ruling prin- ciple of life. They found pleasure in these scenes, it is true, and the more real and satisfactory, inasmuch as it came in the way of seeking to promote the wel- fare and happiness of others. Grace did enjoy the evening, as she appeared to do. But Frank thought --yes, he was sure--her hand once or twice trembled in his; her cheeks flushed when he came suddenly to her side; her eyes drooped beneath his own ; and his heart throbbed faster, his pulse bounded at the thought that his love was truly reciprocated. Frederic Ellerslie led Grace to the table. Frank followed with Marion. But not a word or tone reached Gracie's quick ear that in the least dis- turbed her. Later in the evening, however, she overheard one of Frank's young friends say to him, - 5   "        LINWOOD. "Ah, Frank, you've brought home your lady, it seems - prettier, if possible, than she used to be. I declare, I should be jealous of your taking such a prize, but that your sister fully equals her. It won't be my fault, a year or two hence, when I get settled in life, if I' not your brother-in-laW. I'm in earnest, now,"5 he added, for Frank had started, and looked, to say the least, surprised. "Tone surely won't stand in my way , such good friends as we are? 9 "Wait till you try, and see," Frank returned lightly. After a moment or two, he said in a serious tone,-       -  "James, I am not engaged. I have not sought any one as yet. Whatever reports may have reached your ears, or whatever you may have conjectured, I assure you honestly, are entirely groundless. And surely you will do Miss Ellerslie and myself the justice and kindness to contradict any thing of the kind you may hear." "I will, Frank," the young man answered candidly. "I was honest in my rema-rk, and intended only a little pleasantry in regard to an accepted fact. But I certainly would not injure Miss Ellerslie's feelings or your own, and will stop the report so far as my influence goes." "Thank you! But I must have another cotillon with Grace, and go home." Grace had glided away after Frank's request had been made. Not a word of the previous conversation    THE CHRISTM1IAS PARTY- BETROTIIAL.   67 had she lost; and its effect was telling in her chan- ging cheek and sparkling eye, when Frank reached her side. Half an hour after, Floy's bells sounded at the door, and Frank put Grace into the sleigh, and tucked her snugly in buffalo robes. Good nights- were interchanged with Frederic and Marion Ellerslie, who started at the same time; but Floy soon had the road to herself. Three miles lay between her and her warm stable, and she showed no disposition to lessen her speed. It was a lovely night. The moon shone full and clear on the new-fallen snow; the air was still; and it seemed to Grace that earth lay in a holy calm, as it might have lain that long-ago night, when all things waited the advent of a Redeemer -"the desire of all nations." "Are you cold, dear?" asked Frank, passing his arm around her. "No; very comfortable," she replied. "Lean close to me, darling, and keep warm," he said. Grace did not resist the movement that drew her closer and closer till she could feel the throbbing of his warm, manly heart. They rode on in silence a few moments; then Frank, thus holding her, and looking down into her eyes with a deeper tenderness ini his own than she had ever seen there, said, - "Grace, dearest, tell me that you will never leave this resting-place, this protection, for any other. I cannot give you to another, Grace! Tell me that I   68         LINWOOD. need not. It is no brother's love I offer you: it is the devotion of heart, and soul, and life. Tell me that these arms shall shield you --this heart be your home -that none shall ever draw you from   my side." Grace replied not in words; but her eyes, love- lighted and joyous, were still lifted to his face, while she nestled close to his side; and he was satisfied. Frank came down stairs, Christmas morning, wearing the new slippers, and with an evident elation in his eyes and voice. After breakfast, when the other members of the family had left the room, he drew Grace to the bay-window, where her favorite rose-bush stood, and fastened one of its bright buds in her breast-pin. Then, placing on her finger a ring, composed of seven small but exquisite pearls arranged in a cluster and set in the purest gold, he said,- "This is my Christmas gift, love! Do you accept it?"Grace looked up with her own bright smile, and he pressed her to his side, and sealed her lips in a betrothal kiss. ,   CONS UMMA TION.         69 CHAP TER XII. CONS UALVA TrON. But because this human love, though true ana sweet, Yours and mine, Has been sent by love more tender, more complete, More divine,- That it leads our hearts to rest -at last in heaven, Far above you, - Do I take you as a gift that God hath given - And I love you! Miss Procter. CHnISTMAS Eve has come again; and in the pleasant parlor at Linwood, a few friends are assem- bled.  Grace, in bridal white, her rich curls wreathed with myrtle, stands beside Frank; and those few solemn questions are asked, whose responses, when true, form the holiest of ties. Sincerely and earnestly their vows are breathed: the marriage-ring encircles the bride's finger, and the beautiful blessing is called down upon them, as they kneel with bowed heads, and hearts overflowing with a deep and hallowed joy. Grace is a wife; and Frank whispers, as he gives her his first kiss of wedded love,  "i:My Christmas Gift!" Mr. Wellemont lays his hand on her crowned head, and pressing his lips on her fair brow, says tenderly, - "My daughter, by a double tie!" "Darling daughter!" whispers Anne, folding her to her warm, maternal heart.   70         LINWOOD. Then comes little Josey, silent and shy, in her white dress, with the rose-buds clustering in her golden hair; and her blue eyes look glad, as she pushes the curls from her brow, and her red lips meet " sister Gracie's." Dr. Arlington is here; and as he gives the bride a fatherly kiss, his eyes moisten a moment, for thought flies to that loved one who would thus have stood by his side, had not the angels come for her so early. Grace is very dear to him; and fancy pictures one lilk,6 her, who by this time might have called him "Father!" The Ellerslie family are all present, and by Marion's side is Wilfred Stanhope. With no martyr- like determination, with no concealment to practise, has he come. His congratulation is as sincere and earnest as any offered. 'The conflict with himself was severe- indeed; but he wrestled manfully, in the strength of a just and holy principle, when he learned that the love he had sought belonged to another. His self-renunciation was entire - the victory com- plete! And when the combat was over, his thoughts turned to Marion; naturally, for they could but revert continually to the scenes in which his life during the two years previous had been passed. In Marion's visits to her sister Florence, he was much in her society, and the result was what might be anticipated. Other young men, worthy in every respect, had   CONS UMMA TION.       71 sought her favor, but without success.   People wondered and conjectured; but when the question whether Frank Wellemont could have trifled with her affections was suggested, the supposition was instantly refuted  by her unchanged   appearance. Light-hearted and brilliant she had always been. She did not grow pale or thin : her eye lost not its bright- ness, her footfall its elasticity, nor her voice its cheerful tone. She had not given her heart, but she awaited the seeking. And the band of pearls that now encircles her finger bears witness that she has not vainly hoped. 2            *?   72         LINWOOD. CHAPTER   XIV. CONCL USION. Old friends, old scenes will lovelier be, As more of heaven in all we see; Some softening gleam of love and prayer Shall dawn on every cross and care. Christian Year. AT the time with which our story commenced, Louis and Anne Wellemont were young. Twenty- five years have intervened, but time has touched them gently. Some silver threads are mingled with the hus- band's dark locks and the wife's sunnier tresses; their footsteps are slower, their brows more thoughtful, but wearing no trace of anxiety or discontent. Love to the Lord and their neighbor has been the ruling prin- ciple of their life; and where this is received, it brings with it a perpetual spring-time. Linwood, in all its beauty, remains unchanged. The home of Frank's and Gracie's childhood, it is also that of their wedded life. Anne has relinquished the housekeeping to Grace, but her loving heart and active hands have still enough to do. Five lovely children have brought new duties and new joys. The eldest, a bright boy of nine years, bears the name of Ernest Arlington. Frank commenced his practice, previous to his marriage, as assistant to Dr. Arlington, and has now an extensive business. The doctor, past sixty, but   CONCLUSION.        73- vigorous in mind and body, continues to practise considerably, though he has been, from the first, gradually passing over his business to Dr. Welle- mont. He still lives in the pretty Ingleside cottage; no other place this side heaven, as he says, would seem home. But his housekeeper has given place to Mrs. Frederic Ellerslie, the Anne Josephine of our story. Fred is but a year and a half Marion's senior; and ten years is not a very long interval between the ages of husband and wife. He playfully dates the commencement of his suit from the evening of Gracie's bridal, and assures Josey, with a serio- comic look, that his eye and heart were then taken captive. A little Grace, a beautiful child of nearly two years, sheds music and sunlight :through their home, and fllhe place in Dr. Arlington's heart that has long waited just such a tiny occupant. "Gampa" his pet calls him, and no grandfather ever enjoyed the relation more. Dr. Wilfred Stanhope is settled in Philadelphia, with a good and rapidly increasing practice. Marion's heart-jewels are four in number. She has literally exchanged homes with her sister Florence. Mr. Shelburne's improvement in health gave way almost immediately upon resuming his business, and on the return of painful and alarming symptoms, his physi- cian told him positively that his only hope lay in wholly leaving mercantile and city life, and procuring some employment in the country which would keep him out doors much of the time. He came with his   74      -   LINWO OD. family to Moss-rose Glen, settled there, and has now very comfortable health, with a prospect of many years yet before him. Mr. and Mrs. Preston are still living in Philadel- phia. Over their hearts and home the wing of time has but lightly passed. Their characters are matured, their love and confidence strengthened, their fireside circle as yet unbroken! One word we may say alike of all the families with whom we have become acquainted through the pages of our story. If their happiness has assumed a calmer tone, it has also deepened and increased; and none regret the blossom when it has given place to the ripening fruit.   THE SPIRIT OF THE FOUNTAIN. IN the centre of a large garden rose a beautiful fountain. Around its marble basin grew myrtles and moss-roses, interspersed with tufts of fragrant violets; and pure white lilies, like young brides, raised their delicate heads, amid the misty spray, enveloping them as a veil. From the fountain, the paths wound in different directions, amid many flowers; some of brilliant colors, and others of more quiet hues, but exqui- site perfume. The lily of the valley nestled cosily among its dark-green leaves.! The crimson honey- suckle and snowy jessamine entwined about prettily- formed arbors; and near the fount stood a summer- house, embowered in the rich clusters of the prairie rose. . A bright, still afternoon, in the very height of a glorious summer, a young maiden sat in this rose- bower, absorbed in reverie. Her graceful form and beautiful face accorded well with the scene. Luxuri- ant masses of chestnut curls shaded the high, white brow, and lay on her snowy neck.  Her large, dark eyes wore a deeply thoughtful and earnest expression. One fair hand  clasped an open letter, the other strayed lightly among her rich tresses. (75)   76    THEl - SPIRIT OF THE FOUNTAIN. After a while, her thoughts, half unconsciously, come forth into words. ' It is a beautiful letter. I wonder if it is all true - if he does love me so very much! That the ground I tread upon seems strewn with roses! That he cannot live without me! Thorwald is very hand- some; and I like that, though it is not the best thing. He is wealthy; and though I do not care most for that, it would be very pleasant to know I could have anything I might desire -rare pictures, statuary, costly books; have no more to do than I like; journey wherever I please; have a beautiful home of my own, and come to my childhood's home, O, so often! He is talented. His voice--O , is it not enchanting? And when he plays on his guitar or flute, do I not forget whether I am in mortal frame or not? What delightful times we might have together--if he is only good I If he truly loves me, and will not change! I could love him so very much! I can scarcely doubt him --but I am not sure--I cannot yet fully trust him. Would father and mother like it? I do not believe they would. They have good judgment - far better than mine- and a ripe experience. They like Wilmot, I know. Poor Wilmot! I believe he loves me, though he does not tell me so in words. His eyes are full of . tenderness when he lopks upon me--his voice is lower, more gentle, when he speaks to me--he lingers when he takes my hand to say farewell. Often, when I turn suddenly toward him, I find those   THE SPIRIT OF THE FOUNTAIN.     " deep, eyes watching me; but he is always silent when  Thorwald is near. Wilmot is good! I know his daily life is unspotted. His actions and words accord with the Golden Rule. He supports his aged mother and invalid sister by his own labor. He is poor; he is not so handsome as Thorwald; he is not accom- plished-but he is good-his mind is strong and richly stored- and he is very amiable. Thorwald seems all this - but I wish I knew!" Thus she mused, while the moments flew by un- noted. The summer breeze gently swayed the leaves; the flowers nodded their bright heads sleepily; the birds warbled; the fountain murmured cheerily; and lanthe's thoughts grew confused, and the soft lids veiled her splendid eyes. Presently she heard a low, tinkling-sound, like little bells, in the murmur of the fount. She listened, and it changed to a musical voice, calling her own name. She looked up; and on the basin's edge, amid the spray, stood a little lady, clad in an azure robe, spangled with silver, her long, golden curls entwined with a wreath of the tiny blue forget-me-not. She held in her right hand a silver cup. "I bring  thee a birthday gift, Ianthe! Use it faithfully!" As she spoke, she filled the cup from  the clear waters of the fount, and presented it to the maiden. "It is the Talisman of Truth.," she said. "Ianthe, you desire to know the real character of your lovers.   78    THE SPIRIT OF THE FOUNTAIN. It is a worthy desire. When either approaches you, test him thus: Show him the cup, only telling him that it is a recent gift to you. Then mark well the reflection in the water, as you offer it to him. It will be of the character, not the face. If he can bear the test, he will drink; otherwise he cannot." Ianthe was too much surprised to reply; and the lady's form seemed to melt into the mist, and her voice to mingle again with the fountain's murmur. Ere Ianthe had recovered from her astonishment, she saw Thorwald approaching. He seemed more graceful and handsome than ever. Bowing defer- entially, he accosted her :- "Empress of my heart, pardon my impatience! I could not wait a written reply to my solicitation. My happiness is in your hand. O, surely you are mine!" He would have drawn her passionately to his breast; but she repelled him by a gesture, and- then said, - "I cannot give my reply as yet. Show your re- spect, not to say regard for me, by patiently await- ing my decision. Meanwhile let us talk of other things. Since I saw you, I have received a present which pleases me much. I will show it to you." So saying, she lifted the cup from the flower-stand- by her side, where she had placed it, and held it to- . wards him, quietly casting her eyes upon the water. A beautiful plant was imaged there; but Ianthe knew that it was the poisonous sumach! She noted, too, that Thorwald did not touch the cup, and that he   THE SPIRIT OF THE FOUNTAIN.     79 seemed somewhat embarrassed. After a few remarks, he said, - "Pardon, dearest lady, that I leave you abruptly. You have forbidden me to press my suit; and I can- not control my eagerness while in your lovely pres- ence. Therefore I go, hoping it will be your gracious pleasure to recall me soon." He had not been gone long when Wilmot came. "Good evening," said lanthe, in reply to his pleas- ant greeting. "You look tired and warm. You must be thirsty. Let me give you some water from this my birthday gift." "Thank you," Wilmot replied.   "I am  indeed weary and overheated. This will be very refreshing." He took the cup, remarking upon its beauty; and Ianthe looked earnestly for the image. A lily ap- peared, as beautiful as any in her lovely garden, erect and graceful, evidently drawing its nourishment from hiealthy roots. No spot or stain marred the pearly petals, or the glossy green of its leaves. Ianthe would gladly have gazed upon it longer; but Wilmot eagerly drank the water. An hour passed in pleasant intercourse; and when Wilmot said, "Good night," he ventured, for the first time, to draw Ianthe to his breast, and imprint a kiss upon her brow. Her heart throbbed joyously as she thought, - "It must be a priceless blessing to love and be be- loved by one of essentially pure character and lofty aim; to be safe in loving!"   80    THE SPIRIT- OF THE FOUNTAIN. When she was again alone, Ianthe heard the low, bell-like sound; and on the rim of the fountain's basin stood the lady. With the loveliest smile and sweetest tones, she said, - "You have seen true emblems, Ianthe--one of self-love, as the ruling principle of life; the other, of love to the Lord and the neighbor. Treasure deeply the lesson in the secret chambers of your spirit. Pon- der well, and choose wisely.' NV   ERNEST'S CHOICE; .       OR, THE FIRESIDE FAIRY. ERNEST'S youth was just verging into manhood. One evening he had held a long conversation with his father and mother in relation to his plans and purposes, aims and hopes.  The thoughts thus awakened were not wholly banished from his mind, when sleep, with kindly influence, sealed his eyelids, and ere long they passed into a dream. He seemed to trace dimly in the moonlight the out- line of three female figures. In a moment or two one of them approached, and became perfectly defined to his vision. She was attired in a robe of purple velvet spangled with gold. Her hair, black as a raven's wing, was gathered into a coil, in which sparkled a multitude of large brilliants, and bracelets of amethyst and diamond encircled her wrists. Her eyes were black and piercing.  She carried in her right hand what seemed to be a golden wand, shaped like a serpent, with emerald eyes, and in her left a heavy purse. Soon her form gave place to another. The second was very different. A robe of dark-blue silk, dotted   82       ERNEST'S CHOICE, with silver, flowed gracefully to her feet, and a crown of laurel bound her auburn tresses. Her dark- hazel eyes wore a dreamy, restless expression. One hand grasped a lyre, the other a palm branch and silver cup. She, too, passed by, and another stood revealed in -the calm glory of moonlight. She was clad in spot- less white, with no other ornament than a golden cross upon her bosom, and a wreath of moss-rose buds on her brow. Her rich. golden-brown curls flowed around her snowy shoulders. Her clear eyes, blue as a summer sky, were full of truth and gentle kindness. In her righf hand nestled a beautiful white dove; in her left was-an olive-spray. A light cloud swept across the moon, and, when it had passed, Ernest at first thought he was alone. Presently he perceived an old man sitting in the arm- chair beside his bed. There was something about him  irresistibly attractive. His snow-white hair floated over his shoulders, a calm thoughtfulness was on his brow, a cheerful kindliness in his azure eyes. His hands were clasped upon an open volume which lay on his knee, and Ernest well knew what it was: beside him lay a scroll. "Listen," he said; and his tones were rich as the deep bass of an organ, gentle as a passing breeze. "To-morrow night these will all return to thee, and thou shalt choose one of them to be the preaidig genius of thy life. One is the real Fairy who brightens the home where she is received, no matter what   :^:i         OR THE FIRESIDE FAIR Y.     83 clouds may drift over the sky, or what tempestuous winds may blow. The other two profess to be such, and it is thy part to decide which thou wilt trust. The one that first came before thine eyes is Worldly Wealth, the second Fame, the last one Love. Thou must choose for thyself: but I will show thee three pictures. Think deeply and well ere thy choice is made. Thou dost not know me as yet, but at a future time I must sit at thy fireside as I sit beside thee now. My name is Experience. If thou dost wisely choose, I shall ever be to thee a welcome guest."' As the old man unrolled his scroll, there appeared a youth eagerly following Wealth. Early and late he toiled; and when overworn in mind and body, too weary and self-absorbed to pray, his anxious and perplexing thoughts would not let him rest. Money was gained; but the more he had, the more his desire increased, and he toiled on, refusing himself alike pleasure, rest, and mental cultivation. He had not time to read the Sacred Word. He went to church generally, but the body only was there; the thoughts and affections were among his ledgers and bales of merchandise. He sustained a fair business reputation, but he knew in his own soul that he had enriched himself at the expense of his neighbors' interest - that self-love bore sway in his heart and life, rather than the Golden Rule. He married a lady of wealth and worldly influence,   84       ERVEST'S CHOICE, and he thought he should find happiness. A large and costly house, magnificent furniture, a luxurious table, an array of servants, were his surroundings. But the woman he had wedded was like-himself, and mere self-seeking was her ruling motive. A child came, that might have filled heart and home with gladness; but where was the little one? Far away from the parlors where company thronged, and costly entertainments were provided for worldly pleasure, and pride, and broken health -in a nursery, with a hireling's care and teaching. There was a soft place in the man's heart, -for he was human still, -though worldliness had darkly encrusted it; and that spot might have grown larger, and by and by have given place to a new creation of spiritual affection, had the sunshine of his daughter's innocence and love been permitted free access there. But that would not be fashionable! Besides, the child would spoil the elegant parlors - and after a while the angels thought the parlors, with their occupants and concomitants, would spoil the child, if she grew up there to womanhood; and the Lord sent them down to bring her to His house, which is NOT TOO GOOD FOR CHLDREN. Sickness came, and the man lay, weak as an infant, on his bed of pain. The best physicians and nurses that could be had for pay were there; medicines and delicacies were provided in abundance ; but he wanted something more. He could not think of his business with the maddening pain in his head and limbs, and   OR THE FIRESIDE FAIRY.      85 the fever coursing like currents of fire through his veins. Where was she whose duty was by his side? Where was the hand whose caressing touch might have partially relieved the distracting pain, and calmed the nervousness of illness - the voice whose affection- ate tones might have soothed the way-worn heart? O, 'her health and spirits would not bear the con- finement- of a sick chamber." The doctors look grave, and they ask anxiously of one another, "CCan anythizg more be done?"And there is none to answer! Who shall tell him that they have tried every remedy in their power - that his earthly toil and care are over? It will be unwel- come tidings, for -heart and soul have been absorbed in getting " the unrighteous mammon," and now "who will commit to his trust the true riches?" Alone'- O, how utterly alone is the poor spirit- poor indeed in the sight of God and angels.  No friend -is near to tell him in the tenderest, gentlest words-none to offer for   him  a single prayer. Carriages have rolled to his door; there have been daily inquiries made, and cards of condolence left; and that is what those who have professed to be his friends, and have availed themselves of his entertain- ments and influence, do for him. Angels are around, watching, as they have watched all his lifetime, for some willingness to be led of the Lord rather than self.  A Saviour stands knocking at the door, but it is barred by piles of golden coin. The creature He  has made, and to whom He has ---   ERNEST'S CHOICE, given abundant earthly prosperity, and sought to draw to Himself by the very tenderness of mercy, knows Him not! Ernest covered his eyes with his hands. "The Lord forbid!" burst from his lips. When he again looked, the scroll presented a different scene. A young man, with lofty forehead and eagle eye, bent over a writing table, while around him lay many books. Sometimes he wrote as fast as his pen could move; then he would sit an hour or more rapt in intense thought. He grew pale and thin; yet, from dawn till past midnight he toiled, amid poverty and pain. His hair became prematurely white, his form stooping, his step feeble and slow, his spirit worn and weary. At last Fame stood at his side, and placed the laurel on his brow! But the deep lines of care, and anxiety, and midnight watchings were still there, and the crown relieved not the aching temples. The lyre sounded in his -ears; but he thought of a gentle voice that might have cheered him with far sweeter melody. He had drank indeed of the "charmed cup," but it quenched not his soul's thirst. And with the bitterness of unavailing regret the thought came over him of the joy it might have been to cast the laurel at a loved one's feet!' But he was alone - and now that he had secured the prize for which he toiled, he found it a worthless thing in his grasp! This picture passed away, and another appeared. It was of a poor man, not in absolute want, but maintaining a large family by his own labor. He   had met with misfortune, too, but he was not dis- couraged. He went quietly on his way, from day to day, "doing with his might what his hand found to do," always having something to bestow on those more needy than himself, and ever cheerful, hopeful, and contented. Sickness and pain visited him; but he endured patiently, and said with a smile, ' It is all for the best." 'Sorrow came. One and another dear friend went home before him. Three of his little children ex- changed their mother's fond care for the yet tenderer guardianship of angels; and this went to his heart's depths, for a time almost overwhelming him; but stronger and better he arose and passed on. There were those who daily blessed him that his hand had led them from ways of sin into the path of life. And some, who had borne the burden of grief, thanked the Lord for the consolation and strength his kindly words had brought. His home was lowly, but worthy the name. Order and industry, cheerful kindness and content- ment, were there. A wife, in her gentle loveliness, and little children, in their innocent affection, made it a sanctuary of the heart's deepest love. There was an altar, whereon lay the Holy Word, daily studied with an honest purpose --a view to life. The joyous sunshine and murimuring breeze, the perfumed flowers and warbling birds, the rippling brook and rushing river, the beauty of hill and dale,   88       ERNEST'S CHOICE. wood and waterfall, were all their own; and they had hearts to appreciate and rejoice in it, with the well-founded hope of a fairer and ever-enduring home hereafter. Love was the Fairy of their Fireside!   IDA LESLIE. CHAPTEBR I. MRS. LAWRENCE went quickly across her chamber, and rang the bell. "Susan," she said, as the girl opened the door, "run to Mr. Lawrence's store, and ask him to come directly home. Tell him I'm afraid Willie is very sick. And on your way stop and ask Mrs. Morris to come." Susan departed on her errand. In a few moments Mrs. Morris appeared, and with her assistance the mother gently but quickly undressed the little boy, and put him in a warm bath. This was just accom- plished when the father entered. "We must have a doctor directly," said he. "Who is the best physician in the place, Mrs. Morris?" "We employ Dr. Forrester," she replied.  "He has always given us entire satisfaction, and is gen- erally successful." Mr. Lawrence hurried away, merely saying, "Don't be discouraged, Mary. I'll soon have him here." The Lawrences had been only two months in their new home; and the Morris family were neighbors in the true sense of, the word. Mrs. Morris was fifteen years older than Mrs. Lawrence, and had brought up (89) f;   90        IDA LESLIE. a large family. Her judgment was naturally good, and this, with her ripe experience and unfailing kind- ness and energy, formed a safe ground of reliance. ,While Willie sat in his mother's lap, she went to the kitchen to prepare mustard draughts for his feet and chest. Scarcely ten minutes had passed since Mr. Lawrence left the house, when he returned- with the doctor. "My wife, Dr. Forrester," he said, as he opened the door. "Good morning, madam," said the doctor, briefly, scarcely glancing at the lady. He went directly to Willie's side, felt his pulse, and laid his hand on his chest; then asked abruptly, "What have you been doing for him?"Mrs. Lawrence mentioned the bath. "Right," said -the doctor. "Mustard draughts next." "Here they are, doctor," said Mrs. Morris, com- ing in as he spoke. A slight smile passed over his face, but he only said, "Put them on quickly," and, turning to the bureau, commenced preparing his medicines. He gave Willie a teaspoonful, and asked, "Who is to take my directions?" "I will take them, doctor," said Mrs. Lawrence. He gave them slowly and minutely, marking the medicines on slipe of paper, that there might be no mistake; then stood a few minutes watching the little patient. For the first time he looked full in the mother's face, and, as if noting its expression of deep anxiety, said, -   IDA LESLIE.        91 "The child is pretty sick, madam, but I hope he will recover. I have seen children as sick that are running about now with the best. I will come in again at five o'clock. Good morning." "You mustn't mind his manner," said Mrs. Mor- ris, after the doctor left. "He is odd, but his heart is right. He never spares himself for his patients, and he is very skilful. He will do everything that can be done -you may depend upon that; and he never says one word he does not mean, He thinks Willie will get well, or he-would not have said what he did." Not two minutes from five o'clock Dr. Forrester's heavy, regular tramp was heard upon the stairs. He thought the child rather better, and gave very partic- ular directions for the night. As he turned to go down stairs, he said, - If he should grow worse, -but I think he won't, - send over to my Burrow. I'll be on hand." Two or three days passed, during which Dr. For- rester gave the most assiduous care, with the fewest words possible, and then he said Wilhe was getting well. To the invitation to call, which Mr. and Mrs. Law- rence cordially extended, he replied, - "Thank' you. I rarely go out of my Burrow, ex- cept when I've something to do." "What do you think of our doctor, now you've tried him?" inquired Mrs. Morris, when she brought in her work, to make a neighborly visit, after mWillie had quite recovered. y'A                    " , t *s   2         IDA LESLIE.                I "I have no doubt he is an excellent physician," replied Mrs. Lawrence. "He took the best possible care of Willie, and was very kind in his own way. But I hardly know whether I like him or not. I don't understand him." "Nobody does, without knowing him a long time," remarked Mrs. Morris.  "You would be amused to see his house--for he keeps house all alone. He has been our physician these five years, but I have only once or twice seen the inside of his 'Burrow,' as he calls it. Isn't it a queer fancy ?" "You don't mean that is the name of his home?" asled Mrs. Lawrence with surprise. "I have heard him call it so once or twice, but supposed it only a joke." "Certainly I do. That's just like him. He built it to suit himself. The front door opens into a little square entry; on the right is his office, on the left his chamber, and opposite the door his kitchen. He buys milk, and makes coffee and tea, makes bread and toasts it, broils steaks, makes his bed, and sweeps his house. He has abundant means to live different- ly, and is a liberal man; but he won't have a woman about.  He entertains a cordial dislike to the whole race. His mother died before his recollection, and it is generally supposed that he has had a disappoint- ment." But we will leave the two ladies to finish their con- fab, and change the scene for one fifty miles away.   CHAPTER     %I. IAAGINE a grassy lane dotted with daisies, over- arched by various fruit and shade trees, and made merry by the combined music of the birds, and a tiny, gladsome, chirruping brook. Wild-rose Lane it is called, and it leads to Wild-rose Cottage; the way and the dwelling taking their name from the abun- dance of these flowers, lining the sides of the one, and clambering over the white latticed porch and green window-blinds of the other. Near by is the village church, with its snowy spire, and this is the par- sonage. The minister sits in his arm-chair, at his study- table, on which stands a vase of fresh flowers; and through the open window, with sunlight and fra- grance, bird-note and brook-murmur, comes a melody he loves better than all the rest-his daughter's voice in a low, sweet, pensive strain.  She is in the garden, engaged in gathering a bouquet for the tea- table, this little attention to her father's taste being her daily practice. Mr. Leslie pushes the hair from his heated brow, and lays aside his pen and finished sermon; then sits quietly musing the four or five minutes that elapse before the tea-bell is rung. Ida is the only one of all his household band now left within his earthly abode. Four are married, and settled at a distance from the    "        IDA LESLIE. spot where their childhood was passed; two have gone to an eternal home; and within one year the wife of his youth has followed them. But tenderly as he loved, and deeply as he sorrowed, the calm trust in Almighty Love which had been the habit of his life, sustained him. In their blessedness he re- joiced; and he was well assured that no real or last- ing separation had occurred, but that their spirits were even more closely consociated to his own than while they had. worn the garments of mortality. Ida was to him all a daughter could be. As near- ly as possible, she filled her mother's place, providing for his comfort, consulting his tastes and preferences, anticipatingr his wishes. Mentally he compared the influence of her presence to the genial sunshine, the soft fragrance of opening flowers, the light passing of a summer breeze, or the cadence of some olden song. "Her life is a poem," he sometimes said musingly- "Eher every act arnd word a prayer!" Nightly he clasped her in his arms and blessed her, while she leaned on his breast as in her childhood, and his ear- nest "Good night, my bird i " would vibrate in her heart till sleep' brooded on her eyes. Very lovely was Ida in spirit, and her face and form accorded well with the beauty of her character. Her glossy chestnut hair was parted on her high, white forehead, folded over her small ears, and gath- ered up in a massive braid. Oftentimes a rose-bud, a spray of crimson berries, or a cluster of dark-green leaves, was fastened amid its bands; but she never   IDA LESLIE.        95 marred its beauty by artificial ornaments. Her large, dark eyes were less sparkling, perhaps, than they had once been; but this was richly compensated by the soft light that shone from their depths, betokening a loving and contented spirit. True, they sometimes wore a look of sadness--the roses bloomed less brightly on her cheeks than formerly, her brow was more thoughtful, her springing step had changed to a more quiet footfall; yet to her faither's eyes she had never seemed so lovely. Five years ago her young affections were sought and won.  Three months of her engagement passed, when her lover, without a word of explanation, or any change of manner even, suddenly ceased   his visits.  Could she have been mistaken in his charac- ter? She sometimes asked herself the question, but she could not admit the idea. Half unconsciously to herself, she cherished the hope that there had been some mistake -  that his, act was not a deliberate and wilful trifling with her faith, though she could form not the slightest idea of what could have been sug- gested to his mind.  Her father had esteemed the young man highly; but his conduct towards Ida had left little doubt in Mr. Leslie's mind, and he thought it far better, deeply as he sympathized in her suffer- ing, that the connection should be broken than that her lot in life should be cast with such a one. Other young men, every way worthy, had sought to win her; but whether the wound was not healed,   96        IDA LESLIE. or she could not trust again, or her heart yet clung to the image of its early love, - she kindly, delicate- ly, but firmly, discouraged their efforts. She inherited her father's talent and taste for writ- ing, and, nearly a year previous to her engagement, had commenced sending articles to the press. She had met with success, but her name had not at that time appeared. After the first bitterness of her grief was over, she continued this occupation, and found it an unexpected relief to her feelings. It enabled her to increase her parents' comfort, and lessen their la- bor and care. During her mother's sickness, which was lingering and expensive, Ida often thought she could hardly be grateful enough that she possessed this resource. No exertion on her part was spared, no possible kindness omitted, that might smooth the invalid's way, and gladden her evening of life. A calm, bright, lovely evening indeed it was, closing in a sunset-glory, the' promise of a heavenly morning! And when the loving spirit of the wife and mother rose to the home of angels, the mantle of a serene trustfulness she had long worn seemed to fall around her dearest ones yet on earth. Ida was happy in her quiet life, for it was one full of use to others, blessed by a father's tenderest affection, and cheered by the thought of those she best loved, now angels in her path- a companion- ship not the less real, not the less consoling, because not discerned by any mortal sense.   IDA LESLIE.        97 She was not so lively, buoyant, mirthful, as she had been, and might have continued, had not the shadow fallen on her way. This might well be regretted; yet she was, doubtless, stronger; and perchance, as angels view this life, the increased spiritual power she possessed outweighed the pain and loss. Tea was over, and Ida drew a cricket to the side of her father's arm-chair, and took her favorite place at his feet. Then, unfolding a brown paper wrapper, she placed a handsomely bound volume in his hand, saying, "I thought you would be glad to receive this on your birthday, dear father." "Wild-rose Cluster! said Mr. Leslie, in a tone of great pleasure. "These are your poems, Ida, are they not? I thought they were not yet through the press. "They would not have been," she replied, "but that I succeeded in hurrying the publishers, in order to have this copy for a surprise. I only received it last night." Mr. Leslie's comments and expressions of satisfac- tion need not be repeated. True, he had seen most of the poems; and the criticisms of his highly culti- vated taste, and his ever-ready sympathy, had been of great assistance to his daughter in the prepara- tion of her volume. But they would bear many a 7   98         IDA LESLIE. re-perusal, and there was a charm to his fond eyes in seeing them in print. Ida waited perhaps ten  minutes while he looked them  over, and then re- minded him of a ride which they had planned for the evening, and in reference to which she had ordered an early tea. ,^      ,*   IDA LESLIE.        99 CHAPTEB   III. "WHAT'S the matter, Mrs. Lawrence? Your hus- band stopped at the Burrow, and told me to tramp up here- said you were not very sick, nor very well. What womanly mischief have you been about? Out all night at parties, or wearing thin shoes in wet weather?" This was the salutation of our gruff doctor, on a cold afternoon in the middle of January, as he drew his chair to the fire, and rubbed his hands with energy. Mrs. Lawrence had become quite accustomed to "his ways;" so she took this peculiar greeting very pleasantly, and made some playful reply. Though the doctor never deviated from his rule so far as-to call anywhere otherwise than professionally, he some- times remained, and talked awhile after prescribing his remedies. He thought Mrs. Lawrence one of the most endurable of her sex! On this occasion he staid some little time in his cosy corner, and while engaged in conversation, his eye caught a new book, which lay on the centre-table. He took it up, turned a few leaves, and commenced reading. Mrs. Lawrence occupied herself with her sewing, and allowed him to remain undisturbed. Nearly an hour had passed, and the gathering twi- light made it difficult to read. When about to lay   100        IDA LESLIE. down the volume, he turned- to the title-page, and read, "Wild-rose Cluster, by Ida Leslie." tle started, and turned very pale. Mrs. Law- rence, with ready tact, took no apparent notice. He rose, With a glance at the mantel-clock and an ex- pression of surprise at the time, and, declining her in- vitation to stay to tea, hastily took his leave. Thought was busy with the doctor that evening, as he sat in his arm-chair alone, gazing dreamily into the fire. He had a habit of talking to himself-- one to which, we incline to think, old bachelors are pecu- liarly disposed; and natuzrally- for- the yearning of the human heart for human companionship cannot be utterly suppressed. "Ida Leslie!" he said. "Can that be nzy Ida, as- I used to call her - as I fondly hoped she would be more and more? What a wicked deception to prac- tise upon me! How could I have trusted such a woman? And she zvas the loveliest creature I ever saw. I had not learned woman then - that was all. I could not have been safe in trusting any if not her. But she could not, were she utterly faithless, she could not give voice to such sentiments as those poems contain. Why not? It is no more strange or incon- sistent than all things else that I know of her. She must be the same. There could not be two Ida Les- lie's, two Wild-rose Cottages-and those poems, with their allusions, descriptions, ideas, I know em- anated nowhere else. Why can I not forget her? Why must that one dream of my life, that rainbow   IDA LESLIE.       101 hope dike in beauty, like in frailty), why must it remain to haunt me, to embitter all my life with the thought of what might have been? Why cannot I dash it aside? It is no more worthy my regard than the fancies of some of my poor -patients. But it's no use to reason about it--and I cannot forget it. Could I have been mistaken? I've asked myself that question a thousand times - and I'm never satis- fied with its answer. Had I not the proof of her faithlessness before my eyes - in her own handwrit- ing? Have I not the letter in my own keeping? I'll get it, and satisfy myself for to-night at least." So saying, the doctor took from his secretary an old-fashioned portfolio, and drew out of one pocket a worn fragment of a letter. He sat down by his study-lamp, and read it slowly three or four times. "Beloved one! I have received your precious let- ter. Perhaps I seem in haste to reply; but I cannot restrain the yearning to throw myself on the heart that is now my own, and tell you how much I love you. Come to me as soon as possible. All you ask is yours." More than half an hour the doctor sat musing. Then, springing to his feet, he struck his hands to- gether, saying, - "I have it now! Why did I never think of that before? It explains the whole thing. If it's only true--but I'm afraid. I've so long thought it was all wrong with her, all right with me, that I can hard- ly credit a different aspect. But if I live three days   102       IDA LESLIE. longer, I'll ascertain whether Ida has ever published a story. I believe I've made a fool of myself, and I'm afraid I've treated Ida unfairly. Poor girl! If it is so - if she were true in all she said to me- I've caused her terrible suffering. It is too bad- 'too bad! "There! Ida never will trust me again ; she couldn't do that. She may be married. Ida Leslie! That's nothing to the purpose. She may retain, in publish- ing, the name that first appeared; it is still her own, and a pretty one; she can hardly have taken another equal to it. But I don't believe she is married. I wouldn't have any man, if I were a woman, and had been treated as she has been - provided I was mis- taken. Did I do justly, did I act in a manly, hon- orable way towards her, in giving her no opportunity for explanation - saying nothing to her? But I thought I was scre. I had no right to be sure. But there again-why did not Ida tell me if she were writing for the press? That's none of your business, sir I No doubt she had a good reason. She wasn't the woman any way to talk about herself. Why didn't she tell me she made her father's shirts, and helped her mother preserve peaches? I happen to know she did, because I saw her doing it, when I went in two or three times unexpectedly." The next day, Dr. Forrester was more than usually busy. He was out nearly all day, and the following morning took the cars for the neighboring city. His first errand was into a bookstore. He selected   IDA LESLIE.        103 Wild-rose Cluster from the new books on the counter, and asked, - "Have you anything else by the same writer?" N"Nothing nearly so new as that," was the reply. "We have one other volume, a miscellaneous collec- tion--stories, short poems, and essays, first pub- lished in periodicals." This the doctor purchased, and went about other business. Immediately on his return home, or rather as soon as he had seen that his horses' wants were supplied, he commenced a search for a duplicate of the letter which had been as a thorn in his heart for five years. It was found!, Conflicting thoughts and feelings rushed over his soul like a torrent. Joy at the dis- covery, pity for Ida, self-reproach, hope, and fear, by turns absorbed him; and though thoroughly wearied, the night was far spent when he slept. 4   104        IDA LESLIE. CtAPPTER IV. DR. FORRESTER was in all things, times, and places a decided, energetic, impetuous man. He wrote im- mediately to Ida, acknowledging the injustice of his course, and imploring her forgiveness. He related the incident which he had thought a reason: to discon- tinue his attentions. One warm afternoon, as he passed up the lane towards Wild-rose Cottage, intend- ing to spend the evening with his betrothed, he saw, fluttering in the tall grass, a piece of letter-paper. On picking it up, and looking at it to ascertain whether it were of any value, and if so, where it be- longed, that he might restore it to its owner, he read almost in a single glance, and to his utter astonish- ment, an acceptance of a marriage proposal. Iie knew the hand, and' supposed the breeze liad swept the paper from Ida's writing-table, through the win- dow where it stood. He alluded to his feelings at this discovery, as he thought it, and his mental ex- perience during the subsequent five years - the pain he endured, the impossibility of banishing her image from his nrind; but blaming himself unsparingly, and expressing his deep sorrow for the injury she had suf- fered. "I scarcely dare hope you will again receive me, Ida," he added. "' Perhaps, indeed, another, far worthier than I, already claims your affection - per- haps you have lost all confidence in my sex -perhaps   IDA LESLIE.        105 your father (and I cannot blame him if it be so) will find it impossible to trust your happiness to my keeping, even if you should incline So do so. Still I cannot but hope - small as seems the probability-- for a return of old relations." This letter Ida received: Accompanying it was one for her father, containing a full, frank, manly acknowledgment, and asldng his pardon, alluding to the fact that the circumstances were explained in the letter to Ida. A week afterwards, Dr. Forrester received Mr. Leslie's reply, assuring him of his own and his daugh- ter's entire forgiveness, and inviting him to Wild-rose Cottage. This was not Mr. Leslie's first thought or inclina- tion. But after repeated conversations with Ida, and calm reflection, endeavoring to view the subject in all its bearings, and to act in relation to his daughter and her lover strictly according to the Golden Rule, he decided upon this course. It was indeed the severest trial of his Christian principle he had ever met. "For- give as we forgive," had never before seemed to him "a hard saying." But the temptation was fully over- come. "Then you do not entirely trust me, Ida," the doc- tor said in a tone half questioning, half sorrowing. "Well, I do not wonder - I cannot blame you." "Do you not understand me, doctor?  It is from   106        IDA LESLIE. no want of affection or confidence that I say this. I cannot leave my father, now that I am the only one left to comfort and cheer him -that my presence has become essential to his happiness --that the snows of Time are drifting on his temples, and he bears daily the burden of a deep sorrow. I say not simply, I ought not, - any one would know that, - but I cannot. What happiness could I have away from him?" "There is no need of separation, dearest one! I would not place my finger on the tie which binds- you to your father's heart." "But I cannot ask him to leave his field of use, the people of his charge and loving care, the scene of his life-long labor. Here is his wedded home, the birth- place of his children, the spot hallowed by number- less associations; and here my mother breathed out her life, and the violets bloom over her rest." "You are perfectly right, Ida, I know. 'Still, I see no reason that you should not be the sunlight of my life as well as his, for I am not a barnacle. Sup- pose I come here. I should get practice after a while, no doubt, and I can easily afford to wait for it. I could find something to do meanwhile, as pecuniary profit is not at present a necessity." The rest of the conversation may be passed over, as lovers are inclined to deviate from straight lines of argument. All the eloquence Dr. Forrester could command was brought to bear upon the point in ques- tion-with what success may be inferred from the   IDA LESLIE.        107 fact that, soon after his return home, his neighbors were astounded by the advertisement of his house and practice. The most fertile imagination failed to reach the idea really predominant in his mind; and not the slightest clew could be obtained from his words or manner. One -would as soon have thought of lulling an orang-outang to sleep as questioning him. But astonishment and wonder culminated when the pa- pers announced the marriage of Dr. James Forrester and Miss Ida Leslie. A young physician, with his bride, moved into Dr. Forrester's house, enlarged and ornamented it, and changed it, in name and nature, from a "Burrow " to a "Bird's Nest." It was a lovely Sabbath morning in early Octo- ber that Ida, simply- though richly attired in a dove- colored silk, with a spray of myrtle and a few white blossoms in her abundant hair, stood at the altar, and gave those solemn promises that bind heart to heart and hand to hand.  The wedding was in the church. Wild-rose Cottage would have been the bride's prefer- ence, had she consulted only her own feelings; but she could not find it in her heart to deny any of her father's people what they deemed a rare privilege. His hand slightly trembled as it rested on her head, and  his tones were less firm than usual when he called down upon her the nuptial blessing. "My darling wife!" whispered Dr. Forrester, as, on their return home after the morning service, he   108        IDA LESLIE. folded his bride in his arms, and looked tenderly into her eyes, "I have caused you suffering enough for a lifetime. God helping me, no act or word of mine hereafter shall give you a moment's pain." This resolution was faithfully kept; and Ida was truly a happy wife! In the years that followed, her husband could not do enough for her comfort and happiness to satisfy himself. Earnestly and unwea- riedly he strove, by the utmost care and tenderness, to compensate her, so far as lay in his power, for her past trial, and banish its recollection from her thoughts.  She appreciated his efforts, and her reciprocation of his love and kindness made his life as bright as he had once fondly hoped and dreamed. Mr. Leslie was fully satisfied, and anticipated with an unmingled peace and joy his own departure to the better land. The only thought in connection with it that had ever disturbed him was removed when the grief was lifted from his daughter's heart. Three years after Ida's marriage, when two little ones had come to claim her love and care, an old friend of Mr. Leslie, living at a distance, paid him a visit. Soon after tea, Mrs. Forrester left the parlor to put her children to bed. The doctor was in his of- fice, occupied in writing his day's journal and pre- paring medicines for his morning round, as was his invariable custom. Mr. Wentworth had from the first taken a warm   IDA LESLIE.        109 personal interest in Ida's publications, and he inquired of her father whether she continued to write for the press. "Occasionally," was the reply; "but her married life has brought new and varied duties, and these are most faithfully performed." "That is well," the friend remarked. "Yet we can scarcely help regretting that one so richly gifted, and so well fitted for that line of effort, should be re- stricted in any respect. Do you not think so?" Mr. Leslie did not reply for a moment or two, but sat with a musing expression on his face; then ris- ing, he said, with a smile, - "I will answer your question presently. Come into the garden with me, if you please." Leisurely the friends traversed the many paths of the garden, then in the luxuriant beauty of early sum- mer. Mr. Wentworth thought his question had been forgotten, when his companion paused at the end of a gravel walk, and called his attention to a lily of the valley, growing in a shady nook.  The blossoms were unusually large, and Mr. Wentworth admired them very much. Mr. Leslie quietly gathered some, and passed them to his friend, saying, "This way now, if you please," and guided him to a spot where the sunshine had free access. There, too, was a lily of the valley ; but its blossoms were of the usual size, and there was nothing in its appearance, though a healthy and beautiful plant, to mark it among others.   "O        IDA LESLIE. Mr. Leslie requested his friend, as he handed him the sprays he had culled from this, to compare them, in point of fragrance, with the first. "There you have my reply," he said. t The flower is larger in the shade, but sweeter in the sunshine."   THE MOTHER'S DREAM. "O, BABY, why don't you go to sleep? It is too hard, I do say, that I cannot get any rest- up and down all night, when I've taken care of him all day. Other babies sleep all night-I don't see why he don't - it's just a notion, waling up so!" Thus fretting, the mother caught up the child quick- ly, and tried to get him to sleep by very energetic trotting. He only cried harder, of course. She walked with him - rocked him; but her impatience had so far mastered her better feelings, that, for want of her usual gentleness and tenderness, all her efforts failed. At length the babe's pitiful wailing touched her heart; and after ten minutes of patient soothing, she laid him in bed, sleeping sweetly. But she could not rest. Conscience was too busy. Florence Merton really loved her babe, and tended him carefully. But she was not well, and she was very tired. Her husband had been absent from home nearly a week, and consequently the whole care of the babe at night devolved upon her. He was a delicate and extremely nervous child, therefore rest- less at any time; and just then, the irritation caused by his teeth was far more severe than his mother sup- posed. (111)   "2     THE MOTHER'S DREAM. After an hour had passed in vain efforts to sleep, she fell into an uneasy slumber. Images of her babe, sick and suffering, startled her repeatedly; and when at length she slept less lightly, her thoughts only took a more definite form. She seemed to have been awakened by the babe's crying. As she was about to rise wearily, a low, gentle; but saddened voice said, - "Take thy rest, mother! I will nurse thy babe in a better land than this. In our heavenly home we feel no weariness."  A female form of exquisite beauty stood before her. The stranger's eyes, full of unspeakable tenderness, rested on the babe. She gathered her robe, white as the falling snow, around her, as if to depart, and reached her arms to take the child to her bosom. The mother seemed to herself spell-bound. She could not speak, though a wild anguish was welling from her heart. The bright one folded the babe to her breast, and he leaned his little head upon her, and smiled lov- ingly in her face. Then, still clinging to the angel, he smiled upon his mother, as if in farewell. Her agony burst forth. "Give me back my babe, bright spirit!" she cried. "Only give him to me! I will never complain again -I will nurse him, day and night, without a murmur. I cannot, cannot live without him." Slowly, sadly the angel spoke. "It is not for me to say. I pity thee most deeply,   THE MOTHER 'S DREAM.      113 fond mother! But the word has gone forth; and it is only mine to obey."  Breathless, trembling in every limb, Florence awoke! Her babe slept by her side. The night-taper had burned low; and the gray dawn was just appearing. She arose, and threw herself on her knees beside the bed. Fervently did she pray, that morning, for forgive- ness and strength. And as an incense fire ascended her spirit's grateful love! In after-time friends wondered at her devotion to her children. Florence smiled quietly sometimes, and said nothing. But to other mothers she told the story of her murmurings, and the lesson she re- ceived. 8   THE CRUCIBLE. THE morning was bright and beautiful. The sum- mer breeze, laden with the perfume of flowers and song of birds, swept joyously into the open doors and windows of a pretty cottage. It was painted white, with green blinds; and over the latticed porch a honeysuckle had been trained by careful hands. A prairie rose climbed around the windows; and the tall linden trees, on each side of the garden walk, formed, by their interlacing boughs, an arch more superb than any that man's hand can frame. Some had said, "I wouldn't have those flowers. I wouldn't have those trees so near: the house won't last as long." Wilfred Claremont thought not thus, though well aware of the fact stated. A luxurious home, costly presents, he could not offer his bride; and he resolved that around her should cluster all the natural beauty and sweetness he could command. Thus thought not Marion, when she stood by her husband's side, on the threshold of their marriage home and-wedded life. Something very different said the loving glance of her deep-blue eyes, in which, as they rested on him, the glad tears glistened like dew. Scarcely a year has passed since that day; and, (114)   THE CR UCIBLE.      115 from the pleasantest chamber of their home comes an unwonted sound--a babe's voice. Very happy had they been in their wedded love - their cup of blessing had seemed well filled; but a new gift has come, and been received with grateful hearts. Very fair was the babe,---with its mother's clear blue eyes and golden hair, its father's noble brow and finely-cut mouth. Mothers need not be told-no others can be- the rapture that thrilled Marion's bosom when she clasped her boy in her arms, and pressed the velvety little cheek to hers, - the deep, still joy, the intense love, in which, as in a baptismal flood, she lay with her babe by her side, day after day that would else have been intolerably tedious. They wonder not that she thought the peril and the pain fully compensated, the first time that Wilfred clasped mother and babe in one embrace, and sealing his love on the pure lips and brows, breathed a fervent thanksgiving, an ear- nest blessing, on those nearest his heart! A few months passed. Marion had regained her health, and found every care and fatigue overbal- anced by the hourly comfort and delight, the babe brought to heart and home. Only a few months and he learned to know her voice, and his little arms were twined about her neck; and O, what cares, what midnight waking, what hours of weariness, would not that touch repay! Little Wilhe was healthy, and grew fast. Day by day, the happy parents watched his physical develop-   "6       THE CR UCIBLE. ment and the unfolding of his mind. Many were the stores laid up in Marion's heart, and told to WTil- fred when he returned home. At first they thought the baby the prettiest sight their eyes had ever be- held; yet he seemed to grow more beautiful every day. A year has fled on rose-tipped wings; the little feet begin to fulfil their intended office, the bird-like tones to be formed into words. The " angel of the household?' truly is the darling child! Morning and evening the incense of grateful wor- ship ascends from the altar of their home; and in every hour the yet better offering of earnest love, silent thankfulness, sincere consecration. The waters of baptism have laved the innocent brow; the settled purpose of parental love is to guide the little one in the way to heaven. Why must a shadow fall on the dwelling hallowed by love and prayer? Ah, it is but "of the earth, earthy," - and to earth belongeth change! An awful stillness broods over the house, broken only by the piteous wail of the suffering babe. Very grave is the doctor's face; and Marion reads there but too well the fear she has not the heart to ques- tion. No word passes her lips; no tears relieve her overwhelming agony. "In straits like this the heart drops only blood." "Doctor, is there any hope?" asked the sorrowing father, when he had for a moment drawn him aside. Dr. Grey was a man of deeply religious baraoter,   THE CR UCIBLE.      117 and warm human sympathies; a valued friend of Wilfred and Marion. Wilhe was his especial pet. He was a father; and, though unused to tears, his eyes were wet now, as he pressed his friend's hand, and replied, - "Yes, Willie is very sick; but with God all things are possible. We will do our best, - all we can, - and trust the result to Almighty Love." The best of care he certainly gave - day and night he was by Willie's side. His wife was there much of the time; all kindness, attention, sympathy- doing everything in her power, in the quietest pos- sible way. Other friends, too, came, kind and help- ful, actuated as much by love for the child as by pity for the parents; for Wilhe was a favorite. His beau- ty had attracted attention, and his winning ways had woven -a tie around many hearts. All that affection and tender care could do was done. They succeeded in relieving partially his pain; but the babe evidently grew weaker and paler day by day. In intervals of comparative ease, he would smile, and reach his little arms to his mother, to clasp her neck; and then it seemed to Marion that her heart must break. Ardent and imaginative in her nature, she could not but foreshadow what appeared to be the coming woe. It seemed as if every hour of her boy's life were present to her memory. His innocence--his baby smile and laugh -his sweet warbling tones - his playful ways - and more than all, in all, the love of that little heart, his clinging tc   "8       THE CRUCIBLE. her, and his appealing look, that besought the help she had not power to give, - as all these thronged upon her soul, the bitter thought that soon she could claim them no longer, filled her with untold anguish. She who could sleep only with her darling close to her bosom, -how could she live when those clinging arms were unclasped from her neck? The bright head that had nestled in her breast, - the beautiful form that, had been her daily care, - how could she lay down forever? Those eyes, brighter than the morning star, lovelier than spring violets,--how could she see them closed in a last sleep? That lit- tle voice, sweeter than angel music, -how could she bear to miss it from her home? And yet, amidst all her agony, the mother's faith did not fail! It was indeed the Gethsemane of Marion Claremont's life; and in the strength of her suffering and all-conquering Lord, she offered, in very truth, His prayer. She suppressed her grief to min- ister to her babe, to comfort her husband, and lead him in the path she was treading firmly, though with bleeding feet--the way of self-renunciation, and trust, and prayer. The evening of the third day, the doctor left them with a yet graver look, saying he would return in half an hour, and spend the night. Short and feeble was the infant breath; still and apparently uncon- scious lay the little form; yet they could not but be grateful even for a cessation of pain. Wilfred stood by the bed, deep lines of agony writ-   THE CR VCIBLE.      119 ten on his brow, his pale face and compressed lips betokening his heart-struggle. Marion went to his side, and silently putting her arm around his neck, drew him-to kneel with her. In low and interrupted tones the prayer was offered; but ere it ceased an answer of deep peace came to their spirits. "Our Father! Thou only knowest our hearts. Thou knowest, for Thou hast given, all their love. Thou knowest all our babe is to us -the agony we O, Father, he is the light, and flower, and music of our home - the fruit of our wedded love - the closest bond of union Thou hast given. He is our household angel, bringing us nearer, ever nearer, to Thee, and Thy holy ones, so close to him. Yet if Thou dost design to bring us still closer to Thee, - to bind our hearts more to our heavenly home, - by if wovershadowing this, wherein, we may have rested too much, and taking our loved one to Thyself, O, Saviour, keep us from murmuring. Let us not doubt Thy mercy, Thou who hast poured out Thy own soul unto death, that Thou mightst redeem those who loved Thee not! Let us not distrust the love that only acts by infinite wisdom! Let Thy power sustain us--for we have no strength but in Thee! 'Cover us with Thy feathers; and under Thy wings will we trust.' 'If it be possible, let this cup pass from us!' But enable us, our Saviour, to say with heart and soul, 'Thy will be done!" The silent embrace of Wilfred, the mute pressure of his lips upon her brow, told Marion that the Com-   120        THEL CRUCIBLE. forter had come to him. For the first time since her babe's illness, the fount of tears was unsealed. She wept freely on her husband's bosom, and arose calm and sustained. All that night Dr. Grey watched with them. Tenderly he held the babe in his arms, administering medicine at short intervals. With the gray dawn of morning a change passed over the child's face; his sleep became quiet as in health; a gentle perspiration spread over him. An answering change of expres- sion was visible in the doctor's countenance. The father and mother read it even before his low and fervent words, "Thank God!" reached their ears. The veiled angel had passed by! And was this trial needless - or in vain? In after years, Wilfred's and Marion's hearts bore witness that it was not! Not only had it proved their truest friends, and bound them to these more closely, but it left them with hearts purer and stronger, more truly sympathetic,- with a faith steadier, clearer, more child-like--a love more intense - a greater patience, gentleness, and tenderness :towards their child- a deeper consecration!     .  '        \   Hath evil wrouht; Her burial anthem is a glad evangel-- The good die not! - God calls our loved ones, but we lose not wholly What ie ihath given; They live onr earth, in thought and deed, as truly As in His heaven. And she is with thee -in thy path of trial She walketh yet;  Still with the baptism of thy self-denial Her locks are wet. J. G. Whittier. IT was a beautiful morning in early October that the Snowy Petrel weighed anchor in New York har- bor, outward bound.   Among the passengers were a young married pair, their child and nurse; and it is with these only, of all the freight of precious human lives she carried, that our story has to do. Cassimer Lambert stood on the deck, as the steamer left her moorings, his arm closely clasped around his invalid wife, supporting her as she sat looking out upon her native land, with an earnest, lingering, yearning gaze, as if she felt in her own soul a con-   122      FLORENCE LAMBERT. sciousness, a certainty, that her mortal vision should never again take in the picture. Lilian Palmer was but seventeen when she became a wife. One year flitted by, and brought on its silver-tipped wings the name and benison of motherhood. The little Florence, now five years old, stands by her mother's side. She is a beautiful child. Her dark hair falls in soft curls around her face; her large, brown eyes dance with pleasure and eager expecta- tion. Her delicately-moulded features would seem to indicate a like delicacy of constitution, but that the supposition is contradicted by the clear brunette colm- plexion and rosy cheek. The father's glance rested oftentimes upon the lit- tle one, but always went quickly back to his wife's face, and the gravity of his brow grew deeper, as if . an unspoken thought had for him a weight of pain. It was so indeed - the dread questioning whether he should bring to these shores again the mother with the child, or whether the wife of his youth were near- ing the port of everlasting peace. Well was it for her, he knew; but his heart throbbed in silent anguish at the thought of his own loneliness, and even more, of the little one yet in her babyhood.  O, how bitterly in after-years might come the knowledge of her loss - that of which she was, as yet, utterly unconscious! Another thought he strove ofttimes to put away, which, ever recurring, stirred his soul yet more deeply. Were these fast-   ?:      -FLORENCE LAMBERT.             123 fleeting days the last "of his intercommunion with the loving spirit shrined in the fragile form by his side? Should he meet her in the spirit-land, and there fold her to his heart, his own forever? Cassimner Lambert knew not as yet the peace that flows from the heart of a redeeming Lord into those hearts that have learned to trust Him.  Through the baptism of sor- row he shall arise to learn that lesson; and the fu- ture holdeth for him an hour such as he dreams not of, when he shall bless the all-loving Father for the leadings of His hand, albeit that hand is now silent- ly, slowly, surely withdrawing from his clasp that which he most loves, most values, of all in earth or heaven. Lilian's heart had yielded to the holy influence that came with her babe.: the first prayer of her woman- hood was offered beside the cradle: the mother-love awakened in her breast rose like an altar-fire to heaven. She was, indeed, about to cast anchor on the golden shore of a blessed Eternity; and no one knew this better than herself. Her physician had recommended a voyage and 'a winter in Italy as the only possible chance of recovery; and she had acquiesced in her husband's desire, more that he might not have an after-regret - a thought that any means had been left untried-than from  any other feeling. She well knew how useless was it all to call her spirit back from the harbor she was just entering. True, life had been for her a pleasant voyage over tranquil seas. A husband's devoted affection, a lovely child, were   124      FLORENCE LAMBERT, hers; and wealth surrounded her with its comforts and refinements. But the angel-call to a yet brighter home was in her spirit's ear, and she bowed in acqui- escence, but kept silence, to spare her husband pain. Only a few months went by, after her failing feet first pressed the beautiful Italian shores, ere those feet were resting forever, and the loving eyes sleep- ing their last slumber beneath the orange trees and myrtles of the foreign land. The hour with which "a stranger intermneddleth not " had come and passed, with its last embrace and kiss; the parting words burning with the wife's intense desire for her hus- banld's share in the bright inheritance awaiting her, where their union would nevermore be severed; the earnest prayer for him, for the little one; the calm assurance of a heart resting ill a Saviour's all-per- vading love, --it had passed, but written its record in his soul with pen of fire. The faithful Madeline had been Mrs. Lambert's nurse in her own childhood, and had rendered to her and the little Florence the service of a devoted affec- tion which money cannot purchase. Her hand min- istered to the parting wife and mother with the tenderest care.' She watched by her bedside in alternation with the sorrowing husband. She robed her beautiful form and arranged her rich tresses for the last time. She twined the white flowers around the marble brow, and laid them on the pulseless breast, clasping them in the hands which should never more be lifted even in a caress.   FLORENCE LAMtBERT.       125 Lilian was laid to rest; and the lonely father turned towards his native -land, leaving all that was earthly of his most precious treasure, the deepest love of his life, but carrying with him the beautiful gift she left, and an angel-presence, comforting, sustain- ing, drawing his thoughts and affections towards the home whither she had gone. Her Bible lay on the light-stand in his state-room, and the promise given hi reply to her last request, to read its sacred pages daily, was faithfully kept. A gold locket, contain- ing an exquisite miniature of the loved and sainted one, and a soft, full, sunny curl lay close to his heart, hidden from all eyes. Cassimer Lambert was a man of few words and natural secretiveness. His deepest feelings rarely found expression in words. But one morning, when Madeline was occupied in arranging some articles of clothing which had been Mrs. Lambert's, he said,- "c'Nurse, I thought, when Lilian passed out of my care, that she was lost to me. It is not so: she is still mine. She is only awaiting my coming home." A glad light was in the nurse's clear gray eyes, as she lifted them a moment to his face. A  low- voiced word passed her lips - -"The Lord be praised!"   126      FLORENCE LAMBERT. CHAPTER   II. Two locks, - and they are wondrous fair, - Left me that vision mild; The brown is from the mother's hair, The blond is from the child. And when I see that lock of gold, Pale grows the evening red; And when the dark lock I behold, I wish that I were dead. Longfellow. THEY were nearing Liverpool when they encoun- tered a heavy gale. There is no need to recount the old, old story. The life-boat was lowered, the women and children packed in it, and landed. Again and again the fragile bark went safely over the billowy way. Cassimer Lambert refused to leave the steamer while a man remained on board. With the captain and three others, lhe stands, in the calm bravery of his manhood, on the upper deck, the waves dashing over the lower one, awaiting the boat's return. Their peril increases with every instant. But she nears them-they may yet be saved! A group on shore watch with strained eyesight and fast-throbbing hearts. "She is conming, coming," they cry. "Almost here!" But at that moment--a fearful emphasis upon the almost --the boat capsized; and that was the last poor Madeline ever knew of her kind and beloved employer, ere her soul's vision was unsealed where "is no more sea." Perhaps she might then learn   FLORENCE LAMBERT.       127 -what, could she have known it here, would have blessed her with an unselfish joy, and surelyv would not be less gladly welcomed in a purer state of spirit- ual life. A few fishermen's hamlets were all that told of habitation on the little point of land where the res- cued voyagers were cast. The men and their wives did all they could to relieve them, giving up their own beds, and offering every comfort their scanty store afforded. Madeline nursed the little Florence with a mother- like tenderness, and took passage with her in the first hoeme-bound vessel that reached them. Arrived in New York, she went directly to the house occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Lambert, Senior, at the time of their son's embarkation; but they had- moved away, and no one in the neighborhood knew of their place of residence. Mr. Lambert was a man whose presence of mind was never overcome by any emergency. When- Madeline, with his child, left the vessel, he gave his pocket-book into her charge.  The kind fishermen had refused to take anything from those they had befriended in extrem- ity, and the passage money had been so far the only reduction of its contents. But the slender supply would last only a little time. Something must be done, and quickly---but what?  She took board in a respectable private family, and energetically- con- -;   tinued her search, advertising in all the first-class newspapers. But she could find nothing in the latest   128      FLORENCE LAMBERT. Directory but the address she already knew; and after a week of fruitless toil, she concluded the Lam- berts must have left the city. Letters were, no doubt, awaiting their son in Liverpool; but she could get no clew whatever. Lilian's mother had gone to the spirit-land before her marriage, and her father had given her his part- ing blessing a year previous to her sailing for Italy. She was an only child, and her inheritance had all come into her possession. Madeline was aware that Mr. Lambert was wealthy; but of his investments she knew nothing. Besides, Florence was scarcely six years old: a long period must elapse before she could claim her right; and who would take the poor nurse's word for that right? She had already sought the pastor of the church the Lambert family attended, in the hope that he might be able to give her their address; but he had entered into his rest, and the new minister, having been settled since they removed, could not furnish the desired information. Evidently she could do nothing, in relation to Floy's inheritance, beyond advertising from time to time in various journals; and even this would cost money, and every penny must be counted. The little Qne so tenderly reared, with scarce a wish ungratified hitherto, had no earthly dependence save the'lovincgr heart and active hands that had ministered to her ever since her birth. Madelile's health muight fail-she might not live to rear her to womanhood. But she said to herself, -   FLORENCE LAZMBERT.      129 "The God her mother trusted will love her and provide for her. He will lead me in the right path, and keep us together so long as He sees that to be best. Any way, I'll do my duty, and not borrow trouble." Homely philosophy, perhaps, but better than a thousand elaborate pulpit discourses. Madeline concluded to go to Wilmington, New   i Jersey, where her only relatives resided. She was again disappointed. Her nephew had gone " out west," where his wife's friends were liv- ing, and whence he had brought her two years pre- vious. But nothing more definite than this could she obtain in relation to the locality he had chosen. Madeline would not give way to discouragement. She had spent as much as she thought prudent for travelling, and concluded to go into the country, and procure what work she could, cherishing the while a hope that some way would be opened for her to re- store Florence to her relatives. She hired two rooms in a house owned by a re- spectable mechalnic, and took in washing and ironing. Florence went to the district school regularly. And in this quiet, humble way they lived on together, the child and the old woman, for five years. Florence was very happy, for love was the only influence she knew; her every real want was sup- plied; she had the companionship of free, joyous, affectionate children, perfect health, and the full lib- erty of enjoyment belonging only to country life. The bright blue sky, with its fleecy, ever-changing 9   FLORENCE LAMBERT. clouds, the, mist-wrapped hills, the grassy, flower- besprinkled lanes, the dear old woods with all their numberless riches of waving foliage and clustering, wild flowers, birds, squirrels, and rabbits, berries and nuts, the singing brooks and dashing waterfalls, the deep-blue river, - all these were Florie's surround- ings, her right; and she had a nature fitted to receive and enjoy it all. She inherited her mother's ar- dent, poetic, susceptible temperament, modified and strengthened by the graver characteristics of her father. She was too young, when parted from her parents, tcr know her loss. In the child's mind, the mother's memory was like a soft, beautiful picture, seen through gathering twilight. Her father she recollected more fully; but she had never been ac- customed to constant companionship with him, and little hearts soon rebound to all that joyousness to which they are most akin. Well may he tremble who checks needlessly this joy, -whose ruthless hand, whether in thoughtlessness or of deliberate purpose, snatches from the little one's soul the mantle with which a loving Father has enwrapped it, and that angels love to protect,--and holds to childish or youthful lips the bitter apple of worldly wisdom! But there came a day when old Madeline's spirit obeyed the angel-call, "Come up hither!"  Poor little Floy!   FLORENCE LAMBER T.   131   CHAPTER   III. Live and love, - Doing both nobly, because lowlily; Live and work, - strongly, because patiently I And for the deed of death, trust it to God, That it be well done, unrepented of, And not to loss. Mrs. Browning. THE people to whom the house belonged were well disposed, but they were poor, and had nine children of their own to maintain. They did about as well as they knew how for Floy.  That is, they sheltered and fed her, as they did their own little ones, for a month, and sought to comfort her with kind words and caresses, till the first bitterness of her grief had passed away. Meanwhile they tried to find a place for her in the neighborhood, where she could do light work for her board and clothes, and would be kindly treated; but in this they were not successful. "Why don't you send the child to the almshouse?" one and another of the neighbors questioned. "You've got your hands full." But the mother's heart yearned over "the poor, desolate wee thing," and to all such suggestions she turned a deaf ear. The question of what should be done with Floy came to be the theme of every evening's confab be-   132      FLORENCE LAMBERT. tween the husband and wife, after the children went to bed. "Something happened" which led to a decision. This was a visit from a cousin of Mrs. Reese. She met a warm welcome, for the two were strongly attached, having grown up in daily intercourse. But Alice had married early, and Jenny, being one of a large family, and her father having no means of sup- port aside from the farm he owned,'had been, at six- teen, obliged to earn her own support. For two years she had been employed in a large confectionery establishment in Philadelphia, whither she had gone from Germantown, the native place of Mrs. Reese and herself. During this time the cousins had not met, and Jenny came, in reply to an invitation Several times proffered, to spend half of her week's vacation with Alice. Of course, almost the first question was, "Where did this little girl come from?" It was briefly answered at the time; but afterwards, when the children were in the land of dreams, the whole story was told, and met by an eager sugges- tion from Jenny. "The custom of our store has increased very much the last year," she said; "and we have really more than we can well do. I think I told you Mrs. Mills had moved to a store on Chestnut Street? I heard her say, only last week, that she must look for a girl of twelve, or thereabouts, to carry home parcels, help wash dishes, answer the table-bells, and so on. The   FLORENCE LAMBERT.      133 work is light, and the child seems to be an active, sprightly, willing little thing." "Yes, she's all that," replied Alice, "and true as steel." "They would like her, I know; and I'll venture to take her home. I have a little room to myself at the boarding-house, and I'll take her in with me." "Well, if it is really a good place, and you're sure of getting her in - I don't know - I suppose it is the best thing we can do, isn't it, husband?" "I don't see what else you can do," bluntly, but not ill-naturedly, answered Mr. Reese. "We would willingly keep her if we could, Jenny, for we like the little thing, and pity her too; but it costs a hard struggle to feed and clothe our own children, and it is no use to worry over what cannot be helped. We have tried all round here, but there is no good place to be had. That cross old Ma'am Traverse, round the corner, would be glad enough to get her, but she shan't have her; and the Dunfords too, but they would put a woman's work upon her, and feed her short at that. It is a great deal to have you to look after her, and of course you know about the place." "Yes, indeed! Haven't I been there two years? I don't want a better, unless it is a home of my own," answered Jenny, gayly. "I have done better than I ever expected. I am sure I wouldn't go back to the kitchen-work on a farm." Ah, Jenny, that may-be. But does it not cross your mind that to your robust frame and firm mus-   134      FLORENCE LAMBERT. cles, your strong hands and feet, the selfsame labor that would wear down a child's life, and crush all the hope, and joy, and elasticity of childhood far out of sight, is a light thing? Do you not know that your larger liberty, young acquaintances, and fre- quent recreations, the wages you command, and, not least, that smart young clerk in the opposite dry- goods store, who walks home with you every evening, and sometimes talks about a snug little house to be occupied by and by, enter largely into the compound that you call " splendid times"? Do you bear in mind the fact that the prospective errand-girl, who- ever she may be, will be "a servant of servants"? - that she must answer the call and obey the bidding of some half dozen young, thoughtless mistresses, new-fledged with a little authority? No;- Jenny thinks not of all this, and she is hon- est in her proposition. So the matter was settled, and Floy's small ward- robe packed, though Mrs. Reese had some misgivings. Then came a sorrowful parting. The children all loved Florence, and she loved them. There was a tremor even in the strong man's voice, as he grasped her little hand with a "God bless you, child!"And Alice said to her husband that night, - "I had no thought the child could get such a hold on my heart." They knew nothing of Florie's history previous to the time she came with her old friend to their house. Madeline, with singular prudence, had never told the   FLORENCE LAMBERT.       135 story to others, and, indeed, rarely mentioned it to Florence herself. Poor Floy was bound in Doubting Castle. The length of her chain allowed her to go of errands, eat when she could be spared, and at nine o'clock in the evening trudge, as best she might with her over- wearied feet, back to the little room, scarce more than closet, where she slept, and whither Jenny came perhaps two hours later, after a visit from the young clerk, or going with him to a concert. Jenny did not mean to be unkind; but with her new articles of dress, her letters home, and chiefly her lover, her mind was full. Florence was a shy, reserved, sensitive child, used to the constant out- pouring of love unsolicited; and she might long for itiin secret with bitter tears, but could not ask it. So her life went on for two years; and then Jenny gave up her situation, to keep house for the young gentleman with black eyes, and said "good by"   to FPloy, adding, - "Come and see me when you get leave to go out.' "When might that time come?" thought Floy sad- ly. "And what use would it be to go there if she could? But she said only, "Good by!"   136  -LORENCE LAMBERT. CHAPTElR   IV. Rich and poor felt love and blessing From the gracious season fall; Joy and plenty in the cottage, Peace and feasting in the hall, And the voices of the children Ringing clear above it all. Miss Procter. IT was Christmas Eve. The stars twinkled in the dark blue sky, but the weather was unusually cold for the season. The week previous there had been a light fall of snow, followdd by a heavy rain; and the streets presented that delectable variety of mud, ice, and snow, termed, in New York provincialism; Slush!" Still, they had been thronged all day; for, as every one knows, weather and travelling are at this time trifling considerations. The picture-stores opened their long vistas of fairy- land, almost rivalled by the china and glass in near neighborhood, while jewels flashed and sparkled, and silver ware, polishLtd to the highest point, presented to the passer-by a multitude of tiny mirrors. Books in their holiday dress, blue and gold, scarlet, rich brown, green, and that deep, soft shade of purple aptly called plum-color, made for many the most at- tractive display. The dry-goods counters were heaped with "the newest importations." The soft cashmeres and thibets, rich silks in all the variety of plaid,   FLORENCE LAMBERT.       137 striped, figured, and plain, mingled with the dark grounds and bright flowers of French prints and mousseline-de-laines, forming a mosaic charming to feminine eyes. Thoughtful-browed gentlemen were pricing dolls and rocking-horses, rubber kittens and elephants, crying babies and mimic ships, with a puzzled expression amusing to see; while, with the more fortunate specimens of man-dom, whose wives accompanied them, frequent side-consultations indi- cated that, even in minor (?) matters, it is not good for man to be alone." Huge packages of burnt almonds, cocoa-nut cakes, and all the indefinite multitude termed by the little folks "goodies," by the doctors "trash," protruded from many an overcoat pocket, and queer-shaped parcels loaded many a strong pair of arms. All mingled as in a confused dream before the weary little errand-girl. All day the childish feet had been pressed into service. The thin arms ached with carrying bundles. The slight frame shivered, and to the hungry little one even the bakery win- dows showed a feast fit to have been bestowed by angel hands. Several times she was nearly thrown off her footing by the heedless crowd. No one noticed her. Gen- tlemen pressed past her into the brilliantly-lighted stores, and others, having made their purchases, were hurrying to their warm firesides and well-spread tea- tables, made cheerful by the presence of happy wives and little ones, and seeming doubly so from the con- trast with the bleak streets.   g38     FLORENCE JLAM,..I Often, during the day, the friendless child had paused before the store windows, and, gazing at the beautiful tlings, forgotten the order, reiterated every time she had started on a fresh errand, to make  haste," and dreamed away the moments till startled by some one brushing against her, or a Christmas greeting in her ears ; not for her,--O, no,--but for sonle happy heart, nought thinking of the vague, wild yearning in the desolate little one's soul for some share in the general joy, some affection, some klinedly word. Take courage, poor little wanderer! He who was born on this night, a child and poor, will not forget thee! At last, in attempting to cross one of the busiest streets, her foot slipped on the ice which the darkness concealed, and, chilled and worn out as she was, she could not help herself in the least. She would have fallen heavily, and directly in the way of a pair of spirited horses coming rapidly around the corner; but a strong arm grasped her waist, and she was lifted carefully to the sidewalk, and carried into a grocery juSt at hand. The pleasant warmth partially revived the poor child, and she was able to answer the few questions her new' protector cared to ask. Very few they were, for he was in haste to relieve the child's sufferings, and thought he could best do it in his own home; so he only waited to ascertain that she had no friend who would be anxious on her account, no home worthy of the name, and he called a carriage, and took her to his own bright fire and bountiful table.   FLORENCE LAMBERT.       139 He was a young man, not more than twenty-three, but already a junior partner in one of the oldest and best established commercial houses in Philadelphia. His father had been a member of the same firm for many years, and only left it when removed from all earthly toil. His mother kept house for himn; and she, with his two younger sisters, comprised his family. Mrs. Lindsay was a gentle, thoughtful woman, of few words; but a spirit of genuine kindness and good will pervaded all she said and did. Anne Lindsay closely resembled her mother in character and tem- perament. Rosalie, the youngest of the family, as thoroughly imbued as the rest with good and true principles of life, manifested them in a different way. Lively and social, with native wit, and a happy facul- ty of always finding the bright side of things, she supplied the very element that might else have been lacking in the domestic circle. On this Christmas Eve, when the carriage stopped, Mr. Lindsay lifted the bewildered girl in his arms, and, carrying her into the cozy dining-room, deposited her in a low chair by the fire. "Mother," said he, "will you see to this stray lamb? Anne, dear, let's have the tea and toast in double-quick time. Rosalie, can you find one of the dresses you used to wear when you were mother's little girl?" "'I haven't discovered that I'm not that now," re- joined Rosalie, with a merry laugh, running off, *  *       v   "O      FLORENCE LAMBERT. however, to get the dress. In' a very few minutes she returned with a bright crimson mering, and a wide-awake curiosity on the subject of the new arrival. To all inquiries and wonderings, Mr. Lindsay re- plied pleasantly, but with unmistakable decision,-- "'Time for all things!' Questions by and by! NWhere did I find her? In the street; and that's enough to know such a night as this, till we get her comfortable. Then I'll tell you all about it." When the child had been warmed and fed, Mr. Lindsay fulfilled his promise; and Floy, nestled cozily in Anne's lap, told all she knew of her own life. The evening worship occurred at an early hour. The low and reverential tones of Edward Lindsay, as he read the Holy Word, .and perhaps a partial sense of its meaning, the quiet attention of all pres- ent, the perfect stillness in which they knelt, awa- kened in the child's 'breast a feeling of ,awe. When the silence was broken by the sacred words, "Our Father," she trembled with the recollection of that happy time when she had said those words with her faithful nurse, and, farther back, a vague, shadowy remembrance of kneeling at her mother's lap, and trying to repeat after her something. Was this it? She could not tell; but her soul was stirred. Mrs. Lindsay put -Floy to bed in a snug little room adjoining her own. Nor did she seek her rest without " tiptoeing" to the little sleeper's side, to see if she were really, fully comfortable. In the warmth   FLORENCE LAMBERT.       141 of her true, motherly heart, she bent, and lightly touched her brow, thinking of the angel-mother, per- haps hovering near. Floy's appearance the next morning, when  she came with Anne into the dining-room, quite  sur- prised the other members of the family. Happiness and a night's rest had wonderfully improved the child. Her hair, which, as Rosahe said," wouldn't look de- cent any way but curled," fell in its natural ringlets around her face and neck. Her large, dark eyes sparkled with animation. The bright crimson of her dress suited the clear brunette complexion, and her cheeks were slightly tinged with rose-color--" a prom- ise rather than performance," Anne remarked. The kindly hearts of Edward's mother and sisters anticipated his suggestion of keeping Florence with them always, or till they could restore her to her relatives. Mr. Lindsay advertised in the leading journals of our large cities, and tried every means in his power to convey tidings of the child to them, but without- success. Meanwhile Florie endeared herself more and more to every member of the family. Gradually they came to think of her only as their own. After two years passed amid such scenes and circumstances as had fallen to her sorrowful lot, serious faults were inevitable, and did not surprise her friends; and these were met with kindly forbearance and patient, deter- mined effort, :,iJ /1    "2      FLORENCE LAMBERT. Florence was always trzie. "And that's a great deal," Mrs. Lindsay quietly and justly remarked. She was capable of devoted affection and enthusi- astic gratitude; and all her better feelings were called into activity by the unvarying kindness she received. t   FLORENCE LAMBERT.        143 i i CHAPTER V. But upon thy youthful forehead Something like a shadow lies, And a serious soul is looking From thy earnest eyes. And to thee an answer cometh From the earth and from the sky; And to thee the hills, and waters, And the stars reply. J. G. TWhittier. JUNE'S earliest breath wafted to Florence a won- drous joy. To be in the country for the entire sum- mer! -The thought was so rapture-fraught that she could scarcely eat or sleep while the preparations were in progress.     She took her first lesson in the art of packing by Mrs. Lindsay's side.        She was surprised and charmed with her friend's ease in accomplishinrg the task.    She folded so    smoothly, arranged   with such nicety, and put so many things securely into so small space, instructing meanwhile Rosalie and Flor- ence, in her quiet, pleasant, motherly way.       Anne's skill nearly equalled her mother's; and her trunk was speedily filled, and she at hand to help the rest. When      the dinner-bell rang, all arrangements were completed.      The table was as usual;     nothing  had been forgotten or neglected in the excitement of get- ting ready; and     bustle, hurry, confusion, there had not been; for these never accompanied Mrs. Lind- say's movements.    "4    L FLORENCE LAMBERT. But if Florie had slept lightly before, she was doubly excited the last evening previous to leaving the city; and it was long after the clock had sounded the midnight hour that slumber 'brooded on her eye- lids. With the dawn she was up, and nearly dressed, when Mrs. Lindsay tapped at her door, with her gen- tle "Come, Florie!" Among the brightest faces, the most gladsome hearts, on board the pretty steamboat Clyde, as she left her moorings that fair morning, were those of the Lindsay group.  Florence, with her strong, earnest nature, her intense love of the beautiful, and wild, and free, her quick observation, and her appre- ciation, heightened by the past years of privation and pain, sat in a mute, deep rapture. There was inspi- ration for her in the clear blue sky, the sunshine dancing on the waves, the fresh, bracing air, and the picturesque shores. of the Delaw-Tare; the river itself, with the snowy-winged ships gliding calmly on its bosom, their starry flags waving in the breeze, while the lighter craft of sloop, barge, and pleasure-boat passed them with arrowy flight. There was a charm even in the motion of the boat, the roar of the machinery, the plashing of the wheels, and, more, in the changeful groupings of the human kaleidoscope before her. Rosalie talked and laughed with her usual gayety, sometimes wondering what kept Flora so still, but forgetting it sooner than she could have asked the question, as some new phase of the scenery they were   FILORENCE LAMBERT.      145 passing, or a little incident occurring on the boat, drew her attention, or reminded her of a story to tell. Anne's quiet, deep nature was more akin to Flo- ' rie's, and she enjoyed the scene in a similar way; although to her it was not, as to her adopted sister, an entirely new experience, - doubly bright because seen in contrast with the dark background of the past. Perhaps Mrs. Lindsay was the only one through whose pleasure ran an undertone of sadness. No word that might shadow, even for an instant, younger brows, was suffered to pass her lips. She sat look- ing on the beautiful prospect, enjoying it all, and still more the happiness of those around her. But Ed- ward and Anne read in the grave, calm brow, in the wistful expression of the clear, dark, earnest eyes, a thought of one who had erst been by her side on this same summer journeying.  It was not regret. It would not be just to call the feeling by that name; for she loved her husband with a self-sacrificing affec- tion that would not have called his pure and happy spirit back to gladden her earthly way; and more than this, she knew that no real separation had been, or could be, between the souls that God had joined. She was too well assured of his presence with her, the intercommunion of deepest feeling and thought yet their own, to be ever utterly lonely; but while the mortal remaineth, there lingereth earthly pain. God wipes all tears from the eyes of his children; 10   "6      FLORENrC'E LAMBER 2'. but it is in their everlasting home and His more manifest presence that tears come no more. It was a large, old-fashioned house, about a quarter of a mile from the steamboat landing, where our friends arrived in season for the twelve-o'clock dinner, Mr. Lindsay returning in the afternoon boat. During the season he came every Saturday, and remained until Monday, accompanied by a young gentleman, whom it has not been needful to men- tion earlier - Frank Wentworth, Anne Lindsay's accepted lover. Chief among the pleasures of a summer overflow- ing with enjoyment were the horseback rides on those bright Saturday evenings, starting immediately after the early tea, and returning about sunset, or, on moonlight nights, sometimes an hour later. Florie's gray linen travelling-dress had been provided with an extra skirt, sufficiently long for this purpose ; and with a few lessons from Mr. Lindsay, who was an expert horseman, and very fond of the exercise, she soon became a good rider, and entered into the sport with all her soul. Her enthusiasm was sufficiently grati- fying to her teacher, as milght be inferred from the pleased glance of his dark eyes, as they rested on her. There were sails on the river, too, huckleberry- ings, and picnics. There were pleasant Sabbaths, with the morning service at the village church, the quiet afternoon readings, the evening rambles in the   FLORENCE LA MBERT.       147 woods, gathering wild flowers, Tmoss, and scarlet checkerberries. For Anne, there were occasional trips into the city on Monday mornings, for her house was furnishing; and early in September the trunks were repacked, and the pleasant boat-ride retaken. IAnne Lindsay's twenty-first birthday dawned bright and beautiful; and her sisters arrayed her in bridal white, and twined the orange-flowers in her soft, brown hair. In her gentle loveliness she stood by Frank Wentworth's side, and with her hand resting in his, the solemn words were spoken that linked their destinies in one.  w.   "8       F;LO RENCE LAMBERT. CRtAPTER    VI. Standing with reluctant feet, Where the brook and river meet, Womanhood and childhood fleet! Like the swell of some sweet tune, Morning rises into noon, May glides onward into June. Longfellow. THE bride and bridegroom were on their way to' Niagara, and Rosalie and Florence resumed their school duties, The winter went quietly on, marked by no special event, unless the term be applied to the Christmas party and one glorious sleigh-ride, the mildness of -the season admitting only one. Anne's new home was so near her mother's that the family intercourse was scarcely lessened by her marriage.   Florence progressed rapidly in her studies, and formed pleas- ant acquaintanceships and a few real friendships. When she had entered school the previous winter, some of the girls stood somewhat aloof from her; but the earnest, truthful, independent way which characterized everything Rosahe said and did, made her a valuable champion where her feelings were en- listed. Besides, Florence was truly amiable and lady-like, honorable and generous. Her character, when her schoolmates began to learn it, won their respect and affection.   FLORENCE LAMBERT.       149 The second winter proved smooth sailing, and was followed by a summer as pleasant as the preceding a one, and passed in a similar way. The principal point of difference was the presence of a bright-eyed, living miniature of Anne, who somewhat lessened the number of her horseback rides, and completely superseded her berry gatherings, and recreations of a like nature, giving her instead the employment of drawing the little -lady in her own tiny carriage -a responsibility frequently and gladly assumed by Ro- salie and Florence; for Anne was in the country with the rest, Mr. Wentworth and Mr. Lindsay making their weekly visits as before.   . In September Florence returned to school, and Mrs. Lindsay commenced initiating Rosalie into what are aptly termed the "mysteries of housekeeping." In these the mother was thoroughly versed, and Anne had profited well by her instructions. Mrs. Went- worth's house was small, but a picture of order, neat- ness, and taste; and her table was always so well arranged, the food, plain though it was, so nicely cooked, that her husband never felt a secret throb of fear or doubt in inviting a friend home to dinner un- expectedly to her. Rosalie's active, restless nature could not easily bear confinement to books; and her inclinations were far better Suited when flitting with bird-like motion and bird-like song through the house, broom and duster in hand, or in a wide, checked apron, her sleeves tucked up, moulding bread or roll- ing pie-crust by her mother's side in the neat kitchen,   150      FLORENCE LAMBERT. while old Susie, who had been Mrs. Lmdsay's cook since Rosahe was a baby, looked on admiringly, and with hearty good will washed dishes, buttered tins, kept the oven hot, and made herself useful generally, chatting all the while in her peculiar way - a droll blending of respect and familiarity. "Ah, Miss Rosalie," she would often say, "I toasted the first piece of bread that ever went into your wee mouth. Your dear father, that's gone to heaven, came into the kitchen himself, and says to me, ' Susie, I want you to toast a piece of bread just the very nicest you can, for the baby; I'm going to feed her myself.' I'll venture a slice never was toasted better than that. I can see it now -just the brown, and not a speck burnt-none of your old- shoe concerns. I took it into the dining-room, and' there was Mr. Lindsay holding the wee thing on his knee; and he crumbed the toast into your silver cup, Miss Rosalie, as handy as any woman. How many times I've rubbed that cup and held it for the baby to see her face in it!  -Mrs. Lindsay took a genuine pleasure in teaching Rosalie, for whatever she did was done with her might; and she had a native talent for this branch of woman's peculiar sphere. She liked to prepare an oyster stew when Mr. Wentworth and Anne were coming in to tea. And on preserving days she was fully in her element. The great kettle of peaches, her favorite fruit, held for her a species of enchantment as potent in its own way, and more really useful,   FLORENCE LAMBERT.       151 than the magic cup of the fairy tale. It is possible that the theory and practice of household matters were the more easily acquired from the fact that a young friend of Rosahe had given her reason to suppose her capability in that direction would be put to the test of a new responsibility, and very much affect his personal comfort. But certainly Rosalie was very happy in helping her own kind, loving mother in making little arrangements about the house that increased her brother's comfort or gratified his taste, and preparing oftentimes a favorite dish for him. Then, after a few months' practice, she could go to sister Anne's and help her when her babe was worrisome and required all her time, or Anne was not very well, or she was preparing for company. Rosalie thus realized how deep and true is the delight springing from unselfish effort for others. When the Christmas cookery began, Anne was by Mrs. Lindsay's side as of old, for her little family must blend with her mother's at that high festival of love and sacred joy. Florence helped too, gladly; for the holidays commenced with the first of the week, Christmas coming on Thursday;   and  Rosahe said laughingly to her, as they washed currants and beat eggs, - "You are only getting a  wee bit of a taste now, Floy, of what mamma will put you into as soon as you leave school." "Your hard work doesn't seem to have worn upon you much, Rosalie," said a rich, manly voice at her side.   152      FLORENCE LAMBERT. Rosalie started and blushed. The girls had been alone in the dining-room the last ten minutes, Anne putting her baby to sleep, and Mrs. Lindsay having an errand to the kitchen. "Excuse me, young ladies," said Arthur Cameron, "for coming upon you so suddenly. I came in with Mr. Lindsay, which accounts for my not ringing the bell. I've brought you a note, Rosalie, from mother." "I think these eggs are beaten sufficiently," Flor- ence said to Rosalie; and bowl in hand she proceeded to the kitchen, leaving the dining-room to the lovers, where they remained for the next half hour in happy forgetfulness of such sublunary realities as mince, pumpkin, andchicken pies, till Mrs. Lindsay called,-- "Come, Rosalie, dear; I am ready to use the cur- rants." Christmas day came with a sunny sky, and mild,; pleasant air; with its multitude of gifts, in which all were remembered, from Mrs. Lindsay down to baby Anne; its gathering of bright faces and happy hearts around a bountiful table; its twilight music and even- ing dance. The holidays sped fast away, and the Lindsays re- sumed their accustomed routine. Early in the spring, Rosalie, on spending a day with her most intimate friend, Eva Jameson, was electrified with the infor- mation that the family were going into the country to live. A valuable estate on the North River had been bequeathed to Mrs. Jameson by a bachelor uncle, whose pet and favorite she had been from childhood;   FLORENCE LAMBERT.       153 15. and Mr.. Jameson's business being just at the time in such condition that he could easily and profitably close it, he deemed it best to do so. But Eva was pro- gressing so well in her studies, and so happy in her associations, that they felt very reluctant to with- draw her from them. She was a year or two younger than Rosalie, an only daughter in a family of five. The two girls had been playmates in their earliest childhood, and pursued their studies together. They were united by an affection true, deep, earnest. Rosalie returned home in a state of great excite- ment. She went directly to her mother's room, with- out laying aside her hood or cloak, and throwing her- self on a cricket at her feet, told her the story in a rapid, impetuous strain, concluding with, - Only think, mother, how I shall miss Eva!" Mrs. Lindsay affectionately soothed her, remind- ing her that Eva was not going far away, and could come at any time for a long visit. The next morn- ing, the Jamesons' removal formed the principal sub- ject of conversation at breakfast. Mr. Lindsay listened to Rosalie's regrets with a roguish twinkle in his eye, quite in opposition to the serious expression he tried to assume, and which did not escape his sister's notice, or fail to excite her in- dignation. When the meal was concluded, a sug- gestion he made to Rosalie quite reversed her feel- ings. She sprang from her chair, overturning the gray puss nestled down on the skirt of her dress, ta  clapped her hands, threw her arms around her broth-   154      FLORENCE LAMBERT. er's neck and kissed him; then darted from the room, saying,- "I must go and tell Eva this very minute!" "Was I not right, mother," said Mr. Lindsay, smiling, "to keep my proposition till we were through?  The thought occurred to me almost as soon as we began talking ; but I knew, if I mentioned it then, Rosalie would lose her breakfast." Mrs. Lindsay assented, adding, "I should think, Edward, that Rosalie's natural share of thoughtful- ness had passed over to you. She has so little -you so much. But you balance one another admirably." "We appreciate our birdie, I am sure of that," responded Edward, as he donned his overcoat; and putting his arm around his mother, he bent and kissed her; for Edward Lindsay, twenty-five though he was, was not too old for that. A blessing on his brave, manly heart! It never will be too old for an unfettered manifestation of home affections and sym- pathies in all their depth and pure tenderness. Much to the satisfaction of all" concerned, it was arranged that Eva should spend the summer at her new home, return to Philadelphia in the autumn, and board with the Lindsays while completing her school course.   ,- ft,-   ,        -.FLORENCE LAMBERT.       155 J .   CHAPTE R    VII. We are but one remove from heavenly birth; Let heavenly truth be on our lip and brow! Let us be free-- let not the dust of earth W veigh down the white wings of our spirits now. Grace Greenwood. CHTrEnILY passed the following year; and when Eva left school, the last of May, Rosalie went home with her for a long visit.   Florence, too, was in- vited; but she thought it best to go with Mrs. Lind- say, as usual. She took upon herself double duty in Rosalie's absence.  Her kind   helpfulness toward Anne, now the mother of two lovely children, and her. affectionate waiting upon Mrs. Lindsay, drew their hearts yet closer to her. And for one member of the family it may at least be said that he thought his kindness to the friendless little errand-girl already more than repaid. Rosalie came home at Christmas, bringing Eva with  her, to stay till after the wedding festivities, which were anticipated for the first of June. "A  penny for your thoughts, Floy!" sang Rosalie, as she tripped into the dining-room in the gathering twilight of a 'February day, and  found Florence sit- ting in an easy chair, looking thoughtfully into the fire. She started, and her color heightened for a mo- ment ;but presently she said, - "I   was thinking,  Rosalie, about leaving school next spring."   156      F'LORENCE LAMBERT. "Well, what then?" responded Rosalie merrily. "You'll have some good times when you've no les- sons to hinder your going to parties and concerts, and by and by somebody -" "No, no, Rosalie; please don't! I was not think- ing of any such thing, but of earning my own sup- port. I could teach a school if I could get one; or I might give lessons in drawing." "I imagine you won't do any such thing," Rosalie answered with a good-natured positiveness of tone. "You've not had mamma's course of lessons yet, and you need not think to escape them," she added, arch- ly. "She's as inevitable as one of the Fates." Eva came in at this moment, and the subject was changed. The next day, Mrs. Lindsay, the first time 'she found Florence alone, sat down by her side, and, pass- ing her arm around her, drew her down upon her bosom, and asked, - "What has set you to worrying yourself, dear, about keeping school? Have we failed to be truly mother, brother, and sister to you?" "O, no! dear mother, no!"Florence returned, quickly and earnestly. You are all kindness to- ward me, all of you; but it seems to me only right that I should support myself as soon as it is possible." "My daughter,"-Mrs. Lindsay's voice was low and very tender, - "let me assure you that to all of us you are wholly as our own. WArhat is not ex- Fected of Rosalie is not expected or desired of you.   FLORENCE LAMBERT.      157 Our circumstances are not such as to render anything i   of the kind needful; and you share our home, as you do our hearts' affection -freely. You are a price- less blessing, Florie, to all of us. For worlds we would not let you go from us, unless a friend nearer than all others should claim you. Do not let such thoughts trouble you again, darling. What do you suppose I am to do for some one to help me keep house, when Arthur takes Rosalie away?" Grateful tears sprang to Florie's dark eyes, and the matter was allowed to rest. Don't you think, Anne," said Rosalie, a few days after, "Florie wanted to teach school, or give draw- ing lessons, or some such thing?" "For what reason?" inquired Mrs. Wentworth. "O, nothing in particular, only that she thought she ought to support herself. You should have seen Edward's eyes when I told him of it. Yet, for all,  he wouldn't say a word to her himself. But mamma -2:  spoke for all of us, and set Florie's heart at rest." 5=   "I am glad she did; I think it was the best way," replied Mrs. Wentworth. "By the way, Florence draws wonderfully: does she not?" Giod  "Yes. Did Edward tell you, Anne, he showed her crayon copy of Raphael's Madonna della Seggi- ola, that she gave to mother last Christmas, to Arthur, and he asked him to let him invite that young artist he thinks so much of to come in and see it? What is his name, Anne? I never can recollect it." "Ferdinand Moncriefe."   158      FLORENCE LAMBERT. "O, yes! Well, he came in with Arthur a day or two afterwards, and Edward showed him the picture. He was enraptured. He said Florence ought to go to Italy and study the old masters, and she would be- come a world-renowned woman - and I don't know what not. He must be introduced to her, and, of course, Edward could do no less than invite him to stay to tea with Arthur; and they stayed. He seemed as much pleased with Florence herself as the picture, if I am any judge; but she took his admiring glances very coolly, and entertained Arthur till she quite ex- cited my jealousy. Two or three evenings after, we met Moncriefe at Jenny Stanwood's birthday party. He paid Florie marked attention, and the next day sent her a splendid bouquet. By the way, you know Edward is passionately fond of flowers. Well, he only said, 'Yes, it is very beautiful,' in as quiet a tone as if I had said the tea-biscuits were good. He did not seem to care anything about it; nor did Florence either, for that matter. But- where was I? O! pretty soon he called again; and next he asked her to ride, and she wouldn't go. What else may have been said I don't know; but he has stopped coming, and Edward seems to feel more comfortable - though it may be only my surmise, for he says nothing about it." "Ferdinand Moncriefe is a very worthy young man; so my husband thinks, and he has known him from boyhood," remarked Mrs. Wentworth. "Yes, and so-does Arthur. They were room-mates for two years, you know."   i           FLORENCE LAMBERT.      159 "Frank says he is a man of rare talent, and of a to  very amiable disposition. His personal appearance is above the usual order, and I do not see what objec- tion Florie could have to him. He is poor, but he is industrious, persevering, and prudent; and Florence has too much principle to set aside a man she likes, on account of straitened circumstances." "I know that, and I don't understand it. I should have thought them mutually fortunate if she had en- couraged him. But, Anne, I cannot make Edward out either. He is as much a puzzle as Florie; more, because he is older, and has been out in the world so long. The man must know that some time he will need a wife and home of his own; but he never seems to think of it, or to care for one woman more than another. I have been hoping all winter that he would see what a lovely girl Eva is, and that by and by we should have her for a sister. But they haven't either one a thought of the other, I know -not a single thought." "O, well, Rosalie, time enough yet. Don't, for the sake of all that is good, ever put your finger into what is called match-making! Those who live in true acknowledgment of the Lord are led by him in all things; certainly not least in that which forms s:; the holiest relation in life. And the responsibility ig - of a single word tending to influence the destiny of another in this most important direction is very seri- a  ous, and not to be lightly assumed." jt   "Yes, Anne, that is true, I know," answered Ro-   160      FLORENCE LAMBERT. salie, seriously; "and because I have felt this in a degree, though not before seeing it so clearly as I do now that you have pointed it out to me, I have re- frained from any word or act that might influence either party. They do not know that I have thought of it; nor does Florie. I have mentioned it only to mother and yourself." "You're not going before tea, surely?" said Anne, as her sister rose and took .up her cloak, which was thrown over a chair by the fire. "O, I cannot stay to-night," returned Rosalie. "It would hardly be polite to Eva. I hurried round here while she was writing a letter home, because I had not seen you alone for some weeks, and I would not mention these things at any other time. You will come in to-morrow, shall you not?" "Yes, dear, if we are all well, and the weather is pleasant. It looks now like rain." "Good night." And with a kiss Rosalie tripped away.   FLORENCE LAMBER T.      161 CHAPTER   VIII. Sweet April! many a thought Is wedded unto thee, as hearts are wed; Nor shall they fail, till, to its autumn brought, Life's golden fruit is shed, Longfellow. APRIL had come, with its showers and sunshine. One day, at recess, Florence was standinig in a little group of girls, busily talking, when one of them said, as an allusion was made to her leaving school, - "O, Floy! why have you not told us that you are to have a double wedding in your family?  It is hardly fair that we should hear it first from out- siders." "What do you mean?" asked Florence, her cheek crimsoning, but honest in her inquiry. "Are you in earnest? Don't you know really?" "No; certainly I do not!" "It is strange I Then it must be a mistake. Of' course you know Mr. Lindsay's engagement to Miss Jameson has been talked about these two months. Well, I have had it from two or three sources that he was to be married at the same time with his sister." For a moment Florie's lips were compressed, and her face was very pale. But recovering herself di- rectly, she said quietly, XI 11-   162      FLORENCE LAMBERT. "I know nothing of it, and I think I should have been informed if it were so." Yes, Florence knew this very well. Her friends had never given her reason to expect aught but kind- ness and consideration from them.  She did not doubt them; she knew it could not be. Why, then, had her cheek paled at the thoughtless words? She was for the moment surprised and be- wildered; and in that instant a fact was revealed to her consciousness. That one mighty love which decides the destiny of woman for weal or woe, had been born in her spirit while she knew it not, and through the years of her dawning womanhood had been growing, deepening, strengthening, in silence and secrecy. The thought of her friend's union with another unrolled before her mental vision a scroll as yet wholly unread. Alone, in the silence of night, she read it, with tears and trembling, but with womanly resolution. Rapidly, she reviewed the four years passed beneath that roof. Mr. Lindsay's manner toward her had never changed, save that, as time passed on, he, like the rest, manifest- ed more of affectionate familiarity.' She thought of Mrs. Lindsay's' question, "Have we failed to be truly mother, brother, and sister to you?"They had not, indeed. But what would it be to have Edward bring another there, and, ask her to welcome that one also to sisterhood? Florence had a strong will; the germ of resolute purpose and silent endurance lay hidden in her soul,   FLORENCE LAMBERT.        163 awaiting only the force of circumstances fully to de- velop its power.  At .the first touch of trial, her ,spirit aroused to act truly and firmly a woman's part in life, whatever of effort or suffering might be in- volved. i3i     164      FLORENCE LAMBERT. CHAPTER   IX. As the earth with sea is bounded, And the winter-world with spring, So a maiden's life is rounded With a golden wedding-ring. Gerald Massey. JUNE, with its glorious sunshine and fragrant flow- ers, breathed its pure blessing on the earth. The bright Sabbath morning, flooding the quiet old church with glory, seemed a meet time for entrance into the holiest of human relations, the marriage union. A lovely bride was Rosalie, as she knelt in her white dress and flowing veil, the myrtle crown resting on her fair brow, and laid her hand in that of one truly worthy the trust of her young heart. The bride and bridegroonm were accompanied on their wedding-journey by Florence, Eva, and Fred Cameron, a younger brother of Arthur. They were absent about four weeks, stopping on their return route at River-side, the home of Eva, and leaving her there, after a delightful visit, which was prom- ised at the time of:the wedding, Mr. and Mrs. Jameson having beenrmong the guests, for the Cam- eron, Jameson, and Lindsay families were all old friends. The first weekl in October found Rosalie settled at housekeeping, and very happy in her new home. With Christmas came Eva, in acceptance of her   FLORENCE LAMBERT,       165 friend's urgent invitation, to stay with her till the spring opened. In this visit a new and golden thread was wrought into the woof of Eva Jameson's life. Fred Cameron had evidently been much attracted by Florence on the journey of the previous summer; but meeting no encouragement from her, like a wise man foreseeing the evil, he put a strong rein upon his feelings ere they had obtained the mastery of his happiness. He was, of course, thrown much in Eva's company during her stay at his brother's house, and his affections became deeply interested. When she returned home in April, Fred Cameron escorted her as her accepted suitor. With this result Rosahe was highly delighted. But, as she told her sister, Florence puzzled her more and more. Beautiful and talented, she met with much attention in company. Truly high-principled and very amiable, she drew to her side the really worthy among the young men. True, manly hearts would gladly have offered their best treasures to her accept- ance, had she permitted; talent, wealth, and station would have been laid at her feet. But she met all advances with the same marked, though polite, in- difference. She had a difficult task to perform - to treat Mr. Lindsay with her wonted kindness and familiarity, and yet reveal no more than grateful sisterly affec- tion; to wear a constant restraint, like an invisible chain, while seeming in perfect freedom. Yet so fully did she succeed as completely to veil her deepest feelings.   166      FLORENCE LAMBERT. But love interprets love. That disciple who received so much of the divine benison that his words seem replete with life drawn from the very heart of the Almighty, long ago wrote,--- "Every one that loveth is born of God, and know- eth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love." And it is doubtless the experience of every regen- erating soul, that when a Redeemer's love is permitted to flow into the life, and received as its own, then first Jehovah is known as He really is. It is only in His love, received as the all-pervading, governing princi- ple of daily life, that we can, here or hereafter, see His face. The same rule which applies to the relation of the human soul to its God, reaches down to spiritual affinities brought into earthly relationships. It was early summer. The Lindsay family were at Chestnut Lodge, their accustomed resort. One Saturday afternoon, Edward came as usual, but with an unusual communication. Soon after his arrival he said,- "Our firm have concluded that it will be a great advantage to our business, if not a necessity, for one of the company to go to Europe the coming autumn. They wish me to go; and as I am junior partner, I think myself it would be best for the others to remain. I would rather not assume so much the responsibility of conducting the business, as would devolve upon me, were either of them to be absent so long."   FLORENCE LAMBERT.      167 Florence grew very pale, and a look of intense pain passed over her face. It was but an instant ere   she recovered her composure, and she soon afterwards :f found an excuse to leave the room. When she came to the tea-table, no sign of agitation was visible. But in that momentary lifting of the veil, Edward Lindsay had read what satisfied him that he had at least a right to speak. Immediately after tea, he asked her to walk with him. Florence tied on her hat, threw a light shawl over her shoulders, and they passed out from the grassy lawn in front of the house, down the avenue of chestnut trees which gave the place its name, to the road that lay along the bank of the Delaware. The evening star was just rising over the water. Florie, dearest," said Edward, passing his arm around her, and drawing her to his side, "look up, and tell me if you can read in that twinkling gem an emblem of what lies deepest in my love, and thought, and life. Such has your image been to me, Flor- ence, through years of trustful waiting. Such may your love be to me forever, if you will permit it, -     the star of my life, cheering, guiding, strengthening, leading thought and affection heavenward. Can you give me that love, Florie?" 'rlThe hope, hidden long and well, was fulfilled. 3r  Florence trembled like a leaf; but she laid her hands in Edward Lindsay's, and for the first time lifting her eyes to his face with all the woman's soul in their depths, gave him in reply one low-toned, true, ear- nest word.   168      FLORENCE LAIBERT. "Florie, darling, I have loved you thus a long, long time. But I compelled myself to wait, and controlled my feelings strongly, that you might not suspect their real nature, - denied myself the mani- festations in word and tone, act and look, which were almost continually pressing to come forth, -to wait till you had fully reached your womanhood, and others had sought you, as I knew they would, that you might know your own heart's desire, whatever it might be, - that I might guard you from all mistake, shield you even from myself; for I would not take you to brighten my home and heart without a certainty that you could be truly happy with me -that your love was the woman's, not the child's,' and would find no future development that might cause a regret for this hour. "O, Florie, think you not I have had some trial in standing by, outwardly so calm, while others were pressing to obtain that which I valued most of all earthly blessings, which I yearned to call my own in time and eternity? Will you believe I loved you truly that I could do this - that my love was strong enough to bear the test?" And Florence told him all her soupls secret - the deep love "cherished in silence from the moment of its revelation to her consciousness till this blessed hour, that gave it right and power of utterance - the vigi- lant guard she had kept over herself -the hope, and prayer, and tearful night-watch that hitherto no mor- tal knew.   FLORENCE LAMBERT.      169 "Will you go with me, loved one, across the deep waters? I must go; and I would gladly take you with me, if you can go of your own free choice. But I would not ask you to do that which may be painful or unpleasant to you. I have liberty to extend the time of absence sufficiently to allow of going to France and Italy, though we should have to make a hasty trip; but we might concentrate the time upon the objects of most interest to us. Think of it, dear, as long as yoh wish. I shall claim this little hand as soon as I return, if not permitted to do so before; but you kn6w my preference, provided it meet your will." "I can as well answer you at this moment, Ed- ward, as at any future time,"' Florence said frankly. "I cannot think of parting with you, even for a few months, without pain; and the idea of going to Eu- rope is in itself a very pleasant one to me. It was the air-castle of my childhood. And with you the enjoyment would be trebled. But, Edward, mother needs me, now that Anne and Rosalie are at house- keeping. It would be ungenerous, unkind, ungrate- ful to leave her. She has been the best of mothers :!   to me, as well as yourself." "Yes, Florie, I adm'it all this, on the supposition that she would thus be left alone. But I think it can be arranged that Anne or Rosalie should come to our Some, and stay with mother while we are away. Something must be done as regards the house, you know. At any rate, if you have no other objection% I will soon ascertain the facts in the case." 'Ra   -170     FLORENCE LAMBERT. The twilight deepened into night as they stood in the old, vine-wreathed porch again. The birds were still in their nests, the hum of insects ceased, and the only sound that broke the silence was the plash of waves, while in the dark-blue heaven that star rode high and clear--a true symbol of the holy joy, the pure blessing, that should crown their wedded love and life. '   FLORENCE, LAMBERT.         171 CHAPTER X. O, blessed Bird that soars and sings, And moves in heaven on triumphing wings, Then drops to rest Within my breast, And aye some balm of blessing brings! O, Flower of mine, Life's stream may start Thy trembling leaves, but cannot thwart Love's calm below, Where wed roots grow In twin strength, smiling heart to heart. O, crest of beauty on my brow I O, light of love upon my prow! To the death-dark I row my bark; You gild with glory as we go. Gerald Massey. SEPTEMBER, in its ripened beauty, crowned the earth  with gladness.  It was the   anniversary of Anne's wedding; and as she knelt to arrange the flowing skirt of Florie's rich dove-colored silk, her thoughts, glad and grateful, flew   back to that hour, and over the intervening years. "Only think, Anne," said Rosalie in exultant tones, while she twined the orange-flowers among the bride's luxuriant curls, and fastened her veil, "how    well it has all come about--just what I so much desired! So differently, but so much    better than  I thought, when I built my air-castles, and called them   golden! Eva for a sister, and Florie too!" "Yes, dear," said Anne     gently. "The leadings I }t-   172      FLORENCE LAMfBERT. of our heavenly Father's hand are better than our childish fancies." An answering chord thrilled in Florie's soul. A quick, joyous response was in her eyes as they met Anne's. The door opened at the moment, and Ed- ward came to her side. Half an hour later they knelt at the altar. The solemn vows were breathed, the marriage emblem placed on the bride's finger, the love of true hearts consecrated in the most holy act of life. Well may those who are approaching the nuptial shrine first pause with trembling, ere they seek at God's own hand a seal of their affection and their purpose - pause, and prove their hearts, that they may know if they are, in that affection and that purpose, blame- less before Jehovah! Let not self-seeking in any form pervert this most sacred of ties. Let it not be entered lightly! For great as is the blessing, so great is the woe, if there be perversion. Let them remember that "what God hath joined cannot be separated, here or hereafter: what He hath not joined cannot be kept together/" Edward and Florence were married the ninth of the month. Eva had chosen the eleventh for her bridal, to insure their presence, as the steamer was to sail a few days later. It was Mr. and Mrs. Jameson's desire to have their only daughter remain with them. Mr. Jameson was doing a good busi-   FLORENCE LAMBERT.      173 ness in New York, going into the city in the morn- ing, and returning home at night. Fred Cameron had a clerkship in a highly respectable mercantile house in Philadelphia, with a prospect of ultimately becoming a partner. But it was the wish of his father-in-law that he should go into business in New York city, in order to make his home at River-side. Fred's business year extended to the first of April, and Mr. Jameson thought that in the intervening time he could find a place for him in New York equally good. Fred consented to engage board for himself and wife during the winter, allow the experi- ment to be tried, and, if it proved successful, give up his situation in the spring, after giving timely notice. But at this juncture Mr. Wentworth made an offer which was gladly accepted. When Mr. Lindsay and his bride sailed, Mr. Wentworth's family removed to Anne's old home, and his house was rented to Fred Cameron for six months, furniture and carpets re- maining, as they were. This arrangement proved highly satisfactory to all parties. Eva was delighted with the opportunity of keeping house, especially as she found everything ready at her hand, and declared her preference for housekeeping above boarding in no measured terms.   174      FLORENCE LAMBER T. CHAPTER XL One by one Are [Life's] secrets told; One by one, Lit by the rays of the morning sun, Shall a new flower its petals unfold, With the mystery hid in its heart of gold. Miss Procter. FERDINAND MONCRIEFE had been a year in Italy, studying his art, with promise of rare success. At Rome he met) Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay, according to previous arrangement; for he had maintained a regu- lar correspondence with Arthur Cameron since the time of his leaving home. With thoughtftl kind- ness he had engaged lodgings, and made every pro- vision needful for the comfort of his friends. The evening passed in very pleasant conversation, in the course of which he mentioned an acquaintance he had formed on the passage from England. "The channel was unusually rough," he said; "though why I should have been sick after having become accustomed to the water, I don't knoy - but so it was. I was unable for several days to raise my head from my pillow. This gentleman, though an' entire stranger, showed me the utmost kindness, nursing me as one would a child. When I grew better, he carried me in his arms -to the deck; and till I was perfectly recovered, did everything in his power for my relief and amusement. He has been a   FLORENCE LAMBERT.       175 great traveller, and said laughingly that he thought he might safely defy old Neptune to make him feel faint. A very warm friendship has sprung up be- tween us, and I hope it will be lasting as life. He is now in Rome, and intends remaining through the winter. "A few evenings since, a still, moonlight night, we were rambling in the Campagna, towards Lake Albano, when he told me the story of his life. "It is a very sad one, and fully accounts for the deep gravity of his face when he is not engaged in conversation, which I had often noticed, wondering as to the cause. I thought he must have some secret sorrow. "Fifteen years ago, he brought his young wife to these shores, as a last resort, in the hope to recover her failing health, -but only laid her down in the lovely spot where we stood when he first told me of her. Her resting-place is his chief attraction here; for the image of herself, as he told me, that she left him, his only child, was separated from him in one awful night. The home-bound vessel was lost. He knew only that she with her nurse reached the shore in the life-boat. It went three times in safety, and returned to take all that were left on board, himself, the cap- tain, and three others. This time the boat capsized in the gale. But of those five brave men who faced the last degree of peril for others' sake, not one was lost. A French sailing vessel picked them up; but the waves were so high, and the darkness so thick,   176      FLORENCE LAMBER T. that nothing could be seen from the shore, and there was no safety for the ship in attempting any move- ment. My friend was the only one of the five who could speak the French language. The extreme ten- sion of his mental and physical faculties had proved too much for a frame not naturally strong, and his state of unconsciousness gave place only to the delir- ium of fever. In a French hospital he slowly re- covered. Immediately upon his convalescence he took passage home, and commenced the search for his child, perseveringly continued through many years; and even now he cannot wholly relinquish the hope, slender as it is, of finding her. Ah, I have not mentioned his name - how stupid in me! It is Cas- simer Lambert. But my dear Mrs. Lindsay Florence was leaning back in her chair, her face very pale, her eyes fixed on Moncriefe, while she lis- tened to his words with almost breathless interest. Her husband sprang to her side, and Ferdinand in- stantly poured out a glass of water, and brought it to her. She took it, and thanked him; then said smil- ingly to her husband, - "Do not be alarmed--I am not sick. It was only a sudden faintness, and has passed off." Moncriefe soon took leave, after inviting his friends to call at his studio the next morning, when he would accompany them to the Vatican. As soon as he left, Mr. Lindsay sat down by Flor- ence, and, passing his arm around her, drew her head down upon his shoulder, and said, -   FLORENCE LAMBERT.      1" "What was it, Florie?" "Do you think, dear," she asked, " that it could be my father?" "I do not know," Mr. Lindsay answered. "The coincidence is, to say the least, very remarkable, especially the name. You are certain in regard to your maiden name, are you not, Florie?" "Yes," she replied. "I well recollect Madeline's telling me of that frequently, and charging me not to forget it. And I have now a handkerchief that she marked with my name in full. I know that my mother was laid to rest far away from home, and that Madeline supposed my father had soon followed her. I have a dim remembrance of a wild, terrible night at sea; but it is like a fitful dream. I have no clear recollection of anything previous to going to Wilmington with my nurse. I know that I lived in some beautiful place with father and mother--but where? May it not indeed have been Italy?" "It may have been. But, my wife, do not build too much on this hope. It may be but a fancy. Or there may be no means of proving any tie, even if we find reason to think one exists." "Yes, I see that clearly." "Ferdinand knows nothing of your history, except that my mother adopted you in early girlhood?" "No. I wonder if it is best to tell him our conjec- ture, and its grounds, and let him communicate it to his friend." "Perhaps so; but we are in a state of too much 12   178      FLORENCE LAMBERT. excitement just now to think clearly, or determine wisely. Let us waive a decision till to-morrow." The next morning, Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay found their way to Moncriefe's studio without difficulty, as his directions had been minute, and it was but a little distance. They had decided to take him into confi- dence, allow him to communicate with his friend, and if the latter were so disposed,-introduce him to them. But others were in the studio, and there was no op- portunity for anything but commonplace conversation before they proceeded to the Vatican. To Mr. Lindsay the hours passed in that fairy-land were among the most pleasant of his life, and Flor- ence was almost overwhelmed with delight. Her ardent, impulsive, enthusiastic nature, with her fond- ness for the art itself, fitted her for intense enjoyment of such scenes. And it was a peculiarity of her tem- perament to enter with her whole soul into the pres- ent, letting past and future take thought for them- selves. "The dominant wave of feeling effaced, for the time, all traces of the preceding one." Three hours had flown almost unconsciously, when Mr. Lindsay bethought himself, and looked at his watch. Instantly apologizing to Moncriefe for hav- ing detained him so long, he turned to speak to his wife. At that moment Ferdinand said, - "There is my friend, of whom I told you. I must,   FLORENCE LAMBER T.      17-9 introduce him. It will detain you but a moment, and I can then bring him to call upon you." Before Mr. Lindsay could reply, Ferdinand had left his side. The gentleman was standing before the picture of the Entombment, gazing upon it in- tently. He was tall and rather slender, slightly bowed, and his dark hair was thickly sprinkled with gray; but the fire of manhood's prime yet glowed in his eyes, and the broad, full brow bore the stamp of a vigor- ous intellect. "Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay, allow me to present to you my friend in need, Mr. Lambert." Mr. Lindsay offered his hand, which was cordially taken. But when the stranger looked into Mrs. Lindsay's face, a strong tremor passed through his frame; another instant, and he had fainted. Mr. Lindsay caught him in his arms, Florence took out her vinaigrette, and Ferdinand went for water. In a few moments Mr. Lambert's consciousness seemed to be returning, and Florence glided away, followed by her husband. Ferdinand called a carriage, and returned with his friend to his lodgings, evading for the time his in- quiries. After resting a few minutes in his room, Mr. Lam- bert said, - "My thoughts are so confused, I cannot unravel them. Have I been asleep? I seem to have had a dream-a beautiful dream. I thought my wife was near me,"   180      FLORENCE LAMBER'T. "I introduced to you, sir, some friends of mine from America, Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay. On offering your hand to the lady, you fainted. You probably saw or fancied some strong resemblance in her face to your departed wife." Mr. Lambert sat silent a little time, his hand pressed upon his brow, as if in deep thought. Then he asked, - "What do you know of this lady previous to her marriage?" "Nothing, sir, of her childhood or her relatives. She was adopted by Mr. Lindsay's mother. She is a high-pritmipled, amiable, and talented woman." Mr. Lambert laid his hand on his friends, and said earnestly,- "Ferdinand, am I wild? Clan she be my daugh- ter? My little Florie, if living, is just about her age." "I cannot say, sir, but that it may be. Florence is the lady's Christian name. I will bring Mr. and lMrs. Lindsay-here, if you desire it, or go with you to their rooms, at any time that you feel able to bear the fatigue and excitement." "I can b,ear that, at this moment, better than sus- pense," Mr. Lambert said, withl an impetuosity of tone which Ferdinand had never before known him use. "Let me know if my daughter is near me." In half an hour the father and daughter, so long and strangely separated, .met. But the hours of life's deepest experiences are veiled from mortal   FLORENCE LAMBERT.        181 eyes. Suffice it to say, every vestige of doubt as to the identity of the parties passed away when Mr. Lambert placed in Mr. Lindsay's hand the cherished miniature of his wife. It might have been taken for Florence herself, so perfect was the resemblance of feature and expression. Mrs. Lindsay's tears fell fast, as her mother's eyes looked into her own.   182       FLORENCE LAMBERT, CHAPTER XII. I know, dear heart, that in our lot May mingle tears and sorrow; But Love's rich rainbow's built from tears To-day, with smiles to-morrow. The sunshine from our sky may die, The greenness from Life's tree; But ever 'mid the warring storm Thy nest shall sheltered be. Gerald Massey. FLORENCE LINDSAY sits in her cosy dining-room, awaiting her husband's return from his business. But she is not alone.  By her side is a wicker cradle, with its tiny occupant, wrapped in the slumber that falls only from the wings of the children's angels; and in her lap is a bright, beautiful boy, whose lux- uriant curls the sunbeams of three summers have gilded, and whose large, dark, thoughtful eyes are a reproduction  of his mother's.   Nor are these all. In an easy-chair, drawn to the warmest corner, sits her father, looking fondly on the lovely home-picture before him, thinking, perhaps, as well he may, that it is worth all the foreign collections of rare paintings that he has visited. His silvery-threaded hair, his bowed form, and the deep lines on his forehead, be- token grief rather than years; but the sorrow seems more of the past than present. The expression of his face is that of perfect contentment and quiet trust. Mrs. Lindsay, Senior, resides with Anne, whose   FLORENCE LAIBER T.      183 pleasant home and that of Rosalie are in near neigh- borhood. The morrow will bring all their families together in the old home. Little feet will patter on its floors, young eyes sparkle with delight, childish voices ring with the sweetest of earthly music! Ten years have passed since the Christmas Eve that turned a new and bright leaf in Floy's young life.    
         
       
   
