
    ----CITATION----
        Moore, H. J., Mrs.. The Golden Legacy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7276
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE GOLDEN LEGACY: 
               A Story of Life's phases. 
             
            BY A LADY. 
             
               
                  "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them."
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               D. APPLETON AND COMPANY,  
                     346 & 348 BROADWAY. 
                  
               
             
            M.DCCC.LVII. 
             
            ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by D. APPLETON & CO., in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. Old Paul Brown-Lonny-Childhood's dark hours-The snow-balling-Nettie, the little mediator-Death's shadow, 1
                
               CHAPTER II. Mark Atherton, Esq.-His wife and Aunt Lottie-Their contrast-Aunt Lottie's secret-Lonny's errand-The mission-The death-scene-The mystery, 12
                
               CHAPTER III. Uncle Joseph's visit-The little protg-Domestic tte-tte-Nurse Walton-Uncle Joseph's departure-Daisyside-Henrietta-The orphan's home, 20
                
               CHAPTER IV. Mark's reverie-Aunt Lottie's secret revealed-The conjugal interview-The wife's injustice-The rebuke-Melville Thornton-Happy recognition-Mark's approval, 32
                
               CHAPTER V. The announcement at Daisyside and its reception-Great preparations at Clifton-An unwelcome arrival-Aunt Lottie and Henrietta-A mother's parting gift-The surprise wedding, 44
                
                
               CHAPTER VI. Willow Glen-A pleasant surprise-The old homestead-The mother's legacy, 56
                
               CHAPTER VII. Ladies' Benevolent Society-Gossip-A peep through the key-hole-Rev. Mr. Flint-Miss Priscilla-Her description of true benevolence and its application, 63
                
               CHAPTER VIII. Thanksgiving-The invitation-Mrs. Atherton's decision-The guests' welcome-Mrs. Atherton's taunts-The pauper foundling-Arrival of Aunt Lottie and "her grand husband"-"Blind man's buff"-The recording angel-Significance of Thanksgiving at Daisyside, 75
                
               CHAPTER IX. Time's footprints-Lucille-Her orphanage-Maggie-The ruse, 88
                
               CHAPTER X. Judge Morton and his students-The package-Mammon worship-The party-First appearance of the heiress and her friend-The manuvering mother-The beautiful songstress-The heartless lover, 95
                
               CHAPTER XI. Confidential interview at Willow Glen-The scheming father-A ride into the country-Transcript of a son's heart-The heiress and her friend at Willow Glen-Mrs. Atherton and Nettie's visit, 106
                
               CHAPTER XII. Visit to Woodbine Lodge-Unexpected meeting of old friends-Lonny's welcome-A heart unveiled-The response, 115
                
               CHAPTER XIII. A scene in Mr. Thornton's library-Lonny's soliloquy-His vow-He goes to fulfil it-Unexpected meeting-The maiden's pledge-The encounter-The mother's wrath-The young man's prophecy, 125
                
                
               CHAPTER XIV. The dying girl-Love's confidence-The mother's promise-Hallucination-The frantic flight-The terrible awakening-The villain unmasked-Agnes's last hours-Startled conscience, 138
                
               CHAPTER XV. The burial-The desolate home-The search for relatives-The betrothal-Faithful Becky and her fortunate revelation, 151
                
               CHAPTER XVI. The minister at home-The pastoral visit-Lucille's "picture of our minister"-Pleasant remembrances-A quaint visitor-Charity-A call at the parsonage, 164
                
               CHAPTER XVII. The birthday congratulation-Richard's choice-The first light on his path-The golden rule, 178
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. The phantom shadow-Home influence-The fearful resolve-A pathetic appeal-Startling news-The promised visit-A word of hope, 187
                
               CHAPTER XIX. The hour of retrospection-Heart-revealings, 199
                
               CHAPTER XX. Young Morton's interview with Mr. Ashton-His unexpected success-Nettie Atherton's marriage settlement-A noble lover, 208
                
               CHAPTER XXI. Becky's discernment-A villain tolerated-New York visitors-Nettie suddenly becomes reconciled to her fate-The hypocrite answered-Mr. Ashton caught at last, 220
                
               CHAPTER XXII. Nettie's return home-Boosting too soon-A midnight scene-The curse-Tragical death-The lone burial-The mother's terrible awakening-Triumphs of an evil spirit, 231
                
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. Lonny's return-His vow not yet fulfilled, 241
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. Meeting of Lonny and Nettie-Awakened suspicions-Magnanimity-Lonny goes to Willow Glen-The vow accomplished, 252
                
               CHAPTER XXV. A bachelor's soliloquy-Letters from home-Reverses-The debtor's Prison-Father and Son-Bitter thoughts, 262
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. The intercepted letters, 272
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. The fourth confidant-"A new lesson"-A wedding in prospect, 282
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. "This my son was lost and is found"-The joyous feast-A mother's legacy-The heart's response, 291
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. Beginning life anew-Maggie's prophecy-The gift-Love's magic wand-A father's blessing "gained at last," 302
                
               CHAPTER XXX. A cloud on Uncle Joseph's face-"Mischief at the bottom"-Close questioning-Mark's suspicions-The crisis-"The old Jezebel routed at last," 312
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. Richard Morton in perplexity-The unknown benefactor-The exacted promise-The business engagement, 321
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. Mark Atherton again in his library-Life's review-Uncle Joseph's good cheer-The brothers-Selwyn's emblematical gift-Lonny and Nettie home at last-Uncle Joseph's blessing, 331
                
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. Miss Mowbray's new attorney-Richard's "good angel"-"A great deal done in two weeks"-Village gossip-Pleasant anticipations-Miss Priscilla's faith and fortune, 341
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. Life's lesson learned-The "companion" turns "heiress"-Array of fashion and beauty-The queenly bride-The ruse revealed-Great sensation-Chagrin of Mr. Flint and other mammon-worshippers-Scene in the servants' hall-Gifts of the heiress-The poor made happy, 352
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. Family discussion at Willow Glen-Mrs. Atherton in her solitude-Nettie's visit and appeal to her mother-The mother's answer-The last gem crushed, 367
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. Nettie's bridal-The rich endowment-Uncle Joseph's present-The "Legacy" transmitted-A tableau, 377
                
             
          
       
      
         
            The golden legacy 
             
            THE GOLDEN LEGACY. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Who solves the deep, dark mysteries that shroud 
                        The low abodes of wretchedness and want, 
                        Unlocks the portals of the human heart, 
                        Bringing to light gems that lie deep buried 
                        In immeasurable woe." 
                     
                   
                
               WARM and loving was the sun's bright glance, as it beamed through the aperture which served for a window, in the miserable hovel old Paul Brown called his home. In strange contrast with those glad, joyous beams, dancing so merrily in through every crevice, was this wretched abode of penury and want. Hunger, cold, and consuming disease, held undisputed sway within the comfortless walls. Nought was there to stay the hand of the destroyer, as he stealthily crept toward the old man's couch. Couch, did I say? If a wisp of straw, scattered sparingly over a few rough boards, and covered with such rags as had been gleaned from the streets and by-ways, with only a larger bunch of them for a pillow, could be dignified by such a name, then was Paul Brown's resting-place a couch; for thus had his aged limbs, feeble and worn with care and sorrow, found their only repose. None knew how long he had been an occupant of the hitherto deserted hut, nor whence he came. His very existence would have been unnoticed, save that each morning a ragged, dirty, half-famished looking boy knocked gently at many of the doors in the village near by, and in plaintive tones asked for "somethin' for gran'ther to eat." Thus had they lived for many a weary month-the old man and boy; and thus, perhaps, they might have lived on still as many more, had not the feeble flickering of life's lamp given warning, that soon all sorrow and want would find an eternal rest. 
               Still, the bright sun, unmindful of all save its own life-giving mission, bathed those palsied limbs in its radiant warmth, as lovingly as a few moments later it kissed the rosy mouth, and sparkled in the golden curls of the rich squire's youngest treasure. 
               The old man roused from his deep sleep at the genial touch, and, half awaking, thought some angel's wing had fanned his brow, so sweet had been his sleeping fancies. But, alas! in dreams only can suffering want like his find forgetfulness. One glance at the uncovered rafters above, the bare walls around, untouched save by the hand of time, and his illusion vanished. Feebly raising his head, supported by a skeleton hand, he looked anxiously toward the opposite corner, and in tones of piteous weakness cried, 
                
               "Lonny, Lonny boy, why don't you wake up? I'm a'most froze, and starved too." 
               What had before seemed but a bundle of rags, stowed carelessly into the corner, began to exhibit signs of animation, and gradually, as though loth to leave even such a bed, the small form of a boy emerged from the loathsome place. He had scarce numbered ten summers, and yet his face wore a look of care and anxiety, befitting one of mature years. Covered with rags and filth, his long, uncombed hair of reddish hue falling unheeded about his face and neck, he was a pitiably revolting object. And yet, none who knew how his young shoulders had borne their heavy burden, or how the springs of love and hope, ever gushing through childhood's heart, had been dried within him, could have looked upon him without interest. One Eye alone had seen his utter misery, and though he knew it not, an unseen hand was even now guiding him through bitter trials, to a bright hereafter. All that poor Lonny knew, or felt on this cold, frosty morning, as he so reluctantly roused himself from his blessed oblivion to care, was that, somehow or other, he must make a fire to warm "poor gran'ther," and then go forth, faint with hunger as he was, to his daily morning task of begging. The gleam of sunshine, which still rested so kindly on the old man's form, seemed to infuse some of its cheerfulness into the boy, for he quickly slipped his feet into a pair of cast-off shoes he had picked up the day before, and tying them on with a strip of coarse cloth, thus completed his toilet. 
                
               "Now, Lonny, that's a good boy," said old Paul, as he watched his movements. 
               Lonny rubbed his eyes and looked with amazement at the old man, for he had been so long used to his impatience and fretfulness, he could scarce trust himself that he heard aright. 
               "What ails ye, gran'ther?" he asked in surprise. 
               "I don't know, boy. I feel strangely this morning." 
               "I should think you did," murmured the boy, as he collected the few bits of refuse wood they had saved from their yesterday's supply, and placing them on the old hearth, made several ineffectual efforts to ignite the rubbish. The broken-down chimney did not aid him in these efforts, and as he puffed and blew with all his strength to awaken some latent spark, his eyes were filled with the smoke which rolled in such clouds through the apartment as dimmed the sun's pure light. 
               "O dear-dear;" cried old Paul, coughing between each word, "can't you help making such a smoke? it chokes me terribly; there, let it be till you go out and find some lighter stuff." 
               "Why, gran'ther," replied the boy, "I picked up all I could find yesterday, and they told me down to the new house they're building, never to show my scarecrow face there again," and he applied himself yet more vigorously, till he was rewarded by seeing a bright flame shoot up the smoky hole, and soon the whole crackled and glowed with a pleasant sound. 
               There, gran'ther," said Lonny, pointing with pride to the bright blaze, "haint I made you a good fire now?" 
               "Yes, my boy; and may be you won't ever have to make another for me," feebly replied the sick man. 
               Lonny looked wonderingly into his face; and catching with quick perception the change there, crept softly and almost fearfully to his grandfather's side. The imbecile look and childish querulousness to which he had been so long accustomed, were gone, and in their stead the calm gaze of those mild blue eyes was bent upon him in loving solicitude. The child felt the mystery, and closer drew to his only earthly friend and protector, as he timidly asked, "Why shan't I never make you another fire, gran'ther?" 
               "I said, maybe you wouldn't," replied the old man hastily, unwilling to confess his fears. "But run now, Lonny, and find some more fagots, and see what you I can get for your breakfast; and when you come back, call at the Squire's, and ask that good lady to come over here. I must see her to-day." 
               Exhausted with his effort to speak, Paul Brown sank back on his rag pillow, while Lonny, placing on his head an apology for a cap, went quietly out, wondering what made gran'ther talk so strangely, and look so very white. 
               Crisp, crisp, went his little feet over the untrodden snow,-for their hut stood far back from the village road,-and warm, warm was the bright shroud the sun wrapped about him; but all the while he kept thinking and wondering what made gran'ther so changed. All unheeded was the noiseless stride of a skeleton messenger, as, with a ghastly grin and nod, it swiftly passed the boy to fulfil its dread mission. Its icy breath made him shiver and look around. "What a cold blast that was," thought he as he quickened his steps. 
               Presently the sound of merry voices reached his ear, and soon a troop of light, rosy faces came bounding along in noisy glee, on their way to school. Lonny crept behind a great stone, where he could watch them, unseen in his hiding-place. Poor fellow! how he longed to join the happy group, and how utterly forsaken and lonely he seemed then. He was young to feel such bitter pangs, and yet he was old in suffering, for his ten years of life had comprised as much misery, as is often eked out to the "threescore and ten." But the prattle of the gay, thoughtless children drove every thing from his mind, and for the moment he fancied himself like one of them. His heart throbbed with a strange feeling of gladness, and in his trembling eagerness he stretched forth his arms to embrace these kindred spirits. In so doing he exposed himself to their view, and such a shout as they raised nearly crazed him. 
               "Holloa, you ragamuffin, where'd you drop from?" cried one of the larger boys, while the girls shrunk back in affright. 
               "By jolly, what a scarecrow!" exclaimed another, "let's see what he's made of;" and whizz, went a large snow-ball, aimed at the head of the poor boy, carrying with it his remnant of a cap. 
               "Good! go it again! down with red-top," shouted several of the mischief-loving rogues, as they poured a volley of the white missiles about the unoffending boy. 
               For a moment Lonny stood amidst the taunts and pelting in silence, his bosom heaving and his eye growing dark with passion, till, suddenly springing upon the foremost boy, he dealt him a blow that sent him sprawling into the snow. 
               "That's it;" "pitch into his rags;" "at it again," "bloody his nose for him;" screamed the boys, as they rushed upon the intruder, who sprang like a cat behind the wall again, with a defiant glance at them. 
               "Who's afraid o' you, you little beggar?" they cried, showering him again with snow-balls. 
               "Now, boys, you're too bad," exclaimed a little golden-haired girl, stepping into the midst of them: "that's the poor little boy that comes to our house most every day for something to eat, and Aunt Lottie says we should always treat poor folks kindly." 
               "Pooh! Nettie; how like a fool you talk," said her brother Albert, who was the first offender; "mother says poor folks aint fit to live, and I guess mother knows best; so here goes again." 
               But this time his was a solitary snow-ball, for Nettie's silvery voice was like oil upon the troubled waters, as she cried, "for shame! for shame! Ally." 
               "You'd better go long about your business, Net; mother says you're always bothering her about some dirty brat or other. I spose you'd like now to kiss that little savage yonder, wouldn't you?" sneeringly asked Ally. 
                
               "No, I wouldn't like to kiss him," she artlessly replied, "cause he's dirty and ragged, and-and-may be he's ugly, but I wish he'd got as good clothes as we have, and could go to school and learn as we do; maybe he'd be good then." 
               Perfect embodiment of angelic beauty and purity was little Nettie Atherton, as she stood thus confronting her rude brother, and earnestly pleading for the world-forsaken boy. Lonny gazed upon her, spell-bound,-he almost expected to see her spread her wings and fly up into the sky, like the pictures of angels he had once or twice seen. 
               Instead of that she came towards him, and said in her own sweet, childish tones, 
               "I hope these naughty boys haven't hurt you much, have they? I'm sure I pity you, poor little boy." 
               Her words recalled him to his senses, and, darting an angry look at the rude boys, he replied: "I don't want nobody to pity me;" then turning, he ran as fast as his feet could carry him, back to his poor home, and throwing himself upon his bed of rags, sobbed and cried till it seemed that his young heart must break. 
               "Poor boy! poor boy!" feebly murmured old Paul Brown, as he listened to his sobs; "he'll have to go to the poorhouse,-there's no help for it now-unless-unless-I could tell somebody about-his father." 
               The last words were uttered as though each syllable was wrung from the depths of a bitter fountain. 
               The first paroxysm of Lonny's grief passed, he began to think over his morning's adventure. At first his breath came thick and fast at the cruelty and injustice of the boys; but deep down into his heart sank the remembrance of an angel face, and sweet pleading voice, whose tones still lingered like olian music in his ear. Then her words seemed to awaken a new thought, for he sprang up hastily, saying, 
               "Gran'ther, what do boys and girls go to school for?" 
               "To get larnin', child; what do you ask that for?" 
               "'Cause; why don't I go? and why don't I have such clothes as they do?" 
               A look of anguish passed over old Paul's face, as he replied- 
               "Poor folks like us shouldn't never have no larnin'; that's what killed your poor mother, and broke us all up; if she'd never had no larnin', she'd a been content with her old father and mother. Don't get larnin', boy, don't-don't." 
               "O gran'ther," cried Lonny, opening wide his eyes, "did I ever have a mother?" 
               "None that you knew on, for she died when you was born; but she was as putty a pictur as ever you did see-my Alice was,"-and two great tears rolled down his furrowed cheeks, to the memory of the lost and loved one-the first he had shed for many a year. 
               "Tell me about her, gran'ther," eagerly exclaimed Lonny; "was that her name that you said?" 
               "Alice?-yes; my Alice was her name," fondly murmured the old man, dwelling lovingly on a name he had not uttered for ten years. 
               "Did I have a father too, gran'ther?" asked Lonny, timidly, as he thought of the happy children he had seen with fathers and mothers. 
               Paul Brown's face grew so dark and stern, it frightened the boy, as he replied-"Never speak of him, Lonny; he was a bad, wicked man; and yet," he added, in a very low voice, "who knows but he might a' done something for the boy-if-if-we'd a told him." 
               "Alice,"-the password to the secret chambers of his soul, had been spoken, and forth thronged memories filled with the redolence of early years. The wife of his youth,-their long and pleasant companionship,-the prattle of a little blue-eyed cherub-his Alice, the love that bade them toil day and night, that their pearl might be polished for a bright setting,-their pride and joy in the surpassing beauty of their treasure-O why must the bright vision be followed by the dark phantoms of sin, misery, and death? Yet thus it was; and though his life had since become a blank in his remembrance, the old man knew that from the wreck of all his hopes, only this poor, innocent boy-child of his lost Alice, was left to him. And now the little fellow must live on, friendless and alone, unless he could disclose the name of him who had desolated his home, and claim for the boy a father's protection and care. Paul writhed with agony at the thought of yielding up his hoarded secret, but well he knew that death stood even now at the threshold, waiting but this last act of justice, ere he claimed his own. 
               "Lonny, go quick and call somebody in," at length he uttered with thickening breath; "poor boy, I'll wrong you no longer." 
               "What for, gran'ther? who shall I call?" asked the frightened boy, 
               "Call somebody that's good, and tell 'em I'm dying." 
               Lonny waited for no more, but ran with all his might towards Squire Atherton's. "I'll get HER-Aunt Lottie"-said he to himself; "I know she's good." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                  
                      
                        "How few, like thee, inquire the wretched out, 
                        And court the offices of soft humanity! 
                        Like thee, reserve their raiment for the naked, 
                        Reach out their bread to feed the crying orphan, 
                        Or mix the pitying tears with those that weep!" 
                     
                   
                
               MARK ATHERTON, Esq., was the oracle of the Clifton people. He was not only the richest man in town, living in the handsomest house, wearing the finest broadcloth, and owning the most elegant equipage, but he was the only lawyer in all the region, dispensing evenhanded justice throughout his jurisdiction, with such fidelity to the right, that few ever thought of appealing from his decisions. To the blessed home influences of his childhood and youth-to the mother, whose earnest prayers that her children might love the good and eschew the evil, were indelibly written in his heart, did he ascribe those intuitions of right and wrong. And when death placed its cold seal on the loved and honored lips which had taught him such lessons of wisdom, the ark of the covenant seemed still to rest with him, as he received into his house the living image of her who bore him-his only sister, Charlotte. 
               Not until his own heart vibrated with a thrill of delight, to the music of little voices around his hearth, did he fully estimate the value of the character his mother had moulded. Love had led him blindfold to the altar, when he gave his heart and hand to Louisa Manning; but gradually the scales fell from his eyes, as the simple and unostentatious piety of his sister's life, made more striking by its contrast, the hardhearted, worldly selfishness of one he had thought so near perfection. Still, with all her faults, Mark Atherton loved his wife, and trusted much to the gentle influences of his sister in softening the asperity of her temper. And so for several years, at the time our story opens, had Charlotte Atherton, or "Aunt Lottie," as she was familiarly called by all the family, been domesticated under her brother's roof. Many were the alluring homes which, with the noble hearts of their owners, had been eagerly urged upon her acceptance; but Aunt Lottie, while gaining a friend in each rejected lover, found among them all none who fully met the wants of her heart. And so, every body said that "Aunt Lottie" was destined to be an "old maid," and so thought the maiden herself, as she approached her twenty-seventh birth-day, and none had stirred the deep fount of love within her. If the people of Clifton honored truth and justice in the person of Esquire Atherton, they worshipped no less the beautiful and good in his lovely sister. Not an abode of poverty or want, not a bed of sickness or sorrow, but had been cheered by the sweet tones of her voice as she ministered to their necessities, mingling with words of kindness bright hopes for the future. 
               The days and months which had so wearily dragged along poor old Paul Brown's life to its close, had been spent by Aunt Lottie among her friends abroad; else the bitterness of his life would have been softened by her gentle ministrations, and conscience perchance, awakened sooner to the duty he owed the little companion of his misery-his orphan grandchild. 
               But now Aunt Lottie has returned, to the delight of all the village; and as her light footsteps glide through many a well-remembered door, mists of sorrow and darkness vanish in the sunshine and warmth of her loving heart. But in her soft hazel eye beams a light, taken only from love's altar; and the secret she so sedulously strives to conceal, betrays itself in the rosy hue of her cheek, and the palpitating eagerness with which she receives the post's daily treasure. Yes, Aunt Lottie's heart has at last found its resting-place, and her future seems radiant with happiness, pure and enduring. The same bright rays, which shed a momentary light into the hearts of the poor suffering outcasts in the lonely hut, on that cold morning in January, gently laid a warm blessing on the head of the maiden, as in her solitary chamber she sat, in deep reverie, still holding before her an open letter, which for the last half hour had filled her thoughts. 
               "Next week!" at length she exclaimed, while a bright blush stole over cheek and brow, "what will Mark say, when I find courage to tell him? Next week! why, Melville said he should not come for two months, and it is scarcely three weeks since I got home! I will write to him that I have not yet confided our secret to my brother, and he must wait a little longer." 
               "Please, Miss Charlotte," said a servant as she knocked at the door, "the little beggar boy wants to see you very badly." 
               "What beggar boy, Margaret?" asked Aunt Lottie, as she carefully locked in her writing-desk the precious missive. 
               "The one that used to come here every day for cold victuals; I guess you never see him though, cause he never come till after you went away, and he haint been here lately. He said something or other about his gran'ther's dying, and wanting to see you." 
               "It must be some case of distress that I knew nothing of," said Aunt Lottie, hastening down to the kitchen. 
               There, away in one corner of the room, frightened at his own boldness, the poor shivering fellow had shrunk; he dared not raise his eyes, till he heard a pleasant voice exclaim, 
               "Why! what is this, cook?" 
               "The boy, ma'am," was the reply, "he wouldn t go away till he'd seen you; you've got your hands full now, ma'am, I reckon." 
               "Poor little fellow! what can I do for you?" said Aunt Lottie, looking kindly at the forlorn object. 
                
               "I don't want nothin'," replied the boy; "but gran'ther says he is a dying, and wants somebody to come quick." 
               "Where do you live?" 
               "Way over in the fields yonder." 
               "What, in that old broken-down hut? who lives with you there?" 
               "Nobody but gran'ther and me." 
               "Who takes care of you?" 
               "Nobody." 
               "I sh'd think so," muttered the cook, casting a side look at the boy's tangled locks and filthy rags. 
               "What is your name, my poor boy?" asked Aunt Lottie, whose heart warmed towards such friendless poverty. 
               "Lonny." 
               "And you say your grandfather is sick?" 
               "I don' no, ma'am; he said he was a dyin, and told me to run quick and get somebody." 
               "Have you had any breakfast to-day, Lonny?" 
               "No ma'am." 
               "Nor your grandfather, either?" 
               "No ma'am; he said he didn't want any, 'cause he's a dyin'," said the boy, utterly unconscious of the dread import of the words he repeated. 
               "This is really a pitiable case," said Aunt Lottie, turning to the cook, "and while you give him some nice, warm breakfast, I will put up a few things in a basket, and get ready to go with him." 
               "There, boy," said the cook, as she obeyed her instructions structions, "it's well for you the Squire's lady didn't see you first, or you'd a been packed off in a hurry without this;" and the kind-hearted woman placed a most savory dish before him. 
               "I wish there was lots more o' just such kind o' folks in this world," she continued, wiping her eye with a corner of her apron, as the little fellow betrayed his half-starved condition; "howsomever, she'll never be none the worse off for it, bless her kind soul." 
               "Now, Lonny," said Aunt Lottie, coming in equipped for her walk, "if you've had a good breakfast and will show me the way, I'll go with you and see your grandfather." 
               The boy cast a quick, grateful look at her, as he replied, 
               "Yes ma'am." 
               "What made you think of coming after me?" she asked, as they walked along. 
               Lonny thought a moment, and then, in his simple, artless, ignorant way, told his morning's adventure. 
               "Ah," said Aunt Lottie, smiling, "just like my little darling Nettie; she will always be a peacemaker." 
               Had any other than Charlotte Atherton been seen toiling through the snow, basket in hand, with that squalid-looking child at her side, many a passing jest would have met her ear; but with only now and then a hearty "God bless you" from grateful lips, she quietly moved along on heavenly mission. She sees not those white-robed guides, with loving arms outstretched about her, as, showering sweet incense on her path, they lead her on to the poor, sinking spirit, soon to be borne on their bright wings beyond the reach of sorrow and pain. Mortal vision cannot pierce the thin veil which enshrouds spirit life, else Aunt Lottie, as she entered that most wretched of all human abodes, would have seen it filled with beings of radiant beauty, waiting to welcome the outcast from earth to their glowing hearts. 
               "Come-quick," cried old Paul, with short gasping breath, as Lonny, with his new friend, approached the corner where the dying man lay. 
               Aunt Lottie knew at a glance, that the fettered soul's release was at hand, and tenderly taking the cold, shrivelled hand within her own, she said,-"Is your heart at rest, my friend?" 
               "Yes, yes," gasped he, "I trust-in-God-but"-then drawing from his bosom a dirty leathern bag, he put it in her hand, with an anxious look. 
               "What is this?" asked Aunt Lottie, with surprise, as she opened it and took from it, carefully wrapped in cotton, a miniature of an exquisitely beautiful girl. 
               "His-mother-my-Al"-but the palsied tongue refused to utter that loved name, and a look of agony passed over his pallid face, as he struggled but for one more word. In vain were all Aunt Lottie's restoratives,-nought but death can loose that tongue again. 
               "Poor sufferer," exclaimed Aunt Lottie; "he has something on his mind he wants to tell me." 
               The dying man grasped her hand as she said this, while every feature was distorted in his vain efforts to speak. 
               "Is it about this poor boy?" asked she, as a sudden thought struck her. 
               He pressed her hand in assent. 
               "Is this-his mother-alive?" pointing to the picture. 
               He shook his head. 
               "His father dead, too?" Aunt Lottie was becoming more and more distressed, as she saw the dew of death gather on his brow, and still the secret unrevealed. 
               Paul Brown threw his arms wildly about, in unutterable anguish at this last question. 
               "Sh-h," whispered Lonny, "he told me never to speak about him, 'cause he is a wicked, bad man." 
               "His secret, whatever it was, has gone with him to the eternal world," solemnly added Aunt Lottie, as she reverently closed the eyes of the dead. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Adversity's cold frosts will soon be o'er; 
                           It heralds brighter days:-the joyous Spring 
                           Is cradled on the Winter's icy breast, 
                           And yet comes flushed in beauty." 
                        
                      
                     MRS. HEMANS. 
                   
                
               "GOOD friends all, great and small, how d'ye do?" exclaimed the cheerful voice of Joseph Atherton, as he opened the sitting-room door where his brother's family were seated at the tea-table. 
               "Why Joe, you are right welcome," cried Esquire Atherton, springing from his chair and grasping his hand cordially, "this is a pleasant surprise." 
               "Oh, Uncle Joseph! Uncle Joseph!" shouted the children, clapping their hands for joy, "I'm so glad you've come." 
               "Glad to see me, are you, you little rogues? Give me a real good hug and kiss then;-there-there, that'll do; I want to save one for your mother and Aunt Lottie." 
               "My queenly sister Louisa, I must have something better than that," said the new comer, as he took Mrs. Atherton's extended hand, and then pressed a most brotherly salute on her fair cheek, to her evident disgust. 
               "Lottie, darling, last but not least," and Uncle Joseph drew his favorite to his heart, while she fairly wept for joy on his breast. 
               "Now, Joe," said his brother, as they re-seated themselves at the table, "this is indeed pleasant; but why didn't your wife come with you?" 
               "Oh, bless your soul, my Henny couldn't leave the dairy; there's the milk to take care of, butter and cheese to make, besides the young lambs to look after," and Uncle Joseph cast a mischievous glance towards the dignified lady at the head of the table. 
               "I should suppose," said she, "you would have men to look after such things; it isn't fit for ladies." 
               "Oh, well," he replied good-naturedly, "my wife was never cut out for a fine lady, you know; she's just as much at home among the chickens, pigs, and geese, as you are in a drawing-room." 
               "She makes a capital farmer's wife," added Esquire Atherton. 
               "That she does," said Joseph, his face glowing with pleasure, "you must all come over to Daisyside next spring, and see for yourselves what a plump rosy little wife I've got." 
               "Oh, may we go, mother?" asked littte Nettie joyfully. 
               "To be sure you may, my little flaxen-haired doll," said Uncle Joseph, patting her head, "and frisk about with the lambs, and feed the chickens, and ride on old Carlo's back when he goes after the cows, and ever so many other things just as pleasant." 
               "Mother, will you go?" persisted the delighted child. 
               "Perhaps Aunt Lottie will take you there," replied Mrs. Atherton haughtily; "I never could endure the air of a farm-yard." 
               Aunt Lottie looked almost like a culprit, when urged by the children to promise them she would go. She knew that before that time, another home would claim her as its mistress. 
               "By the way," said Joseph suddenly, "where's the boy you wrote to me about, Lottie?" 
               A threatening gesture from her checked him. 
               "Oh! I thought they knew all about it." 
               "What is it?" asked Mark, "has she been interesting you in some of her protgs? She has plenty of them here." 
               "Too many for her own good," added Mrs. Mark with asperity. 
               "I don't know about that, wife," replied her husband warmly; "if the prayers of the poor avail aught, our Lottie will have a most blessed life, both here and hereafter." 
               "The prayers of the poor!" sneered Mrs. Atherton; "pray, when did you ever hear one that was not utterly selfish?" 
               "O fie, Louisa," exclaimed Joseph, earnestly; "give me the prayers of the poor, and the rich may pray as they like, for aught I care." 
                
               Mrs. Atherton left the room with her children, not wishing such lessons impressed on their minds. Albert, the eldest, a boy of ten, was after his mother's own heart-"a perfect Manning," as she often used to say with pride,-but Nettie-the sweet, golden-haired Nettie-Aunt Lottie's pet from her birth, shocked continually her mother's nice sense of the pride of station.
                
               "Now, Joseph," said Aunt Lottie eagerly, as she was left alone with her brothers, "tell me what you intend to do about the boy." 
               "Intend! why, I intend to keep him from starving, to be sure, and if my wise little sister here thinks it best, I shall take him home with me, and make a man of him." 
               "That's just what I expected, you dear, good, kind soul; Oh, how thankful I am." 
               "Not so fast, Lottie, not so fast, or you'll make me think I'm doing some great deed, when the truth is, Henny and I have got to thinking how nice it would be to have some one to love us and to take care of us when we are old; so you see it's all selfishness, every bit." 
               "I see no such thing, my dear brother," gratefully replied Lottie. "You cannot hide that noble heart beneath such a false covering." 
               "Well, really," exclaimed Mark, who had been an interested listener, "I should like to deserve such a compliment as that from our Lottie. Pray, what boy are you speaking of?" 
               "The one whose grandfather was buried last week from that miserable old shanty; you know who I mean, Mark, for you bought the coffin, and furnished the poor child a decent suit of clothes. Are your deeds of kindness so many you have forgotten that?" 
               "No, indeed, Lottie; would that they were. I recollect very well the transformation you effected in the worst looking specimen of childhood I ever saw. But surely, Joe, you are not going to take that little fellow home!" 
               "Why not, Mark? he'll have to go to the poor-house if I don't. And Lottie thinks I can make something of him." 
               "Why, he was the most ungainly looking object your eyes ever rested on, before Lottie took him in hand." 
               "Ah! but you should see him now, Mark," said Lottie proudly, "he is really a very pretty boy-bright and intelligent too, for one who has led such a life; Joseph, I know, will make a good boy of him, and only think how thankful he will be by and by, for such a home and friends." 
               "And how thankful he ought to be," added her brother, smiling, "for such a pleader as you are. You'd better take him, Joe; I'd trust Lottie's judgment in such a case." 
               "That's just what Henny and I said when we got Lottie's letter, and so I came right off after him." 
               "Ridiculous! abominable! past all endurance!" were Mrs. Atherton's exclamations, when her husband told her Uncle Joseph's errand. "'Tis astonishing how some people do like to set beggars on horseback. I think, Mr. Atherton, it is time you put a stop to your sister Charlotte's disgraceful behavior. Why, I absolutely saw her walking through the street yesterday, taking hold of that little pauper's hand!" 
               "What was there disgraceful about that, Louisa?" 
               "Oh, Mr. Atherton, you are so provoking!-as if there was nothing disgraceful in people of our station letting themselves down to a level with beggars." 
               "Yes, but Lottie don't do that, my dear; she tries to raise them to her level." 
               "Which can never be done;" rejoined Mrs. Atherton decidedly: "Look at that boy, for instance, whom your brother's extreme folly will place in a condition above his birth; do you suppose all the education he can give him will blot out the beggar from his veins?" 
               "Why, Louisa, one would think, to hear you talk, that you considered the rich and poor two distinct races of beings. I shouldn't wonder now, if brother Joe made something smart out of that little fellow yet." 
               "Smart, or not;" Mrs. A. replied, "my children shall never step their foot inside his house, while that low-lived boy is there." 
               "Oh come, come, wife, don't let your prejudices run away with you so," said her husband good-naturedly." "'Tis not what outward seems, but what's within that makes the man." 
               "Mother! mother!" cried Albert, bursting into the room, his cheek flushed with anger, "Nettie says Uncle Joseph is going to take that little beggar home with him, and he is to be our cousin; he ain't going to, is he, mother?" 
               "He's going home with your Uncle Joseph, I suppose," replied his mother in a bitter tone, "but he's not to be your cousin, and I shall severely punish either of you, if you call him so." 
               "There, I told Nettie so; but she said if Uncle Joseph took him, you would let us love him; I won't though: I'll call him a little beggar brat every time I see him." 
               Oh, false and erring mother! deeply may you yet rue the day when you planted such seeds of bitterness in that young heart. Perchance their springing up may fill your own path with thorns, whose poisoned barb shall rankle in your bosom with terrible retribution. 
               What a different scene did Nurse Walton's little parlor present, during this domestic tte--tte at Esq. Atherton's. Uncle Joseph's round genial face fairly shone with joy, as he saw the happiness of the hitherto friendless lad, when told by Aunt Lottie of the home and friends he would find, if he proved a good boy. She had taken him from his grandfather's death-bed to the cottage of good old Nurse Walton, in whom she always found an efficient co-operator in her benevolent plans. Nurse's ready hands had fashioned for him a plain but neat suit of clothes, and, with the help of scissors and brush, his matted locks had changed to soft and glossy auburn hair. Wonderful was the transformation, as Lonny stepped forth in his new habiliments, his dark blue eye speaking the gratitude his lips could not frame. 
               "There, Joseph," said his sister, proudly placing the boy's hand in his, "you have saved the poor fellow from a life of poverty, perhaps crime. Brought up under your roof, I know he will lead a useful and happy life." 
               "Wal, if ever I did," cried old Nurse Walton, wiping her eye with the corner of her apron, "there's Miss Lottie been a drudging night and day to fix that boy up, and writ to her brother to get him a place, and now she says he done it all. Some folks is drefful like angels in this world." 
               "O nurse, nurse," said Lottie, laughing, "don't make such a comparison in my case; I have done so little, you fairly make me ashamed; I couldn't keep the boy from the poor-house, if my generous brother here hadn't given him a home." 
               "There it is again, Lottie, when I told you 'twas all selfishness that made Henny and I want some one to love us. Call it generous to take such a boy as this, when he's worth a thousand dollars this minute;" and Uncle Joseph patted the boy affectionately, while he drew him closer to his side. "What do you say, Lonny? won't we have a good time when we get home, driving horses, milking cows, and going to school too?" 
               "Yes, indeed! O, I'm so glad." 
               Lonny's eyes sparkled with delight, and Nettie clapped her hands for joy-"O, won't that be nice?" cried she; "and then when I come to see you we will play together after school; you'll be my cousin then, and I'll love you-Oh, so much." 
               Her mother's mandate was all unknown to the artless prattler, and unlearned was the worldly lesson soon to be enforced. 
               Lonny could not make the present seem real to him. He had often had such dreams on his rag bed in the hovel, and he was almost afraid he should wake up, as he had before, and find himself still in the neglected corner. His heart was burning with an intensity they little dreamed, who were thus turning his bitter life-stream into sweet and flowing waters. 
               "'Taint none o' my business, I spose;" said Nurse Walton, shielding her eyes from the dazzling snow-light, as she watched Joseph Atherton wrap his little charge so warmly in his sleigh, and drive off with a happy face; "taint none o' my business; but it does seem as if some folks was likelier 'n others. There's the Squire's stuck up lady, wouldn't have that boy come inside her door, and now Joe Atherton's took him, and I shouldn't wonder a mite if he made a smarter boy on him than hern, arter all. There always was likely blood in them Athertons." 
               Never, in all life's changes, did Lonny forget this, his first ride-how the merry jingle of the sleigh bells, as they glided swiftly over the snow, awoke the joyous echo of new-born hope within his darkened soul; how, as houses, trees, fields, and villages flew past them, he saw a new world open before him, while the terrible dream of the past seemed fading away, away in the distance tance. Nor less did the noble heart beside him throb with delight, as he watched the happy, beaming face, and saw the joy of the young heart he had loosed from its prison. Joseph Atherton, in all his deeds of kindness-and they were many-had never felt such unmingled happiness, as when he opened his heart and home to the poor isolated boy. And so they rode on, hearts in unison with each other and with the bright world around them,-Uncle Joseph picturing to his little hearer the pleasant home he would soon have, and Lonny wondering if any body was ever so good to a poor boy before. 
               Daisyside, the picturesque home of Joseph Atherton, stood on a gentle eminence overlooking the quiet little village of T--. Around it on every side the broad acres of his thrifty farm stretched out, diversified with hill and dale, woodland and meadow. A summer visitant there would not ask whence it derived its name; for at almost every step through the green lawns, the bright-eyed daisy decked his path in profusion. Dearly the mistress of this beautiful home loved these little flowers, for they accorded well with her own cheerful and happy temper; like them she breathed gladness and sunshine all about her. Daisyside, beautiful as it was, had still a greater charm in the generous, whole-souled hospitality of its owners. Rich and poor were alike welcome to its fireside and table,-nay, if any preference was shown, Henrietta Atherton's pleasant voice was a little softer in its tone, her greeting warmer and more kindly, as she opened her door to the child of want. How Joseph Atherton ever found such a perfect counterpart-such a second self, was a wonder to the neighbors; but he used to say with a hearty laugh, that "his match was made in heaven, long before he knew any thing about it; and when the right time came, his Eve was placed by his side." 
               Up the hill towards this home-Eden, toiled our travellers at the close of their journey. 
               "There, boy," said its owner, pointing with pride, "what do you think of that for a home, hey?" 
               "Oh, do you live in that big house, and am I going to live there too!" exclaimed Lonny with rapture, as he drank in the whole scene. 
               "Well, I shouldn't wonder," replied his companion, laughing, "but look there; see those fellows coasting down that long hill. I took away the wall purpose for the little rascals; to-morrow you shall have as good a sled as any of them, and we'll see who'll be the spryest then." 
               "Welcome home, husband," said the sweet voice of his wife, as Joseph Atherton drew up before the door with his newly adopted charge. "So, this is the little boy, is it?" 
               Lonny looked up eagerly into the face beaming so kindly upon him; he had never seen but one before that seemed so beautiful. 
               "Oh! may I love you?" cried he in ecstasy. 
               "Love me? to be sure you may," said she, with a low musical laugh, "and I know I shall love you, for you look like a very good boy," and she took his hand and led him gently in. 
               What now to the happy boy were the years of misery he had dragged on? vanished like the morning dew, in the new light dawning upon his existence. 
               The poor, neglected, world-forsaken orphan, has found at last a home!-home for the weary body, and more priceless still, home for the yearning heart. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Like a lovely tree 
                        She grew to womanhood, and between whiles 
                        Rejected several suitors, just to learn 
                        How to accept a better in his turn." 
                     
                   
                
               MARK ATHERTON sat in his library, busily engaged in arranging some important papers. Now and then his head would rest upon his hand, and a deep sigh escape him, as some unhappy thought intruded itself. He had been unusually disturbed of late by the exhibition of the darker traits in his wife's character. With a heart full of generous sympathy for the wants and woes of others, he saw worth repulsed with cold and cruel scorn, because clad in poor raiment. Even his own brother, proverbially good and pure-minded, was not exempt from the contemptuous sneer of this woman of the world, when he obeyed the promptings of his noble spirit, and averted the curse of poverty from a young heart. And Lottie too, his ideal of a perfect woman, had been denounced in terms neither mild nor loving. But worse than all, his first-born, his noble boy, was daily imbibing these false and cruel prejudices, and but for the bright example of his sister, perhaps his tenderhearted, beautiful Nettie, might become cold and callous too. What wonder, that thoughts like these oppressed his noble heart with painful misgivings and sad forebodings. Hastily pushing aside his papers, and sinking back in his chair, Mr. Atherton gave himself up to his gloomy reverie. Busy memory, ever at hand, threw her golden chain about him, and far-far back to her brightest haunts would have led him, but a light, familiar tap at the door dispelled her mystic presence, and aroused the dreamer. 
               "Come in, Lottie," cried he, "I am glad you've broken up this fit of musing; I believe I'm getting low spirited to day." 
               "I'm sorry for that, brother, for I want to consult you on a very important matter." 
               "Ah! what important project have you got in your head now? something for the benefit of the poor, of course." 
               "No, Mark, it is not that," said Lottie, coloring deeply, "it more nearly concerns myself." 
               "Concerns yourself!" repeated lie with surprise, "why Lottie, you blush like a girl of sixteen in love. I should almost think you were, if such a thing seemed possible." 
               "Really then, you think I've no heart," laughingly replied she, with a glowing cheek. 
               "Heart! yes, you have-one of the best that ever throbbed," exclaimed her brother warmly; "but what is the 'important matter,' Lottie? you have excited my curiosity greatly." 
               "I thought I had courage to tell you," said Lottie, trembling with agitation; "but-but-" she hesitated. 
               "Why, Lottie, you surprise me more and more; here you stand, trembling and changing color, like a culprit at the bar. Sit down now quietly, and tell me what agitates you thus." 
               "Well, Mark," said she, with attempted cheerfulness, "it was only in relation to an expected visitor that I wished to consult you." 
               "An expected visitor! where, and to whom?" 
               "Here, and to me," replied Lottie, smiling and blushing again. 
               "An expected visitor here and to you," her brother repeated: "that sounds ominous. Another offer, I suppose; but you have been too much used to such things to be so affected by it. Pray, who may it be?" 
               "A Mr. Thornton, whom I met several times in my absence. Forgive me, dear brother, that I did not confide this to you sooner, as was my intention when I returned." 
               "Do you love this Mr. Thornton, Lottie?" Mr. Atherton looked earnestly-almost anxiously into her face for a reply. 
               "I do, Mark," said she, in a low, tremulous tone, while a bright glow suffused her cheek and brow. 
               For a moment her brother covered his face; then, affectionately clasping her hand, he said: 
               "You have taken me so by surprise, Lottie, that I scarcely know what to say. I had selfishly thought to keep you always near me, brightening my home as you have ever done. But if my darling sister loves, and loves worthily, which I doubt not, then may God bless her, even as she deserves to be blessed." 
               "Thank you, brother," replied Lottie with emotion, "but the blessing would indeed be small which should be proportioned to my merits, though not in your partial judgment, I know." 
               "Well, it seems I am not the only one that is partial," smilingly answered her brother; "I could name three, or four, at least, who have paid their heart's tribute to my sister's worth. The one who has gained such a coveted treasure as your heart, Lottie, must be a perfect beau-ideal of excellence. Tell me more about him." 
               "I prefer that you should judge for yourself, Mark; he will be here this afternoon, and I trust my brother will find that I have not chosen unworthily." 
               "Where is he from?" 
               "He has but lately returned from abroad, where he has spent several years, I believe, since his father's death." 
               "He is rich then, I suppose." 
               "I think not, though I know very little about it." 
               "How old is he?" 
               "Quite young enough for your old maid sister; he is thirty; but come, I'm not going to be catechized any more," said Lottie, laughing. 
               "One thing more, Lottie; was he ever married?" 
                
               "I really do not know, Mark; he has often referred to an early grief which caused him to go abroad; I shall doubtless know all at a proper time." 
               "Still another thing, Lottie; you know I shall be argus-eyed about this man, who comes to rob me of my sister. Is he your accepted lover?" 
               "With the approbation of my brother, he is; otherwise he is not." 
               "Let him look well to himself then," said Mr. Atherton, tenderly pressing her hand, "for who receives this priceless gift from me, must be little less than perfection itself." 
               "I shall be satisfied with my brother's decision, I have no doubt," said Lottie, smiling, "for I think he will bear your test. It will save some confusion, perhaps," she added as she left the room, "if you will apprise Louisa of what I have told you." 
               "I'll go now," said he; "how astonished she will be." 
               There are few characters so dark, but have some redeeming traits about them. Cold, stern, and unrelenting as was Mrs. Atherton to the victims of poverty, or humble birth, she was, in her own circle, a most agreeable companion. Her well cultivated mind, refined and courteous manners, and face whose beauty needed but a little warmth, rendered her a favorite among her equals. And at home, when nothing disturbed her bitter prejudices, she was an affectionate mother and kind wife. But Charlotte Atherton's self-denying, active, benevolent life, was a perpetual annoyance to her, the more so perhaps, that her husband entered so warmly into all his sister's plans. There were moments, however, when even her selfish heart was forced to feel, though unacknowledged, the beauty and worth of such a character; and, as if to atone for the intruding thought, her tone and manner grew more bitter towards the unoffending object. In such a mood was she, when her husband sought her to communicate the news. 
               "Oh, Louisa!" exclaimed he, throwing himself into a chair, "you can't guess what I've heard this morning." 
               "What is it about?" she asked with some curiosity. 
               "It's about our Lottie." 
               "Humph! I guess all you hear about her had better not be repeated," said she with a contemptuous shrug. "I'll warrant it's some disgraceful affair. I did think when she palmed that beggar on to your brother, that she would be satisfied a while; but she does seem to love low company." 
               "Now, Louisa, you are ungenerous,"-and her husband spoke sternly. "You know very well, that in all Lottie's acts of kindness to the poor, she feels that she is but performing her duty-a pleasant duty certainly, to a heart like hers. But you have seen, as well as I, how keenly she enjoys the society of the refined,-yes, and how her society is prized by them too. Do you call those gentlemen who showed their appreciation of her character by honorable proposals, low company?" 
               "You forget, Mr. Atherton," sneeringly replied she, "that you are substantiating my remark. Her very refusal of offers that any sensible woman would have eagerly accepted, shows that she has no sympathy with the cultivated and refined." 
               "And you forget, Mrs. Atherton, that those very gentlemen are among her warmest friends. Her delicate manner in declining proposals, of which any woman might be proud, showing, as it did, the sincerity and purity of her heart, won for ever their admiration and esteem." 
               "For all that," added Mrs. Atherton, "you never can make me believe that they, or any other gentlemen, will really respect her, while she associates, as she does, with the low classes." 
               "There you are again unjust, Louisa; she never associates with them as companions. She hears and relieves their wants, sympathizes in their trials, and, as often as she can, places them in a condition to rise above their circumstances. She looks upon them as capable of being educated and refined, like the rest of us. I have no doubt that, a few years hence, many in high social positions will acknowledge their indebtedness to her for their elevation. What an enviable reputation that would be!" 
               "You have a very exalted opinion of your sister"-and Mrs. Atherton curled her lip disdainfully,-"but I think you are alone in it; for my part, not a day passes that I am not ashamed of her conduct." 
               "You'll not have much longer to be ashamed of it," said her husband, "for Lottie will soon be in a home of her own." 
               "I wish I could think so," replied the heartless woman man, "for I do not wish my children brought up under such influences. Nettie is almost ruined now." 
               "Louisa!" exclaimed Mr. Atherton with a quivering lip, "can you forget another child-our beautiful, dying boy? Who to him and us, in that terrible scene, was an angel of mercy? whose voice, by the side of that little grave, soothed your inordinate grief, and breathed submission into your heart? Oh! Louisa, your conscience must tell you, that for all the unkindness you have shown my sister, she has ever returned you good deeds." 
               Mrs. Atherton bit her lips in silence, while her husband threw himself upon a lounge, too thoroughly disturbed to pursue the conversation further. 
               "Come, Ally and Nettie," said their father at dinner, "what do you say to a good sleigh-ride this afternoon?" 
               "Oh, yes, yes; do go," cried both children at once. 
               "We'll take mother along, and leave Aunt Lottie to take care of the house-and visitors too, if there should happen to be any," and Mr. Atherton glanced significantly at his sister. 
               "Oh! do let Aunt Lottie go too," coaxed Nettie; "if any body calls, Julia can tell 'em we're all gone. You will go, won't you, Aunt Lottie?" 
               The tell-tale blush on her cheek was understood only by her brother, as she replied, 
               "No, darling, aunty can't go very well; she has got something to do." 
               "What is it?" persisted Nettie; "can't I help you when we come back?" 
                
               "Don't tease your aunt so," said her mother, who was heartily glad of her husband's proposition; "if you don't like to ride with your father and mother, you may stay at home with Aunt Lottie." 
               "I do love you, mother, and father too," replied the sweet child, "but I'm afraid Aunt Lottie'll be lonesome if we go and leave her all alone." 
               "Never fear Aunt Lottie," said her father, smiling, "she always finds enough to do to keep her from being lonesome. So, wrap yourselves up very warm, and be ready to go in a few minutes, while I tell John to bring the horses round." 
               A grateful smile from Lottie, as they rode off, told her brother that his simple ruse was understood and appreciated. 
               An hour later, and Melville Thornton stood before her,-the very impersonation of manly beauty and high-souled nobility. Upon his features rested an habitual expression of sadness, but when a smile shone there, its charm was indescribable. Such a smile irradiated his face, as he clasped her small white hand within his own. 
               "I am so rejoiced," said he, "to find you alone. I feared you would be surrounded by your friends, and thus our first meeting here rendered formal and cold." 
               "And but for my brother's happy thoughtfulness, it would have been so," she replied with a beaming eye. 
               One lingering glance at the fair face of Charlotte Atherton, as it meets the earnest gaze of her lover, and we leave them to the sacred interchange of the heart's purest and holiest emotions. 
                
               Beautiful she seemed to him, as he looked into the clear depths of her hazel eye, and saw mirrored there the soul's purity. Melville Thornton had seen earth's fairest daughters, in every clime; dark eyes had flashed upon him; languishing beauty sighed in vain; not one answering throb quickened his heart, as for years he moved among them, like some isolated being. But the simple, quiet, unpretending loveliness of Charlotte Atherton, as he met her soon after his return from abroad, while it won his admiration and esteem, awoke, almost imperceptibly, in the silent chambers of his soul, a soft echo, whose tones, as louder and sweeter they grew, filled him with a joy unknown before. Love's light, when first it beams into the strong, mature heart, burns with an intensity far exceeding its youthful fires. Thus it was that Melville Thornton, in life's prime, first laid his heart's offering on the burning altar. And she, for whom this treasure has been hoarded, all worthy the gift, hears in her own bosom the answering chord which brings their hearts' melody in unison. 
               Sparkling with life and gayety, Nettie bounded into the parlor, as the happy sleigh-riders returned. 
               "Oh, aunty!" cried she-but at that moment she glanced at the handsome, dark-browed stranger, and shrunk, like a timid fawn, to her aunt's side. 
               "Why Lottie, where did this little fairy spring from?" exclaimed Mr. Thornton in admiration. "Come here, you little elf, that I may be sure you are flesh and blood." 
               Nettie looked at him in her artless, innocent way; she liked that beautiful smile, and his kind, pleasant voice; she was almost sure he must be good, and when he gently beckoned her to him, she began, almost unconsciously, to draw a little nearer and nearer, till, with the sweet instinct of childhood, she sprang into his proffered arms. 
               "Do you love little girls?" she asked timidly. 
               "To be sure I do," said he, "especially such little girls as you." 
               "Have you got any at home?" 
               "No, I haven't, but I should like to take you home with me, and then I should have a very nice one. Will you go?" 
               "No, I can't; I'm Aunt Lottie's little pet; she'd be lonesome without me." 
               "But what if Aunt Lottie would go too?" added he, with a mischievous smile. 
               Nettie raised her wondering face to his. Just at that moment Mr. Atherton entered the room with his wife, who saw with astonishment the distinguished-looking foreigner, holding Nettie, so lovingly nestled in his lap. Before Lottie, in her confusion, could introduce the stranger, Mr. Atherton advanced towards him, with a puzzled look, scanning his features. 
               "Excuse me, sir," said he, "but your countenance is so familiar; I thought I knew you." 
               "Your memory is more treacherous than mine, Mark," said Mr. Thornton, grasping his hand warmly, "you have forgotten, I see, your young college friend, Melville." 
                
               "What! Melville Thornton? Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Atherton. "Why Lottie, did you mean this for a pleasant surprise?" 
               "I am as much surprised as yourself, brother," Lottie blushingly answered; "I was not before aware that you had ever met." 
               "I kept that secret purposely," said Mr. Thornton, smilingly, "but this lady, who I presume is Mrs. Atherton, I have never had the pleasure of seeing before." 
               "Forgive my rudeness," said Mr. Atherton; "wife, allow me to introduce to you a very dear friend of mine, Mr. Thornton." 
               Mrs. Atherton, who was delighted with the highbred, polished manners of their guest, received him very graciously, and thus was Lottie spared her dreaded task. 
               Long and pleasant was the conference between the old friends in Mr. Atherton's library that evening; and when, at its close, Mr. Atherton, with moistened eyes and trembling lips, gave his warm approval of a union so fraught with happiness, Melville Thornton felt that the dark day of his life might yet have a bright setting. 
               Only one condition did Mr. Atherton impose upon the happy lovers,-that his wife should not be informed of their betrothal except by himself; he had a lesson in store for her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                  
                      
                        "She is mine own; 
                        And I as rich in having such a jewel, 
                        As twenty seas, if all their sand were pearls, 
                        The water nectar, and the rocks pure gold." 
                     
                      
                        "A woman moved, is like a fountain troubled, 
                        Muddy, ill seeming, thick, bereft of beauty; 
                        And, while it is so, none so dry or thirsty 
                        Will deign to sip, or touch one drop of it." 
                     
                   
                
               "THAT'S the last thing I expected to hear," exclaimed Henrietta Atherton, as her husband folded the letter he had just been reading to her; "who ever thought your sister Lottie would get married? She always seemed to me too good for any body." 
               "I know somebody just as good," said he with an affectionate smile, "who was married some six or seven years ago." 
               "Oh, Joseph, you know I have never done half as much for the poor as your sister; her example always reproves me." 
               "Well, Henny, we won't dispute about your comparative goodness. Heaven knows I have a better wife than I deserve, and so will this Mr. Thornton, unless he is a paragon of perfection." 
               "Your brother speaks very highly of him." 
               "Yes, it seems Mark knew him in college; he thinks him worthy even of Lottie's hand. But I wonder what he wants us to be so very private about it for?" 
               "He has some good reason for it, no doubt. Let me see, what shall I wear to the wedding? Next week, you say?" 
               "Yes, next Wednesday. Get something nice, Henny; you'll have time to make it, and I want Mark's proud wife to see that my Henny can be as much of a lady as she." 
               "Oh, you foolish man,-to expect that a little homebody like me, can appear like his tall, handsome, dignified wife." 
               "I wouldn't have you appear like her for any thing," said Joseph, laughing," you'd drive me out of the house in ten minutes. Only be yourself, Henny, and I am proud to place you beside that iceberg." 
               "Mark's wife has been so accustomed to fashionable society," said the charitable woman, apologetically, "that I should'nt wonder much if she did feel a little ashamed to acknowledge me as her sister." 
               "Ashamed of you!" exclaimed her husband, "why Henny, your warm sunny face makes every body love you. Ashamed of my wife!" he repeated, going out of the door, "I guess we'll see who'll be ashamed next week." 
               "Look here, Lonny," he cried, as the little fellow ran across his path, "I've got some news to tell you." 
                
               "Yes, sir," said the boy, stopping before him. 
               "Yes, sir," repeated Joseph Atherton, laughing, "is that all the curiosity you have? Aunt Henny and l are going to Clifton next week to a wedding; who do you guess is to be married?" 
               "I don't know, sir," answered Lonny with a puzzled look. 
               "I don't believe the boy knows what I mean no wonder, poor fellow; he hasn't lived among folks but three months," and Mr. Atherton stroked Lonny's hair lovingly. "Do you remember the kind lady that took care of you when your grandfather died, and dressed you up so nicely?" 
               "Oh, yes, indeed," cried Lonny, brightening up, "and Nettie too." 
               "Well, a very good man loves that lady, and is going to take her home with him, to live in his beautiful house; so they have a wedding, and the minister prays, and blesses them before they go; do you understand now?" 
               "Yes, sir," said Lonny, and his eyes sparkled with joy-"and I know what I'll do when I'm a man-I'll make-Oh, such a big house! And then I'll have a wedding, and Nettie shall come and live with me." 
               Uncle Joseph burst into a merry peal of laughter,-"I wish Mark's wife could hear that," cried he; "many a stranger thing than that has happened, and I should like to tell her so. Do you want to go with us, Lonny?" 
               "No, sir," was the prompt answer. 
                
               "Why not, pray?" said Uncle Joseph with surprise. 
               "I love to stay here best," said the happy little fellow. 
               Lonny had an instinctive dread of the place where he had endured such suffering. And what wonder that he shrank from leaving the Eden around him, within whose walls love had first breathed upon his heart, transforming his dreary waste into a paradise. Lonny could not forget the darkness which enshrouded his young life, and this remembrance but intensified his happiness, and rendered deeper the gratitude he cherished for his protectors. 
               All was bustle and activity at Squire Atherton's. Invitations had been sent out, far and near, for a social gathering at their house. It should be a splendid party-so they both agreed-as several distinguished gentlemen from abroad would be there. This was all Mrs. Atherton knew about it, as she gave her directions in fine spirits, determined that for once, Clifton people should see what she was capable of doing. Little did she dream what an event she was preparing to celebrate. The lovers had guarded well their secret, so that no suspicion of the truth entered her mind. Indeed, when Mr. Atherton remarked in a very quiet way, once, that he thought Mr. Thornton would make Lottie a good husband, she replied bitterly,-"Mr. Thornton has too much knowledge of the world to cast aside all the brilliant matches waiting but his offer, and marry one who spends most of her time in poor-houses and hovels; nobody would ever have thought of such a preposterous thing but yourself. Mr. Thornton, indeed! why, he's the very antipode of your sister." 
               Mr. Atherton smiled very complacently, as he thought of the surprise awaiting her, and the complete refutation it would prove to her estimate of his sister's worth. 
               Swiftly passed the days and hours, as Lottie, with a glowing cheek and throbbing heart, crossed each familiar threshold. Many a word of kindness and love, long afterwards remembered; many a substantial token of sympathy, softly pressed into the parting hand, marked her shining path. And when-the last act of duty performed-she sought her silent chamber, not the magnificent trousseau-her brother's generous gift, nor the pearls with which her lover thought fitly to adorn her, filled her thoughts in that solemn hour. Alone, in His presence, where oft she had found her daily strength, she knelt, and the heart's deep, sacred communings, as she bowed there, none may know. 
               "Oh dear, dear!" exclaimed Mrs. Atherton in dismay, looking out of the window,-"what can have sent Joseph and his wife here to-day-the very day of our party! I never can endure the mortification of introducing them to our guests." 
               "Laws sakes, Miss Atherton," said Nurse Walton, who was there 'helping,' and who overheard the remark, "'taint none o' my business, I spose, but I sh'd think you'd be proud to show such nice relations to them whiskered looking furreners that come here." 
               "You can give your opinion when it is asked," haughtily replied Mrs. Atherton, "but I will thank you to attend to your duties now." 
               "Yes'm," said nurse, retreating; "but I know," she added in an under tone, "who's got most to be ashamed on." 
               "Seems to me you look quite fixed up here, Louisa," said Joseph, after they had exchanged salutations, "what's going on now?" 
               "We have invited some of our friends to visit us this evening, most unfortunately," was the freezing reply. 
               "Oh, you needn't be sorry on our account, Louisa," good-naturedly added he, "Henny and I would like right well to see one of your grand parties; we're just in the nick of time, ain't we, Henny?"-and his eye twinkled with fun. 
               "Perhaps you would like to go up stairs and rest yourself after your long ride, Mrs. Atherton," said the lawyer's wife with cold politeness. 
               "If you please, replied Henrietta, "but where is Lottie?" 
               "In her room, I presume; I have not seen her today." 
               A gentle knock at her door was immediately answered by Lottie, who greeted the new comer with a warm welcome. 
               "How kind you and Joseph are," said she, "to leave all your cares, and come here just for my sake." 
                
               "Bless your dear heart," affectionately replied Henrietta, "we couldn't think of staying away from your wedding; you can't think how strange it seems to me to have you married. I do hope you will be happy in your choice." 
               "Thank you, dear sister," said Lottie, blushing; "when you see Mr. Thornton you will not doubt it." 
               "What is this whim of Mark's, about the secrecy of your marriage?" 
               "I don't quite understand it myself," said Lottie, "but you know his wife has some peculiar views, and he hopes in this way to surprise her out of them." 
               "I don't see how." 
               "Perhaps by opening her eyes suddenly to the fact, that the 'Golden Rule' is not always contemned by the higher classes." 
               "Explain yourself, Lottie; I don't understand yet,-surely, the higher classes must believe in the Bible," exclaimed the simple-hearted woman. 
               "Not always," replied Lottie, smiling; "at least they don't believe in carrying out its principles into practice. But when my blessed mother died," continued she, going to her drawer, and taking from it a small parcel, "she left, as a dying legacy to me, her youngest child, this rule of action, praying with her last breath, that I might ever be guided by it." 
               Tears trembled in Lottie's eyes, as she unfolded from its covering a delicate frame, in which were enclosed, written in letters of gold, these words- 
               "'WHATSOEVER YE WOULD THAT OTHERS SHOULD DO UNTO YOU, DO YE EVEN SO TO THEM,'-A dying mother's legacy." 
               "And nobly have her children fulfilled their trust," said Henrietta, wiping away the answering tears. 
               "Mark's wife," pursued Lottie, "was brought up under very different influences; she was always taught to regard the poor as an inferior class, to be treated but little better than the beasts which labor for us. I think it is the fault of her early education, rather than an error in heart, that her prejudices are so strong towards those below her station." 
               "Very likely," rejoined Henrietta; "but what has all that to do with this whim of Mark's? I'm sure I don't see." 
               "Why, you must know," smilingly replied Lottie, "that the little I have done-and little indeed it is-for the alleviation of human misery, has destroyed my caste with her, and, as she believes, with all the more refined portion of society. So my good brother has an idea, that the shock of seeing his humble sister honored with the hand of one of the most gifted in the higher ranks, will at least disturb all her preconceived notions of propriety." 
               "Well, I'm sure I hope it will," said Henrietta; "but is Mr. Thornton really so great? I shall be almost afraid of him." 
               "Yes, he is great," said Lottie, laughing, "according to my ideas of greatness; he has a heart large enough to embrace the whole human family, and a hand ever open to the wants of the needy." 
                
               "Oh, Aunt Henny!" cried Nettie, bounding into the room, "I didn't know you was here till just now,-I'm so glad to see you!" and she sprang into her lap with a warm kiss of welcome. 
               "How you have grown, you beauty," exclaimed Aunt Henny, clasping her arms about her, "you blessed little darling." 
               How those warm words, and the warmer clasp, sank into the child's heart. "Dear Aunt Henny," said she caressingly, "how dearly I do love you, and Uncle Joseph too; I'm so glad you've got Lonny to love you too." 
               "Sure enough," exclaimed Lottie, "I had forgotten to ask about him." 
               "He's the best little fellow you ever saw," said Henrietta, "and I really think he loves us almost as well as if we were his own father and mother." 
               "I dare say he does, quite as well," said Lottie; "you are the only parents he has ever known; he will be a great blessing to you yet." 
               "He is now," replied Henrietta warmly. "I wouldn't part with him for any thing." 
               Nettie's eyes sparkled with joy,-"Oh, aunty," cried she, "please tell mother how good he is, and then maybe she'll let him be my cousin." 
               "Not yet, dear," replied her aunt evasively, "wait till she sees him herself." 
               Mrs. Atherton, arrayed in costly robes, received with the air and manner of a princess, the brilliant guests who, that evening, thronged her splendid drawing-rooms. Every arrangement had been made in perfect accordance with her own exquisite taste, and she flattered herself there was nothing to offend the nicest connoisseur. She had studied for effect, and her labor was rewarded in the evident admiration of her distinguished visitors. But for the ill-timed visit of Joseph Atherton and his wife, whom, to her extreme mortification, she was obliged to introduce as relatives, her satisfaction would have been complete. Lottie, she had not even thought of, except to hope that some poor laborer's sick child might require her presence that evening. 
               "Where can Mr. Thornton be?" she asked her husband, as an hour passed, and he had not made his appearance. 
               "Sure enough, where is he?" repeated several ladies near her. 
               "Don't give yourselves the least uneasiness about Mr. Thornton, ladies," said Mr. Atherton, laughing; "he is doubtless wailing with all the patience of a Benedict, his lady's pleasure." 
               "What lady? who do you mean, Mr. Atherton?" said one. 
               "What lady? why, the one he's engaged to, to be sure; he has promised to present her here this evening." 
               "Who is it? who is it? do tell us, Mr. Atherton," cried several in a breath, while they crowded around him. 
                
               "Mr. Thornton might well feel flattered, to see the agitation his engagement causes among such a bevy of beauties," said Mr. Atherton, withdrawing to his wife's side. 
               "Louisa," said he in a low voice, "whatever happens here to-night, control yourself." 
               Before his wife had time to reply, Mr. Atherton was at the farther end of the room, conversing with the clergyman. In a few moments the door was thrown open, and Melville Thornton entered, supporting on his arm a lady, clad in magnificent bridal costume. The orange wreath and bridal veil concealed her features from Mrs. Atherton, who advanced to greet the new comers with her usual stately air. It was well her husband was at hand, to grasp her arm and whisper again-"Control yourself." But for that, she must have fallen to the floor in her paralyzing astonishment, as she saw Charlotte Atherton thus arrayed. The murmur of admiration which ran around the room, as the fair, beautiful face of the bride was recognized, recalled her to herself, and with ill-concealed chagrin, she approached the couple. 
               "You have really played off quite a game upon me," said she sneeringly, "pray, allow me to congratulate you." 
               "Louisa, Louisa," whispered her husband hurriedly, "remember where you are; I will explain it all by and by." 
               "Don't trouble yourself, sir," haughtily replied she, disengaging her arm, and retreating to another part of the room. 
               Mr. Atherton was nonplussed; he had expected his wife to be astonished, agitated perhaps, but that she would so completely lose her self-possession, in the presence of her guests, he never dreamed. Neither dreamed he of the bitter hatred which then sprang up in her heart, towards the noble pair. 
               "Shall we proceed?" asked the clergyman, in an embarrassed manner. 
               "Certainly, sir," replied Mr. Atherton; "this little surprise which we planned for my wife, has quite overcome her, as you see; but proceed, sir, at once, if you please;" 
               The few, simple words, so fraught with meaning to those whose destinies they thus united, were soon spoken, and Melville Thornton received "Heaven's best gift" with deep, earnest thankfulness. Nor, save in one heart, did a thought of the bride's unworthiness mingle with the sincere congratulations bestowed on the happy pair. Charlotte Atherton, the friend of the poor, was indeed worthy, as all hearts acknowledged, the high and noble position of Melville Thornton's wife. 
               "'Taint none O' my business, I 'spose," said old nurse, who had put her head in unobserved at the door, "'taint none o' my business, but that is the blessedest sight my old eyes ever sot on." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "My bride, my wife, in sacred bond thou art my own, 
                        And blest, 'mid sylvan shades, shall be thy bridal home, 
                        Our aim the highest, best that can our lives employ, 
                        In each we'll live, with others share our cup of joy." 
                     
                   
                
               LOOK, Melville," exclaimed his bride, as, at the close of a weary day's journey, which completed their bridal tour, the carriage wound slowly along an avenue, lined on either side with gracefully bending willows, "was there ever any thing more beautiful? See what a triumphal arch those green boughs wave over our heads, while their leaves are dancing in the sun's deep shadow like fairy life; and how charmingly that elegant mansion looks, embowered in its sylvan home, and fanned by those same graceful boughs. What can be more lovely!" added she, raising her eyes, full of enthusiastic delight, to her husband. 
               "I see something, this moment, that looks more lovely in my eyes," he replied, affectionately pressing her hand; "but really, Willow Glen seems to give us its brightest smile to-night; I never saw it look more charmingly." 
                
               "Willow Glen! what an appropriate name for this beautiful retreat! Pray, who resides there?" asked Lottie, as her eye ran delightedly over each new object in the varying landscape. 
               "I believe it is not occupied just now, though I'm told it will soon be," replied her husband; "but I'm fearful my sweet wife will get so enchanted with this Elysium, she will be disappointed in her own home," and his tone was just a little reproachful. 
               "No, indeed," cried Lottie, quickly withdrawing her gaze, "could I choose, it would be a humbler home than that." 
               "Why so, pray?" he asked with surprise. 
               "Because, one must possess great riches to dwell there." 
               "And wouldn't you like to possess great riches, Lottie?" 
               "No, Melville; with riches come temptations and responsibilities, requiring more grace than I fear is in my heart, to resist the one and sustain the other." 
               "Well said, my little philosopher; but supposing riches should come to you without your seeking, what then?" 
               "Why, then, as a steward, I should strive to use them as would best please the Lord of the treasury, earnestly praying, that with the gift, needed grace might be bestowed." 
               "Oh Lottie, I believe you are little less than an angel," exclaimed Melville Thornton, with deep emotion. 
               Just then the carriage, which had been gradually approaching the house, stopped before the flight of steps which led to the front entrance. Gayly leaping out, Mr. Thornton took his wife's hand, saying, 
               "Come, wife, we will get a better view of the place now; let's see how it looks inside." 
               "Excuse me," said she, shrinking back into the carriage, "I have no curiosity that would lead me to intrude into such a residence as this." 
               "I am sorry for that," he replied; "but just stop one moment, to please me, and we will hasten on as soon as you choose." 
               Thus appealed to, his wife hesitated no more, and taking his arm, they ascended the steps to the door, in which stood a middle-aged woman, with a pleasant, smiling countenance. 
               "Ah, Mrs. Dunn," said Mr. Thornton, shaking her hand cordially; "here you are, faithful at your post. See what a treasure I have brought to cheer the old place! This is my wife; and Lottie, dear, this is our excellent housekeeper, who has lived under this roof since your husband was a boy. Come, now for some good warm supper." 
               No wonder Mrs. Dunn was astonished at the bewildered look, with which 'Mr. Melville's' bride received her respectful salutation, without so much as answering a word. 
               "Come, Lottie," said he at length, with a cheerful laugh, "confess that I am as good to plan a surprise as your brother Mark. Please walk into your own parlor, and henceforth rule this house as best beseems you, its worthy, lovely mistress." 
               "Why, Melville! you surely do not mean"-she began. 
               "Yes, I do surely mean," he interrupted, "that Willow Glen, which, much to my delight, you have been admiring the last half hour, is, with the heart of its master, all your own. Now, Lottie, what say you to the 'humbler home?' do you still 'choose' it?" he asked, smilingly. 
               "The heart's home," she replied, "is ever where the loved one dwells. I had pictured to myself a pleasant, rural cottage, where, in mutual confidence and love, we should spend a tranquil, happy life; but I fear, Melville, you have not chosen a fit mate for this gilded cage." 
               "Birds of gay plumage, you know, Lottie, are not those of sweetest song. Would that my 'cage' were but worthy the gentle, beautiful mate I have placed in it. But let us look around, wife, and see how nearly I have appreciated your exquisite taste. Here is the boudoir, designed exclusively for yourself, with all its useful and convenient appendages. Here, opening from it, the library, where we may together spend many a happy hour with these silent voices. Then, for our friends, whom we hope to welcome here, these rooms are fitted, as I thought you would like to have them. Your delicate, womanly taste, will of course suggest many improvements in all these arrangements, and I beg you to remember that your wishes are to be the guide of our happy home." 
               "Nay, nay, Melville," she rejoined, "say no more; I am already so overpowered with astonishment, that I can find no words to express my feelings. Every thing is perfect here-far too beautiful for your dowerless bride." 
               "Dowerless," repeated he with emotion; "why, Lottie! no wife ever brought to her husband's heart and home such a treasure as I have received in you." 
               "Heaven grant it may prove so," she added earnestly. 
               The old homestead to which Melville Thornton brought his bride, had been for several years untenanted, save by the faithful housekeeper to whom we have been introduced. Soon after the death of his father, in a fit of deep dejection, Melville went abroad, simply telling his housekeeper to remain, and take care of the place till his return, sooner, or later. As year after year passed, and no tidings came from him, all, save Mrs. Dunn, predicted his untimely end; but she pertinaciously averred her belief that 'Mr. Melville' would yet return, and spend many happy years under the old roof. The event justified her expectations, as, after an absence of nearly ten years, Melville Thornton suddenly appeared before her. The darkening sun of warmer climes had browned his cheeks; the delicate frame, which at twenty indicated fragility, had now swelled to the robust, athletic form of maturity, and as the delighted housekeeper expressed it, "Mr. Melville had grown to look just like them handsome furrinurs." The place had changed too, in his absence. Uncultivated, save here and there a patch, the weeds had luxuriated in their unbounded liberty, and over all the grounds, like a weeping multitude, the willow spread its branches, sighing with each breeze for the master's return. The mute welcome which their graceful boughs seemed to wave, as at last he reached his home, suggested to Melville Thornton's grateful heart the beautiful name he would hereafter give this lovely spot. So Willow Glen, restored to more than its primitive beauty, under the artistic eye of its master, became the abode of happiness, deep and lasting as were the worth and loveliness of the bride he welcomed there. 
               In her elegant home, surrounded with every luxury watchful love could devise, Charlotte Thornton forgot not her life's great aim. In the hour of twilight, as their first happy day drew to its close, she gently placed a little package in her husband's hand, saying with a smile as she did so, 
               "There, Melville, your wife, though dowerless, is not quite portionless; see what a gift." 
               "What is this!" he exclaimed, as his eyes rested on the golden letters, shimmering in that dim light. 
               "My mother's legacy," replied she, with deep emotion. 
               "A noble legacy indeed," said he, gazing more earnestly at the glowing letters; "this then is the secret of your faultless life." 
               "Oh, Melville, call not a life so full of imperfection as mine, faultless. Vainly do I strive to make this golden rule the guide of my life. Its words daily condemn me. But now that I am so strong in you," she added, with a look of confiding love, "I may yet hope to redeem that sacred trust." 
               "Together then, let us receive the golden legacy," said her husband, tenderly clasping his arm about her, "and thus richly endowed, may our future lives be the fulfilment of that sainted mother's prayers." 
               Joy and gratitude commingled in the tears which the happy wife shed, as Mr. Thornton reverently placed the frame in a conspicuous position in their elegantly furnished drawing-room, and carefully covered it with a glass case. 
               "There," said he, "let that be the talisman which shall open many a sealed heart, and cause the blush of shame to mantle on the cheek of many a selfish and worldly guest, who may enter these rooms." 
               Joy, love, and peace, clasped hands over this noble consecration, and evermore folded their wings beneath the charmed roof. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "On charitable lists,-those trumps which told 
                           The public ear who had in secret done 
                           The poor a benefit, and half the alms 
                           They told of, took themselves to keep them sounding, 
                           He blazed his name." 
                        
                      
                     POLLOK. 
                   
                
               "THEY do say," said Miss Pitkins to her next neighbor, at a meeting of the Ladies' Benevolent Society, a few months after Melville Thornton's marriage, "they do say, that Miss Thornton is a dreadful stuck-up thing." 
               "Yes," replied the other, "and hadn't a cent to her back neither, when she came there. Such people always do hold their heads higher'n anybody else, if they happen to get a little money. For my part, I wouldn't take no notice of her if she should come near me. I'd let her know that some folks was as good as others,"-and Miss Tompkins gave her head a most significant toss. 
               "Hadn't a cent!" repeated Miss Pitkins, with surprise, "why, what was that story about her rich legacy?" 
               "Oh, la! I know all about that," Miss Tompkins replied with a consequential air; "'twas just nothing at all." 
               "Do tell us about it," cried several ladies, who had gathered around the speakers to hear the news. 
               "Why, you see, I got Dolly Martin her place there with the old housekeeper, a-purpose so I could know something that's going on. So when Mr. Thornton brought his wife home, I says to her, 'Dolly, keep your eyes and ears open,' and she did. Well, the very first day, after Miss Thornton had been round and seen all the fine things he bought for her, I s'pose she felt kind o' shamed, so she brings a nice little bundle and gives it to him, telling him that's her legacy. Dolly says he looked real pleased when he first opened it, and she could see through the key-hole something shining just like gold; but pretty soon he said something to Miss Thornton that made her cry, and then he got up and put it on the mantel-shelf. Dolly didn't dare to stay any longer, for fear they would come out and catch her, but she went in afterwards to see what it was." 
               "Well, what was it?-what was it?" cried the eager listeners, as Miss Tompkins suddenly stopped. 
               "I would call this meeting to order," said the president, whose reproving glance had silenced the loquacious spinster; "we have several items of business to be disposed of, which may as well be done now. I should like to hear the opinion of the ladies, as to the appropriation of our present funds, and also the object to which we will devote our labors during the coming year. We have in the treasury about seventy-five dollars, which, rightly used, may do much to advance the cause we profess to love. The meeting is open for discussion on this point." 
               "I hear," said Mrs. Robinson, the deacon's wife, "that we have many families in town who, from sickness, hard times, and other causes, are suffering, in some cases at least, for the necessaries of life. I think that sum, even doubled, or trebled, would be well applied in relieving their wants." 
               "This is a matter in which we are all equally interested," remarked the president blandly; "we hope to hear from each of you." 
               "It's my decided opinion," said Mrs. Wormwood, "that in a thriving place like this, where work is plenty, there is no excuse for poverty like what Mrs. Robinson speaks of. For my part, I go against encouraging idleness." 
               "I thought we were at work-for the poor heathen," suggested Miss Pitkins; "I'm sure I shouldn't have made so much effort to attend these meetings, if I hadn't supposed so." 
               "A box of clothing for the missionaries, I should like best," added Miss Tompkins. 
               "There seems to be such a division of opinion among you," said the chair, "that I will venture to make a suggestion. I see our estimable pastor coming; why not refer the whole matter to him? His judgment must surely be better than ours, for his position gives him a comprehensive view of both home and foreign wants." 
                
               This happy expedient was well received, and Rev. Mr. Flint, as he appeared, was at once chosen their arbiter. Gray hairs and wrinkled brow, so oft the type of wisdom, did but render more conspicuous and revolting the hard, restless eye, the sinister mouth, and the whole contour of selfishness which bespoke the inner nature of this professed man of God. Dollars and cents was the gauge of men's souls in his estimation-money the only evidence of worth! Alas! that among the holy brotherhood of God's ministering servants, even one such should be found,-one whose sheep's clothing could not conceal the wolf beneath. All honor would we render to that noble class of self-denying men, who shrink not from the call of their Master, though earthly reward pertain not to his service. But when some ministerial Judas turns the house of God into a temple of money-changers, sharp indeed should be the scourge-which should drive him thence. 
               Naturally enough, the people under Rev. Mr. Flint's charge, with here and there a noble exception, had partaken somewhat of his nature. External religious forms were most scrupulously observed, but the gentle, peaceable fruits of the Spirit were fearfully wanting. 
               But while we are thus digressing, eager faces are looking to their pastor for his decision. His worthy coadjutor, the very devoted president, is "sure his extensive knowledge and sound judgment will render it easy for him to point out at once the fittest object for their benevolence." 
               Rolling his tongue hi the peculiar manner he was wont to do when pleased, he "thanked the president for her compliment, and would only say, that he considered the ladies present fully competent to decide their own case." 
               "Do you not think," asked Mrs. Robinson, "that we should take care of the poor among us, before we send our charities abroad?" 
               "Not always," replied Mr. Flint; "there is much danger in helping our poor neighbors, lest we learn them to depend on us, instead of trying to help themselves." 
               "That's just what I said," chimed in Mrs. Wormwood; "folks haint any business to be poor here, where they can get work." 
               "Work is plenty, to be sure," said Miss Priscilla Page, with a significant glance at the last speaker; "pity the pay wasn't plenty too." 
               "I would beg the ladies' attention to the subject under discussion," remarked the chair; "Mr. Flint has not yet given us his opinion, which I hope he will do freely." 
               "As you have called upon me most unexpectedly, ladies, to advise you in this matter," said Mr. Flint, rising very deliberately, "it would be natural for me to mention the subject which, just at this time, interests me most. Our society-and I say it without boasting-has become one of the largest, wealthiest, and most influential in all the State. It becomes us, therefore, to send a good name abroad, by the liberality with which we enter into the spirit of the great reforms of the day. Among these reforms, none seems to me so important as a union of the two continents, in one great 'Society for evangelizing the world.' Such a society, you know, exists, and in its councils are found some of the greatest men of the age. One hundred dollars would constitute your pastor a life-director in this society, and give you a name and influence in its councils. I merely mention this subject for your consideration, as we are apt to forget the duties we owe the world, and confine ourselves to a narrow circle of benevolence." 
               Here Mr. Flint took his seat, with an air of profound humility. 
               "You have heard the very excellent remarks of our pastor," said the president; "I hope it will enlarge our views of duty. Will you take any action on this subject?" 
               "I move," said Mrs. Wormwood, "that we contribute one hundred dollars to this great object Mr. Flint has explained to us, to constitute him a life-director." 
               The motion was seconded, and carried without any opposition, save that expressed by indignant looks and motionless hands. 
               "Really, ladies," said Mr. Flint, again rising, "your liberality is praiseworthy. In the name and behalf of the noble society you have honored by your generous vote, I tender you my sincere thanks. Your testimony of respect for myself will receive a more public acknowledgment." 
               "Yes," muttered Miss Priscilla, in an under tone, "I 'spose it will be trumpeted all over creation, how very benevolent we are, while these poor folks around us are dying from neglect." 
               "Oh, Miss Tompkins," whispered a young lady, "I am dying to know what that legacy was of Mrs. Thornton's; do tell me now, won't you?" 
               "Oh yes, yes, tell us all now," said another, as a knot of ladies gathered around her. 
               "Oh, 'twas nothing but just a little brass frame, with a verse from the Bible in it, made of brass letters," replied Miss Tompkins, contemptuously. 
               "Well, that was mean!" "Who ever heard any thing like it?" "What impudence!" "I don't wonder he was angry!"-these and many other similar expressions burst from the indignant ladies, as Miss Tompkins concluded her information. 
               "One side of a story is good till t'other's told," cried Miss Priscilla, who had heard the whole thing; "and as this is a benevolent society, got up for the benefit of our fellow-creaturs, it wouldn't do no harm to tell the t'other side right here, let it hit where it will." 
               "Oh, by all means, let's have your story, Miss Priscilla," was the universal exclamation, amid cries of "order" from the president. 
               "I don't want to make no disorder," said she, turning to the president; "but if they'll all listen quietly, I'll tell the story as I heard it; and may be some of you'll find coats to fit: if you do, why put 'em on, that's all." 
               By this time eyes and ears were all open; for Miss Priscilla, an odd, quaint little body, had a way of saying things, that was perfectly irresistible to all but the immediate subjects of her sarcastic tongue. 
               "Well," said she, "as you all seem to be listening, I'll begin with what I see myself. I didn't get no Dolly Martins to peak through the key-hole for me, 'cause, you see, news that comes that way, has to be made all over after it squeezes through; and I don't like mine second hand, no how. So, as I was saying, I'll begin with what I see; and if any on you want to know what true benevolence is, you'll find out, I guess, before I get through. Well, a couple o' months ago, I should think, as I was coming home from my sister Sally's, over the fields, I took a notion to go down the lane where old Miss Fletcher lives, who's been sickly all along, you know, and so I went right into see her without knocking. When I got inside the door, I stood stock-still in perfect wonder; for there was her old room, fixed up as nice as could be-real white curtains and bedspread-a piece of carpet on the floor, and clean, nice dishes on her stand. And then the old lady herself looked so comfortable in her white night-cap and gown, I thought some fairy must have been there and done it all. But right close beside her bed sat one of the sweetest looking ladies you ever see; they didn't neither of 'em see me, so I kept still, and the lady read away in the Bible; and then she kneeled down and prayed-Oh, so beautifully! I didn't wonder a bit that the tears trickled down the sick woman's cheek, for I couldn't keep from crying myself. When she'd done, I slipped out as still as I went in, for I felt like an intruder there; and on my way home who should I meet but Polly Bemis, who was bedrid for I don't know how long. 'What on earth has set you on your feet again, Polly!' says I. 'I never was so amazed in all my life.' 'Well you may be,' says Polly, says she, 'for I'm amazed at myself; but come into my house, and I'll tell you all about it.' When we got in and sot down-'There, Priscilla,' says she, 'did you ever see a nicer room-bran-new stove, and wood enough in the cellar to burn all winter-this new rocking-chair, and that nice bit of carpet; and what's better'n all, here am I, able to walk about and earn my own living! Who do you think has done all this?' 'I guess,' said I, 'may be the Benevolent Society's been helping on ye.' 'No, not a bit of it,' says she; 'I might a' been lying on that bed now for all they'd a' done for me; 'tain't their kind o' benevolence to help such as me.' 'Well, do tell me who it was,' said I, growing impatient. ''Twan't nobody more nor less than Squire Thornton's new wife,' says Polly, says she. 'She found out how I was, and then she went and got something to cure me; and every day she come here herself to see how I got along, and brought me all these things; and when I got better, she gave me sewing to do, so as I should feel independent, she said.' I never was so beat in all my life, and I told Polly so. 'Oh, well,' says Polly, says she, 'if you'd known half she's done among the poor folks here, you'd be astonished; but she has such a still way with her, nobody but those she helps knows any thing about it.' Just that minute somebody knocked at the door, and in walked the very lady I saw at Miss Fletcher's. 'Good morning, Miss Bemis,' said she, 'how do you find yourself to-day?' 'Nicely-many thanks to you, Miss Thornton,' said Polly. 'Oh, no, not to me are your thanks due,' said the lady, with a sweet smile, 'but to Him who has restored your health.' And then she sat down, and talked like a saint to us both. I'd heard this very story you've been telling about her, Miss Tompkins, and I couldn't hardly believe my eyes and ears when I saw her; but I meant to find out the truth about it; so when she went away, I jest followed her out, and she asked me to walk home with her. I told her I should like to, if only for one thing. 'And what is that, pray?' said she. 'To see the curious legacy I've heard so much about,' said I; 'I s'pose you'd have no objections to show it to me.' 'You mean my mother's legacy, I suppose,' said she; 'I don't know what you have heard about it; but come with me, and I shall be most happy to show it to you.' And then, as we walked along, she told me what a good, pious mother she had,-how she tried to impress upon her children's minds the great object for which they should live-that the world might be better for their having lived in it. She wan't one mite stuck up, Miss Pitkins, 'cause when we got to her house, she axed me right into her grand parlor, and told me to sit right down in the best seat there was. I felt dreadful shamed when Mr. Thornton come into the room, and she told him what I'd come for; but he looked real pleased. 'That legacy, Miss Priscilla,' said he, 'is worth coming miles to see. If my wife had brought millions of gold to me, I should not have prized it as I do this little talisman, which has made so many hearts leap for joy, and changed so many abodes of misery into happy homes. The world has but few such gems, Miss Priscilla,' said he, as he took down from the mantel-shelf a small frame of solid gold, and handed it to me, 'and fewer still are they, whose lives are guided by these words, which shall usher in the earth's millennium.' I didn't know what to say, he talked so beautiful; but I made up my mind that that legacy was goin' to do more for poor people round here than all our benevolent societies together." 
               "But you haven't told us what the legacy was yet," said several. 
               "I told you that Mr. Thornton showed me a frame of solid gold:-well, in this frame were these words, all written in solid gold, too,-I wish you would all attend, 'cause I'm afraid our golden rules have been made of lead, or somethin' worse,-this was it:-'WHATSOEVER YE WOULD THAT OTHERS SHOULD DO UNTO YOU, DO YE EVEN SO TO THEM.' Did you ever hear those words before, Mr. Flint?" asked the spinster, with a mischievous look. 
               "You are very facetious, Miss Page," replied he, "I presume we have them graven on all our hearts." 
               "When you voted, just now, to let our poor folks suffer and die in their poverty, and send such a lot of money to a rich society, jest to buy us a great name, I didn't see how we could reconcile it with such a rule," said Miss Priscilla. 
               "Oh, fie! for shame, Miss Priscilla!" exclaimed several voices, while the sanctimonious president looked with holy horror upon the audacious speaker. 
               "You take a very narrow view, you must allow me to say, Miss Priscilla, of the vast system of benevolence that rule enjoins," said Mr. Flint, with feeling; "but we pardon the allusion in consideration of your ignorance of these matters. Shall we close this meeting?" he continued, addressing the president. 
               What but cold, solemn mockery, to Him whose bosom glows with sympathetic love for the suffering child of poverty, were the words of this world-hardened, money-loving, professed disciple, as he besought a blessing upon their benevolent operations. 
               Would that from imagination only this picture were drawn; but, alas for human nature, even here truth is stranger than fiction! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Thanksgiving day! Thy name, how blest with mem'ries sweet, 
                        As round the homestead's festal board doth grateful meet 
                        The fam'ly kin, from infant sweet, with scarce a name, 
                        To the gray-haired grandsire, who rev'rent bows his frame 
                        Before high Heaven's Courts, his trembling voice to raise 
                        In accents full of heartfelt thanks and grateful praise. 
                        Profane it not! nor let its sacred joys pass by 
                        Unfelt by those who live in want-in misery die." 
                     
                   
                
               THANKSGIVING! how the golden chords of memory vibrate with the joyous echo! how, in the long vista of departed years, we see our path thickly studded with these bright oases, drawing nearer and nearer together, in defiance of all laws of perspective, as they approach the foreground of life's great picture! 
               Thanksgiving! how, as with a conjurer's touch, does the bright fire gleam upon us; loving, familiar voices greet our ear, and all the glad surroundings of feasting and mirth burst upon our vision, as we breathe that word! How do hearts which ne'er grow old, beneath the silver crown of years, seem radiant with the dew of youth, as in these happy reunions, sire and grandsire mingle with their little flock in the festive scenes! 
               But thanksgiving at Daisyside was no mere family gathering. Dearly as Joseph Atherton loved to draw around him the familiar faces of his kindred, there was something which gave to his noble heart, deeper, more enduring joy. He loved, better than aught else, to raise the sinking heart, cheer the drooping spirit, and cause the eye, dimmed with misery's tear, upward to cast its look of hopeful trust. And when the yearly jubilee came round, which called to each household hearth its happy band, then were the homeless and friendless made to feel, that at his board they were feasting with an elder brother. 
               "But thanksgiving at Daisyside should be celebrated this year as it had never been," said the grateful farmer, as he viewed the rich harvest of his toils-barns and storehouses overflowing with plenty. 
               "And then there is another reason," added his wife, as Lonny, in the gladness of a freed spirit, bounded towards them. 
               "Yes," replied Joseph Atherton; "and do you know, I more than half believe we are entertaining an angel unawares, in that boy. Why, every thing has gone right with me since he came,-not a cross, or perplexity, that I can think of, to mar our prosperity and "happiness." 
               Again that low, pleasant laugh, as Henrietta replied, "It's only because you wont see trouble any where. But," she continued, fondly caressing the boy, "Lonny 
                  is a treasure, and he shall see what a thanksgiving we'll make for him. Now, what do you want most of any thing in the world, Lonny?" 
               Had this question been put to the boy a year ago, he could quickly have answered-"Food and raiment, and friends to love me;" but now that these were his in abundance, he only looked up wonderingly as he answered, "Nothing." 
               "Nothing?" repeated she, while a bright smile shone upon her face, "have we then so nearly satisfied this young heart? But think again, Lonny, isn't there any body you want to see?" 
               Again the little face was raised to hers,-"No, ma'am, unless Nettie would come here to see me." 
               "And what if she would?" 
               "Oh, then I should be so glad!" cried Lonny, clapping his hands. 
               "Don't you understand, wife?" said Joseph, laughing, "he doesn't want any thing that'll take him away from here." 
               "Bless his heart, he shan't go away from here while I live. Daisyside would be dreadful lonely without him now." And the warm-hearted woman clasped the happy boy affectionately to her heart. 
               "Take care, wife, you mustn't forget that you were well enough contented with Daisyside before this little fellow came," said her husband, throwing his arms about them both, as he brushed a tear from his eye. 
               "You love him as well as I do," was her quiet smiling rejoinder. 
                
               "To be sure I do, wife; we've got ten years of love to make up to him, and I mean to do my share of it. But what has this all to do with thanksgiving?" 
               "Much, every way, I think; at least I shall be mistaken if we do not find deeper cause of thankfulness in our hearts than ever." 
               "Why, to be sure," said Joseph, "and therefore I'm determined to have a grand time of it. Let's see-Nettie shall be here, that's certain; and Mark, with his proud wife and boy; and Lottie, with her lucky husband; and what's more'n all, I'm going to have my old nurse too. Mark 'll like that, I know." 
               "What! Nurse Walton? Why Joseph! Mark's wife would think you was crazy." 
               "Let her think then; she'll see worse things than that if she comes to our thanksgiving." 
               "But what if she refuses to come, when she knows who you've invited?" 
               "Let her stay away, then. I wouldn't have her here if it wasn't for Mark, any more'n I'd throw a great black snake into a nest of chickens. I know what I'll do; I'll write to Mark, and let him manage it for us; but have old nurse I must." 
               Since the first ebullition of feeling, at what she termed the insult offered her in her own house, Mrs. Mark Atherton had never alluded to the marriage, or even existence of her husband's sister. The relief she experienced in being rid of an example so repugnant to her proud heart, and, as she deemed it, so fraught with danger to her children, lessened somewhat the mortification she felt at the ruse. Peace had pervaded her household; but it was that peace whose calm surface did but hide the turbid waters beneath; into which, if but a ripple came, forth would spring its bitter founts. Something of this Mark Atherton feared, and when his brother's letter came, filled with genial warmth, sincere and hearty in its tone, he looked to his wife, not without misgivings, for her assent to the cordial invitation. The haughty, curling lip, and scornful smile, with which she received the message, told but too well the bitterness her heart still cherished. 
               "Thanksgiving at Joseph Atherton's!" she exclaimed, sneeringly, " I've no fancy for such poor-house festivals. They'll do for him, now, with his pauper child, but he needn't expect us to share his degradation, any farther than our relationship forces us to." 
               "Joseph has not degraded himself," mildly replied her husband; "no man in T-- has a better reputation than my brother." 
               "You and I can never think alike about such things," said she, "we were brought up very differently." 
               "Well, we won't discuss them now," he added, "as we must decide upon an answer to this letter. Will you go, Louisa?" 
               Hard indeed must have been the heart, impervious the breast, that could withstand the tone of gentle entreaty with which this was uttered. But Mrs. Atherton unhesitatingly answered, "No, I will not." 
               For a moment Mr. Atherton's head dropped upon his hand; then with a mild, but resolute voice, he spoke,-"I must go without you then, Louisa." 
               "You can do as you please," was her freezing reply, "I never presume to control your movements." 
               "Have the children ready then, for we shall leave on Wednesday morning." 
               "The children will not go, Mr. Atherton," said she quickly; "they shall not be contaminated with those vile people." 
               "The children will go, Mrs. Atherton," exclaimed her husband, with a decision that was not to be questioned. 
               Thanksgiving at Daisyside! Why should not the poor in spirit rejoice as the glad sound echoed from lip to lip, and from heart to heart; for then, over their dark path of weariness and woe, beamed the soft radiance of a heavenly light. Then, through each lonely heart, stole the sweet, gentle breathings of sympathy and love, strengthening its weary future with the foretaste of a bright hereafter. How many happy souls, redeemed from the sin and misery of an unblessed existence here, will louder tune their notes of joy, as in their bright robes they welcome home him who first pointed their way thither, smoothing the rugged path over which their Master called them to their reward! Blessed indeed were the noble hearts at Daisyside, for many had they thus guided onward. 
               A carriage slowly ascended the hill. Its approach, however, had been telegraphed through the house, and eager faces were bending forward to catch the first glimpse of its inmates. 
               "It's Mark," said Joseph Atherton, rubbing his hands delightedly. 
               "There's Nettie-I see her! Oh dear, dear, how glad I be!" cried Lonny, jumping up and down in his joy. 
               "I wonder if Mark's wife has come," said Henrietta, shading her eyes with her hand to see more clearly. "I'm sure 'twould be very kind in her to take so much trouble." 
               "Pshaw! Henny, 'twould be a great deal kinder of her to stay away; but there she is, on the back seat, and my goodness! if there aint old nurse right side of her! Well done, Mark!" and Joseph's hearty laugh reached the ears of his visitors. 
               "There's a welcome for you," exclaimed Mark Atherton, his face beaming with pleasure, "just such an one as I love." 
               "Laws sake!" said Nurse Walton, forgetting the silence she had felt constrained to keep during their ride, "Joe allers was just so cheery like,-'taint none o' my business I s'pose, but I wish there was lots more o' jest such in the world. But, laws sake! do look at that boy standin' side o' his wife,-'taint possible that's the child he tuk?" 
               "Oh, that's Lonny," cried Nettie, in happy unconsciousness of the frown gathering on her mother's face;-"don't he look pretty? prettier than Ally, I think." 
               "Lennette," and the voice made the child start and tremble, "haven't I told you how to treat that boy? Remember, or it will be your last visit to your uncle's." 
               "Laws sake! Miss Atherton, what hurt can it do Nettie to play with such a nice pretty boy?" 
               "I am capable of taking care of my own family, Mrs. Walton," replied the haughty lady, as the carriage drew up before the door. 
               "Now Mark, this is really kind in you," said his brother, as he warmly welcomed his visitors. 
               "I am sure we ought to be very much obliged to you for coming so far to see us," Henrietta added, as she conducted them into the house. 
               "I came on my children's account," was Mrs. Atherton's freezing reply. 
               "Dear little things! well, I am sure I hope they will have a good time, thanksgiving. Lonny has got ever so many things to show them." 
               Unlucky speech. Kind, simple-hearted woman! 
               "I wish it understood once for all, and I may as well say it now,"-and Mrs. Atherton drew herself up with a commanding gesture as she spoke-"I have no sympathy with the low task you have undertaken, in attempting to raise that pauper foundling above his station, and I have forbidden my children any intercourse whatever with him. So you will oblige me, and prevent unpleasant consequences, by remembering this injunction." 
               "Well, I'm sure,"-Henrietta began, and then stopped in her confusion. 
               "'Taint no business o' mine I s'pose, but I sh'd think, Miss Atherton, you'd 'a kep your children to home if that's the way you mean to manage, 'cause children play together as nat'ral as kittens, and you can't keep 'em apart nohow,"-and old nurse nodded her head, as much as to say, "and I don't mean to either." 
               A scornful look was the only reply Mrs. Atherton deigned to give; but Albert, who had hitherto been silent and dogged, stepped towards her with an insolent air,-"I guess my mother knows what's right," said he; "you won't catch boys like me playing with beggars,"-and he pointed with a sneer toward the unoffending boy, who was the cause of this outbreak. 
               Nettie's little bosom heaved, and her blue eyes flashed indignantly at the unfeeling words and actions of her brother, but seeing her father just entering the room, she sprang with a quick revulsion of feeling into his arms, sobbing,-"It is too bad, isn't it father?" 
               "What's too bad, my love?" asked he anxiously, as he kissed her wet cheek,-"what makes you cry?" Then as he glanced around the group he added,-"Something has disturbed you all; what has occurred?" 
               Uncle Joseph's pleasant voice prevented a reply, as he entered, and with another hearty welcome greeted his guests, especially kind old Nurse Walton. 
               "Now we'll have a right good thanksgiving of it," said he joyfully, not seeing, or not wishing to see the cloud over their spirits,-"I expect Lottie and her grand husband every minute, and how pleased she'll be to find you all here." 
               Uncle Joseph's genial humor, irresistible as the sun's light and warmth, soon restored cheerfulness to the circle; but in two young hearts the impressions of that hour were ineffaceably stamped. The mother's throne in the heart of her child began then to totter. Woe! woe to that mother, if she chain not the demons which will ere long crush it to the earth!-Injustice and cruelty! Nettie-sweet, confiding, affectionate child that she was, could see it, feel it, and read it too in that mother's eye, with the quick instinct of a true, though childish heart. 
               And the orphan, whose years had been matured by early sorrow, how those heartless taunts woke the old, bitter spirit within him, and made him feel that his new world was not all brightness and joy. Quietly he stole away into the granary, where a half hour later his kind guardian found him in tears. 
               "Heydey, my boy!" exclaimed he cheerfully, "what's all this? crying, when Nettie's come? I thought you was going to be ever so happy." 
               "What is a 'pauper foundling,' Uncle Joseph?" asked Lonny, wiping his eyes, "and why don't Nettie's mother, want her to play with me? Am I a bad boy?" 
               "You a bad boy! that's what you aint, Lonny. Who put such notions into your head? Pauper foundling! who said that?" asked Uncle Joseph, rather sharply. 
               "Why, Nettie's mother said she mustn't play with me, 'cause I'm a 'pauper foundling.' I'm sure that means something bad, or she wouldn't have looked at me so cross, nor Ally neither,"-and the tears began to flow again. 
               "O, my goodness! if I wouldn't like to train that Jezebel once," exclaimed Joseph Atherton, now thoroughly angry;-"did she say such a thing before you? You just tell Mrs. Mark Atherton, and every body else, that you are Joseph Atherton's boy, and he'll see that you are treated well, and play with any body you like to. So wipe your eyes, Lonny, and be as smart as any of 'em; I'll take care of you; and remember, you're the best boy Uncle Joe knows." 
               Hope's light flashed again into the boy's heart; but the sting of those barbed words cannot be easily removed. 
               "This is your ideal of a Thanksgiving dinner, is it, Lottie?" said Melville Thornton, as, standing at the end of a long table, they gazed upon the busy scene before them. Busy indeed! where hearts and voices kept tune to the musical clatter of knives and plates. 
               "Yes, and if I may judge from your looks, Melville, you do not disagree with me," replied his wife smilingly. 
               "No, Lottie, I do not; I am charmed with your brother's mode of spending Thanksgiving. Why, I should be prouder far to preside over such a table in my own house, than to see it filled with aristocratic elegance. I don't wonder that Joseph and his wife look so happy to-day; this is something to live for;" and as he spoke, Mr. Thornton's eye glanced rapidly from face to face, reading everywhere the happy content of grateful hearts. One little face seemed strangely familiar to him; and as it turned towards him, and a pair of dark eyes met his, he exclaimed, "What child is that, Lottie! do you know? 
               "What! that little fellow looking so earnestly at you?" said his wife. "Why, that is the child brother Joseph has adopted. Isn't he a beauty?-poor fellow, he never spent such a day as this before." 
               "He interests me strangely, wife; where did your brother find him? 
               "His grandfather died in Clifton, in most destitute circumstances; and to save him from the poor-house, Joseph took him home. Wasn't he kind?" 
               "Very; but had he no parents?" 
               "From all I could gather, his birth was involved in mystery, if not shame; but I would not say that, even to brother Joseph." 
               "Very considerate in you, Lottie. I hope the poor boy will never know his degradation; he is certainly a most interesting child, and he could not be placed in better hands than Joseph's. But come, my heart warms towards these happy people; let's mingle in their pleasures." 
               "What a consummate fool your brother-in-law makes of himself to please his whimsical wife!" 
               Such was Mrs. Mark Atherton's exclamation, as Melville Thornton, with Nurse Walton on his arm, shook hands and chatted gayly with each of these, as she termed them, "world's outcasts." 
               "Oh, you'll find yourself in the minority here, Louisa isa," replied her husband cheerfully; "so you'd better give in. Come, Ally and Nettie, let's go and play blindman's-buff with those children;" and before the mother's outstretched arm could prevent, they were merrily frolicking with the proscribed race. 
               How must the recording angel, as his glowing pen swiftly transcribes the pure, unselfish joy of this scene,-how must he pause, ere he can trace the chill breathings of that worldly mother's heart! Alas! the fearful record is made, which tears nor penitence alone can ever erase. 
               Thanksgiving! Look at Joseph Atherton's happy face, beaming with the honest pride of a noble deed; or at the cheerful groups of those who, from cottage, hut, and by-ways, have been bidden to this feast of love,-not with the cold charity which says to its hungry brother, "eat and be satisfied," but with the tenderness which to the lonely heart whispers,-"Thou art my brother, thou my sister; come to the family-feast, and for once forget thy sorrows." Look at the refined and elegant Melville Thornton, whose words of cheerful hope and sympathy fall like heavenly dew upon those thirsty souls, reflecting in his own heart a joy which angels well may covet. Look, too, at the fair and happy one, whose busy hands have prepared this banquet, more honored than if kings and princes had been her guests. See hope's glad light kindling every eye, and Heaven's blessing warming each heart; and say, can aught on earth give deeper significance to the word, than "Thanksgiving at Daisyside?" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                  
                      
                        "There are two souls whose equal flow 
                        In gentle streams so calmly run, 
                        That when they part-they part!-ah, no! 
                        They cannot part-those souls are one." 
                     
                      
                        "I'll keep this secret from the world, 
                        As warily as those that deal in poison, 
                        Keep poison from their children." 
                     
                   
                
               FATHER TIME, as onward he pressed with rapid strides, gently laid the soft, silvery lines of care on familiar brows, while with his delicate pencillings he matured, and beautified the forms of childish innocence and grace. Ten times had he, in his yearly round, greeted those whom we left at Joseph Atherton's festive board; and at each new greeting his magic touch spanned the bright bow of peace over the good and pure, while it deepened the shadows on the worldling's path. 
               Ten years thus had passed since the events in our last chapter, when the gallant ship Neptune, gently cradling her precious burden, glided swiftly over the trackless ocean to her destined port. Like a thing of light she flew, her white wings outspread, as if to guard the sacred trust committed to her, anon riding in triumph the towering wave, or proudly measuring its depths,-on she sped, like a messenger of hope. 
               In one of the state-rooms, furnished with unusual elegance, reclined a beautiful maiden, unheeding the strife of the elements without, save when a sudden lurch of the vessel caused an exclamation of fear from her companion; then, with a merry laugh, the fair girl would "wonder if they should ever find themselves right side up again." 
               Lucille Mowbray had been left at an early age, under the care and guidance of a maiden aunt, the sister, and only surviving relative of Lucille's father. Of her mother's family little had been known, as Mr. Mowbray transplanted from her American home his meek, gentle, and lovely wife, only to smile upon him two short years, ere she was laid in the tomb of his fathers. Miss Mowbray watched with all a mother's care and tenderness over the little charge thus left to her, and when the doors of that last resting-place were again opened, and Mr. Mowbray laid beside his angel wife, she drew the orphan child closer to her breast, and earnestly vowed that no other tie should ever bind her to this earth. Well had she fulfilled her trust, ere death led her, too, into his silent chambers, and left Lucille sole survivor of her father's race. 
               The heiress of the Mowbrays, with almost unlimited wealth at her command, had been taught to view aright the deceitful smiles of the world, and she turned from its adulation with a heart yearning for kindred and friends. Suddenly a new thought took possession of her,-there might yet be some in whose veins flowed her mother's gentle blood. With a beating heart, she unlocked the escrutoire in which her father's private papers had been carefully kept, and finding there the clue she sought, her happy imagination o'erleaped all boundaries, and revelled in its bright anticipations of unselfish love. 
               Ah, Lucille! the broad Atlantic, on whose bosom you so confidingly rest, as with her deep-toned lullaby she soothes your unquiet heart, is not more fathomless than are the dark passions of the world whither you are hastening. Heaven defend thee from the fearful mlstroom! 
               "Now, Maggie," laughingly exclaimed the heiress, springing from her recumbent position, "I've caught you dreaming,-there you've been sitting the last half hour with a book before your eyes, but never a word do you know of its contents, I'll venture; pray, what can employ your thoughts so intently." 
               Margaret Singleton raised her eyes, full of tenderness, to her beautiful companion,-"I was thinking of you, Lucille," said she. 
               "And what of me, dear Maggie?" asked Lucille, affectionately clasping her hand. 
               "First, I was thinking of the surprise and regret your absence from Mowbray Hall would occasion a certain gentleman I could name, and then"- 
               "If you mean young Lord Hastings, Maggie," interrupted Lucille, "his surprise, or regret, are equally indifferent to me. He is selfish, Maggie,-it is the heiress he loves, not simple Lucille Mowbray." 
               "You cannot expect to be simple Lucille Mowbray, to those who know your wealth and station," said Maggie, smiling. 
               "Then I can never be loved unselfishly," sighed the heiress. 
               "Pardon me, dear Lucille; I meant no such thing. Were you a poor dependent, like myself, that purity of soul which mirrors itself in your dark eye, must command the heart's homage. I do not mean to flatter you, when I say that Lucille Mowbray is far more worthy of love than the heiress of Mowbray Hall." 
               "In your partial eyes, Maggie, I do not doubt it; but to me all hearts seem locked, only to be opened by the golden key I hold in my pocket. I sometimes wish I was poor, Maggie, and then I should not be so easily deceived." 
               "You would not breathe that wish again, Lucille, did you but know half the bitterness poverty brings its victims. But come, our wise heads will never devise a remedy for this monstrous evil, so let's charm it away with music divine," and Margaret Singleton took her guitar, and in a sweet clear voice, sang a lively air, while Lucille, in dreamy reverie, sank back upon her couch. 
               "I have it! I have it!" at length she gayly exclaimed, as the song ceased. "Oh, Maggie, what a capital idea!" and her merry laugh rang out its silvery notes through the ocean's roar. 
                
               "Pray, Lucille," cried Margaret, "what is it? let me laugh too over your new idea." 
               "Why, it's just this: I'm going to be the 'poor dependent' you call yourself, and you shall be the rich heiress-Miss Mowbray, don't you understand?" 
               "No, I cannot understand such a preposterous idea," exclaimed Margaret warmly. 
               "Now, Maggie dear, just please me this once, and you little know the happiness you may confer on me." 
               "But I cannot assume such a character, Lucille, though to please you I might try." 
               "Do but just make the trial," persisted the fair pleader," and I'll venture you. Your style of beauty, with the queenly air you sometimes wear, is more befitting the daughter of Sir Charles Mowbray, than my simple face and childish curls,"-and Lucille shook from its fastening her soft brown hair, covering her neck and shoulders with its wavy brightness. 
               "Beautiful as a fairy," Maggie exclaimed, with involuntary admiration. 
               Beautiful indeed was that sweet face, uplifted to hers, but far more beautiful the inner sanctuary of this lovely temple. 
               "There, Maggie darling," said Lucille, kissing her cheek, "you may flatter me as much as you please, if you'll only do as I wish you too." 
               "I do not comprehend you yet, Lucille," replied her companion, returning the caress;-"what is it you would have me do?" 
               "Help me to find out my true value," was the reply, so earnestly made that Maggie looked with astonishment at the fair speaker. 
               "How do you expect to do that?" she asked. 
               "If you would consent to change positions with me, dear Maggie, while we are among strangers, it would give me a most charming opportunity to know just what I am worth,-in the world's estimation I mean, without my possessions. The simple, unpretending companion of an heiress can see and hear many things, of which the heiress herself never dreamed. Say you will, dear Maggie, humor me in this whim, if you please to call it so; my heart is really set upon it." 
               "But you do not think what a serious annoyance it might prove to you, Lucille. Suppose you find, as you hope to, your mother's relatives." 
               Lucille bit her lip,-"I didn't think of that," said she; "but if we do fine them, it will be time enough then to disclose ourselves." 
               "What will you do with John?" 
               "Oh, I'll make some pretence to send him back, when we get quietly settled." 
               "Then, there are your letters to an attorney in Boston, and a Mr. Thornton-nobody knows where." 
               "You can deliver them, as Miss Mowbray, while I stand by and enjoy the sensation you will create as a great heiress. Won't that be capital?" cried Lucille, eagerly. 
               "It's rather a dangerous experiment, I fear," said Maggie, throwing her arm around her companion, "but to please my darling Lucille, I would do almost any thing." 
               "Then you consent?" joyfully exclaimed Lucille. 
               "I do, upon one condition," replied Maggie, "that if our ruse bring a shadow upon your heart, it shall be disclosed at once, and you resume your own name and position." 
               "I fear no shadows so much as those which Mowbray Hall and its estates make," laughingly rejoined Lucille. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "How quickly nature 
                           Falls to revolt, when gold becomes her object." 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
               THE legal profession, at the time of which we write, was scarcely among the aspirations of the common class of people. Intellect of a high order, wealth, and influential friends, were considered indispensable to its success. The last two requisites, with an imaginary allowance of the first, had many years before placed Richard Morton at the bar, and subsequently elevated him to the bench, evincing in his friends, as he declared, 'a most remarkable discernment and appreciation of talent.' 
               Judge Morton, then, to whom Miss Mowbray brought letters from her own solicitor, occupied a high position, in society, though not one spark of nature's nobility lighted his soul. 
               In happy contrast to the sordid spirit of the father, was the high-souled, manly heart of young Morton, his only son. Imperious and haughty as he often appeared in the artificial life he led at home, there yet flowed through his veins the warm beatings of a generous, impulsive nature. 
               Not so his associate in the study of his father's profession. Young Atherton, son of our old friend Mark, was just what his mother designed he should be-selfish, worldly, and proud. Judge Morton's character and position suited her well, and it was with no little satisfaction, therefore, that she persuaded him to receive Albert into his office. 
               The three occupants of that office were, one morning, busily engaged in their respective duties, when a servant entered, and placing a package on the desk of the elder; silently withdrew. 
               "What's this!" exclaimed the judge, as he unfolded a tiny note which accompanied the package, and read,-"Miss Mowbray will be happy to see Judge Morton at his earliest convenience." "I suppose, however, this will explain it," he added, breaking the seal of the other. "Ah! yes, yes, I see," he mused, while his eye ran delightedly over its contents. "Here's rich news for you boys; or rather for you, Dick, since Albert's heart has gone out of his possession." 
               "What is it, sir?" quickly exclaimed both students. 
               "The heiress of Mowbray Hall, one of the finest estates in England-worth an immense fortune, has arrived here, as this letter says, in search of her mother's relatives." 
               "But what have you to do with it, father?" asked Richard, while young Atherton's face bespoke the deep interest he felt. 
                
               "Her attorney, a Mr. Broughton, whom I knew when I was abroad, has written to request me to honor her drafts, and also to render her any assistance in my power; which you cannot doubt I shall do, while I have such a son," he added, with a meaning smile at Richard. 
               "Excuse me, sir," said Richard, haughtily; "I have no fancy for fortune-hunting; your attentions to Miss Mowbray need have no reference to me." 
               "You needn't put on such airs, Dick," retorted his father; "Miss Mowbray, I presume, will be willing that you should treat her with all the hauteur you please. For my part, I do not expect any thing from you." 
               "Thank you, sir," was the reply, in a bitter tone, as Richard Morton resumed his book. 
               "Can I be of any service to you, sir?" asked Albert, insinuatingly. 
               "You!"-and Judge Morton gazed steadily into the young man's face for a moment,-"Yes, you can perform a son's duty, refused by him. Come with me." 
               Albert saw the flush on young Morton's brow as they left his presence, but he knew not that for him mantled that blush of shame, or that, better than himself, Richard Morton read the dark workings of his unprincipled heart. 
               Brilliant lights gleamed through the windows of Judge Morton's aristocratic mansion,-carriages rolled in rapid succession to and from his stately door,-fair forms, resplendent with gems and jewels rare, flitted through his spacious drawing-rooms. Beauty and fashion reigned with magnificent sway over the elite assembled there. Judge Morton had opened his doors this evening in honor of the heiress, for whom he professed a deep interest. He had literally fulfilled the request of Miss Mowbray's attorney, and placed himself entirely at her service. Mrs. Morton and her daughters seconded his efforts, by rendering every attention in their power to the beautiful stranger; but Richard Morton, still suffering keenly from his father's reproach, did not attempt to conceal his aversion to such mammon worship. He had called, it is true, as an attendant to his mother and sisters, but he could not have told, had he been asked, whether Miss Mowbray was beautiful, or accomplished. He saw her only as the impersonation of a principle, against which his better nature revolted. Especially on this evening, when the waiting multitude seemed eager to do homage, not to her worth certainly, for of that they knew nothing-not to her beauty, for among them were earth's fairest daughters; but to the perishable form, around which the fickle goddess, Fortune, had thrown her mantle-on this evening, especially, did Richard Morton's proud lip curl with scorn, as he vowed within himself that, even for his family's sake, he would have no part in this farce. Haughtily he withdrew to an unnoticed position, as "Miss Mowbray and friend" were announced; but, as if by magnetism, his eyes were drawn towards her for whom all this display had been made. Clad in a magnificent purple robe of rich velvet, with no ornament save one large, lustrous diamond shining on her breast, and the deep, glowing scarlet blossoms twined among her raven braids, Miss Mowbray entered the room with queenly grace. Richard noticed her now, as he had never done before. She was beautiful; even his fastidious taste must concede that. That she was far superior to the throng of gay butterflies around her, he could see at a glance. That lofty brow, which to them was but the type of her noble blood, he saw as the broad signet of a mind refined and cultivated. Yet her beauty did not please him, as did the softer radiance of her friend and companion. In her dark, earnest eyes, he read a woman's heart-warm, loving, trustful. Her simple, snowy drapery, with the moss-buds nestling in her soft brown curls, seemed fit emblems of the purity of her heart. But while Richard gazed upon this fair being, till his whole soul seemed drawn by some invisible power towards her, Mrs. Morton had greeted her guests, and introduced them in the most approved style. Albert Atherton, whose elegant exterior and fascinating manners might well be compared to Eden's tempter, with the easy assurance of one who fears no repulse, drew Miss Mowbray's arm within his own, as he said in a low tone,-"I must claim the privilege of presenting you to my mother, who, most opportunely, arrived in town to-day." He might have added with truth,-"She came to assist me in winning this rich prize." 
               "I should scarcely need an introduction," was Miss Mowbray's smiling reply, as they approached a splendid-looking did-looking lady, to whom, he presented her, "the resemblance is so striking I must at once have recognized your mother, though you had not told me of her presence." 
               "For which compliment," returned he, gallantly bowing, "you have my most sincere thanks." 
               "Nay," said Mrs. Atherton, with motherly pride, "rather is it I who should thank Miss Mowbray for her delicate compliment." 
               "I do not see but we must bear our honors together then," he replied, laughing; "but," he added, in a more serious tone, "to be like my mother, Miss Mowbray, is my highest aim." 
               "I think I can appreciate your feelings, Mr. Atherton," she replied, with an approving glance, "though to me no such guide has been given." 
               "You have no mother, then," remarked Mrs. Atherton, to whom the fact was perfectly well known. 
               "My parents both died when I was young-" and a shade of sadness passed over her face,-"indeed I have no near relatives that I am aware of. But that reminds me of my friend, Miss Singleton," she added, suddenly looking around: "where can she be? I ought not to have left her so abruptly." 
               "Richard Morton has her under his care just now," said Albert, with a scarcely perceptible sneer, which, however, did not escape the observant eyes of his companion. 
               "Is Mr. Morton at all like his father?" she inquired, turning to Mrs. Atherton. 
                
               "Not in the least," quickly replied that lady. 
               "In what do they differ?" 
               "In every thing pertaining to social life. Judge Morton, as you must have seen, is one of the most agreeable, gentlemanly, and kind-hearted men in the world; but Ins son, I am sorry to say, is sadly deficient in all those qualities which would be most pleasing to his friends." 
               Miss Mowbray cast a troubled glance towards her friend, who was in an animated conversation with young Morton. 
               "Is he then so depraved?" said she, "one would not think so from the open, frank expression on his face; he has a very noble bearing." 
               "And that, in the opinion of some ladies, will cover a multitude of sins," said Albert, laughing, though he felt annoyed at her remark. 
               Miss Mowbray's reply was hushed by the soft, sweet strains of a harp, accompanied by a voice full of rich, gushing melody. At the same moment Judge Morton came towards them, and playfully bantering Albert upon his monopoly of their guest, offered to conduct her nearer the fair singer, adding with a meaning smile, "you will find young Atherton is quite a connoisseur in beauty." 
               "The devil take him," muttered Albert in a low tone to his mother,-"he'll blow up the whole thing, yet." 
               "We must follow them," she replied in the same tone, "or the impression you have evidently made will be lost." 
               "How exquisitely beautiful!-nay, how angelic!" exclaimed Miss Mowbray, as the last sounds of the harp died away, and a murmur of applause greeted the sweet singer. 
               "You may well say angelic," replied the Judge, warmly, "for if ever angel dwelt on earth, Agnes Blair is one. I must introduce her to you." 
               The unconscious object of these remarks advanced with blushing timidity towards them, and as her eye fell upon Albert Atherton, who was also approaching them, the warm, bright flush deepened over neck, cheek, and brow. A quick glance at Miss Mowbray assured the young man that she had not noticed the cause of Agnes's confusion. With an indifferent air, therefore, he coldly saluted her, whose young, beautiful life was but a breathing incense for him, and whose heart he had gathered all within his own. 
               "Agnes," said he, in a voice which reached no ear save hers, "pray do not make such a fool of yourself before strangers; restrain your blushes till a more fitting time." 
               Could this be the voice that, but one short week since, whispered such words of passionate love and undying devotion, in tones whose lingering sweetness yet vibrated in her soul! Alas! poor Agnes! this is but the first fragment of the crumbling idol you worship. God help thee, when the whole lies in shattered ruins at thy feet! 
                
               It was but one short moment's work-that speeding of the fatal arrow, and he, the ruthless spoiler, passed on with an unchanged smile to the shrine where he would bow. With an accent of alarm Miss Mowbray sprang past him, and caught the fainting form of the fair girl, whose beauty had so impressed her; at the same moment a strong arm was under hers, and Richard Morton bore the unconscious maiden out into the fresh air. 
               "How very suddenly she fainted," said Miss Mowbray, who had followed them, and now joined in his vigorous efforts to restore animation; "but a moment since her cheeks rivalled the richest rose." 
               "Ay, a rose indeed," replied he bitterly, "with a canker worm in its folds." 
               Miss Mowbray looked up inquiringly; but it was no time for explanations, as a crowd had already gathered around them in anxious solicitude. 
               "She seems reviving," at length said Richard, and with a smile and graceful wave of the hand he added,-"perhaps it would be better for Miss Blair to be left alone while she recovers." 
               All save one withdrew immediately to the drawing-rooms. She would have lingered by the fair sufferer's side, but the decided, though courteous manner in which Richard spoke-"Miss Mowbray, my father waits to conduct you back to our guests,"-seemed to give her no power to remain, and she returned thither also. 
               Richard Morton had acquired a new interest in her eyes, within the last few moments. She had believed what Mrs. Atherton and Albert told her of his strange perversity and coldness, but the deep, earnest, tender thoughtfulness of his manner, as he bent over the fainting girl, and the superiority evidently conceded to him by others, shook her faith in them. 
               "Miss Blair has created quite a sensation," was Albert's cool remark, as she joined her friend near him, "how is she now?" 
               "She was better when I left her, though not fully recovered," Miss Mowbray replied. 
               "She will doubtless revive speedily in Mr. Morton's care." 
               Again Miss Mowbray saw the same sneer she had before noticed, when Albert spoke of Richard Morton. 
               "Ah," said she playfully, "a little jealous, I see." 
               "A thousand times, no," earnestly replied Albert; "Miss Blair is very pretty, certainly, but hers is not the style of beauty I admire." 
               "I cannot agree with you then, for her face struck me at first sight, as the most perfectly beautiful one I had ever seen,-so much purity and sweetness in it;-angelic seemed the only fit term to apply to it." 
               "Rightly applied too," said Richard Morton, who had joined them unobserved,-"Miss Blair deserves all that you can say in her praise." 
               "No doubt you think so," young Atherton replied, with a smile. 
               "I do," said Richard, turning his eye meaningly upon the speaker, "and if rumor be true, I am not the only one." 
               "All this may be very pleasant to you, young men," said Mrs. Atherton, who had been quietly listening, "but, Miss Mowbray, I think you and I can be quite as agreeably entertained elsewhere; will you walk with me, and leave these valiant knights to wage their own battles?" 
               Not a word or look did the haughty woman deign to bestow upon Miss Mowbray's friend,-for was not her situation a menial one? What if her dark eye beamed with rich mental lore? what if nature had traced rare beauty on her brow? she was but the companion, another name for servant, of the heiress. Would she but have looked into that face, so much beneath her notice, as she turned in her blind homage to fortune, she might have read in the flashing eye and curling lip, the proud contempt of a superior nature. Richard Morton saw it, and his heart's response was in the long, earnest gaze he bent upon her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The fox barks not, when he would steal the lamb, 
                        No, no, my sovereign; Gloster is a man 
                        Unsounded yet, and full of deep deceit." 
                     
                   
                
               To Willow Glen we gladly turn our longing steps. Sweet Willow Glen! no lapse of years can bring decay to thee! Ever fresh and green are thy bowers, watered by the dew of peace-nourished and strengthened in the sunlight of love. Within thy walls, earth's purest joys are found,-for there, in shining robes of heaven's own texture, abideth one, whose magic wand holds in abeyance life's troublous waves, and tips with golden colors time's swift-winged messenger. Angel of Charity! well hast thou chosen this thy home! earth has but few dwelling places for such as thee. Here then ever abide, hope's bright beacon to the tempest-tossed on the dark waters of life! 
               In the richly stored library of this charming retreat, sat Melville Thornton. No lines of care-no snowy pencillings, tell of the years that have passed since last we saw him. Content, deep and joyful, has chased from his brow its habitual look of sadness, and the heart's smile of gladness plays ever around his lips. Manhood's noblest type of strength and beauty is he. 
               Near him, leaning forward, as in an earnest, animated tone he spoke, sat an elderly gentleman, whose face Melville Thornton had for the last half hour been scrutinizing, apparently not much to his satisfaction; for he replied, somewhat impatiently, as the other ceased speaking:- 
               "You must excuse me, Judge Morton; but I really cannot see your object in making this communication to me." 
               "In making you a confidant of my thoughts and wishes on this subject," said the Judge, "I hope to secure your aid. Miss Mowbray, I think, could be easily influenced by a person like you." 
               "I have not seen Miss Mowbray yet," Mr. Thornton replied evasively; "but I shall be most happy to entertain the daughter of one I esteemed so highly as Sir Charles. His kindness to me when abroad, is one of the few pleasant memories I cherish." 
               "So much the better for my hopes," added the Judge. "Miss Mowbray reveres her father's memory; and one who has known and esteemed him has a sure passport to her confidence." 
               "You surely would not have me gain her confidence, if I could, for such ends as you propose," quickly rejoined Mr. Thornton, looking keenly at his companion. 
               "No, certainly not," replied the Judge, fearing he had ventured too far; "but a little bias given to her mind might, you know, be sufficient." 
               Melville Thornton paced the room uneasily a few moments; then, pausing before his guest, he said:- 
               "Your years, Judge Morton, entitle you to the respect which I yield; but I tell you now, decidedly, that I will never connive at, or allow in my house, any such manuvring as you have suggested. If your son and Miss Mowbray know and appreciate each other sufficiently to marry, they shall have my best wishes; but by no word or look of mine shall either be influenced." 
               Judge Morton restrained the anger which rose to his lips. He felt the importance of retaining Mr. Thornton's friendship, though he could not make him the tool he wished. 
               "At least," he replied in a courteous tone, "this conversation shall be strictly confidential. I should not have been so frank, had I not known that I was talking with a man of honor. Let it all pass, as a foolish father's over anxiety for the happiness of his only son. Shall I see Mrs. Thornton?" 
               "Certainly, sir; my wife will be most happy to meet you," said Mr. Thornton, leading the way to the parlor, surprised and gratified at the happy termination of their interview. 
               Light hearts, merry faces, and busy tongues, were in the elegant carriage which whirled its way so rapidly from the noise and dust of city life. Gayly, as the prancing horses bounded over hill and dale, opened new scenes of beauty to the delighted travellers. Strangers in a strange land were they; but nature smiled upon them in the familiar robes of an old friend, and the same bright sun kissed their cheeks, as it oft had done in their English home. They could not feel like strangers; for in the heart of one dwelt the remembrance of a jewel found here, whose costly price was the warm life-blood flowing in her own veins. A mother's land! could it be strange to the heart of her child! 
               "I can scarcely realize," said Miss Mowbray, as for a moment they rode in silence, "I can scarcely realize that we are in America;-that the warm breath of this soft spring morning comes not from our own heather hills." 
               "Why, did you expect to find our climate as cold as our natures?" asked Albert Atherton, laughing. 
               "And if I did," was her smiling retort, "the short experience I have had must have determined that question." 
               "But how? you do not tell us how;" he added with more earnestness in his manner than he was aware of. 
               "I find the sun glowing as warmly upon your hills as ours; and hearts-natures-where could nobler or warmer be found?" 
               Unconsciously the eye of the speaker, as she said this, fell, not upon him so intently watching her every word and look, but into the corner where Richard Morton sat. 
               Albert bit his lips with vexation. 
                
               "You may see cause to change your mind yet," said he; "remember, you have only known us a few short weeks." 
               "And what if I should tell you, that in those few short weeks I had changed my mind materially," she replied with a smile. 
               "Then I might dare to hope that still it would change, till it should bring me into your favor," said he in a tone intended for her ear alone. 
               He could not interpret the quick, searching glance Miss Mowbray gave him, or the coolness with which she pointed to her friend some object in the distance. He had not learned her yet; but for all that, his zeal had not abated, nor his purpose changed. He would rather far that the brown curls, and soft, gentle eyes of her beautiful companion belonged to the heiress; for with her he felt at ease; but he involuntarily shrank from the keen glance of Miss Mowbray's black eyes, which seemed to read his very soul. 
               "Here we are at last," exclaimed Richard Morton, as the carriage wound through a shady avenue, and drew up before the door of Melville Thornton's lovely home. 
               "English! English!" cried Miss Singleton, looking around, "how like our own pleasant homes!" 
               "It is indeed charming-delightful!" said Miss Mowbray, as they ascended the steps. 
               We will not listen to the warm, earnest words of welcome with which Charlotte Thornton gladdened the hearts of her stranger guests, for well we know that deceit dwelleth not there. Rather will we glance over the fair page, where, in the solitude of his chamber, Albert Atherton daguerreotyped his thoughts and feelings to her whose type he bore. 
               "Dear Mother" (thus it read), "Here I am at last, mewed up in this puritanical hole, where, but for one thing, I would not have put my head during my natural life. Bah! the very air is filled with the pestilential odors of almshouses and hospitals. My uncle (for I call him so now) might have a very stylish place of it here, were it not for the miserable, canting philosophy he calls be nevolence, which has turned his house into a common resort for beggars and idlers of all sorts. I quite agree with you, that he might have been an ornament to society, but for his foolish marriage with a person of Aunt Lottie's peculiar habits. But enough of him; I am at a loss what report to make of my progress in a certain quarter. Sometimes the prize seems just within my grasp, when, as I attempt to secure it, away it goes, farther than ever. I only wish the little jade that's with her was the heiress; I could get on famously with her. You need have no fear of Dick Morton's rival-ship, for he is over head and ears in love with Miss Singleton, though sometimes I think Miss Mowbray likes him better than she does me. As I said in my last letter, I shall leave no means untried, to gain the object you and I both so much desire. But every thing about this place is so repugnant to my feelings, I fear I shall not get on much without your help. How would it do for you, and perhaps Nettie, to pay a little visit to these dear relations of yours just now? Dick and I are off to Boston soon, and you can use your own good judgment, whether to come before or after we go. Miss Mowbray admires my elegant mother so much, that your presence might materially aid your son's cause. I hope father will not get wind of what we are about, else in his righteous indignation, he might insist upon my marrying Agnes Blair, or cut me off with a shilling. I leave that all for you to manage, and as in duty bound, am ever your affectionate son." 
               Days and weeks flew by, and still the two friends lingered at Willow Glen. Mr. Thornton had persuaded them to remain as his guests, while he put forth every effort to discover the relatives of Miss Mowbray's mother, if any such existed. And there, in the heart of this happy home, their spirits found rest. Orphans they no longer seemed, as the gentle voice and loving Words of Charlotte Thornton drew them within her warm motherly embrace. No need, there, of the disguise they had chosen,-no fear that the distinguished name and rich possessions of one would endear her more, or that the poverty and dependence of the other would lessen her, in the admiration and esteem of those noble hearts. Around that domestic altar, where in pure harmony their souls met, name, station, wealth, were all unknown. But the calm of those happy days, when their heart's desires seemed realized, could not long endure. Deep the waters must be stirred, when a tempting bait lured on the greedy victim. The world,-the selfish world, will not long suffer its rich gems to lie hidden from sight. And so, to the peaceful quiet of Willow Glen, searching for its treasure, came this selfish world, in the form of Mrs. Mark Atherton. She had deemed it wisest to wait till after the departure of her son and Richard Morton. She could then better determine what impressions had been made. 
               Like a sunbeam playing around the dark cloud's path, Nettie, still the golden-haired, gloriously beautiful Nettie, appeared at her mother's side. Years of sorrowful estrangement, in which she had been sternly forbade to speak, or think of the dear one whose arms had cradled her infancy, and whose memory was ever her guiding star, were all forgotten, as again those arms clasped her fondly, and the voice she so loved whispered tenderly in her ear. 
               "My own darling, precious Nettie! thank God we meet again!" 
               "Aunt Lottie! dear-dear Aunt Lottie!" was all the happy girl could say, as she clung around her neck. 
               "Lennette," said her mother reprovingly, "you forget there are strangers here. Miss Mowbray will think I have brought a silly child with me." 
               But Miss Mowbray thought no such thing, as the blushing girl in her own sweet way held out her hand, saying, 
               "The ladies, I am sure, will pardon me for forgetting every thing else, in the joy of meeting my dear aunt, after a long absence." 
                
               "I only wonder," said Miss Mowbray, clasping the proffered hand, "that you can be absent long from such an aunt." 
               "My daughter finds it necessary to devote her whole attention to her education," Mrs. Atherton replied apologetically. 
               "We are rejoiced that she has come with you now," said Mr. Thornton; "we have been planning some jaunts for our young friends here, and Nettie will make a most welcome addition to our party." 
               "That she will," they both replied, and Mrs. Mark Atherton saw with satisfaction the admiring glance bestowed on her beautiful daughter. "From sister to brother," she thought, "will be but a short step." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The joys of meeting pay the pangs of absence; 
                        Else who could bear it?" 
                     
                   
                
               "Now for Woodbine Lodge, ladies," said Mr. Thornton one fine morning, about a week after Mrs. Atherton and Nettie came. 
               "Where is that?" asked Mrs. A. 
               "Oh, it is but a short distance from here," he replied, "but it might as well be in England, as far as the neighbors are concerned." 
               "Why so?" 
               "Because its owner possesses the spirit of exclusiveness," said Mr. Thornton. "Although untenanted, the grounds, which are very large, and elegantly laid out, are enclosed with a high wall, allowing ingress and egress only through the porter's lodge, which is also well guarded." 
               "Quite in the English style, is it not?" Mrs. Atherton asked, turning to Miss Mowbray. 
               "Oh no, we love the free air and open fields too well to wall ourselves in," she replied; "besides, how can the poor, who cannot afford such things, find enjoyment, if we shut out from their sight the beautiful creations of nature and art our means may bring around us." 
               "The poor are made to find enjoyment in their labors," said Mrs. Atherton. 
               "But do you not think they are fitted for higher pleasures?" Miss Mowbray asked with surprise. 
               "Possibly," returned Mrs. Atherton, unwilling to disagree with the heiress. 
               "If I might be permitted to express my opinion," said Miss Singleton, bending full her earnest eye upon Mrs. Atherton, "and being among the poorer class, I think I can judge,-there is even a higher appreciation of natural beauty, and moral worth too, with them, than with those who see every thing through golden eye-glasses." 
               "That is certainly true," spoke Mr. Thornton approvingly, "I have often found in some poor cottager a delicacy of sentiment and taste that would honor a queen. But as it is the hour I promised the agent we would be there, suppose we defer the remainder of this conversation, till our return from Woodbine Lodge." 
               This was gladly agreed to, and the party set forth in high spirits for their ramble. 
               Condescending and agreeable as was for her interest to be, Mrs. Atherton walked beside Mr. and Mrs. Thornton, while with bright faces and laughing voices the happy trio followed them. As in a glass face answereth to face, so did the hearts of these maidens mirror to each other its own purity and truth. Strangers though they were, but one short week since, they seemed to have grown into the confidence and love of years. As, gayly chatting, with arms entwined, as were their hearts, this triad of graces moved on, many an eye turned to gaze again and again upon their rare loveliness. 
               Woodbine Lodge fully justified the involuntary burst of admiration with which the little party entered its grounds. Like a fairy scene, its fountains, grottos, streams, and wooded lawns spread before them, while, through a long vista of noble trees, the imposing front of a splendid mansion met their eyes. Mr. Faulkner, the agent of this untenanted paradise, after a few moments' private conversation with Mr. Thornton, invited the ladies to make themselves at home in this beautiful retreat, and to examine the grounds, with or without his guidance, as they pleased. To the latter the young ladies joyfully assented, and were soon lost in one of its shaded walks. 
               "Now I will talk with you more freely," said Mr. Thornton to the agent, as they disappeared from sight. "I thought it not best to say any thing to Miss Mowbray about it, till she had seen and appreciated the place." 
               "But do you know that she intends purchasing at all here?" asked the agent, in rather a disappointed tone. 
               "No, I do not know that such are her intentions," replied Mr. Thornton, "but I think it would require but little persuasion to induce her to do so, especially as there are no ties to bind her elsewhere." 
               "Would she sell her English estate?" 
               "Probably not; her father's home is sacred in her eyes, and she is sufficiently able to hold both." 
               Mrs. Atherton's eye glistened as she heard this. "That would be delightful," said she; "then we may hope to keep Miss Mowbray near us most of the time." 
               "Not so fast," said Mr. Thornton, laughing, "Miss Mowbray is yet to be consulted; this is our plan, not hers." 
               "You will please to excuse me for a few moments," said Mr. Faulkner, as he ushered them into the house. "I have promised to meet a few other visitors here today, and it is about time for them to arrive." 
               Through winding paths and shady groves, the three friends delightedly roved, each new beauty, as it unfolded, eliciting their warmest admiration. At last, to complete the enchantment, they came to a spot where all cultivation ceased, and nature in its wild beauty lay before them. 
               "Can any thing be more gloriously beautiful!" exclaimed Miss Mowbray's companion,-her dark eye glowing with enthusiasm,-"I could be content ever to dwell here." 
               "It is more beautiful than any thing I have ever seen, except your own home," replied the other in a low tone. 
               The first speaker cast a quick look towards Nettie, who reclined in a graceful attitude at the foot of a tree near them, her whole soul filled with the beauty around her. 
               "You must be more cautious, Maggie," said she softly, "two or three times you have come very near disclosing all." 
               "And why not disclose all, Lucille? I hate the false character I bear: and you, with your noble birth and station, to appear as a dependent at my side! I cannot,-indeed, I cannot endure it much longer." 
               "If you knew, dear Maggie, how much happiness it had already caused me, your unselfish heart would, I am sure, yield to the sacrifice a little longer,"-and the fair girl hid her blushing face as she thought of the unspoken love she had read in Richard Morton's eye. 
               "I will do all that you wish, dear Lucille," replied the other, soothingly; "but I fear we shall get entangled in a web not of our own making." 
               "You mean the one Mrs. Atherton is weaving for you," said Lucille, with a bright smile,-"how does her son progress in winning the heiress?" 
               "Hush!" said Maggie, pointing to 88Nettie, "we must speak very low, or she may hear us. How strange that she should have such a mother and brother." 
               "She is an angel;" earnestly exclaimed Lucille,-"one could almost love her brother for her sake." 
               "Suppose you try it then," said Maggie, laughing; "for you are really the one he seeks, though he knows it not." 
               "He reminds me too strongly of young Hastings," replied Lucille. "Ah! Maggie, this ruse of ours was a happy thought, if it do not cause you too much pain." 
               "My pain is principally on your account, dear Lucille," said Maggie, "so if you are happier, it shall continue as long as you wish." 
               "Thank you, Maggie darling; you can scarcely realize how important it is to my happiness, to remain incog. for the present at least." Again did the fail blushing face betray its secret. 
               "Ah, Lucille! perhaps I know more than"- 
               An exclamation from Nettie cut off the remaining sentence, and caused both to turn towards her with surprise. Unperceived by them, a gentleman had approached the spot where she reclined in unconscious loveliness. They did not see the deep, earnest gaze which he bent upon her, or his quick, bright glance of recognition, as he sprang to her side. They only heard her joyful cry, as her hand was clasped in his, while her face shone with radiant light. 
               "Nettie!" 
               "Lonny!"-treasury of words to the hearts that had hoarded them. 
               "But too truly has my bright dream been realized," exclaimed he, gazing with rapture into her beautiful face. 
               "How strange that we should so quickly have recognized each other," said Nettie, "and you so changed too." Her lips did not add, what her eyes so plainly said, that the change was far from being unfavorable to him. 
                
               "You did not expect to find me the same rude, uncouth object that you parted from ten years ago, I hope," he replied, smiling. 
               "Whatever I expected," said she with a merry laugh, "you have appeared before me a very handsome young gentleman, and these young ladies are wondering much who you are; so, Miss Mowbray and Miss Singleton, allow me to introduce to you-what shall I say?-my cousin, Mr. Brown." 
               "Such a relationship does me too much honor," said he, bowing to the ladies. "As children we were not allowed to assume it. Where is your mother, Nettie?" 
               "She is somewhere here, in company with Aunt Lottie and her husband," Nettie replied with a disturbed look; "but how did you know we were here?" 
               "So far from knowing it, I was never more surprised in my life than when I recognized you under the tree. I came with some friends to see the place. But I must go and seek Aunt Lottie." 
               "Shall we accompany him?" said Nettie, turning to Miss Mowbray. 
               "As you please," she replied; "it is time, I think, that we returned to them." 
               Years, or rather kindness and care, had worked wonders in the poor orphan boy Mrs. Atherton had so rudely termed a "pauper foundling." True to his noble purpose, Joseph Atherton counted no sacrifice too great for the beloved child he had taken to his heart. His were no idle words, when he said he would "make a man of him," though in that term were included nobility of soul and the highest cultivation of the intellect. He had made a man of him,-noble, gifted, worthy the love which had thus endowed him. In his untiring devotion to study, it had been more from accident than design that Lonny had not met the friends of his orphanage. Towards his first benefactress, Charlotte Thornton, his heart ever glowed with the warmest gratitude, while like a guardian angel, hovering around him and beckoning him on to the highest paths of honor and virtue, the sweet face and sunny curls his boyhood worshipped seemed ever near him. Nettie had been in all his thoughts and dreams;-Nettie, the first sympathizer in his sorrows, and Nettie, the bright goal for which he labored and prayed. Here then, at last, she stood by his side, the living embodiment of all his most beautiful visions; and from her earnest eye softly stole to his heart the sweet assurance that he was not forgotten. 
               Long before they reached the house, Lonny, or Mr. Brown, as we must now call him, for he had not adopted the name of his kind guardian, had quite won the hearts of the young strangers. Miss Mowbray thought him the most agreeable and gentlemanly person she had met, and her companion could except but one. In the best possible humor with each other, therefore, the happy party sought their friends; but not before the watchful eye of Mrs. Mark Atherton had seen their approach, and observed the earnestness with which the stranger, who accompanied them, addressed her daughter. 
               "Who can that be, Charlotte?" said she, pointing to the gentleman. 
               "I do not know," Mrs. Thornton replied; "do you, Melville?" 
               "I know of but one face that has so interested me before," said Mr. Thornton, gazing intently at the young man as he drew near; "it must surely be the same,-your brother Joseph's protg." 
               Charlotte Thornton did not see the frown gathering on Mrs. Atherton's brow; but, springing forward, she caught the hand extended to her, exclaiming, 
               "Can it be possible this is my little Lonny!" 
               "The boy you saved," replied he with a look of respectful affection. 
               "And one too of whom we are justly proud," added Mr. Thornton, warmly grasping the other hand,-"what a happy surprise you have given us! Mrs. Atherton, do you not remember your brother's adopted son?" 
               "I believe I have seen the person before," Mrs. Atherton replied, drawing herself up into her most freezing attitude. 
               Like a thunderbolt the words of Nettie's mother fell upon the young man's heart.-"Pauper foundling!" thought he; "she will never forget that." 
               Meanwhile Miss Mowbray and her friend stood apart, in low, earnest conversation. They did not heed the cold words and colder looks, with which Mrs. Atherton haughtily turned from the gentleman who had so interested them. Nettie's tremulous voice and tearful eye, as she softly stole an arm around each, first recalled them from their abstraction. 
               "I'm so unhappy," murmured she. 
               "What is it, dear?-what is it?" they anxiously inquired. 
               "Nettie silently pointed to her mother, on whose face still rested the dark lines of anger and contempt, then at the receding form of Mr. Brown, whom no remonstrances of his friends could detain.-"He's gone," said she, "and my mother has cruelly treated him." 
               That night, at Willow Glen, in the sweet confidence of youth, a pure, simple heart unveiled itself to the eye of affection. 
               "Tell me," said Nettie, "now that you know all-tell me, am I wrong?" 
               "Wrong! "exclaimed Miss Mowbray, while a tear glistened in her companion's eye, "you have ennobled yourself in my estimation. Only be true to yourself, Nettie,-be true to your woman's nature, and even the wrath of your mother shall yet praise the noble, generous, and unselfish love you have so worthily bestowed." 
               A smile of joy illumined the fair, lovely face raised to the speaker's, and in that moment of silence their souls were knit together as the soul of one. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "There's no impossibility to him 
                           Who stands prepared to conquer every hazard; 
                           The fearful are the failing." 
                        
                      
                     MRS. HALE. 
                   
                
               THE next morning, as Mr. Thornton sat quietly engaged in his library, Mrs. Mark Atherton suddenly stood before him. Her usually calm, self-possessed manner, had given place to an air of disturbance and vexation. 
               "Perhaps I ought not to intrude upon you here," said she, "but if I am not interrupting important business, I should like a few moments' conversation with you." 
               "My business is of such a nature," he replied, rising and handing her a chair, "that it can be attended to any other time as well as now. Pray be seated, Mrs. Atherton; I shall be happy to converse with you upon any subject you wish." 
               "I may as well come to the matter at once, without preface," said she, taking the proffered seat,-"I wish to know, Mr. Thornton, if the person we met in our walk yesterday, and whom you greeted with apparent sincerity and warmth, is, or is to be, a frequent visitor at your house?" 
               "I suppose you refer to Mr. Brown, your brother's adopted son," replied Mr. Thornton. "I am sorry to say, Mrs. Atherton, that we have not seen him before for many years, and that he has never yet visited Willow Glen." 
               "Humph! he will not be long in doing so then," said Mrs. A.; "these low-born fellows are always ready to push themselves as high as possible. Did you observe the insulting familiarity which he used towards my daughter?" 
               "On the contrary, madam, I did not even see him speak to your daughter." 
               "I did," said she, getting excited, "I saw it all-the mean, base pauper-daring to offer his arm to my child; I could have killed him on the spot for his audacity." 
               "You must excuse me, Mrs. Atherton," Mr. Thornton coolly replied; "but I really see no insult or audacity in the gentleman offering his arm to your daughter." 
               "Gentleman! repeated she with scorn, "do you call a person whose birth is a shame to him, even in his own low set, a gentleman?
                
               "If in heart he is pure, in character irreproachable, in mind and person cultivated and refined, I do. Such is Mr. Brown; and no circumstances of birth, or station can make him other than he is-a gentleman." 
               Mr. Thornton spoke warmly, and Mrs. Atherton, for reasons of her own, did not think it best to offend him; so she merely replied- 
               "We can never agree upon that point, Mr. Thornton, and I do not care to discuss it now. There is one thing, however, in which I think you will agree with me, and that is, in the right and authority of parents to control their children's interests." 
               "I am not sure that even there we should not be at variance," Mr. Thornton smilingly replied, "for I consider parental authority a very limited power, reaching neither to the heart nor conscience of the child." 
               "But you surely will allow that mothers should control improprieties of conduct in their children." 
               "Certainly; mothers and fathers too should do that." 
               "Very well, sir; we will rest on this common ground then, while I say what I wish to you respecting my daughter." 
               "Proceed, madam; any thing concerning Nettie must interest me; she is a girl of rare beauty and excellence." 
               "Knowing that as well as I do, Mr. Thornton, you cannot be surprised that I feel the necessity of a vigilant care and watch over her. I know, what perhaps you do not, that she is a very peculiar girl; her tastes, feelings, and habits, are unlike most girls of her age. Your wife has very kindly invited her to remain here for a few weeks with the young lady who is your guest, and I should hope much from the companionship of one who knows the value of high birth and social honors." 
                
               "I think you could find no better companions for Nettie," interrupted Mr. Thornton, "than Miss Mow-bray and her friend, and I do most heartily second my wife's invitation that she should remain here, always, if she will. 
               "Her remaining will depend upon the confidence I can place in you, Mr. Thornton," was Mrs. Atherton's ungracious answer. "Nettie must not again see the person we met yesterday. It is strange and mortifying, but she has always had a predilection for him, low-born as he is." 
               "That shows that our tastes are alike," said Mr. Thornton, smiling. "I have never seen him but twice, and yet he interests me more than any one I ever met. But, Mrs. Atherton," he added in a serious tone, "are you so well satisfied of the young man's unworthiness that you would have me discard him from my house, lest your daughter should love him?" 
               "I cannot presume to dictate to you, sir," she replied with something of her old haughtiness; "but I would sooner have my daughter buried, I had almost said alive, than to see her degraded so low as to love him." 
               "Will you allow me," said Mr. Thornton, "to ask your reasons for disliking Mr. Brown?" 
               "It is not mere dislike," she replied hurriedly, "it is hatred. Loathsome object as he was when I first saw him, a beggar at my door, he is even more repulsive to me now, seeking, as he does, to hide the beggar under a gentleman's garb. He may deceive others, but to me his face will ever bear the stamp of its low origin." 
               "Do you know any thing of his parentage, Mrs. Atherton?" Mr. Thornton asked, with some severity in his tone, "or do you condemn him because of his early poverty?" 
               "I condemn and despise him for the false character he would wear. As to his parentage, we all know it was from the lowest dregs of humanity." 
               "And yet my wife has told me that she once saw a miniature of his mother, which represented her as intelligent and refined, as well as very beautiful." 
               "Some picture that was stolen, probably, to make out a good beggar's story," Mrs. Atherton replied contemptuously. 
               Mr. Thornton was provoked at her heartlessness. "We have indulged in this conversation," said he, "quite long enough. The protection of such a man as Joseph Atherton should be sufficient to guard Mr. Brown from insult, or reproach. Add to this his own high moral and intellectual worth, and I, for one, must ever welcome him to my house and heart." 
               "If such be your decision, sir," said Mrs. Atherton, going towards the door, "the question of Nettie's remaining is settled. She goes with me." 
               "I beg you will retract that, Mrs. Atherton," said Mr. Thornton, detaining her. "Nettie is very dear to us all, and I will pledge my word of honor, that I will watch over her as tenderly and carefully as though she were my own child." 
                
               Without a word of reply, Mrs. Atherton coolly withdrew. 
               Meanwhile he, whose bright cup of joy had been so rudely shattered to the earth, wrestled alone with the mighty agony of his soul. All night long he had paced the floor of his solitary chamber. Again and again did his heart send forth its despairing cry into the silence and darkness surrounding him. 
               "Why! oh why must this curse be upon me! Why, with mind and talent, aye, and heart too, was I endowed, if the dark spot upon my birth must ever brand me, like the mark of Cain on my forehead! I have borne taunts and insults from my associates; I have felt (oh, how deeply!) the stern decree that shuts me from many so called honorable friends; and with high and noble resolves have I risen superior to these. But when she,-the mother of one who has been the only star in my horizon, looked upon me with that cold, cruel eye of scorn, heart and soul seemed congealed within me. It shall be so no longer. Death a thousand times will I endure, rather than again meet that terrible look; and death-O how much more welcome than life, shut out from the light of hope! My mother! in this sweet image of thee, which so long has lain next my heart, I see no conscious guilt, no look of innocence betrayed;-naught but a pure, unsullied fame can rest upon a brow like thine. Even now, those gentle eyes speak peace to my soul, as in their tender gaze I read a mother's heart-warm, loving and true. Oh, my mother! where shall thy child seek thee! where find rest! I gaze upon thee, and thou seem'st to say to my soul, "Go forth, my son, and vindicate thy fair name and mine;-go, and cease not, till to the world thou canst proclaim thine honorable birth and name." Mother! I hear thy spirit's call,-I go. Here on my knees, before this beautiful emblem, of what thou wert, I vow to Heaven and thee, that this day will I become a pilgrim to the shrine of my mother's grave,-that never, but with life, shall my ceaseless search be stayed, till with proud joy, I claim my happy birthright-an unstained name!" 
               With the morning's gray light, the young man sought the home which had sheltered his orphan years. In his eye burned the calm and holy light of a noble purpose. He had come forth as from a fiery furnace, purified and strengthened for life's great burden, which now he was to bear. Even the bright dream of hope which had gilded his days, did he banish from his heart, till his vow should be accomplished. He stood in the presence of the beloved protectors of his youth,-they who, in all things save one, had met his every want; whose very kindness had fitted him to feel more keenly this plague spot on his soul. Now, for the first time, did he pour forth the long-concealed burden of his heart-how insults, reproaches and taunts had fallen upon him, till now he was overwhelmed, and could no longer bear them;-how, in the silence and darkness of that night, he had vowed to go forth from home and friends, not again to return, till with triumph he could point to a father's unsullied honor. All this, and more, did the almost prophetic voice of the young man pour into the ear of his astonished listener. 
               "I never knew before," said Joseph Atherton, wiping his eye, "that you felt so deeply your unknown parentage, or that there were hearts depraved enough to taunt you with it. I wouldn't be afraid to stake my right arm that your parents were good and honorable, though perhaps poor." 
               "On your account, my more than father," replied the young man, "I have suffered in silence the stigma on my name. Do you remember, years ago, the term 'pauper foundling,' applied to me by--?" 
               "By that infernal old woman, Mark's wife," interrupted Joseph Atherton indignantly,-"Yes, I do; but Lonny, boy, you don't care for her, do you?" 
               "Yes, I care for her, because she expresses the sentiments of a certain portion of society; and more than all, I care for her, because she is Nettie's mother." 
               The flush on Lonny's face grew deeper, and his voice more tremulous as he said this. 
               "Well, I don't blame you a mite for loving Nettie," said Uncle Joseph; "but as for her mother, she's a great ugly--." 
               "Don't I beseech you, Uncle Joseph," pleaded the young man, "as Nettie's mother, her name is sacred to me." 
               "You are the strangest fellow I ever saw, Lonny; but you are the best too; so I won't offend you if I can help it; but you'll get over this bad feeling pretty soon, won't you?" 
                
               "Never, Uncle Joseph, till I can hear my name without a blush," replied Lonny, decidedly. "This very day, with your blessing, I go to rescue my mother's, fame from worse than oblivion." 
               "Why! what do you mean to do, Lonny?" asked Uncle Joseph with surprise. 
               "First, find, if possible, some trace of my grandfather's family." 
               "How will you do that?" 
               "I scarcely know myself. I was old enough when he died to have some indistinct recollection of the places where we wandered. If I could get started right, I think I could retrace many of them." 
               Joseph Atherton gazed with intense affection into the face before him. 
               "Lonny," said he with a choking voice, "is it necessary for your happiness to do this?" 
               "Believe me, beloved father, that you have been to me, if I keep not this promise to her whose lonely grave I seek, my life will be but a broken, shattered ruin," replied the young man with deep emotion. 
               "Then may Heaven bless you, as I do," exclaimed Joseph Atherton, laying his hands upon the head of the young man, who knelt before him: "Henny, wife, come here and join your blessing to mine." 
               Trembling, the good woman obeyed. "As you have blessed our hearts, my son," she murmured, "so may you be blessed in this, your true and noble mission. God will prosper thee; for 'when were the righteous ever forsaken?'" 
                
               Simple, sublime faith! deep down into the troubled heart before her it sank, while o'er them all an angel face bent its enraptured gaze, and in breathless whispers, crowned the blessing with a mother's love. 
               To the deserted hut, from which, years before, he had seen the lifeless form of his grandfather carried to its last rest, Lonny bent his solitary steps. No longer the dirty, ragged boy that last had trod those fields;-no longer the frightful object that, behind the very stone where he now stopped to rest, had called forth such gibes and jeers from rude boys;-no longer the needy recipient of that sympathy, which even now floated around the spot in the soft, silvery tones of a musical voice; no: with the bloom of health upon his cheek, the glance of the mind's intelligence in his eye, the strength and beauty of manhood in his form, Lonny sat, where once he had crouched in fear and shame. He heeded not the passing moments, as swiftly into hours they formed before him; back, far back his vision swept,-to the poor, helpless being whose flickering life went out in yonder hovel,-to the desolate, cheerless dearth of his own boyhood,-to the insults and abuses he then suffered;-but here the dark waves of memory were stayed by a form of angelic beauty, and a voice whose thrilling sweetness yet lingered in his soul. Again he saw the golden curls, which, like a crown of glory, encircled that fair head;-again he felt the soft pressure of a tiny hand, as, with words of tender sympathy, she first woke his dormant spirit. 
               It was not all a dream-this vision of the past, for as the young man raised his head, she, the idealization of his thoughts,-the inspiration of his hopes, stood before him. 
               All the idolatry of his heart seemed concentrated in the yearning tenderness with which he breathed her name, as, forgetful of every thing save her presence, he caught her wildly to his heart. Quickly the blushing girl withdrew from his embrace; but her chidings were gentle, for she saw the deep shadow of his spirit's strife. 
               "Come, sit by me, Nettie," said he, "here where first you became the light of my life. Nay, you need fear no more rudeness," he added, as a timid blush rose to her cheek; "I am master of myself now. Heaven has sent you here, Nettie, in this my hour of darkness; I cannot doubt that." 
               "I often walk this way," she replied; "but what brought you here-and in this dark mood too?" 
               "Nettie, I must not burden your young heart with my grief. I came here to look once more upon the scenes of my unhappy boyhood,-upon this spot, where first your angel face daguerreotyped itself upon the darkness of my soul. I dared not seek you, Nettie; I know but too well the gulf that lies between us. But now that I leave you, perhaps for ever,-perhaps to return long hence and find you happy in another's love, I bless God that this moment of joy is given me." 
               "Lonny, of what do you speak?" asked Nettie with a trembling voice; "where are you going?" 
               "To seek that, without which, neither talents, learning, nor worth, can avail aught in this world," he replied bitterly. 
               "Explain yourself, Lonny; I do not understand you." 
               He looked into the clear blue eyes raised to his, and an expression of anguish passed over his face. 
               "Nettie," said he, "has not your mother taught you to regard me as a poor outcast, unworthy even a common friendship?" 
               "My mother has her prejudices," replied the fair girl; "but there are others, Lonny, who see nothing in you but what you are-a noble, true-hearted man." 
               "Bless you for those words, Nettie; they strengthen me-but, sweet comforter that you are, you little know the curse with which the world brands me." 
               "Why care for the world, Lonny, when friends love and appreciate you?" 
               "Why-indeed!" he repeated with a quivering lip. "Can I sit calmly, think you, and hear a mother's name coupled with the most insulting epithets? Can I meet the look of scorn, which seems almost to deny my humanity? Above all, can I live on, unblessed by a love which I dare not ask? No, Nettie; either I trace a mother's unblemished name, or you never see me again." 
               With a holy, beautiful smile, the maiden laid her small white hand within his,- 
               "Then, Lonny, hear me," she murmured, "you may not go hence, till with this hand I pledge you the heart that has long been yours." 
                
               "Miserable pauper! vile excrescence! beggar's foundling! how dare you insult my daughter with your contaminating touch!" Mrs. Mark Atherton shrieked, as she caught the arm of the terrified girl,-"poor, degraded thing!" said she, pushing her away, "go to your father's house, and hide your infamy in your own room,-and you, lowest of the vile, how shall I find language to express my loathing of you,-prowling around here to entice a weak girl to your polluted arms: precious son of your mother are you! begone, dog! lest in my vengeance I tear your very eyes from their sockets." 
               Lonny stood with folded arms during this storm of passion, which burst so suddenly upon his blissful dream. He caught Nettie's glance of unutterable love, as she fled in terror from the fury of her mother, and his heart felt strong within him. 
               "Madam," said he calmly, "you are the mother of that pure being-else I would answer you as you deserve; but for her sake I forbear. Yet let me tell you, that the day may come-yes, will come, when the words you have now uttered, will cause you far more pain than they now cause me." 
               Before she could reply, he had gone from her sight. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Oh! colder than the wind that freezes 
                        Founts, that but now in sunshine played, 
                        Is that congealing pang that seizes 
                        The trusting bosom when betrayed." 
                     
                   
                
               "HAS he come, mother?" 
               "No, darling, he has not been here yet." 
               The sick girl turned wearily on her couch,-"Oh, if he only knew!" she murmured, "how I long to tell him the forgiveness there is in my heart! Why! Oh, why will he not come!" 
               "Never mind, Agnes, dear," said her mother, gently bathing the fevered brow, and smoothing back the beautiful hair from her temples; "he has doubtless been called away on business, or he would have answered your summons before now; I dare say he will be here soon." 
               "Yes, that must be it, mother; how kind you are to think so, and how strange that I should have thought he did not want to come," and the fair patient, with a sigh of relief, yielded to the soporific influence, and soon fell into a deep, sweet sleep. 
                
               Long did that widowed mother gaze into the face of the beautiful sleeper, now her only earthly treasure. The marble brow, the pallid lip, the thin white hand, told but too plainly their tale of sorrow. Her child was dying of a broken heart; and she, who would gladly give her own life for the beloved one, must look on in helpless agony, while her bright star fades-fades away from her sight. Ah! well for thee, afflicted one, that thou leanest not on an arm of flesh,-that, even in this hour, the prayer of faith, "though he slay me, yet will I trust in Him," is on thy lips; else what could break the midnight darkness of thy soul, when this, thy light, is gone from thee. 
               With a look of calm determination, Mrs. Blair left, with noiseless steps, the chamber of sickness, and bidding an attendant watch at the door till her return, she set forth, oh what she feared might be her fruitless errand. She had deplored, when too late, the infatuation of her daughter for one whom neither her taste nor judgment approved. But as at Judge Morton's, where only the higher class were admitted, Agnes first met Albert Atherton, she hoped he might prove more worthy than to her he seemed. Now, however, the sad, convincing evidence of his baseness was in the wasted form and sunken eye of her child-her beautiful one, whom he had cruelly deserted. For days and weeks they had sent in vain for some explanation of his strange conduct, till, crushing every feeling of pride in the mother's heart, Mrs. Blair resolved to solve the dreadful mystery under which Agnes was fast sinking. This, then, was her mission, as she so quickly threaded the streets which led to Judge Morton's mansion. 
               "Not at home," was the reply to her inquiry for Mr. Atherton, and slipping a note in the servant's hand, she turned with a heavy heart to retrace her steps, just as a travelling carriage drew up before the door. She could not pass it without observing those within, when something in the face of one of them arrested her attention. 
               "The likeness is very remarkable," said she to herself, "it looks as she did the last time I saw her." 
               Richard Morton's cheerful voice recalled her, as he exclaimed, "Mrs. Blair, I am happy to see you; how is your daughter?" 
               "She is very ill, sir, very ill indeed," was her reply. 
               "Ill!" he repeated; "Agnes ill! I did not know it; how long has she been so?" 
               "Several weeks," said Mrs. Blair; then drawing nearer, she added in a low voice,-"She is dying, Mr. Morton, dying for one all unworthy her thoughts." 
               "You shock me beyond measure, Mrs. Blair," he replied, "can it be possible that Albert has"- 
               "Your company are waiting for you," interrupted Mrs. Blair, "come over and see her; it would comfort her much." 
               "I will come this very night," said he, as he turned away. 
               True to his appointment, Richard Morton sat that night within the darkened chamber, and saw the blight which had fallen upon a happy life. Oh, how did he curse that spirit of worldliness, which, in its eager strife for empty honors, could ruthlessly hurl such gems from its path. 
               "If Albert would only come to me," the sweet sufferer said to him, "I would tell him how his poor Agnes prays daily and nightly for his happiness,-how from her heart she forgives and blesses him." 
               "He is unworthy of your love, Agnes," he began; but she waved her hand,-that transparent hand, to hush him,- 
               "Say not so, Richard," she cried, "it is I who am unworthy; how could he, so noble and gifted, love a poor girl like me?" 
               Richard would not add to the pangs of that wounded spirit, by speaking of the sordid selfishness-the unscrupulous villany, of one she worshipped as "noble and gifted." He resolved, however, as he bent his steps homeward that evening, that the heiress, at whose shrine Albert Atherton would lay such a costly sacrifice, should, in that pale, spiritual face, learn his deep duplicity. The next day, therefore, Richard again stood by Agnes's bedside; but he came not alone. She, the innocent cause of the misery before her, looked with pity and astonishment at the fearful wreck of the beautiful temple she had once so much admired. Gently she clasped the wasted hand within her own, and with purest sympathy met the earnest,-almost agonizing gaze of the lovely girl. 
               "What has wrought this change?" said she; "the last time I saw you, Miss Blair, you looked the very picture of health." 
                
               Agnes well remembered the time,-"So I was, till then," she replied feebly, while her lip quivered with emotion. 
               Miss Mowbray's interest was instantly aroused; she had always connected that fainting fit with the words she saw Albert Atherton then whisper in the fair girl's ear; but he had so strenuously denied it since, that she dismissed it from her thoughts; now, however, to return, with fourfold conviction. 
               "And what was there then," she asked, "to cause you such sickness and suffering?" 
               "Oh, not to you!-not to you!" cried Agnes, covering her eyes, as if to shut out some terrible vision. "You must never know." 
               "I would not force your confidence, my dear girl," said Miss Mowbray in gentle tones; "I am a stronger, I know; yet my heart yearns to comfort you if I can." 
               "It is not that," murmured the sufferer, "you are no stranger to me, though we have met but once; but he loves you-and-and-he is worthy of you." 
               With a suppressed groan, Agnes sank back on her pillow, and a deathly pallor spread over her face. 
               "Quick-quick!"-exclaimed Miss Mowbray, "she has fainted! What does this all mean?" 
               "The sight of you has overcome her," said Mrs. Blair, as she chafed the cold hands and temples of the unconscious girl; "you were kind to come," she added, "but perhaps, in her weak state, it would be better that she should not see you when she revives." 
               "I do not understand it at all," said Miss Mowbray, rising to leave, "but with your permission I will call again to-morrow. Agnes evidently labors under some strange misapprehension with regard to me, which must be removed at once." 
               Mrs. Blair threw a quick, searching glance at the young lady, but at that moment a deep sigh, as from the spirit's sad return, escaped from Agnes's lips, and Miss Mowbray silently withdrew. 
               "Where are they?" whispered Agnes, with the first returning consciousness. 
               "Who? darling." 
               "Why, Albert and-and-I can't remember her name." 
               "You are dreaming, love; there is no one here but me." 
               "Am I dreaming, mother? I thought Albert stood here by my bed, and she with those great black eyes, and I thought I was going to marry them. Is it all a dream, mother?" murmured the poor girl, fixing her eye with pleading earnestness upon the face bent over her. 
               "You are so weak, darling, you have strange fancies. No one has been here but Richard Morton and Miss Mowbray; and Richard says that Albert has returned, and will surely come to see you to-morrow." 
               "Did he say that, mother?" cried Agnes, springing up with unnatural strength,-"did he say he would surely come? Then you were right, dear mother, and I-Oh! how I have wronged my noble Albert!" 
               "Be calm, my child," exclaimed Mrs. Blair, frightened ened at the effect of her imprudent remark; "something may yet detain him; or perhaps you are not mistaken in thinking that he does not wish to come. You must try to prepare your mind for whatever awaits you, my daughter." 
               "Yes, mother, I will; but tell me once more, that he will come,-that I shall see him again;" and again that imploring look overcame the mother's judgment and heart. 
               "You shall see him to-morrow, darling," she said caressingly; "but my precious one must love her mother a little, and not grieve so about a faithless lover." 
               "My mother knows that I love her better than any thing on earth, except"-Agnes hesitated,- 
               "Except this young man, who robs me of my Agnes' heart, and then casts it aside, as of little worth," Mrs. Blair added reproachfully. 
               Hope lent new strength to the frail form, new brilliancy to the faded eye of the lovely invalid. Like some pure, embodied spirit, Agnes looked, enshrouded in her simple white wrapper, her soft hair parted smoothly over her brow, and her fair face rivalling the snowy whiteness of the pillows that supported her. 
               Through the long watches of the night she had lain, outwardly calm and still as in repose; but the soul's wild tumult, as by turns the phantoms of hope and fear seized their victim, none save the ever faithful Eye might know. But the morning's bright beams brought only the sweet vision of hope, infusing its life into her languid frame. Beautiful as the lily, fit emblem of her purity and fragility, Agnes lay, counting each slow hour, as on it moved, unmindful of the trembling joy, or bitter disappointment which marked its course. Still she watched on, for when was woman's faith e'er known to fail? She was sure Richard Morton must be mistaken in saying Albert had returned; perhaps his mother, whom he loved so well, was sick,-perhaps, oh, why had she not thought of that before! perhaps he was ill-as ill as herself may be, and no friend near to love and care for him. In an instant the terrible thought took possession of her diseased imagination;-he was dying-she knew it,-and to him she would fly, were it only to breathe her life out with his. With supernatural strength and agility she sprang from her couch, robed herself as for a walk, and closely veiled, passed with silent steps down the stairs, out at the door, and through streets, she heeded not where. On she flew, in her vague, mad pursuit; reason could not guide her, for it had left its helm. Nature, thus o'er-burdened, could not long sustain the fearful odds. Suddenly she stood, transfixed,-her heart wildly leaping its imprisoned walls. Near her, almost near enough to touch her garments, he passed! he, whom in her madness she sought, and by his side those same black eyes that had haunted her dreams. With every sense painfully tensed, she turned and followed quick upon their steps. 
               "Let us go in and take an ice," said Albert to his companion, as they paused before the window of a large saloon. 
               "Wait till Mr. Morton and my friend overtake us," she replied; "we have quite outwalked them." 
               They did not notice the muffled figure that crept so near them, or the hollow, glassy eyes, that glared so through the thick veil upon them. 
               "Now, Mr. Atherton," said Miss Mowbray, as they seated themselves at a table, with the cooling ice before them, "you have heard my opinion in this matter. Perhaps I have spoken too freely, but if I am not deceived,"- 
               "You are deceived, Miss Mowbray," eagerly interrupted the young man; "it is all a trumped up tale. Agnes Blair never had any reason to think I loved her. And if she was so consummately foolish as to fall in love with me, must I be blamed for it?" 
               A deep, unearthly groan caused both to start, while from his feet Albert Atherton caught the insensible form of a female, as she sank there. 
               "Good heavens! it is Agnes Blair!" exclaimed Miss Mowbray, throwing aside the thick veil. 
               "A carriage: quick-quick!" shouted Richard Morton to one of the servants; and almost as soon as spoken, a carriage awaited them; into which Albert, still bearing his inanimate burden, stepped, followed by the young ladies with such restoratives as they could command. 
               "Now drive for your life," said Richard to the man, after he had given his directions, "and I will be there with a physician as quick as you." 
                
               Not a word was spoken, as over the still form which he clasped in his arms, Albert Atherton bent a face as pale as her own. He knew his heartless words had killed her, and as for a moment his selfish nature was stunned, he felt all his love for that pure being revive with tenfold power. For he had loved her, more than his sordid heart seemed capable of loving any thing but himself. Gently,-almost tenderly, he carried her to the couch from which, one half hour before, she had fled in the frenzy of despair, to die with him. Her mother's promise, "you shall see him to-morrow, darling," had been, oh, how fearfully verified! She had seen him in all the black deformity of his guilty heart, and her life was the forfeit! 
               But where, in this terrible moment, was she, whose vigilant care ever surrounded this-the idol of her love? Deceived by her daughter's apparent calmness and quietude, and attributing it to a firm reliance on her promise that she should see Albert that day, Mrs. Blair resolved that she would go herself, and plead with the young man to see Agnes once more, and end her suspense, though it should be by confirming her worst fears. This, she judged, would be the wisest course for her child, whose wounded pride, as she learned her lover's unfaithfulness from his own lips, might serve to lessen the bitter pangs of disappointed affection. She had left Agnes reposing quietly, as she thought, upon her couch, and with a faithful promise from the servant, that she would on no account leave her, Mrs. Blair set forth to accomplish her painful task. She could not find him she sought, and determined to make yet another effort, when she had looked in again upon Agnes, she reached her own door, to find it surrounded by terror-stricken faces, who involuntarily shrank back as she approached. With a fearful cry, she rushed to her daughter's room. Oh! who shall picture the scene of woe that met that mother's frantic gaze! Agnes, with the pale hue of death upon her cheek, lay still and motionless, her eyes closed as in sleep, but with an expression of anguish which seemed frozen upon her beautiful features. Supporting the pillows upon which her head rested, Albert Atherton sat like one entranced, now for the first time in his life hearing the voice of conscience, as in sepulchral tones it whispered-"Murderer! murderer!" Kneeling around the lifeless form, with suppressed sobs, were those who had borne her thither, while, with an expression of deepest anxiety and sorrow, the kind physician bent tearfully over the unconscious one. 
               "Oh, my God! she is dead!" shrieked the mother, throwing herself upon the couch. 
               "My dear Mrs. Blair," said the physician, tenderly drawing her away, "Agnes is not dead, though I fear she is past all human aid. See, she breathes, though faintly, and I can perceive a little fluttering at her pulse." 
               "Then she will live, doctor! Oh, say that she will live!" Mrs. Blair cried eagerly, lifting her anguished face to his. 
               "Would to Heaven I could say so!" exclaimed he, wiping his eye, "but her life is in the hands of One who doeth all things well. Can you not trust in Him, Mrs. Blair?" 
               The heart of the Christian triumphed over the mother, as she murmured,-"I can-I do; but oh, how heavily has His hand fallen upon me!" 
               "Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth," said a low, sweet voice near her; and Mrs. Blair looked quickly into the upturned face so full of sympathy. 
               "'Tis my sister's self that speaks through you," said she. "In this dark hour I feel her spirit near. But oh, Agnes! my only one!" she cried in piteous tones, "how can I live in this desolate world without thee, the light of my life!" 
               None essayed to stay the mighty flood of grief which burst from her o'ercharged heart, as, sinking before her earthly all, the agonized mother bowed and wept;-wept, till it seemed that the fountains of life must be dried within her. Then they laid her, weak and helpless almost as her child, where her gaze could rest on the beloved face. 
               For hours, in that still, deathlike trance, Agnes lay,-all their efforts could not win back the broken spirit,-but as the silver cord loosened, and brighter its wings plumed for upward flight, a smile of immortal beauty and glory chased the grief from those rigid features. 
               "The change is approaching," whispered the physician, and around her they stood,-the heart-stricken mother, the weeping friends, and he-oh, by what name should he be called!-All gazed in speechless sorrow, as the dread messenger laid his cold hand upon his prize. His icy touch seemed to arouse the dying one; for her eyes unclosed, and with deep tenderness rested on the dear familiar face of her childhood's love. Joy unspeakable! light ineffable shone in those blue orbs, in this last farewell. 
               "Speak to me, Agnes: say that you forgive me," said a voice whose tones of subdued agony had power, even then, to reach her heart. 
               The palsied tongue refused to give the heart's utterance, but she turned upon him a look, such as angels might wear,-a look of pity and forgiving love, and then she gently passed away. 
               "Young man, look upon your work!" solemnly exclaimed the physician, pointing to the lifeless clay. But Albert Atherton had fled;-fled, he knew not, cared not where, so that the terrible voice within should be stilled. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Ay, turn and weep-'tis manliness 
                        To be heart-broken here-" 
                     
                   
                
               THE tolling bell, the sable pall, the slow and mournful tread of death's pale, weeping followers, though scarce heeded in the noisy tumult of city life, told of one more treasure laid in earth's bosom. No pomp or pageant marked the sad funereal train which bore to her last, long home, the marble form of Agnes Blair. Calmly and peacefully they laid her down in her cold sleep,-the last of earth's hopes to the smitten one who bent in silent anguish over the narrow bed. Widowed and childless now, she must tread alone the weary path which will lead her here at last-here, where now she would fain lay her head and be at rest. Yet not alone, for He in whom her heart has ever rested, will not suffer his chosen one to be wholly forsaken. He will yet mingle many drops of gladness in her cup of sorrow. 
               Back to her desolate home she turned,-desolate, though voices of sympathy and friendship were there,- desolate, for now had its light gone out for ever. Friends gathered around the sorrowing mother, for Agnes had been a universal favorite, and the news of her sudden, untimely death came with startling effect to many, who had but recently seen her in all her youthful bloom and beauty. But no voice came with such soothing power to the bereaved heart, as those soft, gentle tones, which first fell on her ear over Agnes' dying form. Whether it was her age, so nearly that of Agnes, or her perfect loveliness, in which the fond mother fancied a resemblance to her lost child, Mrs. Blair never seemed so calm and happy, as when Miss Singleton was by her side. A secret sympathy seemed to have sprung up between the motherless and childless one, as day after day the fair girl sought to cheer the mourner's home. 
               Miss Mowbray and her friend had left the quiet enjoyment of Willow Glen, and returned to the city, at Judge Morton's request, to await his return from a distant town, whither he had traced, as he hoped, the heiress' much sought-for relatives. Thus had she been, unwittingly, the cause of hastening poor Agnes' tragic fate, by revealing the base character of her false lover. Miss Mowbray was shocked and grieved by the sad denouement in which she had borne an innocent part, and deeply did she loathe the wretch who had brought such woe and desolation into a happy home. But soon other thoughts claimed her attention, though not to the exclusion of every kindness which wealth and affection could bestow on the lonely widow. 
                
               Judge Morton returned, and brought intelligence that gave some faint hope, that their search might yet be rewarded. He had, as he said, traced all the Barn-well family (to which Mrs. Mowbray belonged) to their graves, except one. Jane Barnwell, the favorite sister of hers who had gone abroad, had left home in great depression of spirits, immediately after the death of the old people, and the sale of the homestead, and had never been heard from since, save through rumor, which said that she had supported herself by teaching in the city. There was therefore a possibility that she might be still living, somewhere in Boston, and if so, they would most assuredly find her. Judge Morton saw not,-for he seldom noticed her,-the fluctuating cheek, the parted lips, the eager, devouring glance of Miss Mowbray's companion, as she listened in breathless excitement to his recital of his efforts and their results. He did not see-what Richard Morton, whose eyes were ever upon her, saw with inexpressible surprise, that the information affected her far more strongly than the heiress. Had Richard been less noble, he might have attributed it to the fear of being supplanted in the wealthy girl's favor; but no such selfish feeling could be traced in her beautiful face, as, forgetful even of his presence, she threw her arms around her friend, earnestly exclaiming,-"Thank God, one may yet be found." 
               "You seem strangely interested in your friend's success," said Richard to her, as they sat alone that evening. 
                
               "Do I?" she quickly asked, with a conscious blush; "but why should I not?" she added, "her interests are as dear to me as my own. We have been like sisters always." 
               "The world, that does not know you as I do," said Richard, with a smile, "might impute other motives." 
               "What, pray?" she asked with surprise. 
               "Such, perhaps, as a too eager desire to retain your present favored position, as Miss Mowbray's dear and confidential friend, which the discovery of her kindred might affect." 
               Richard Morton repented his words ere they were spoken, for the deep flush which had at first risen to the young girl's brow, gave place to an expression of pain, such as a sensitive nature like hers would feel when deeply wounded. 
               "Can it be possible," she exclaimed, and there was more of grief than indignation in her voice,-"can it be possible that there are any among your acquaintances, Mr. Morton, that look upon me as so heartless-so degraded?" 
               "Forgive me, my dear Miss Singleton," cried he, warmly, "that I have caused you such a pang. I did not mean that I-that any of my friends, could think thus of you." 
               "To whom then did you allude?" she asked. 
               "I meant only the world,-those who look upon the surface of things,-those who could not see the beautiful, hidden life there is in you." 
                
               Richard stopped, and a crimson spot burned in the fair girl's cheek, as she replied- 
               "And what care I for the world! A homeless, dependent one, their smiles are not for me. Thank God, for once they worship worth, when they pay their tribute to my dear, beautiful friend, Miss Mowbray." 
               "Did I but dare," said Richard, and his low, deep tones were music to the ear that listened,-"I could tell you of one who, in the 'homeless, dependent one,' sees more beauty, more worth, more priceless virtue, than he had ever thought to find on earth. Pardon me, Miss Singleton," he added, as she withdrew the hand he attempted to take, "I did not mean thus to betray myself, till I could read in your eyes some hope that I had not loved in vain,-that my heart's wild pleadings met there their silent response. But now that you know all, tell me if I may yet hope to win that, without which the world is naught to me; or must my dream of joy end only in a bitter awakening?" 
               He paused, and with downcast eye and trembling voice the maiden rejoined,- 
               "I would you had not spoken thus to me, Mr. Morton; though in my heart I thank you for your noble forgetfulness of the wide distinction there is in our social positions, and for the honor you would confer upon me;but-" 
               "Nay, nay!" cried he earnestly, "I cannot permit you to proceed further upon such a false plea. I am rather seeking than conferring honor. But do not, I entreat you, speak of position, or honor now; my heart asks but one question, and in your reply the happiness of my life is staked;-can its deep devotion hope for reward-the reward even of your own priceless love?" 
               The fair girl raised her eyes, suffused with tears, to the manly face bent so eagerly forward for her reply. 
               "You bid me not to speak of honor, or position," said she; "but do you not forget the duties you owe your family and friends, when you thus seek the love of a poor, friendless, unportioned orphan like me?" 
               "I owe no duties," said he, "that call for the sacrifice of all my heart's dearest hopes." 
               "But your parents," she urged, "you know they have high expectations for you, their only son and heir." 
               "My dear Miss Singleton," exclaimed Richard impatiently, "I beg you will not tantalize me more. Whatever my parents' expectations may be,-whatever the world may say, or think, I care not-I ask only your love, and the pledge of this dear hand through life, and my happiness is secured." 
               "Your noble offer deserves a truthful answer, and it shall receive such," said the maiden, while a deep glow of happiness spread over her burning cheeks, as she frankly extended her hand. 
               The smile of perfect confidence and joy which irradiated their faces, as an hour later they parted, told what that answer had been. 
               In her silent chamber, where so lately Death had left his cold imprint, and where yet his dread presence seemed to linger, Mrs. Blair sat in deep meditation. Hers had been a life of anxiety and toil; but how light the labor, how sweet the solicitude, whose secret spring was love,-whose reward the happy smiles of conjugal and filial tenderness. One by one her treasures had been recalled by their Giver, and, bowing her head submissively to the sad decree, she still thanked God for what remained, and labored on. Now, all was gone, her life aimless, and but for her faith in him who chastened, hopeless.
                
               Thus, for a long time she sat, her face buried in her hands, while she reviewed the way through which she had been led. 
               "Why should I give any thought to the future?" said she, rising and ringing the bell; "the little that will carry me to my grave will be provided." 
               Becky," said she, as her summons was answered by a colored servant, "come in; I must have some talk with you this morning. You have been a kind and faithful servant to me and mine for many years"-she began, but tears choked her utterance. 
               "Dat's nuffin', missus," said Becky, rolling her eyes and moving uneasily at what she feared was coming; "didn't your fader-good ole massa-keep me from sumthin' nuff sight worse'n death?" 
               "He saved you from being sold as a slave I know," Mrs. Blair replied, "but that didn't oblige you to labor for us always. You have, as I said before, been kind and faithful to those who are gone, and nothing but necessity would compel me to part from you. But I have no longer any home to offer you. All that I have must be sold, to pay the debts I have incurred"-she could not add-"for Agnes," though every thing had been pledged to secure comforts and luxuries for the beloved one. 
               Becky's dark form vanished as Mrs. Blair ceased speaking, but she quickly returned, and with a low chuckle, threw a heavy bag into her mistress's lap. 
               "D'ye s'pose," said she, "dis nig wanted all dis money to cover her wool; Lor, I couldn't do nuffin' wid it, so I puts it away and ses 'maybe some time 'twon't be jes 'venient for missus to send to de bank, an den here 'tis." 
               "What's all this,-what do you mean, Becky?" exclaimed Mrs. Blair with astonishment, as she looked at the contents of the bag. 
               "Jes your money, missus, dat's all,-he-he," laughed Becky. 
               Tears sprang into the widow's eyes, and her lip quivered as she handed back the treasure. 
               "Noble creature!" she exclaimed,-"you have well crowned your faithfulness;-no, I cannot take it, Becky, I do not need it so much as you, now that you must find your home among strangers; but I shall never forget your generous heart, Becky." 
               "Den 'tant worth nuffin' 'tall;" cried Becky, throwing the money upon the floor in her grief, "'cause I'd jes die 'fore I'd leave you, missus." 
               "You distress me; indeed you do, Becky," said Mrs. Blair. "Heaven knows I would not part with you, the last of my father's household, if it could be helped; but, Becky, this home is mine no longer,-I have nothing, literally nothing, in this world." 
               "Can't help dat," muttered Becky, as she hastened to the door to answer the bell which had twice rung, leaving the money still on the floor, "dis chile aint gwine no how." 
               "Here then is the secret of Becky's housekeeping," thought Mrs. Blair; "I've often wondered how she could manage to make things last so long, and keep such a nice table too. What a noble, unselfish heart is hidden under that dark skin!" 
               "The young ladies is below, missus." 
               "Stop, Becky," cried Mrs. Blair, as the ebony face disappeared as soon as her message was delivered. But Becky had gone to her loft, to constitute herself a committee of ways and means for the future, into which she had but just gained a true glimpse. 
               "You find me unusually sad this morning," said Mrs. Blair, after she had greeted her young guests, now her constant daily visitors; "but it is a sadness not unmixed with pleasure." 
               "What is it, my dear Mrs. Blair?" asked Miss Singleton, taking her usual place at the widow's side, and gently laying her hand upon her arm; "I hope nothing serious has occurred to sadden you." 
               "Nothing more, dear girl, than the associations which would naturally arise in preparing to leave a house where I have enjoyed, as well as suffered, much." 
                
               "But why do you leave it? is it too lonely for you here?" 
               "It is lonely; very," replied Mrs. Blair, evasively; "now that there is no one left but me, this house is quite too large." 
               "May I ask your plans for the future," said the young lady, "our deep interest in your happiness will, I know, excuse my inquisitiveness." 
               "I have already had sufficient proof of your friendship, my dear girls, to justify any confidence you may ask. My plans are scarcely defined as yet. I wish first of all to provide a good home for my faithful colored servant, who has lived both in my father's house and my own, many years, and whose devotion and fidelity cannot be surpassed." 
               "Why not retain her with you?" asked Miss Mowbray. 
               "I cannot-she can no longer serve me when I go from here." 
               "She is just such a person as I should like," said the heiress, exchanging glances with her friend; "we will take her and see that she is always well cared for." 
               "You cannot think what a load you have removed from my mind," said Mrs. Blair, gratefully; "now I shall have only myself to look after." 
               "And you-where do you propose to go?" The question was asked in sad, gentle tones, while the speaker's dark eyes rested tenderly upon her troubled face. 
               "I would, if possible," said she, "revisit the scenes of my childhood's happy hours. Though no kindred are there-though none would recognize me now, it would comfort me to look once more upon my parents' graves and the dear home where I parted from my soul's companion-my darling sister. Perhaps too I might be able to support myself there among these cherished associations." 
               This was the first allusion Mrs. Blair had ever made to her pecuniary circumstances, and the young ladies delicately avoided noticing it, though it dwelt in their hearts to be responded to hereafter. 
               "How soon shall you leave us?" Miss Mowbray asked. 
               "As soon as you can make arrangements for Becky's reception," Mrs. Blair replied with a sad smile; "'twill be hard parting with the faithful creature, the only remaining link of my father's household. Shall I call her and introduce her to her new 'missus?'" 
               "If you please," replied the heiress, "I should like to talk with her." 
               "'Taint jes nuffin 'tall missus talks 'bout!" exclaimed Becky, indignantly, when she was called into the parlor to be transferred to another's care; "I aint gwine no how. Ole massa 'ats dead and gone 'ud jump rite out 'er his grave if I'se done gone lef poor Miss Jane. No, dis nig stays here 'long o' missus." 
               "But I am going away, Becky," remonstrated Mrs. Blair. 
               "Den dis nig go too," was the quick rejoinder. 
                
               "No, Becky," said Mrs. Blair decidedly, "you cannot go with me; you know I would have you if I could." 
               "O Lor'," cried Becky, putting her apron to her eyes and rocking back and forth in her grief, "what ole massa Barnwell say ef he knowed his poor darter Jane gwine way off 'lone." 
               "What did you say?" cried the young ladies in one breath, catching hold of the negro's arm. 
               "Poor ole massa," she continued, moaning, without noticing them, "he done gone long 'go when Miss Juley went off-dis nig'll be done gone too when young missus goes." 
               "Mrs. Blair, for heaven's sake, tell me what she means," cried Miss Singleton, pale and breathless with excitement; "she is talking of people we would give worlds to discover." 
               "She is speaking of my father," replied Mrs. Blair, scarcely less agitated; "why do you wish to hear of him?" 
               "But she called his name Barnwell," almost gasped the eager girl. 
               "Certainly,-that was his name." 
               "And yours?" 
               "Jane Barnwell before I became Mrs. Blair." 
               "Oh, blessed, joyful discovery!" exclaimed Miss Singleton, throwing her arms around the astonished woman, "my own dear, dear aunt!" 
               "But who are you?" cried Mrs. Blair, gazing with trembling eagerness in her beautiful face, "sweet image of my precious, lost sister." 
               "I am that sister's child," was the earnest answer, and they were folded to each other's heart. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The issues of the heart at home,
                         
                        Disclose the fount from whence they come 
                        To curse or bless life's swelling tide, 
                        As rough, or smooth, they onward glide." 
                     
                   
                
               "I HEAR wonderful accounts of the wealth of our new neighbor." 
               "Indeed!" was the Rev. Mrs. Flint's quiet response to her husband's remark. 
               "Indeed!" he repeated in the same tone, with a sneer; "one would think, Mrs. Flint, that you felt very little interest in my people." 
               "I am sure I do," she meekly replied; "it was only yesterday that I walked a mile and a half to see the poor, sick woman whom you have not had time to visit yet, though it is three or four weeks since she sent for you." 
               "It is strange," said he, in no very ministerial tones, "how one's early associations often affect the mind through life. You seem to take delight in the company of the poor, Mary." 
                
               "You and I know too well the sufferings and privations of poverty, not to feel a deep sympathy for those who are afflicted now as we once were," Mrs. Flint replied with feeling. 
               "Why cannot you cease your allusions to those days, Mary; you are continually harping upon them. But for my shrewd management we might have been as poor as we were then." And Mr. Flint stroked his gray locks with self-satisfaction. 
               "Every one cannot manage as shrewdly as you," his wife ventured to remark; "are they therefore to blame for being poor?" 
               "To blame! to be sure,-there is no need of any body being poor," said the charitable minister; "extravagance and mismanagement are the only causes of poverty, in my opinion." 
               The good lady suppressed the inquiry that rose to her lips,-what extravagance either his or her parents were guilty of, when struggling to support their half-fed, half-clothed families? for she knew from experience what a scene of bitter recrimination might ensue; so she very mildly remarked, 
               "You were speaking of our new neighbors, at Woodbine Lodge; are they so very rich?" 
               "Neighbor, you mean," said he, correcting her; "the other persons there are only dependents upon Miss Mowbray; she is said to be a millionnaire. Only think what an addition to our society! I must call on her this very day." 
               "Shall I go with you?" was the humble query. 
                
               "Well,-I think not," he slowly articulated; "it is very important that the heiress' first impressions should be right. I wish you would have my finest wardrobe in readiness, for I must look my best." 
               "Yes, sir," sighed the obedient wife as she left the room. 
               Two hours later, the Rev. Mr. Flint, arrayed in snowy, spotless linen and shining broadcloth, walked with stately, solemn steps up the broad avenue "which led" (in his own words) "to fortune's door." 
               A casual observer might, perhaps, have mistaken the air of extreme deference with which he accosted the heiress, for humility; but not such was she whose dark eyes looked so quickly into his narrow soul. "A mere dependent," as he deemed her, Miss Singleton had ample time to read the pastor's character; for the few remarks, made in a patronizing manner to her, were easily answered. 
               "I regret extremely," said he, at the conclusion of his call, "that Mrs. Flint could not have enjoyed this delightful visit with me." 
               "Our regret is certainly equal to your own," politely replied Miss Mowbray; "when shall we have the pleasure of seeing her here?" 
               "Soon, I trust," he answered,-"her delicate health necessarily precludes her from many of the pleasures as well as duties of pastoral life. She was too tenderly brought up to endure much." 
               "The fault, perhaps, of your American habits," said Miss Mowbray, with a smile; "your ladies here, particularly ticularly among the wealthy, seem to look upon outdoor exercise as masculine." 
               "You must institute a reform among us, Miss Mowbray, not only in this, but in many other things. Your wealth will give you great influence here." 
               "I should be sorry indeed, were my influence to depend on the fortune I may possess," Miss Mowbray replied, almost sternly. "I trust your people are actuated by higher, holier motives." 
               "Ah-yes-of course," he stammered; "but," looking at his watch, "I find I have stayed beyond my time; so I must, though reluctantly, bid you good morning." 
               "A young lady of some spirit," he soliloquized, going home,-"must look out how I venture another opinion till I have studied her more carefully-hope she hasn't got any of Thornton's fanatical notions in her head,-must take care and get into her good graces before they do." 
               "Now, I am going to sit in judgment on that man. Nay, dear aunt, put off that sober look; I know you think the sacred cloth should be venerated, and so do I, but not always what is under it. Unless I am greatly deceived, his name well represents his nature too-flinty, cold, unsympathizing,-sincere only in his devotion to mammon-there, what do you think of that, for a picture of our minister!" said the laughing girl, enjoying the half-horrified expression of the others' faces. 
               "Oh, Lucille dear, you should not carry your jokes too far," said the elder lady, shaking her head. 
                
               "But I assure you, I am not joking, my good aunt," replied the other; "see if he does not prove all I have said of him." 
               "Lucille is piqued a little, because he did not notice her as much as he ought to," smilingly added her companion; "it's all her own fault though, isn't it, Aunt Blair?" 
               "Yes; if she will persist in her disguise she must expect annoyances worse than this, and trouble too, I fear," replied the lady appealed to;-"only think how long it prevented my recognizing her." 
               "Don't you see," cried Lucille, whom we will rightly designate in her undisguised home circle, "don't you see how you are substantiating my course? These very annoyances of which you warn me are what I seek to know-to feel. I would be weighed in the balance of worth, not money!" 
               "Ah! my dear, you cannot expect that in this world." 
               "But I do expect it, aunt; and in two cases, at least, I have not been disappointed. You, for one, I shall always believe, loved me simply for myself, before you knew, either that I was your niece, or rich." 
               "Dear child, you can never realize how deep into my heart you sank, when like a voice from heaven you breathed in my ear those comforting words over Agnes' departing spirit. I felt your sainted mother's presence then, and from that moment I loved you as my own child." 
                
               "And yet we should have parted but for Becky's fortunate revelation." 
               "For a time we might; but I have faith to believe that He who careth even for the sparrows, would not have suffered our separation to be long." 
               "Oh, how happy I have been since that morning," exclaimed Lucille, "to find that you, whom I had learned to love so well, was my own dear mother's sister-and then 'twas such a pleasure to visit the place where she lived; where she first saw my dear father and married him! And then too, since we came back, and bought this beautiful place, I have felt proud and happy in my home with such a mother and sister;" and the lovely girl wound an arm around each companion, and imprinted a warm kiss upon their cheeks. 
               "If you would but take me from the usurper's place, dear Lucille," said Maggie, returning the caress, "you would be happier still." 
               "No, believe me, not a hundredth part so happy," quickly replied Lucille; "but you, dear Maggie, am I really sacrificing your happiness for my own?" and she looked earnestly into her face. 
               "It certainly cannot be any great sacrifice for me, who am nobody nor nothing, to be flattered, caressed, and looked up to as a perfect oracle of fashion and wisdom," was Maggie's laughing reply; "nevertheless, I will gladly doff my gay plumes whenever the genuine bird will make herself known." 
               "Not yet-not yet," cried Lucille, laughing and blushing, "lest the bird should lose its mate." 
                
               "Aha," said Maggie, "that's it, is it? You think the golden cage would be too dazzling, eh? Well, for my part, I should doubt the entity of such an one-he could not be of mortal make. But seriously, Lucille dear, now that you and Richard Morton are, despite his friends, betrothed to each other, why not astound them all by declaring yourself the heiress they sought and he avoided?" 
               "Such a step would involve too many difficulties just now, and besides I have not learned enough of the world yet,-this is to be my life-lesson, you know." 
               "Yes, you will scarcely be able to pursue it at Mowbray Hall, where your lightest word is law. Don't you almost long to go back again, Lucille?" 
               "I cannot say that I do," replied the blushing girl;-"life seems so real here-so full of happiness-and yet we shall not return as lonely as we came," she continued, pressing Mrs. Blair's hand; "I shall have a mother there still." 
               "And nobody else?" asked Maggie, mischievously. 
               Lucille's reply was prevented by the entrance of a visitor. 
               "Miss Page, at your service, ladies," announced a small, grotesque-looking person, approaching them with a puzzled air, not knowing which to address, as the hostess. But with true native politeness she advanced to the elder, "I hope you are well, ma'am," said she. 
               "Quite so," replied Mrs. Blair; "shall I introduce to you Miss Mowbray, the lady, I presume, for whom your call was intended?" 
                
               "I did not know there were three ladies here," said Miss Page, bowing; "I am happy to see them all." 
               Her dress, which was the oddest compound of colors and fashions, had evidently been put on with much care-over her shoulders, notwithstanding the heat of the season, she had thrown an intensely red shawl; while, towering in pristine beauty above all, was the steeple-crowned bonnet, unsullied as when her great-grandmother received it from the artist's hands. Ah! Miss Priscilla, has mammon at last caught you at its shrine, that you too must thus "look your" best before the "millionnaire!" 
               "Our neighbors have been very attentive," remarked Miss Mowbray, scarcely able to repress a smile at the earnestness with which the odd-looking person regarded her; "it is really kind in you all to remember that we are strangers and need some neighborly acquaintances." 
               "Humph!" said Miss Priscilla, with a shrug, "here's a new blacksmith come into town just alter you did;-how many do you s'pose has called on his wife, who is poor, and feeble too?" 
               "I should think in a community like this," replied Miss Mowbray, "she would not only receive many calls, but more substantial assistance." 
               "That shows just how much you know of the world," said her visitor, not unkindly;-"now this young lady here, I venture, could tell you a good many things about the way poor folks are treated; though, being your companion, she doesn't know the worst by a good deal." 
               "I know enough about it," said the young lady with a smile, "and I appreciate your honest, outspoken words." 
               "I allers did say jest what I thought, and I allers mean to," Miss Priscilla replied; "now there's lots o' folks come here, that wouldn't a' spoke to you, if you was as poor as Miss Denton, the blacksmith's wife." 
               "I do not doubt it in the least," was Miss Mowbray's earnest reply; "I have seen more of the world than you suspect, Miss Page, enough at least to make me sick of its heartlessness." 
               "I sed the very minnit I sot eyes on you, says I to Polly Bemis, 'there's a lady, Polly, none o' your stuck-up ones nuther; but a real bonny fidy one, jest like Miss Thornton.'" 
               "I certainly should be very proud of the comparison, if I deserved it," said Miss Mowbray, laughing; "for Mrs. Thornton is my ideal of a lady-dignified without pride, refined without affectation, and generous, almost to a fault, without ostentation." 
               "She's all that and ever so much more," cried Miss Priscilla enthusiastically; "I don't believe, if an angel from heaven could come down here and live, they'd be any better. Why, she's made the lame walk, the sick well, and poor desponding critters that hadn't got nothin' to live for, she's sot right up in the world, and made 'em feel as good as any body." 
               "Mrs. Thornton would feel highly flattered by your remarks if she should hear them," Mrs. Blair observed with a quiet smile. 
               "No she wouldn't nuther, ma'am; she'd say jest what she has a hundred times before to me; 'Miss Page,' sed she to me, 'such praise belongs not to a poor, imperfect being like me; I much fear that the final account which I must render of my stewardship, will be found full of mistakes and errors'-so you see, ma'am, she don't look upon her wealth as her own-only given her to do good with." 
               "Admirable woman! would that the world were full of such!" exclaimed Miss Mowbray's friend. 
               Miss Priscilla turned to the speaker with a peculiar smile. "If the world was full of 'em," said she, "you and I wouldn't be dependent no longer, would we?" 
               "The dependence I feel is by no means disagreeable to me," replied the young lady, looking at her companion. 
               "That's all very well for one to say who can't help themselves; but wouldn't you like now to change places with Miss Mowbray here, if you could?" 
               The burst of merriment which followed her question, in which even staid Mrs. Blair seemed almost inclined to join, quite disconcerted Miss Priscilla. 
               "I'm sure I meant no offence," said she, apologetically. 
               "Oh no, certainly not," said the young lady, whose brown eyes still sparkled with fun; "but just think how I should look setting up to be a rich lady." 
               "I've seen many a one who deserved it less," said Miss Priscilla, whose heart was fairly won by the rich, musical laugh which followed Miss Singleton's remark. 
                
               "And none who deserved it more," added Miss Mowbray, throwing her arm around her companion. 
               "Did you hear our minister's sermon last Sunday about being contented with such things as we have?" asked Miss Priscilla. 
               "Yes, I did, and liked it very much," Miss Mowbray replied. 
               "Oh yes, it's mighty fine doctrine for the rich; but I can tell you, Miss Mowbray, there's many a poor family here that has to be contented with one meal a day, and drefful poor at that." 
               "Is it possible?" exclaimed Miss Mowbray; "why I thought this was a very thriving place. It is not long since I saw a notice in many of the papers of the uncommon benevolence of the people here." 
               "Oh yes, wonderful benevolence, jest 'cause they give a hundred dollars to make Mister Flint a director in some outlandish society, and let the poor critters all 'round 'em starve," retorted the spinster with feeling. 
               "Surely that could not be called 'benevolence,'" said Mrs. Blair. "I think that true charity always begins at home." 
               "So do I, ma'am," said Miss Priscilla, respectfully, "and that makes me think of my errand; we've been tryin' to get up a Sunday-school class among the poor children, and not one on 'em, as I've found, has got a decent suit o' clothes to wear,-so I thought mabbe I could go round and get enough to fix 'em up so they'd do." 
               "Your object is very praiseworthy," said Miss Mowbray bray, drawing forth her purse, "I thank you for calling on me-here are ten dollars for you, and whenever you know of any one in want, come to me." 
               "Here are ten more," added Miss Singleton, slipping a bill in her hands; "some day I should like to go with you, and see these poor people of whom you speak." 
               It aint for me to thank you," said Miss Priscilla, in a grateful tone, "there's better hearts 'n mine 'll do that." 
               In a few minutes her steeple-crowned bonnet was seen bobbing off in the direction of the Parsonage. 
               "There, there, Mister Flint!" cried she, entering that worthy's study, with her hand held out triumphantly towards him, "didn't I tell you you hadn't squeezed us all dry when you sent off that hundred dollars, eh?" 
               "What do you mean, Miss Priscilla?" he asked, in no very good humor. 
               "You know what I mean; when I axed you about fixing them poor children for the Sunday school, you said we had done so much lately, the thing couldn't be accomplished at present, that's what you said, wasn't it?" 
               "Why, yes,-I knew it would take a good deal to do what you proposed, and it's very hard times with us now, and-" 
               "Well, well," said she, interrupting him, "hard times or no hard times, here's more'n ever we'll want to get every one on 'em some good clothes." 
                
               "Eh? you don't say so!" said the minister, opening his eyes wide, as she displayed a handful of bills before his greedy sight; "where did all this come from?" 
               "Well, I guess there's some folks here, if they be rich, aint afraid o' helping poor folks too much," Miss Priscilla said, with an emphasis which he well understood. 
               "Have you been to Woodbine Lodge?" he asked, pretending not to notice her meaning. 
               "Well, I shouldn't be surprised if I had," said she, with a knowing look. 
               "Did they say any thing about me there?" 
               "You? la, no sir; what should they have to say about you, sir!" 
               "Nothing," said he, ashamed of the feeling he had betrayed; "but what did they give you there?" 
               "Twenty-five dollars, sir; Miss Mowbray gave me ten, and the young lady that's with her, ten, and the old lady, five-wasn't that handsome, sir?" 
               "Very; but you say the young lady gave ten! why she's nothing herself but a charity-seeker-it's wrong, absolutely wrong, for her to give away Miss Mowbray's money so." 
               "Charity-seeker, or not," exclaimed Miss Priscilla, waxing warm in her indignation, "she's got a heart, sir, and that's what some of us can't boast, sir; Miss Mowbray loves her like a sister, I could see that." 
               "Ah? that alters the case, then," and Mr. Flint jotted down in his memory that he must be a little more attentive to the young lady next time he called. 
                
               "I don't think it alters the case one mite," said the still vexed little woman; "she's jest as good, and she aint no better 'n if she hadn't a sixpence. For my part," she continued, rolling up the bills, and putting them in her pocket, "I'm sick and tired of all this bowing and sarving money, money, money. Have you been to see Miss Denton yet, sir?" 
               "No, really; I am so busy I haven't time to make calls." 
               "Humph!" Miss Priscilla began, while her small black eyes flashed, but at that moment she felt a soft touch on the arm. 
               "I've got a nice cup of tea for you in the other room," said the minister's dutiful wife, and the visitor's caustic tongue was arrested in its course. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Honor to him, who, self-complete and brave, 
                        In scorn can carve his pathway to the grave, 
                        And heeding naught of what men think or say, 
                        Make his own heart his world upon the way." 
                     
                   
                
               THROUGH the busy throng, which crossed and recrossed each other at every angle, Richard Morton walked with silent, thoughtful steps. "Twenty-one to-day," said he, thinking aloud in his abstraction, "and what am I? a mere hanger-on in my father's house-with no settled plan, or purpose in life before me. I have education, talents, and capacity, for being something more than a rich man's son, and I will be something more. Had I no other incentive to effort, the promise of Maggie's hand would drive me to move heaven and earth to gain the prize. But one more trial, and that, on this very day when I attain my majority, will I make to win my father's consent to our marriage, and then, if he refuse, I will adopt my sweet counsellor's advice, and work out for myself, by honest toil, an honorable name and destiny. I should glory in it; and but for the delay it would cause in making her mine, should choose it rather as my portion, than the fortune which my father will bestow upon me." 
               Thus he mused till he reached the office, where, to his surprise, he found his father busily engaged at his desk, with a confusion of papers around him. 
               "Really, sir," said Richard, approaching him with a smile, "your example is quite a reproach to my tardiness-what brought you out so early this morning?" 
               Judge Morton looked up, and for a moment the world seemed banished from that face. "You are twenty-one to-day, my son," said he, holding out his hand affectionately; "permit me to congratulate you on the freedom of thought and action which henceforth belong to you." 
               Richard warmly grasped the extended hand. "I thank you, sir," said he, with deep feeling; "a father's kind wishes I consider a most auspicious omen for the future." 
               "And you have thought sometimes, that I have felt unkindly towards you, Richard, have you not?" 
               "You can best judge, sir, whether I had reason so to think," replied Richard, respectfully, surprised at his father's unwonted humor. 
               "Well, well, perhaps you had-I won't say you hadn't," the Judge quickly added, "but to-day, my son, we must look at things a little differently. Read that paper, and see if your father cares for you." 
               Judge Morton watched with the deepest interest the varying emotions of Richard's expressive face, as he perused the document placed in his hands. He had determined to enforce his son's obedience to his own wishes by a new mode of treatment, but as he gazed with fatherly pride upon the noble bearing of one who was to perpetuate his name, something within whispered, that as in the past, so for the future, the young man would be governed only by the highest, purest motives. For a moment his selfish heart did homage to his son's worth, but the next, as he saw Richard's eyes raised from the paper with a grateful look, he was himself again. 
               "This is indeed generous, father, but before I can accept it we must have a full and perfect understanding with each other." 
               "Certainly, my son; that is very desirable-we have never been as familiar as I could have wished." 
               Richard bit his lip, for he well knew why. "I may as well be frank with you at once," said he; "will you, with this fortune, give your consent to my marriage with Miss Singleton." 
               "Never!" replied his father, quickly; "neither will I give you the fortune if you do marry her." 
               "Very well, sir," Richard calmly answered; "then I renounce the fortune, which in truth I do not crave, except for her sake." 
               "No doubt the fortune would be necessary to secure her," was the Judge's bitter reply;-"penniless girls like her look pretty sharp after money." 
               "You mistook my meaning entirely, sir," replied Richard, indignantly; "Miss Singleton has no mercenary views, or she would not have rejected the independence pendence Miss Mowbray sought to settle upon her, No, sir; my only desire for wealth is, that I may place her in the position she deserves." 
               "Richard, you are my only son, and I have a right to expect that you will not disgrace my name by a dishonorable connection:" the Judge spoke sternly. 
               "And I pledge you here, sir, that I will never disgrace you, or myself in that way;" was Richard's earnest rejoinder; "Miss Singleton's hand would honor a noble." 
               "Are you irretrievably bent upon your mad scheme of marrying her, Richard, when one beautiful, accomplished, with noble blood in her veins, and the wealth of Crsus at her command, waits but your asking, to give you her hand?" asked the Judge. 
               "If, as I suppose, you allude to Miss Mowbray," replied Richard, "you were never more mistaken in your life.-She waits no person's asking, for she will not marry here; but much as I esteem her, were she ten times more beautiful, wealthy, and accomplished, she could never fill the place in my heart that Miss Singleton does." 
               "All tomfoolery and nonsense!" exclaimed the Judge impatiently; "the girl has bewitched you, boy-but let me tell you, not one cent of my hard-earned money shall ever go to support her, the artful jade." 
               "Father!" cried Richard, springing to his feet, excitedly, "you may cast insult and opprobrium upon me, but her name shall be sacred. Unsay those words, I entreat." 
                
               "So far from unsaying them, young man," said the Judge, his lips white with passion, "I will add what your mother and sisters agree with me in believing-that her intrigues are only equalled by her deceit." 
               "Had any other than you, sir, uttered those words," said Richard, in a low tone, "his tongue should have been silenced ere they could escape his lips. But now I can only say, that when you are ready to do justice to outraged innocence, I will receive your apology.-Till then you see me not;" and with these words the young man left his father's presence. 
               For some moments Judge Morton sat silently, leaning his head upon his hand. 
               "Perhaps I have been hasty," said he, at length, raising his head; "but the foolish fellow provoked me so. He'll feel better by to-morrow morning, and then we'll see if we can't compromise some way. It won't do to have a quarrel; for he's a great favorite, and I should only get all the blame." Little did that father know the spirit he had so grievously wounded-before the "morrow" dawned, Richard had left behind him the home which should have cherished him as its glory and pride. 
               "I had foreseen this some time ago," said Melville Thornton in reply to a communication to which he had been listening, and with which our readers are already acquainted, "and yet I scarcely know what to say to you, my young friend." 
               "I have come to you and your excellent wife for counsel," Richard Morton replied; "for I know you will deal frankly with me. Wherever I have erred, I would make reparation at once; but, with your approbation of my course, I can go on, feeling strong in the right." 
               "You place me under great responsibility," said Mr. Thornton; "but I would fain be of service to you, if possible, in your painful situation. I do not think you have erred-on the contrary, you have shown a nobleness of heart and purpose, that places you higher in my estimation than ever. What says my wife?" he added, turning to her with a smile. 
               "Oh, woman's sympathies are always with the heart," Mrs. Thornton replied archly; "but did I not know that Mr. Morton has chosen wisely in this respect, I might read him a homily on filial obedience. Allow me to say, Mr. Morton," she added, while a tear trembled in her eye, "that you have proved yourself worthy of one who, I had thought, could scarce be mated. God prosper you in the future till you shall receive your reward!" 
               Completely overcome with their generous sympathy, Richard Morton bowed his head in his hands and wept-yes, the strong man wept in the fulness of his gratitude for these first flowers strewn in the path he had chosen. 
               "Your kindness has quite unmanned me," he said at length, controlling his emotion. "I can steel my heart against unkindness and reproach; but for such warm, earnest sympathy, I was scarcely prepared." 
               "Let me bestow it in a more substantial way than words," said Mr. Thornton, slipping a purse in his hand; "the suddenness with which you left your home, may render this useful to you." 
               "Your generosity is none the less noble," replied Richard, returning it, "that I do not need your gift. I am not such a spendthrift as my father's liberal allowance would imply. I have sufficient for the present; and for the future," he added with a smile, "my own exertions must provide." 
               "You will find your path beset with trials and temptations," said Mr. Thornton; "but I have confidence in the firmness of your purpose and the ultimate success of your hopes." 
               "Such confidence does me honor," replied Richard, "and I can only hope that I may prove worthy of it." 
               "You have already!" cried Mrs. Thornton earnestly; "giving up home and fortune is no slight test of principle, in my opinion." 
               "I fear you give my principles too much credit there," Richard answered, blushing deeply; "it would have been an infinitely greater sacrifice for me to have remained at home and yielded to my father's wishes." 
               "Well, you have, at least, shown yourself free from the money-loving spirit of the world," Mrs. Thornton added. 
               "So far from that," Richard smilingly replied, "my whole energies will now be devoted to accumulating an independence." 
               "Ah, but not for yourself, Richard!" 
               "Yes, to secure my own happiness I do it," said he. "Is not that sufficiently selfish for this money-loving world?" 
                
               You are really incorrigible, Richard," said Mrs. Thornton, laughing; "I must give you over to Miss Singleton, to ascertain, if possible, the hidden motives of your strange conduct." 
               "And to that tribunal, with your permission, I will at once resort," he replied gayly, rising to go. 
               "Not till you promise to return here again soon." 
               "I shall be most happy to do so," said he; "for I have need of much friendly advice ere I launch my solitary barque upon the world's wide fluctuating waters." 
               "Here is an epitome of the advice my wife would give, I presume," Mr. Thornton remarked, pointing to the small frame over the mantel. 
               "A whole code of morals in one short sentence!" said Richard, as he read the inscription, "a compendium of goodness to which I fear I shall never attain." 
               "Nor can any attain it except by applying the principle to the most trivial as well as the more important actions of life," Mr. Thornton replied. 
               "In this lies the secret of Willow Glen's far-famed hospitality and benevolence, I suspect," said Richard, as he left the house, accompanied by Mr. Thornton. 
               "I did not know that Willow Glen was famous for its charities," the latter replied, "but I do know that prosperity and happiness have filled our home since my wife established there her golden rule. Were you my own son, Mr. Morton, my earnest advice would be, that you take that motto as your rule of life-abide by it, through whatever trials it may lead you, and my word for it, you will, even in this life, find your reward, and in the life to come, joy eternal." 
                
               "Whatsoever ye would that others should do unto you, do ye even so to them," Richard slowly repeated. "I will endeavor, my dear sir, daily and hourly to lay these words to heart, and in their application I shall feel strengthened by your noble example." 
               "Not mine," hastily replied Mr. Thornton, "but hers, whose near approach to perfection makes my deficiencies more visible-my incomparable wife." 
               "You speak like a lover," said Richard smilingly. 
               "Aye! a thousand times more than a lover," Mr. Thornton added with deep feeling; "her price is indeed far above rubies, and the heart of her husband doth safely trust in her." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "A horrid spectre rises to my sight, 
                        Close by my side, and plain, and palpable." 
                     
                   
                
               FROM the fearful accusations of his newly awakened conscience Albert Atherton vainly endeavored to flee. Ever before his vision rose with terrible distinctness, the face and form of his once beautiful and beloved Agnes. He saw her as when first her artless beauty and purity moved even his callous heart with admiration, and then on the wings of remorse his memory glided over the happy moments, when the gentle, unsuspecting victim had been lured within the fascinations of his serpent eye. He had loved her, it was true; but his was the love that would pluck and not wear; that would gather all the fragrance of the rose and then cast it forth as worthless. With the face of an angel and the tongue of the deceiver, he had wooed and won a heart that could bear no affinity to his own. Pure, guileless and trusting, Agnes had given her whole happiness into his keeping, and with one fell stroke he had crushed even her existence. What remaineth to such but the lashings and goadings of a guilty conscience, the ever flitting shadow of a grim and ghastly visage, whose hoarse whisperings cannot be silenced, while its skeleton fingers ever and anon strive to clutch its prey? Albert Atherton felt the stings of that conscience-he heard the deep whisper of the demon shadow,-"Remorse," and with wild recklessness he sought to silence the dread voices, in the haunts of dissipation and vice. But through his midnight orgies still followed the phantom shadow, and louder than even the gay, ribald song, sounded in his ears its note of warning. 
               "What can a fellow do?" mused he one day, "here, for many months, I've run through a regular course of what the old man would call 'excesses'-I've dipped into every thing that I could think of, and after all I can't get rid of these devilish blues. I believe I'll go home, and see what my lady mother can say for my comfort. She always hated Agnes, and is glad enough she's dead, I suppose. Well, so should I be, if a fellow could only forget! What on earth made me love her so! Pshaw! what do I care for that now!" he added, brushing an unbidden tear from his eye, "I'll go home." 
               And "home," with still the gaunt spectre hovering around him, he went. Shrinking with instinctive guilt from the calm, mild gaze of his father, and the affectionate welcome of his beautiful sister, Albert could feel at ease only in the presence of her whose second self he was. 
                
               To his mother he could confide without reserve even the darkest passions which had swept over his soul, sure of finding there the sympathy he craved. Not a muscle of her immovable face betrayed aught of feeling, as, in language which brought an exultant smile to the shadow beside him, he portrayed the tragic fate of her he had so heartlessly sacrificed, and his own agony, as for months he had vainly striven with his mortal foe within. A scarce perceptible smile of haughty scorn flitted over her features, as he spoke of sorrow for the past, and consequent wretchedness apprehended for the future. 
               Misguided mother! even now it is given thee to snatch thy first-born from the horrible pit thine own false teachings have prepared for him. God help thee, when at last his soul shall be required at thy hands! 
               "Now I've made a clean breast of it," said Albert, as he concluded his dark tale, "I hope you'll be able to drive off these blues. Such qualmish feelings make a fellow almost desperate." 
               "And very manly they are, certainly!" added his mother with a sneer. "I am astonished, Albert, that that designing woman and her consumptive daughter could have wheedled you into the belief that she was dying for you! No doubt they were disappointed that they did not succeed in their manuvres-thank fortune, she is out of your way now! But you do not speak of Miss Mowbray; how speeds your suit there?" 
               "But poorly, I fear," Albert replied, "I have not dared to see her since Agnes died-indeed I have not been near any of them." 
               "Is it possible you are so short-sighted!" exclaimed Mrs. Atherton, angrily; "why, you have taken the very course to convince them of your guilt! You should have faced the whole thing boldly, and not been frightened out of your wits by a parcel of weak women. I am positively ashamed of you." 
               "I have been deuced silly, that's a fact!" said Albert; his momentary gleam of penitence vanishing at his mother's rebuke. "Blast me, if I get fooled so again! But how shall I manage to get back into the heiress's good graces-it will take a woman's quick wit to do that, I'm thinking." 
               "It's a pity you hadn't wit enough to come to me long ago," she replied in a bitter tone; "somebody doubtless has secured the prize while you have been nursing your grief." 
               "Come, come, mother, don't be hard upon me," said Albert, "I'm as glad as you are now, that she's dead and out of my way, and I'm ready to obey you to the letter, if you'll tell me what to do. Have the heiress now, I will, or die!" he added, with, a fearful oath. 
               "Where there's a will there's always a way," said his mother encouragingly. "I am willing to overlook the past, if you will only make good your words and secure her." 
               "What shall I do first? he asked, "I do not even know where she is." 
                
               "In one of your Aunt Charlotte's letters to your father, she mentioned that Miss Mowbray had purchased a beautiful estate near them for a temporary residence-I presume it must be the one we visited when I was there; she probably lives there now, and as your aunt seems to have great influence with her, you must in some way re-establish yourself at Willow Glen, and get their full confidence and aid." 
               "I could do that best through Nettie," said Albert. "You know Aunt Lottie perfectly idolizes her." 
               "I am not quite prepared to trust Lennette there yet," replied the calculating mother; "I fear she hasn't got over those foolish romantic notions about that low fellow, Brown, who tried to entice her away with him I have kept her shut up ever since, and she shall stay shut up till she marries Mr. Selwyn." 
               "Mr. Selwyn!" cried Albert, "why, he's twice her age, mother!" 
               "What of that? he's worth a mint of money, and his wife could hold up her head with the highest in the land." 
               "Net's a fool, if she don't have him then; that is, if she could get him," quoth Albert. 
               "Get him! why he's half distracted after her now. But the wretched girl insists that she will not marry any one. It all comes of that pauper your uncle Joseph took. We'll see though if her will can't be broken for once." 
               "What does the old man say about it?" 
               "Your father would do as he has always done; let her please herself, and bring disgrace into our house! That she shall never do while I live, never!" Mrs. Atherton exclaimed with stern decision. 
               "You are right there, mother,-all is, stick to it," said Albert. "But what am I to do? Aunt Lottie and her sanctimonious spouse no doubt think me a great scapegrace, and would give me the cold shoulder, I fear." 
               "Go yourself, then, directly to Miss Mowbray,-invent the most plausible story you can, to smooth over the past, and let what you see and hear govern your future course; but remember, 'faint heart never won fair lady.'" 
               "I'll turn saint," exclaimed Albert suddenly. "I believe that's the surest way to gain a lady's favor; and besides, I always thought Miss Mowbray had a liking for pious folks." 
               "Turn what you please," replied his mother, "if you only gain your object." 
               Retreating, and still retreating, its skeleton finger pointing menacingly to the victim thus snatched from its grasp, the shadow vanished from his side, and Albert was left to his own evil counsel. 
               "Now for mock heroics and pious cant," said he, as, a few days after the interview with his mother, he was ushered into the splendid drawing-room at Woodbine Lodge; "it's a pretty desperate game, but I'll e'en do my best to win; gold fish must be caught with cunning bait." 
               "Mr. Atherton! is it possible!" was Miss Mowbray's bray's rather cool salutation to her visitor, as she entered the room. 
               "Perhaps you did not expect to see me again," said he, with well-assumed dejection, "after the painful circumstances attending our last interview; but, Miss Mowbray, yours is not the heart to withhold sympathy from misery like mine. I have suffered,-I am still suffering most intensely." 
               "I am glad to hear you say that," she replied with more cordiality in her tone; "not that I would rejoice in another's unhappiness, but it shows that-" 
               "That I am not the heartless being you thought," he quickly added, as she hesitated. 
               She nodded assent, and he continued:- 
               "No, I am not heartless; whatever my faults, that certainly is not one of them. I have grieved more deeply over poor Agnes' unhappy and fatal delusion than you can imagine, and had I sooner known that she cherished it, I would have died to save her." 
               "Mr. Atherton," said Miss Mowbray, with deep feeling, "this is a subject upon which I cannot converse with you. The grave has covered all the wrongs my poor cousin suffered, and I would not recall them." 
               "Your cousin!" he repeated with surprise. 
               "Yes; have you not heard of the discovery we made after Agnes was buried? She was my cousin, and Aunt Blair is now a beloved inmate of my home." 
               Here was a dilemma! recovering quickly, however, from the dismay this news caused him, he said in his most insinuating manner,- 
                
               "I am really rejoiced to hear this, both because of the happiness it must give you to find such a worthy relative, and the great comfort to Mrs. Blair in having restored to her almost a daughter." 
               "Agnes' place can never be supplied in her mother's heart," said Miss Mowbray; "she was very dear to her." 
               "Agnes was an angel!" exclaimed Albert, and for once his heart responded to his words. "Some time," he added, "I must see Mrs. Blair; I have much to say to her, but not now." 
               "Miss Mowbray," said he, looking at her earnestly, "can you so far forget the past, that I may hope once more to win a place in your confidence and esteem?" 
               This was a bold question for him, and Miss Mowbray did not attempt to conceal her astonishment. 
               "Mind," said he, "I do not ask your confidence at once; all I ask is, that you will give me an opportunity of proving myself worthy of it. I have not lived these months past, in silence and sorrow, to no purpose. A change has come over me. Let me but feel that I can be restored to the companionship of one so good and pure, and you may make my probation as long as you please. Only say that you do not despise me,"-and with well dissembled emotion, he wiped a tear from his eye. 
               What reply Miss Mowbray would have made to this earnest appeal, apparently so sincere and humble, Albert had no means of judging; for at that instant the servant announced two gentlemen, and Mr. Thornton and Richard Morton entered the room. 
                
               Astonishment, not unmingled with contempt, was in the cold greetings they bestowed upon him; but with an assurance which brought a burning blush to Miss Mowbray's cheek, Albert received them with great cordiality, remarking that "the joy of seeing again such friends almost compensated for the loss of his delightful tte--tte with the fair hostess." 
               Mr. Thornton glanced uneasily at Miss Mowbray, as he said this, but her look of mortification and anger reassured him, and he merely replied:- 
               "We should be very sorry to interrupt a tte--tte which was mutually agreeable. Perhaps Miss Mowbray will tell us where we may find Miss Singleton?" 
               "Pray be seated, gentlemen; I assure you you are very welcome," she replied, heartily vexed at the false position in which she was placed. 
               Richard Morton spoke a few words to her in a low tone, and then left the apartment. 
               "He is a noble fellow," said Mr. Thornton as the door closed. 
               "I have rarely seen his equal," Miss Mowbray replied with warmth. "By the way, what has become of that Mr. Brown, who was at your house when we visited you last summer?" 
               "I have heard nothing of him for a long time," said Mr. Thornton. "Brother Joseph wrote us many months since, that the young man had gone to find some clue, if possible, to his parentage." 
               "I imagine that will be a difficult task," Albert remarked, with a sneer. 
                
               "Why so?" asked Miss Mowbray, turning her black eyes full upon him. 
               "Because," he replied, nothing daunted, "what other people failed to discover years ago, is not likely to come to light at this late day. It's very well for him to make a feint of it though." 
               "I thought him a young man of great refinement of mind, as well as elegance of person," said Miss Mowbray, without noticing the ill-natured remark; "perhaps I was more interested in him on your sister's account, Mr. Atherton," she added with a meaning smile. 
               "I do not see what connection my sister could have with your interest in him," said Albert. 
               "They were so much attached to each other," she replied, "and we all loved Nettie so dearly that it was impossible to exclude him from our affections, too." 
               "You were quite mistaken with regard to Nettie's feelings," said Albert; "she is soon to be married." 
               "Married! is it possible! to whom?" were the almost simultaneous exclamations of Mr. Thornton and Miss Mowbray. 
               "A Mr. Selwyn, of New York, an immensely rich and aristocratic gentleman," was Albert's reply. 
               In a moment the whole thing flashed before her; Nettie was to be sacrificed on the shrine of mammon! She could not forget the sweet, blushing confidence the dear girl had reposed in her, and she knew Nettie's heart belonged not to the "rich and aristocratic" suitor. 
               "When do you say the marriage will take place?" she inquired. 
                
               "Perhaps in two, or three months; I do not know precisely when." 
               "Then, Mr. Atherton," cried she eagerly, "I have a favor to ask of you, which is, that you will escort Nettie hither at your earliest convenience. I must have a visit from her before that event." 
               "Aha, my lady!" was his exulting thought; "now I've got a nice hold upon you;"-but his words and manner were calm and courteous, as he rose to leave. "My pleasure," said he, "is so intimately connected with the furtherance of your wishes on this subject, that I shall hasten to obey them at once. Nettie will be but too happy to accept your kind invitation, and I, as a subordinate, thank you for the honor conferred on me. You will see us soon." 
               "One must endure him, for sweet Nettie's sake," Miss Mowbray remarked to Mr. Thornton, when they were alone. 
               "How strangely unlike they are," said he; "but I am really troubled about her rumored marriage. I am confident she loves young Brown, and I am equally confident that he is worthy of her. This must be some of her mother's work." 
               "I have a plan to save Nettie, if such is the case. I love her too well to see her sacrificed," Miss Mowbray replied, just as her friend, with beaming eyes and glowing cheek, came in. 
               "Ah! what a fine thing morning air is, to paint one's cheeks so fresh and rosy," she exclaimed, roguishly pointing to the blushing girl. 
                
               "It is something better than morning air," said Richard Morton, coming forward with a face as joyous as her own; "it is the reflection of her pure and loving heart, that warms my Maggie's cheek. Now that we are all friends here, I must tell you," turning to Mr. Thornton, "that she bids me God speed in my course, with the hope of a bright reward to cheer me in my toils." 
               "You speak in riddles, Mr. Morton," said Miss Mowbray, gazing from one to the other; "to what toils do you refer." 
               "None that are to be dreaded now," he replied, with a glance of proud affection at Miss Singleton; "she will best explain to you, while I return with Mr. Thornton, as I promised his excellent wife. You will see me again soon, though, for I must away to the labor that shall bring me such happiness;" and kissing his fair lady's hand, he departed, with the bright smile of hope on his manly face. 
               "What does this all mean, dear Lucille?" 
               "Isn't he noble-generous, unselfish, Maggie! Ah, his reward shall come sooner than he dreams!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Though varying wishes, hopes and fears, 
                        Fevered the progress of these years, 
                        Yet now, days, weeks, and months, but seem 
                        The recollection of a dream." 
                     
                   
                
               TWILIGHT at Willow Glen-and in the deep recess of a window which overlooked his beautiful domain, the lover husband sat, clasping a small white hand within his own. This had been an hour of retrospection-one of those seasons which come to all, when each moment of the past seems painted in living colors, as the panoramic vision floats swiftly by. They had lived over again the happy days and years of their wedded life, and, encouraged by her willing listener, Charlotte Thornton had dwelt on the scenes of her early life, when blessed with the watchful care and tenderness of loving parents. In accents low and sad she told how death had severed the happy household band, and left her with only the sweet remembrance of a mother's holy life, of which her "golden legacy" was a fitting and beautiful exemplification. Long she lingered over this dear theme, her soft voice scarce breaking the silence lence around them, while he who drank in her words, felt his soul stirred with the memories of his own early years. 
               The quiet calm of the hour, the deepening shadows evening fast threw about them, favored his thoughts. Pressing her hand as his wife's voice ceased, he said, tenderly: "Your life, dearest Lottie, with all its dark spots, has been as unruffled as is ever your own sweet spirit. But with me it has been far otherwise." Here he stopped. 
               In the dim twilight he could not see the eager face Charlotte Thornton raised to his, as she tremblingly awaited the long wished-for revelation. 
               "My days have glided so happily along since you became my loved wife," he added, with a voice as gentle almost as her own, "that the events of my early years seemed like some far-off dream. To-night, however, they come to me with a distinctness that impresses their reality." 
               "I have so longed, yet so feared to ask you of them-of her to whom your youthful love was given." 
               "It was a boyish passion-totally unlike that which drew me to your side, Lottie," he replied, half apologetically, "yet you shall hear all, and then judge for yourself. I should long ago have told you the sad history of my early marriage, had you expressed the desire you have now, but there were so many painful circumstances connected with it. I have avoided all allusion to it even in thought." 
               "I would not have you recall any thing painful, merely to indulge my curiosity," his wife quickly rejoined; "pray dismiss it at once, you have already told me all that it is needful for me to know." 
               "Nay, nay," said he, with a smile, his own peculiar smile, as he drew here within his arms, "I shall begin to think my model wife a very little jealous. No, Lottie dear, it was given you to awaken the first deep, immeasurable love of my heart. But poor Alice was like a beautiful flower, that I, in my youthful fancy, sought to wear in my bosom.-Alas! the flower faded ere its fragrance reached my soul! I was but a college lad-she a Miss at school, when first we met. Her extreme beauty made her an object of great attraction to the students, and I joined the strife for her special favor. My vanity was soon flattered by her preference-upon no other did her eye flash so brightly, her smile beam so sweetly;-then, as the tell-tale blush at my approach betrayed the secret to others, in the pride of my conquest, I thought myself desperately in love. Gay, thoughtless, full of romance, it required but little persuasion to gain her consent to a secret marriage, for she had told me of her humble birth and poverty, and I knew too well my father's prejudices to expect his sanction. Alice confided the secret of our union to a mutual friend, at whose house we found a happy home, till I completed my college course and graduated with its highest honors. Meantime scandal had been busy with our names, and Alice drooped under its poisonous exhalations. Then came the first bitter realization of the misery my blind folly had brought upon the young and beautiful girl. There was but one honorable course for me to pursue, and I hastened at once to my father, resolved to brave his displeasure by announcing to him and the world my marriage. 
               I left Alice with a happy, confident smile on her face, and a joy in her heart, to which it had been a stranger for many months. Never shall I forget how exquisitely lovely she looked, as from her window she watched my departure, waving her hand till I was lost to her sight. Little thought we then that our first parting would be our last. I never saw her again." 
               Melville Thornton ceased, and a warm, expressive pressure of the hand, told him with what deep sympathy his wife listened. 
               "I came home," he resumed, "and found my father prostrated by a paralytic stroke-scarcely able to converse,-his life depending, seemingly, upon the absence of all excitement. Distracted with contending emotions, I watched over him daily and hourly, hoping some safe moment might occur, for the accomplishment of my wishes. 
               "Thus two months passed, when my father's improved state emboldened me to speak of the subject nearest my heart. Surprising joy! he not only forgave me, but invited me to bring his new daughter home at once, that he might see her before he died! Sickness, and the near approach of death, had greatly changed him. I eagerly prepared to obey this welcome request, and the carriage was at the door in which I was to go, and return with my wife, when again his mortal foe returned, and laid my father senseless before me. Leaving him in that state was not to be thought of for a moment; so I dispatched a hurried note to Alice, telling her what had occurred, and begging her to return immediately with the messenger to the home henceforth her own. The next day he brought-not Alice, but a letter from the lady where we had lived, saying, that Alice left there a few weeks before, in an unhappy state of mind, to return, as she said, to her parents-that she had heard nothing from her since, but advised me to lose no time in seeking her. 
               "My father still lay in an unconscious state, liable, as the physician said, to terminate fatally at any moment. I therefore again sent forth our trusty servant to the place where her parents resided, a long, weary journey from here, and again he returned, after more than a week's absence, unsuccessful. 'There was no such family living there now,' was all the information he could elicit; and between intense anxiety for my wife, and distress for my father, who was rapidly failing, I passed several wretched days. At last the summons came, and breathing a dying blessing upon his only child, my father passed from earth. Over the grave of the dead I shed a few bitter tears, ere I hastened forth to seek Alice. I found her father's humble abode, but its doors were closed, and its inmates gone,-gone, none could tell where. Alas! the sad tale was soon told. My frequent letters to Alice had been intercepted, and the poor girl, stung to madness by my apparent desertion, and the vile tongue of slander, to which even her friends began to listen, fled to her father's roof for protection. The large remittances, enclosed in my letters, had of course never reached her, and destitution was added to her other miseries. Late one evening she reached the home of her childhood;-with one mighty effort she threw open the door, and sank in deathlike exhaustion at the feet of her horror-stricken parents. Through all that long night, sounds of mourning and distress were heard in the lowly dwelling, and the morning sun shone upon a fearful scene. Alice's troubles were all stilled in the cold sleep which knows no waking; while the frosts of age had, in those few hours, fallen on the heads of the smitten parents. Like a tiny bud unfolding in an icy clime, a new-born babe lay in the almost unconscious grasp of its grandmother. With what different anticipations had Alice looked forward to this event! 
               "Bowed with grief and shame, for no moment of reason had been granted to Alice for explanation, the broken-hearted parents left the scene of their humiliation. They could not remain where every thing reminded them so vividly of their lost idol, and so they became strangers and pilgrims on earth." 
               "What became of the child?" asked Charlotte Thornton, as her husband paused. 
               "He soon sank to an early grave, and was buried with his grandmother; but where, I could never ascertain." 
               "And her father?" 
               "Became a harmless maniac, wandering where he chose. I have told you a long, sad story, Lottie," Melville Thornton added, kissing the forehead which rested on his breast; "can you wonder that I carried a heavy, troubled heart, abroad with me?" 
               "My only wonder is that you were supported under such terrible afflictions," she replied. 
               "You must remember, Lottie, that I was but a youth then, with no such maturity of feeling as I have now." 
               "True, but you had less to comfort you." 
               "There you are right, wife. I had not then learned the infinite source of strength and hope. That was reserved for my lonely wanderings, when earth seemed full of happiness for all but me. Out of my desolation I cried, and straightway my soul was filled with peace and joy. Yet there were moments, nay, hours, when again darkness and despair would hold dominion over me. It was not till the Lord vouchsafed to me his last, best gift to man, a blessed wife, that the shadow was for ever lifted from my heart. You, Lottie, was the precious, chosen vessel of mercy to me." 
               "Pray God I may ever be such," was her earnest rejoinder. 
               "And now, dearest," he continued, "let the gloomy past lie buried where for more than twenty years it has lain. It was always my intention to confide to you the sad tale I have now done, but all future allusions to it will be painful." 
               "It shall be as you wish," she replied; "yet tell me, did you ever know who it was that intercepted your letters and money?" 
               "Yes; I did not rest till I had ferreted out the whole matter-it was one of the students who had persecuted Alice with his attentions, and even had the audacity to renew them in my absence." 
               "What was done with the villain? surely no punishment could be too great for him!" exclaimed Charlotte Thornton, shuddering. 
               "He had been so adroit, that nothing could be proved against him," her husband replied. "His fearful account yet stands for a terrible reckoning before the great Judge of all." 
               "Have you ever seen him since?" 
               "Yes, he has even had the boldness to come here, and beg for my co-operation in forcing his son to marry an heiress." 
               "You surely cannot mean Judge Morton!" cried Mrs. Thornton, springing up excitedly. 
               "Sit down, Lottie dear; your own pure instinct did not err, when you shrunk with such repugnance from that man. It was he." 
               "Yet you did not turn him from your door! how could you treat him otherwise?" 
               Mr. Thornton silently pointed towards the mantel. "Your creed, Lottie," said he, with a quiet smile. 
               "I confess I do not see the application in this case," she replied. 
               "As I hope for leniency and mercy from Him against whom I have sinned all my life," said Mr. Thornton, with deep emotion, "so must I extend the same to my brother, how much soever he may have wronged me." 
               "Right, as you always are!" his wife exclaimed, "yet such perfection is not easily attained." 
               "Not till all are made perfect in Christ," was his reply. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Honesty, oven by itself, though making many adversaries- 
                           Whom prudence might have set aside, or charity have softened, 
                           Evermore will prosper at the last, and gain a man great honor." 
                        
                      
                     TUPPER. 
                   
                
               "QUITE a pretty little affair, truly," exclaimed Mr. Ashton, one of the most talented and influential lawyers in the city of New York, as he refolded a letter he had just been reading; "my friend Thornton hasn't lost all his romance yet, if he is a married man," he continued, with a shrug: "I declare he has quite stirred up my sluggish, bachelor blood with this love affair. But he must have more faith in the potent charm than I, if he believes it will last long. Probably young Morton does not know the value of the property he has sacrificed for this poor girl. As to love, I have yet to learn that it is any thing but a foolish delusion. But for this young man, I will do all Thornton wishes-nay more-I will study his character, and if I find truth and sincerity there, he shall not long wait for fortune's smile." Here his meditations were suddenly broken off by the entrance of a young man, who, he at once rightly conjectured, was the very one in question. 
               "Have I the honor of addressing Mr. Ashton?" he asked in a rich, clear voice. 
               "Whatever honor there may be in that is certainly yours; my name is Ashton," the lawyer replied with a pleasant smile; "will you be seated, sir?" 
               "I am a stranger here, having arrived only this morning, and I bring a letter of introduction to you from an old friend of yours, I believe," said the other, handing him an unsealed note. 
               "Ah! Thornton. Yes, he was a college friend of mine, though a few years my senior. Well, Mr. Morton, what can I do for you?" 
               Richard Morton looked up with a half serious, half comical face; "Perhaps you can tell better than I, sir," said he; "I have come here without money, reputation, or friends, all of which I am determined to gain." 
               "That is right! set your mark high, my young friend," said the lawyer approvingly; "but with what weapons will you besiege the triple fortress?" 
               "Helmet, sword, and shield, shall bear but one device-truth," Richard replied, in the same strain. 
               "Good! but through what medium will you wield the mighty power?" 
               "The same that has already been ennobled by your example, sir,-the law." 
               "Ah! then you belong to our profession," Mr. Ashton exclaimed, pleased with the delicate compliment: "Have you been in practice?" 
                
               "I have not; but my preparation should be sufficiently thorough to justify my entering it at once; I have read very extensively." 
               "With whom?" 
               "Judge Morton, of Boston." 
               "A relative of yours, perhaps?" 
               "He is my father, sir; but circumstances of a painful nature have separated us." 
               "Excuse me, excuse me," quickly interposed the lawyer; "I have no business to be so inquisitive." 
               "It requires no apology, sir; it is proper that you should know something of one who seeks your advice." 
               A short silence ensued; Mr. Ashton was devising the best way to introduce a plan he had already formed, and Richard Morton was still too anxious for the future to heed the passing moments. There was the same indomitable spirit of energy and perseverance in the two thus brought together. Lewis Ashton had, in early life, been thrown upon the world in no very favorable position to win its smiles; but by unremitting effort, he had gained a high place among those who would have scorned his lowly youth. With an elegant exterior, a gifted mind, and abundant wealth, he now stood upon the pinnacle of popularity in the most aristocratic circles. 
               But his keen eye had glanced beneath the polished surface, and his soul sickened at the view. Little wonder, then, skeptic as he had become in all matters pertaining to the heart, that he looked upon Richard Morton's sacrifice, as the effect of a mere passing fancy. He did so regard it, notwithstanding Mr. Thornton's warm eulogium upon the young man's constancy and devotion. 
               There was something in Richard's face and manner that won his friendship at once, and he inwardly resolved to watch over him as an elder brother. 
               Upon this he was musing, during the momentary silence that followed Richard's remark. 
               "Do not think me unsocial," said he, resuming the conversation with a smile; "I have been trying to devise the best way to serve you." 
               "You are certainly very kind to bestow so much thought upon a stranger," Richard replied; "I have no right to infringe thus upon your valuable time." 
               "It is no infringement; it is a pleasure," said he; "and besides, like all the rest of the world, I am selfish sometimes; and the plan I have to propose is strongly impregnated with that cardinal virtue." 
               "Ah! and what may it be, sir?" 
               "Simply that you will relieve me of some of my labors, which are really becoming onerous." 
               "I would that I were capable of doing it," Richard replied with a gratified smile. 
               "Of that I must be the judge," said Mr. Ashton; "I have been looking for just such a person for some time, and now that I have found one, I must hasten to secure him. So, if agreeable to you, we will make our arrangements without delay, to transfer a part of my burden to your shoulders. What do you say to that?" 
                
               "I am so overwhelmed with surprise and joy that I can scarce find words to thank you," Richard replied. 
               "Meet me here, then, at three o'clock this afternoon;" quoth the lawyer; "and in the mean time have your things removed to my apartments; here are the directions." 
               Thus Richard found himself launched at once into the full tide of business, under the favorable auspices of his new friend. Little wot he whose gentle hand had thus smoothed the way before him! 
               "Morton," said Mr. Ashton one morning, soon after the former had been installed in his office, "here are some important papers to be drawn up to-day; strange, that a good sensible fellow like Selwyn should be caught at last in Cupid's snare." 
               "Does it argue a want of goodness, or sense, to be thus caught?" Richard asked, laughingly. 
               "Not in your case, I'll grant at once, to save controversy," replied the other; "but here's a man actually older than myself, so bewitched by the smiles of a pretty girl, that he really believes himself in love! Faugh! what fools men make of themselves sometimes!" 
               "Because they chance to fall in love?" queried Richard. 
               "I don't mean that exactly; that is, if there is any such thing as real, genuine love, which I much doubt; but a man in Selwyn's position ought to know, that it must be his millions, not himself, that would tempt a beautiful young girl like Miss Atherton to marry him." 
                
               "Miss Atherton! where is she from?" Richard exclaimed. 
               "From Clifton, Massachusetts; her father is a country lawyer, and having lost most of his property through a spendthrift son, they take this measure, I suppose, to replenish their coffers." 
               "You must be mistaken, Mr. Ashton; it cannot be Nettie Atherton!" said Richard earnestly; "she would not marry one she did not love, if he were made of gold." 
               "There again comes up the mooted question; I do not believe people marry for love. But you can refer to the papers to see whether it is really the Nettie Atherton you know." 
               "It must be the same," said Richard, looking over the document; "but I do not believe this is done with her consent." 
               "Ah, my dear fellow! you have something to learn yet. Do you think any young girl in her senses would turn away from the dazzling prospect of becoming Mr. Selwyn's wife-the leader of the ton?" 
               "I think Nettie Atherton would," Richard simply answered. 
               "She must be a paragon then," said Mr. Ashton; "but you see she has not refused; here is her marriage settlement to be drawn up; and a most magnificent one it is,-characteristic of Selwyn's generous nature." 
               "Notwithstanding this, I am confident that Nettie will never marry Mr. Selwyn, unless forced to do it. She loves, and is already engaged to another. If you knew her, you would say the same, Mr. Ashton." 
                
               "Ha, ha, ha! what would Selwyn say to hear you talk! forced to marry him, when the ladies are all crazy after him! But here he comes, and I must crack this joke upon him-it is too good to be lost." 
               "Nay, Mr. Ashton, I beg"-Richard began imploringly; but ere he could say more, the subject of their conversation entered the office. With a smile whose genial warmth reached Richard's heart, Mr. Selwyn entered at once upon his business with Mr. Ashton. 
               "I have called," said he, "to make a suggestion in reference to those papers I left with you. Upon further reflection I have concluded to double the amount mentioned there-it will secure more independence of feeling, you know." 
               "Why, Selwyn!" exclaimed Mr. Ashton, slapping him familiarly on the shoulder; "has the fellow gone clean mad? you'll make your wife too independent of you." 
               "So far as pecuniary matters are concerned, I would have her entirely so," Mr. Selwyn replied, while something like a blush stole softly to his cheek. 
               "Well, do you know I was just saying to my young friend here, that men will make fools of themselves sometimes; and as your confidential friend and adviser, I must say that I think you are very near making one of yourself now." Mr. Ashton said this in a half-laughing, half-vexed sort of a way. 
               "Perhaps I am," said Mr. Selwyn, gayly; "but 'when ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise,' you know." 
               "Some pretend to say that you are wooing an unwilling bride, Selwyn; how is that?" Mr. Ashton asked, jocosely. 
               "Who said that!" cried Mr. Selwyn, springing up, while his face began to pale. 
               "Why, man alive! what's the matter?" exclaimed the lawyer; "sit down; no one said it in earnest. I was only repeating a joke we were enjoying when you came in." 
               "Rather a serious joke for me though, if there should prove to be any truth in it;" Mr. Selwyn remarked, more to himself than his hearers. 
               "You do not mean to intimate that there may be any truth in it!" Mr. Ashton exclaimed, with astonishment. 
               Mr. Selwyn made no reply, but glanced uneasily towards young Morton. 
               "You can speak freely in his presence," said Mr. Ashton, replying to the look; "I will answer for his discretion. And, besides, he is a friend of Miss Atherton. Nay, Morton, stay;" he added, as the latter made a movement to leave; "Mr. Selwyn will thank you for it." 
               "I would not intrude upon private conversation of this nature," said Richard, still endeavoring to go, but Mr. Selwyn made a motion for him to sit down, and he therefore remained. 
               "Did I understand Mr. Ashton that you are acquainted quainted with Miss Atherton?" Mr. Selwyn asked, with interest. 
               "Personally, I do not know her as well as by reputation; yet I have met her several times," Richard replied. 
               "Perhaps it was with you, then, that Mr. Ashton was enjoying the joke he mentioned just now?" 
               "Yes; young Morton was giving me some of his sentimental ideas about love and marriage," said Mr. Ashton, laughing, "and that led to the remark-but we meant no offence to you, assuredly." 
               "Certainly not; I do not so receive it," Mr. Selwyn replied, pleasantly; "but," he added, in a low and trembling voice, "I should like Mr. Morton to tell me why he made that remark." 
               "I will do it, sir," said Richard, frankly; "I know that no mercenary consideration could influence Nettie Atherton to marry one she does not love, and"-he hesitated. 
               "Go on-go on;" cried Mr. Selwyn, "do not fear to say what you think." 
               "Well then, sir, I must say that I believe her heart belongs to another than yourself-one whom she has loved from childhood, and if she marries other than him, it will be against her will;" Richard stopped suddenly, as a frightful paleness overspread Mr. Selwyn's face. 
               "Young man!" he whispered, hoarsely, "do you know whereof you affirm? Answer truly, as in the sight of God." 
                
               "I would not answer you otherwise, though Heaven knows I grieve to wound you thus-but better so, than that Nettie should be sacrificed; she will tell you, sir, that what I have said, is true," Richard replied, sadly. 
               Mr. Selwyn's head had dropped upon his hands while Richard spoke, but as he ceased, he sprang up, bursting forth with all the passionate vehemence of his nature. 
               "I do not believe one word of it; it's all a lie-a lie, sir-just because you want her yourself. But she's mine-Nettie's mine! and no power on earth shall take her from me." 
               Mr. Ashton was thunderstruck at this violent ebullition of feeling, but Richard Morton calmly replied,- 
               "Your words, Mr. Selwyn, convince me that you love Nettie Atherton; therefore, I excuse your reference to myself. Believe me, sir, I pity you; from my heart I grieve for you-but she whom you love is suffering even more intensely than yourself. Have you no sympathy for her?" 
               He had touched the right chord. 
               "How know you that Nettie is suffering?" exclaimed Mr. Selwyn, recovering himself somewhat; "and by what strange power do you move me thus? Forgive my hasty words." 
               "They were forgiven as soon as uttered," said Richard, grasping his extended hand; "the power which stirs your spirit is not from me; honor and love are struggling there, and I have not a doubt of the issue of the noble strife." 
               "Tell me more of this matter," said Mr. Selwyn, throwing himself, weak and trembling, into a chair; "some things have seemed strange to me, but I did not suspect what you have told me." 
               Then Richard repeated to him all he knew of Nettie's early love for her uncle's adopted son-of her mother's cruel persecution; and, finally, of the imprisonment she had endured, to bring her to a forced consent to a marriage with him. 
               Contending emotions raged within Mr. Selwyn's breast, as he listened to the recital. The deep and bitter disappointment which had filled his heart at first, gradually gave place to a yearning sympathy for the lovely, oppressed girl, and when Richard concluded, he grasped his hand warmly, exclaiming, 
               "You have done your duty nobly, sir. God help me to do mine, also,"-and with these words he left them. 
               "Pshaw! what a commotion about one girl! Selwyn is beside himself," exclaimed Mr. Ashton, contemptuously, as the door closed. 
               "He loves her, sir," Richard simply answered. 
               "Love!" repeated he, in the same tone; "what is it, but a will-o'-the-wisp, leading men blindly on to their own destruction; a dream, ending ever in a bitter awakening; a shadow none but fools pursue!" 
               "And yet," added Richard, smiling, "were I to wish you the highest earthly joy, it would be that that dream might be yours, that shadow ever before you, and that ignis fatuus lead you on to the blissful destruction of such false views." 
               "Heaven defend me!" cried Mr. Ashton, lifting his hands in pretended horror. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "A villain, when he most seems kind, 
                        Is most to be suspected." 
                     
                   
                
               "LOR, missus! I s'pects dis nig can't bear jes nuffin 't all." 
               "What's the trouble now, Becky?" Mrs. Blair asked, looking up quietly from her work. 
               "Dat ar gemman-lor, he no gemman more'n Pete, dar!" 
               "You mean Mr. Atherton, I suppose," said Mrs. Blair; "it seems to me you don't like him very well, Becky." 
               "Like him! neber, missus!" exclaimed Becky, rolling up her great white eyeballs, "dis nig 'member young missus too well for dat." 
               "I shall always look upon him as the destroyer of my Agnes," said Mrs. Blair, wiping a tear from her eye; "but we must try to bear with him, Becky, for his sister's sake; she is a sweet girl." 
               "Dat's jes it, missus! 'pears like she's dyin' 'way jes young missus was, and he a pushin' her along," exclaimed Becky, with an impressive gesture of her black hand. 
               "Why, how's that?" Mrs. Blair asked, curious to know what impression she had got. 
               "'Pears like she's got some trouble," said Becky, "and den she goes down to de big tree dar, and cries, and cries; she s'pects de Lord 'll hear her, I s'pose; and den de fust thing she knows,. 'long comes her brudder and says, 'what you making such a fuss for? you know what you've got to do, and all this crying won't help you.' Den-O lor! missus, I see her do it dis very morning-she throwed her pretty arms 'round him and said, 'save me, Oh, save me, Albert, and I will always love, always serve you;' dem's her words, missus; and den what you tink dat mis'ble feller said? hi! dis nig like to tear his eyes out! 'make that rich girl marry me, and then I'll save you,' said he; and den he larfed jes like a nigger! Oh, de Lord hisself couldn't tell dey was brudder and sister." 
               "Was that what brought you here in such a passion just now, Becky?" Mrs. Blair asked as soon as she had ceased laughing at her story, told with a ludicrous mixture of pathos and indignation. 
               "Yes, missus! dis nig can't stan' by and see de 'spectability of dis family 'suited," Becky proudly exclaimed. 
               "That is right," said Mrs. Blair; "but the young ladies both love Nettie so well, they pass over these things in her brother. She will have to go away when he does; so we must get along as well as we can with him, for the sake of keeping her a while longer. But, Becky, be careful not to repeat any of these things to the servants." 
               "Dis nig knows what she's 'bout," said Becky, who perfectly understood her privileged position in the family. 
               Such was the universal feeling at Woodbine Lodge towards Albert Atherton;-he must be borne for Nettie's sake. Sweet Nettie! Miss Mowbray thought, as she gazed upon her sad and drooping, yet almost ethereal loveliness, that she would suffer any annoyance, to retain the unhappy girl within her own warm, loving sympathies. And Nettie,-how gratefully her heart expanded in this genial home. Here she was understood and appreciated; and here, too, she would be saved, if possible, from the terrible sacrifice to which her mother had doomed her. So they had assured her; and her pure faith (save when some paroxysm of grief, such as Becky had that morning witnessed, overmastered her) rested on their promises with shadowy hope. 
               At Willow Glen, too, where an earlier love claimed its treasure, Nettie was folded to hearts that throbbed responsively to her grief. Again, as of old, her head was drawn upon Aunt Lottie's breast, and words of soothing love fell upon the troubled heart beneath. It was her native atmosphere; and with each breath Nettie inhaled strength from those loving souls. What sacrifice could they deem too great, thus to minister to the precious one! So Albert Atherton's presence became even tolerable for his sister's sake. 
                
               He had not been slow to follow up the advantage he fancied he had gained in his first call at Woodbine Lodge; but could he have read the motives which induced their kindness to him, his step had been less lofty, his manner less triumphant, among those who understood him so well. Thus weeks sped on; weeks, fraught with quiet happiness to Nettie, freed from the persecution of her unnatural mother, and surrounded by love-weeks, in which every gracious word and look was interpreted by Albert as favoring his suit, till he came to believe in the certainty of his success-weeks, on whose daily wings little messengers of love came to the heart, and brightened the eye and cheek of Richard Morton's betrothed-weeks, which at length brought the announcement of visitors; none other than Richard, his friend Mr. Ashton, and Nettie's lover, Mr. Selwyn. Nettie would not have flown so like a frightened bird to her Aunt Lottie's arms, had she known that in the lover she would find also a deliverer.
                
               "Woodbine Lodge! home of the Graces! Cupid's chosen haunt!" gayly apostrophized Mr. Ashton, as the three gentlemen approached Miss Mowbray's beautiful residence;-"how shall I best propitiate the fickle god?" 
               "By acknowledging his power," Richard replied, laughing. 
               "What if I have never felt it-do not even believe in its existence? you two lovesick swains to the contrary notwithstanding," rejoined the lawyer. 
               "Look out for yourself, then-his shafts may reach you when least expected."-Even as Richard spoke, the little sly archer had sped his arrow from a pair of black eyes watching their approach. 
               "Heavens! what queenly face is that?" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Ashton, as he caught the glance. 
               "Where?" eagerly cried Richard, who had been scanning every window; "oh, that is Miss Mowbray, the heiress." 
               "I detest heiresses," was the lawyer's short response, as they alighted at the door. He did not see the flashing of those black eyes, as his remark was overheard, or heed the mischievous smile lurking round the lips which bade him welcome; but he did see and feel that before him stood the most beautiful woman his eye had ever rested upon. 
               Mr. Selwyn paced the drawing-room at Willow Glen with agitated steps. He had come to hear from Nettie's own lips the truth of what Richard had told him. Her mother's assurance of the young girl's love for him had led to his proposal and acceptance; though, strange to say, he now awaited the first tte--tte with his affianced. 
               "Strange," said he to himself, as he thought of the past, "that I should have given my heart so wholly to her without reading the response of her own-but she was very lovely. Perhaps, after all, young Morton is mistaken. I cannot give her up, no, never," he murmured, wiping his eye. 
               Suddenly a glittering object attracted his attention, and for a moment he stood transfixed before it;-"A mother's legacy," he repeated, at length, "just what my own mother would say to me now. It is enough. I will receive it as from her, and pledge my heart to the test." 
               Fearful and hesitating, Nettie entered the room. 
               "My poor, trembling dove," Mr. Selwyn exclaimed, as he took her cold hand in his, while he gazed affectionately into her pale, sad face, "I must bring back the roses to these cheeks." 
               "I have been quite ill," Nettie stammered. 
               "Yes, dear child, I know you have," said he, tenderly. "Mr. Morton has told me all. 
               "All!" she gasped, looking up eagerly to his face for the first time. 
               "Yes, all," he repeated, smiling sadly; "and think you, Nettie, I would bind your fresh young life to my years, if your heart were not mine?" 
               "Oh, sir," she began in a broken voice, "I would have told you before, but-but-" 
               "I understand, my sweet girl," said he, relieving her embarrassment, "you have been governed by another's will. But now that your words have destroyed the little lingering hope in my breast, I pray you, receive me as a friend, Nettie, a friend such as you need, and in whom you may confide." 
               "Oh, I thank you, I bless you for that, sir," cried Nettie, quickly laying her hand into the one he extended towards her; "I can love you dearly as such a friend; but my mother!-what will she say?" 
               "Never mind her now, dear child; we will talk of that when I have heard from your own lips what young Morton partly told me." 
               Melville Thornton was astonished! absolutely and unqualifiedly astonished, when, an hour later, he came upon the lovers unawares, to find Nettie chatting gayly; the old look of joy returned to her eyes; the smiling blushes to her cheeks; and Mr. Selwyn, unwelcome lover as he supposed him to be, listening to her with quiet satisfaction. 
               "I've changed my mind about him," was her very demure reply to all their inquiries; and so they puzzled more and more, that the disconsolate maiden should suddenly have become reconciled to her fate. Ah! Nettie kept well her secret; for the noble plan Mr. Selwyn proposed to her required it. So they two alone knew whither they were tending. 
               "Can I have a few moments' private conversation with you this evening, Miss Mowbray?" One would have thought it was a queen he addressed, so respectfully did Albert Atherton prefer his request. 
               "Certainly, Mr. Atherton, if you wish." 
               Such was the cause which brought these two persons together in Miss Mowbray's boudoir one evening. 
               "We go to-morrow," Albert began in a voice he intended should be tremulous; "but I cannot leave this place, where I have found the only true happiness I ever knew, till I have made a confession by which I may for ever lose your esteem;" he paused, looking towards her for some sign of encouragement; but, receiving none, he continued: "I need not refer to those past scenes with which you are already familiar, and which, standing alone, might condemn me; but I ask you to look with compassion on the sufferings I have since endured-the long months spent in penitence and humility; and say if aught in that past still remains in your heart against me." 
               "I am not your judge, Mr. Atherton," was Miss Mowbray's only reply, as he waited for ner words. 
               "But you are my judge,-my arbitress," he eagerly exclaimed; "for upon one word of yours hangs the happiness or misery of my future life. Say, then, oh, say that I am not indifferent to you; that the heart so devotedly yours may at last find its home in your breast. Prove me, Miss Mowbray, prove my love as you will; but give me some hope, some assurance, that you will be mine at last! my bride! my wife!" 
               "Leave this strain; I cannot listen to it a moment longer," said Miss Mowbray indignantly; "this house, at least, where dwells the mother of Agnes, should be sacred from your perjured vows; your bride is in her grave, where you placed her-go, prepare to join her there." 
               When Albert looked up bewildered, he was alone; yet not alone; for there again was the cold shadow creeping around him-its arms closer and closer enfolding him in its dark embrace. Out beneath the midnight sky it led him; and on, on through unknown paths still the weird figure bore him along, till nature could endure the struggle no longer, and he fell senseless to the earth. There, crouching over his pros trate form, still brooded the unceasing watcher for its prey. 
               Morning dawned, and with it, Nettie, bright and joyous, prepared to accompany Mr. Selwyn, no longer the dreaded lover, to her home-that home which for her had but one joy-her father's smile. 
               "What a strange, unaccountable being you are," whispered Miss Mowbray, imprinting a parting kiss on her glowing cheek; "one would think you had forgotten the absent." 
               "He will find I have not forgotten him," Nettie proudly answered, as she gave her hand to Mr. Selwyn, and leaped lightly into the carriage which bore them away. 
               "What does it all mean?" was as plainly written on the faces of those that watched their departure, as it was spoken by Miss Singleton. 
               "What do you refer to?" said Mr. Ashton; "I do not see any thing very strange about them." 
               "Has not Richard told you," asked Miss Singleton, "that Nettie was ready to die rather than marry this Mr. Selwyn, or any other, except the one to whom she was engaged, and yet here she goes off with him as happy as you please!" 
               "What is there remarkable about that?" he replied, laughing; "does it follow that she is going to marry him, because she accepts his escort home, or seems so artlessly happy with him?" 
               "No, not that exactly," Miss Singleton hesitated, "but she so dreaded to see him, and now he seems to hold some charm over her." 
                
               "It is the charm of a noble heart," said Mr. Ashton; "Selwyn would never wed an unwilling bride." 
               "Still I feel uneasy about her," whispered Miss Singleton in her lover's ear, as they returned to the parlor. 
               "You need not," he replied in the same tone; "I have told him the whole story." 
               "About Lonny and all?" 
               "Yes, every thing." 
               "Then she is safe?" 
               "Yes, safe in his confidence and honor, I firmly believe; but come, my little questioner, let us walk in the garden now. I have some things to say before I leave, and to-morrow I shall be far away." 
               Mr. Ashton caught the last words-but what meant the sudden pain, the choking sensation they caused him; why did he involuntarily turn to where Miss Mowbray stood looking from the window in a meditative mood? why did he draw nearer and gaze upon that face which had been a beautiful study to him? Ah! why indeed! when love was "nothing but a foolish delusion," and "heiresses detestable!" 
               "Are you really going so soon?" Miss Mowbray quietly remarked, as the lovers left them alone. 
               "We so purposed when we left New York," he replied; "but I little dreamed with what reluctance I should return thither." 
               If Miss Mowbray felt any surprise she did not manifest it. "Let us then hope," said she, "that you will again favor Woodbine Lodge with a visit." 
                
               "May I flatter myself that such a visit would be agreeable to you?" he asked in a low voice, while every feature betrayed his earnestness. 
               Now the hot blood rushed to her face. "Perhaps," said she-and her voice trembled as she spoke, "perhaps you would not ask that question, did you know who I am." 
               "Who you are?" he repeated with amazement. 
               "Hush! I may not tell you now; she cried, strangely agitated; "but I cannot deceive you: I am not what I seem,"-and bursting into tears, she left his astonished presence. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "There is no future pang 
                        Can deal that justice on the self-condemned; 
                        He deals on his own soul." 
                     
                   
                
               NEVER was truer, deeper joy felt, than that with which Mark Atherton clasped his precious child to his heart, as he saw from the light on her beautiful face, that the cloud had passed from her. He had never known, for Nettie had uttered no complaint, the full extent of his wife's domestic tyranny, or the extreme measures to which she had resorted to coerce the poor girl's will; but he had seen the sweet face grow daily more pale and sad, and he knew from bitter experience how futile would be all attempts to move the mother's heart to compassion. For himself he had ceased to care for the violent and abusive language with which every effort to enforce his authority had been met by his wife; but he had vowed in his heart that Nettie should not marry, save as her heart dictated, and this vow his wife had laughed to scorn. 
               Her extreme satisfaction was, therefore, even greater than the father's joy, when Nettie returned, smiling as of old, and leaning confidently on the arm of Mrs. Atherton's choice-Mr. Selwyn. 
               "There, Mr. Atherton!" was her exulting remark the first time they were alone after Nettie's return; "you see I had the child's happiness more at heart than you! If it hadn't been for my penetration and perseverance, she would have been puling and pining about that beggar yet." 
               "Nettie does certainly seem happier," said he, "and that is all I care for; as for that beggar, as you call him, he was a noble fellow, and Nettie should have had him, if she chose." 
               "Nettie never should have had him! She should die first!" exclaimed Mrs. Atherton with vehemence. 
               "Well, well," said her husband, "it is too late to quarrel about that; if Nettie is satisfied, I am." 
               "That is all very pretty to say now," she replied tauntingly; "after I have fought such a battle to bring the girl to her senses." 
               "She liked to have been brought to her grave!" he answered. 
               "Better death than disgrace," was her reply. 
               "Say you so?" he cried sharply; "then let me charge you to look well to the son you have trained to despise his father. Is there no disgrace in that?" 
               "My son despises, as I do, the mean, grovelling spirit that sees nobility in beggar's rags and filth," Mrs. Atherton replied contemptuously. 
               "But he does not despise what should bring a blush to your cheek," Mr. Atherton added with feeling-"the life of a drunkard and debauchee." 
               "Very kind words for a father to utter concerning his only son," sneered Mrs. Atherton; "but let me tell you, sir, that with all Albert's faults, he will yet honor a name that I consider his only disgrace." 
               "God grant it may be so," said Mr. Atherton, "for he is still my son, though strangely alienated from his father's heart." 
               "It is rather late for you to speak of that, after your abuse of him," Mrs. Atherton coolly replied. 
               "I do not abuse him: I only speak of what it grieves me to know, of his habits and life," Mr. Atherton said mildly. 
               "They are nothing more than young men of spirit are accustomed to," replied his wife. "I would not have him tamely mewed up to his business like Richard Morton." 
               "Let me in, I say! let me in," cried a voice from out the midnight darkness, which Mrs. Atherton but too well recognized, as she sprang hastily from her bed and prepared to obey the summons. 
               "I hope he will not wake," said she to herself, glancing at her sleeping husband, "for we should only have another lecture about Albert's profligacy-I wonder what has brought him here now; I thought he was at Woodbine Lodge,-perhaps he is the bearer of good news," she thought, as gliding down stairs she quietly unfastened the door. 
               "Good heavens! Albert, what is the matter!" she exclaimed with affright, as, pale and haggard, he staggered before her into the family sitting-room. 
               "Shut up your head and come in here," said he, "I've got something to say to you"-then carefully bolting the door he threw himself on the sofa, and burst into a low, maniacal laugh. 
               "My child! what does this mean!" she cried, trembling violently as she approached him. 
               "It means this," said he, springing up and drawing a loaded pistol from his breast-"nay, stay where you are," he added, as she recoiled towards the door,-"stay where you are, or I'll blow my brains out this minute." 
               Shaking in every fibre, with a face as white as his own, the mother sank into a chair before her son. 
               "Now hear me," said he, his voice hoarse with terrible excitement: "for forty-eight hours I have neither ate, drank, nor slept-all the horrors of the damned are upon me; twice they have dragged me to their burning, yawning pit, but I escaped them; yes, I escaped them,"-he laughed again that dreadful laugh:-"because I wanted to come home and see you-I wanted to curse you once before I died-yes, woman," he added, with a terrible oath: "it is all your own work-you have made me what I am-you killed all there was good in me-you crushed my love for Agnes, who might have raised me to her own purity-you maddened my brain with taunts, when I would have repented, and sent me forth on a fool's errand, to be scorned and trod upon. You have made me a murderer derer; a vile, wretched thing, fit only for the infernal regions to which I hasten; and why should I not curse you-curse you for giving me birth-for implanting your own dark nature within me-for bringing me at last to this terrible deed"-he pointed significantly to the weapon in his hand. 
               Paralyzed with horror, the mother gazed upon her son;-twice, thrice she essayed to speak, but the words froze on her lips. Like a marble statue seemed her rigid, motionless form; but each word he uttered burned with living fire into her soul. 
               "Speak," he uttered, and his voice had now the low, calm note of despair; "or, if you have naught to say, listen yet to me. I go to the place for which your false teachings have prepared me;-already the powers of darkness are clutching their prey. I would not see another sun; for my life is accursed. But go, unhappy woman, save that pure being I cannot call sister; give her to him she loves-he cannot be as low as I-if you would hope for one gleam of mercy to your soul. As for me," he continued, raising the pistol to his breast, "this is all that can silence remorse." 
               With an unearthly shriek which resounded through the house, the mother's tongue was loosened as she sprang to check the fatal deed. Alas, too late! with that piercing sound, came also to the ears of the awakened sleepers, in the deep midnight silence, the shrill report of death's quick messenger. 
               Together they found them,-the mother's outstretched arms still clasping the lifeless form of her son, while from his breast oozed a dark stream, crimsoning her garments with a fearful hue. Not a word-not a groan-escaped her lips, as they bore her to her room. For long days and nights in that deathlike swoon she lay,-her hair whitening,-her brow wrinkling, as though ages were passing over her head. Retribution, righteous though terrible, had overtaken her at last; and she lay like a shattered wreck upon its surging billows. 
               When twilight deepened into evening, and the busy world had ceased its labors, forth from that proud mansion they bore the body of him who had ruthlessly rushed into the presence of his Maker. No pall, save Heaven's dark, glittering canopy-no weepers, for tearful founts were frozen-no train of friendly, sympathizing hearts to pay their last respectful tribute. Save the father's trembling, tottering steps,-the sister's mute, pale presence-unwept, unloved, unhonored, he went to his lone burial. Silently they laid him in his narrow bed; for who could there breathe the hope of joyful resurrection-who speak in that presence of the blessedness of the pure in heart! 
               From her deep trance the mother at last awoke, fearful sounds still ringing in her ears, and searing her brain. As from some frightful dream she awoke, her eyes glaring wildly around, her lips muttering incoherent words. 
               "Mother," said a gentle voice beside her, while a soft hand smoothed her burning brow, "do you feel better now?" 
                
               Mrs. Atherton looked earnestly into the lovely face bent over her. "Nettie," said she, "is that you? Where am I? It seems as if something terrible had happened." 
               "You are ill, dear mother," replied the sweet girl; "try and sleep again-it will quiet your nerves." 
               A sudden pang shot through the mother's heart,-memory was fast awaking from its lethargy-"tell me," said she quickly,-"has your brother-has Albert"-she uttered no more; for with that name rushed the full tide of recollection, and she sank back with a deep groan upon her pillow. 
               "Here, dear mother, take this, it will help you," said Nettie soothingly, holding to her lips a composing draught the physician had left for a moment like this. 
               With an impatient gesture of her hand Mrs. Atherton dashed the cup from her. "Take it away," she whispered, "it will do me no good; I must think-think-think." 
               "But thinking will only make you worse, mother," Nettie expostulated. 
               Her words were unheeded by the prostrate woman, who clasped her hands tightly over her eyes, as if to shut out some frightful vision. In vain, wretched mother! that midnight scene can never be effaced! 
               Nettie, patient nurse and watcher, trembled as she saw the dark expression which gathered on her mother's face in this self-communing hour. Quietly she passed into the next room, and, laying her hand on Mr. Selwyn's arm, she said, "come with me; I have yet further ther need of your strength." Without a word he rose and followed her to Mrs. Atherton's bedside. 
               Most invaluable had been his presence and sympathy, both to father and daughter, through the tragic scenes of which he had been an accidental witness. Nettie leaned upon him with the simple, trustful confidence of a sister, and he was content that it should be so. He had read her young heart, and knew the idol enshrined there; but the pang it had caused him none ever suspected-least of all did the young girl know, how great had been his sacrifice for her happiness. Tenderly as would a cherished brother, he took her hand in his, as they stood beside her mother's bed. 
               "When did her reason return?" he whispered. 
               "A few moments since," Nettie replied in the same tone. "But see how dreadfully she is suffering." 
               "I will remain here with you," said he, quietly seating himself, still retaining her hand. 
               Just then Mrs. Atherton unclosed her eyes-she saw them there-Nettie's hand resting in his; and, in the confusion of her brain, she mistook him for another. 
               "Why do you stand there to mock me," she cried bitterly: "go, marry the wretch, if you choose; it matters little what becomes of us now." The last words were uttered in a tone of such utter wretchedness, as Mrs. Atherton closed her eyes, that their hearts were deeply touched. 
               "Mother," cried Nettie earnestly, "you do not know what you are saying; this is Mr. Selwyn, your friend, Mr. Selwyn." Again her eyes unclosed, but they rested upon him with a troubled expression. "Give her to him she loves, if you would hope for one gleam of mercy to your soul," she murmured, repeating Albert's words. 
               The listeners exchanged glances-they understood her words;-and hope for a moment shone brightly on Nettie's face, as she bent over the bed. "Mother," said she softly, "will you not do as he said? it will make me so very happy." 
               Now began the struggle, fierce and terrible, in that mother's heart; they who witnessed it trembled, as they saw the fearful expression it brought to her features. But soon her evil spirit gained the contest; it had reigned too long there to be easily dethroned; and hard and cold was the incrustation it laid over the just rippling waters. 
               "Never," she cried, springing up, her eyes dilated with passion; "you think to take advantage of my weakness; but I tell you it shall never be,-not if you curse me as he did with his last breath,-not if it shuts out for ever all mercy from my soul. I will not be thwarted in every thing." 
               With her mother's first words, Nettie had shrunk back to Mr. Selwyn's side, and a deep groan was her only reply to the unnatural woman. 
               "Do not despair," he whispered in her ear. "All will yet be well; only pursue the plan we proposed; and remember that in me you have a firm, unfailing friend." Nettie looked up with a grateful reply, just as he closed the door upon his retreat. 
                
               "Now, girl," Mrs. Atherton exclaimed when they were alone, "you need not think to elude me longer;-you shall marry Mr. Selwyn this very week." 
               "What!" said Nettie, "when we have just put on mourning!" Mrs. Atherton was a punctilious observer of forms. 
               "I had forgotten," she replied, "but you shall pledge yourself to him, and that, in the presence of witnesses." 
               "Wait till Mr. Selwyn wishes for such a pledge," said Nettie; "but oh, mother," she continued, tears gathering in her eyes, "tell me something of poor Albert's terrible death. I have so longed to know-and you were with him." 
               "Never let that name be mentioned in my presence again," Mrs. Atherton replied, in a voice whose icy coldness froze Nettie's blood,-"leave me now, I wish to sleep." 
               And Nettie did leave her, but not to sleep,-vainly she struggled with the terrible vision; she buried her head deep in the pillows, to stifle the sound of a wail that came echoing distinctly on her ear-the wail of her first-born's curse. She gnashed her teeth,-she tore her hair in her maddening agony; but still before her, with fearful distinctness, rose that midnight scene. And still shall it ever remain with her, for she turns with scorn from that love, which alone could bring light out of darkness like hers. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "'Tis my mother's name, not mine, I'd rescue 
                        From the foul scandal that doth beset it. 
                        For this I've roamed, for this I still must roam, 
                        Or die unsatisfied." 
                     
                   
                
               DAISYSIDE wore a saddened look-so Joseph Atherton and his good wife thought-in the absence of the young spirit that had for many years brightened their home. Lonny had been absent several months, and as yet, though they had looked daily and hourly, no message had come from him. 
               "I'll tell you what, Henny," said Joseph, one day, "I believe we shall hear from our boy soon-I had a dream about him, last night." 
               "Your dreams about him come in the day, as well as night," she replied, smiling. "I don't believe there's been an hour since he went away, that you haven't thought of him." 
               "That's a fact," said he; "but who could help it? the old place doesn't seem like itself without him; and I reckon, wife, your face will look a little more smiling when he comes back." 
                
               "I do feel anxious about the poor boy," replied Henrietta with a moistening eye, "I wish he hadn't felt so bad about his parents. I'm sure it would make no difference with us who they were." 
               "It's all that plaguy woman's doings," exclaimed Joseph, almost angrily; "she couldn't rest till she had set every body against him: the old vixen!" 
               "She didn't set Nettie against him, though; I believe that child loves him as she does her own eyes." 
               "Loves him, to be sure she does," Joseph replied, "and she'll marry him yet, in my opinion.-Oh, won't I do the handsome thing by them." 
               "I think Mark's wife would rather bury her, than see her marry him," said his wife; "and besides, you know, she has already picked out a husband for Nettie." 
               "Let her pick away. It won't do any good, or hurt; I should think the awful lesson she has had, would teach her that her way isn't always the best," said Joseph, putting on his hat to go out. "Whew! who is this coming up the hill?" he added, looking out of the window. 
               The object to which their attention was thus directed was, apparently, a young man, though as he came wearily up towards the house, his face was effectually concealed from observation by the slouched cap he had drawn over it; his clothes were soiled and dusty; his step slow and trembling, as from long travel. This was all the worthy couple had time to notice before he reached their door. Joseph Atherton's ever open hand extended its welcome to the tired traveller; but waving it gently aside, the young man passed silently through the open door, to where Henrietta still stood. Then removing his cap from his head, he disclosed the pale and sunken features of him for whom their hearts were longing. 
               "Lonny! dear boy, dear boy," shouted Joseph, throwing his great arms around him; while Henrietta's motherly heart overflowed her eyes, as she clasped both his hands in hers, murmuring: "thank God! my child has come at last." 
               Oh, how like dew to the thirsty flower came these warm gushings of heartfelt love to Lonny's worn and wearied frame. 
               "Bless you, dearest and best of friends," he uttered, "for this warm welcome home! I knew it awaited me here." 
               "To be sure you did," said Joseph; "but what makes you look so pale, my boy?" 
               "Let me get him something nice and warm to take, and give him some rest, before he tries to talk much," said Henrietta, whose anxious eyes had scanned the troubled face, and read its sorrow well. 
               Then, with womanly tact, she drew him into his own little chamber, snowy and spotless as her heart, and bidding him lie down upon its soft cushioned bed, she gently bathed his hands and face, smoothed out the tangled locks, soothing him all the while with her low musical voice, as she chatted cheerfully of all that had passed in his absence. Sweet soporific! nature could not long resist the charm, and Lonny, with still the pleasant sound lingering in his ear, sank into a profound slumber, such as he had not known for many months before. 
               "That is right," whispered the little woman, approvingly to herself, at this result of her efforts; "sleep will do him more good than any thing else. Poor boy, what can have troubled him so! no matter, he is at home now, and I must drive it all away." 
               Noiselessly she took from a drawer some sweet fresh linen, and laid it on a table near the bed-then beside it she placed a suit of new clothes her husband had bought for Lonny, in his absence; over the last she smiled, as she thought of the pleasant surprise it would be to him when he awoke-and then, with one more look at his pale face, one kiss, soft as an angel's, on his forehead, she quietly withdrew, to keep her watchful guard around the silent house. 
               Long, long he lay in that calm, peaceful slumber, sweet fancies painting with bright colors his sleeping thoughts, till at last he awoke, with a dear name upon his lips. 
               "She'll be yours yet, never fear," said Henrietta's pleasant voice, as he opened his eyes upon her. 
               "She! who? what do you mean? how came I here?" he asked, confusedly gazing around him. 
               "How came you here? that's a pretty question for a boy to ask his mother," said she, laughing; "you came here because you belonged here, and you'll marry Nettie because you love her." 
               The eager, happy look died away on Lonny's face, as he replied, "I shall never marry her, though I do love her as my own soul." 
               "We'll talk about that after supper," said Henrietta; "now dress up in these nice clean clothes, and come into the sitting-room with Joseph and me." 
               The dear little woman's quiet happiness was contagious; Lonny sprang up lightly, and was soon seated between those who cherished him as their own, looking fresh and invigorated. 
               "There, this seems something like," said Joseph, laying his hand on the young man's shoulder, with one of his own hearty smiles; "Henny and I have been terrible lonesome without you, my boy." 
               "And I," added Lonny, with feeling, "I have learned anew how dear is this home to me." 
               "What did you want to find another one for, then?" Joseph asked, abruptly but kindly. 
               "Not another home, uncle Joseph," said Lonny; "for I should never have left you, had I found one; but you know what sent me away." 
               "Yes, yes, my boy," Uncle Joseph replied, delicately refraining from any questions; "but you'll find it hard work to get away from us again." 
               "I would that it were not necessary," said Lonny; "but my mission is not yet fulfilled." 
               "You don't mean to say that you are going to be so foolish again," Uncle Joseph began, "and"- 
               "Now Lonny, don't talk so," chimed in Henrietta; but the young man shook his head sadly: 
               "I have made a vow," said he, "and I must not rest till it is accomplished. My heart would not be denied its longings to see you once more, and therefore I came now; but dearly as I love you-great as would be the joy of remaining in this blessed home, I must again become a stranger and pilgrim." 
               "Just because that old vixen called you a 'foundling,'" exclaimed Uncle Joseph, indignantly; "but I wouldn't mind any thing more about it, Lonny; she has got well punished now." 
               "It was not merely what your brother's wife said," Lonny replied; "she is but an example of what I meet with every where in society: do you think, Uncle Joseph, I can live calmly on, and let my mother's name and mine rest in infamy?" 
               "Infamy!" repeated Uncle Joseph; "because you were left a little friendless orphan, without the means of discovering who your parents were!" 
               "The world is not as charitable as you are, Uncle Joseph," said Lonny. 
               "Mark's wife may well talk of infamy," continued Joseph, excitedly, "since the terrible disgrace Albert has brought upon her name; but for yours, my boy, you have no need to blush." 
               "Neither do I, for any act of my own," Lonny replied, proudly; "but my mother, you know"-he hesitated. 
               "Was as good and pure as any mother in the land," added Joseph. 
               "I know it-I never doubted it," eagerly cried Lonny; "but how shall I convince the world of it?" 
                
               "What do you care for the world's opinion?" Uncle Joseph asked. 
               "I am obliged to care," replied Lonny; "my proud nature cannot brook the taunts, the insulting innuendoes, the cold, averted looks, and colder words, with which the world favors me." 
               "Poor boy!" said Uncle Joseph, compassionately; "it is a shame for you to suffer all these. But what can you do? Have you been able to get any clue to what you wish?" 
               "I cannot say that I have," Lonny answered; "and yet I am almost sure that I have seen my mother's grave." 
               "Where?" cried Uncle Joseph and his wife, in one breath. 
               "It is a long way from here," said Lonny, "in a little obscure village away up in one corner of New Hampshire. But, after all, there is no proof it was her grave." 
               "How did you happen to go there?" asked Henrietta Atherton. 
               "I will tell you," Lonny replied. "I followed a sort of dreamy, indistinct remembrance of places where my grandfather and I stayed during our wandering life. Many times, as some object would recall those old associations, I spent weeks vainly endeavoring to find some one who would remember the poor old man and boy. All my efforts proved fruitless till, late one evening, I sought shelter in a poor-looking cottage on the outskirts of a small village. The only inmates were an aged couple, who bade me welcome to such as they had, and in return seemed to expect me to answer their endless inquiries. So I told them my story, which immediately brought to their recollection a circumstance which they said occurred many years before. An old man and his wife, with an infant grandchild, came there one day, and begged to remain with them, saying he was able and willing to pay, for a home. They received them, and in about a year the old lady, who had seemed full of trouble and grief, died, and left Paul Brown, as he called himself, with the little child to care for. His money was all gone, and they were not able to help him, so he was taken with the child to the poor-house. He cried piteously not to be sent there, but there seemed to be no other alternative, and after a few months, in which his reason seemed to wander, he escaped, carrying with him the little helpless boy. Search was made for them, but the old man eluded all their efforts to find him, and he was never heard from again. 
               "Such was the statement made to me by these people, and hope at once sprang up in my heart that my search would be rewarded at last. But again I was doomed to disappointment; for my most diligent inquiries could elicit nothing further than was first told me. Nobody knew whence old Paul Brown had come, or whither he had gone. 
               "On I wandered, till at last, penniless and disheartened, I stopped at a thrifty farmer's, and asked for work to replenish my purse. 
                
               "One Sabbath evening, during my chance residence in this lonely town, I rambled through the grave-yard, and, with a sort of vague curiosity, began to read the epitaphs on the tombstones. Suddenly my eye was attracted to a grave apart from the rest in one corner of the yard; and, going towards it, I read on the beautiful marble slab, 'Sacred to the memory of my wife.' No date-no name was there: a simple iron railing enclosed the lonely spot, made more conspicuous among those neglected graves by the care with which it had been adorned. I cannot describe my sensations as I stood over that grave. I seemed to feel my mother's spirit about me, and, with a longing look at the words, 'my wife,' I hurried to the farmer's, full of anxious inquiries. From him I learned that she who was buried there had been the only child of a poor couple, living in a small red house which he pointed out to me. She was very beautiful, they said, though wild and gay; and her doting parents thought to make a fine lady of her, by sending her away to school. But it proved her ruin; for she returned to them very suddenly one bitter cold night, and before morning she was a corpse, leaving them a new-born infant as the witness of her shame and degradation. The old folks never held their heads up after that night; and as soon as possible they sold their few effects, and left the town with the child. What ever became of them he (the farmer) never knew; but he heard that the old lady and child died soon after that, and were buried in one grave. To my eager questionings he replied, that the old man's name was Paul Jennings, and his daughter's, Alice;-that, some time after she died, a young gentleman, supposed to be her seducer, came in anxious haste to find her,-that he seemed in great distress at her death, and caused the stone with its inscription to be placed at the head of her grave. He told every body that she was his lawful wife; but few believed it, though he appeared to be a very fine young man." 
               "I shouldn't be one mite surprised if it was your mother, Lonny," said Uncle Joseph, as the former paused; "your grandfather might have changed his name, you know." 
               "I thought of that," replied Lonny. "I thought, too, perhaps he might have told Aunt Lottie something more than I knew. She was with him when he died." 
               "That's it! go right off and see Lottie," exclaimed Uncle Joseph. 
               "Such was my intention, after I had visited this dear home," Lonny answered; "but we must not be too sanguine; there may be nothing in it, after all; and then I must away to my wearisome search again;" and he sighed deeply. 
               "Well, we'll see after you've talked with Aunt Lottie," said Joseph Atherton, echoing the sigh; "but I wish you didn't feel so." 
               "For Nettie's sake, as well as my own, I must persevere," Lonny replied. 
               "Ah, poor boy! do you know how the old lady means to disappoint you there? but she won't, though, I'll be bound." 
                
               "What do you mean, Uncle Joseph?" 
               "Why, Mark's wife is trying to marry her off to a rich fellow from New York, and the poor child has pined away terribly; so Lottie writes us; but she thinks it will all turn out right." 
               "Then, first of all, I must see Nettie," cried Lonny, agitatedly springing up and pacing the room: "she must not feel bound to my dark and uncertain future." 
               "Why, boy, can you give her up so easy as that?" asked Uncle Joseph with surprise; "if any body had tried to get my Henny away from me before I was married, they'd had to fight pretty hard, I can tell you." 
               "Easy!" repeated Lonny with a bitter smile; "would it be easy, think you, to have your quivering heart torn from your living body! to have your eyes drawn from their sockets, while yet you were enjoying their light! or to leap the yawning chasm, in whose utter darkness you knew you must find your living tomb! all these, and more, is it for me to lose Nettie; and yet I would suffer all, to make her happy." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Good deeds, and secret charities bestowed, 
                        Shall find their recompense laid up in store; 
                        They are the seeds deep sown in heavenly soil, 
                        Yielding rich and unexpected harvests." 
                     
                   
                
               WITH happy trust Nettie leaned on the arm of her companion, as they returned from a long ramble he had persuaded her to take, to relieve the monotony of her sick-bed attendance. Mr. Selwyn still lingered at the Athertons; he could not bring himself to leave the sweet girl in her troubles; and Nettie, with an almost broken-hearted father to soothe, a querulous, ill-tempered, exacting mother to nurse, found herself often overtasked: then it was, that the deep, sympathetic heart, the strong, unwearying arm of her new friend softened those cares, and drew forth her warmest gratitude. Their perfect understanding with each other threw off her reserve; and when, as was often the case, he led her away from her cares through the green fields and woods, her glad heart poured its melody into his soul, and made him rejoice in the happiness he had helped create. 
                
               Thus had they rambled one day, Nettie's glowing cheeks and sparkling eyes breathing their inward peace around her, when, as they passed the old hut whose ruins still stood where Paul Brown's last home was found, a deep groan arrested their steps. 
               "What can that mean?" exclaimed Mr. Selwyn, while Nettie clung closer to his arm. "It must be some one in distress," he added; "will you fear to remain here while I go in and see?" 
               "Oh, no; certainly not," Nettie replied cheerfully; "I was a little startled at first; but go at once; and if I can be of any service, call me." 
               Mr. Selwyn gently pushed the half-open door upon its rusty hinges, which gave way, and it fell with a crash to the earth. 
               "Emblematical!" cried a voice from within, which he saw, to his surprise, proceeded from a well-dressed, fine-looking young man. 
               "I beg your pardon," said Mr. Selwyn, drawing back; "I thought I heard a sound as of some one in distress." 
               "You were not mistaken," replied the other; "I could not repress the groan which burst from my lips-I am miserable." 
               "And why so? can I not offer you some consolation, some sympathy in your trouble?" Mr. Selwyn advanced as he said this. 
               "You!" cried the young man bitterly; "it is you who have taken from me all the joy of my life." 
                
               "What mean you?" Mr. Selwyn exclaimed with astonishment, and "who are you, to say this?" 
               "I will tell you who I am, and then perhaps you will understand," said the young man, coming close to him and whispering in his ear. 
               "Thank heaven!" was Mr. Selwyn's only reply, as he went to the door and beckoned to Nettie. 
               With a timid, half trembling step she obeyed; but it needed no second glance, no word, to convince him to whose heart she was at once enfolded, that he held there his own.
                
               "This seems like some strange, incomprehensible dream," said he at length; "it cannot be real; Nettie, light of my soul, speak-tell me that it is your living, breathing self, that I thus clasp to my heart." 
               "Look at me, Lonny," said the young girl, raising her glowing face to his; "you could not mistake me for a spirit, could you?" and she smilingly withdrew from his embrace. 
               "But your lover, Nettie"-he pointed towards the door where Mr. Selwyn had disappeared at their first meeting. 
               "Is here," she replied with a sweet smile. 
               "Yet I saw you walking with him so affectionately, so happy-" 
               "That you thought I had lost all remembrance of him to whom my heart is pledged," said Nettie, finishing his sentence. 
               "Nay, Nettie; I do not wish you to feel pledged to me-I came here to tell you this, when I heard that you were sought by one whom your friends approved; but when I saw you with him-saw your happy smiles bestowed on him, my heart groaned in its agony. Oh, Nettie, my life, how can I give thee up?" 
               "Will you still compel me to seek instead of being sought," replied Nettie, earnestly; "once have I given you my unasked hand, now again do I repeat the act, and call Heaven to witness, that none other shall ever receive it." 
               "Bless you for ever for those words, Nettie!" cried he, clasping her hand within his own burning palms; "but who is he your parents would have you wed?" 
               "One whom you will love and honor when you know him," she replied; "but you shall hear from his own lips the story of our engagement," and with a smiling emphasis on the last word, she called Mr. Selwyn within the hut. 
               There, where childhood's dark hours had passed so wearily over him, Lonny saw the sacrifice his happiness had caused a noble heart; he, the outcast, was deemed worthy a gem kings might covet. 
               What wonder that Mr. Selwyn dashed the fast-flowing tears from his eyes, as the happy lovers called down blessings upon his head; or felt, that even the possession of Nettie's hand could not bring such pure unalloyed bliss as now glowed within his breast. His noble deed had brought its own reward. Lonny stepped with light and joyous tread from the hut he had entered full of misery-the world was all bright before him now. Nettie's loving smile had cast its radiance about him, and lo! his darkness turned to light. 
               "I may not return with you," said he, as the three walked towards Mr. Atherton's; "never must I enter your home, Nettie, till I can present to your proud mother a name as worthy as her own." 
               "Which I have no doubt you will soon do," added Mr. Selwyn, encouragingly; "looks do not often belie one, and I see in yours a noble origin." 
               "Thank you," replied Lonny, with a beaming eye; "that is all that is now wanting to complete my felicity; but for you, Mr. Selwyn, how can I express the deep reverence with which your name will ever dwell in my heart; earth has no reward for deeds like yours-in Heaven alone can such be found." 
               "I am already richly repaid in witnessing your happiness," said Mr. Selwyn; "besides, the rule by which I have endeavored to be guided, does not teach us to look for earthly reward. You owe more than you suspect to your friends at Willow Glen." 
               "How is that," Nettie asked with curiosity; "did Aunt Lottie talk with you about us?" 
               "Only in a silent way," Mr. Selwyn replied, smiling; "I had almost concluded to secure a beautiful prize, which had been promised me, even against her own wishes, when my eye accidentally fell upon the exquisite piece of workmanship on Mrs. Thornton's drawing-room mantel; for a moment I was almost overcome by the peculiar adaptation of those golden words to my case. They brought my own mother's teachings, too, so vividly before me that I resolved at once to abide by them, and I bless God, who gave me strength to do so." 
               "Aunt Lottie should be canonized," eagerly exclaimed Lonny, as Mr. Selwyn ceased. "She is a saint on earth; at least she has been such to me-for, from first to last, my blessings have all seemed to come through her." 
               "I am not surprised that you are so enthusiastic in her praise," said Mr. Selwyn, with a significant glance at Nettie; "she has preserved for you a rare treasure." 
               "There her praise must be shared by you, sir," gratefully replied Lonny; "but now I must leave my 'treasure' with you for a time, happy in the peaceful security your protection will afford her." 
               "Nettie, you have chosen well," was Mr. Selwyn's only remark, as they watched Lonny's receding steps, till he disappeared from their sight. 
               Wrapped in delicious dreams-forgetful even for a time of the momentous subject which had drawn him thither, Lonny reached Willow Glen and received the cordial welcome of its inmates. 
               "What has become of the cloud that was on your face when I saw you last?" Charlotte Thornton asked playfully. 
               "It has turned its silver lining towards you now," he replied in the same tone; "nevertheless the cloud is still there." 
               "But if it could always be thus concealed," she added, "you would seem much happier." 
                
               "Rather let it be removed, and then the seeming would become reality," said Lonny with emotion. 
               "That is right," cried Mr. Thornton; "go beneath the surface if you would have a good foundation on which to build." 
               "And that is precisely what I came to you for," said Lonny, turning to Aunt Lottie; "the foundation on which I can alone build any earthly happiness is my parentage." 
               "How can I help you in that?" she asked with surprise. 
               "You were with my grandfather when he died," Lonny replied; "did he say nothing to you concerning my birth-my father?" 
               "He tried to, I have no doubt," said Aunt Lottie; "but death closed his lips ere he could utter what he seemed so anxious to tell me." 
               "How it might have changed all my life, had he but done me that justice," said Lonny, mournfully; "Heaven only knows now where my trials will end." 
               "In Heaven, at least, they will," cheerfully replied Aunt Lottie; "and here, if you can only teach your heart its hardest lesson,-submission." 
               "Submission to what?" he asked bitterly. 
               "To Him who suffers this dark cloud to rest upon you; and in whose chastenings there is oft a blessing hid," said Aunt Lottie, with tender earnestness. 
               "You, whose life is a blessing to every one with whom you meet, may talk of submission," he replied; "but can I, ought I, to sit tamely down and submit my name, my mother's name, to be coupled with epithets that bring the burning blush of shame to my cheek? can I submissively bend to the fiat which society sends forth against such as I! No! I will die first," he added with fearful emphasis. 
               "You are right, Lonny," cried Mr. Thornton with irrepressible emotion; "you have struck a long hidden chord in my breast; never rest while an imputation remains on the name of one you love." 
               "Your words strengthen my resolution, sir," said Lonny. "I have vowed and cannot go back. But I must confess my disappointment in not finding here the aid I hoped." 
               "You mean in reference to your grandfather's communication to my wife." 
               "I do, sir." 
               "Why, Lonny," said Aunt Lottie, "I should have told you long ago, if he had given me any clue to your birth. But you have not yet told us the result of your efforts the last six months." 
               "There is nothing to tell you," he replied, smiling sadly; "at least, nothing that can be proved. If instead of Brown my grandfather's name had been Paul Jennings, I might-" 
               "Paul Jennings!" repeated Mr. Thornton, interrupting him, "what do you know of him?" 
               "In a little town where I stopped," said Lonny, "I heard some things connected with a family of that name which interested me strangely, and led me almost to think he and Paul Brown were the same, and his unfortunate daughter my mother." 
               "What did you hear?" Mr. Thornton asked, in a voice whose startling earnestness caused his wife to look up with surprise into his agitated face. Lonny was no less astonished, as he replied,- 
               "It was a simple story, sir-an old couple of that name had an only daughter, whose beauty proved her ruin, and their disgrace. She came home one night, after a long absence, and the next day they laid her in the church-yard-their aged heads bowed with grief and shame. Soon they fled from the scene of their humiliation, carrying with them the babe their daughter had left." 
               "Go on," said Mr. Thornton, as Lonny paused. 
               "There is little more to be told," said Lonny; "but that is the brightest part of the picture. Soon after the old people had left the place, a young man appeared, who claimed to be the husband of the unfortunate girl; and, as if to satisfy all doubts, placed a headstone at her grave, with the inscription, 'Sacred to the memory of my wife.' Great search was made for those who fled, but no tidings of them could ever be found." 
               "What made you think that Paul Brown and that old man might be the same?" Charlotte Thornton asked, as a suspicion of the cause of her husband's agitation crossed her mind. 
               "It was merely a surmise, and must ever remain so, I suppose," Lonny replied; "but some thirty or forty miles from the place where this occurred, I heard that an old man, calling himself Paul Brown, had about that time brought his wife and grandchild to a retired cottage, where they remained till she died; that then he was taken to the poor-house, from which he fled with the child, and was never heard from afterwards. That that was my grandfather, there can be no doubt, and I had a faint hope that you could help me identify him as the same Paul Jennings." 
               "It does almost look as if it were so," said Aunt Lottie. 
               "Paul Jennings' grandchild died," said Mr. Thornton, with a significant look, which his wife understood. 
               "It is very likely," Lonny replied; "but as I knelt over that grave, my mother's spirit seemed so near me, I involuntarily drew forth her miniature, to see if it did not smile upon me." 
               "Your mother's miniature! let me see it;" and Mr. Thornton nervously grasped the case Lonny held towards him. 
               "Alice! my wife!" he almost shrieked. "Great God! what does this mean!" Then, with sudden inspiration, catching the bewildered young man to his heart, he cried out: "By what miracle thou hast been saved, I know not; but thou art Alice's child-and mine!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
                
                  
                      
                        "I would bring balm, and pour it in your wound, 
                        Cure your distempered mind, and heal your fortunes." 
                     
                   
                
               "A COLD, drizzling rain,-wind east-about the 20th of September-prospect of a pretty stiff equinoctial." 
               Such were Mr. Ashton's observations one morning, as he betook himself to his cheerful grate and dreamy thoughts. These fits of musing,-these reveries, had grown strangely upon him of late. His young partner, Richard Morton, had known him to sit thus for hours, quite unconscious of what was passing around him. It must be a very perplexing law case, that requires such intense thought. Perhaps-but we will listen, as he sits there alone this rainy morning, his feet perched high above the glowing coals, his head thrown back, and eyes closed,-a most lawyer-like position, certainly-favorable both to the intellect and-client. 
               "I wonder what she did mean," said he, for at least the hundredth time within the last three months, "Pshaw! what do I care whether she is what she seems or not; she is nothing to me, and never will be. (Unfortunate client!) Yet her words puzzle me more and more, the longer I think of them. (A perplexing law-case, certainly!) I ought really to have asked an explanation of them; but somehow her agitation affected me strangely. Heigho! what a dull place New York is getting to be!-ladies so insipid, and the men all falling in love, or getting married. What a splendid wife she would make some one! I verily believe I should knock down the first man that asked her,-and yet I wouldn't marry her myself; she is an heiress; and, besides-ha-ha-ha-Lewis Ashton talk about marrying any one! he must be blindfolded first." 
               "You seem to be making yourself very merry in your comfortable easy chair, this most uncomfortable morning," said Richard Morton, coming in at that moment, with a package of letters in his hand;-"pray, allow me to share your happy thoughts." 
               "Rather, let me share your pleasant news," replied the lawyer, glancing, it must be confessed, with longing eyes, at the delicate missive from Woodbine Lodge. 
               "I have just taken them from the office," said Richard, seating himself, and breaking the seal of one which looked like a business document. 
               "Children always eat the best first," said Mr. Ashton, pointing significantly to a letter Richard had laid aside from the rest. 
               "But we older ones always preserve the choicest dish for our dessert," Richard replied, with a smile. 
               "Now you are caught, sir," said Mr. Ashton, laughing; "by your own confession your love-feast is fit only for a dessert-something which can easily be dispensed with,-nothing nourishing or substantial about it." 
               "You ought certainly to be a judge, sir," said Richard with a mischievous look, "for you have been sitting at that same unsubstantial feast for some time." 
               "Me! what do you mean?" Mr. Ashton was thoroughly astonished. 
               "That you are in love, of course," Richard laughingly replied. 
               "And pray, who is the fortunate object?" asked the lawyer with mock seriousness, laying his hand over his heart. 
               "Miss Mowbray," was Richard's short reply, as he sank back in his chair, and gave himself up to the perusal of his letters, leaving the lawyer to digest the truth in silence. 
               And he did digest it, bitter morsel though it was, till his quickening pulse and throbbing heart warned him of the burning fever within. Away flew busy thought at once, where of late it had so often wandered, and Mr. Ashton was again buried in one of his reveries. 
               "I must go to Boston!" 
               Richard's sudden exclamation brought the lawyer to his feet. "Why to Boston?" he asked. 
               "My father's family are in deep trouble." 
               "Who is that in trouble?" asked Mr. Selwyn, coming in. 
               "My parents, sir," Richard answered: "it seems that my eldest sister has eloped with one who she supposed was a titled foreigner, but who turns out to be a notorious villain, who has swindled my father out of all his property, and left him nothing but a debtor's prison." 
               "Cannot the fellow be caught?" 
               "He is half-way across the Atlantic by this time," said Richard, "and besides, he has accomplices who would screen him from the law. But only think,-my father in prison!" he added, with deep emotion. 
               "Let me go with you, Morton," said Mr. Selwyn; "my purse needs lightening, and besides, I have news which calls me in that direction, too." 
               "The same that Maggie writes me, I presume," said Richard, "about Mr. Thornton discovering a son in young Brown." 
               "Yes; isn't that wonderful?" asked Mr. Selwyn with a gratified smile. 
               "What's that! young Brown Mr. Thornton's son!" exclaimed Mr. Ashton. 
               "So it seems,-his child by an early marriage. He always supposed the boy died in infancy, but by some strange means he has just discovered, that this young man is his son." 
               "And you seem pleased, Selwyn," Mr. Ashton queried. 
               "I am most heartily so, I assure you," Mr. Selwyn replied with a beaming eye; "indeed, I know of nothing which could have gratified me more." 
               "You are a perfect enigma to me, Selwyn. Ever since you and Miss Atherton had that long tte--tte, you have seemed as happy as any successful lover might be expected to; and yet you have ceased to talk to me about marriage settlements,-and now comes up a most formidable rival, whom you know she loved even in his less prosperous days, and you rejoice over it, 'most heartily.' O love! what art thou but an empty sound!" 
               "Do you mean to insinuate that I do not love Nettie Atherton?" Mr. Selwyn asked, with a pretended offence. 
               "Now hear the fellow! Yes, I do." 
               "Allow me to say, that you were never more mistaken in your life," Mr. Selwyn replied very coolly. 
               "Selwyn, I do believe you are out of your senses. Now, answer me yea or nay,-are you engaged to Miss Atherton?" and Mr. Ashton bent his keen gaze upon the other. 
               "Yes, I am engaged to her," was Mr. Selwyn's replay, after a moment's pause. 
               "And yet, 'nothing could have gratified you more' than that this old lover of hers should have turned out a fit match for her, even in her aristocratic mother's estimation." 
               "That is all true, too," said Mr. Selwyn with provoking calmness. 
               "Then what in the name of reason do you expect will come of all this?" Mr. Ashton asked excitedly. 
               "Nothing but happiness," responded Mr. Selwyn, smiling; "but come, come, Ashton, how can you expect to know any thing of the heart's phases-you, the skeptic-the unbeliever?" 
               "Perhaps an unbeliever, but not untouched," Richard added with a quick smile, as he prepared to leave. 
               "What! off so soon?" exclaimed Mr. Ashton. 
               "Yes, I cannot rest till I have seen my father." 
               "Then we will place our card-'absent on business,' at the door, for I am going with you." 
               "You?" 
               "Yes; I must offer my congratulations to Mr. Thornton; he was an old friend of mine, you know, and-" 
               "And Woodbine Lodge is quite near Willow Glen," said Richard, finishing his sentence. 
               "Come, come; none of your suspicions, Morton," said Mr. Ashton, coloring; "you are not as wise as you think yourself." 
               "We shall see," replied Richard, arranging his papers. 
               Alone, in a comfortless, carpetless, scantily furnished room, an old man sat, his head buried in his hands, his chest convulsively heaving with its intense emotion. It was not that he had wrecked the happiness and life of a fair young girl;-it was not that he had defrauded the poor till his name had become a terror to them;-it was not that he had lived a life of duplicity and meanness,-not that he had cast off his only son by harsh, ill usage, destroyed by his own example and teachings the happiness and honor of his daughter; no, all these Judge Morton had done, and yet the world smiled upon him in his princely home. But now that, through another's wickedness, he had become impoverished, the prison was his home, felons his companions; while they who had fawned upon him in the days of his prosperity, turned from the miserable debtor with scorn and loathing. In crowds they could flock at the sound of the auctioneer's hammer, within his splendid mansion, but not one among them all would stretch forth his hand to alleviate the sufferings of the unhappy man. Such was the world's friendship,-that for which he had lived and toiled; and now-bitter lesson-he was learning its worth. Wife and child had gone from him, to seek support among their friends; alone he stood, like the blackened remains of some lightning-blasted tree. 
               "Father!"-the gentle voice reached not his ear, so filled with discordant sounds. 
               "Father!"-and a hand was laid lightly upon his shoulder, which caused his bowed head to turn languidly towards the speaker. 
               "Richard, my son!" 
               How in a moment flashed his whole life before him, as the father fell on his son's neck and wept! 
               "This is indeed dreadful!" exclaimed Richard, gazing on the wasted form, and sunken, haggard features of his father; "believe me, sir, I hastened to you the moment I learned your misfortune." 
               "And is it you, Richard, that comes to me thus;-you, who, more than all others, have reason to curse my name?" 
                
               "Hush! do not speak so! remember you are my father," said Richard; "now we must hasten to remove you from this place at once." 
               "That is impossible," sighed Judge Morton. 
               "How so? it is for debt alone you are confined here?" Richard asked, almost fearfully. 
               "Yes, but that is the most hopeless of all thraldom." 
               Well might the judge say this, as before his memory rose the many wasted lives he had caused to be spent here. 
               "We will try not to have it so in your case," said Richard, cheerfully. "Come now into more comfortable quarters, and then you shall give me the names of your principal creditors, and the amount." 
               "You forget, I cannot leave this place," said the judge, with a bitter smile; "your father is a prisoner." 
               "But you can leave on bail," said Richard, "and that is already secured; come." 
               It was astonishing to see the change which the appearance of a friend had created in favor of the prisoner. The officers bowed with respectful deference, as Judge Morton passed out, leaning on the arm of his son. Not until they reached the hotel, and he found himself in a luxurious apartment, did he realize the change that son had wrought. 
               "Now," said Richard, "we must to business, at once; tell me, as nearly as you can, the amount of your liabilities." 
               "Ten thousand dollars." 
                
               "What! after the sale of all your effects? your house and furniture?" 
               "Yes," replied the judge, moodily; "that fellow cheated me out of all my property." 
               Richard bit his lips; he was not prepared for such a statement. 
               "Well," said he at length, "we must make the best of it-now give me the names of your creditors; I will see every one of them. I have nothing, you know-nothing but what these hands can earn. But, father," he added, looking earnestly at him, "are you willing to labor with me? can you endure to begin life again, in a humble way?" 
               An agonizing groan burst from the judge's lips. 
               "I know it must cost you a terrible struggle," said Richard, compassionately; "I wish it were in my power to save you from it; but, father, I will always remain with you, to lighten your cares, if you desire it. Think of it now, while I am gone, and then we will together plan our future." 
               Think! ah, Richard need not bid him do that; his thoughts were his bitterest enemies; and now they came trooping upon him in wild confusion and dismay. All day long (for Richard's was no quick task) he paced the soft carpeted floor, more intolerable to him than his prison boards; now vowing in his rage that he will return and die in his cell, rather than brave the world's sneer, and become dependent on the son he had cast from him; then, as a flood of tender recollections swept over him, and he saw that son, ever dutiful, ever affectionate tionate, calmly and steadfastly pursuing his noble course, and now coming as a ministering angel to redeem the father who had despised him, falling on his knees, with streaming eyes he would call Heaven to witness, that he would yet prove worthy such a child. His physical frame, exhausted by long trials, could illy endure such intense agitation; and when Richard returned, he found his father tossing wildly upon the bed; a burning fever raging through his veins. To watch beside him in the long delirium which followed, to listen to sickening details of crime long since committed, to live over again the disgraceful family scenes which he had often witnessed, to hear his own name coupled with dreadful epithets, and then appealed to in tones of childish entreaty, were trials from which Richard would often shrink with horror. But as reason returned, and with its light a dawning hope of an amended life, he blessed God, who had carried him through the dark scene. 
               Not at once could the proud heart be subdued,-not without a mighty struggle could he, who had ruled thousands, become a humble, daily toiler. But Judge Morton, in all his palmiest days, never knew happiness so pure as that with which, at each day's close, he prayed a fervent "God bless you" upon the head of his son.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "'Tis by thy wits accursed, and foul intent, 
                        And treacherous heart, and lies thou dost invent, 
                        Thou hop'st to gratify thy hellish pride, 
                        And give thy child to Mammon for its bride. 
                        Alas! thou dost not know the woes they'll bring, 
                        When thy proud heart shall feel their bitter sting." 
                     
                   
                
               AN exultant smile rested upon Mrs. Mark Atherton's face; it sat strangely there, on those sallow features, whose habitual expression had become one of stolid indifference to all about her. Since the first shock of Albert's terrible death had passed away, she had maintained a stubborn silence concerning that event. Even her husband could only imagine the dreadful scene to which his wife had been a witness. All Nettie's tender, assiduous attentions could not draw a smile, or word of endearment from the apathetic woman. Yet still, the sweet girl wearied not in her efforts to bring back the sunshine to her mother's heart. The room in which Mrs. Atherton sat bore marks of the tender thoughtfulness of her young nurse. The perfume of fresh flowers, tastefully arranged in vases, filled the apartment ment; a low, cheerful fire burned upon the hearth, before which, near the lounge where her mother reclined, Nettie had drawn a light table, covered with delicate, costly luxuries, and choicest books. Over all pervaded an air of refinement and taste soothing to the invalid. Nettie's hand had smoothed the silvery hair, and placed the snowy cap upon her mother's head,-had arranged the rich folds of her cashmere wrapper, and then, with a gentle kiss, she had playfully bade her "adieu for one little hour," to enjoy a ride with her father-a recreation she much needed. 
               After her daughter's departure, the mother seemed lost in thought; a half-relenting look stole imperceptibly around her mouth; but at that moment the postman's loud knock resounded through the house, and a servant entered with letters and papers. Over the former Mrs. Atherton cast a hurried, indifferent glance; but in an instant her whole expression changed. Hastily seizing two which bore a familiar post-mark, she threw herself upon the lounge, and, without one feeling of reproach or remorse, while yet that soft, innocent kiss warmed her brow, she calmly possessed herself of their contents. Then, with a defiant, scornful expression, she deliberately laid them upon the burning coals, and watched till the last spark had fled. This it was which had called the almost demoniacal smile to her face,-a smile in which hatred, malice and revenge mingled in infernal brotherhood. 
               "I'll foil them yet-the beggarly race," she exclaimed with clinched hands; "they shall find that I can both remember and revenge an insult. Ha! ha! my young set-up pauper! little did you think whose eyes would devour your honeyed words! But the post-office must be carefully watched. Thank fortune, money can do that. A formal request for Nettie's hand, forsooth!-I only wish her lover was here." 
               Almost as in answer to her words, Mr. Selwyn was announced, and the welcome visitor was greeted by Mrs. Atherton with an affectionate warmth quite unusual to her. 
               "Your coming is so opportune!" she exclaimed. "I was just wishing for your presence." 
               "Ah!" said he; "is there any special reason for your desiring to see me now?" 
               "Yes," she replied; "but first allow me to order refreshments for you." 
               "Where is your little housekeeper and nurse?" 
               "Nettie has gone to ride with her father," Mrs. Atherton replied; "she has seemed quite drooping of late; she needs an entire change of scene and air, I think." 
               "I do not doubt it," said Mr. Selwyn; "she is a sensitive little plant, and must be nourished with care." 
               "I am glad you understand her so well," Mrs. Atherton replied meaningly, as her guest seated himself to her inviting repast. 
               "To understand Nettie," said Mr. Selwyn, "is to know all that is pure and holy in our natures; for she embodies all. By the way," he added, without noticing the half sneer upon Mrs. Atherton's face, "that was quite a romantic affair about Mr. Thornton's newly found son, wasn't it?" 
               "More romantic than honorable," she replied. 
               "How so? what do you mean?" he asked with surprise. 
               "It may be romantic for a man to form disgraceful alliances in his youth; but I call it neither honorable nor right for him to palm off upon his friends and the public an illegitimate child, with the story of an early, secret marriage." 
               Mr. Selwyn leaned back in perfect astonishment; he could not comprehend the woman. 
               "Is it possible," said he, "that you doubt the honor of such a man as Melville Thornton? I thought it past all suspicion." 
               "You do not know him as well as I," Mrs. Atherton replied; "human nature has its weaknesses, you know." 
               "And yours is, to despise everything and every body that has any goodness in them," was Mr. Selwyn's thought that moment; but he merely replied, 
               "No one can be more conscious of that than I; yet you surely do not believe the intimation you made concerning Mr. Thornton." 
               "Believe it! I know it. Judge Morton told me the story some time ago, though he did not know the child was living. But I believe Mr. Thornton has known it all the while, and his wife too; and that is the reason she took such a fancy to the creature. They may deceive others by this 'sudden discovery,' but not me. I say it is a shameful imposition." 
                
               "I am astonished and grieved to hear you say so," Mr. Selwyn answered mildly, "both because of the respect I have for Mr. Thornton, and the affection your daughter still retains for the young man, his son." 
               "What do you know of that?" cried Mrs. Atherton, almost fiercely; "has the girl dared to tell you so?" 
               "It is not necessary to be told what one can so plainly see," Mr. Selwyn replied; "but I beg you will spare Nettie your reproaches; she does not deserve them." 
               "And you can speak calmly of such faithlessness, in your betrothed wife too?" Mrs. Atherton exclaimed, half angrily. 
               "Nettie and I have never been formally betrothed," said Mr. Selwyn, "though in truth I may say I had looked to such an event with blissful anticipations. But would you, her mother, have her wed where her heart goes not?" 
               "If you wish to withdraw from your engagement with Nettie,-an engagement which, but for the unfortunate occurrence in our family, I had supposed would be consummated by marriage ere this, you can do so without drawing from me any seeming assent," haughtily replied Mrs. Atherton. 
               "Such was not my purpose, I assure you," said Mr. Selwyn. "Nettie and I have a perfect understanding with each other; and she is a mirror of truth and faithfulness." 
               "What did you mean then by your question?" 
                
               "Simply to ascertain your opinion of the attachment which exists between her and Mr. Thornton's son." 
               "You might have put it in a different form, then," said Mrs. Atherton, somewhat mollified; "but I will tell you what I think, though in so doing I may speak harshly of relatives. In early childhood, Nettie's aunt implanted false principles in her breast, which I could never eradicate. She taught her to associate with the low classes,-to make them her confidants; and, for reasons which I can now understand, though I did not then, she cultivated an intimacy with that very child, and almost forced Nettie into companionship with him. This she did, contrary to my express commands, not only encouraging disobedience, but putting foolish notions into the child's head. She has got over them now, though, I think." 
               "What you have said surprises me, Mrs. Atherton," quoth Mr. Selwyn, after a moment's silence; "but allow me to ask you another question. Were Nettie free to choose whom she would marry, and her choice should fall on the young man in question, would you hesitate to sanction it, now that his position is unexceptionable?" 
               "I tell you she should never marry that fellow; no, never!" Mrs. Atherton brought down her hand violently. 
               "You do not say that to save my feelings?" he queried, wishing to draw her out. 
               "Listen to me, and judge for yourself," said she. "Years ago, in this very house, Melville Thornton and his wife insulted me publicly,-yes, deliberately insulted me in my own house; and from that moment I hated them. I have waited patiently for the revenge which I then vowed. Think you I would see my daughter wedded to their blood? No; that boy, in his rags, was never so hateful to me as Melville Thornton's son. I have said to you what never before escaped my lips," she added; "but I do not fear your betrayal." 
               "You need have no fear of that, madam," Mr. Selwyn replied; "but you will not wonder that I am much shocked at the revelations you have made. It convinces me, however, that young Thornton could have no hope of winning Nettie, even if I did not stand in his way." 
               Mrs. Atherton's reply was prevented by the entrance of Nettie and her father, just returned from their ride. The happy smile with which the beautiful girl greeted Mr. Selwyn, might have deceived one even more watchful than her mother. Mrs. Atherton cared not for the smile, except so far as it might please the rich, aristocratic suitor; she cared not, though another's image than his dwelt in Nettie's heart; her daughter's happiness entered not into the cold calculations of the scheming, heartless mother. 
               "There are your returns from the mail," Mrs. Atherton remarked to her husband, pointing to a side-table. 
               Nettie eagerly glanced over the letters; but she turned away with an expression of disappointment that did not escape the notice of her mother and Mr. Selwyn. The former saw it with secret triumph, the latter with solicitude. 
                
               "What can it mean?" said the artless girl, as she was left alone with Mr. Selwyn that evening; "since Lonny's first letter, telling me of his great and surprising joy in discovering that Uncle Melville was his father, I have not heard a word, though he said he should write again immediately, as soon as he returned from Uncle Joseph's; and that Uncle Melville would write to my father, asking his consent to our engagement." 
               "That is all very easily explained," Mr. Selwyn replied; "Lonny is no doubt detained longer at Daisyside than he expected, and Mr. Thornton is awaiting his return before he writes. I wish you had no deeper cause for trouble, my dear girl." 
               "What is it?" Nettie asked, as she caught an implied meaning in his words. 
               "Have you any expectation that your mother will consent to such an engagement?" 
               "Yes, certainly; why not? what objection can she have now? especially when she comes to know that you decline marrying her daughter?" Nettie added playfully. 
               "You have not read her aright, dear Nettie; she will never consent." 
               "Not consent! now that he is Uncle Melville's son?" exclaimed Nettie; "what makes you think so, Mr. Selwyn?" 
               "I may not betray her confidence, Nettie; but she has to-day told me that which for ever shuts out all hope of her sanction to your union with Lonny" 
                
               "Then, Mr. Selwyn," said Nettie, drawing herself up with decision, "I shall marry without her sanction. Although she is my mother, I cannot always endure her tyranny; the worm will turn at last, you know." 
               Mr. Selwyn was astonished at this outburst from the ever gentle girl; but he exclaimed approvingly: 
               "That is right, Nettie; there are some cases, and this is one, where I hold that parents have no power to decide for their children. But what says your father?" 
               "I have not burdened my father with my affairs," said Nettie; "he has enough troubles of his own, poor man! but I hear his step on the stairs; now I will tell him all." 
               "Father," she called, opening the door, "has mother retired yet?" 
               "She has, my child; she is unusually nervous and excited to-night; but I think the anodyne I have given her will quiet her to sleep," Mr. Atherton replied. 
               "Then will you come in here, father? I want to have a little talk with you." 
               Mr. Atherton smiled as he entered the room. He imagined what the purport of the "talk" might be. What was his surprise, therefore, when Nettie, laying her hand affectionately in his, told him all her heart's history, and her voluntary engagement with Lonny! 
               "What is all this?" said he with a puzzled air, as she ceased; "I thought"-and he looked significantly towards Mr. Selwyn. 
               "You thought that I would marry your daughter without her consent," Mr. Selwyn queried, half reproachfully. 
               "No, not exactly that,-but-well, the truth is, I did not know what to think, since you and Nettie have seemed so fond of each other. I had made up my mind to let matters take their course." 
               "You did wisely, sir," Mr. Selwyn replied; "your daughter, in making me the confidant of what she has now told you, has secured my warmest friendship, and saved both herself and me from much misery. I would still befriend her; and therefore I join my entreaties to hers, that you will ratify a union so necessary to her happiness. Mr. Thornton can now offer her a most unexceptionable and honorable name." 
               "As to that," said Mr. Atherton, "it will make no difference to me; I always liked the young man, and determined Nettie should marry him, if she wished." 
               "Then you will consent, even if mother does not?" Nettie asked with a bright smile. 
               "I do not know what your mother has said,"-and Mr. Atherton sighed,-"neither do I think it best for us to speak of that subject; but this I will say: you shall be happy, my daughter, if it lies within your father's power to make you so. This shall be my reply to Mr. Thornton's request, when it comes." 
               "When it comes! Ah!" thought Nettie, as day after day passed, and no word from the loved one,-"well might father say that! Can it be that in his prosperity he forgets? No; I'll not believe that;-any thing but that." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Wooing thee, I found thee of more value 
                        Than stamps in gold or sums in sealed bags; 
                        And 'tis the very riches of thyself 
                        That now I aim at." 
                     
                   
                
               IT had become necessary, quite, in this crisis of affairs, that Mr. Ashton should seek an interview with Miss Mowbray. For was it not by her request that Mr. Thornton wrote to him on behalf of Richard Morton? and did not her large remittances have to pass, by some pretext or other, through his hands into Richard's purse? Now, therefore, that morton domestic troubles threatened to destroy their business relations, it became his imperative duty to inform her of the state of things, and consult her wishes as to her secret benefactions for the future. It might be necessary to do all this-but was it necessary that the consultation should be lengthened into days, and then weeks,-business neglected-friends forgotten-all for young Morton's benefit? It was very evident from the mischievous glance of her hazel eyes, and the merry shake of her brown curls, that one, at least, at Woodbine Lodge, thought far otherwise. 
               "It is of no use for you to try to conceal it, Maggie," said she, stepping softly into her friend's chamber one night, and surprising her in tears; "you are happy, and yet miserable, and it's because you love Mr. Ashton. Now make me your confessor, and say, is it not so?" 
               "Oh, Lucille," cried she, passionately, "would that I had never seen him, or rather, that he had never seen me, in such false colors." 
               "There! now see what my selfishness has done," exclaimed Lucille, stamping her feet with vexation, "I have destroyed your happiness, just to secure my own." 
               "Oh no-no!" cried Maggie, wiping her eyes, and attempting to smile; "it is my own folly that causes these tears." 
               "Why your folly, Maggie?" 
               "That I should have so far forgotten my true position, as to think of him at all," was the blushing reply. 
               "Your true position is honorable, dear Maggie; as honorable as mine, and I should wish for no person's favor that did not think so," Lucille proudly answered. 
               "But the deception, Lucille;-how he will despise me for that!" 
               "What! when he-by whom you mean Mr. Ashton, I presume"-Lucille added mischievously-"when he knows that it was through your devotion to me-through the kindness of your heart that could not say nay to my caprices? then he is not worthy of your love, dear Maggie." 
               "But he must never know that; you must not be betrayed, through me," said Maggie resolutely. 
               "He shall know that," was Lucille's decided response, "and that too," she mentally added, "before I sleep this night." 
               "Now, dear Lucille, I beg-I entreat"-Maggie began. 
               "Beg and entreat nothing to-night," playfully interrupted Lucille, sealing her lips with a good-night kiss; "go to sleep now, and in the morning we can talk more rationally." 
               "Promise me, then, that you will see me first of all." 
               "In the morning? yes, that I will; so now to sleep and happy dreams. Good night." 
               Outside the door, Lucille's whole manner changed; her face alternately paled and flushed, her lips trembled with excessive agitation, and an expression of fear escaped her lips. But she was not one to yield when once she had resolved; so, with timid but firm steps she descended the stairs and entered the drawing-room where Mr. Ashton still lingered over his book. 
               "Ah! Miss Singleton," he exclaimed, laying aside the volume which, had she but glanced over his shoulder, she would have seen was upside down! "I thought you ladies had retired." 
               "We had, sir," she replied, "but I have returned that I may have an uninterrupted conversation with you, if you are not particularly occupied." 
               "I was merely whiling away the time," said he, pointing to the book, "till I should feel some inclination to sleep. I am very happy of your company." 
               "What I have to say to you, Mr. Ashton," she began in a clear, sweet voice, "will doubtless astonish you greatly. May I first beg the assurance that the secret I shall confide to you will be sacredly preserved?" 
               "Certainly, Miss Singleton, you can depend on my secrecy; I think you have had some evidence of that," he replied, not doubting she referred in some way to Richard Morton. 
               "That is sufficient," said she; "I think I can trust you. Now, before I proceed, will you allow me to ask you a few plain questions, such perhaps as you might think very presuming in me?" 
               "I can think of no questions that I should be unwilling to answer you; proceed, if you please." Mr. Ashton was becoming quite curious. 
               "Do you love my friend, Miss Mowbray?" The young girl bent her full gaze upon him. 
               "Well-really, Miss Singleton,"-the confused lawyer stammered. 
               "I do not ask you out of mere idle curiosity," said she, amused at his embarrassment, "nor because I wish to win a lover for one who has already more than she can dispose of; but it is necessary I should know, if possible, before I make you my confidant." 
                
               Mr. Ashton looked at the young, beautiful girl with surprise; "I cannot imagine," said he, "what connection my sentiments towards Miss Mowbray can have with what you are about to say; but I will answer your question honestly-I do not know." 
               "Not know whether you love her!" she exclaimed with astonishment, not unmingled with displeasure. 
               "Perhaps I can better tell you, if you will first explain to me what love is," said Mr. Ashton, smiling. 
               "Ah! now you are quizzing me!" 
               "No, I assure you I am not; I never believed there was such a thing, till"-he hesitated- 
               "Till when?" she asked archly. 
               "Till lately," he replied, coloring. 
               "My question is answered," said she, with a merry laugh; "now let me ask another; were she to lose her position,-to become a humble individual like myself, would it alter your sentiments towards her?" 
               "I cannot divine your object in questioning me thus," said Mr. Ashton, "but I am persuaded it is no unkind one, and therefore I will speak frankly. If to live in the presence of one, as in some higher, purer atmosphere-to feel no joy save in that presence, be love, then do I love Miss Mowbray. But her position is one that I would never seek to change. Were it humble as you say your own is, a blissful dream might be mine." 
               "Then my selfish folly may yet be forgiven," Lucille exclaimed with glistening eyes. 
                
               "What do you mean, Miss Singleton? you are a perfect enigma to-night." 
               "Listen, and I will tell you what I mean," said she, while a beautiful glow overspread her cheek. "She whom you love is even more worthy than you dream; for with pure unselfishness, she has not hesitated to sacrifice her own happiness for her capricious friend. When I tell you that, at my earnest entreaty, she assumed a character distasteful to her, simply that I might be benefited; that she still retains the same self-denying position for my sake, turning a deaf ear to all her own heart-pleadings; and that that position is one you have just said you would not seek to change; you will not wonder that I revere her; or that I could not forbear making this revelation to you. Brought up in luxury, surrounded by friends who knew the exact value of my fortune, I sickened of the adulation paid the heiress of Mowbray Hall. Coming among strangers, I was seized with an irresistible desire to be known and valued without the powerful auxiliary of gold; so I persuaded Maggie, my ever faithful friend and foster-sister, to aid me, by exchanging positions." 
               "Stay," cried Mr. Ashton, interrupting her, "do I understand you aright? are you the heiress?" 
               "Yes," she replied, smiling; "I am Lucille Mowbray." 
               "And she?" pointing up- 
               "Is Margaret Singleton,-more worthy than if the world could not contain her possessions." 
               "Aye, and a thousand times more dear to me," Mr. Ashton added, betrayed by his surprise into this confession. 
               "You will understand now, why I thought it right to make you a confidant of our secret," said Lucille, with an approving smile; "Maggie would never consent, so I have taken the responsibility myself." 
               "You have done right, and nobly too," said he: "to my latest day I shall bless you for this hour; but Miss Mow--" 
               "Call me Singleton still," Lucille playfully interrupted; "remember, you are pledged to secrecy." 
               "Miss Singleton then, though it will sit awkwardly on my tongue now. Richard Morton surely has known this?" 
               "No, indeed; and I would not have him upon any account." 
               "And he striving and plodding away, to be able to claim your hand!" Mr. Ashton spoke rather reproachfully. 
               "He will not strive or plod much longer," Lucille replied with a bright smile. "Mowbray Hall will need his oversight soon. But good night, Mr. Ashton," she added, looking at her watch, "our conference has lasted late." 
               "Heaven bless you, as I do, for it," he exclaimed, opening the door for her; "you have taught me a new lesson to-night." 
               A fresh page of the human heart had been laid before Mr. Ashton in the last hour. To see that young girl, beautiful, gifted and wealthy, cast aside all outward ward distinctions, that the world's friendship might be duly estimated, was indeed a "new lesson" for him,-one not soon to be forgotten. 
               "I was never before so fully impressed with the folly of judging ourselves or others by the world's favor," said he the next morning, after a long and particularly interesting conversation, in which a third party would have found themselves de trop.
                
               "No one can realize that more than I," his companion answered with a smile, "especially since, in my borrowed greatness, this same world has discovered virtues of which I could never boast." 
               "If no greater mistake had been made than in your case," he added, bowing, "the principle might be questioned; but look at your beautiful young friend, with a mind rich in culture, a heart whose purity is mirrored in her lovely face;-a haughty, supercilious stare from those infinitely beneath her, is all the recognition she often receives; while, if her wealth were but known, how would those same persons flock around her, with sickening, lavish praises! How would her 'auburn curls' be immortalized in verse,-sonnets innumerable dedicated to her 'soft, languishing eyes,' and her really exquisite style of dress become the reigning mode!" 
               "You are a genuine artist," replied the lady, laughing heartily; "for you have drawn a life-picture, and I have been the sitter! only, in place of the 'auburn tresses,' my enamored swains have poetized the 'glossy, raven braids,'-have gone into raptures about 'the glance of that dark, flashing eye.' I cannot express to you the deep loathing I have towards these mammon-worshippers. Thank God, there are some who 'detest heiresses,'" she added archly. 
               "Come, come," Mr. Ashton laughingly rejoined, "do not bring up my light words in judgment against me; it was the principle we have been speaking of that I detested, not certainly such an illustration as I have found here." 
               "Well turned, sir; your words are pardoned," said she, drawing up with mock dignity. 
               "Now, for the settlement of one question," he added earnestly; "and Lewis Ashton's happiness is no longer a matter of doubt or uncertainty." 
               "I must first consult Lucille," replied his companion, blushing. 
               "What! so soon as that! why, Thanksgiving comes in two months more," cried Lucille, with well affected surprise; "what impatient beings lovers are! Well, Mr. Ashton, if you expect to win my consent, you must promise me first, that, instead of losing this dear friend, I shall, by the arrangement, gain your excellent company at Mowbray Hall for the winter." 
               "At Mowbray Hall!" 
               "Yes; and you must furthermore promise to enter my service at once, and assist me in some plans which this foolish little head is projecting." 
               "I accept the conditions," said he, grasping her hand warmly. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "We sometimes do short hours, yea, minutes strike, 
                        Keen, blissful, bright, never to be forgotten." 
                     
                      
                        "Swell, swell my joys; and faint not to declare 
                        Yourselves as ample as your causes are." 
                     
                   
                
               A HAPPY group gathered around the cheerful hearth at Willow Glen. It had been a busy day, as were many preceding ones; for the "fatted calf" had been killed, and neighbors and friends bidden to a joyous feast on the morrow;-"For this my son was lost and is found,-therefore will I bless His glorious name who hath brought such joy to my soul." Such was the language and spirit with which Melville Thornton gloried over his new-found treasure. 
               This was indeed a labor of love to Charlotte Thornton's benevolent heart; for in their rejoicings they had not forgotten the poor and needy. Whose feet trod on soft-carpeted floors, or whose robes were of finest texture, entered not their thoughts, as from house to house their glad summons went forth, bidding all come and join in their thank-offering. 
                
               Now, at night-fall, when all things were ready for the feast, they gathered, a happy family group, around their fireside. Uncle Joseph was there, with his genial, heart-warming face;-the loving, motherly Henrietta;-"Aunt Lottie," reflecting her own serene and joyful spirit;-Melville Thornton, with heart attuned to praise; and Lonny, almost trembling for the reality of his bliss;-all whom their hearts craved were there, save two; and they,-but we will not anticipate. 
               "It is strange what keeps Mark," said Uncle Joseph, breaking the pleasant, dreamy silence into which they had fallen. 
               "I was just thinking of him, and Nettie too," added Mr. Thornton; "I cannot give up the hope of seeing them yet." 
               "Nor I," said Aunt Lottie; "and yet it does seem strange that they neither come nor write." 
               "Nettie has answered but one of my letters," remarked Lonny. 
               "And Mark none of mine, though I have repeatedly written," added Mr. Thornton. 
               "I guess there's trouble in the camp again," said Uncle Joseph, laughing; "perhaps his sweet-tempered wife has shut them both up this time." 
               "Mark knows how anxious we are to have both of our children to the feast to-morrow:"-Aunt Lottie cast a loving glance upon Lonny as she said this. 
               "Yes, and he is not one to submit to his wife's dictation in such a case," Mr. Thornton replied; "so I still think they will be here, and make their own explanation." 
               "Well, I'm sure I hope they will, for Lonny's sake," Henrietta Atherton earnestly added; for she had seen the "little cloud, no bigger than a man's hand," just beginning to cast its shadow upon her loved child. 
               A glorious October sun gilded the sky, making more resplendent the gorgeous livery of the autumn-dyed trees; the green willows waved and nodded a respectful salutation to his golden majesty; the little stream which gurgled its way through the meadow, leaped joyously forth at the new dawning light; all nature sprang into life, and, donning its gay, holiday attire, poured forth a morning chorus of worship to its Creator and Beautifier. Willow Glen, bathed in this glowing sea of light, awoke from its sleep of innocence and peace; away on the bright wings of the morning flew its nightly guardians, while on each shining ray, as in golden chariots, myriads of unbidden guests descended to this, their loved haunt; around, on every side, their unseen hands scattered fragrant offerings; into its open portals they glided-these ministering spirits-these angel-watchers around God's chosen ones. 
               With the earliest dawn, Charlotte Thornton softly stole to the bedside of her child-hers doubly now, and, bending low over his unconscious face, breathed a mother's blessing there-a blessing caught up in gentle strains, till in heaven's high arches, loud and sweet, the notes resounded. Then, with light footsteps, she descended to her grateful task, leaving those warm breathings, like a halo of brightness, encircling the sleeper's head. 
               Out upon the green lawn,-for the air was soft and balmy,-beneath the wide-spreading trees, whose branches formed a vaulted roof above them,-they spread the hospitable board. In Nature's temple, with her living baptism, would the father consecrate his gift. Lonny stood proudly at that father's side. With joy he claimed his noble birthright; with gratitude unutterable he laid down his burden. But more than joy, pride, or gratitude mingled in his deep, reverential love for those whose hearts had adopted him in his isolation. Stronger even than by the ties of blood was he bound to them,-the saviors of his youth and manhood. Melville Thornton had gained a son; the desire of Lonny's heart had been granted; but their gain had not been Joseph Atherton's loss. 
               But, while we are thus digressing, the happy villagers have gathered in merry groups over the beautiful grounds. Here and there a rustling silk retreats disdainfully from its humble neighbor; now and then a sidelong glance, a contemptuous shrug, or low, scornful exclamation, betrays an uncongenial presence there. But not long can pride or haughtiness linger in such an atmosphere;-love, all-glowing love has spread the thankful feast; and to its sweet influence they must yield, or coldly turn away. 
               "Look around," said Melville Thornton to Mr. Flint, who sat at his right hand; "look around this table, and tell me whose is the happiest heart here to-day." 
               "That would be a difficult task," Mr. Flint replied; "if the face is an index of the heart, I should say they were equally so; for all seem full of smiles." 
               "And yet," resumed Mr. Thornton, "in each of these hearts lies some hidden sorrow. What a glorious profession is yours, sir, that can reach these sorrows with a healing balm." 
               "Yes; but my profession has its trials, as well as others," sighed Mr. Flint. 
               "I do not doubt it; but do not its joys more than counterbalance the trials?" 
               "Sometimes; but it is a very laborious life," Mr. Flint replied. 
               "That isn't the way my minister talks," said Uncle Joseph, who had been silently listening; "Mr. Goodman says he wouldn't exchange situations with the richest man on earth." 
               "Certainly not," rejoined Mr. Flint; "for our reward pertaineth not to earth." 
               "Humph! where then?" 
               Mr. Flint shrugged his shoulders; he knew his tormentor was near;-"Ah, Miss Page, are you here?" said he; "this is a most delightful occasion, isn't it?" 
               "Yes, it is a happy one, and those who made it deserve to be happy too," she replied with a grateful glance at Mr. Thornton;-"but, Mr. Flint, don't you think it would have been better to send the money to that great-what d'ye call it society, than to spend it in feeding these poor critters? it may encourage idleness, you know," she added with a knowing wink. 
               "Mr. Thornton's property is at his own disposal," replied Mr. Flint, reprovingly; "for my part, I think he is celebrating his son's return in a most befitting manner." 
               "My wife would scarcely agree with the first part of your remark," said Mr. Thornton; "indeed, I suspect she is at this moment giving it a practical refutation," he added, pointing smilingly to a group from whom Charlotte Thornton had just turned, and whose happy faces, as they looked significantly into each other's hands, showed that something very welcome had found its way thither. 
               "That's what I call preaching a reg'lar sermon," said Miss Priscilla; "such a one as poor folks can understand. What do you say, Mr. Flint?" 
               "Mrs. Thornton is very benevolent, certainly," he replied; "I only hope those poor people will not take advantage of her kindness." 
               "Take advantage of it!" exclaimed Miss Priscilla, "yes, they will; they'll take the advantage of having better homes, better clothes, "and better hearts too." 
               "Bravo!" cried Uncle Joseph; "those always follow in Lottie's steps, don't they, Lonny?" 
               "I can most emphatically testify to the first two," Lonny replied with feeling; "and, as to the third, the heart must be sadly depraved that could resist her gentle influence." 
                
               "I always like to hear a son speak well of his mother," said Mr. Flint, approvingly. 
               "My heart blessed her, sir, ere I could claim such dear relationship," Lonny replied; "she has been even more than a mother to me." 
               "And Richard Morton has been more than a brother," added a low voice behind him. 
               "You say truly, sir," he replied, turning to Mr. Ashton, just as that gentleman, with Richard and the young ladies approached; "I, who in my childhood could lay claim to no kith or kin-no friend on earth-can to-day proudly clasp the hand of a noble brother,-one in spirit if not in name,-can point with honor to friends, such as the world boasts but few; above all, I can stand here in the glory and pride of a father's untarnished name, and claim as my mother one whose goodness and purity of heart scarce pertain to mortals." 
               "Enthusiastic!" said Mr. Ashton in a low voice to the ladies; "but if rumor be true, none too much so." 
               "Not one whit," Miss Mowbray replied with animation; "Mrs. Thornton's equal cannot be found-unless"-she hesitated, glancing at her friend. 
               "Make no exceptions in my favor if you please," laughingly rejoined the other; "Mrs. Thornton is without a compeer." 
               Richard Morton could not interpret the meaning look with which Mr. Ashton regarded her, as he replied,-"there are some deeds which outshine even hers,"-or the trembling of the arm which rested within his. 
                
               Without apparently noticing them, he said, turning to Miss Mowbray,-"Why is not Nettie Atherton here? she ought surely to share in the congratulations today." 
               "I have been asking myself the same question," Miss Mowbray replied; "let us refer to Mr. Thornton for an explanation." 
               "He is as much at a loss to account for it as yourself," said Mr. Thornton's pleasant voice, coming up at that moment; "it is the only alloy in our happiness to-day." 
               "You apprised her, of course?" 
               "Most certainly; Lonny would have gone for her in person, but I prevented it; I wished her parents to accompany her." 
               "What can be their reason for not doing so?" 
               "I do not know; I cannot imagine;"-Mr. Thornton's brow grew troubled. 
               "Your letter may not have reached them." 
               "Letter! we have written three or four at least." 
               "And no reply?" 
               "None." 
               "Then it is really inexplicable,-and Nettie so fond of him too?" 
               "Nettie is not in fault, I am persuaded; but come," Mr. Thornton added, clearing his brow; "we must not darken a day like this by any imaginary clouds. Will you go with me while I introduce to you some new faces-such as you will not be likely to see at Woodbine Lodge?" 
                
               "Look around," he continued, pausing in their walk down the green lawn, to listen to the hum of happy voices, bursting forth here and there into joyful merriment; "ought not we who have been intrusted with the means of producing so much enjoyment, to be doubly grateful-doubly faithful?" 
               A painful flush crossed Miss Mowbray's brow as she replied,-"Yes, surely, wealth was never bestowed for naught." 
               "Your life as well as your lips testify to that," said he, bowing; "now let us mingle with some whom I would commend especially to your charities." 
               "Perhaps you would consent to be my almoner," she replied, as they continued their walk; "we shall leave so shortly, it will scarce repay the trouble of forming new acquaintances." 
               "Leave so shortly! what do you mean?" 
               "That we shall spend the winter at Mowbray Hall." 
               "Are you in earnest?" he exclaimed with surprise; "I thought-I hoped the attractions here were becoming so increasingly great, that we should retain you permanently,"-Mr. Thornton's eye glanced meaningly towards Mr. Ashton as he spoke. 
               "Even then we must return thither for a time," she replied with a blush. 
               "But you will at least promise that it shall be only for a time,-that Woodbine Lodge shall not long be deserted." 
               "We cannot promise any thing with certainty now; but I assure you, Mr. Thornton, both my friend and myself look upon our residence here as the happiest part of our lives." 
               "She goes with you, of course?" 
               "Certainly; we have never been separated since we were children." 
               "What will Richard Morton do?" 
               "I trust he will do as she wishes-go with us." 
               "What! will they marry so soon? I thought he had resolved to devote himself to the retrieval of his father's misfortunes." 
               "So he has, but that may not be the herculean task he anticipates." 
               "Ah! Miss Mowbray, I understand you; you would do a noble deed. But are you aware of the extent of Judge Morton's indebtedness?" 
               "Richard has told us," she replied, the troubled look returning to her face; "but, indeed, Mr. Thornton, your commendations are unworthily bestowed,-they pain me, because I do not deserve them." 
               "Pardon my intrusion, sir," said a gentleman coming up at that moment, "but the company are waiting your response to a sentiment just offered." 
               "A sentiment! what is it, Mr. Colton?" 
               "In honor of yourself and the day, sir; see with what eager expectation they are gathering to hear you." 
               "I was unprepared for this," said Mr. Thornton, stepping into the midst of his guests, as his name was loudly called, "but wait one moment," he added, as he retreated towards the house, "and I will present you a sentiment worthy the occasion." 
                
               "A MOTHER'S LEGACY!" said he, holding before them the shining gift; "what more appropriate offering could I bring you to-day than this? A mother's legacy!-around this dwelling it has cast its golden halo; within its walls it has brought such riches as the world dreams not of-to me the incomparable wife, the noble son." 
               A low, sighing murmur, echoing through the tinted foliage above, alone broke the stillness in which his words ceased. Softly a bright sunbeam stole towards the sacred relic, still suspended in his hands, till its radiant light glowed with living fire those words of immortal worth. Entranced they gazed, as though some new inspiration had broken upon them,-then with one loud, long applause, went up the heart's response to the glorious "legacy." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Who to the unfortunate will kind appear? 
                        The wretched are unwelcome ev'ry where." 
                     
                      
                        "It may be time has good in store for me; 
                        It may be that my heart will find relief 
                        From sources now unknown." 
                     
                   
                
               INTO a plain, but comfortably furnished apartment, we would glance for a moment, as a familiar face greets our sight. The surroundings are not those of his former affluent home; the carpet is of coarser texture than even his servants used; the wooden chairs, pine table, unvarnished uncurtained bed, such as he had seen among his poor tenants, but never dreamed of inheriting himself. Yet there is a light upon Judge Morton's face-a glow in his eye, which speaks more joy than gilded homes or princely revenues could bring. He is pale, for the seeds of disease took deep root during his prison life, and are now spreading their blight through his frame; but still he labors on with firm and steady purpose; he will not falter for bodily weakness, while his son is sacrificing life and happiness for him. Three rooms comprise their whole establishment; for though the firm of "Morton and Son" fast gains in public favor and patronage, every cent which is not demanded by their necessities, is scrupulously applied to one object-a long, and seemingly hopeless task! but Richard will not suffer himself to look despondingly into the future, while obeying the noble promptings of duty and affection. 
               Yet it must be confessed, something very like a sigh escaped him, as he entered his humble home, on his return from Woodbine Lodge and the festivities at Willow Glen. So strikingly did the contrast between the happiness he had left and the duties which awaited him here, force itself upon him, that for a moment, his heart sank within him; but it was only for a moment,-his father's glad welcome, so different from the cold tones of former years, restored the cheerful smile to his face, and peace to his heart. 
               "Back again, according to promise," exclaimed the judge delightedly; "I feared you would be tempted to stay longer than you said, Richard." 
               "No, father; business is the end and aim of my life now; where is mother?" 
               "She is lying down in your room. Richard, this life is killing her." 
               "And you too, father," said the young man sadly, as he gazed into his pale face; "would that I were able to save you both from such trials." 
               "Who has prevented you from being able?" replied his father with emotion; "I, Richard,-I who should have gloried in you,-who should have acknowledged the goodness I could not imitate,-who should-" 
               "Nay, nay, father; do not reproach yourself. What sacrifice can be too great to purchase the inward joy you now possess?" 
               "But I had no right to sacrifice you,-to destroy all your earthly hopes." 
               "They are not destroyed, father;"-a soft smile played over Richard's face as he spoke,-"Maggie will be mine yet." 
               "But not for years to come,-not till you have slaved yourself to death to save your father's honor." 
               "Not quite to death, father; her prophecy is still too fresh in my mind to allow such a supposition." 
               "Her prophecy! what was that?" 
               "That 'ere a twelvemonth's sun shall wane, a happy home, a loving bride, a father's free and honored name, a fortune such as miser's crave,' shall all be mine," said Richard, laughingly. 
               "Poor girl! how little she knows about such things!" his father replied with a sad smile; "fortunes are not made in one year, especially if there be a wasted one to restore." 
               "I hope you do not think I received her words literally," said Richard; "yet there is comfort in the spirit of them." 
               "So there is, and I should like to tell her so for your sake." 
                
               "Would you, father? would you really like to see Maggie?" Richard eagerly cried. 
               "Better, perhaps, than she would like to see me," said the judge, with feeling; "she can never forget the injustice I have done her and you, my son." 
               "Do not speak of that now, father; Maggie longs to see and comfort you. I will write to her this very night, if you consent." 
               "What! in this place?" 
               "Yes, here; believe me, sir, this home would seem a palace with your blessing on our plighted love." 
               "Is it so, my son? do you thus crave a blessing from the father who has so deeply injured you? Then it shall be so. She shall see me in my humiliation; she, whom I in my pride despised, shall see me penitent before her." 
               "You mistake Maggie-you mistake me, father. These are not your days of humiliation; they are the proudest of your life." 
               "Why, Richard! when did you come?" Mrs. Morton languidly exclaimed, entering the room just then. 
               "About an hour since; you were taking your rest, and so I would not disturb you. Are you ill, mother?" 
               "No more than usual," she sighed; "but tell me about your visit; I like to hear something of the world we used to live in." 
               "And the world you sigh for now," added Richard sadly. 
               "You cannot blame me for that," said she; "I was very happy till you left us, and our misfortunes came." 
                
               Richard might have retorted with truth, that the latter affected her far more strongly than his absence; but his was the office of comforter. Taking her hand with respectful tenderness, he said soothingly, "I know what you must have suffered-what you are still suffering; I would that I had the power of restoring you to affluence; but above all, dear mother, do I long to see you seeking your happiness from a source that can never fail you." 
               "You saw Miss Mowbray, of course?" said Mrs. Morton, after a moment's silence. 
               "Yes, and both she and Miss Singleton sent many affectionate remembrances to you. I have a little parcel in my valise, containing presents, I believe." 
               "Humph! she considers us objects of charity, no doubt." 
               "This does not look like it, certainly," said Richard, unrolling the parcel, and displaying from thence a tiny watch of exquisite workmanship, with its rich appendages; "this is a gift fit for any lady in the land." 
               "Why did you suffer her to send me such a present?" Mrs. Morton asked, half-vexed, half-delighted. 
               "I assure you, mother, I did not know the contents of the bundle; she gave it to me just as I was leaving." 
               "I cannot accept it; and if I did, of what use would it be to me here?" said Mrs. Morton, unfolding the little note which accompanied it. 
               "Read it aloud," said the judge. 
               "Miss Mowbray begs the acceptance of her gift, and only awaits Mrs. Morton's pleasure, to assure her in person of the undiminished friendship and esteem of her former guest." 
               "A pretty place this would be to receive her!" Mrs. Morton exclaimed, looking around as she concluded. 
               "I do not see how you can do otherwise without being rude," her husband replied. 
               "Do otherwise!" she repeated; "do you suppose I will consent to have her look upon our degradation? This very gift shows that she does not know the extent of it." 
               "No, she does not know of degradation," exclaimed Richard; "for there is none here; but she does know how nobly you are struggling with adverse tides, and she honors you for it,-honors you more than when you were surrounded with luxury and friends." 
               "I cannot see her; return this gift, and tell her so, Richard." 
               "No, mother; for my sake, I entreat you to receive her here, and with her, one who asks a parent's blessing from you. Three months hence they will return to England. Father-mother! can you refuse my only request-that, you bless your children ere we part!" 
               "Going away did you say!-Miss Singleton going!" exclaimed the judge, wiping his eye. 
               "Yes, Maggie returns with Miss Mowbray to her father's halls: I have no home to offer her now, you know." 
               "No home, because your father's folly and madness drove you from it. Richard, why do you not curse me? Why ask a blessing upon hopes that I have cruelly blasted!"-Judge Morton's whole frame shook with emotion as he spoke. 
               "Father," said Richard, with a calm voice but quivering lip,-"could I recall the past six months, and be placed where I then was, with the choice before me, to see you moving on as in your prosperous days, or by the sacrifice of my heart's dearest hopes to bring to your soul the light that now dwells there, think you I would hesitate one moment? No, father; 'tis Heaven's own work; it will bring its recompense at last." 
               "And this is the son that we despised!" almost groaned the judge. "Wife, tell him, as I do, that for his heart's choice our warmest blessing waits. Bring her to us, my son." 
               It was the same apartment-the same coarse, dull-hued carpet-the plain, rude furniture that told of struggling poverty;-and yet the soft gleam which the cheerful fire threw across the room in that twilight, disclosed a group of happy faces, which many a wealthy fireside might envy. Love's magic wand had transformed the dull abode-the cheerless home, into almost paradisiacal beauty;-love, which crept softly from the maiden's dark eye to the father's heart,-which crushed out pride and awoke a latent tenderness in the mother's breast,-such love did Richard Morton's betrothed bring to his humble home. She came with a gentle, 
                  hopeful smile, that sent gladness into their hearts-they knew not why. She beautified with her presence the lowly dwelling, till even Mrs. Morton wondered it had ever seemed cheerless to her;-with her own fair hands she shared the labors they would have concealed from her. 
               No thoughts of "humiliation" or "degradation" entered the little circle around that twilight hearth. Judge Morton could not have received more deferential attention,-his wife more grateful homage, had he lounged on richest damask, instead of that bare, uncushioned chair; or her plain, simple garments been exchanged for jewelled robes. Guests too were there, to whom the world bowed low; but here no fellowship with that false world was found. New thoughts, new views, new feelings, filled Judge Morton's mind, as he sat, silently contemplating the scene. Suddenly a soft hand was laid upon his arm;-"You are sad to-night, sir," said a sweet voice beside him. 
               "Not sad, Maggie," he tenderly replied; "but full of wonder, joy, and gratitude;"-then, rousing himself, he clasped her hand, exclaiming earnestly,-"Must you leave us to-morrow? can you not remain a little longer?" 
               It was well her face was but imperfectly revealed in that glimmering fire-light; else the bright smile which illumined it, and the play of joy around her mouth, might have told a tale at variance with her words. 
               "Indeed, it is impossible, sir," said she; "Miss Mowbray needs my services more than ever now." 
                
               "Miss Mowbray surely would not refuse a request in which we all so heartily join," Mrs. Morton said, with an air of earnestness which showed her sincerity. 
               Tears trembled in the maiden's eyes as she replied,-"I shall not give her the opportunity, though I am deeply grateful for your kind invitation,-more grateful than you can well imagine." 
               "I see the reputation I am likely to gain by taking my friend from you," said Miss Mowbray in a playful tone; "and yet her presence is so necessary to me, I cannot dispense with it, even to prove my unselfishness." 
               "You see what you are coming to, Mr. Ashton," cried the judge, laughing. 
               "Yes," sighed that gentleman; "but I shall call for Richard's help in such a case." 
               "I will bring lights," said Richard, leaving the room to conceal his emotion. 
               Quickly sped the precious moments that drew evening to its close, and the hour of separation nigh. Now the father felt the sacrifice;-now, too late, he saw the worth for which his son had spurned his patrimony;-now he had given millions, were they his, to imprint on that fair brow a father's kiss,-to draw these children to his heart, and bid them evermore live in each other's smile. In all Judge Morton's misfortunes, a more bitter pang had never touched his heart, than that with which he gazed upon his son's unspoken agony, as, taking Maggie's hand in his, Richard bent before his father for a blessing, "ere they parted, perhaps for ever." 
               Laying one trembling hand on her soft curls, while from her upturned eye he drank a holy light, with the other he clasped their joined hands, and cried with choking voice:- 
               "My son,-my daughter, the blessing of an unworthy father,-of one whose blindness and folly have caused you this bitter separation,-of one who now prays your forgiveness, as from a higher source he has thus prayed,-the blessing of one whom you have led into a heavenly path, whose riches, exceeding earth's, you pointed out;-that blessing, thrice repeated, rest upon you now and for ever." 
               Surpassingly sweet,-gloriously beautiful was the soul-lit smile which broke over Maggie's features. 
               "Gained at last," her heart said. 
               "We shall meet again," her lips pronounced with prophetic joy. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Revenge, at first though sweet, 
                           Bitter ere long, back on itself recoils." 
                        
                      
                     MILTON. 
                   
                
               "THERE'S your odious brother, Mr. Atherton, coming up the walk." 
               "Bless me! that's Joseph,-so it is;"-Mr. Atherton caught up his hat and ran out delightedly. 
               The lady's thin lips were firmly set as her husband returned, ushering in his brother. But no pleasant, familiar kiss called up her haughty blood,-no rough but kindly greeting awoke her slumbering sneer. For once, Uncle Joseph was as cold as herself;-for the first time, Mark saw a cloud on his brother's face. 
               "Now explain yourself, Joe," said he, as quick as they were seated; "what does all this mean?" 
               "Explain yourself rather," said Uncle Joseph, bluntly; "do you suppose I can stand it to see my boy-(mine, if he has got a father and mother) abused?" 
               "Abused!-your boy!"-Mark replied; "what do you mean, Joe?" 
                
               "Why, haven't you abused Lonny and the whole of us? that's what I mean," Uncle Joseph answered, with vexation. 
               "How in the world have we abused you?" asked Mark, profoundly astonished. 
               "Perhaps you don't call it abuse, to suffer a young man like Lonny to break his heart for one kind word from the girl he loves;-perhaps you don't call it abuse, to let your own sister's letters lie unanswered, when you know how much happiness you are thus destroying; perhaps you don't call such neglect abuse; but I do-downright, unpardonable sin." Uncle Joseph drew in his breath as he ceased. 
               "Joe, for heaven's sake, tell me what you mean!" cried Mark, excitedly; "I have received no letters; I have neglected no one, that I know of; least of all, my sister." 
               "Not received any letters! Didn't you get the one Lottie's husband wrote you, asking for Nettie? Didn't you get hers, and his, and Lonny's, wanting you all to come to the feast, and ever so many more, asking what you meant by not writing!" Uncle Joseph exclaimed. 
               "Stop one moment, Joe; do you mean to say that such letters have been written to us?" 
               "Yes, I do mean to say so; and a pretty commotion there is because you don't answer them. Lonny is down at the mouth as bad as he was before he found his father; and Lottie and her husband are worrying their lives out about it. I couldn't stand it any longer; so I've come to call you to an account, Mark." 
                
               "Well you might, Joe, if I had done what you say; but, to tell you the truth, I have felt almost hurt that Lottie seemed to forget me in her prosperity; and especially that Lonny did not come, that Nettie might share his happiness." 
               "There! what a wretch I was, to talk to you so, Mark! give me your hand; I might have known you better." Tears started in Joseph Atherton's eyes as he warmly grasped his brother's hand. 
               "But what the deuce has got those letters?" he added, after a moment's pause. 
               "That is very mysterious," Mark replied; "I will institute inquiries at once; there's some mischief at the bottom, I fear." 
               "Mischief! you may be sure of that," said Uncle Joseph; "but I pity the one who's found in it; that's all." 
               "What makes you look so pale, Louisa?" he asked, as Mark, in his haste to fathom the mystery, went off and left him alone with Mrs. Atherton. 
               "I am not aware that I look unusually so," she coldly replied, turning her face away from his gaze. 
               "I noticed you turned very white when I spoke of those letters just now. By the way, what do you think of that matter?" 
               "I have my own affairs to attend to;-I do not think any thing about it." 
               "I should think you would call that one of your own affairs, where Nettie is so deeply concerned." 
                
               "Nettie has no concern in any thing they may say or write," said Mrs. Atherton, haughtily. 
               "I guess you're mistaken there, Louisa; but where is the little puss?" 
               "She is up stairs, writing to Mr. Selwyn, her future husband." 
               "Her future husband, is he! So you are not going to let her have my boy, eh?" 
               "I am not apt to change my decisions, sir; they were known some time ago." 
               "But supposing she would rather marry Lonny, after all?" 
               "Mr. Atherton," said the lady, turning her flashing eye upon him, "I do not choose to be insulted in my own house; I will thank you to cease your remarks about my daughter." 
               "Oh fie, Louisa! 'twould be all lost trouble for you to get vexed with me; I'm nothing but a great rough fellow, you know," Joseph replied, with the most provoking good nature; "with your leave I will call for Nettie," he added, pulling the bell before she could prevent him. 
               "Oh, Uncle Joseph! I am so happy to see you," cried the beautiful girl, coming in with joyful haste to greet him. 
               "There, I couldn't have scolded you if you had treated Lonny as bad as we thought," said he, giving her a most affectionate kiss. 
               "Who says I have treated Lonny unkindly?" she asked, with surprise. 
                
               "Nobody now; but he felt very bad because you didn't answer his letters." 
               "He hasn't written to me, uncle," said Nettie, the tears springing to her eyes. 
               "Yes, he has, ever so many times, and most broke his heart every time the mail came in, because he didn't get any answer." 
               "Is that so, Uncle Joseph?" she cried; "and I, grieving all the while at Lonny's neglect! where are those letters?" 
               "That's more than we can tell," said he; "your father has gone out to see about it; but I should rather lose a thousand letters, than find my sweet Nettie here false to Lonny." 
               "Mr. Atherton, I must remind you that such language to a young lady on the eve of marriage, is, to say the least, highly improper, and cannot be allowed in this house. Nettie, have you no sense of shame about you?" Mrs. Atherton spoke sharply. 
               Nettie hesitated a moment, and then very mildly replied,- 
               "I am not on the eve of marriage, mother; but if I were it would be with Lonny-no one else." 
               "Girl! you drive me distracted; leave the room instantly." 
               The entrance of Mark Atherton prevented the enforcement of her mother's stern command, and Nettie remained,-her hand still resting in Uncle Joseph's. 
               "It is very strange," said Mark, with a frown; "the post-boy says he has brought all our letters regularly to the house, and that he has often observed that postmark among them; I must question the servants." 
               "You need not trouble yourself to do that," said Mrs. Atherton, drawing herself up with a defiant glance, while her face alternately paled and flushed; "our servants know nothing of the matter." 
               "Louisa! Oh, my God!" her husband groaned, sinking into a chair and covering his face, as the terrible suspicion flashed into his mind. 
               "Well, what have you to say, sir?" she coldly asked. 
               No reply-none could have spoken at that moment; but Nettie sprang to her father's side and laid her head upon his shoulder with a convulsive sob. 
               "Quite dramatic!" sneered the heartless woman; "it is a pity you are not on the stage, Nettie." 
               "Woman, cease;"-thundered Mark, roused by her words to the indignation she merited. 
               "When I please, sir," she replied, trembling with passion; "Nettie, retire to your room." 
               "Perhaps you had better, my child," said her father, in answer to Nettie's questioning look; "it is too dreadful for you here." 
               "But, father, I am a child no longer," Nettie pleaded; "I would much rather remain with you." 
               "Then stay." 
               "And I bid you go!"-Mrs. Atherton laid her hand roughly upon Nettie's shoulder as she spoke. 
               "Hands off there," shouted Uncle Joseph, unable to contain himself longer; "you'd better attend to your letter-stealing, and let her alone." 
                
               "Mr. Atherton, I command you to turn this fellow from your house instantly," said she, turning to her husband. 
               "Not just yet," Uncle Joseph rejoined; "I shall be glad enough to go pretty soon, but I've got something to say to you first." 
               "I will not listen to you." 
               "Then your husband will, and that'll do just as well; it is time you were taken care of." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "What do I mean? I mean it is time the law put you where you ought to have been long ago." 
               "The law!" repeated Mrs. Atherton, her face becoming livid at such a possible intimation. 
               "Yes, the law, Mrs. Mark Atherton;"-Uncle Joseph was growing eloquent in his vexation-"do you suppose there is no punishment for crimes like yours?" 
               "Prove your words, if you would talk of crimes," she replied, recovering herself. 
               "Your face is all the proof I want," said Uncle Joseph; "it showed just as plainly that you stole those letters, as though you'd said so; I saw it the minute I spoke of them." 
               "Louisa!" cried her husband, "if I could believe you guilty of any thing so inexpressibly mean-so degrading,-so treacherous to your husband and child-" 
               "Go on," said she insultingly, as he paused; "what would you do?" 
               "I would leave you for ever;-so help me God!" Mark Atherton replied, in a voice of terrible earnestness. 
               It was her turn to cower now,-to shrink back, guilty thing that she was-into her chair; to hide her face from the stern, unrelenting gaze of her husband. She felt that the crisis had come-that her sin had overtaken her at last. 
               "Leave us alone," said Mark, gently motioning his brother and daughter to retire. 
               What passed between the husband and wife in that long, and, to those who waited anxiously without, almost interminable hour, none ever knew. At its close Mark Atherton came forth pale and haggard, as though life's surges had swept over his soul, leaving nought but an arid desert there. 
               "You can take Nettie with you, Joseph," he said in a low voice; "she may remain at Willow Glen till I send for her." 
               "I cannot leave you now, father," Nettie replied, throwing her arms around his neck; "let me stay and comfort you." 
               "It is best so, my daughter," he tenderly replied; "you shall soon return to me." 
               "And mother?" Nettie asked, pointing to the door. 
               "Alas! my child, you have a mother no longer, nor I a wife," Mr. Atherton replied sadly; "she has chosen her own way,-let her abide by it. God pity and forgive her, as I do." 
               "No mother!" thought Nettie, as she rode away with Uncle Joseph; "for me she never had a mother's tenderness. No mother?" she repeated as her thoughts flew to the end of her journey; "was ever mother more beloved and honored-more precious to the heart of a child, than Aunt Lottie-dear, dear Aunt Lottie is to me?" 
               "I've brought you an answer, Lonny," joyfully shouted Uncle Joseph, as they alighted at Willow Glen; "I told you 'twas none of Nettie's fault, and here she is to tell you so too. But it's been a terrible business though," he added, going in; "the old Jezebel is routed at last." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "This accident and flood of fortune 
                        So far exceed all instance, all discourse, 
                        That I am ready to distrust mine eyes, 
                        And wrangle with my reason, that persuades me 
                        To any other trust." 
                     
                   
                
               A HORSE and rider rapidly advanced towards Woodbine Lodge. One who had been watching the gorgeous autumnal sunset from her window, saw their approach, and with a joyous smile ran to greet the welcome visitor. 
               "What has brought you so soon, Richard?" she exclaimed; "you wrote that you should not be here till next week." 
               "Would it have pleased you better had I waited till then," he playfully asked, reading his answer in her sparkling eye. 
               "You know as well as I," she replied; "but I thought you had some important business requiring your attention this week." 
               "So I had; but something more important has since occurred. Where is Miss Mowbray? I must see her at once." 
                
               "So it is her for whom your visit is intended, is it?" the young lady half pouted as she rang the bell; "pray what can you have to say to her of so much importance? shall I retire?" she asked as Miss Mowbray appeared. 
               "No, miss jealousy," said he, laughing; "remain where you are; I cannot spare you from my sight." 
               "Ah! Mr. Morton," said Miss Mowbray, cordially greeting him; "I suspect the servant made a mistake; she told me a gentleman waited here to see me." 
               "No mistake at all," cried Maggie; "Richard inquired for you almost the first thing after he came." 
               "And thereby gained just the least bit of a reproach," he added with a smile. "But, Miss Mowbray, I did come to see you;-to restore this gift, which I cannot under any circumstances accept, noble and munificent as it is." 
               "This gift!"-she repeated, unfolding the paper he handed her, and displaying several bank bills of a large amount; "I do not comprehend you, Mr. Morton." 
               "Did you not convey, or cause to be conveyed, to me that money-just the amount of my father's indebtedness?" Richard asked, scrutinizing her face closely as he spoke. 
               "Never, Mr. Morton, though it would give me great pleasure to say otherwise," she replied unfalteringly. 
               "Then the mystery is great indeed," said he; "I thought it could come from no other source." 
               "Is it possible that such a sum has been sent you? and the giver unknown!" said Maggie; "then it is some good fairy's gift, you may depend. How and when did you receive it?" 
                
               "Night before last, as I was returning home from the office, about dusk, a man, whose face and form were concealed by a large cloak and slouched hat, accosted me at the corner of a street, and inquired if my name was Morton-Richard Morton, Jun. On my replying in the affirmative, he drew from his pocket a small parcel, which he gave me without saying a word, and was out of my sight in an instant. Supposing it might be something relating to a law-case now pending, I did not open the packet till after supper, when father and I sat down to examine its contents. Judge of our astonishment when these bills met our sight, with no word-no intimation whence they came!" 
               "What a romantic affair!" exclaimed Maggie, clapping her hands. 
               "Romantic surely!" said Miss Mowbray; "but how came you to connect me with it, Mr. Morton?" 
               "We both pronounced it your work at once; partly because it is so like you; and then our few friends are not wealthy, you know." 
               "You would not have accepted it from me, then?" 
               "I could not, Miss Mowbray; I could not rest under such an obligation to any one." 
               "But it seems you must, now,-at least until you can discover your secret benefactor; which, under the circumstances, I much doubt if you will ever do." 
               "Who knows but Mr. Ashton, or Mr. Selwyn, has taken this way to render the assistance they have so frequently urged upon me." 
               "Fortunately Mr. Ashton is here to answer for himself self," said Miss Mowbray, dispatching a messenger for him. 
               "Come now," she laughingly added, as that gentleman entered the room; "we have sent for you to hear your confession. Mr. Morton charges some one with a crime, and we think it must be you." 
               "Morton, my good fellow, how are you? What crime do you take me to be guilty of, pray?" 
               "The crime of highway-generosity," Richard jocosely replied. 
               "That's a novel charge;-explain it, if you please." 
               "Here is an explanation of it," said Richard, showing him the money; "some person, with kindness aforethought, did forcibly detain me upon the public highway, and then and there, by force and arms, thrust this upon me; said person, as your deponent now believeth, being one Lewis Ashton, of and from the city of New York." 
               "Well done, my good lawyer; now let's have the real English of it," said Mr. Ashton, laughing heartily. 
               "Well, the simple English of it is, that this money-ten thousand dollars-has been put into my hands by some unknown person; and I came here in the full belief that Miss Mowbray was the generous donor; but she so strongly denies it, my suspicions now rest upon you." 
               "Upon me! then let me hasten at once to remove them. I cannot for a moment claim the honor of that noble deed." 
               "Nor Mr. Selwyn?" Richard asked. 
                
               "I think I can answer for him; I do not believe it was he." 
               "Then, in heaven's name! who was it? for I know of no other friend on earth, except-yes, it must be Mr. Thornton!" 
               "Why don't you ask me if I sent it," Maggie asked mischievously. 
               "Because I know your heart and purse are not equally balanced," Richard replied with a loving glance. "But come, walk with me to Willow Glen; I am impatient to unravel the mystery." 
               "I would receive it as a gift from the gods," was Melville Thornton's pleasant rejoinder to Richard's tale. "Miss Mowbray, you say, denies it;-Mr. Ashton and Mr. Selwyn likewise;-and I, too, must disclaim all knowledge of the matter. Whoever sent it, has probably taken such precautions that you can never trace them; and therefore I advise you to apply it, as it was evidently intended you should, to remove all your father's indebtedness." 
               "I do not dare to indulge the blessed dream!" Richard exclaimed with emotion; "to have the labor of years thus suddenly lifted from me!-it cannot be; it is not for me!" 
               "You have no right to say that, Richard; devotion like yours I have known even more strangely rewarded. Take it, Richard, you are worthy of it; and so, I doubt not, the happy giver thinks." 
               "Can you imagine, Maggie," said Richard, as they slowly retraced their steps towards Woodbine Lodge, -"can you even dream of the joy that thrilled my soul as I listened to Mr. Thornton?" 
               "Yes, and my heart rejoiced with you, that your burden is thus lightened, your father saved, without the long plodding toil to which you looked forward." 
               "No, it was not that, Maggie, though God alone knows how great would be my joy to see my father free;-it was something dearer yet-something which flashed with heaven's glory into my spirit! You will not think me beside myself,-you will not deem me mad, dearest, if for one moment-one rapturous moment, I dreamed that now we might not be parted;-that the toil so dreaded might now be devoted to rearing a home around my Maggie;-might be sweetened by her presence-be crowned by a wife's blessing!" 
               "And why may it not be?" she asked in a voice so low he stooped to hear. 
               "Do I hear aright?" he cried, grasping both her hands, and raising her face, that he might read its truth;-"do you, Maggie-idol of my heart-do you bid me hope that such a dream may be mine? Bless you ten thousand times, dearest, for those words:-but, it cannot be!"-he added, dropping her hands and resuming their walk. 
               "Shall you accept Mr. Thornton's advice?" Maggie asked after a moment's silence. 
               "Not at present;-not till I have tried every possible means to discover my too generous friend,"-Richard replied. 
               "But if you do not succeed?" 
                
               "Why, then-but I must not indulge such a thought; I must succeed, Maggie; I cannot feel the weight of such an obligation all my life." 
               "Perhaps that was the reason your friend, whoever he was, adopted such a course. The obligation must rest lightly upon you, where the author is purposely concealed." 
               "You speak as though you would have me retain it, Maggie," said Richard, half reproachfully. 
               "I would not have you throw away any of God's gifts, or lightly esteem a Providence which thus blesses you, Richard," she replied quietly. 
               "Neither would I owe all my blessings to other than my own labor," Richard added decidedly. 
               "Take care, Richard; is there no pride there?" she archly queried. 
               "Pride? yes; but honest pride is no sin," he replied; "tell me truly, Maggie, would you respect me if I had none?" 
               "I will tell you nothing now," said she as they reached the door; "but I would exact one promise from you." 
               "I do not fear to pledge myself to any thing you may ask; what is it, love?" 
               "That if, after one month's unceasing effort, you do not succeed in finding your invisible friend, you will then come to me and be guided by my words. Is that very assuming, Richard?" she playfully added, as he looked down thoughtfully. 
               "Nothing can be assuming that you may suggest," he replied; "I was weighing your words:-I promise, dearest." 
               Four weeks quickly passed in such earnest, untiring, but unavailing efforts as Richard Morton, aided by his father, made. The month at last came round, bringing no ray of light upon his search,-leaving him just where it found him. It were difficult to describe the conflicting emotions with which he presented himself at Woodbine Lodge. Hope, half trembling;-fear, scarcely defined, struggled for mastery in his heart, as he found himself once more in the presence of his betrothed. 
               "True to your word, Richard," she exclaimed with a beaming smile; "just as I expected." 
               "Then you were sure of my failure?" 
               "I had but little faith in your success, I confess," she replied; "but do you regret your promise?" 
               "Not in the least; it relieves me from the responsibility of acting for myself, which just now is very agreeable, especially when such safe and precious hands assume the helm," Richard lovingly added. 
               "And you are ready now to redeem that promise? to be guided by what I shall say?"-Maggie trembled as she asked this. 
               "I know of no reason to reverse my decision," said he, taking her hand; "nor do I see any cause for your agitation, dearest." 
               "It may seem unmaidenly in me, Richard," she began, while the warm blood sent its rich crimson hue to her cheek; "but your peculiar position compels me to speak." 
               "Are we not one, my Maggie?" he whispered encouragingly in her ear; "then do not fear to say all there is in your heart." 
               "I cannot say all, Richard; it would take a lifetime to do that," she replied,-"such a lifetime as I am now vainly endeavoring to ask of you."-She could utter no more, but hid her face in her hands to conceal her emotion. 
               "Maggie, darling! what mean you?" cried Richard, unable to comprehend her words; "would not such a lifetime be the heaven of my existence?-that for which my soul yearns with longings unutterable?-that for which I would sacrifice every thing, save my honor!-tell me, dearest-for your words shadow some meaning,-is there any hope for me?-any door by which I may enter this earthly paradise?" 
               "I will speak frankly to you, Richard, for I know you will understand me,"-and she laid her hand softly into his,-"I think it is your duty to accept that gift, and appropriate it as your heart suggests; then for the future,"-she hesitated: "yes, I will say it,-you can, if you will, accompany us to Mowbray Hall; Miss Mowbray has had news of the death of her attorney, and expects to find her affairs in some confusion. It will need just such a clear head as yours to arrange them, and she bade me ask you to accept the trust, which will be one of sufficient emolument to support your parents, yourself, and"-she paused with a downcast look and bright blush,- 
               "And my wife!" he added almost solemnly as the truth broke over him; "stop one moment, Maggie; I cannot comprehend it,-I cannot believe that you are in earnest. Say again, that all this may be true!" 
               "It all awaits your acceptance," she simply answered. 
               "And you-" 
               "Remember your promise." 
               "I do; it shall be as you say." 
               "Then prepare to accompany us. Now let us seek my friend, Miss Mowbray." 
               Richard walked as one in a dream, to the adjoining apartment. There he heard the whole arrangement from Miss Mowbray's own lips. He saw a path, bright and shining, open before him,-honor and prosperity within his grasp. He saw his father's broken health restored,-his mother's life renewed. Above all, he saw the gentle hand which had wrought this change, and turning towards her, with almost reverential devotion he fell upon his knees, exclaiming, "God make me worthy of thee, my peerless bride-my angel deliverer!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Inward turn 
                        Each thought and every sense, 
                        For sorrow lingers from without. 
                        Thou canst not charm it thence, 
                        But all attun'd the soul may be 
                        Unto a deathless melody." 
                     
                   
                
               ALONE in his library Mark Atherton again sits,-not as thirteen years ago he sat there, with the shadows of fear just creeping about him;-not as then, looking forward to the future, with a dim, uncertain hope, that threatened evil might, by a kind overruling Providence, be turned at last to good,-that the seeds then sown might be checked in their growth, ere they seized in their tendril grasp the heart of his first-born,-that the poisonous inhalations that son received from his mother, might find an antidote in the beautiful, exemplary life of his sister; not as then, bewailing the faults, but still loving the wife he had chosen,-not as then, with the glow of health-the spring of activity in his frame-the dark locks, the flashing eye, which spoke of youthful blood still lingering in his veins. 
                
               Now he sits there to meditate on the ruin of all his hopes; his head is silvered, his eye dimmed, his brow wrinkled, his frame still trembling and quivering under the last blow that has fallen upon him. Wife, he has none; for she who bore that sacred name, has, in her ungovernable fury, broken the last link that bound them; with imprecations and curses on her lips, she has gone from him. "Would he recall her?"-he repeats the question to himself; as in answer comes the echoing of far off years, filled with pride and arrogance, angry strife and heartless deeds, followed quickly by direful memories of filial ingratitude, of ignominious death, of hopeless redemption, crowned by base treachery and deceit! Who can wonder that the heart of the husband had been alienated,-that, looking back from the point where he now stood, his forbearance ceased, his love fled, and loathing, only less bitter than she merited, followed the unhappy woman to her exile. 
               Brighter than the sunniest spot on earth,-more refreshing than the desert's oasis to the worn-out traveller, was the sweet vision which gently rose higher and higher before that dark background. Nettie, simple and pure in spirit-the embodiment of perfection to her father's heart, stood before him. Not bodily, though she was even then obeying his summons and hastening towards him; but to his soul she came, driving from thence all the dark fancies, the fearful images he had conjured there. With her dear face, so sweetly blended that they seemed but the face of one, he saw his mother's mild gaze bent upon him; his sister's loving ing smile-that sister who had moulded the fresh young nature of his beautiful child. In a moment, years had vanished;-again he was the child-the youth-the man, beneath his mother's roof; again her words of wisdom, her spotless life, her glorious death, were with him; again he stood by the lifeless clay, whose departed spirit, as it upward soared, he had so longed to follow to its bright home; again, with a hand in each of his, he repeated the promise made that sainted mother; again he soothed the weeping sister, the sobbing brother, and with them registered a vow, that their mother's legacy, whose earthly possessions had all been wrought into those letters of gold, should be sacredly fulfilled in their future lives,-that the precept she had left them should run like a soft golden thread through all their actions, that at last the blessing she had so earnestly evoked, might rest upon them. 
               His sister's life had been a beautiful transcript of that legacy; his brother's name had become proverbial for all that was good and noble in its spirit; but what had he ever done?-where was even his first effort to redeem that solemn pledge? What if he had been benevolent, as the world esteems benevolence?-what if he had freely given whenever asked?-had never turned aside from the poor and needy? His had not been the spirit with which his sister went about doing good; he had not sought out the abodes of sorrow; he had not given, what is sometimes more precious than gold, the sympathy of a brother's heart. 
               This long review-these deep communings, were lighting up the latent spark within; new resolutions, new hopes, new joys, began to fill his soul,-he heeded not the hours as they passed over him. Softly were they gliding into evening's dusk, when a voice, familiar in its rough accent, aroused him from his reverie. 
               "There, children, I told you so," cried Uncle Joseph; "I thought we should find him moped up here. Come Mark, old fellow, cheer up; we'll drive the blues off now; see what a handsome pair of chicks I've brought you." 
               "Nettie darling!"-the beautiful girl was clasped to her father's heart. 
               "Dear father, have you been very lonely? I came as soon as your letter reached me," Nettie murmured. 
               "That's what she did," said Uncle Joseph; "she hardly gave us time to get ready, did she, Lonny? By the way, Mark, you haven't seen my boy this long while. Would you believe this handsome fellow was the same chap I took from Clifton so long ago?" 
               "Time makes wonderful changes," said Mark, shaking hands cordially with the young man; "I am very happy to see you, Lonny. I scarcely know whether to congratulate you or Mr. Thornton most, in your newly discovered relations to each other. He is worthy a noble son, and you-" 
               "I guess I wouldn't finish that," interrupted Joseph; "he's been flattered enough already; give him some good sound lessons-that's the best thing for him." 
               "Who has been guilty of the greatest flattery, Uncle Joseph?" asked Lonny, smiling. 
                
               "Oh, well, but you don't mind my nonsense you know, if I do sometimes call you the best fellow that ever lived. He is so, Mark, that's a fact. Come now, if you've got any supper, you'll find a set of hungry visitors." 
               Uncle Joseph's jovial, off-hand manner cleared away the clouds which might have hung over this first meeting, after such sad domestic occurrences. But no cloud could long rest in the sunshine of his heart, which carried its glow to his honest face. 
               "I had forgotten all about supper," said Mark, ringing the bell; "I hope the servants have not been as neglectful as their master." 
               "Let me go, father," cried Nettie; "remember, it is my place now," she whispered in his ear as she passed out of the room. 
               The allusion brought a deep sigh from Mark Atherton's breast. 
               "There, Lonny, you go and help Nettie," said Uncle Joseph; "I want to see my brother just a minute. Now, Mark," he added, as they were left alone, "it's best for you and me to talk this thing right over now. You feel bad enough, that I can see; and if there's one person on earth that loves you-that would give his right hand to make you as happy as you deserve, that person is your brother Joe. Give me your hand, Mark-I'll stand by you as long as I live,"-two great tears rolled down Joseph's cheek as he grasped his brother's hand. 
               "If I had always been as good as you, Joe," said Mark with deep emotion, "this punishment might never have come upon me." 
               "Oh come, don't talk about goodness now,"-cried Joseph; "I've got none to boast of. But tell me what I can do for you; that's what I want to know." 
               "Your presence has already cheered me," Mark replied. 
               "Then you don't feel hurt with me because I brought Louisa out in that scrape? You don't think I meant her any harm, do you?" 
               "It is painful to speak of her," said Mark; "but as you say, I think it is best we should talk it over now, and then let the subject drop for ever. I did not think of blaming you, Joe; on the contrary, I am grateful that you stopped the mischief when you did." 
               "I suspected some foul play, Mark; and to tell you the truth, it hit just where I expected it would." 
               "I could not have believed her guilty of such despicable meanness-such treachery"-said Mark. 
               "I did; has she gone for good?" Uncle Joseph asked. 
               "Yes, this house will never more afford her shelter," replied Mark decidedly; "but I have settled upon her a sufficient sum to make her comfortable as long as she lives." 
               "Well, Mark, you mustn't think hard of me, if I tell you I'm right glad she's out of your way. You haven't had such an easy life with her as to make you mourn much, I know." 
               "I mourn not over our separation, Joe; 'tis better so; but I do mourn, how grievously you cannot know, that I did not remove our children from her influence. Who knows but Albert might have been saved, had I been more determined-more faithful in my duty to him?" 
               "You must not reproach yourself, Mark; you have done a thousand times better than I should in your place. Look at Nettie; isn't she a comfort to you now?" 
               "Yes; but who knows what she might have been, were it not for Lottie's influence over her-her early teachings?" 
               "She never could have been any thing but good, Mark," Joseph enthusiastically replied; "she's just like you for all the world. Don't you remember how vexed you used to be, because mother said you would make a great deal better man than I?" 
               "Mother was mistaken for once," said Mark; "I was thinking of her just before you came; how vividly every thing connected with her came to my mind, especially her last hours, her solemn admonitions, her blessed legacy, which has made you, Joe, and Lottie so near perfection." 
               "You may call Lottie as near perfection as you choose; you won't hit very wide of the mark," said Joseph, smiling; "but when you come to me, you're all off your track;-there, I hear the children coming-we'd better not talk about your matters before them, had we?" 
               "No, not a word," Mark replied; "some time I will tell Nettie all that it is best for her to know; but now I would make her home cheerful and happy." 
               "See, father, what a present I have just received," cried Nettie, coming in with a little box in her hand, from which she displayed a set of precious and costly pearl ornaments. 
               "It is easy to guess where these came from," he replied, smiling, as he glanced from the jewels to Lonny's face. 
               "But you haven't guessed rightly, though; they are not Lonny's gift," she added rather soberly; "he would not be so extravagant, I hope." 
               "Not Lonny's gift! whose is it, then?" 
               "Listen, and I will read this note to you, though I do not deserve such a compliment." Nettie blushed as she began. 
               "I send you these jewels, my dear girl, as emblematical of yourself. Simple, pure and chaste, their intrinsic value far outweighs the glittering gems and gaudy baubles found in fashion's train. Like you, dear Nettie, they remind one of angelic life; like you, may their giver at last enter those pearly gates which are opened for the redeemed alone. Wear these pearls, Nettie, at the approaching nuptials of your friends. When your own arrives, a more befitting remembrance will be given by one who thinks of you but to bless you.-SELWYN." 
               "Noble! generous!" cried Mark as she ceased; "but what nuptials does he refer to, Nettie?" 
               "Miss Mowbray and Miss Singleton are both to be married Thanksgiving evening; hadn't you heard of it, father?" 
               "No; to whom, pray?" 
               "Miss Mowbray marries Mr. Ashton, the lawyer with whom Richard Morton remained in New York. Richard and Miss Singleton are to be united at the same time; and then they are all going to Miss Mowbray's residence in England. Isn't that nice, father? and Richard takes his parents with him." 
               "We've all got to be at that wedding, so they say," Uncle Joseph remarked; "you'll go, Mark, won't you?" 
               "Me? I'll wait for an invitation, I think." 
               "I have got one for you, father," said Nettie; "and the ladies both insisted on your accompanying me. I shall take no denial, I assure you; I am going to be first bridesmaid. How thoughtful in Mr. Selwyn, to send me the very thing I wanted most to wear!"-and her eye rested with a grateful smile on the rich gift. 
               "I suppose, if you are bridesmaid, you want me to stand up with you," her father said quizzically. 
               "It was for the purpose of claiming that honor, sir, that I came here now," Lonny replied for her. 
               "Did you think it necessary to ask me?" said Mr. Atherton, pleasantly. 
               "Perhaps I should not, sir, had I not a more precious boon to crave," Lonny replied; then, stopping a moment, he again spoke: "you know so well the story of my love for your daughter, sir, that it needs no repetition here. I resolved, years ago, never to enter your door, or ask permission to wed Nettie, till I could offer her, at least, an unquestioned name. Heaven has granted me one, more noble than even my highest hopes could anticipate, Will you consent that your daughter shall share it, sir?" 
               "Lonny," said Mark Atherton, agitatedly, "had you asked me years ago, I should have given you the same answer that I now do. You were worthy then; you are still worthy. Take her; and in this proof of my confidence and esteem,-the greatest I could bestow, read only your own noble deserts." 
               "There, Mark, you've said just what I wanted you to," cried Uncle Joseph, wiping his eyes; "he's worthy of her, and she's worthy of him. Come here, my children; let Uncle Joseph tell you, if he can, how he blesses God for this hour;-how his heart swells up to see his noble boy rewarded. Lonny and Nettie," he added, raising his hands, "when I call upon Heaven to bless you, as I now do, in that blessing I must include her, to whom you owe each other! What and where would you have been, my children, but for AUNT LOTTIE?" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "What! we have many goodly days to see; 
                        The liquid drops of tears that you have shed, 
                        Shall come again, transform'd to orient pearl; 
                        Advantaging their loan, with interest 
                        Oftentimes double gain of happiness." 
                     
                   
                
               "WELCOME home, Richard! well, what success now?" 
               "Such as you will not be prepared to hear, father." 
               "Ah! then it was her, after all; I suspected so from the first." 
               "No, father; the mystery about that money is still as great as ever; it was not Miss Mowbray's gift, I am perfectly confident; but she has bestowed one that is even greater than that." 
               "What is it, Richard?"-Judge Morton could not tell from Richard's face whether it was good or ill news he brought. 
               "She has opened for us a path of honor and independence; one in which you, father, may find that rest you need;-may be free from the toil which it has grieved me to see you bear." 
               "Explain yourself, Richard," said his father; "your words and looks do not correspond exactly." 
                
               "I have not yet recovered from the stunning effect of such sudden joy," Richard replied; "to have one's life so changed, as in a moment, is like emerging at once from a rayless night to the sun's meridian brightness. We are no longer poor, father! we are rich-rich in the dearest sense of the word, to me." 
               "How is that? then you have concluded to keep the money?"-the Judge looked puzzled. 
               "What else can I do with it-unless I throw it away?" said Richard; "father, I have made up my mind that Providence intended it for us;-that, like all other blessings, we must use it thankfully and faithfully. But what I referred to was the offer Miss Mowbray has made me, to become her attorney-to take charge of her estates, which, she says, will require one's whole time, and afford a very large income. What do you say to that, father? do you wonder my head was a little turned by such a dazzling prospect?" he asked, laughingly. 
               "Is it possible!-has Miss Mowbray made you such an offer? Why, where is her old attorney, Mr. Broughton?" 
               "He is dead; and her affairs have been left without any one to manage them for some time. She expects to find them in a good deal of confusion; and therefore it will be necessary to return with her to Mowbray Hall. Can you realize it, father?-that the voyage your physician recommended, as the only means of your cure, is so near at hand?-that your laboring days are over?-that your son will now have the proud satisfaction tion of placing his father in the position he deserves?-that-" 
               "Stop! stop! Richard," cried Judge Morton; "I am bewildered! Is all this true?-are you really going to England so soon?" 
               "Yes, sir; and you and mother also, if you will." 
               "What salary did she propose to give you?" 
               "No sum was mentioned, sir; but Miss Mowbray said it would be sufficient to support us all handsomely. The papers will be drawn up after we get there; and she says she has no doubt I shall find it all satisfactory." 
               "I have no doubt either," said the Judge; "I remember it afforded Mr. Broughton a very handsome living. Then you and Maggie will not be separated, after all." 
               "Never, I trust," responded Richard; "she will become my wife at the same time Miss Mowbray is united to Mr. Ashton. She is the good angel who has brought all this to pass." 
               "She has ever been your 'good angel,' Richard. Do you remember the harsh terms I applied to her long ago, which drove you from me, as they should?" 
               "We've too much to think of now, father, to recall those old matters," Richard replied, cheerfully; "let them rest where they are." 
               "I do not wish to recall them, Richard," said his father; "but before she becomes your wife, I must tell you how entirely my views are changed;-how much more I prize such a character as hers than all the gold in the world." 
                
               "Then you have no lingering regret that it is not Miss Mowbray that I wed?" 
               "No; if I know my own heart, I have none. I respect Miss Mowbray most sincerely; but Maggie fills even my heart with a happiness wealth could not bring; what then must she be to you, my son!" 
               "She is my life," Richard simply answered. 
               "What shall we do first?" Mrs. Morton asked, in her confused delight, as the news was broken to her astonished ears. 
               "The first thing to be done," Richard replied emphatically, "is to pay to the uttermost farthing every dollar father owes. The few effects we have can then be very quickly disposed of," he added, with a smiling glance around their scantily furnished apartment. 
               "But it is so soon!"-she urged; "how can we get ready?" 
               "A great deal can be done in two weeks, mother," said Richard; "especially when hearts and hands are as light as ours." 
               Mrs. Morton found her son's words literally true; as, before the two weeks closed, old friends came thronging to her humble home, to congratulate her on Richard's rumored fortune-increasing, as such rumors usually do, with each day's gossip, till its immensity was astonishing. "A great deal" must have been done, surely, to have so changed cold faces into the smiling, fawning ones that flocked about them now. Some potent charm had reached their hearts at last, which awoke them suddenly to the remembrance of their "dear old friends, the Mortons." 
               But gossip was not confined to the fortunes of the Mortons; it spread its omniscient wings over the busy little village surrounding Woodbine Lodge. Every morning it issued its bulletin, through its accredited agents, Misses Tompkins and Pitkins. The number and quality of Miss Mowbray's dresses;-her magnificent diamonds, just arrived from England;-that insufferable, citified, stuck up dressmaker, that might, if she would, give them so much coveted information about that most important of all things-the bridal robe;-Miss Singleton's presumption in having a white satin dress, when every body knew she was only a dependant on the heiress;-who were to be the bridesmaids; and, above all, who would receive invitations to the greatest wedding ever known in those parts-were fruitful subjects for daily conjecture and discussion by these worthies. The most trivial acts or words of the unconscious objects of their espionage, were at once caught up, decked in glowing colors, and triumphantly heralded from house to house, as "the latest news." 
               Alas! that so many of our lovely rural villages should be infested with these evil genii-these Tompkins and Pitkins of every shade! An incubus on the happy growth of any community! the broad Upas under which many hearts wither and die! 
               But the happy inmates of Woodbine Lodge little knew or cared with what importance their slightest movements were regarded by their neighbors. Their own bright, blissful anticipations, would have put to flight a hundred such evil-winged messengers. Could any of those gossiping villagers have obtained but one glimpse into the room we are about to enter, wonders would never have ceased; for there, in the middle of the chamber, stood the blushing "dependant," clad in almost royal magnificence. Over a robe of snowy velvet, like a vapory cloud thrown about her, fell in soft, mazy folds, a rich and costly lace. Encircling her slight waist was a girdle of precious stones; while around her neck and arms and crowning her rich curls, flashed the magnificent heir-looms of her father's house. Yet, in this queenly dress, sitting with such natural ease and grace upon her perfect form, Lucille Mowbray looked not more lovely than when, in simple disguise, she gained a father's blessing in Richard's lowly home. It was evident, however, that her companions did not thus think, as they stood there devouring her rare loveliness with such admiring eyes. 
               "Now, Lucille," exclaimed one of them, "you look like yourself again-just as you used to go to parties, only more bridish-more beautiful than ever." 
               "Hush, Maggie, no flattery; I tried this dress on to please you; how do you like it? and you too, Aunt Blair-tell me what you think of it." 
               "It is superb-just what the daughter of Sir Charles Mowbray should wear at her bridal." 
               "It almost bewilders me, my darling, to see you so suddenly transformed," said Mrs. Blair, smiling; "it is indeed magnificent-more so than any thing I ever saw; but you must not accuse me of flattery, my dear, if I add that it is not more so than you deserve." 
               "You are both determined to spoil me, I see; so I'll quickly resume my simple dress, which in truth I love better than these diamonds." 
               "Simplicity cannot hide, nor diamonds dim the precious jewel concealed here," said Maggie, tapping her shoulder with tender playfulness; "but I cannot help thinking what a consternation there will be among our guests next Thursday night, when you suddenly flash upon them in your true light." 
               "I dread it more than you can imagine, Maggie." 
               "I don't dread it, Lucille dear; I shall glory in your triumph over some of them,-Mr. Flint, for instance." 
               "Ha, ha, ha!"-rang out Lucille's merry laugh; "how he will stammer and a-hem, and try to make some sort of speech to me! I can imagine just how he will look and talk. Then those friends of yours from the city, Maggie, who thought so strangely of your intimacy with your 'companion,' and who gave me no very gentle hints that I ought to understand my position better-that I was a 'vain little hireling,' and sundry other pleasant epithets,-what do you suppose they will say?" 
               "Their discomfiture is what I shall enjoy most,-they saw so much 'native elegance' in me;-'it was so easy to distinguish one of high birth,' &c. Alas! poor me, I shall lose those 'distinguishing' marks at once." 
                
               "But seriously, Maggie dear, what most of all I dread is, lest Richard should condemn such deception even for any purpose;"-Lucille looked grave as she said this. 
               "Mr. Ashton did not, and why should Richard? Lewis said he thought it would be a most salutary lesson to all our friends,-teaching them not to judge of others by outward appearances." 
               "Well, I see no harm in it, so far as our friends are concerned; but Richard, you know, is different; he is such a perfect model of truth and honor; and then, to carry the deception so far-not even giving him the power to withdraw if he chooses!" 
               "These are new troubles with you, darling; you have been congratulating yourself on the noble reward Richard would at last receive for all his sufferings;-now answer me truly, Lucille; do you think the knowledge of your fortune would drive him from you?" 
               "No, I cannot say that;" Lucille replied promptly. 
               "Then drive away these foolish fears-these idle fancies. You wished to learn your true value,-to be loved for yourself alone, and that wish has been granted; you are prized and loved as you deserve to be, dear Lucille; let your heart be satisfied." 
               "My dears, Miss Page is below," said Mrs. Blair, putting her head in at the door; "what! not dressed yet! and Lucille in tears! I thought you were very merry when I left you." 
                
               "They are happy tears, dear aunt; we will be down directly." 
               "The man said you wanted to see me on some very particular business," said Miss Priscilla, courtesying low as the ladies entered the room where she was. 
               "We did, Miss Page," said the one we must still call Miss Mowbray; "you are doubtless aware that my friend and I intend to return to England shortly." 
               "Yes'm," quickly added Miss Priscilla; "but perhaps you don't know how many prayers will follow you there." 
               "We shall be grateful to know that any do," Miss Mowbray replied; "but I have sent for you, Miss Priscilla, to consult you about some arrangements we are desirous of making." 
               "I'm sure, ma'am, you honor me too much." 
               "Not at all; we have been thinking over all our acquaintances here, and we know of no one in whom we can place more trust than yourself. Now, to come directly to the point, Miss Page, will you assume the charge of this house in our absence? We shall of course furnish you suitable assistants, and will make your compensation good." 
               "Miss Mowbray, do you ask me that in real earnest?" said Miss Priscilla, tears springing to her eyes. 
               "Certainly I do, and shall feel very thankful to you if you will accept the trust. It will be rather lonely; but perhaps you have some friend who would stay here with you." 
               "Now, see what comes o' havin' faith!" cried Miss Priscilla, wholly overcome with her good fortune; "I was a telling Polly Bemis no longer ago than yesterday, that I didn't know what the Lord was a goin' to do with me this winter, for I hadn't got nothin' laid up. 'Oh, Miss Priscilla,' says Polly, says she to me, 'you may depend on't somethin' 'll turn up for ye,-only have faith;' and now you see, Miss Mowbray, the Lord has put it into your head to help me. But I'm afeared I ain't capable enough." 
               "I'll venture that; all you'll have to do is to keep the house in order; you can reserve two or three rooms for your own use and shut up the rest. Care and trustworthiness are the qualities needed, and I know you have them. Wouldn't your friend, Miss Bemis, like to come and live here with you?" 
               "Polly would be dredful glad I'm sure, ma'am, if you'd allow her; how long before you'll come back?" 
               "That is uncertain at present, but very likely next spring; at all events, we wish to feel that this lovely home is ready for us at any time." 
               "I'm sure, Miss Mowbray, the Lord 'll bless you for doin' such great things for me." 
               "I think I am the fortunate one in securing such faithful services. But there's another thing I want you to do, and that is, to preside over the supper in the servants' hall next Thursday evening; to see that every body is properly taken care of, and then distribute the gifts which we shall prepare for them. What do you say to that?" 
               "My heart is too full, Miss Mowbray; I can't talk now; but I'll serve you, that I will, faithful and true. I must go down to Polly's now,-indeed I can't hold in no longer. What will Polly say!" and with her apron to her eyes, where tears were streaming fast, Miss Priscilla flew to her friend. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
                
                  
                      
                        "What's i' the air?- 
                        Some subtle spirit runs through all my veins, 
                        Hope seems to ride this morning on the wind, 
                        And joy outshines the sun." 
                     
                   
                
               BRIGHTLY dawned the day, whose hours came freighted with such momentous interest;-never shone a fairer Thanksgiving sun;-softer winds never sighed among the leafless trees on this time-honored festival. Nature seemed, in the plenitude of her joy, to foreshadow the cloudless existence of her favored children-for such were those whose lives were this day to be blended. 
               The last act of the drama was fast drawing nigh. Well had its self-constituted actors performed their parts; "life's lesson" had been learned-the world tested;-naught now remained but the grand denouement, where virtue should receive its meed-worldliness its rebuke. 
               Preparations had been made in a style befitting the fair hostess' princely fortune. Mowbray Hall could not have boasted more taste or elegance than were displayed played in the arrangements at Woodbine Lodge. Lucille would resign her father's proud and honored name, as became the heiress of a Mowbray. Now that she rested so securely in the worthiness of him to whom she intrusted the precious gift, she felt a secret delight in throwing around the transfer, something of the grandeur which awaited the future master of Mowbray Hall. 
               Richard Morton stood beside Mr. Ashton, admiring the rare and exquisite adornments of the brilliantly lighted drawing-room at Woodbine Lodge. 
               "What a perfect taste Miss Mowbray has," at length he exclaimed; "ah, Mr. Ashton, many an envious glance will be bestowed upon you to-night." 
               "Yours, for instance," said Mr. Ashton with a peculiar smile. 
               "No, thank Heaven, not mine," rejoined Richard; "my own happiness is too complete for that; I should sooner think of being envied myself." 
               "You have more reason to be envied than I, Morton." 
               "Allow me to say, that while I agree with you there, I marvel much that you should say so; but I suppose you think you can afford to expend a little magnanimity on me," Richard laughingly replied. 
               "However that may be," said Mr. Ashton in the same mood; "remember what I tell you now,-you are the more to be envied to-night, because you will receive only what you have nobly earned." 
               "This way, gentlemen, if you please; the company are beginning to come," said a servant, leading the way to another room; "Mr. Morton, here is a note your lady wished me to hand to you." 
               "Come to me, Richard; I must see you a few moments alone, before the ceremony can take place." 
               "Show me to Miss Singleton," said he to the servant, as his eye ran over and over again those delicately written lines; "Mr. Ashton, you will excuse me for a few moments, if you please." 
               "Certainly," said that gentleman with a look which, had Richard noticed it, would have demanded an explanation. 
               "She said you were to knock at that door," said the servant, retiring; "you will find her there, I presume." 
               Richard's gentle knock was answered in a voice scarcely audible, and in a moment he stood in the presence of his betrothed. But his steps were arrested-the words on his lips stayed-at the beautiful apparition before him. It was Maggie's face,-the same soft, pleading eyes,-the same look of love with which she ever welcomed him; but why in such regal attire?-why with a fortune more than he could ever possess, flashing and gleaming over her, as though its brilliancy were but a part of her lovely self?-what queen of fairies had assumed the form and features of his beloved! 
               "Richard!" she cried, approaching him and holding out her jewelled hand;-"Richard, oh, what shall I say-forgive-forgive!" 
                
               Her words recalled him,-"Maggie, dearest," said he, catching both her hands; "what is all this! what am I to forgive!" 
               "Forgive a deception, which has won for me a treasure of infinitely more worth than all my father's possessions;" she replied in an agitated but sweet voice, and with downcast eyes. 
               "Your father's possessions!" he repeated with astonishment; "Maggie, darling, what can you mean?" 
               "Sit down here by me, Richard," said she, moving towards a chair; "and hear my confession. This is a strange hour for such a task, is it not?" she continued, while a deep carnation dyed her cheeks; "but I cannot become your wife, dear one, till I have told you how I have deceived you-you, the soul of truth-how I appeared before you in a character not my own. The bride you have wooed and won, Richard, is not the poor friendless orphan she allowed you to believe. With the hand she will proudly place in yours,-the heart she this night pledges you for ever, LUCILLE MOWBRAY resigns her name and fortune to one all worthy the gift." 
               "Am I dreaming!" cried Richard wildly; "what is this you have been saying, dearest?" 
               "That if you do not turn me from you, you will this night wed Lucille Mowbray, the heiress!" she repeated with a sweet smile. 
               "You the heiress!-my Maggie!" 
               "Maggie no longer, but yours, Richard, if you will, for ever, your own Lucille. May I hope for pardon now?" she pleaded. 
               "What have I to pardon?" said he tenderly. "If as you say-though I cannot realize it,-you have concealed your name and fortune from me,-if you are really the Mowbray heiress, your heart is still the same, and that is the prize I sought." 
               "Then I am forgiven," was her joyous cry. 
               "If there is aught to forgive," he replied; "but tell me why you did this, Maggie,-yes, let me call you so once more; I cannot so easily unlearn that dear name." 
               "Then 'Lucille' will not be as dear to you?" she added half reproachfully. 
               "It will be even more precious when applied to my wife," he fondly answered; "now, Lucille, tell me why all this deception." 
               "I wish it could be less harshly termed," said she; "and yet I know it is just. Believe me, Richard, it was not so much to deceive others as to undeceive myself, that prompted me to such a strange course. I had been flattered, courted, and caressed, till my heart sickened and wearied of the false worship. Well I knew it was Sir Charles Mowbray's daughter they sought, not my simple, loving heart. Deeply I felt that thus must it ever be,-that the yearnings of my heart for a love which could find its completeness in me, would never be satisfied. Then it was, that, coming among those who had never known me, the thought-the burning desire took possession of me, to test the value a selfish world would place upon a simple maiden like myself, without fortune or friends. You know something of that test, Richard, for you have seen the neglect-the contempt with which my humble position has been favored, while my friend was surrounded with adulation." 
               "But who is this friend? is she too an heiress?" Richard asked with a puzzled look. 
               "No, she has been my companion from a child; to her belongs the name by which you have known me,-the real Maggie." 
               "And Mr. Ashton-has he too been deceived?" 
               "No; when I found that he loved Maggie, but would not woo the heiress, I told him all." 
               "Ah! now I understand why he said I was to be envied more than he; how like a dream this all seems!" 
               "Have I done wrong, Richard? does your pure heart condemn me? do I read aright in your grave face, that our innocent ruse will end thus sadly?" Lucille asked with a tearful eye. 
               Richard gazed upon her a moment in silence, while his thoughts flew swiftly over the past. 
               "Condemn you!" he exclaimed; "never! If I look 'grave,' it is because I feel my own unworthiness, Lucille-for now I can call you thus-you have borne a hero's part; you have won a victory worthy the greatest conqueror on earth; you should have received a reward commensurate with your deed." 
               "Your approval is all the reward I desire," said she; "I feared-but away with fears now-nothing but joy is before me. See, Richard; I dared not wear this significant orange wreath or bridal veil till I had confessed to you. You are sure you will still receive me?-still remember your promise to take charge of my estates?" she playfully added, holding aloft the rich gossamer veil. 
               "I understand it all now," he replied; "God help me to receive thee as I ought, my bride-my wife;" then, impressing a gentle, reverent kiss upon her fair forehead, he enveloped her blushing face in the gauzy folds. 
               "Here, that isn't the way," exclaimed the laughing voice of Maggie, who had just entered the room; "let me arrange it for you, Lucille, dear; they are awaiting us below," she whispered as she bent over Lucille's face; "are you ready?" 
               "Yes; I have told him all," Lucille replied in the same tone; "I fear nothing now." 
               Fashion and beauty thronged the spacious rooms below;-gay city guests, drawn thither by the eclat of the occasion, came in all their dazzling array, to pay their homage to the English heiress. Strangers of distinction were there, who had known Sir Charles Mowbray abroad, and now gladly graced the nuptials of his only child; never gathered a more brilliant and aristocratic assembly beneath one roof. From the conservatory, where were concealed a band of amateur performers, music lent its enchantment to the scene-now sending forth its thrilling strains in the soft notes of the harp-then swelling into a grand chorus of rich melody. 
               Suddenly the music ceased-the low, murmuring hum of voices sank into a breathless hush, as the bridal party was announced. First, in their simple vestal robes, came three bridesmaids with their attendants; then at Lonny's side followed Nettie, whose golden curls seemed resting on some fleecy cloud, so ethereal was her pure white drapery. At any other time, her rare loveliness would have called forth a burst of admiration; but now every eye was bent in eager anticipation upon the open door. Elegantly attired in rich white satin, whose lustre was softened by an airy covering; her raven hair setting off to advantage the orange flowers and gracefully falling veil-the bride for whom they waited entered, leaning on Mr. Ashton's arm. As they approached the circle around the clergyman, they parted, and with deference waved those who followed them to the centre of the group. 
               Paralyzed with astonishment, every gaze was riveted on the sweet face, around which flashed such queenly gems. A union of such splendor and magnificence had never before greeted their sight. It was as if an Eastern princess had suddenly dropped among them in all her oriental grandeur. "What and who could she be!" sprang to every lip; but the deep silence was unbroken, save by the solemn words of the beautiful marriage service of the Church of England. Slowly and with deep pathos were they uttered; but when the clergyman came to the words,-"Wilt thou, Lucille Mowbray, take this man to be thy wedded husband?" Mr. Flint, who had been invited through courtesy to assist in the ceremony, quickly sprang to his feet, and, touching his arm, whispered: "You have made a mistake in the name, sir." 
               "There is no mistake, I believe," replied the officiating gentleman, turning to Richard Morton for confirmation. 
               "You are right, sir; proceed, if you please," said Richard. 
               Then it was that emotion could no longer be repressed. Scarcely was the remaining service heeded; only once again, as those words were addressed to Mr. Ashton's bride, did the excited listeners breathlessly pause;-then, as in answer to the name of "Margaret Singleton," they heard her clear response, the truth flashed upon them. 
               It were difficult to describe the mingled emotions with which this astounding revelation was received; nor was there much time for their exhibition; for, with ready tact the company were at once ushered to the royal banquet which awaited them; while the band poured forth its inspiring and loyal strains of "God save the Queen." 
               There, first assuming her rightful honors, Lucille proudly sat by her husband's side. Many a glance of admiration paid homage to her resplendent loveliness-many a downcast eye, too, told of deep chagrin and mortification. 
               "Richard," said Judge Morton, approaching them, "I can wait no longer for an explanation of this strange scene; what does it all mean, my son?" 
               "It means, simply, that, instead of being Miss Mowbray's friend, my wife was Miss Mowbray herself," Richard replied with a smile. 
               "Have you known it all along, Richard?" 
               "No, sir, not till a few moments before the ceremony." 
               "You will acknowledge now that a woman can keep a secret, will you not, father?" Lucille asked, with a sweet emphasis on the last word. 
               "I will acknowledge your power for any thing that is good and noble," he replied; "but how could you deceive us so long,-particularly Richard?" 
               "I will explain to you some time how and why I did it," said she; "here, Richard, make room for Nettie, sweet girl." 
               "So, after all, you were the rich Miss Mowbray!" exclaimed Nettie, kissing the fair bride's cheek; "who would ever have thought of such a thing? I wish you could hear all the stories I have, within ten minutes," she added, laughing heartily; "I don't believe you could tell which was right yourself." 
               "Probably none of them," Lucille replied; "motives so simple as mine would scarcely be thought of here." 
               "What were your motives? pray tell me; for I cannot guess." 
               Ere Lucille could reply to Nettie's question, she was surrounded by flattering homage. Meaningless compliments and congratulations fell upon her ear; but they found no lodgment there. Now and then a merry smile would gleam around her mouth, at the discomfiture of former friends; but her words were kind to all; malice or revenge could have no part in happiness like hers. The least bit of the former, however, it must be confessed, twinkled in her eye, as Mr. Flint approached her with a most obsequious bow. 
               "Allow me to congratulate you, Mrs. Morton," said he; "you have become quite a heroine to-night." 
               "Is it for that you would congratulate me?" she asked, mischievously. 
               "Not exactly," he replied; "your happy union, of course, I referred to; yet it is no small honor to create such a sensation as you have done." 
               "That depends, sir, upon the kind of sensation created." 
               "Ahem! well,-I must say you managed the thing very adroitly," he stammered; "you must have had some powerful motive for doing it. Mr. Morton, you were in the secret, of course; cannot you enlighten us upon the subject?" 
               "Allow me to answer for him, sir," said Lucille, proudly; "it is only within the last two hours, that the 'poor dependant'-the 'humble companion' he would have exalted to himself, has been revealed to him as a disguised heiress." 
               "Allow me, also to add, that the motives that prompted such a ruse are worthy of being engraven in gold," Richard Morton quickly rejoined. 
                
               "No doubt-no doubt," said Mr. Flint; "I have always remarked an unusual degree of excellence about your wife; but I have really quite a curiosity to hear what they were." 
               "In a word, then, sir, she wished to estimate the value you, and all others who make up the world, would place upon her, independent of her fortune." 
               "Ahem-well-Mrs. Morton, what is the result of your original idea-for it is certainly an original one," Mr. Flint asked, rather uneasily. 
               "Perfectly satisfactory, sir, though somewhat humbling to myself, I must confess," she replied, in a manner which did not tend to lessen his uneasiness. 
               "But you have made many friends," said he, looking around the rooms. 
               "Some noble ones," she replied; "but you do not suppose, Mr. Flint, that these are all my friends-or rather were," she added, significantly. 
               "I do not know how any one can be otherwise," he replied in an insinuating tone, just as they were summoned back to the drawing-rooms. 
               "We must not forget Miss Priscilla and her charge," Lucille whispered to her friend; "come, Maggie, let us go and see them." 
               The astonishing disclosure, which had created such a sensation in the drawing-rooms, had been thoroughly discussed in the servants' hall, where Miss Priscilla held undisputed sway over the appetites and opinions of a large number of poor neighbors, who had been invited to celebrate the occasion by a grand supper. 
                
               "It's my opinion, decided," said Miss Priscilla, whose words were listened to with profound respect since she had risen to the honor of housekeeper; "it's my opinion, and there ain't no getting away from it neither, you never can tell what a person is by their money; there's some that's rich, that are good, and there's some that aint, that's jest as good; and so agin t'other way: some poor folks is good, and some aint;-it's all in their nat'ral disposition, arter all. Now I hold that them young ladies aint no better nor worse than they was afore, whichever way the fortin goes. For my part, I think 'em both as near like angels as they can be." 
               "So do I"-"so do I," was nodded around the circle in assent to Miss Priscilla's remarks. 
               Then from one and another came tales of distress relieved by the "sweet young lady;" how with her own hands she had ministered to them-and she all the while a grand heiress;-this never-ending theme was brought to a sudden termination by the appearance of the lady herself and her friend in their bridal garments. An involuntary burst of wonder and delight greeted their entrance, which Lucille acknowledged with a sweet smile as she bade them "good evening." 
               "How are you enjoying yourselves here, Miss Priscilla?" said she, turning to that worthy. 
               "They all seem to be real happy," Miss Priscilla replied; "but we can't talk of nothin' but you and the other lady." 
               "You are surprised, of course, to find that we have changed names," said Lucille, smiling: "but I hope that doesn't change our characters; my friend deserves all the respect you have shown her." 
               "And you deserve to be sainted," chimed in Priscilla. 
               "No more than before," Lucille answered earnestly; "but I suppose we cannot be spared from the company long; so we must talk fast. I should like to take you each by the hand, and thank you all for the respect and kindness you have shown me," she added, glancing around the room; "be assured I shall never forget you; and, when I return again to this country, shall hope to see you all again. Miss Priscilla, you will please distribute my gifts among these good people, which I hope they will accept, bearing in mind this truth, which I have found by experience,-that poverty can become a blessing or curse, as our hearts incline; and that what the world may think of us affects us not in the sight of God." 
               "What's that she said last?" cried an old lady after Lucille had gone. 
               "She said 'twan't no matter how the world treated us, if we're all right with God," Miss Priscilla replied, wiping her eye; "and so 'taint. But if you'd a known as well as I how she's been treated, you couldn't a heerd her say it without crying. I shall tell Mr. Flint a piece o' my mind yet about that. Now look here; see what she's left for each on you. Nobody need'nt tell me folks aint never perfect in this world; I know better-I've seen 'em." 
                
               Happier hearts or brighter faces went not forth from Woodbine Lodge that night, than those who bore to their lowly dwellings the munificent remembrance of the disguised heiress-Richard Morton's bride.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Tis past.-Like some gorgeous sunset, gilding 
                        Earth and heaven with its hues of brightness, 
                        It came and went, leaving the astonished world 
                        To discuss and talk its wonders o'er." 
                     
                      
                        "Thy curse upon thine own head hath recoiled, 
                        And thou art left mad-bereft of reason." 
                     
                   
                
               "THIS world is full of wonders," said Uncle Joseph the next morning at Willow Glen; "I don't see why writers need to make up stories, when such strange things are happening every day." 
               "It is a trite saying, but I think we all have reason to believe it, that 'truth is stranger than fiction,'" replied his brother Mark. 
               "That scene last night, for instance," Uncle Joseph rejoined; "how I should like to see it all written out." 
               "That could scarcely be done," said Charlotte Thornton, laughing; "who could describe the utter amazement which sat upon every face, as the truth burst upon them,-gradually changing into an expression of sincere joy on some, and the deepest chagrin and mortification on others? You, for one, Joseph, looked so queer when the clergyman called her Lucille Mowbray, and she assented!-what was that you whispered to Mr. Flint then?" 
               "I only said that that trap was pretty well sprung, and I pitied any body that had got caught in it; but he looked as if he'd bite me. 'What trap do you mean?' said he. I saw in a minute that he took, but I didn't care. 'I mean,' said I, 'that those who have been looking down so long upon her, will have to look higher than they can reach now.'" 
               "What did he say to that?" 
               "He didn't make any reply, but went to talking with the clergyman, asking him ever so many questions about her." 
               "There were several English people present, who were exceedingly amused at the ruse," said Mr. Thornton; "one gentleman told me he should make it the subject of a newspaper article when he got home-giving us, I suppose, a fine setting off for our treatment of one of their aristocracy." 
               "He must make exceptions, if he writes truthfully," said Mark; "I believe she has been quite a favorite of yours, Lottie." 
               "Yes, but no more so, I think, than her friend, now Mrs. Ashton," said Mrs. Thornton; "I admire them both." 
               "I felt more joy last night, on Richard Morton's account than any other," Mr. Thornton remarked; "he has borne himself so nobly through all his misfortunes,-has shown such a pure and upright heart in every trial, that he well deserves his brilliant destiny." 
               "That's a fact," said Uncle Joseph; "but there were some there last night who didn't seem to think so; they said he was a sly fox-that he'd known all along what he was after." 
               "It is false, to my certain knowledge," Melville Thornton exclaimed, indignantly; "it provokes me to see how few people can witness another's prosperity without trying to detract from it. Richard believed her to be a poor girl till a few moments before they were married." 
               "He has found his unknown benefactor now, hasn't he?" said Charlotte Thornton. 
               "Yes, I thought of that in a moment last night," her husband replied: "how perfectly she has carried the whole thing through!" 
               "The best part of the fun was in the servants' hall," said Uncle Joseph, laughing; "I happened to go in there just after Mr. Flint did, and such a time as that Miss Page had with him I never did see before. He turned all sorts of colors, and tried all sorts of ways to get away from her, but 't was no go-she would have her say, till finally he had to clear out from the room." 
               "She is pretty hard upon him sometimes, and keen too," Mrs. Thornton replied; "did you hear any thing she said?" 
               "I heard her ask him what he thought about the charity seeker now; but I couldn't hear what he said; I saw him turn very red in the face though; that was when he went out of the room." 
               "I presume she had heard him use those words about Richard Morton's wife; he always treated her very coolly; what a sad thing it is for a minister to be so devoted to the world!" 
               "Let us hope there are not many of them," added Mr. Thornton, earnestly; "Mr. Flint's is a rare case, I believe." 
               "Being an exception, it is more noticeable," his wife rejoined; "only think what a change a godly minister would make in this place!" 
               "True; but that responsibility rests not with us," said her husband, smiling; "fortunately, we have none but our own duties to perform." 
               "Lottie knows how to do them," said Uncle Joseph; "she's her mother all over again." 
               "She has that mother's testimony ever before her," said Mark, pointing to the mantel. 
               "So have we," replied Joseph, "if we haven't lost our memory; but somehow, goodness always seemed to come natural to mother, and Lottie too." 
               "Who has more cause for gratitude to them both than I?" exclaimed Mr. Thornton. "In leaving her children that legacy, your blessed mother enriched me more than you all, for it preserved and restored to me a treasure I might else have never found, or if found it might have been dimmed by sin and crime. Then, too, that legacy has given me a living example of a perfection which a strict adherence to its precepts will bring,- has bestowed upon me a heart which, though ever keenly alive to humanity's call, still pulsates with a deep and pure affection,-a wife-like trust." 
               "Well, for my part," said Uncle Joseph, deeply affected, "I never thought Lottie would find any body half good enough for her; but I believe she's got her match now. How strange though, that the boy she took such care of, should have turned out to be yours-her husband's." 
               "The boy you took such care of, you mean," said Charlotte Thornton; "what would he have been without you, Joseph?" 
               "I shouldn't have heard of him if it hadn't been for you, Lottie; but bless his heart, he's done me more good than I ever did him." 
               "We all have a claim upon him," said Mr. Thornton, smiling; "we ought to call him our 'Golden Legacy.'" 
               "Capital!" cried Unele Joseph; "he's better than gold though; but Mark is going to get him after all, it seems." 
               "Yes, I have a loadstone sufficiently powerful to draw even your treasure away," Mark Atherton replied with a smile. 
               "Well, I don't wonder,-Nettie is such a darling," said Uncle Joseph; "when will their wedding be, Mark?" 
               "I told Lonny it should be early in the spring; what do you say, Mr. Thornton?" 
               "I certainly do not wish to delay making such a daughter mine," he replied; "and I know my wife longs to give the child of her heart a mother's blessing." 
               "How little did I ever dream of the possibility of Nettie's playful, childish appellation ever becoming a reality!" exclaimed Charlotte Thornton; "she is dear to me as an own child; I could not ask for more earthly happiness than to see her and Lonny united." 
               During this conversation in the cheerful sittin-groom at Willow Glen, Lonny and Nettie were holding another of a very different character in an adjoining room. What had been said we can only gather from her concluding words:- 
               "Then you do not disapprove of my going, Lonny," she added eagerly; "you do not think I am foolish." 
               "No, I do not disapprove of it, Nettie dear, because I know that you are guided by the purest motives; but I have no hope of your success,-on the contrary, I fear the injury to your feelings in the reception I am confident you will meet." 
               "She could not treat me rudely, Lonny; I will pray her so earnestly to seek a reconciliation with father,-to return to him and strive to make his life happy,-to cast aside all those foolish prejudices, and come back to her home, where she will be received kindly and with affection if she will allow it,-I will plead with her so hard-she cannot say me nay; above all, she cannot turn coldly away." 
               "I could almost believe you, sweet enthusiast, did I not know her with whom you have to deal. I will not venture you there alone; I will accompany you." 
                
               "That will be so nice; only I must see her first alone." 
               "Your father must not know of this visit until it is over; and not then, if it prove as I predict," said Lonny. 
               "She cannot refuse me-she will return, and make us all happy yet," Nettie exclaimed, as they rejoined their friends in the sitting-room. 
               Some two weeks afterwards, Nettie, clinging nervously to her lover's arm, entered a sombre-looking, aristocratic city mansion, and in a trembling voice inquired for Mrs. Mark Atherton. The dark forbidding aspect of the house did not serve to lighten her fears, and it was with an agitation she could scarcely control, that she followed the servant to her mother's presence. 
               "I will remain here," whispered Lonny, seating himself in the parlor; "remember, darling, you have a protector near." 
               Mrs. Atherton had chosen this retreat, when she left her husband's home, as better suited to her pride and station than any other she could command. It was an old Manning estate, occupied only by two maiden sisters of that name-distant relatives of Mrs. Atherton. They had known but little of the circumstances attending her separation from her family, and being lonely, they were quite willing to receive her without much questioning. "What Manning was ever in fault?" they thought, and so Mr. Atherton was set down in their minds at once, as some monster in human form. 
                
               Here Mrs. Atherton had spent the last few months-we will not say pleasantly, or comfortably, or easily, for it was none of these; but here she had stayed, unnoticed by the world without, though eagerly watching from her retreat, every occurrence in that still loved world. The strange revelation at the double wedding at Woodbine Lodge, had not escaped her knowledge, and the train of remembrances it awoke maddened her almost to frenzy. She had heard, too, of Nettie's betrothal to the hated child of Melville Thornton, and her beautiful appearance as Miss Mowbray's first bridesmaid. In her solitude she had preyed upon all these things-every scene in her life had been lived over again; especially that awful-that horrible night, which still hung its heavy curse over her. She remembered too Lonny's prophetic declaration, that the day would come when her words would pain her far more than they did him; and she acknowledged-to her own heart only-that she had suffered far more in her bitterness towards him, than he had ever done. But strange to say, these hours of thought, these sad recollections, had only hardened her heart against her own flesh and blood. She had half expected some overtures from her husband, and gloried in the thought of the triumphant disdain with which she would reject them; but still she was miserable,-forsaken alike of God and man. She had "sown to the wind," and of "the whirlwind" must she reap. 
               Nettie's timid knock at the door, so different from the servant's who usually attended upon her, caused Mrs. Atherton to unclose it herself, and there, face to face, mother and daughter stood for an instant,-but it was only an instant ere Nettie had thrown her arms about the astonished woman, and was pouring forth the burden of her mission. One moment more and Mrs. Atherton had withdrawn from that sweet embrace, and stood with her cold eye fixed upon her pleading daughter. Not a word had been spoken-no emotion was visible on her stern face, as she stood quietly listening till Nettie ceased. Then, as from her silence the dear girl took courage and again threw her arms about her, exclaiming,-"You will come back, dear mother, I know you will, and become a comfort to my father," she dashed those delicate arms from her with violence, and in the same cold sneering tones as of old, spoke,- 
               "Have you done, miss? are you sure you said your lesson correctly-just as your father taught you? because if you have, I have but one answer to give you." 
               "Father does not know-indeed he does not, that I came here," Nettie cried; "I could not bear to think of you, my mother, so desolate and lonely-away from home." 
               "Waste no more such thoughts upon me; I am no longer your mother; I disown you; I cur-" 
               "Stop, stop!" shrieked Nettie; "you shall not say that; any thing else, but not a mother's curse upon me." 
               "Begone then," cried the infuriated woman; "never let me see your baby face again; I hate your father and every body else that belongs to you; begone then, or I shall cur-" 
                
               Nettie closed the door upon the last word, and quickly hastening to Lonny, took his arm, with a simple "Let us go now,-you were right; but I have done my duty;" and they left the miserable woman to her meditations. 
               Could they have glanced back into that room, even Lonny's strong heart would have recoiled at the sight; for there, with the step and wild laugh of a maniac, Mrs. Atherton strode about, her hair falling in loose gray masses over her shoulders as it escaped from the cap she tore off from her head. Now with curses, threats and imprecations, she filled the air, as reason left its throne, and passion reigned triumphant there. Thus must her wretched life be passed, for she has rudely cast aside the last gem which lay in her path-a daughter's love! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The world is a great dance, in which we find 
                        The good and bad have various turns assigned; 
                        But when they've ended the great masquerade, 
                        One goes to glory, th' other to a shade." 
                     
                   
                
               WITH the first warm breath of Spring-the first glad song which burst from its feathered heralds, Lonny led his bride to the altar. It was a quiet family party which assembled at Mark Atherton's, to witness the solemn, yet joyful consummation; for their misfortunes were still too recent-the disgrace too keenly felt, to admit the curious, prying eyes of neighbors and friends to their home. From Daisyside and Willow Glen the happy guests had come, joined too by Mr. Selwyn, who had become endeared to them all by his magnanimous devotion to the beautiful bride. He it was who had clasped that bracelet of diamonds around her snowy arm-had thrown a necklace of the same precious gems about her throat, and with a few whispered words, which reached no ear save hers, had placed in her hand the munificent marriage settlement he had destined for her, as his bride. Nettie received his gift in silence, for how meagre would all words have seemed, to express the deep veneration with which his noble conduct had inspired her!-how meagre to him, in comparison with the warm, eloquent look with which she raised her speaking eyes to his. 
               "That makes me almost ashamed of my present," said Uncle Joseph, when he comprehended the extent of Mr. Selwyn's generosity; "but it's all I've got, Lonny; and if it was a thousand times as large, you would be just as welcome, my dear boy;"-saying which, he handed him a deed of Daisyside and its acres, retaining only a life-lease for himself and wife. 
               "Just like you, noblest of men!" exclaimed Lonny, with deep emotion; "after filling my cup to overflowing with kindness and devotion, thus to give me your all! But, indeed, I cannot accept it. Daisyside shall own no other master, while I live, than he who has made it proverbially a refuge from want and sorrow." 
               "But we shall live there, you know, Lonny," urged Uncle Joseph, and we always calculated it was yours; only we thought that, when you were married, you would surely bring your wife to stay with us. But Mark needs you more than we do; so we can't say any more about that. Now, Lonny boy, do take this; Henny and I both want you to." 
               "No, Uncle Joseph, I cannot, though I dearly prize the beloved home which sheltered my friendless orphanage. But more dearly do I prize the love which has prompted your noble offer." 
                
               "The gift I bring you, dear children," said Aunt Lottie, "is not worldly independence, such as Mr. Selwyn's munificence has provided for you; nor, like my generous brother's, is it all I possess: but it is the most precious of all my earthly treasures. To you, dear Lonny, it is the golden chain which has drawn you to your father's side; to you both-to us all, it may prove the bright link which will unite us at last to her, of whose life it is but an epitome, and whose glorious death was its sure reward. To no other would I commit this sacred trust," continued Aunt Lottie, placing the gift into their united hands; "but I would have the blessed remembrance descend from mother to child through many generations, as a legacy of far more worth than all earth's treasures combined. As my mother, with her dying breath, counselled me to make this the rule of my life, so, with her gift, would I waft her words to your hearts. Be more faithful to the trust than I have been, dear children, that this 'legacy,' brightened by your example, may become a beacon to the world around you." 
               "Don't discourage the poor things, Lottie, by telling them they must be better than you are," said Uncle Joseph, wiping his eye; "nobody can do that; but Lonny and Nettie'll be as good as any body, I'll venture. Come, let's go down now; the minister's waiting, and Mark won't know what to make of it. Here, Henny, we'll go right behind Lottie and her husband." 
               Lonny's eventful life received its crown of blessings, as Mark Atherton placed in his hand hers who had been the little mediator of his boyhood trials-the idol of his later years-the prize for which he had so long prayed and striven. In that solemn hour, when the holy man of God evoked a blessing upon this heaven-born union, who can doubt that a mother's spirit hovered over this loving group?-that, as she gazed, unseen, upon these children of her love, and read, in the high and noble purposes which stirred their hearts, the fulfilment of her prayers-the faithful remembrance of her "legacy," a louder note of joy swelled her unceasing song of gratitude and praise! 
               Around this happy household hearth, where increasing love and joy mark each year's course;-where, loved and honored, he who once from door to door begged the small pittance for himself and "gran'ther," lives on his pure and upright life, blessed himself in blessing others, aided ever by the sweet, golden-haired angel of his youthful dreams;-where, but for memory's dark phantoms, which now and then cross his path, Mark Atherton still leads a happy and useful life, would we love to linger long. 
               To Daisyside, whose yearly jubilees still send forth their joyous streams 'mongst thirsty souls;-whose noble master, as along life's decline he slowly moves,-the gentle, faithful, loving Henrietta at his side,-still yearns to soften human woe, to smooth the rugged paths of poverty and want;-whose light, set upon a hill, shines through all the region round, alluring thither the friendless, homeless, helpless ones,-to Daisyside, "the orphan's home,"-to the cheerful, genial, benevolent face of Joseph Atherton, we would ever turn with fresh delight. 
               And Willow Glen-that quiet retreat of all that is pure and holy in man's nature;-that home of charity, whose sylvan bowers seem peopled with angel life;-whose ever-flowing tide wafts back its freight of prayers and blessings;-whose green branches still wave and nod with Heaven's approval;-where could we find rest, if not with thee!-where else seek for one on earth, whose gentle, heavenly mission makes such near approach to our "Great Exemplar," as Aunt Lottie? 
               Over ocean's trackless path, too, would we follow with joy the steps of those, whose life-lessons will ne'er be forgotten, though pomp and splendor ever surround them;-of Richard Morton, the honored master of Mowbray Hall;-of Lucille, who watches, with proud and happy eye, the superiority every where conceded to her noble husband;-of Mr. Ashton, whose "delusion" increases by daily companionship with his beloved wife;-of all those who have been taught, by a simple ruse, the only test of worth. 
               Even on the darker shades of the picture,-into the lonely room where, in alternate ravings and flashes of reason, the once proud and haughty Mrs. Atherton wears away her wretched life;-into that sanctum where still, with hardened heart, and eye undimmed for gold, he sits, whose humble calling has merged into a "larger sphere of usefulness;" and who now speaks to the world with a "trumpet-tongue;"-"flinty" still, and filled with mammon;-upon these dark shades we might dwell, more with profit than pleasure. But our "story" is told-our mission completed-the evervarying "phases" of life caught as we passed along. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
            D. APPLETON & COMPANY'S PUBLICATIONS. 
            
               Should it be impossible to procure any of the Books on this List, they will be forwarded by the Publishers to any address in the United States, POST-PAID, on receipt of the price affixed. 
             
               MISCELLANEOUS. 
               Acton; or the Circle of Life. 12mo. Cloth, 1 25 
               Aguilar G. The Mother's Recompense. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               --Women of Israel. 2vols. 12mo. Cloth, 1 50 
               --Vale of Cedars. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               --Woman's Friendship. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               --The Days of Bruce. 12mo. 2 vols. Cloth, 1 50 
               --Home Scenes and Heart Studies. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               --The above in uniform sets, 8 vols. extra cloth, 6 00 8 vols. half calf, 13 00 
               Alsop's Charms of Fancy. A Poem in Four Cantos. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Amelia's Poems. 1 vol. 12mo. Cloth, 1 25 Gilt edges, 1 50 
               Annals (The) of San Francisco. By F. Soul, J. H. Gihon, and J. Nisbet. Illust. with 150 engravings, and many fine portraits. 1vol. 8vo. Cloth, 3 50 or in roan, marble edges, 4 00 or in half calf extra, 4 50 
               Agnel's Book of Chess. A Complete Guide to the Game. With illustrations by R. W. Weir. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Anderson's Practical Mercantile Letter-Writer. 12mo. 1 00 
               Arnold, Dr. History of Rome. 1 vol. 8vo. Cloth, 3 00 Half calf, 4 00 
               --Lectures on Modern History. Edited by Prof. Reed. 12mo. Cloth, 1 25 
               Arthur. The Successful Merchant. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Appletons' Cyclopdia of Biography, Foreign and American. Edited by the Rev. Dr. Hawks. 1 handsome vol. royal 8vo. with over 600 engravings Cloth, 4 00 Or in sheep, 4 50 In half calf or in half mor., 5 00 Full calf, 6 00 
               --Library Manual. 8vo. Half bound, 1 25 
               --New Railway & Steam Navigation Guide. Published Monthly, under the supervision of the Railway Companies. 16mo. Paper, 25 
               --Travellers' Guide through the United States and Canadas. Describing all the Important Places, their Historical Associations, &c. The whole accompanied by Routes of Travel, &c. 1vol. 12mo. 
               --New General Catalogue. 8vo. pp. 242. Paper. 25 
             
             
             
               MISCELLANEOUS-Continued. 
               Atlas. Appletons' Modern Atlas of the Earth, on 34 Maps. Colored. Royal 8vo. Half bound, 3 50 
               --Cornell's New General Atlas. 1 handsome vol. 4to. 1 00 
               Attache (The) in Madrid; or Sketches of the Court of Isabella II. 1vol. 12mo. 100 
               Baldwin's Flush Times in Mississippi and Alabama. 12mo. Illustrated. 1 25 
               --Party Leaders. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Barker (Jacob) Incidents in the Life of. 8vo. 2 portraits. Cloth, 1 00 
               Barth's Travels in Africa. (in press.) 
               Bartlett. Personal Narrative of Explorations in Texas, New Mexico, California, &c. &c. Maps and Illustrations. 2 vols. 8vo. 4 00 
               Bartlett. The same, in half calf extra. 7 00 
               --The same, in full calf extra. 8 00 
               --The same, cheap edition, in 1 vol., bound. 3 50 
               Basil. A Story of Modern Life. By W. Wilkie Collins. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Benton's Thirty Years' View; or, a History of the Working of the American Government for thirty years, from 1820 to 1850. 2 very large vols., 8vo. pp. 1527, well printed,  
                     Cloth, 5 00 
                     Sheep, 6 00 
                     In half calf or half mor., 7 00 
                     In full calf, 8 00 
                  
                
               Abridgment of the Debates of Congress, from 1789 to 1856. From Gales and Seaton's Annals of Congress; from their Register of Debates; and from the Official Reported Debates, by John C. Rives. By the Author of "The "Thirty Years' View." Vol. I. (to be in 15) preparing. Price per vol. 3 00 
               Beyminstre. By the author of "Lena." 1 vol. (in press). 
               Bridgman's, The Pilgrims of Boston and their Descendants. 1 large vol., 8vo. Cloth, 3 00 
               Butler's Philosophy of the Weather, and a Guide to its Changes. 12mo. Cloth 1 00 
               Brace's Fawn of the Pale Faces. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Brownell's Poems. 12mo. Boards, 75 
               --Ephemeron; a Poem. 12mo. Paper, 25 
               Bryant's Poems. New edition, revised throughout. 2 vols. 12mo.  
                     Cloth, 2 00 
                     Extra cloth, gilt edges, 2 50 
                     Morocco, antique or extra 6 00 
                     Half morocco, gilt, 4 00 
                     Half calf, antique or extra, 4 00 
                     Full calf, antique or extra, 5 00 
                     "In 1 vol. 18mo. Cloth, 63 
                     Gilt edges, 75 
                     Antique morocco, 2 00 
                  
                
               Bryant's What I Saw in California. With Map. 12mo. 1 25 
               Burnett's Notes on the North-Western Territory. 8vo. Cloth, 2 00 
               Burton's Encyclopdia of Wit and Humour. Illustrated. 1 large vol. 8vo. (In press.) 
               Calhoun (J. C.) The Works of (now first collected). 6 vols. 8vo. per vol. 2 00  
                     --Sold separately: 
                     Vol. 1. ON GOVERNMENT. 
                     2. REPORTS & LETTERS. 
                     3, 4. SPEECHES. 
                     5, 6. REPORTS & LETTERS. Or, sets in 6 vols. half calf, 20 00 Or, sets in 6 vols. full calf, 24 00 
                  
                
             
             
             
               MISCELLANEOUS-Continued. 
               Captain Canot; or, Twenty Years of a Slaver's Life. Edited by Brantz Mayer. 1 vol. 12mo. Illustrated. Cloth, 1 25 
               Chapman's Instructions to Young Marksmen on the Improved American Rifle. 16mo. Illustrated. Cloth, 1 25 
               Chestnut Wood. A Tale. By Liele Linden. 2 vols. 12mo. Cloth, 1 75 
               Clark, L. G. Knick-knacks from an Editor's Table. 12mo. Illustrated. 1 25 
               Clarke (Mrs. Cowden). The Iron Cousin. A Tale. 1 vol. 12mo. Cloth, 1 25 
               Cockburn's (Lord) Memorials of His Time. 1 thick vol. 12mo. Beautifully printed. Cloth, 1 25 
               Cooley, A. J. The Book of Useful Knowledge. Containing 6,000 Practical Receipts in all branches of Arts, Manufactures, and Trades. 8vo. Illustrated. Bound, 1 25 
               Coit, Dr. History of Puritanism. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Coleridge's Poems. 1 neat vol. 12mo.  
                     Cloth, 1 00 
                     Gilt edges, 1 50 
                     Morocco antique, or extra, 3 50 
                  
                
               Coming's Preservation of Health and Prevention of Disease. 12mo. 75 
               Cornwall, N. E. Music as It Was, and as It Is. 12mo. Cloth, 63 
               Cousin's Course of Modern Philosophy. Translated by Wight. 2 vols. 8vo.  
                     Cloth, 3 00 
                     Half calf, 5 00 
                     Full calf, 6 00 
                  
                
               Cousin's Philosophy of the Beautiful. 16mo. Cloth, 62 
               Cousin's Lectures on the True, the Beautiful, and the Good. Translated by Wight. 8vo.  
                     Cloth, 1 50 
                     Half calf, 2 50 
                     Full calf, 3 00 
                  
                
               --The Youth of Madame De Longueville. 1 vol. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Cowper's Homer's Iliad. Revised by Southey, with Notes by Dwight. 1 vol.  
                     Cloth, 1 25 
                     Gilt edges, 1 50 
                     Antique or extra morocco, 4 00 
                  
                
               Creasy (Prof.) Rise and Progress of the English Constitution. 1vol. 1 00 
               Croswell. A Memoir of the Rev. W. Croswell, D.D. 1 vol. 8vo. Cloth, 2 00 
               Cust (Lady.) The Invalid's Own Book. 12mo. Cloth, 50 
               D'Abrantes (Duchess.) Memoirs of Napoleon, his Court and Family. 2 large vols. 8vo. Portraits. Cloth, 4 00 
               --The same, in half calf extra or antique. 7 00 
               --The same, in full calf extra or antique. 8 00 
               De Bow's Industrial Resources, Statistics, &c., of the United States. 8vo. 3vols. bound in 1 vol. Cloth, 5 00 
               De Custine's Russia. Trans, from the French. Thick 12mo. Cloth, 1 25 
               Dew's Digest of Ancient and Modern History. 8vo. Cloth, 2 00 
               Don Quixote de La Mancha. Translated from the Spanish. Illustrated with engravings. 8vo.  
                     Cloth. 2 00 
                     Half calf. 3 00 
                     Full calf, 4 00 
                  
                
             
             
             
               MISCELLANEOUS-Continued. 
               Drury, A. H. Light and Shade; or, the Young Artist. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Dix's Winter in Madeira, and Summer in Spain, &c. 12mo. Illustrated. Cloth, 1 00 
               Dumas (Alex.) The Foresters. A Tale. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               --Philibert; or, the European Wars of the 16th Century. 12mo. Cloth, 1 25 
               Dumont's Life Sketches from Common Paths. A Series of American Tales. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Dupuy, A. E. The Conspirator. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Dwight's Introduction to the Study of Art. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Ellen Parry; or, Trials of the Heart. 12mo. Cloth, 63 
               Ellis, Mrs. Hearts & Homes; or, Social Distinctions. A Story. Cloth, 1 50 
               Evelyn's Life of Mrs. Godolphin. Edited by the Bishop of Oxford. 16mo. Cloth, 50 
               Ewbank. The World a Workshop. 16mo. Cloth, 75 
               Fay, T. S. Ulric; or, the Voices. 12mo. Boards, 75 
               Farmingdale. A Tale. By Caroline Thomas. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               French's Historical Collections of Louisiana. Part III. 8vo. Cloth, 1 50 
               Foote's Africa and the American Flag. 1 vol. 12mo, Illust. Cloth, 1 50 
               Fullerton, Lady G. Lady Bird. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Garland's Life of John Randolph. 2 vols. in 1. 8vo. Portraits. 1 50  
                     Half calf, 2 50 
                     Full calf, 3 00 
                  
                
               Gibbes' Documentary History of the American Revolution, 1781, 1782. 1 vol. 8vo. Cloth, 1 50 
               --The same. 2d vol. 1764 to 1776. 1 vol. 8vo. Cloth, 1 50 
               Ghostly Colloquies. By the Author of "Letters from Rome," &c. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Gil Blas. Translated from the French by Le Sage. Illustrated with over 500 spirited engravings. 1 large vol. 8vo. Extra cloth,  
                     Gilt edges, 3 00 
                     Half calf, 3 50 
                     Full calf, 4 00 
                  
                
               Gilfillan, Geo. Gallery of Literary Portraits. Second Series. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Goddard's Gleanings. Some Wheat-Some Chaff. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Goethe's Iphigenia in Tauris. A Drama in Five Acts. Translated from the German by C. J. Adler. 12mo. Boards, 75 
               Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield. 12mo. Illustrated, Cloth, 75 Gilt edges, 1 00 
               Gore, Mrs. The Dean's Daughter. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Gould's (W. M.) Zephyrs from Italy and Sicily. 12mo. Colored plate, 1 00 
               Grant's Memoirs of an American Lady. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Griffith's (Mattie) Poems. 12mo. Cloth, 75 Gilt edges, 1 25 
               Guizot's History of Civilization. 4 vols. 12mo. Cloth, 3 50 Half calf, 8 00 
               -Democracy in France. 12mo. Paper, 25 
             
             
             
               MISCELLANEOUS-Continued. 
               Gurowski's Russia As It Is. 1 vol. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Hall, B. R. The New Purchase; or, Early Years in the Far West. Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, 1 25 
               Harry Muir. A Scottish Story. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Hamilton's Philosophy. Arranged and Edited by O. W. Wight 1vol. 8vo. Cloth, 1 50 
               --The Same, in full calf, 3 00 
               Heartsease; or, The Brother's Wife. By the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe." 2 vols. 12mo. Cloth, 1 50 
               Heir of Redclyffe (The). A Tale. 2 vols. 12mo. Cloth, 1 50 
               Heloise; or, The Unrevealed Secret. By Talvi. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Holmes's Tempest and Sunshine; or, Life in Kentucky. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               --The English Orphans. A Tale. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Home is Home. A Domestic Story. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Home; or, The Ways of the World. By Mrs. Reeves. 1 vol. (In press.) 
               Household Mysteries. By the Author of "Light and Darkness." 1vol. 12mo. 1 00 
               Hunt's Pantological System of History. Folio,. Cloth, 3 00 
               Iconographic Cyclopdia of Science, Literature, and Art, Systematically Arranged. Illustrated with 5 00 fine steel plate engravings. 6 vols. Half morocco, 40 00 
               --Or in full morocco,. 50 00 
               --Or in separate divisions:- 
               The Laws of Nature; or, Mathematics, Astronomy, Physics, and Meteorology Illustrated. With an Atlas of twenty-nine steel plates, containing twelve hundred illustrations. 2 vols. Cloth, 5 00 
               The Sciences; or, Chemistry, Mineralogy, and Geology Illustrated. With an Atlas of twenty-four steel plates, containing one thousand illustrations. 2 vols. Cloth, 3 00 
               The Anatomy of the Human Body; or, Anthropology Illustrated. With an Atlas of twenty-two steel plates, containing six hundred illustrations. 2 vols. Cloth, 3 00 
               The Countries and Cities of the World; or, Geography Illustrated. Including a Complete German and English Geographical Glossary. With an Atlas of forty-four steel plates, containing Geographical Maps and Plans of Cities. 2 vols. Cloth, 5 00 
               The Customs and Costumes of People of Ancient and Modern Times; or, History and Ethnology Illustrated. With an Atlas of eighty-one steel plates, containing fourteen hundred illustrations. 2 vols. Cloth, 8 00 
               The Warfare of All Ages; or, Military Sciences Illustrated. With an Atlas of fifty-one steel plates, containing fifteen hundred illustrations. 2 vols. Cloth, 5 00 
             
             
             
               MISCELLANEOUS-Continued. 
               The Navigation of All Ages; or, Naval Science Illustrated. With an Atlas of thirty-two steel plates, conta ning six hundred illustrations. 2 vols. Cloth, 4 00 
               The Art of Building in Ancient and Modern Times; or, Architecture Illustrated. With an Atlas of sixty steel plates, containing 1100 illustrations. 2 vols. Cloth, 6 00 
               The Religions of Ancient and Modern Times; or, Mythology Illustrated. With an Atlas of thirty steel plates, containing eight hundred illustrations. 2 vols. Cloth, 4 00 
               The Fine Arts Illustrated. Being a Complete History of Sculpture, Painting, and the Graphic Arts, including a Theory of the Art of Drawing. With an Atlas of twenty-six steel plates, containing five hundred illustrations. 2 vols. Cloth, 4 00 
               Technology Illustrated. Being a Series of Treatises on the Construction of Roads, Bridges Canals, Hydraulic Engines Flouring and Spinning Mills, and on the Principal Proceedings in Cotton Manufacture, Coining, Mining, Metallurgy. Agriculture, &c. With an Atlas of thirty-five steel plates, containing 1,100 engravings. 2 vols. Cloth, 4 00 
               A very few copies only remain of the above. Early orders are necessary to secure them. 
               IO. A Tale of the Ancient Fane. By Barton. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Irish (The) Abroad and at Home, at the Court and in the Camp. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Isham's Mud Cabin; or, Character and Tendency of British Institutions. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               James, Henry. The Nature of Evil, considered in a Letter to the Rev. Edward Beecher, D.D. 1 vol. 16mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               James, G. P. R. and M. B. Field. Adrien; or, The Clouds of the Mind. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               Jameson (Mrs.) Commonplace Book of Thoughts, Memories, and Fancies. 12mo. Cloth, 75 Half calf extra, 1 75 
               Johnson, A. B. The Meaning of Words. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               Johnston's Chemistry of Common Life. Illustrated with numerous woodcuts. 2 vols. 12mo.  
                     Cloth, 2 00 
                     In sheep, 2 25 
                     In half calf, 4 00 
                  
                
               Juno Clifford. A Tale. By a Lady. With illustrations. 12mo. Cloth, 1 25 
               Kavanagh, Julia. Women of Christianity, Exemplary for Piety and Charity. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               --Nathalie. A Tale. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               --Madeleine. 12mo. Cloth, 75 
               --Daisy Burns. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 
               --Grace Lee. Cloth, 1 00 
               --Rachel Gray. 12mo. Cloth, 0 75 
               --The same. 6 volumes. Half calf, 10 00 
               Keats' Poetical Works. 1 vol. 12mo. Cloth, 1 00 Gilt edges, 1 50 Antique or extra morocco, 3 50 
             
          
       
   
