
    ----CITATION----
        McClain, Mary W.. Daisy Ward's Work .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7176
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
             
          
          
             
             
               DAISY WARD'S WORK. 
             
            BY MARY W. MCLAIN, AUTHOR OF "LIFTING THE VEIL," "BROKEN IDOLS," ETC. 
             
               
                  "For his heart was in his work, and the heart giveth grace unto every art."
                
             
            
               LORING, Publisher, 
               COR. BROMFIELD AND WASHINGTON STREETS, BOSTON.
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by A. K. LORING, In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
            
               Rockwell & Churchill, Printers.
             
          
          
             
            WHILE it is hoped that this book will be interesting to all, it is especially intended for those, who, feeling in themselves the artistic instinct, hesitate from timidity, or want of instruction, to cultivate it. If it should be the means of urging on, and helping any such person, its aim will be accomplished. 
            The writer, who felt the need of just such simple knowledge as is woven into this story, would like now, in giving it to the public, to connect with it, as a token of gratitude to a kind friend and teacher, and a faithful exponent of what is true and noble in an artist's work and life, the name of Dr. William Rimmer, of Boston, who has opened to many, who, like Daisy Ward, were striving to enter in, the door of the wonderful world of Art. 
          
          
             
             
             
               "Soft, my sister! not a word! 
               By speaking, we prove only we can speak, 
               Which he, the man here, never doubted. What 
               He doubts, is whether we can do the thing. 
               bring your statue,- 
               And if'tis e'er so little like the god 
               Who looks out from the marble silently, 
               there's no need to speak; 
               The universe shall henceforth speak for you, 
               And witness, 'She who did this thing was born 
               To do it,-claims her license in her work.'" 
             
          
       
      
         
            Daisy Ward's work 
             
             
            DAISY WARD'S WORK. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               HOMELESS. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "None saith, Stay with mo, for thy face is fair. 
                           None saith, Stay with me, for thy voice is sweet." 
                        
                      
                     E. B. B. 
                   
                
               IN the great city of New York, with its many thousand homes, a little girl, slight and delicate, wandered, homeless. 
               The cold winds blew about her thinly clad form, and the white snows of winter crowded around her little, bare feet, as she crept through the desolate streets, at twilight. 
               Many happy homes sent out their warm rays of cheerful light over the cold snow, but not one of them opened to take her in. Tables full of good cheer were set, waiting for the gathering of the families around them, and she had not a crust of bread. Many clean white beds and downy pillows waited to receive the curly heads, when, the day's play being over, they would be sent with kisses from loving fathers and mothers to the pleasant rest that awaited them, and she-when, worn out with hunger ger and cold, she could no longer walk, about-would creep under some steps, thankful when they were such that they kept off some of the wind, and prevented the snow from drifting in. 
               On and on she walked, very hungry and very cold, and yet so used to both that she hardly knew how much she suffered, till at last she came to a flight of steps, upon which was spread a wide piece of carpet, from top to bottom, and out to the street. It felt very warm to her naked feet, and she stood on it for some time, thinking how comfortable she was. Then she ventured to go up the steps, slowly and hesitatingly, to the top, and there was the outer door open, showing a pretty little vestibule, filled with the soft glow of the light flowing through the glass windows. 
               She entered the door, and, tired and stiff with cold, dropped down on the floor, thinking she would rest a few moments in the unwontedty warm atmosphere, before she "moved on." 
               She leaned her head against the door-way, and, congratulating herself that the policeman Would never think of looking for her up there, she fell asleep. 
               But the little outcast was to have only a few moments of blissful forgetfulness. A gruff voice soon sounded in her ears, and made her start to her feet. 
               "Why, what imperance! Get out from here, you little beggar! I'll set a perlice on you, spying around here; get out!" 
               She glided quickly down the steps; not, however, before she saw inside of the open door. It was so beautiful in there, that it gave her a strange choking feeling in her throat, so that she could hardly draw her breath. 
               The strange feeling became worse, when, both doors being thrown wide open, and a perfect flood of light pouring out, she saw, descending through it, a lady wrapped in soft white drapery, out of which rose her head, shining like a star. 
               She descended the steps so slowly that the child had a full sight of her in the warm light, and stepped into a carriage that drove up; the door was shut, and it drove off. The man who had turned her off pulled up the carpet, shut the doors of the house with a slam, and she was left in the dark, colder and darker for the sight she had just seen. 
               The poor little child heaved a deep sigh, tears gathered in her eyes, as, drawing her thin, tattered shawl closer about her, she turned away and walked on down the streets, feeling afresh how cold and lonely they were. 
               She had walked on for some time, when she saw another broad stream of light shining across the pavement. She went on and stood in it, hoping that it would warm her, for she was bitter cold. 
               The doors through which the light shone were wide open, and, seeing no one around to drive her away or speak roughly to her, she crept in quietly, and finding she could not push open the heavy inside doors, she went up a flight of stairs at one side, and entered the gallery, which was very dimly lighted. 
               She had never been inside of a church before, though she knew the outside of them well, for in this Christian country of ours the outside of God's house is familiar and free even to the poorest of his children; and she did not know what to make of the long rows of empty seats, softly cushioned with crimson. The lights in the church were low, for it was still too early for service, and it looked very strange and beautiful to the child, as she leaned over the railing of the gallery and looked down into the body of the church. 
               The great pillars reaching from floor to ceiling, the wreaths of cedar and box festooned on the walls, and from pillar to pillar, the soft, dim light,-all affected the lonely little child very deeply; but, more than all, the calm and quiet that reigned were delightful to her, it was so different from the usual din and noise of the streets. 
               Why it made her feel so happy she did not know or stop to think, but, childlike, just let it sink into her heart and enjoyed it. The warm atmosphere and the quiet soon affected her, making her forget her thin covering, and she leaned on the railings, watching the flickering lights dancing about on the evergreens, and casting great fantastic shadows from them on the walls and floor. 
               What queer shapes those shadows formed themselves into as she watched them! How they stretched out long and thin, and then gathered all up in a knot only to spread out again; then they came dancing up to her with waiters full of good things to eat, such as she saw in the restaurant windows. She thought it was very funny that they should do so, and tried to open her eyes wider to see them. But her eyelids were tied together, and she could not open them at all; so she sank down on the floor, and, putting her head on a footstool, went to sleep. 
               She did not know how long she had slept, when the organ-playing waked her. Confused, she opened wide her eyes. The church was fully lighted up now, and the deep, full tones of the organ bore up the voices of many children. 
               They were singing a Christmas anthem, and they had sung several verses before she could distinguish the words. At last, her ear more accustomed to the organ, she heard these words:- 
                      
                        "Let us open wide our hearts, 
                        Let us not be like the Inn; 
                        When we hear the Christ-child knock, 
                        Ope the door and let him in. 
                     
                      
                        "For the Christ-child comes to all, 
                        Whatsoever their degree; 
                        Brings them gifts of love and peace; 
                        In his kingdom makes them free. 
                     
                      
                        "'Peace on earth, good-will to men,' 
                        Raise the anthem to the sky, 
                        And, in seeking that, we'll give 
                        'Glory to our God on high!'" 
                     
                  
                
               Hardly knowing what to make of it, and afraid to move for fear of being sent out, she lay quite still and listened to the music. It sounded very beautifully, and the words had a familiar sound that she could not understand. 
               The name of the Christ-child seemed so natural and home-like to her. What was it she knew about him? She tried to remember. She sat up on the stool, and, peeping over the railing of the gallery, listened to the minister speaking, hoping she might hear something more. 
               She was gratified, for he was talking to the children about the Christ-child, of whom she wanted to hear. He told them how the beautiful star had shone in the East, leading the wise men to where He lay, and how the shepherds, watching their flocks by night, saw the angels of the Lord, who told them not to be afraid, for they brought tidings of great joy, that a Saviour and King was born to them, which was Christ the Lord. 
               Then he spoke of how the inns in Bethlehem were all so full of the great people who were rich and powerful in the world, that they had nowhere for this wonderful baby to lie; so He was born in a stable, among the cattle, and there the wise men found Him and worshipped Him. 
               As he told the story over, the child, listening with eager eyes, gradually remembered what it was she knew of the Christ-child. The same old story her mother, her dear, pretty mamma, had told her. Before her father died, she had had a beautiful Christmas-tree, and a lovely Christ-child in the branches above, and then her parents had told her of the real child Jesus, and what he had come on earth to accomplish, how he loved little children and blessed them, and that, if she was good, he would love and bless her. 
               Then her father had died, and they had left the house in which they lived, and she did not have any more beautiful toys and clothes, often not anything to eat, and her mother had to sew all the time, till she died. 
                
               Then came the worst trouble, for she had no one to take care of her; they told her that her pretty mamma was dead, and she was turned out into the streets, had to beg for everything she had to eat, and sleep wherever she could find a place. 
               So she had forgotten everything about the Christ-child and being good, though her mother had told her, the last thing, that she must always remember him, and he would take care of her. 
               And now the story brought back to her memory her mother, her father, her happy home, until, forgetting where she was, she laid her head down on the footstool again, crying as if her heart would break. 
               But the organ was playing and the children singing again, and no one heard the sobs of the lonely, friendless child, and she, with the unconscious self-control learned by her life in the street, soon stopped crying, and lay still, full of the childish sorrow that would have been pitiful even in a grown person. 
               At last kindly sleep hid her trouble from her; she lay there dreaming of the Christ-child and her mother, and the congregation dispersed, the lights in the church were all put out and the church shut up, leaving the child still asleep on the floor of the gallery. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               UNDER SHELTER. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Still as for himself the infant Jesus 
                           In his little ones asks food and rest." 
                        
                         
                           "Help us, Lord! not these thy poor ones only, 
                           They are with us always, and shall be; 
                           Help the blindness of our hearts, and teach us 
                           In thy homeless ones to succor thee." 
                        
                      
                     A. A. PROCTOR. 
                   
                
               MORNING broke before the little wanderer, all unused to such a resting-place, woke from the sleep into which she had cried herself the night before. 
               The winter sun was shining brightly through the stained-glass windows, and as the child woke and rubbed her eyes she could not imagine where she was; she who usually woke up cold and stiff, and was driven off by some housemaid, or routed out from under the steps and told to "move on," by some policeman, to be lying on this soft, pretty carpet, and to be warm. 
               It was rather narrow, to be sure, where she was lying, and as she sat up, to get more room to stretch her limbs, she remembered where she was, and how she had strayed into the church the night before. 
               With a sigh of relief that she had not been found, but had one good night's rest, she rose up and started to open the door and commence her usual day's wandering in search of something to eat. But the doors were all locked, and there was no way of escape for her. 
               She was not frightened, for her life in the streets had made being locked up in the church a comparatively unimportant thing. It was warm and bright, and she thought she was as well off there as anywhere else, except that she was so hungry. She had not had anything to eat since early the morning before, and then it was not much. But there was nothing to do, she could not get out, and she had nothing to eat. 
               She had recourse to a plan that she often used when hungry or cold. It was to keep herself amused and occupied as much as she could. She tried it now. She counted the windows in the church, she counted the railings of the opposite gallery, the pews upstairs and down; counted until there was nothing more to count, then counted them backwards. Having used that up, and feeling hungrier than ever on such unsubstantial fare, she walked down towards the choir-loft, and, climbing up on the railing, stepped over the partition that separated the two. In climbing down on the other side, however, she fell, from weakness. 
               She picked herself up in a moment or two, wondering that it did not hurt her more, only made her feel so hungry that she could hardly walk straight. She held on to the railing and walked along. On the other side of the choir-loft she found a door that opened, and, going out, she followed the steps that led downstairs. 
               They seemed so steep, so far from one to another, that she thought she would never get to the bottom of them. At last, however, she did reach the bottom, and went into the body of the church. She wandered around in an aimless manner, feeling that, if she stopped, she could never move again,-up one aisle, and down another, and up another, until finally everything became so hazy to her that she could hardly see her way. She was at the top of the church, and, the chancel steps looking soft, she thought she would sit down on them and rest a few minutes, she was so dreadfully hungry. She looked down to see if her feet were still there, for she had a general impression that they were gone, and all the rest of her was gone except her head and a great pain; then, as she sat down and dropped her head on the soft cushions of the steps above her, she lost the pain and her head too. 
               The child had fainted from want of food. 
               A sunbeam, creeping along the floor, rested on her and crept up to the pale face and the tangled golden curls. There was more life in it than there was in her, and it passed away, leaving her lying there, and went slowly up the wall till it was lost in the shadows under the roof. 
               Where was the Christ-child, that one of his little ones was lying so still and helpless on his church steps? 
               While the sunbeams were still hovering uncertainly on the borders of the upper darkness, two people came into the organ-loft,-a man and a woman; she was singing, in a clear, full voice:- 
                      
                        "I've waited for the Lord; he inclined unto me, 
                        He heard my complaint, he heard my prayer. 
                        How blessed are hey who hope and trust in the Lord!" 
                     
                  
                
                
               As she finished, the man, who had taken his seat and opened the organ, played a soft accompaniment and took up the same strain. The two voices filled the church with their harmony, and they sang one piece after another. 
               But the attention of the lady rather flagged, and presently she laid her hand on the gentleman's arm. 
               "I can't sing any more, Norman," she said; "I feel restless and full of memories to-night. I will go down into the church and grow quiet there. You play for me the music I love." 
               He looked up in her face with tender eyes, and said:- 
               "Poor child!" 
               She stooped and kissed his forehead, over which some gray hairs were beginning to show, and, leaving his side, went down into the church, and softly and reverentially walked up the middle aisle. 
               She said truly that her heart was full of memories. It was just a year ago that she had followed up this aisle the coffin of her only child, and now she lived over again that sad day and walk, until, lifting her eyes, she almost expected to see the flower-covered coffin before her. 
               But it was almost as sad a sight that met them,-the little child lying on the steps. She started back for a moment, half in fright, then, the mother's heart in her conquering, she turned and called to her husband. 
               "Norman! Norman! come down here; here is a dead child;" and, kneeling down, she raised the little one in her arms. 
                
               As much started as she was, he rose from the organ, and, seeing her kneeling by the chancel steps, hastened to join her, followed by the boy who had been blowing the organ. 
               "O Norman," she said, with quivering lips, as he joined her, "see this little dead child lying here! What can it mean?" 
               "Is she dead?" he asked, kneeling down by her, "or only fainted?" He felt her heart and her pulse. They were both faintly throbbing. "She is not dead, Marion, see, her heart is still beating; she is sick or famished. Look, how thinly she is clad, and her bare feet, too, poor little bairn! Let us take her home, and see what we can do for her." 
               He took off his overcoat and wrapped it around her, and, taking her up in his arms, they started homeward. Fortunately it was not far, and they soon reached there, and carried the child to a warm bedroom. 
               "Poor little white face!" said Mrs. Ward, tenderly patting it, as they unwrapped her from the heavy coat and her own thin shawl. "How long she must have gone without food to have fainted! What shall we do for her?" 
               "Rub her hands and feet, and presently we'll give her a spoonful of wine. Ring the bell and tell the cook to make some beef-tea, and send up some bread and milk. I hardly know what to do. To think of a child's fainting from hunger! It is dreadful." 
               After rubbing her hands and feet, and using every restorative they could think of, she at length became conscious enough to take a spoonful of wine and milk, then presently another, and another. They were afraid of giving her too much, and yet it was very hard to resist the famished look in her eyes, for she said nothing; so presently they ventured to give her a little beef-tea and some bread. 
               After a while, when she had had enough to keep the needs of the poor little body from being uppermost in her mind, she began to look around at her new surroundings, then at the two kindly faces bending over her. She watched them for some time, then said, in a very weak voice:- 
               "Is this heaven, and are you my pretty mamma and papa?" and she tried to reach up a weak hand to pat the lady's face as she stooped low to hear what she said; but the little hand was not equal to the effort, and fell powerless at her side. 
               Tears sprung to Mrs. Ward's eyes, as she said:- 
               "No, little one, this is not heaven, and we are not your papa and mamma." 
               "I suppose I have not been good enough," the child said, in a weary voice. "Mamma said I must be good, and then I'd see her in heaven. But it is so hard to be good when you don't have anything to eat; so I forgot it, till the man told about the Christ-child, and that made me remember." 
               Mr. and Mrs. Ward exchanged a glance of surprise, and she asked:- 
               "What man was it?" 
               "The man in the church." 
                
               "Was that when you went in the church? Have you been there ever since?" 
               "Yes'm." 
               "And not had anything to eat?" Mrs. Ward's voice was growing more surprised and grieved. 
               "No'm, I had a piece of bread that morning; but it wasn't a very big piece, and I was very cold and hungry; so I went into the church, for it looked warm. No one was there, and I was afraid a policeman would see me, so I hid upstairs." 
               "And stayed there all night?" 
               "Yes'm, I reckon so. I went to sleep, and then I woke up, and ever so many children were singing, then the man told about the Christ-child, and it made me remember my pretty mamma, and I cried so hard that I went to sleep again; it was so warm and good that I kept going to sleep. Then, when I woke up, it was day, and I was awful hungry; but it was locked up and I couldn't get out, so I stayed; and I got hungrier and hungrier, then I climbed over and fell down." 
               "Did it hurt you much?" 
               "No, it only made me more hungry. Then I went way downstairs, and I was so tired whenever I stopped I felt as if I could never go on again. Then I came to the soft steps, and was so hungry and tired that I couldn't go any more, and I didn't know where my feet were, so I went to sleep again; indeed, I didn't mean to, but I couldn't help it, for I couldn't get out, and when I woke up here I was in this beautiful bed. I haven't been on a bed before since my mamma died." 
                
               "Poor, dear little child!" Mrs. Ward said, and, notwithstanding the dirt, she kissed her. 
               "That's the way my mamma used to do when she put me to bed," the child said. "Nobody's kissed me since she died." 
               "Norman, I believe I'll give her a good warm bath the first thing, while you run around to the church and shut the organ." 
               "Of course, clean little woman, a bath is the first thing with you; only don't let it be too warm, it will be weakening to her. I will hurry back." 
               "Put on your overcoat, Norman," she called to him over the banisters; "don't forget it." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               ONE OF HIS LITTLE ONES. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The poor weak child will need her; 
                        Oh, who can dare complain, 
                        When God sends a new duty 
                        To comfort each new pain!" 
                     
                   
                
               MRS. WARD came back into the bedroom, and, telling the child she was going to give her a nice warm bath, went into the bath-room to arrange the tub. Taking up the little one in her arms,-for she tottered when she walked, like a young child,-she gave her a washing, such as only a very clean woman can give a very dirty child. 
               When she came out of it she would hardly have been recognized, and Mrs. Ward could see that, street beggar though she was, she must have had a lady and gentleman for her father and mother. Her little hands and feet, though rough with the cold, were delicately made, and her laugh, when the soap slipped out of Mrs. Ward's hand into the tub, was sweet and childlike. She had an old way of speaking; but that could easily be accounted for by her life in the street. 
               They had become quite intimate over the soap and bath-tub by the time Mr. Ward came home, and the child, wrapped up in a sack of Mrs. Ward's and a blanket, and carried in her arms, they met him in the sitting-room with a laugh such as had not sounded through the house for many months. 
               "Give her some more beef-tea, Marion," he said, "now you've scrubbed her to your heart's content, for I know she must be weak." 
               He brought the tea, and, kneeling down on the hearth-rug in front of the two, he fed it out to her spoonful by spoonful. 
               "What is this you've got round her, Marion?" he asked, touching the wide open sleeve through which her little arm poked, as she stretched it out for a piece of bread. 
               "One of my dressing-sacks," she answered,-"the only thing I could think of." 
               The man was silent for a few moments, then said in a low voice, as if to himself:- 
               "'Inasmuch as ye do it unto one of the least of these my little ones, ye do it unto me.'" 
               His wife looked at him with a troubled face, as if asking more. 
               "I remember a nice warm dressing-wrapper our baby used to have. It would just about fit this little fatherless and motherless one. Can't we lend it to her?" 
               The quick tears sprang to his wife's eyes as she half put the child from her. But he was watching her very tenderly, and presently she rose without a word, and, putting the child in his arms, left the room. 
               She was gone longer than was absolutely necessary for the errand she went on, but that hardly surprised him, and when she came back she had several other pieces of clothing beside the wrapper. As she sat down and, taking the child, began to put on some of them, he watched her, and, presently bending over and kissing her hands as she tied the strings of the wrapper, he said:- 
               "'The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her.'" 
               "My precious little Daisy!" said the poor bereaved mother, as she tied on another child the garments she had so often put on her own baby. 
               "That is what my mamma used to call me," said the child, with a start,-"'My precious little Daisy!'" 
               The two grown people started too, and looked at each other in surprise. This little child that had found her way so strangely to their home had the same name that their lost darling had, as well as the same tangled yellow curls. If for a moment they wondered why their one little ewe lamb had been taken, and this homeless wanderer spared, they only felt more tenderly to her for it directly after. 
               "What is your name, little one?" Mr. Ward asked presently. 
               "Daisy Frances Dodd," she answered. 
               "What was your father's name?" 
               "Mamma called him Frank, sometimes, when we were happy." 
               "Haven't you any brothers and sisters?" 
               "No, I haven't any one, since mamma died;" and the tears sprung to the child's eyes, and her lips quivered. 
               "There, there, don't cry, that is all over now," he said to her tenderly, taking the little hands between his own, and patting them softly; "don't remember any more about it. I expect it is time you were going to bed now, that you may get rested." 
               "You aint going to put me out in the street, are you?" 
               "No, no, child, you are going to sleep in a nice, soft bed." 
               "And the policeman won't find me?" Her voice had lost its childishness as she asked these questions. 
               "No," he answered, "the police won't find you here; we will stay near; they won't want to find you any more; so try and forget all about them and about the streets, and go to sleep without being a bit afraid. Can you say your prayers?" 
               "I used to know 'Our Father,' and 'Now I lay me,' when mamma was alive; but since she died and I've slept around under steps, I've forgotten them, for it didn't seem any use." 
               "Try now and see if you can't remember them, because they are of use. It is asking our Father to take care of us, and he does it if we ask him. Now kneel down and try and say it." 
               She knelt down at Mrs. Ward's knee, and, with an occasional word or two of help, got through, saying as she rose:- 
               "You see when I first began to sleep anywhere, I used to remember and say them; then I began to forget it, and there wasn't any place to kneel." 
               "You must remember now to say them every morning and night, will you?" 
                
               "Yes, sir, I'll try." 
               Taking her in his arms that her bare feet might not touch the floor, an amount of consideration to which the little feet were by no means used, he carried her in and laid her in the bed. 
               "Are you going away?" she asked, as Mrs. Ward turned from the bed, after covering her up. 
               "I was going. Would you like me to stay? for I will if you want me to." 
               "Would you mind staying a little bit, and singing me that about the Christ-child that they sung in the church?" 
               "Yes, I'll sing it for you." 
               "And I won't wake up out in the street?" 
               "No, never any more ever, I hope." 
               "That'll be good," she said, with a satisfied sigh, "and now if you will let me hold your hand I will be so happy." 
               Mrs. Ward gave her hand, and the child, first putting it to her lips, lay still, holding it while Mrs. Ward sung her the Christmas carol. 
               The weary eyelids, heavy with sleep, drooped over her eyes, though she tried to hold them open. But long after they were closed she clung to the kindly hand she held, as if she knew it was the only thing between her and the old street life. 
               Hearing his wife sing, Mr. Ward came to the door, and, leaning on it, listened, and watched the two, until, seeing the child was fast asleep, he drew his wife's hand from out her grasp, and took her back into the sitting-room. 
               There they sat down and looked at each other. 
               "A child's voice in the house is pleasant to hear again, Marion." 
               "And her name is Daisy, Norman. Isn't it strange?" the wife answered, as she looked at the picture of their Daisy, hanging over the mantel-piece. 
               "I wonder who she is, poor little fatherless and motherless child!" 
               "I think, Norman, that her mother must have been a lady; she looks like it. She said her father's name was Frank Dodd. Did you ever hear the name?" 
               "I used to know a man with that name, an artist, a smart-enough fellow, but with no steady application. I wonder if this can be his child. He had yellow hair." 
               "Such pretty yellow curls she has, Norman, like our child's, our dear little angel; and she must be just about her age." 
               "What shall we do with her, Marion? We cannot let her go back to her old street life; it would be wicked." 
               "Can't we keep her? She seems to be a sweet, affectionate little thing, and, O Norman, my heart aches for the touch of child-fingers, and the sound of a young voice. Don't you think we might keep her?" 
               "We must do something for her; she must not be left to grow up a godless life. Before we decide about keeping her with us, Marion, we ought to see something more of her, see what kind of a child she is; for it is a serious matter this taking a new element into our home; but my heart warms strangely towards her." 
               "So does mine, Norman, and I do want to keep her with us. Come, let us go and look at her." 
               Together they went into their bedroom, where the child lay asleep. One little arm was thrown up over her head, and the hand, thin for a child, was lying on its back half open. Her cheeks were flushed, so that she did not look so sickly and delicate as she had done when awake. 
               "She is covered too warmly," Mrs. Ward said, and, stooping over her, took off some of the cover and threw it back. "Such a pretty attitude, Norman, isn't it? She must be a graceful child, though she isn't so very pretty, she is so thin! Poor little one! Think, Norman, of her having eaten nothing since yesterday morning. Let us, for the sake of our little dear one, keep this child who seems to have been providentially brought to us, and make her forget by our love and kindness the wretched life she has had." 
               "Are you not afraid, dear little wife, that wretched life has taught her some evils that we would not wish to see, or be able to subdue? Perhaps she steals." 
               "I don't believe she does, Norman," Mrs. Ward said, quickly; "there was an honest look in her eyes that I liked. If that life has taught her evils, let us try and eradicate them, for the sake of our darling." 
               "You are determined upon it, Marion?" 
               "Not determined, husband," she answered, clasping her hands around his arm; "but if you are willing, I would like it, so much. Hush, she is waking," she said, as the child turned restlessly in her sleep; "let us put down the light and go back to the other room." 
               "Come downstairs, Marion, and let us have some music on the subject, and see if that will settle the question." 
               Down they went, and while he opened the piano she dropped into an easy-chair. Then the soft, sweet notes of Mendelssohn's "Consolation" filled the room, then the Spring Song, then little snatches from organ fugues, and solemn church music. It was all soft, low music that he played, for the memory of the sleeping child upstairs, who had not been on a bed before since her mamma died, was fresh in his mind. 
               Presently he rose up from the piano, and, going into the library, mounted the steps and reached down a book from the top shelf. After looking in it a few minutes he put it up and took down another, and looked through that. 
               "What are you doing, Norman?" called his wife from the next room. 
               "Looking in the directories, to see what her father was. I would prefer to know that she was born of 'poor but respectable parents,' before I took her to live with my very respectable wife. Come and help me." 
               "No, I thank you," she answered; "I'll take her on trust, or rather on a woman's instinct of a well-born child: you may hunt up proofs." 
                
               "What would you say to this?" he called presently,-"Francis Dodd, bricklayer." 
               "Say that it is a very respectable and rising profession, but I don't believe it." 
               "Or this, Frank Dodd, restaurant keeper?" 
               "I don't believe it." 
               "Marion, come here. Here it is. Frank Dodd, artist; that must be it, for it is the only one of the name I've seen yet. Now let's follow him up, and see how his child came to starving in the streets. Though, poor fellow, the word 'artist' is quite enough to account for that. Here he lives on-street, studio-street. That is comparatively flourishing. Now let's take the year after. Ah! poor fellow, studio given lip, at the same place as house. Two years after, both moved to-street; that's a pretty violent fall for a year, a poor place for a gentleman with a wife and child to live in, an artist too. Now the next year,-name gone altogether, poor fellow, buried, one way or another; and now hand me this year's directory from down there. Not in this either. I will take these numbers and go to-morrow and inquire something about him, and find if it was merely misfortune that brought him down." 
               He stepped down off the steps, and went and stood in front of the open fireplace, leaning on the mantel-piece. His wife came and stood by him. Presently he turned around to her, and, resting a hand on each of her shoulders, looked down earnestly into her face. 
               "And so, little woman," he said, "you are willing to run this risk, taking the strange child into our midst?" 
                
               "Only too willing, Norman, if you are. He, who it seems to me sent her to us, will help us to do our best for her. Let us try it." 
               "Give her Daisy's place?" 
               "Daisy's place dear husband, in our house, for the sake of our darling who needs it no longer. Daisy's place in our hearts is her own alone and forever; this child we can love and shelter, and do no injustice to our own. Don't you think so?" 
               "Yes, dear, I do; I only wanted to see how far you were willing to go. You have my entire sympathy in all you do, and shall have my help. Go on, now, and follow out your own will." 
               "Give her Daisy's room, as she has her name?" 
               "Yes, dear, if you feel able to." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE DAISY TRANSPLANTED. 
                
                  
                     "Blessed are the merciful."
                   
                
               THE piano was closed, the lights put out, and together they went upstairs again. 
               "I must put sheets on the bed in Daisy's room," Mrs. Ward said; "the child cannot sleep in our bed, and the sheets should be aired, or she'll catch cold. Here, Norman, come and make yourself useful,-air these sheets for me." 
               She went to the linen closet and took them out, and together they made a great bustle about it, each trying to keep the other from feeling the unavoidable pain, at putting the strange Daisy into the place of their transplanted flower. 
               When they were properly aired, Mrs. Ward made the little bed up fresh and white, and could not help dropping a few tears upon the pillow where her darling's head had nestled. But her husband was near, so she made them few, lest he should be troubled, and, turning to him, said, as she had made the bed, he might bring the child in. 
               "Now don't wake her," she said, as he lifted her and put a shawl around her, "or the poor little totty mite will think the policeman has her. Only think of such a little creature, having cause for such a fear! Thank God, we are able to save her from it. There, now, lay her down carefully. I don't reckon she has been used to such careful handling 'since mamma died.' You must find out who that mamma she seems to cherish so much was." 
               The transfer safely made, they sought their own bed, after praying for a blessing on the decision they had made, and the little cause of it. 
               Several times in the night Mr. Ward woke and missed his wife from his side, and found she had gone into the next room to look at the sleeping child, and once when she came back her sobs, partly suppressed for fear of disturbing him, were so heart-broken, that he had to tell her again, as he had done often before, that it was well with their child; that the loving Father knew what was best, and wanted her under his own immediate care, and they should rejoice that she was spared the sorrow and pain of ears. 
               When morning came Mrs. Ward was up bright and early, and met the opening eyes of the child with a pleasant smile, and morning words of welcome. 
               "Don't you want to take another nice bath, Daisy?" she asked. 
               "Yes'm, I've been so dirty. Mamma didn't love dirt, at all; she used to say you couldn't be happy unless you were clean, and I haven't been happy since I've been dirty. Will I be happy when I am clean again?" 
                
               "Yes, dear, I hope you will; come and let's try it." 
               Daisy came out of the bath in excellent spirits; each plunge seemed to remove some of the remnants of her street life and memories. 
               Standing in front of the fire while Mrs. Ward was fastening her clothes, she noticed the pretty, soft red rug, and said:- 
               "So soft and pretty, like the carpet I stepped on out of the snow; it was so warm for my feet; but it wasn't as pretty as this, and the man made me get off, and move on." 
               Then she told how she had gone up the steps and been driven away. There was no complaint in her way of telling it, merely the simple facts of the case seemed to lodge in her mind; and when she told of what the man said to her, she added:- 
               "And you know I did not want to spy around; I only wanted to rest, and it was so pretty and warm looking up there, and the snow cut my feet so, that it was good to get there on something soft." 
               "No, dear, I know you didn't," Mrs. Ward said, most sympathetically. 
               "But perhaps," added the child, "he didn't know that, for you know"-and she sunk her voice quite low-"there are little girls in the street who do steal and spy out, and it is dreadful. They can't always tell us apart;" and she heaved a great sigh. 
               Mrs. Ward gave a triumphant look at her husband, which he answered with a smile and nod. 
                
               "The prospect brightens considerably, Marion, I begin to feel very hopeful." 
               The breakfast-bell rung, and the three started down. Mr. Ward thought of proposing to Daisy to ride down on his back, but the solemnity of the child kept him from attempting such a rash proceeding. When he confided his intention, and what deterred him from carrying it out, to his wife, she said:- 
               "Never mind; she is solemn, but think what she has gone through with lately, and how we are strangers to her. Give her time, and she will blossom into a merry child yet. Let her forget the past, and grow young again. She has a very sweet laugh." 
               Breakfast was over, and they noticed she ate very little for a child who had been well-nigh starved. They had both watched her anxiously, to see how she behaved at table, and were pleased to see her manners quiet and pleasant, almost painfully quiet for a child so young, though she appeared very much delighted when a large Maltese cat came and took the seat opposite her, and lapped milk out of a saucer Mrs. Ward placed for her on the table. 
               "There! she hasn't spilt a drop!" she said, after watching the operation eagerly, and she gave a short little laugh; then, rather startled at the sound of her voice, grew sober again. 
               Soon after breakfast, Mr. Ward, taking down the various directions of the supposed father of the child, started out to see what information he could obtain of the family circumstances, before and after his death. 
                
               "What are you going to do with me now?" asked the child as soon as he was gone, nestling up to Mrs. Ward's side, as though she felt more at home with her alone. 
               "I don't know. What do you want me to do with you?" 
               "I don't know; what do people do with little girls when they belong to them?" 
               "They love them," said Mrs. Ward, tearfully, thinking of her little girl taken beyond need of her love. 
               "And what else?" the child asked. "I don't remember what my mamma used to do with me, besides love me, when I was a little child. I knew that." 
               Mrs. Ward looked at the little tot standing by her side, looking up into her face with grave gray eyes, and talking about when she was a little child, and hardly knew whether to laugh or cry. She concluded to do a little of both, and asked:- 
               "When were you a little child?" 
               "Oh, before mamma died, and I had to take care of myself." 
               "What are you now, then?" 
               "I-don't-know," said the child, with a perplexed look; "I aint a woman like you, and I aint a child like I was when mamma loved me. You tell me." 
               "You are a little child yet, Daisy; see, you are only so high. And now don't let us trouble ourselves any more about that. Let us enjoy ourselves. What shall we play?" 
                
               "I don't know any plays now, that we could play; what shall we?" 
               Mrs. Ward proposed tit-tat-too, and, sitting down on the floor by Daisy, explained it to her, and played with her till, both getting tired, it was exchanged for the mysteries of cat's-cradle. With the deepest attention Daisy devoted herself to it, becoming more and more delighted each time the string twisted itself into a hopeless "crowsfoot" and refused to be taken off again. 
               After a time the great Maltese walked in, followed by two kittens, like a brigadier-general at the head of his army, and Daisy forsook the cradle for the cats, and matched them and played with them for some time, while Mrs. Ward went to attend to some household duties which had been put off for the sake of amusing the child. 
               In the course of the day Mr. Ward came back, bringing even more news than they had hoped for. At the first place he had gone to, he asked if a Mr. Frank Dodd, an artist, had ever lived there. 
               The lady said, "Oh, yes, I remember him,-a fair-haired, pleasant-spoken young gentleman. He lived with me for some time, and one day he went and brought home a little wife, a wee little creature, half as big as he was, and they wouldn't tell who she was, or where she came from, and I thought it very queer until their baby was born,-a little yellow-haired thing just like him. Then it came out that her family had refused to let her marry him, for he was only an artist, and when she persisted sisted and did it, they had let her go, and gave her no word of love; or anything more substantial either. 
               "He just did make both ends meet any way, with teaching, and illustrating, and doing what he could, and when the baby came, and the medicines and all, it came hard for him; and then he had to give up his studio and worked at home here. The little one crawled around and kept up their spirits; the wee wife sat for him and stood for him till her strength most gave out; but she kept up the smile for him, though I used to see the tears in her eyes when he wasn't by, and she would murmur over her child:- 
               "'Ah, baby, if we only had our rights he should not work so hard, should he?' 
               "Then she began to ask me if I could get her some sewing to do; and I managed to get her some little, and when he was away at his lessons, she'd stitch, stitch, till her cheeks got red and her eyes pale; but before him she always kept up the same smile. 
               "And at last he lost some of his pupils; then he said they must go to a cheaper place to board. I asked them as little as I could, but I had to live; and I was very sorry to have them go, but I could not keep them for the little he said he was able to give, for I could only make both ends meet; so I told them, I'm sure with tears in my eyes, that I was sorry to part with them, but if they must go, they must, and I would help them all I could, and I told her in private that I'd get her all the sewing I could. And so they went." 
                
               "Did she say our Daisy was their child?" asked Mrs. Ward, eagerly. "Did you ask?" 
               "Not in quite that way, little wife. I asked what was their child named, and she told me the child was called after both of them, and he always spoke of the child as the Daisy-bud, to distinguish her from the mother. Then she told me that before they went away he had talked a great deal of how distressed he was to take away his wife and child from such comfortable quarters, and that at last he painted a picture of the two Daisys,- 
                     "'The wee modest crimson-tipped flowers,'
                   he called them. They were peacefully growing in a cosey sunny little garden; the large Daisy, with the small one by her side rising, in fantastic likeness to the flower, out from among green leaves, with the face of child and mother woven into the flowers,-wonderful likenesses, she said. And there he stood a rough, coarse gardener, with a great spade in his hand, with which he was about to uproot the flowers, which meanwhile looked up to him with the most trusting, satisfied air. 
               "The head was like him," she said, "with just such a look on his face as she had seen there of late when she would catch him unawares watching the two Daisys, and almost cry herself to see him. She begged the picture of him, for she said the faces were all so like, and she showed it to me." 
               "And you-"interrupted his wife. 
               "Yes, I begged it from her; said it would be precious to his child in years to come, and she gave it to me. We will look at it after a while; first let us finish this sad story. I went to the next direction, and it was the same story, only sadder; poorer, fewer pupils, apparently less work, and sickness followed by his death. Then the widow and child moved again, unable to stay where they were, and obliged to sell their few possessions to pay the rent and the doctor's bills. I followed to the direction given, and found it a place of the poorest description. 
               "There I learned that the poor, faded Daisy had struggled along with a little sewing from time to time, till she had died, last Christmas, dear, when our Daisy died, and this little Daisy-bud has been a year in finding her way to our home. The people said they kept the child as long as they could, but she wasn't contented, did not like their children, and at last wandered away. They made one or two inquiries for her and then ceased, thinking they had all the children they could take care of." 
               "Norman," his wife said earnestly, "aren't you glad we decided to adopt her before we heard this pitiful story? For then we could not have helped doing it." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               TAKING ROOT. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Have I not been nigh a mother 
                        To thy sweetness-tell me, dear? 
                        Have we not loved one another 
                        Tenderly from year to year?" 
                     
                   
                
               UNDER the kindly influence of her two new friends, Daisy soon began to brighten and grow more childlike, though she was still a great contrast to the bright child whose empty place she had taken. 
               She moved about the house usually as quiet as a shadow; would sit for ever so long on the floor, watching the kittens play, and seemingly perfectly happy. It was some time before Mrs. Ward could persuade her to ask for something to eat when she wanted it. When asked if she was hungry, she would say yes, and reply to the question why she did not ask for something to eat, that she was used to being hungry. 
               When Mr. And Mrs. Ward told her that she was going to be their little girl, and always belong to them, she began of her own accord to call them father and mother. 
               "For my own papa and mamma are dead, you know," she said, "and so you will be my father and mother." 
               Sometimes the Wards, thinking the child never would be like other children, spoke of the danger of her former life casting a shadow over her, and wondered if she would ever outgrow it. She was not a gloomy child, or even sad, just quiet and shy. She would appear very merry in her own way; but, as Mr. Ward said, that was such a solemn way, that it did not carry that force of merriment with it that it might have done. 
               Friends coming to the house, and seeing the new addition to the family, called them quixotic, and their charge queer. They had decided that it was better for the child's future comfort that nothing should be known of her history, or how she was found, until she became old enough to decide about it for herself; so all that curious friends learned was, that she was the child of an old acquaintance of Mr. Ward's, who had lately died, and they had taken her to bring up as their own. Norman and Marion Ward were sensible people, and they kept their own counsel, and in their hearts valued their adopted child more, that they had found her where they had lost their own darling. 
               What gave Mrs. Ward the greatest uneasiness about her was, that she would sit by the hour with her slate on her knee, drawing, and want nothing else to keep her happy. Her husband would not give her any sympathy in her grief about it, for he said that the drawings Daisy made were so utterly free from any signs of genius, that he could not feel the least uneasy for fear she would grow up to be an artist; all children drew on their slates, and it was natural, with her father's talent, that she should be fond of it. 
                
               But in spite of her husband's scepticism on the subject, she felt very much troubled about it. She had rather a strong objection to an artist's life any way, as involving a species of Bohemianism that was destructive to manners and morals. For a woman, she thought it particularly dreadful,-a thorny way, full of untold troubles and dangers; and, with the failure of the child's father before her, she could not but dread it for the child. 
               But Daisy went on in calm unconsciousness; she drew everything in the heavens above, in the earth beneath, and in the waters under the earth, and some things that could not strictly have belonged to either. She showed a sublime disregard of relative proportions, and made the stars in the heavens as large as she did the strange and curious animals grazing upon the earth. 
               It seemed to bring her great pleasure, notwithstanding the impossible things she made. Often she would sit down by Mrs. Ward's side with her slate, and tell her, by the hour, long stories illustrated with her drawings, that were quite as amusing to one as to the other. Quaint, old-fashioned ideas, that her adopted mother wondered where she had picked up, and, asking the child, received for an answer that "They came." 
               She grew very fond of both her parents, though she showed her affection in a very different manner: with her mother she was much merrier, laughing arid talking, while with her father she was, from the first, a quiet, helpful little damsel, and would watch him, to fulfil a wish almost before he asked it, waiting on him in the most loving manner. 
               When, in the afternoon, the day's labors being over, he would go around to the church and sit at the organ, filling the church and his heart with sweet sounds, she would follow him, and, sitting down in some corner near by, seem to lose herself entirely in the music, so that he would often have to call her twice before she would come to him to go home. 
               He told his wife, auguring from that, that he was going to make a musician of her, without doubt, to which Marion would answer:- 
               "Anything at all, Norman, so that she isn't an artist. I should like her to serve our dear music." 
               So, before she had been many months in the house, before she had even learned to read, she was placed at the piano and her father taught her to play. 
               She caught from him quickly what he taught, and seemed to have a decided aptitude for it; but she always left the piano with perfect willingness, if not pleasure, and went back to her slate. 
               And so years passed on; the child grew rapidly within and without. Docile and affectionate, she won the deep love of both her adopted parents, and never gave them cause to regret the night when she found her way so strangely to their home and hearts. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               DAISY FINDS HER WORK. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Each of God's soldiers bears 
                        A sword divine: 
                        Stretch out thy trembling hands 
                        To-day for thine!" 
                     
                   
                
               THERE was great rejoicing in the house of Ward, for a little soul had come there; a new life was just beginning; and the mother and father spoke of "my son" as if he were twenty-one years, instead of days, old. Of course he was the finest baby the world had ever seen, and even at that tender age proved himself a prodigy. He throve wonderfully in the soft spring days, but his mamma did not, and at last the doctor said that she must go to the country; the fresh air and quiet life there were the only things that would bring back the color to her cheeks and the life to her step. 
               His mandate must be obeyed, and the only point to be discussed was, how best to do it. Mr. Ward could not leave his business long enough even to take her to her destination. 
               Both of them wanted their oldest child, their useful Daisy, and there was a cheerful rivalry as to which should give her up to the other. 
               It was at last decided that as Mrs. Ward was going to her own home and family, Daisy should stay and take care of her father; for she was quite old enough to take charge of the house, and indeed had done it all the time her mother was sick. 
               There were very sober faces the night before Mrs. Ward left, for the three had never been separated before since they had first met, and Daisy, "troubled by many things," was wondering how she would get along without her mother to consult with and advise her; and Mrs. Ward did not like to leave the girl to the lonely house all day, while her father was away. But it seemed the best thing that could be done; so she gave her full directions how to manage, and then trusted that all would go well. 
               The early morning broke, and Mr. Ward and Daisy went to the cars to see the travellers safely off. When the last good-by had been said, and the car had rushed out of the depot, they came home to the lonely house, and sat down and looked mournfully at each other. 
               "What are you going to do with yourself all day, Daisy?" asked her father, as he saw her casting disconsolate glances around. 
               "Study my lessons, sir, and practise; darn the stockings, and anything that turns up." 
               "If you become too lonely, little woman, you can come down for me, and we'll go somewhere on a jolly spree. We'll play we were boys again, and have a good time. Let us have a duet now, to keep up our spirits." 
               They sat down to the piano, and played until it was time for Mr. Ward to go down town. His last words as he left the house were, "Now be a good girl, and do not get blue;" and, kissing his hand to her, he walked down the street, while she stood at the door and watched him until he was out of sight. 
               Then she went into the house, shut the door after her, and occupied that unenviable position of being monarch of all she surveyed, with no one to dispute her rights, by way of furnishing excitement. 
               First, there were all her lessons to learn, to be said to her father when he came home in the evening; for, wishing to keep their Daisy pure and white, they had avoided all schools, and undertaken her education themselves. Gathering her books together, she came down to the library and commenced to study. She never knew before what a memory she had; in about half the usual time she had to give to them, she knew all her lessons, and put away her books. Then the stocking-basket was taken; she did not love that work, and often grumbled very much at having to do it, but to-day it was for her absent mother, so the needle fairly flew. Surely stockings never were darned so quickly, and the basket also was emptied in half the usual time. 
               Everything seemed to be conspiring to get done rapidly so that she would have plenty of unoccupied time on her hands. She sat down to the piano again, to practise a piece of music her father wanted her to learn particularly well, but the house only grew lonelier and I lonelier; she longed for the sound of a human voice so much that she made several excuses to go down into the kitchen and speak to the servants. The music, Chopin's waltz in A minor, was full of a longing for something, she knew not what. The strain-  
                      
                   sung itself over and over to her, until she had to get up and shut the piano, and roam uneasily over the house. 
               She never, that she remembered, had been alone so long before; for the loved and loving life she had led for the last few years had effaced from her memory her wandering life, her long vigil in the church, and the faint, out of which she woke to a happy home. She had always had the companionship of her mother or father, and now she found herself suddenly thrown upon her own resources. She tried to draw, but drawing seemed so unnatural and flat; and in the place of the lines she meant to draw, the waltz in A minor wrote itself, besides getting tangled up in all her thoughts. She tried to read, and it was very much the same way. At last she acknowledged to herself that she was very much of a baby, and wanted her mother. 
               Then, remembering that her father had told her that if it became too unbearable she must come down to him, she went up to her room, put on her hat and shawl, and, telling the servants she was going out, she started down the street. 
               Feeling a little ashamed of acknowledging how poorly she had been able to stand the loneliness, by going for him so early, she determined to amuse herself a little while longer, and so went into various book-stores, and picture-stores. But pictures, like her drawings, seemed stale, flat, and unprofitable, and the A minor sung itself more persistently than ever. 
               What did it want? she asked herself, half in impatience at the obstinate music that would haunt her. She was so used to hearing her father and mother speak of music as a sentient being, that she unconsciously had fallen into the same way. 
               What did it want? and would it never let her alone? And so, thinking over it, she walked up one street and down another, hardly caring where she went, so that she passed the time till she could go for her father, and escape from the music. 
               Suddenly, however, she and the music both halted together; and she was gazing with earnest eyes at some object right before her. It was a simple thing, and probably hundreds of people had passed it that day without even giving it a glance. Merely a small bust of a baby, indulging in an unsuppressed yawn. 
                
               It was not a well-mannered baby, belonging to the "upper ten," or it would not have yawned in public in such an undisguised manner. But, like the cherubs, it had not the wherewithal to hide its yawn, not even a wing to cover it; so, behaving like anybody's baby that had had no bringing up, it rudely, or innocently, gaped in the face of the whole passing populace. 
               But once seen, however you might hate the sin, you loved the sinner, and gaped back in answer to the baby face. 
               At least Daisy did, and laughed to find herself standing gazing at it, and yawning in quite as helpless a manner. They both had been forsaken by their mammas, and were very much bored. So she watched the pretty young face, with its innocent eyes and round cheeks, and wished it would shut its mouth for a minute, just so that she could see what it looked like. 
               But it didn't; and at last, tired of waiting for it to do what it would not do, the thought struck her that she would go home and make one for herself with its mouth shut. 
               She had no very definite idea how she would make it, or what of; and, as she walked home, she tried to think of something she could use. As she was thinking of how mud and sand would not stick together,-as she knew by her youthful experience in making mud pies,-and how dough would harden and crack, her eyes suddenly rested on a glazier putting in a pane of glass. The putty he was using seemed to be so soft and easy to move, that with an instinctive knowledge of what was necessary in her material it struck her that would be the very thing. 
               Delighted with the happy thought, and bent upon carrying out her intention, she walked up to the man and said:- 
               "Will you please tell me where I can get some putty?" 
               The man looked up, and, struck by the diminutive size of the person addressing him, said:- 
               "I will give you some of mine." 
               "Oh, no, thank you," Daisy answered, horrified at having seemed to ask for his. "If you'll tell me where, I can buy some. I want a good deal more than you have there." 
               Very much amused, the man gave her the direction of the nearest glazier's, and, after thanking him, feeling that she was on the road to success, she started off more earnestly still, and, reaching the store, obtained what she asked for,-"ever so much putty." 
               The house no longer seemed lonely to her when she reached it again; so intent was she on the one idea, that she seemed to forget that there was anything else in the world except that baby's face with its mouth shut. 
               Running upstairs to her room, she threw her hat and sack on the bed, and sat down to contemplate her precious treasure. 
               The paper in which it was wrapped was all greasy, and she took it off and threw it away, without stopping to notice that her sack, against which she had held the bundle with a grasp as tight as if it would have flown away, had shared the same fate. 
               There was the putty, and now what was to be done to it? How was that baby to be made?-questions that she asked herself in hopeless perplexity for some time, as she stood and watched it. But time was passing, and something must be done. She did not love the smell of putty; in fact, she thought it very bad, and greasy and unpleasant to the fingers as she touched it; but all of that was of very little consequence when she was in such a hurry to see the baby with his mouth shut. 
               With the feeling that to use anything but her hands to work with would be acknowledging herself conquered by an unpleasant thing, she bravely determined to do the worst at once, and so went to work with both hands, in a manner that was earnest enough to ensure success. It did, to the extent of getting her hands stuck up with the putty, and a round ball made about the size she wanted the baby's head to be. Then she could not use her hands any more, they were so stuck up. She looked around for some weapon to clean them with; for trying to clean one with the other resulted in getting each more hopelessly useless. 
               Happily she saw her knife lying open oh the table; she seized it, and began to scrape her hands clean. In doing that she got an idea for work, and when she could again move them with any freedom, she took the knife and used it in the same way on the baby's head. The work advanced more rapidly then, though not much more scientifically. 
                
               Before her mother went away she had tried drawing the baby in every imaginable position, particularly his head, which was about the only part of him ever clearly defined in the mass of drapery, so that she was rather familiar with the shape of a baby's head and face; enough so to be able to get some faint resemblance to what she was seeking, when the dinner-bell rang, and found her with unkempt hair, unchanged dress, and very dirty hands. 
               The latter she washed, and the former she smoothed over, but she had not finished even that poor apology for dressing for dinner, when the bell rang again, and she had to run down as she was. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE FIEST ATTEMPT. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "One by one thy duties wait thee; 
                           Let thy whole strength go to each." 
                        
                      
                     A. A. P. 
                   
                
               "WHAT is the matter, Daisy, that you are so late?" asked her father, as she came running into the room, after the second ringing of the bell. 
               "I was so busy that I did not think it was near dinner-time," she answered him, looking and feeling rather ashamed. 
               "And where is my neat little girl who usually appears here at this time? Who is this coming to dinner in the same dress she wore to breakfast? I fear mamma would not approve of that;" and he shook his head rather gravely at her. 
               "I was so busy, father," was all she could say. 
               "What kept you so busy that you forgot the rule to be dressed and ready for dinner in time?" 
               "I was trying to make something, and I got so interested I forgot all about it, sir. I am sorry," 
               "Well, then, we will not say any more about it. Only try and remember, daughter, that doing one thing, whether it is a duty or a pleasure, is wrong when it interferes terferes with something else that ought to be done at that time." 
               "Yes, sir," Daisy said, and resolved that she would try and not be late for meals any more, when she saw how it annoyed her father. She tried to make up for it by being more than usually attentive and pleasant, saying her lessons well, and devoting herself so entirely to her father's company, that the evening passed off very agreeably to both. 
               The next morning, as soon as he left the house, before she looked at her lessons, she rushed up to her room and sat down to work "a few minutes" on her beloved baby. 
               The few minutes lasted so long that she was unconscious of how time passed, until a bell again rang. Horrified for fear it was the dinner-bell, and remembering in a flash that she had not studied one of her lessons or practised a note, she felt quite relieved, on looking up from her work, to find from the position of the sunbeams on the floor, that it must be the lunch! and not the dinner-bell. 
               Feeling very much relieved, she went downstairs, determined not to come up and put herself in the way of temptation again until she had learned her lessons and practised. 
               But both were very difficult to attend to, for her heart was in her work upstairs, and she was more eager to get-to it than anything else. It would never do, however, to have her lessons badly prepared for her father. If she did that she thought her mother would have a right to object to her being an artist. 
                
               When at last the lessons were all committed, she sat down to practise; but the more she tried to play, the more she thought of her work, till at last she could stand it no longer; and, rushing from the piano, she went upstairs, two steps at a time, till she reached her own room. Remembering her experience of the evening before, she took the precaution to dress before she went to work, so that she would lose no time, and yet be ready for dinner. 
               The work that gave her so much delight would have presented a curious appearance to any one else. A doctor might have taken it for a very severe and aggravated case of dropsy of the head, and advised instantaneous tapping as the only means of saving life. A glazier would have taken it for a fine piece of putty badly mauled: her father, as an additional proof that Daisy would never be an artist; while her mother would probably have taken it and thrown it away, as a species of dangerous handling of forbidden fruits. 
               But there was no one to watch over the girl, and she was rapidly drifting into that fascinating realm, that, once entered, is never willingly left by one who truly loves it. The rudely formed bust was as beautiful to her eyes as was the famous Moses to Michael Angelo, when he commanded it, "Now speak!" 
               She knew she had not made it correctly; that there were many and serious faults in it, even those that she could see and meant to alter; but it was to her the opening of the door into the beautiful world of sculpture, and as she stood on the threshold it seemed to her what she had been wanting unconsciously all her life. 
                
               The putty was sticky, and pulled itself out of shape; and she had only her knife and fingers to work with, and did not know very clearly what she wanted to make. But in spite of all this there came from under her fingers, form, rough though it might be, and it was a delight such as she had never known before. 
               Several days passed, and she worked upon the head at all available times. Once or twice her father, noticing the smell of putty about her, asked her why it was; and she told him she was making something with it, and could not get it entirely off her hands. 
               At last, half suspecting what she was about, he ceased to question her, waiting till she should tell him of her own free accord. 
               But she found that her putty was getting so hard that she could not work on it with any comfort; and then the thought struck her that there must be some other way of working, some other material to use, and she determined to try and find it out. 
               Accordingly she started out early one morning in pursuit of information. There was not the same listless, aimless wandering up and down that had characterized her walk the last time she had been out alone. There was a purpose in it now, and it. showed in her whole manner,-in the way she carried her head, in the bright look in her eyes. She was looking for something she meant to find; and, as fortune favors the brave, she was soon successful. 
               Her eyes rested on some statues outside of a door, and she knew this was the place she was looking for. 
                
               She had a consciousness of often having passed this spot before, but she had never noticed it particularly. She had generalized all these statues, and the few she had seen in other places, under the general head of "busts," and regarded them something as fossil remains, dull and cold. 
               Suddenly they had sprung into life for her; and not knowing why or how the change had come about, or troubling herself about it at all, she just gave herself up to the enjoyment it brought, hardly knowing, in the newness of it, how much it was. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE CASTER'S STUDIO. 
                
                  
                      
                        "By your beauty which confesses 
                        Some chief Beauty conquering you,- 
                        By our grand heroic guesses, 
                        Through your falsehood, at the True,-" 
                     
                   
                
               WITH a beating heart Daisy gathered her skirts around her and mounted the steps, which were quite and by no means the cleanest she had ever seen. Reaching the top, she did not stop to knock at the door, for she feared, if there was any hesitation in opening it that her courage would fail her, and she would leave if took the liberty of deciding the matter by opening it herself, going in, and shutting it after her. 
               The boldness of the step, and the feeling that she had really done it now, and there was no escape, so added to her trepidation, that for a few minutes she was conscious only of being decidedly frightened. Then began to steal over her a consciousness of being surrounded by great white figures, that half startled her, and yet made her feel quiet and happy. There was as yet no individuality in them to her; merely as a wonderful, incomprehensible whole they struck her, and she gazed around in loving awe. 
                
               Then came a clearer idea of each. Close by her was a great stately figure of a woman, that towered up high into the air. She had no arms, Daisy saw, as her wondering gaze travelled up towards the head; but the woman did not seem to mind it, and Daisy certainly did not when her eyes rested on the face. That lovely, calm face, with the far-seeing eyes, seemed the most beautiful thing she had ever seen; and she gazed for a long time before she could look away. 
               Next to her stood another woman, smaller than the first, with a fish standing on its head by her side; she looked very small and insignificant by the grand creature she had first seen, and, only giving her one look, Daisy passed on to the next. She gave a little start of surprise as she looked at it, almost expecting to see him move, so light was the figure of the boyish man resting only on one foot, on the mouth of a head with the cheeks puffed out, lying on the ground. 
               "Where will he step next?" she thought, unconscious of the many years he had stood just there, and feeling that motion was a necessity for him. But he did not move, and the next that met her eye was a large man, standing up and holding in his arms a fat, chubby baby. One of the baby's hands was in the man's mouth, and she wondered what that might mean. 
               But so many new things met her eyes, as she looked around, that she could not wonder long at any one, for a dozen others rose before her. What a wonderful place it was! She forgot the bright sunshine outside, out of which she had just stepped, for in here the atmosphere was a soft gray, like a cloudy day, and the figures looked a great deal more lovely in it than the baby's head had done in the glaring sunshine. 
               Farther back in the room, more in the shadow, she saw a group that made her shudder,-a man larger than any one she had ever seen (as indeed most of these figures were), and two boys struggling in the folds of two immense serpents. The horror of it held her fascinated for a few moments, till at last, with an effort, she took her eyes away, and they rested on a beautiful little fairy, with outstretched arms, springing toward her out of a shell. Involuntarily she stretched her arms out to it, and gave a delighted little laugh. 
               It was echoed close by, though she did not hear it; she was too absorbed to notice that for some minutes past a man had been leaning with crossed arms, in a doorway not far from her, though in a darker part of the room, watching, with a half-earnest, half-amused look, her unconscious delight in her surroundings. For her, in the first flush of her meeting these great works of the old masters, the world held nothing else; men and women of flesh and blood, and living emotions, faded away before these cold, still men and women, whose wonderful, intense life had brought them through long ages after their makers had seen corruption, as powerful and satisfying as when they first stood in their pure whiteness, a new creation,-more powerful, for their age brought with it suggestions of times and manners long since passed from the earth. 
               All this Daisy felt dimly, half unconsciously, as she stood among them for the first time, and drank in their beauty. After the surprise of the first few moments she had felt that these must be the antiques of which she had read; and she wondered how she had lived so long and just waked up to them. 
               She was in a charmed world, and the moments were precious, for they were as fleeting as they were rare, and in the whole of her after life she would feel the influence of this first meeting with true art; and the silent greetings that passed between them cemented bonds that only death could sever. 
               There is a truth and simplicity about sculpture that causes it to strike deep into the heart, and weave powerful chains around the life; and to its lovers it seems the highest, because the truest, of all arts. 
               Daisy's eyes, in gravely wandering around, at last encountered those of the man who was watching her. For a few seconds she accepted him as she did the other figures; then there dawned in her eyes an acknowledgment of his inferior possession of humanity, that had such a savor of disappointment and descent from the clouds that the man laughed. 
               That broke the spell, not uncanny, but a spell nevertheless, that had held her; and, with a pleasant little smile and a quiet air, she went up to him and said:- 
               "I came in here to ask something about modelling, and I had never seen all these before, so I forgot what I came for." 
               She had lost all fear by this time; for she thought that a man who had all these beautiful things around him must be kind and good; and the face that looked down upon her was not one to make her change her opinion. A pleasant great German face, with grizzly gray beard and hair, and cheery blue eyes looking out from under shaggy eyebrows, harmonized with his gray blouse and the gray atmosphere. 
               "Yes, little maid," he said. "It was plain to see that you forgot. And what is it you want to ask about modelling?" 
               "How to do it," Daisy answered. 
               Again the same amused smile lit up his shaggy face, as he said:- 
               "Rather a broad field of inquiry, that. But then you've taken a good long lesson already, this morning." 
               "How?" Daisy asked. 
               "By seeing all of these,"-and he stretched his hand towards the antiques; "but if you want to know more, come into my own room and I'll show you. We'll sit down, for you've been standing long enough for a little maiden." 
               She followed him down a passage that was rather dark, but opened into a room bright and cheery enough to make up for the outside gloominess. In the window, which was partly open, stood a pot of sweet-scented violets that perfumed the whole room. Above them hung a canary bird, that was twittering away to his heart's content, and on the floor lay a dog. 
               That was all that Daisy noticed as she entered the room, except that even above the odor of the violets was a cool, damp smell, very pleasant to her. 
                
               "Now sit down, and let us talk about it," the man said. And, picking up a rag, he dusted off a chair, making it rather dirtier than it was before, and handed it to her. 
               The true sculptor's soul was dawning in her, for she sat down in the chair covered with clay and plaster with as much equanimity as if it had been one of the daintiest ones in her mother's parlor. 
               "Now tell me how much you know about sculpture," the man said to her. 
               "I don't know much," she answered. "I have tried in the last few days to make a baby's head; but I had nothing but putty, arid that doesn't seem to work well." 
               "No," he said; "that isn't nice,-it is sticky, and pully, and doesn't stay where you put it. We use clay." 
               "Where do you get it?"; she asked, eagerly. 
               "You can get it at any pottery where they make earthen ware. The kind you dig up out of the earth is dirty and gritty, full of sand and pebbles, and it does not work nicely, but they take it, sift and grind it,-that takes out the stones and dirt,-then they mix it up, sometimes with water and sometimes with glycerine, according to the quality of the china or earthen ware they want to mate. It is better for us when it is mixed with glycerine, for then it keeps soft and even much longer." 
               "How do you keep it soft? My putty got so hard I could not use it." 
               "We keep the clay soft by keeping it wet. We cover our work with wet rags, and then if that don't keep it wet enough we use sponges, and sometimes have oil-cloth covers for our work when we are going to keep it on hand a long time and don't want it to crack." 
               "Does it crack, too?" 
               "Oh, yes, it will crack all to pieces if you let it get too dry; the water keeps it together, and in place, but when that dries, it goes all sorts of ways." 
               "How do you fix it to work in?" 
               "I always have my stand, that I am going to work on, firm, so that it won't fall over, or break. That is the first thing to be thought of. Then you have your clay soft enough for you to be able to press it any way you choose. It mustn't be so wet that the water splashes from it; that doesn't pack so well." 
               "Pack?" Daisy said, inquiringly. 
               "Yes, you have got to pack it in firmly and even. If there are holes inside of it, that makes it crack on the outside." 
               "Why?" 
               "Because, I suppose, the inside being holes instead of solid, even clay, the air gets in, and dries it faster than the rest, and then it begins to crack because one part is dryer than the other; for you keep the outside wet while the inside is steadily drying. When you break a clay statue to pieces, you find the inside so hard that you can hardly dig it out, while the outside is soft and pliable. It is very important to keep it as even as possible; therefore some sculptors use light frames of Wood, that fit over their work, and are covered with oilcloth; or, as that is very expensive, enamel cloth, which you get at carriage-makers. They put that over their work, and suspend wet sponges inside, or put in cups of water. Then they do not have to cover the statue with rags, which is very bad for it, destroying in a great measure any careful work, by the pressure of the rag or the dripping of the water. The atmosphere being confined and the place as air-tight as possible, the clay absorbs all moisture it needs from the sponges and cups, and keeps much more even and nice than any other way. But all this you will learn from experience." 
               Daisy gave a sigh, for that experience seemed a very long journey before her; but she felt eager to start on it, so asked:- 
               "What tools do you use? I had nothing but my fingers and a penknife, which didn't work well." 
               "Oh, we have various tools, though none take the place of the fingers. They are a sculptor's great blessing,-ten obedient servants that follow his will. There are certain parts of our work for which nothing answers like the fingers; they are so soft, so pliable, and there is a soul, a knowledge of what is wanted, in them, that the steel tools lack entirely. But when other tools are necessary, we use these kinds,"-and he took up four or five lying on his stand;" see this one, broad and strong, with large teeth in it; this we use for the coarse, rough work, the first cutting out and massing of our clay. Then this one comes into use; see, the teeth are smaller, finer, the whole tool less heavy." 
               "Why is it curved so much?" Daisy asked. 
               "That makes it easier to use for some parts; it takes firmer hold on the clay. The other end, see, is straighter, only curved at the end a little bit; then here is one straight. This one with a broad flat piece, without any teeth, we call a spatula, and use it for putting on more clay in places. See how limber it is, and bends so easily; that is very useful. Then here are these for still nicer work, with very fine teeth; they only take off a little clay at a time; and these without any teeth at all are for the finest work of all; but I don't use these much." 
               "Why'not?" asked Daisy, anxious to know everything. "They look so nice." 
               "Because I find these are more apt to make uneven places in the clay. Those with teeth seem to grasp hold in a firmer manner. The teeth make little tracks that they go in, and they leave behind them a surface smoother in the mass, though traced over with the mark of the teeth; that, however, is easy to efface with your finger and a little water." 
               "Have you any others?" 
               "Sometimes we use little tools of box-wood, of various shapes and sizes, but for my part, I prefer the steel tools, particularly when you are making flesh; the box-wood tools do very well for hair, and folds of drapery, though even there the teeth of the steel tool are more reliable." 
               "How do you pack your clay so that it will not have holes in it? By hammering it?" 
               "Yes, that is the best way. I sometimes use my hands. For anything small, that does, but for a large amount of clay it is better to have a wooden mallet, rather broad; and always try to pound into the centre. Then you get it close; and pound evenly all around, so that it will not be close in one place, and loose in another." 
               "How do you do when you want to make something large,-a statue like that?" and she pointed to one in the corner of the room. "How do you keep the clay from falling to pieces?" 
               "First, we make a support. Some sculptors have a wire frame made to pile their clay upon; but that is expensive, and not very much better. This way is as good, and easier: have a firm block, to be hidden under the base of your statue; from that have a pole rising to the height and at the inclination that you want your figure to be. If it is a draped figure, the supports can be, and indeed, will need to be, heavier. If it is a nude figure, they must be slighter, as the support usually goes up the straightest leg. A round pole is the best, with auger-holes bored in it. If the figure is draped, you can put through these holes in the main support, lesser rods, that help to support the weight of the clay." 
               "Won't the clay slip between them?" Daisy asked. 
               "You must not put them so that it can. They must be put in around and around, so that they are not one over the other. If the support has to go up through the leg, and there is no room for these long rods, you can, where the leg grows, larger, put in short ones, and suspend from them little pieces of wood from two to three inches long, fastened across each other with wire, and suspended any length you wish them, with the same wire. Those cross-pieces are used all over the figure, and are excellent for supporting the clay. At the shoulders you put a stronger bar, for the arms are to be attached to it. It is better to make the arms of hollow lead pipe, a third or half an inch thick, for you can tie or nail that to your shoulder support, which must be firm. Then bend your arms any way you wish them. Sometimes it is well to tie the inner mass of clay to the upright support with flat pieces of rag." 
               "What is that for?" 
               "Because the clay, being heavy, is apt to slip off from the wooden upright, and that, of course, destroys everything. A little experience will teach you all this, better than I can tell you. Your great idea must be to keep your clay firm in the centre, and then it will be less likely to settle down and sag off. Always, in piling your clay, allow for its settling down several inches; so make it that much taller than you wish to have it. For a bust, a stick up through the neck and head is enough. Always start with good supports, and if outward ones are needed, a good stout wire, as large as your little finger, bent from the stand into the figure, is the best kind, with a piece of flat wood on the end, to keep it from going too far in; that is strong, and does not interfere with your view, of the work,-three or four of these often being a great help in keeping up a figure firmly. 
               "By a little trouble at first, you save a great deal of trouble at last. And now, little maid, do you think you have found out anything about sculpture? and are you going to work?" 
               "Oh, yes! thank you!" Daisy answered, with a smile. "I think I've found out ever so much, and I am going right to work." 
               "Don't you want a lump of clay to begin on? Your putty isn't nice." 
               The look of delight in her face was truly edifying, and worth much more than the clay he offered. 
               "Oh, would you give me a piece?" she said. "I would be so very much obliged to you, you don't know." 
               "Oh, yes, I'll give you as much as you can use. It-grows down in my cellar; I have a clay tree. Where shall I send it for you?" 
               "I can carry it myself," she said, eagerly. 
               "Oh, no, you cannot, it is Very heavy. Your little arms couldn't carry enough to do anything with. Tell me your number, and I'll send it right to you; and here is this scraper, you had better use; it is nicer than a new one, they always work better when they have been worn down some." 
               Words were quite out of her power for a few moments, as she took the scraper; at last, however, she found the voice to say:- 
               "Oh, I don't know what to say to thank you, you are so good and kind. I am so much obliged to you. I think I shall be perfectly happy; for I have everything I want in the world." 
               "If you want any more information, come to me again, and I will give it to you, and help you all I can." 
               "Thank you, thank you!" she answered, radiant with pleasure. "I don't know what makes you so good to me." 
                
               She could not see herself as others saw her, or she would have understood how it was pleasure to the great, strong man to give help to that little woman with the quiet face and earnest gray eyes, so eager to learn what he was able to teach her. 
               She did not know as yet the pleasure of helping on others in the path you have trod so eagerly, and, telling them what you have had to discover for yourself, make the road more plain for those who come after you. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE CONFESSION. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The unshaped stone 
                           Took outline in the dusk, as rocks unhewn, 
                           Seen from afar through floating mountain mists, 
                           Gather strange forms and human lineaments." 
                        
                      
                     ROBERT BUCHANAN'S PYGMALION. 
                   
                
               SEVERAL days had passed since her visit to the sculptor's. The clay had come to her safely a short time after she arrived at home, and had been taken up to her room by herself, too precious a burden to be trusted to the servants' hands. 
               There was no time to be given to it before dinner, and she always spent the evenings with her father; so it was put away until the next day, and she passed the night in tossing and turning, wishing for the day when awake, and when asleep haunted by dreams of the old gods and goddesses in whose company she had passed such a wonderful morning. 
               It was not an intentional deception, her keeping this work from her father. From a knowledge that her artistic efforts were not viewed with too much favor, it had grown to be rather a custom in the family to ignore the subject, and she did her work quietly and alone, unable and unwilling to go on entirely without it, yet feeling that it was in a manner contraband. Why, she had never asked; she had known it was so from the time when, as a child, the constant cry had been:- 
               "Put up your drawing now, Daisy, and go and practise. You waste too much time over it." 
               Until now, when instinctively she kept her beloved work and the joy it gave her quietly to herself, feeling that it was better so, at least, until she had something to show for the time and energy she spent on it, besides glistening eyes and a happy heart whenever the thought of it came to her. 
               Though her parents had tried in every way to ward it off, they had never given any positive commands on the subject; so she did not feel that she was breaking any orders in pursuing her work, though she well knew her mother would rather have seen her employed in any other way. 
               That it seemed a little hard to her was only natural, and she would comfort herself with the thought that some time there would be a crisis, and she would find out why they objected so strongly to what was her greatest delight; and when they saw how she loved it, would give up their dislike and let her carry out her dream of being an artist. 
               Living on the hope of this in the future, but more upon the actual delight of the present, she spent day after day at her work, oblivious of everything else. 
               With a semi-unconscious idea of pacifying "the powers that be," she had attempted a portrait bust of her father, knowing that if anything would reconcile her mother to the work, it would be to make that a success, to greet her with on her return home; knowing well the tenderest spot in that warm heart. 
               She was not an extraordinary genius, and in her work met only with the ordinary amount of success. Sometimes half an hour's work would undo the labor of two or three days; and, seeing her mistake, she would have to patiently rectify it, feeling her way step by step, groping in the darkness for the clue that she knew was waiting somewhere for the eyes bright enough to see it, and the hands brave enough to grasp it. 
               It was not altogether a flowery road she was travelling. The discouraging, disheartening times she had to pass through, when all the lines seemed to evade her, when the likeness not only would not appear, but when the humanity itself became questionable, can only be fully comprehended and appreciated by one who has gone through the same, experience. 
               But through it all, her love for her work, her pure joy in it, never failed. In spite of all discouragements, whether as a cloud or as a pillar of fire, it still went before her, and she followed it trustfully, knowing that where it led,-no matter through what difficulties,-was to her the promised land of earth. 
               Unconsciously to herself she was moulding her character with the clay, gaining in strength as much by her losses as by her successes, and laying the foundation for bearing what the future brought her, either of joy or sorrow. 
               But all of that, even the first faint glimmerings of it, was the work of time. Her first endeavors were more the curious playing of a child with a new toy, eager to find at once "where the bark came from;" and it was as the bark eluded her that her pursuit of it grew more earnest. 
               The difficulties of the search made her more keen in pursuing it, more determined to gain what was so difficult to reach. 
               But there were also times when her work gave all the delight she could wish for; when the clay seemed imbued with life and almost moved at her desire; and forgetting all else, the world contained only the wonderful work so quickly growing under her fingers. Then the joy far outweighed the pain, and she was satisfied. 
               Meantime, while she was living in this charmed realm, her affairs in the actual world around her went rather astray. She had not learned that happy sort of doing everything at once, or even that near approach to it, doing things in their proper times; it was very apt to be feast day or famine, and the continual feast day upstairs made a dreadful dearth below. 
               Lessons were poorly learned, housekeeping duties slurred over, and practising entirely neglected. 
               Mr. Ward, anxiously watching, concluded it had been a mistake for Daisy to be left alone without her mother; that they had miscalculated her ballast, and that she was not really the steady little craft she had appeared. 
               He had forgotten the affair of the putty, and had no clue to the change. For a change had certainly come over the girl. Sometimes she was so bright and full of fun that he hardly knew her then she would be dull and moping, sitting about listlessly, doing nothing but watching him. He noticed, also, that though she continually watched him, she rather avoided his society. 
               Thinking that she was dull and lonely in the house, he often proposed excursions of one kind or another, to cheer her; but noticed that, if possible, she kept them from coming off. 
               At last, seriously uneasy about her, and remembering that though he loved her so much, she was not his, own child, and he knew almost nothing of her antecedents, the horrible suspicion that there might have been insanity in her family presented itself to him, as accounting for her unusual behavior, and thinking that a man couldn't take care of woman-folk, he determined to send her to her mother, and announced the fact to her in one of her dullest spells. 
               But. she begged so hard not to be sent away, declared so earnestly that she only wanted to stay at home, that he at last relented, on condition that she would be more cheerful, and not make him uneasy by looking so doleful and unhappy. 
               "You are lonely in the house here with no one but me, Daisy," he said. "You won't have any girl friends, and you want your mamma, I believe." 
               "No, sir," she said, "I only want my papa, and my-"work, she was going to say, and then stopped. 
               The next day she thought the matter over well. She and her father had always been more like companions than father and daughter, and she could not keep this secret from him. For some weeks she had felt like a traitor in the camp, and she would not stand it any longer. Besides, if he did not know, he might send her off to the country at any moment, and then what would become of her work? 
               So she determined to tell him the first opportunity she had. 
               "Daisy," he said, that afternoon, as he was taking an after-dinner lounge, and she was pretending to read, and in reality trying to summon up courage to break to him the dreadful piece of news that she wanted to be a sculptor. 
               "Yes, sir," she answered, with a start, feeling the cold edge of the executioner's axe on her neck. 
               "You have neglected your music shamefully this summer; you never touch the piano." 
               "I don't seem to care much for the piano, father. It sounds so poor after the organ." 
               "Yes, it does; and since your mother went away we have had very little organ music. Let us go over to the church this evening." 
               Feeling that in her growing love for her own art she had not paid enough attention to his, she gave a ready consent; and, putting on her hat, they walked around to the church. 
               For some time they sung together, then saying, "Now you play for me, father," she went off to a favorite position of hers, at the end of the organ-loft, where she could lean her head on the cushioned railing and either see her father, or watch the shadows above and below in the great church. 
                
               He played for some time, and at last he drifted into the waltz in A minor. She had not heard it since the day so long ago, it seemed to her, when, haunted by the music, she had wandered about the streets to escape from it. 
               The morning came back to her in a flash, and she knew now what she had wanted,-it was the unsatisfied part of her nature that was stirred by the restless wail of the music. That was answered now, and the strains came to her, not with the old restlessness, but with a sense of the rest of work, and the aspirations that never reach their goal. 
               While her father played she recognized that she had grown into a woman since that music had rung in her ears. The last time she heard it she had been a girl, younger in heart than in years. Now she was a woman, with a definite purpose in life, and the determination to carry it out. She had not known that she was waking until she found herself awake. 
               As her father played the unended ending of the waltz, she stood behind him, and, resting a hand on each shoulder, said, in a low voice:- 
               "Father!" 
               "What, my child?" 
               "I want to be a sculptor." 
               He took his hands from the keys, and, giving a long, low whistle, tried to turn around and look at her. But, with a gentle force, she kept him from turning and seeing her face; so he sat still and gave, another whistle, longer and lower than the first. She kept her hands on his shoulders until presently he commenced to play again. Then she went and sat down in her old place. 
               He was facing a hope and wish of long standing, that she would devote herself to music; and as he saw it rapidly fading from him, he recognized how strong it had been. 
               Presently he turned around and called her:- 
               "Daisy, come and tell me all about it." 
               She came over to him again, and as he watched her, he, too, recognized the change since the spring. She knelt down on the floor by him, and, resting her arms on his knees, looked up in his face. 
               "And so my little daughter, who has suddenly grown up, wants to be a sculptor?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "How long is it since this wild idea took possession of you, my child?" 
               "Since the day mother and the boy went away." 
               "And what started you upon it?" 
               "One thing was, father, that I have always wanted something that I did not have, and never even knew what it was I wanted. That day, you know, I was alone, and everything I had to do seemed to get done with such amazing rapidity that before the morning was half over I had finished all my work and was unoccupied. I sat down to practise that same A minor waltz, and it seemed to set me wild. I kept asking myself what it wanted, and at last, unable to answer, I rose from the piano and went out to walk, intending to go down town for you. I was ashamed, however, to acknowledge myself self conquered by loneliness so soon, so thought I would-wait a little while. The waltz kept haunting me, singing itself over and over to me in that especially harrowing manner that music sometimes has, and I walked on anywhere, to escape from it. 
               "Suddenly I forgot the music, and have not thought of it again, I believe, until just now, when you played it." 
               "What made you forget it?" 
               "A very simple thing,-the bust of a little baby, yawning." 
               "Maledictions on the man who made that bust," said her father, half playfully, "and on the baby who yawned for it!" 
               "No, no, don't, please," she said, earnestly, "for if it had not been for that, I might still have been haunted by the music and my unknown desire for sculpture; and nothing ever made me as happy as it does. It is my music, father, the harmonious music of form." 
               "And what is to become of my music, Daisy?" asked her father, in a tone of disappointment; "where is my little musician who was to devote her life to it?" 
               "She never really was, dear father, and what was the faint semblance of her is quite gone. I love music as much as I ever did, but I do not believe I ever really. loved it for itself,-it was for what it brought to me. It has, ever since I can remember, taken shape to me, and I loved it for that. I will never do much at it otherwise. It always was so, even before I found out sculpture. From the time I was a child I have enjoyed it, lain about in various corners of this dear, old church, while you and mother sung, or you played, and the music has taken such beautiful shapes to me,-great white figures with deep-set eyes, that delighted me beyond everything else, and that it seemed to me was music. I always thought of tone as having form to the mind, and when at last I came to a realizing sense of sculpture, it seemed to be music embodied." 
               "How happens it that you have just found this out, when the same things have been always around you?" 
               "I do not know, sir. I have been trying to understand how I could have lived all these years of my life, feeling the want, and not knowing what it was. I believe I thought that the form music took to me was its proper form. It seems that I have gone on blindfolded, and only just had the bandage taken from my eyes. To be sure, I have seen very little statuary, but I should think it would have been enough to have taught me to love it, and yet it just came upon me suddenly at the sight of that baby's head, and I have what I have been always wanting." 
               "And you are not satisfied to make it an amusement; you want to give yourself entirely up to it?" 
               "Yes, sir, I want to give all my life to it. I always have wanted to be an artist, but since I commenced to model, I have felt that I must be; that nothing else will satisfy me." 
               "Do you think you have enough talent to make it worth while for you to give up everything for it?" 
               "I don't know, father; that only time will show; but I do know that I have enough love. The first does not seem to be my business to decide; but the latter is; and I believe I ought to obey it, that it will be right for me to work without demanding any more of the future than the present guarantees. I may be talking nonsense," she added, hastily, "but I believe I have the right idea about it; that, whatever the future may bring in the way of success, the present duty is to follow what is such a decided wish of my life, and trust the rest to God. Whether he will give me success or failure does not seem to make it less my duty to go straight ahead, and follow the bent of my life." 
               "What will your mother say to this? It has always been a terror to her, lest you should wish it." 
               "We must reconcile her to it in some way, father. You must help me." She rose, and stood by him, putting her arms around his neck. He also rose from his seat, and taking her in his arms, for like her own mother she was "a little thing," he carried her downstairs. Then they started homeward, she telling him as they went, of how she had gone on with her work up to that time. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE FIRST CRITIC. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Till none shall need inquire, 'Whose child is this?' 
                           Each gesture saying so tenderly, 'My own.'" 
                        
                      
                     E. B. B. 
                   
                
               "Now let me see what you have done, Daisy," her father said to her, as they hung up their hats on arriving at the house. 
               "Come upstairs with me," she said. 
               He followed her up to the third story, where she had moved when she outgrew her old room. 
               "O Daisy," he said, in comic despair, "what will your neat mother say when she sees this room?" 
               "Why, this is not very bad," she said,-"not half as bad as it has been. You can't help making dirt, but I try to keep it all on this oil-cloth; though somehow it will get spread around and tracked about the floor. When I step off to see the effect, I forget to wipe my feet, usually." 
               "Yes, my child, I should think you did, and your hands too, I should think," and he pointed to her photograph album which had the marks of clayey fingers upon it. 
               "Oh, I always have to open that in a hurry, and sometimes get clay on it." 
                
               "Is this the work that is stealing your heart from us?" and he pointed to a mass of rags on a table. 
               "That is the work," she answered; "but please don't say that it is stealing my heart from you, for it isn't. I love you ever so much better for it." She turned back and kissed him, then commenced to unwrap the clay. "See how much it makes me love you," she said, as she took off the last cover. 
               "Did you do that all alone, Daisy?" he asked, in surprise. 
               "Yes, sir; you are the first person that has ever seen it. You don't mean to say you recognize it?" 
               "Why, of course I do. It isn't perfect yet, by any means, but it does strike me with surprise that you should have done that unaided. I always comforted your mother by telling her that I thought you had no artistic talent whatever." 
               "And you really think I have now?" she asked, in delight. 
               "I certainly do," he answered. "It may be a case of doting old father, but that seems to me a very good beginning." 
               "'Tis love that makes the world go round,!" she said with a laugh, though there were tears in her eyes. It was so pleasant, this first praise that her work had ever received, to be given, too, by the critic whose praise she most valued. 
               "This will help to reconcile your mother to the idea, if you succeed well with it," he said. 
               "I had thought of that." 
                
               "Oho! then it was not merely 'love;' there was some policy in it too, I see." 
               "Not enough to hurt, you dear jealous father, and even if there was at the first, it wore off entirely as I worked. I never knew how much I loved my dear father's handsome face, until I tried to reproduce it; then every line seemed to me dearer than before, and the more I studied it, the more I loved it, except, to be strictly honest, when I got so confused about the likeness that I was utterly disheartened." 
               "And all this time you've been working on this quietly, and have been happy and unhappy, I have been worried to know what was the matter with you, and bothering my brain to tell what to do to cheer you up. Double-faced young woman!" 
               "Not double-faced, objectionably, when one is yours," she answered; "and now, am I to be an artist?" Her face was very eager as she watched his. 
               He thought for a few moments before answering her. He was a strong believer in letting a person follow out the natural bent of his character, thinking truly that it was not given him for nothing, or merely as a means of discipline, but as a guide to lead him along the path of life. 
               He had suffered, himself, from different opinions being held by the ruling powers when he was a boy; to which he owed it that music was the amusement, not the work of his life, and he hardly felt that he could condemn another to the same unsatisfactory fate. And yet-there was the experience of her own father before him; that sad fate of an unsuccessful artist; and she was very much like him, as he had been when the two young men had been acquaintances. Could she be allowed to follow in his footsteps? 
               The question was too much for him to decide at once; there were too many sides to it, and it would require much thought before he could say to her yea or nay. 
               As the moments passed and her father did not answer, Daisy began to grow uneasy, and the eager look in her face changed to an anxious one. At last, when she could endure it no longer, she touched him on the hands:- 
               "How is it, father?" 
               "I cannot give you an answer now, Daisy; the question is too great a one to be answered hastily; it involves too much; we must talk it over together. You must work more; give it a thorough trial before you choose for life, so that there will be no mistake." 
               "How long must I wait, father?" She could hardly control her voice as she spoke. 
               "Till you are older, dear, and until you have heard what I have been feeling, for some time now, that I ought to tell you,-your father's history." 
               "My own papa," Daisy said thoughtfully, "who died when I was a little bit of a child. I do not remember him at all; it is all blurred and confused when I try to remember before you so lovingly took me for your child. Did he give me to you before he died?" 
               "No, dear, it was not till after he died that you came to us." 
                
               "Did my mamma give me to you, then?" 
               "No; she was dead also." 
               "I have always wanted to know all about them, but thought you would tell me when you thought it was best; won't you now?" 
               "Yes, my dear Daisy, I will tell you how it was that you came to be our child. If you find the tale a sad one, you must remember that not even a sparrow falls to the ground without His notice; and as He allows these things to be, it was for some wise purpose, though it seems very hard for us to understand." 
               Daisy wrapped up the bust again in its wet cloths, and arm in arm, almost like brother and sister, the two went downstairs to the parlor. 
               It was a warm summer evening and the windows were all wide open, and as the gas was not burning, the room was lighted only by the moonlight. But the brilliant summer moonshine was all that they needed for seeing purposes, on a lazy night like this, and drawing a sofa up to the window they sat down upon it. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               DAISY HEARS HER STORY. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Weep for an infant too young to weep much, 
                         When death removed this mother." 
                     
                   
                
               "Now, father," Daisy said, slipping her little hand into his as she nestled up close to him. 
               "I don't know where to begin, Daisy; what shall I tell you first? Though it is very little I have to tell, my child." 
               "Who was my father, and what did he do, and where did he live?" 
               "He lived here, in this city. His name, as you know, was Francis Dodd, and-he was an artist." 
               "My own papa an artist!" cried Daisy, very much excited. "How delightful! why, then, of course I have a right to be an artist; I inherit it from him." 
               "Wait, Daisy, till I finish my story before you decide that. An artist's life is seldom one of great happiness; hear his before you decide. I knew him when we were young men. His art and my music brought us very much into the same company, for he had, besides, a very fine voice, which is another of your inheritances, my quondam musician. When I knew him he was a merry, entertaining young man, a very great favorite with all his friends, and most excellent company; and that was about all we knew of each other; for we were young, and did not go much deeper into life than the froth on the surface." 
               "Am I like him?" 
               "Sometimes you remind me of him, when you are in good spirits. You look like him rather, about the upper part of the face, but the lower part is different; your mouth and chin are firmer, stronger, even though you are a woman. Perhaps you inherit that from your mother." 
               "Did you ever see her; was she pretty?" 
               "No, I never saw her. After I had become thoroughly wrapped up in my music, my father wanted me to promise to give it up, for he said it was not sufficiently practical for a young man to make a business of; and, as I never refused him anything he asked, I consented. Knowing there were no half-way measures safe for me, I gave up also all of my old haunts and associates, devoting myself entirely to hard study for my profession. In that way I lost sight of your father for many years, indeed until after his death, when you came to us." 
               "Then how came you by me?" 
               "We will come to that presently. All the rest that I have to tell you I learned from friends of his after you came to us, and, as I said, it isn't much. A lady with whom he lived told me most of it, and she seemed to be very fond of him." 
               He put his arm around her and drew her close to him. It was a pitiful thing, telling this young girl, in the first flush of her coming womanhood, the short, sad story of her parents, and he wanted to shield her as much as possible from the sorrow it would bring. 
               "As an artist, dear, he was not very successful, as far as fame or wealth goes." 
               "Poor papa!" Daisy said, under her breath. "Why 'was it?" 
               "As far as I can judge, from what I knew of him when we were young, it must have been from a want of fixedness of purpose, for he was certainly very talented. Any way, he just did support himself with the assistance of pupils and illustrating; but in spite of that he was happy and bright. 
               "After a while he brought home a wife, a pretty little thing, and no one knew who she was or where she came from, and Mrs. Harris, the landlady, could not find out why it was, until after you were born, when it came out that her parents had refused to let her marry your father because he was an artist, and when she did it notwithstanding their objections they disowned her." 
               "What horrid, horrid people!" said Daisy, indignant. "My poor dear mamma and papa! Who was she?" 
               "I could not find out. Mrs. Harris did not even know whether she had lived here, they kept it so secret. After you came, my little darling, affairs began to grow worse, less money came in and more had to go out; but you cheered them, and Mrs. Harris said that your little mother stood and sat for pictures till her strength almost gave out, but still kept up her spirits before your father, though she would hear her telling you that if you only had your rights he would not have to work so hard. 
               "But affairs grew worse, and the brave little mother took some sewing to do when he was not by, to help on. Then he lost some of his pupils, and had to leave Mrs. Harris's, though they were very sorry to part with each other; but she was not rich, and so it couldn't be helped. He was too honorable to take advantage of her affection for himself and his family, and so left her for a place more suited to his means. Before he went, however, he painted a little picture of you, your mother, and himself, which he gave Mrs. Harris. I begged it from her for you, knowing how you would value it when you grew up and knew Its history. I will give it to you, and tell you about it after a while. 
               "The next place they went to, it was very much the same, only sadder; and now we will hasten over the rest. No use in harrowing up your heart, my darling, when they have been at rest so many years. At last your father was taken sick and died, and soon after your mother died also"-Mr. Ward paused, hating to go on with the rest of the mournful history to the girl who had been the heroine of it, and who was listening now with quiet little sobs that were very touching to hear. 
               "Go on, please," she said. "How did I come to you? It can't be any worse; they were not there to suffer any more from it, and your loving-kindness has made me forget it." 
               "The people with whom you and your mother lived were very poor, and after she died they kept you for some time; but you were not contented and finally wandered away, and, after making one or two inquiries for you, they let the matter drop." 
               "One evening," he commenced again, after a pause, "Marion and I went to the church to have some music. It was rather late, and the church was growing dark. We sang at the organ for some time; then she grew restless (it was just about year since we had buried our child Daisy from that church), and, telling me to play for her, she went down into the church where she had last seen her darling. Presently she called to me in a startled tone:- 
               "Norman, here is a dead child!' 
               "Very much surprised I ran down to her, and there we found you; you had fainted on the chancel steps. We carried you home, and you have been our loved and loving child ever since." 
               "How long was that after mamma died?" Daisy asked in a strangely excited voice. 
               "A year," Mr. Ward answered, hesitatingly. 
               "And where was I all that time?" the girl asked, a strong shudder passing over her,-"wandering about in the streets?" 
               "Yes, my darling child," Mr. Ward answered, kissing her and holding her close in his arms, "but not less under our loving Father's eye for that; it was his way for bringing you to us. Don't think any more of that now; only remember the happy ending. We found a new daughter, and you a new home." 
               "That accounts for the dreadful dreams I have, and remember having had all my life, even though I forgot the cause," she said, in a very tearful, excited way. "How dreadful that was! What had I done that I should have such an awful thing happen to me, to be a street beggar? So you took me in to your home out of the street?" 
               "My dear child," said Mr. Ward, in a grave, earnest voice, "don't talk in that way about it, or I shall be very sorry I told you. We took you in out of God's church, where he had led you, through, sad ways to be sure, that we might find you. He did it all; so we must not question why, even though we cannot understand it. He took our Daisy, and then gave us you. He took your mother and father, and gave you us. All that time we were wandering through an empty house, deserted by the child's feet and voice that made it home. We must neither of us question 'Why?' for it is a want of faith in Him who 'doth not willingly afflict the children of men.'" 
               He held the sobbing girl in his arms, tenderly talking to her and stroking her hair until she was somewhat quieter. Then she said:- 
               "How came I in the church, and how long had I been there? I seem to have some confused remembrance of it." 
               "You said, dear, that you had gone in there, the evening before we found you, because it was bright and warm, and, falling asleep in one of the galleries, you were locked in without any one knowing it; and before we found you the next evening you had fainted for want of food. We found the one child where we lost the other, and she had yellow hair like the other and the same name." 
               "How good it was in you to take me in, when you did not know but that I might be a very bad child!" 
               "That shows, Daisy, how God watched over you even there. Marion said at once, as soon as you revived from the faint, before we knew anything of you, that she knew you were a lady born; even your late life had not hidden it." 
               "Tell me something more, father," she asked presently. "Which one of you first proposed to keep me?" 
               "Marion first spoke of it; but I think it was in both our hearts, from the time when you were lying on the bed in our room, and we found it so hard to rouse you out of the faint. I think we both thought then that, if you ever came to life again, we would keep you with us." 
               Then he went on, and told her of that night; of how they had found out that her name was Daisy; how his wife had put their Daisy's clothes on her, and given her the same little room their child had had, and so often in that first night gone to look at her, as she lay asleep. 
               And as he told it all, the grown girl nestled closer to the heart that had taken in the lonely child, and when he finished talking to her, she was silent for some time, and then said:- 
               "Father, hearing all this about my dear papa and mamma, and that he was an artist, even though an unsuccessful one, instead of discouraging me, as you perhaps thought it would, only makes me more anxious and determined to follow the same path; for perhaps if I should ever do anything worthy, in our art, it will go down to his credit, and so I'll please myself by thinking I am helping him, working for him, the only way I can ever do it now. 
               "This afternoon, when you objected to my being a sculptor, the wicked, rebellious thought came into my head that you were not my real father, and had no right-to say I should not be an artist. I am sorry I thought that, and beg your pardon for the ingratitude. Now I know my poor little story, and how noble and generous you two have been to me, it will be a pity if I cannot do as much for you, as you did for your father. So I promise you, that I will not be an artist till you and mother give your willing consent, and if you say no, I will try not to want to be. 
               "Only let me go on with my work, that I may endeavor to prove myself worthy of the high vocation I have chosen-to want." 
               "Thank you, my dear child, for the promise you have freely given, that I should never have asked for, feeling I had no right to it. Your greatest advocate is the sorrow and loss that my promise brought me, and I will not hold you to yours, unless it seems very decidedly the wisest course, indeed the only wise one. You will trust me, won't you?" 
               "Yes, sir, heartily and entirely, I hope." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               MR. WARD SURRENDERS. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Soft, my sister! not a word! 
                        By speaking, we prove only we can speak: 
                        Which he, the man here, never doubted. What 
                        He doubts, is whether we can do the thing. 
                        bring your statue, 
                        And if 'tis e'er so little like the god 
                        Who looks out from the marble silently, 
                        there's no need to speak. 
                        The universe shall henceforth speak for you, 
                        And witness, she who did this thing, was born 
                        To do it,-claims her license in her work." 
                     
                   
                
               A FEW days passed and by mutual consent the subject was rather dropped between the two. The only visible result of that evening's talk was that they were more loving, and each strove more to please the other, Daisy making time to practise! again, because her father liked it, which she had not done since the advent of sculpture. 
               One morning, as he was leaving the breakfast table, she said to him:- 
               "Father, as we may go to see mother and the boy, or they may come back soon, can't you give me some regular sittings, that I may try and get the bust done, and a good likeness, before either of these events happen?" 
               "Yes, Daisy, since 'sitting' is all you require of me, I will gratify you with the greatest pleasure. What time?" 
               "Any time that suits you." 
               "Well, then, I will come home early, and we will have dinner late, so that you can have the benefit of all the daylight. I'll not have you putting out your eyes at this early stage of the game." 
               During the day Daisy was in a great state of excitement; the first sitter Was an era in her life, though, if she had but known it, it was not half so trying as the work'she had been going through, endeavoring to get the likeness without him. 
               She made the room as clean from clay as was quite consistent with a sculptor's ideas of possibility, and by the time her father came home had worked herself into a state of nervousness highly beneficial to work and worker! 
               Her father, noticing it, tried to divert her mind in a measure, but it was not possible to do much in that line under the existing circumstances of a first sitting. Perhaps the thing he could have done most conducive to that end would have been to petrify the moment he took his seat. But he did not do that, and it was only natural that she should regard him as a species of dissolving view, here one minute, liable to be invisible the next, or as a kaleidoscopic picture, totally changed with the least movement of the head, such an uncertain thing does the first human flesh a young sculptor works from, seem to him. 
               The delight and relief experienced on realizing that a mass of flesh does maintain comparatively the same position, and not disperse like a ball of quicksilver under pressure, must be felt to be appreciated. 
               In vain her father told her she need not work so hard or so fast; he would sit for her every day till she finished. She worked with a force that brought the blood to her head till it ached, and reduced her, at the end of the sitting, to a state of limpness and exhaustion that made her father declare that, if she did not take it more coolly, he would do it no more. 
               "I'll get used to it some time, I suppose," she Said; "but as yet I cannot convince myself when I look at you and see any point or marking, or what makes the likeness, that I'll ever see it again, and so feel that I am seizing it for life." 
               After dinner, seeing that she still looked worn out by the work, her father proposed their going over to the church to have some music, and she gladly consented, feeling that she would get more rest from it than anything else. 
               Sitting in her old place in the organ-loft, with the deep-moving tones of the organ ringing in her ears, and falling gently on her heart, she thought over the strange story told her by her father, of her being found in this church; then, going farther back, tried to recall some of her street life before she had fallen asleep in the church. But her pleasant, quiet home life afterwards had wiped it all out, and she could remember very little. 
               Of her parents she hardly dared to think as yet; it was so pitiful to her, in the midst of comfort and plenty, to think of their great need, that she felt that time must soften the picture a little before she could look on it with calmness. 
               Walking home that evening in the starlight, she said, "Father, I am going to take a class in the mission school. I have always objected very much to doing it, but I concluded this evening, in trying to recall that night in the church, that it would be right for me to do it,-a kind of thank-offering; and that, perhaps, remembering what I had once been, I would be more gentle with them, and help them more than any one who can know nothing of it except from hearsay." 
               "I, too, will take a class, Daisy," answered her father, "and we'll work together." 
               At the sittings, in a few days, Daisy having begun to find out that the features of the face were very often to be found in the same place, was so much more composed that she was able to talk 
               "I do not see, Daisy," said her father, "how you managed to get so much of a likeness without any sittings." 
               "I was perfectly surprised, father, to see how little I knew of your face. I would have said that I knew every line in it by heart; and yet, when I commenced to model this, I found that I hardly knew the real lines any better than a stranger. I was completely in the dark about them, and had to study and stare at a line twenty times before I could catch it. Didn't you notice how I used to look at you all the time?" 
               "Yes, I did; and it made me more uneasy about you than ever. It seemed so peculiar, the way you watched me." 
               "No wonder; for when you were talking to me, I would often forget entirely what you were saying, and think,-There, that line goes up, instead of down. How much deeper set the eye is than I thought, and fullest there. That line in the forehead carries a great deal more character in it than mine does." 
               "And all my wise homilies would be lost!" 
               "Oh, no, not lost," she answered, playfully. "You were benefited by them, if I was not. You know it is more blessed to give than to receive." 
               "That depends on what you give,-advice, for instance. How did you commence that thing?" 
               "Calls it a thing!" Daisy said, apostrophizing the ceiling. "I commenced it by borrowing one of the cook's earthen-ware pans, and filling it with clay. There it is, gracefully covered with a chair, so you wouldn't see it. I borrowed earthen ware, because wood is apt to leak, and tin rusts, which spoils the clay. Next I borrowed her biscuit-beater, to make my clay firm and solid with." 
               "That accounts for our having heavy biscuit." 
               "No, it don't, for I sometimes returned it to her, and haven't had it now for a week. Then I borrowed this table, because it was firm, and didn't shake. Then taking the clay out of her pan, I put it on her table, and pounded it with her mallet until I thought I had it pretty solid. Then I rested, for it was dreadful work. The next day I began cutting it out. I had put on a great deal more than was necessary, and so had to take it off; by which experience I learned that, in piling your clay, it is better to have a definite form in your mind, and, as much as you can, pile up to it; keep the rough mass of your clay in some relative proportion to what it is going to be." 
               "Can you do that? Doesn't the clay shrink as it dries?" 
               "Yes, sir, it does; and it settles down with its own weight. It is more that than shrinking. You have to allow for that settling down in proportion as your clay is very wet or dry. I did not do it, and so this lost a good deal of its height in the course of a week or two." 
               "What did you do then?" 
               "I lifted it up from its place, piled up more clay, and then put it on top again. The consequence was, that when I came up to bed that night, the whole thing had fallen over, and was very badly mashed, because the top was heavy, and so much dryer than the bottom that the latter gave no support; so my work was most of it lost. I picked it up and fixed it more strongly, and learned not to put hard clay on top of soft. But you did look very peculiar and disorderly. Your nose was bent over on your cheek, one eye very badly mashed, and part of your forehead gone." 
               "Why, that was too bad; so discouraging." 
               "Yes, but it wasn't as bad as the next accident it met with. I discovered that I had made the neck too short, and I didn't know what to do. At last I decided the easiest thing would be to cut the neck in two and pile in more clay. I took a wire, and made with it a nice clean circular cut, lifted off the head from the stick run through it, and put in more clay, then put it on again, running the stick into the same hole. I thought there would be no danger of its falling again, for the stick would hold it. But I was to learn more strikingly that putting new cloth on an old garment was not according to Scripture. 
               "Coming up at night, I found it had again fallen over, breaking the stick as it fell, and was very badly bruised. But I was used to it then, and did not weep many tears. I stuck in a new stick, stronger than the first, put some more clay on, placed the head on the stick, and then, tying a handkerchief around the forehead like a bandage, fastened it to the window, and supported it by sticks put from the head downwards, and under the chin; then wrapped up the head and shoulders in wet rags, and left the neck uncovered until it hardened equal to the rest. Then I ventured to take off the bandage and the outside props, and trust to its own sense of dignity." 
               "Was that all the trouble you had?" 
               "Oh, no indeed, sir! It was ever so long before I could learn how to keep my clay the proper consistency. Sometimes I would make it so wet that the eyebrows would be meandering down to the mustache; then, trying another plan, it would get so dry that the end of the nose would crack off; and it seemed that I never would learn the proper balance. I finally, by using soft, coarse rags (the coarser the better, for they hold the moisture longer than fine ones), and sponges in some places where it was most likely to get hard, learned to manage it better, putting ting a good many thicknesses of rag in one place, and a few in another, according to the necessity of the particular spot. 
               "Then, finding that when the rags touched a place they left their mark, and destroyed the finer touches, when I wrapped it up I put sticks in the neck, and a hooped piece over the top, so that the weight of the rags would not rest on the clay where I had worked much, particularly the face." 
               "Do you take off all those rags every time you want to wet it, or pour water over it?" 
               "I tried for a while pouring water over it, but found that it ran down all the principal points, and destroyed the texture of the clay, washing off the fine clay and leaving the sand; so, after ruining the end of my nose in that way, I stopped it, and thought it was worth the trouble to take off the rags, wet them, and put them on carefully again." 
               "What has become of the lazy young woman I used to know, who hated all trouble?" 
               "I don't know, father; all I know of her is, that she doesn't apply to sculpture, however she may to other things. This work gets the better of all my laziness. Don't you remember what Longfellow says?- 
                      
                        "'For his heart was in his work, and the heart 
                        Giveth grace unto every art.' 
                     
                   That is it. I never seemed to be thoroughly roused to anything before. Surely that must mean something." 
               "We will see in time, Daisy; we must not be too hasty in deciding such an important point, for it would be dreadful for you to make a failure." 
               "Somehow I do not seem to think of that, father, it seems to be so little my concern. There are floating in my brain some half-remembered words:- 
                     "'Do thou thy work; leave its result with God;'
                   and, indeed, that seems to me the only platform that it is necessary to have. Where is the courage and faith in laboring when you know you are going to succeed? Anybody can do that. 
               "But when you go forward with your work, because you know it is your work, and the right thing in the world for you to do, then you are exercising courage and faith, and will meet with a blessing. 
               "I don't give this as a new idea, or original with me; but it is gradually making its way into my heart, that success, that is, what the world calls success, is not the only or the greatest blessing work brings. That if you labor from love of a thing, you think very little of what the world will say of it, in the pleasure it gives you. It seems to me that the doing it is the pleasure, the blessing. 
               "I know," she added, with a laugh, "that this is very fine talk for any one who hates exertion, and has been as lazy as I have been, for so far I have done nothing to show that it is anything more than talk; but it is only lately that I have felt it, only since I came to my real work that I have felt the delight of it. I suppose that is natural; other people's work doesn't fit us, any more than their clothes would. Give me a few years, and I will prove, I hope, that this is more than talk,-that it is my life." 
               Daisy was not apt to talk so earnestly about slight things, and her words carried effect with them. Mr. Ward was gradually coming over to the enemy, though he did not know how his wife would take his defection. But,-tell it not in Gath,-watching Daisy working in the clay which yielded so readily to her touch and will, and seemed such an obedient servant, or, as a sculptor finds it, an obedient master, he, too, came under the wonderful fascination it exerts; he understood how, inheriting her father's devotion to art, she should find this branch she had chosen more beautiful and satisfying than anything else she had ever come across, and wish to serve it with her whole heart and life. 
               And so watching her, and coming under the same spell, he one day picked up a lump of clay, and, taking one of her scrapers, went earnestly to work, and became so interested in the face he was searching for in the clay, that he forgot he was sitting for her, and did not notice how she watched him in silent amusement, knowing that innocent lump of clay was working wonders for her, and pleading her cause more; eloquently than anything else could do; so, with a happy heart, she worked on silently, waiting for him to speak first. 
               At last he put it down with a sigh, and said:- 
               "No wonder you are fond of it, Daisy; there is certainly a strange kind of fascination about the work. But it is too much for me. Ah, little girl, you are going to surpass your old father." 
               "My old father, indeed!" she answered gayly. "He isn't old, and I won't have him slandered; besides, I've no idea of surpassing him. He has his music, and I have mine, that's all." 
               "Yes, you are right, Daisy; it is like music, embodied music, with the same mingled joy and sadness about it." 
               "Oh! everything is the same, more or less," said Daisy, with that grand vagueness incidental to the works of the old masters. 
               The consequence of Mr. Ward's attempt at sculpture was a letter written that night to his wife, to prepare her, as she was soon coming home, for Daisy's wish. 
               "What you have always dreaded," he wrote, "has come at last. Daisy wants to be an artist, and, what is worse, a sculptor; but the child cannot be blamed, any more than for her yellow hair; she inherits both, and I don't know that we have any right to thwart her. She is very good about it, and promises not to be an artist till we give our willing consent, and, if we say no, to try and be reconciled. But I can see that her heart is bent on it; she is roused as I never saw her, and seems to have grown more this summer than she ever did before. She must be right in saying it is her work, and I do not blame her for thinking so. I have tried it, and can imagine how any one with talent (and that she has some is quite certain) can find it a very absorbing occupation. I expect we will have to give way to her, and do what we can, by training and balancing her character, to enable her to sail safely through the stormy seas of an artist's life. 
               "Her father's life and experience, which I told her, thinking the time had come for her to know it, instead of discouraging her, only seemed to make her more determined. 
               "If she has the real artist instinct in her, and we give way to it, her life will be far from an easy one. And if we deny her wish, it will be much worse, for I know, from my own experience, that nothing is worse than an unsatisfied aspiration of this kind. Trying and failing is not nearly so hard to stand, for then you have tried, and done what you could, and it is not because you did not have a chance that you are not where you wish to be. 
               "If she keeps on as she has done, we must consent." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               TWO YEARS AFTER. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The days have moved 
                           Pleasantly o'er us. What has been denied 
                           To our endeavor? Life goes unreproved. 
                           To make the best of all things is the best 
                           Of all means to be happy. This I know, 
                           But cannot phrase it finely." 
                        
                      
                     OWEN MEREDITH. 
                   
                
               "NORMAN!" 
               "What, Marion?" and her husband turned from the piano, towards her; for, when she spoke in that tone, there was sure to be "something on her mind." 
               "Daisy must have a change of scene; must go away." 
               "Why, what is the matter now? I never saw her happier than she appears at this moment." And they both gazed at the picture in the next room. 
               Down on the floor were Daisy and the boy, now a sturdy urchin two years old. Emulating the "Twa Corbies," he had "perched himself on her breast-bone," and was apparently endeavoring to "pluck her eyes out, one by one," from the fierce lunges that he made in that direction. She skilfully parried them, and, catching the dimpled little hands, would hold them prisoners till the culprit would beg for mercy, only to make wilder attacks when released. 
               The disregard of order and etiquette was seemingly very amusing, for peals of laughter would come from the two engaged, that to the two listening were rather sweeter than any music ever written. 
               "Why, Marion! she seems to imagine she is a boy again. I do not, I must confess, see where you perceive signs of a change of scene being needed." 
               "Just there, where you say you've never seen her happier before. She hasn't had a fair chance in life, that she should be such a quiet little puss. I am beginning to think that perhaps we did wrong not to send her to school; that mixing more with girls of her own age would have been good for her; that, in our desire to keep her free from the mischief learned at schools, we caused her to lose some of the childishness of her years, by associating only with us, who, though we may be very nice people, still are not all the companions that a child and girl needs." 
               "But she don't care much for girl friends, or she could have had plenty of them,-as many as she wanted." 
               "There is the very point where school would perhaps have been good for her; she would have been thrown so much with girls that she could not have helped liking some of them, or at any rate getting used to their ways." 
               "And then we would have lost our simple white Daisy, who, with all her eccentricities of genius, is worth all the hot-house flowers you find blooming in schools." 
                
               "Why, you wax quite poetical on the subject," said his wife, with a laugh. 
               "Well I might," he answered. "I am not the first man who has 'dropped into poetry' on the subject of a Daisy. But what do you want? what are you going to do? for I know you have some deep project on hand." 
               "Merely to send her away to spend the summer, among some young people." 
               "And what shall I do? You and the boy are such devoted friends that I shall be left quite alone." 
               "Oh, no, you can come and play with me. I feel quite capable of taking care of two such boys. But, seriously," she added, "I do think it will be the best thing we can do for her now. She is getting too much absorbed in her clay, and, though I do not dislike it as much as I used to, before she is entirely given over to it, I want her to mix more with girls, and rub off some of her notions, and rub in some others." 
               "Much she'll be improved by that!" 
               "If it does nothing else for her, she will learn to test her powers, and measure herself more justly, and so, perhaps, keep out of some extravagances. She's never been young and foolish, and if, as I believe, girls have to go through with that stage some time or other, she had better take it when she is young, and, like the measles, it isn't so bad." 
               "Then you believe in exposing any one to a direful disease?" 
               "No; merely to inoculation, that they may have it in a mild form when their system is in a sufficiently healthy condition to resist it in its worst. With her mind full of her art, she is likely to pass through the trial comparatively freely, and only leave behind some of her ideas and notions that she will be as well without. You and Otto Raymond will make her conceited. There is nothing like half-a-dozen merry girls for taking the conceit out of anything, particularly a girl like themselves. And thanks to your good teaching, my dear husband, I believe she has too good principle to be hurt by them. 
               "Only let her try it, and if she seems to find it very intolerable, she may come back and bury herself entirely in clay, and you may play her funeral march." 
               "Very well, Marion; as I cannot help myself, I will give my consent, provided she doesn't object to it too violently." 
               "Fortunately, as Miss Susan Nipper would have said, she may be old, but she's not a Methuselah yet, and I think the prospect of a pleasant series of visits will not be wholly objectionable to her." 
               "Where will you send her?" he asked, resignedly. 
               "To the Skinners first, I believe. They have been very pressing in their invitations to us to come to their country place and see them, and only the other day told me what a pleasant time they were going to have this summer, and asked, if I could not come myself, at least to send up Daisy. They are about as fair as the average run of girls, and have a good set of associates, so that Daisy will not be likely to meet any dubious people. You can go up with her and stay a few days to make her feel at home, then come back, and leave her to fight her own battles, try her mettle; and then if she still adheres to it, come back to her clay." 
               "I believe you only do this to try and divert her attention in hope that she will give up art." 
               "Perhaps that has a good deal to do with it," said his wife. "I hope to the end." 
               "No use, Marion; nothing, I believe, will turn her now. Indeed I should not have much respect for her if she gave it up, after she has made so much progress and seems to have reason to hope she may be successful." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               DAISY FINDS WHO WAS HER MOTHER. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Life treads on life, and heart on heart, 
                        We press too close in church and mart, 
                        To keep a dream or grave apart." 
                     
                   
                
               "WELL, Daisy," said her father, the morning after they arrived at the Skinners, "how do you think you are going to enjoy yourself here after I go?" 
               "I don't know yet, father; it may be less bad than I thought. In fact, to tell the truth, I do not feel that violent opposition to it that I expected to; it seems to me that it may be very agreeable here. Bessie Longford is so pretty that I enjoy looking at her. Perhaps my objection to girls has been because I did not know them well, and so am afraid of them." 
                      
                        "'Yet seen too oft, familiar with his face, 
                        We first endure, then pity, then embrace,'" 
                     
                   quoted her father. 
               "No, sir, I do not promise that; I shall be satisfied if I like them." 
               "You are moderate in your demands on yourself. I shall expect to find you deep in a devotion to some of these girls, that is to 'last you all your lifetime;' and I'll quite rejoice to see you caught at last in a regular gushing friendship." 
               "Not much danger of that," laughed Daisy. "I don't gush." 
               "I shall live to see you a gusher yet," her father answered. 
               After staying three or four days, and seeing her apparently at ease with the family, Mr. Ward left for home, and reported her to his wife as much more amenable to society than he had imagined she would be. 
               At first Daisy did have a very pleasant time. There was something so new to her in being one of seven girls staying in a house together, and bent upon nothing but having a good time, that she gave herself up to it, and enjoyed it with the gayest of them. 
               But the newness worn off, unremitted pleasure began to pall on her taste, and she longed for something to do, even hailing with joy several holes she discovered in her stockings, as they afforded her steady though hated employment for a few hours. 
               The mornings were spent in croquet, until it became too sunny and hot, ten-pins or billiards till they were tired of them, and then napping, reading novels, or lounging about the house until time to dress for dinner; after which meal the routine was reversed, ending with croquet until dusk and dews put a stop to it, and sent them under shelter to lounge or dance away the evening until bedtime. 
               "If this is the life of rich fashionable girls," she wrote home, "why, I am thankful for an ordinary degree of poverty. I could forgive them if they would do anything, even play croquet in a stirring, forcible manner. But they dawdle over that and only make it an excuse for much flirting. If they will flirt, I wish they would do it up in separate parcels. But this is the way it goes: it is Blue's time to play, and some one who is innocent enough to be really playing croquet, Fanny Skinner or myself, calls 'Blue, Blue, it is your time to play.' Blue is talking to Yellow an eighth of a mile from her ball, and they make up for being enemies in the game by the most desperate friendship out of it. When at last you attract her attention, you must show her her ball, and tell her what wicket she is for. Turning to make a particularly affecting speech to Yellow, she roquets your ball (you are her partner) way across the field when you were only two inches from your arch, and then, by a skilful stroke, places herself the other side of her wicket, without going through, so that it will take two or three blows to put her right. That is croquet! I would almost rather have them fight over it, as that betokens some interest in the game. Fanny and I occasionally have delightful games with two balls apiece; then it is some fun. Not that I pretend to put on airs of superiority and appear not to like talking to the gentlemen who lounge around here. I do like to talk to them when they have anything to say; but the thing is, I like to do what I am doing; talk if I'm talking, or play if I'm playing. 
               "And then the way they talk! Girls are such geese! and, not to be partial, young men are no better. I listen to their conversation sometimes, to try and light on an idea,-which I don't often do,-and if I am not edified, at least be amused. But it is usually so inane that I wonder they will waste the breath necessary to utter it. It isn't even funny nonsense, of which I am very fond, only 'nothings,' not even 'airy,' for they are as heavy as lead. 
               "I see you shaking your head at me, mother, and reminding me of 'That mercy I to others show, that mercy show to me;' but I don't believe I go on so; if I have nothing to say I keep still, and you'd better be a stupid poke, which I often feel myself, than waste the time with such trash. It puts me out of patience. They seem to be smart enough, these girls; why do they go on so like drivelling idiots? I am sick of it, and believe it is only because they have nothing to do. They laugh at me a good deal for what they call my severely practical mind; and, of course, I defend it and say no one is happy or worth anything unless they have some definite aim in life, and work for it. They say, Oh, you think that because you want to be an artist; it is all well enough for any one who has some particular talent" But isn't there something for all women to do, besides sewing clothes, and putting them on? It seems to me there must be, if they will only take the trouble to find it. 
               "Fanny is the most sensible of the set, and seems to be fond of art; though they won't hear of her being an artist, she says. I wonder why not? I help her a little in her drawing. She is a nice girl, and seems fond of me. So does her grandfather, Mr. Norris, but he is so cold and stern that I am a little afraid of him. 
               "I think, father, that you will have to come for me soon, or I will be so demoralized and crabbed you won't know me, even if you don't think from this letter that I am so already." 
               Daisy was destined to find out in an unexpected manner why Fanny Skinner was not allowed to be an artist. She was sitting in her room one day, sketching from the window, and Bessie Longford and Carrie Davis were in their room, which opened into hers. 
               They were talking of people's antecedents in a manner that seemed to her,-to put it mildly,-at least, uninteresting. Two or three times she thought she would rise and shut the door between the two rooms; but it was a close, stifling afternoon, and all the air came through that way, so she tried to lose herself in her work, and not hear the talk, which was of a nature most unpleasant to her, made even more so by being about people of whom she knew nothing. 
               At last, however, her attention was attracted by hearing the name of their host and hostess. 
               "Notwithstanding she was his own daughter," Bessie Longford was saying, "just because she would not marry the rich man, whom she did not love, and would marry the poor artist, whom she did love,-and I don't blame her, for they say he was a very handsome, nice fellow,-he cut her off entirely; had nothing more to do with her, and, I believe, never saw her again." 
               "What became of her?" asked Carrie. 
                
               "Oh, I believe she followed the usual fate of such people, died of starvation somewhere, probably,-such is the way things happen,-within a stone's throw of her father's house, where they were rolling in wealth. I have heard my mother say she was a proud, sensitive little thing, and after her father behaved in that way she would have died before she would have asked help from him; so I suppose she did. I wonder," added this fair, delicate girl, lazy from excessive wealth and nothing to do but amuse herself, "how many of the starving poor of our city that we hear so much talk about, are made up of just such cases. It would be an interesting subject of study." 
               "I am surprised," said Carrie, "that, since an artist served him such a trick, he seems so fond of Daisy Ward, with her excessive artistic propensities. I should think he would want to steer clear of the race. What was his name, poor fellow?" 
               "Frank Dodd, I believe,-an inartistic name. Think of a man with such a name daring to be an artist! No wonder he failed!" and they both laughed, as if the idea were excessively funny. 
               Poor Daisy had listened to this story from the first with an intuitive feeling that it might be her own dear, dead mother they were talking of, and her heart had grown heavier and heavier until the close had confirmed her suspicions. For a few moments she was stunned by it, wondered what it could mean, and what she should do. 
               Then, coming to a realizing sense of the fact that she was resting under the roof of the man who had disowned her mother, his own daughter, and left her to die of starvation, she felt that she could not stay there another moment: the atmosphere of the house stifled her, and she must leave it as quickly as possible. 
               Going into the next room and confronting the girls, who were startled by the sight of her white face, she said:- 
               "My name is not Ward; that is my adopted parents' name. Mine is Daisy Frances Dodd, and I am the daughter of that poor, despised artist and his wife, whose greatest disgrace was being this man's child." 
               And going back to her own room before they could collect themselves to speak, she picked up her hat and shawl, and left the house, feeling her blood boiling so she could not be still. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE FLIGHT. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The night is very dark and very lonely: 
                           And as dark, and all as lonely, is my heart: 
                           far apart 
                           From my old self, seems my new self." 
                        
                      
                     SERBSKI PESME. 
                   
                
               ON and on she went, heedless of her path, only anxious to escape from the house that sheltered these people, and from the unhappy thoughts that pursued her. 
               In the bitterness of her heart she never wanted to see them again. She felt that she could never forgive them, and it was inexpressibly exasperating to her to think she had been their guest, sat at their table, shared their hospitality,-all of which had been refused to her mother. 
               These people had deeply wounded the mother she loved so tenderly in memory, who, under the worst circumstances, had always kept a bright smile for her loved ones, and uttered no complaint but that pathetic one over her child:- 
               "Ah, baby, if we only had our rights, he would not have to work so hard." 
               The contrast was very painful to her: the one always thoughtful of others, not saying "We would be more comfortable," but "He would not have to work so hard;" the others leading a prosperous, selfish life, without an ungratified wish. Her own mother dying from hard work, and want of food; and her aunt living on the fat of the land, and never lifting a finger to serve herself. 
               They might have spared, and never missed it out of their abundance, enough to have given her parents a comfortable home, where she would have been now a loving, happy child, with her own mother and father to watch over her, instead of an orphan, miserable and perplexed, only anxious to put the greatest distance between herself and her newly found, and only known relatives. 
               When after years softened the wretchedness, she could not bear to think of how she suffered that afternoon as she fled from her troubles and troublers. 
               Her only relief was in swift motion,-that deadened the pain in her heart. So whenever her perfect impotence to help herself came upon her with a fresh burst of horror, she would quicken her pace, and run, as if no swiftness of flight could put too great a distance between herself and the house she left. She never thought where she was going, or what end she was gaining by her flight; it was only the natural instinct of escape, and in giving way to it her nature was taking revenge on itself for the quietness and restraint of past years. 
               At last, either because she had viewed the subject in all its worst phases and was becoming familiar with them, or, as we can repeat a word until it loses all meaning to us, from dwelling too long on the subject, her mind refused to comprehend it any longer, she gradually became conscious of surrounding objects. 
               Each feature of the landscape was entirely new to her, and she suddenly seemed to have waked from a horrible nightmare, in a totally strange land. 
               A long stretch of commons lay around her, belted far off with an unbroken ring of trees. Standing as she did with the limits of the commons equally distant from her, she had no landmarks, and in searching the horizon had turned so often as to become completely confused, and had not the least idea from which direction she had come. It was late in the afternoon, and, to make the situation worse, a violent summer storm was rapidly spreading over the sky. 
               Up to the zenith it was already, that blue, blue gray, that seems to carry possibilities for anything in its deep solemnity, even to the overwhelming and destroying of the whole earth,-an aspect of the heavens that makes one think involuntarily of the end of the world, and gives a sense of quietness and awe. 
               Rapidly rising above the horizon was the nucleus of the storm, a mass of angry tossing clouds fringed around the outer edge with white, more ghastly even than the gray, torn as it was by the winds. 
               The storm seemed ready to burst in a moment, and hardly knowing herself under these strange, wild circumstances, Daisy thought that, as she was lost, the only thing to do was to seek the shelter of the nearest trees. 
               The wind had commenced to blow violently, and she noticed how strange it seemed to feel this strong wind, and yet to see nothing moved by it except her dress, and the grass which lay as smooth as if just mowed, not raising a blade. 
               She had not much choice of direction in which to seek shelter, for she found it impossible to face the wind, so had to turn, and go wherever it wished to carry her. 
               As she was running rapidly before it, she thought, "Now I will be killed, and then they will find me, and, knowing who I am, will be sorry for the way they treated my mother." 
               But such heroic thoughts did not occupy her long, for the rain came down in torrents, sheet after sheet blown by the wind, so that escape and shelter from it were her only thoughts. 
               "Would she never reach the trees?" she wondered as she ran, while her wet skirts clung around her ankles, impeding her progress. 
               From feeling under her feet pebbles instead of grass, and smooth ground in the place of the little hillocks and roughnesses of the commons, she thought she must have struck a road, and hastened on, knowing it must lead to some inhabited place. 
               The rain and wind seemed to come from every direction at once, and her strength was nearly spent. But the trees were near now, and thinking that as soon as she reached them, she would stop and rest, she ran with renewed vigor. 
               That, however, brought her journey to a sudden termination. A wet stone slipping, her ankle turned, and she fell down like a log, rendered quite as insensible for the time by the shock of the fall, and the sharp pain in her ankle. 
               It was a blessed oblivion that kept her from knowing of the rest of the storm, as it beat in wild fury around her, while the thunder rolled heavily in the air, and the lightning flashed rapidly. When she came to herself, its violence was abating and a soft rain was falling in her face, as she lay on the ground. 
               Not at all comprehending the situation, she tried to rise, but found it quite impossible; then gradually she remembered her fall. 
               She wondered what would become of her. Would she lie there all night, or until she died? or would they miss her at the house and send to look for her? It was a hard question for her to decide, whether she would rather be left there, or found by the family she had left; but as the pain in her ankle grew worse and worse, she was fain to confess that she would be glad to be discovered even by them. 
               Several times she found unconsciousness creeping over her, and thinking if any one passed she might lose an opportunity of being saved, she struggled against it, keeping in a state of semi-consciousness that was doubly unpleasant, for her mind was filled with all sort of wild fancies that exaggerated the physical pain. 
               Once or twice, losing herself, she was roused by some coming rescue, as she supposed, but which turned out to be only a falling bough, or the wind in the trees. 
               At last there came that unmistakable, sharp ring of a horse's hoofs on the road, and she felt that at last help was coming. 
               Nearer and nearer came the sound of the hoofs, and it seemed the sweetest music she had ever heard. A single horse and light carriage, she fancied, from the sound, and wondered if she were lying in the middle of the road so that she would be run over. Would he plant a hoof right on her head, and crush it into the mud, she wondered, with cool unconcern. It would be well if he would step on her ankle, and crush out all this pain. 
               The rider came nearer and nearer, and with the sense of approaching relief she ceased to feel the responsibility of herself. As the horse came up it shied. Its master spoke in reassuring tones, but still it refused to pass, so he got down from his carriage to see what was the obstacle to his peaceful passage. 
               Feeling that now she was found at last, and not caring at all at this stage by whom, she gave up all care and took refuge in insensibility again, as soon as the gentleman tried to move her. 
               "A woman here!" he exclaimed, in horror, "alone, and at this time of night!" 
               "I lost my way and fell," she said, and fainted from pain as he tried to lift her. 
               When she roused from the faint, she found that some one was holding her, and they were moving very quickly in a carriage, as she judged by the swift air in her face. She was trying to ask who it was that was so carefully trying to guard her from the jolting motion, when a sudden turn threw her hurt foot off of the seat on which it was propped up, and the agony again deprived her of consciousness. 
               The next she knew, she awoke in bed, inclined to regard it all, as she lay still and thought it over, as a bad dream, until she tried to turn over, and found she could not move; that, besides being stiff and sore all over, her foot and ankle pained her most violently, and seemed weighed down to the bed. That convinced her of the reality of her supposed dreams, and, wondering where she was, she glanced around her. 
               The room had rather a low ceiling, which gave it an air of coseyness. The windows were partly open, and she saw that the storm was over, and the stillness outside was as intense as the storm had been. Not an atom of air was stirring; there was no visible movement outside or in. On a table across the room a lamp was burning, and a porcelain shade over it shed a soft glow around, and kept the rays from her eyes. 
               Growing used to the subdued light, she presently began to distinguish the various objects in the room. Book-cases, pictures, and brackets hung on the walls. On the latter were statuettes, and vases from which hung long, trailing plants. 
               Books were lying on the tables, and the whole room had a thoroughly inhabited aspect. Indeed, in one corner, near a window, was a long, low, easy-chair, with a reading-desk attached, on which lay an open book. 
               But only signs of life were to be seen, and the stillness was so oppressive she began to imagine she was the sleeping, beauty, and had waked up a few years before her time. 
               The lamp burned steadily, without a flicker; even that would have been a comfort to her, as differing from the stillness of everything else. At last she groaned aloud, as much for company as because she was in pain, and had the pleasure of stirring up some life. 
               She heard a soft step on the floor in the next room, and a gentleman came in through the open door, and up to her bedside. 
               "Oh, you are awake," he said. "How do you feel? Are you in much pain?" 
               "Yes," she answered, "my foot pains me terribly, and all my right side. Are there any bones broken?" 
               "We cannot tell yet; the whole ankle is so very much swollen. It is wrapped in wet cloths, to take down the inflammation, and in the morning we will be able to tell. Do you want anything? Shall I call my mother? She is just in the next room, and only lay down about half an hour ago, when we thought you were sleeping." 
               "Who is your mother?" Daisy felt inclined to ask, but thought it might be justly followed by a return question, "Who are you?" and in her present state of mind, under these novel circumstances, she was not quite certain who she was, so she merely said:- 
               "No, do not call her, if she has just fallen asleep. I am sorry to have given so much trouble. Will you please give me a glass of water, my mouth and throat are so hot and dry?" 
                
               "The trouble you have given is not worth considering," he answered, as he put the glass of water to her lips, and raised the pillow on which her head lay, that she might drink. She took a long draught, and gave a sigh of relief that outweighed the involuntary groan she had given as he lifted her. 
               "Why, was it as bad as that?" he asked, and felt her pulse for a few moments. Then going to a little chest in the wall, that she had not noticed before, he poured something into a spoon he had, and came and held it to her lips. She swallowed it without a word, and, looking at his watch, he said:- 
               "I will give you some more in half an hour. Meanwhile, if you can, go to sleep. Try to, for it will quiet you. Do not hesitate to speak if you want anything. I shall stay in here to be at hand to give you your medicine." 
               Daisy looked very much distressed at the idea of giving a total stranger such trouble, and showed it so plainly that the words of regret she said were hardly needed. 
               "Oh, pray do not mind it," he said, "I shall feel safer to watch you, and keep down the fever. It is important that it should not rise." 
               "But you need not sit up," she said. "I will take the medicine every half hour." 
               He gave a little laugh, as he answered:- 
               "I would not like to think so badly of my medicine that I give you to be quieting, as I would have to, to trust you to take it at the proper times. Oh, no! my mother says I am in my element when I am giving medicine every half hour through the night; so you will not deny me that pleasure. Now, can I do anything more for you before you go to sleep?" 
               "Can I turn over on my side?" she asked. 
               "I would not if I were you," he answered, "as long as you can possibly keep in that position. It is very much better for your ankle, that it should lie in this way. It is quite worth the effort of standing it. Now try and sleep." 
               Feeling only about five years old, and compelled to obey, Daisy lay still, shut her eyes, and tried to go to sleep, according to order. 
               Opening them presently, to take a view of her surroundings, she found that the gentleman had taken the easy-chair, put the lamp on a table near by, placing an additional dark shade between her eyes and it, and was calmly reading in the open book. Seeing he took matters so easily, she thought she would not be troubled, so shut her eyes again and dozed, conscious once or twice that he put the spoon to her lips and she took what was in it and fell asleep again. 
               After a while, trying to turn over in her sleep, she woke herself with a shriek of pain as she gave her foot a violent twitch. She opened her eyes, to find the gentleman and his mother both Standing by the bed, anxiously watching her. 
               "What is it, poor child?" said the lady, bending over her, and stroking her hair, with soft, gentle touches. 
               "Oh, I tried to turn over, and it hurt me so horribly ribly," Daisy answered, catching her breath. "I must have been dreaming. What is the matter?" 
               "Don't you remember?" the lady answered, gently; "you hurt your foot, and it is all bound up. Perhaps some more cool water will make it feel better." She took up a pitcher and poured a little stream of water over the foot, which cooled the hot, swollen flesh. 
               "Thank you," said Daisy, with a grateful smile. "You are both very good to me. What time is it?" 
               "Nearly four." the lady answered. 
               "And I have kept you up all night. I am so sorry and ashamed to be so much trouble. I don't know what to say in excuse for it." 
               "It doesn't need any excuse, my dear child," the lady said, "and I don't see how you are to blame for it; it isn't your doing at all. Besides, I have slept about as much as usual, so don't let that trouble you; and my son is only too glad of any excuse for sitting up all night; so you have done him a favor. But don't talk any more, now; I see he thinks you should be quiet. I will arrange you more comfortably, and you'll go to sleep again." 
               She raised Daisy in her arms, while her son shook the pillows, and put them back. Then she gently laid her down again. Daisy repressed the groans that the least motion brought to her lips; for she knew the movement could not be accomplished more tenderly. As she straightened the cover around her face, Daisy kissed the kind hand that was making her more comfortable, and the tears sprung to her eyes. 
                
               "There, there!" said the lady, almost as if she were talking to a little child, "don't cry; all will be right in the morning. Go to sleep now." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               UNFORGIVING. 
                
                   
                     
                        "A little more than kin and less than kind."
                      
                     SHAKESPEARE. 
                   
                
               THE sun was high up in the heavens, before Daisy woke from the heavy sleep into which she had fallen about daybreak, after her restless, uneasy night. 
               If she had thought it a pleasant room in which she lay in the night time, she thought it doubly so by daylight. 
               The shutters were all closed, so that no ray off light came in, except what filtered through the green blinds, which made it cool and pleasant to the senses. The walls of the room, she saw, by daylight, were a soft gray, much more agreeable in tint than staring white. 
               What coloring was in the room was a harmonious shade of green, so that altogether the effect was very pleasing to her artistic eye, as she lay and watched it; and she was made to feel quite at home, by seeing, in a corner she had not noticed the night before, a statuette, three feet high, of her old friend and favorite, the Venus of Milo. 
               It was all that was needed to make this pleasant room quite perfect in her sight, when she saw on the table by her bed a little vase of lovely fresh flowers. There was a hand-bell by the vase, but she would not ring it, and destroy the first charm of finding herself in such a satisfactory place; it was all so like a story from the "Arabian Nights," which always had been such a favorite book with her, because so many unexpected things happened in it. 
               The genii of the place soon appeared on the threshold however, and, seeing her eyes open, called:- 
               "Mother, she's awake," and came in and felt her pulse. "She hardly has any fever," he said to his mother, as she came in, "which is wonderful, considering what she passed through last night. How do you feel?" 
               "Oh, so well, that I can get up and-" go home, she was going to say, when she remembered how and why she had left it, and felt that she could go there no more. 
               He laughed, and said:- 
               "I wouldn't advise you to try getting up, if you wish to continue feeling well. I think you will find that ankle making serious objections to anything but a horizontal position, for some time to come." 
               The look of dismay on her face was so great that the lady said:- 
               "We will let your friends know at once, and send for them to come to you. I have felt that, for their peace and happiness, we had put it off too long. They must have passed a wretched night. Our name is Lawrence. Dr. Owen Lawrence, and Mary, his mother." 
                
               "I have no friends nearer than New York city," Daisy said, with a crimson blush. 
               Dr. Lawrence raised his eyes to hers with a scrutinizing glance, that caused the crimson to turn into ashy white, and Mrs. Lawrence said, in surprise:- 
               "Why, my dear! how came you here, then?" 
               "That is," said Daisy, correcting herself, "none that I want to see, or to have know where I am." 
               The surprise on his face changed into a frown, and he turned away, as if to leave the room. 
               "I have done nothing wrong," said Daisy, in a piteous voice, as the tears gathered in her eyes. "Indeed I haven't." 
               "Owen," said his mother, "we mustn't fret our little patient into another fever after she has escaped the first. That honest look isn't in her eyes for nothing. She can make it all right, I know, strange as it may appear to us." 
               "Why, yes! it must seem strange to you," said Daisy, as if it had just struck her; but with the grieved look still on her lips. "You have been very good to have kept me so long without knowing who I am. I am obliged to you, and will tell you enough to show that it is not so strange." 
               The mixture of the grieved look of an injured child, and the dignified look of a woman wrongly suspected, were so united in her face that it was difficult to tell which was uppermost. 
               "Well, don't tell us now," said Mrs. Lawrence, kindly. "I know it is all right, and you must not excite yourself. Besides, you've had no breakfast, and here it comes. You must eat it before I let you speak another word." 
               A servant brought in a waiter, with a dainty little meal served on it, which Daisy eat, though she felt no hunger; she even went the lengths of eating a soft boiled egg, her pet aversion, because it was served up for her. 
               Dr. Lawrence left the room while she was eating, and as she had finished before he came back she commenced telling her story to his mother, and he, coming in quietly, took a seat out of sight, not to interrupt her. 
               She told about her young mother and father, their love and poverty and death; of their struggling through such adverse circumstances with brave hearts, only to sink under them at last, for want of a little timely succor. Then, passing silently over that period of her life, that, vague as it was, she could never bear to think of, she told them how her kind friends had adopted her, and brought her up as their child, under their name. 
               Then she told her how her adopted parents, fearing that for want of girl friends she would grow old before her time, had sent her to the Skinners, by invitation, for a visit; how there she had accidentally found out that they were her own relations; that the man whose roof she was under was the same who had driven her mother out into the world and let her die there,-her grandfather; and that they were enjoying the wealth-and she had been doing it too-that would have kept her own dear parents from dying of want. 
               "And when I found it out," she said, with flashing eyes, "I would not stay in his house another moment. I hated them all, and only wanted to get as far away from them as possible; and, knowing nothing else to do, I just ran from the house and from them all, and got lost, and so you found me." 
               And she looked at Dr. Lawrence, for he had risen and stood within her sight at the foot of the bed. 
               "Forgive me for having doubted you for a moment," he said. "I beg your pardon. But now we ought to let the Skinners know," he said, turning to his mother, "they will be very uneasy. And you walked and ran all the way from their house to where I found you?" he said to Daisy. "No wonder your poor little abused ankle was ready to break I only wonder that both of them didn't. 
               "You write a note, mother; I told Jake to have a horse saddled to go on an errand, little imagining he would have that far to go." He opened a writing-desk for her, and put pen and paper ready, then turned to Daisy. 
               "You must send them some word; what will it be?" 
               All the child was gone, and she looked every inch the indignant little woman. 
               "I told them before I left," she said, "who I was. I don't know whether they will want to see me or not; but whether they do or not, tell them I will not see or speak to one of them again. The memory of my dead mother is between us." 
               Dr. Lawrence was standing looking down at her as she delivered her fiery message. This child-woman greatly interested him, particularly since he had heard the story of her flight. As he watched the burning cheeks and fiery eyes, he said in a very low voice, that would only reach her ears:- 
               "'But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that despitefully use you,'" and laid his fingers warningly on her wrist, where the tell-tale pulse was beating rapidly. 
               She threw off his hand, not rudely, but decidedly, and said:- 
               "I know that, but I'm not going to act up to it. I can't love them,-it isn't possible! Will you please telegraph to my father, to come to me, and let me stay here until he can come for me, to-morrow?" 
               "Even if he can come for you to-morrow, my little friend, it will be some time before you can move from where you are,-weeks, perhaps months." 
               Daisy colored with vexation, and said:- 
               "Send for him at any rate; he will know what to do. Let me write the telegram." 
               He gave her a slip of paper, and she wrote:- 
               "I have broken my ankle and am at Dr. Lawrence's. Can you come up and see me? Don't be alarmed." 
               "And no other message for your grandfather and aunt, after the night of uneasiness they must have passed?" he asked. 
               Daisy shook her head decidedly, and, to make it conclusive, shut her eyes and lay still. 
               Glancing over his mother's shoulder, he saw that she had softened, as much as possible, the message sent, leaving it, however, emphatic enough to prevent their coming at once, he hoped, even if they wanted to; which was just as well, for they both thought that any more excitement would be very dangerous for her. 
               The note and message despatched, the doctor came back into the room, to examine the hurt ankle more carefully than he could do the night before, and if, as they had surmised, it was broken, to set it,-an operation which, owing to the swelling, had already been delayed too long. 
               When it was unbound, they found that the swelling had yielded to the remedies so well, that it was comparatively easy to ascertain the nature and extent of the breakage, a much worse one than they had supposed. 
               It couldn't wait to be set, he told her, when she asked, until her father came; and so she summoned all her resolution, and said she was ready for it to be done. 
               The little lips, that had just uttered such a hard sentence against her only known relatives, hardly opened or quivered as the broken bones were being set. The doctor, watching her anxiously to see how she would endure the operation, saw cheeks and lips blanch, and presently a drop or two of blood trickled from her lips, bitten to keep them shut; but no cry of pain escaped her, and when it was at length over, she lay very quiet, though so pale that it gave Mrs. Lawrence sufficient excuse for hovering about and keeping guard over her all day. 
               It was one of those hopelessly hot days that come in the country, when you feel that there is nothing to be done. You have that refuge in hot weather, the country air, and there is no other resource but patient endurance. 
               Stiff and sore from the exertion and the wetting she had received, and suffering extremely in her broken ankle, Daisy did not have the spirit to read, and lay there, like Mr. Micawber, "waiting for something to turn up." Mrs. Lawrence fanned her, fed her on ice, and did everything possible to relieve her; but the day dragged heavily. The noon-tide sun destroyed much of the lovely look that the room had had in the morning, and reduced her from a state of Arabian-Nightish bliss to the more ordinary level of a suffering girl, who felt as if the foundations of the earth had suddenly given away under her. 
               This unexpected discovery who her mother was, and finding herself in the very midst of all her relations, seemed to upset her views and ideas of things in general, and gave her an impression as if anything at all might happen next. She worked herself into such a state of dread lest her aunt and grandfather should come and insist upon taking her back with them, that when they did come over to see her, on receiving Mrs. Lawrence's note, Dr. Lawrence had to tell them that in the state she was in, he would not answer for the consequences if her wish about the matter was disobeyed. 
               So they had to leave without seeing her. Their feelings were more varied than hers. The news had been no less of a surprise to them, but they met it very differently. 
               The two girls to whom she had told whom she was, were so startled at the mine they had suddenly sprung under their feet, that they had been effectually subdued for the rest of the afternoon, and though frightened about Daisy, to whom the news was evidently as much news as it was to them, they waited for further developments before they spoke, feeling it entirely too awkward a thing to be done if it could possibly be avoided. 
               But when the storm came up and twilight came, inquiries were made as to where Daisy was; so they dared not keep the secret any longer, but told in fear and trembling. They might have saved themselves that, for the announcement created such a stir and commotion that the makers of it were quite forgotten, and as the night passed, and search was made, and no news came of her, the family grew more and more uneasy, fearing anything each time they heard from the girls of her white face and startled manner, and the way she had left the house. 
               And, as still no news came, they began to feel very tenderly towards the girl whose relationship had been at first too much of a shock to them to be mixed with pleasure. 
               To Mr. Norris it seemed a worse judgment than had yet come upon him, for his harsh treatment of his daughter so many years ago. He had grown strangely fond of this young girl, with her quiet, bright ways, that had in them an undefined reminiscence. He saw now of whom she reminded him; and with the softening effects of time, he wanted to see Daisy that he might ask her of that mother who had once been his favorite daughter. 
               When at last, after their wretched night, noon brought news of her safety, they were overjoyed, and, notwithstanding her refusal to see them, they started at once for Dr. Lawrence's, where they were met with the news that she was really too ill to be crossed in her decided wish to keep away from them. 
               When Dr. Lawrence, having seen them drive off with many polite excuses and assurances that he and his mother would do the best that could be done for their patient, came into the room where Daisy was, he found her with flushed cheeks and throbbing pulse, that made him say to her warningly:- 
               "Exercise self-command now, and don't fret yourself into a high fever. Prove yourself to be the same girl who had a badly broken ankle set this morning without a groan. I know you have gone through a violent mental strain, and that it is not yet over. But that is all the more reason why you should exercise self-command, for if you once let go, it will be hard for you to regain it. 'If thou faintest in the day of adversity, thy strength is small.'" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               CONVALESCENT. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Men must die,-one dies by day, and near him moans his mother, 
                           They dig his grave, tread it down, and go from it full loath; 
                           And one dies about the midnight, and the wind moans and no other, 
                           And the snow gives him a burial,-and God loves them both." 
                        
                      
                     JEAN INGELOW. 
                   
                
               IT was not until the next afternoon that Mr. Ward arrived at the Lawrences, and as soon as he had greeted Daisy and been introduced to her new friends he said:- 
               "The idea of such a thing happening to you, Daisy! I should much sooner have expected it of your mother." 
               "Something must happen to every one," she answered, with a laugh, the first she had had since she heard her mother's story so carelessly related. "And it might have been worse; I could have broken my neck." 
               "How came you to do it? You know I have heard nothing but the the bare fact from your graphic dispatch, to which Dr. Lawrence was kind enough to add directions for reaching his house." 
               "Why, yes; I forgot to do that," Daisy answered, and then began to tell her story, at which the Lawrences rences, thinking the two would rather be alone, made some excuses for leaving the room. 
               Daisy told her tale, which her father heard in utter amazement. When she was done he said:- 
               "It is my fault, my dear child, that you were exposed to this. When you first came to us I should, I suppose, have made inquiries till I found out who your mother was; but I fancied that people who could do such a brutal act, as her family had done, were not worth finding, and now you are suffering from it in this, remarkable way. But they seem very nice, pleasant people." 
               Daisy gave a shudder of dislike, and said:- 
               "I hate them all." 
               "That savors a little too much of the family spirit, that caused so much trouble, for me to quite approve of it coming from your lips, Daisy." 
               "I can't help it, father. Only think of their having all that money, and my dear little mother dying of want. How can I feel any other way towards them?" 
               "Does your feeling that way make matters any better? Do any good whatever?" 
               "No; I don't suppose it does." 
               "Would it not be better, then, to cultivate a state of feeling that would do good?" 
               "I cannot," came the answer, low, but decidedly. 
               Mr. Ward said nothing more for a few moments, then asked:- 
               "What did the Skinners do after they found it out? What did they say?" 
                
               "They did not know where I was until the next noon. Then they came over here, all full of sweet words, and wanted to see me, and I would not see them. No sweet words to me could bring my mother and father back to life; and their kindness to me only made their neglect of her more bitter." 
               "Perhaps they have repented deeply for what they did to her, and want to atone for it by double love to you." 
               "They cannot atone! No, father," she added, as he was about to speak again, "there is no use saying anything. I cannot feel differently about it, and I am not going to try. Even if I could forgive them for everything else, I could not forgive them for my having been a poor little street beggar! You don't know how that stings me. I will never get over it!" 
               "Though that is rather natural, Daisy, it is a more morbid, a weaker feeling than I should have expected of you. You are too old for me to say you must or you mustn't, so I can only hope that your own good sense and Christian feeling will show you a better course than the one you have chosen. I don't want to be disappointed in my Daisy." 
               "I believe," she answered, looking a little ashamed, "that since I have known this wretched affair I have lost all Christian feeling. It does not seem to have any hold upon me." 
               "Granting, as I do, my dear child, that the circumstances are particularly trying and hard to bear, how do you improve them by a spirit opposed to the teachings ings of the whole Bible, that says, 'Love your enemies, do good to them which despitefully use you'?" 
               "I don't improve them; I just take them and act in the only way I can now." 
               "You won't be happy while you feel so, my little girl. But we will not talk any more about it now; for your face is flushed, and your doctor would tell me I mustn't talk you into a fever. He tells me you cannot be moved for at least six weeks. Will you be content to stay here?" 
               "Yes, sir; I expect so. What troubles me is imposing such a task on strangers. That is bad." 
               "Yes, that is bad; but, as it happens, we cannot help it now, and both your kind host and hostess seem very glad to have you, say it makes quite a pleasant variety in their quiet life, and beg we will not be disturbed at all, but consider it a visit more pleasant to them than to you." 
               Daisy had such a restless, feverish night after the talk with her father, that he did not dare to venture on any more exciting conversation the few days he was able to stay with her. 
               Without mentioning it to her, he rode over to the Skinners, feeling that some apology was needed for the whole affair. Without going very deeply into particulars, he told them enough of Daisy's history to explain how such an unfortunate accident had happened. When Mr. Norris and Mrs. Skinner hoped that she soon would be persuaded to change her mind, and meet them as her only relations, he told them that he could not say whether she would or not; bearing in mind what she had to remember, they must not expect too much of her. 
               And in that unsatisfactory state he had to leave affairs, when it was time for him to go home again. Her last remark, after messages to her mother and the boy, was a petition that she might have some clay and her scrapers sent up to her. Mr. Ward said she should have them if the doctor would give his consent, and then whispered, as consolation for his going away, that he thought her mother was much more reconciled to the idea of her being an artist than she had been. 
               The clay came, some time before its impatient owner was pronounced in a condition to use it. It was in vain she told them that when she once got to work on that, she would not be half the trouble she was; they were obdurate, telling her that they preferred the trouble of taking care of her. 
               No one could have been kinder than these two friends were; nothing seemed too much for them to do for her; and every possible amusement was planned and executed that the time might not hang too heavily on her hands. 
               At last, after much persuasion. Dr. Lawrence gave his consent to her attempting some clay-work. As it was not safe for her to leave the bed yet, he constructed an easel for her that rested on the bed over her, so it could be brought near to her eyes, or far from them, as suited her pleasure. Attached to it he made supports for her arms, so she would not have the fatigue of holding them up; and when she was propped up in the bed with pillows, she could work with comparative ease. 
                
               She thought that she would only try a medallion, as the circumstances were unfavorable for any larger piece of work. 
               Mrs. Lawrence, anxious to do her part, finding out what she liked to make medallions on, searched up in the garret, and found a flat pine picture-frame, with a glass in it, on which to put the clay. Daisy had found that glass was much better to model on than wood, for it did not warp, as wood always would do, or absorb the moisture from the clay. 
               Before putting the clay on the glass, she drew on paper a rough outline likeness of Dr. Lawrence, whose portrait she was going to make for his mother. She found it a very great convenience to have such a drawing between the glass and the supporting board, as it kept her more easily within bounds. She only put the clay over the space covered by the outline, finding that the glass made a much better background than the clay did, as the outlines were clearer, and a cast taken from it much smoother. She had tried one with a clay background, and after having a great deal of trouble had finally made a botch of it, as the face and ground would get hopelessly mixed; and would not keep a straight line of separation. 
               In making the drawing she was more particular to have it correct in proportions of lengths and breadths than in expression or absolute lines; for the latter were apt to be lost under the clay, but the former she carried out, to the end of the paper, by straight lines marked, "line of hair; dividing line of lips," etc., so that they were before her all the time, and she was not so likely to let one feature encroach on another's province. 
               Drawing the picture, and getting the clay into shape, for she always made it, first merely a face, then turned it into the individual face, occupied her all the morning; and when she had done, it left her with such flushed cheeks and trembling hands, that the doctor was very grave, and said he should veto the work if she grew so excited over it. 
               She acknowledged herself very tired when evening came, and was glad to lie down quietly on the bed, not joining much in the conversation. 
               The next day they kept watch over her better, and only let her work a little while, and then rest before she worked any more. 
               She was very much troubled to find how weak she was, and how little she could endure; and became so depressed by it, that Mrs. Lawrence threatened to telegraph for her father, mother, and the baby to come and cheer her up. 
               All this time her relations had been a tabooed subject of conversation. They frequently sent over to inquire for her, and came; but she would never see them. They sent baskets of fruit and flowers, that would stay in her room utterly unheeded by her, until the servant would take them out. 
               One very hot day Mr. Norris sent to her a basket of exquisite peaches and grapes, that were a treat to look at. They were placed on a table by her bed, and Dr. Lawrence, who was giving her a sitting, took a bunch of grapes from the basket, and, eating a few, turned to Daisy and said,-handing her a bunch in the most matter-of-fact way, as if prudence was the only thing that kept her from taking them:- 
               "You can eat some; I do not think they will hurt you at all." 
               She looked up at him very indignantly, and said:- 
               "You know nothing would induce me to eat one. They would choke me." 
               "Didn't you eat anything while you were staying in their house?" 
               An aggravated silence. 
               "You do not appear to have been badly choked by what you eat when there. Has there been any fundamental change in your throat, that you can't swallow mercies from the same source? Try one; grapes are very easy to swallow." 
               Daisy looked at him a few moments in surprise. This was altogether such a new course of proceeding with him, that she did not know what to make of it. At last she said:- 
               "I think it is very unkind and disagreeable in you to try and tease me about such a sore subject. I did not think you would do it." 
               "Suppose I say that I think it is very disagreeable and unkind in you to act as you do to your kind, attentive relations?" 
               "I don't want them to be my relations; and as we neither of us would have had it so if we could have helped it, I think the whole thing had best be ignored." 
                
               "They are your relations, whether you want it so or not; and, what is more, they are a great deal better to you than you deserve." 
               Daisy was absolutely so surprised at Dr. Lawrence's speaking in this way, that she dropped the scraper into his clay eye, which quite put it out (not making her own any better thereby), and stared at him. 
               "And," he continued, "even allowing that neither of you would have had it so if you could have helped it, they are behaving in very much the wisest, most graceful manner,-making the best of it now it is done." 
               "What makes you say all this?" she asked. 
               "Because I think it is time something was done about it. You have had time to get over the first natural indignation, and now should be coming to a more Christlike frame of mind. I think we have seen enough of each other for me to be able to say this to you,"-Daisy's face did not quite give consent to that,-"and though you may not thank me for it now, as I suppose you don't, judging by your expression, I believe you will some time." 
               Daisy looked so very doubtful of that, that he could not help laughing, as he said:- 
               "You need not try to beguile me out of speaking by that excessively indignant countenance. I have restrained myself long enough, and now 'I am going to have it out,' as boys elegantly remark; for a young lady, who is well enough to model, is also, I should think, well enough to forgive her enemies." 
               "They are not my enemies," Daisy said, shaking her head. 
                
               "What are they?-your friends?" 
               Another shake of the head, more decided than the first, convicted her in her own eyes as well as in Dr. Lawrence's. 
               "Well, whichever they are," he said, "it amounts to the same thing. If they are friends, you love them; if enemies, you ought to love them. Looking at this in the most commonplace view, what possible good can you do by this course you are pursuing?" 
               "I don't suppose it does any good, but to relieve me." 
               "Do you think how much harm it is doing? It would be only natural that it should chill their hearts against you, and make them think more hardly and badly of the parents you want to vindicate. It is having a very bad effect on you, also. Every time you give way to a wrong feeling, you make it easier to do next time. This is hardening you, and familiarizing you with uncharitable feelings, so that if you should want to love and be charitable, it will be much more difficult than it was before, until, if you go on so, you will finally forget how to feel kindly." 
               Daisy had put down her work, and seemed to be thinking, though she made no answer to his words. 
               "It does not seem to me, taking even a superficial view, worthy of you; not the kind of spirit I should have expected of you. Now think well,-isn't there something of the would-be-martyr about it,-a feeling that you are acting rather grandly and nobly?" 
               The color flashed in her cheeks, and she looked up at him. But there was a kind, earnest look in his eyes, with which she could not get angry, even though his words were rather hard to bear. She bent down her head and thought deeply for a few minutes, then, without lifting it, said, in a low voice:- 
               "I am afraid you are right: but I had not suspected it before. I thought I was only doing what I owed to my injured parents, to honor their memories." 
               "What course do you suppose they would want you to pursue? How would your mother, of whom you are so fond, want you to act towards her father? Put it in that way." 
               There was another long pause, during which he waited patiently, and which at last was broken by her saying:- 
               "Differently from the way I am acting, I suppose; but you don't know how hard it is, how it seems a relief to my feelings to have nothing to do with him. I am afraid I can never forgive him." 
               "What! not when you utter that awful petition,-'Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us'? Is that the way you want your sins to be forgiven?" 
               "No, no," said Daisy, with a little shudder; "I did not think it was quite as bad as that." 
               "It is; these are our Saviour's own words:- 
               "'Judge not, that ye be not judged: for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured unto you again.' 
               "That is a fearful sentence to have passed upon you; to be in a manner your own judge and jury. Now see what is the noble way to behave. Christ says:- 
                
               "'For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? for sinners also love those that love them. 
               "'And if ye do good to them that do good to you, what thanks have ye? for sinners also do even the same. 
               "'But love ye your enemies:'-that is imitating the way our Saviour did, and the nearer our lives come to his, the happier we will be." 
               Daisy was lying with her eyes shut, and he said no more just then, but, putting away the modelling easel, left her alone. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               AT WORK AGAIN. 
                
                  
                      
                        "And as the soul, 
                        Which grows within a child, makes the child grow, 
                        So life, in deepening with me, deepened all 
                        The course I took, the work I did." 
                     
                   
                
               THE medallion progressed with the usual amount of successes and discouragements. Some days Daisy would declare that there was no use going on with it; that she could not catch the lines of likeness, and might as well give up sculpture as she had not enough talent to make it worth her while to go on. 
               Then, when the lowest ebb of discouragement had been reached, the reaction would come; everything would be so clearly before her eyes, that her clay seemed almost to take shape itself, and sculpture would be what it is to all who have the true love for it,-a work to go through fire and water for. 
               She gained strength so rapidly, that she was soon able to be partly dressed every day, and sit up in the easy-chair she had noticed on the night of her arrival. It seemed expressly made for the purpose, for the long-continued seat held her broken leg out straight and firm, so that she was much more comfortable than when in bed. 
                
               Every morning, after she was dressed, Dr. Lawrence and his mother would lift her from the bed to the chair, where she would remain all day, when she became tired sitting up, having it turned back so she could lie down. 
               She could model much more easily there than on the bed, and they would roll the chair to the window, which, opening down to the ground, gave her a lovely view of the lawn, the trees, and sky, and spurred her on to fresh work. 
               She was modelling there one morning, and the doctor was sitting in the window-seat playing with a small dog out on the grass, under the fond delusion incidental to sitters that he was giving her an admirable sitting, though it was an even tie, which, wanting a pure profile, she saw most of, the top of his head or the back; and the gentle reminder, "A little more this way, please, Dr. Lawrence," would cause him to present a full face, or at least three quarters. 
               She worked on very busily, for she wanted to cast it that day, and was making the most of that time so precious to sculptors, the last hours before casting. 
               The dog, having an instinctive appreciation of the needs of the case, at length grew tired of playing, and composed himself for a morning nap, and the doctor, saying, "Why, here I am giving you the back of my head! How careless!" turned around and presented his full face, under the impression that he was bettering matters, and watched her fingers while they deftly worked. 
                
               "Why is it you work so much more rapidly sometimes than you do at others?" he asked. 
               "I see better, more clearly. I am not merely experimenting, feeling for an expression, but working right to the point, knowing what I want and having something of an idea how to get it." 
               "Then you don't always know?" 
               "No, indeed, I sometimes work as blindly as possible, see nothing, know nothing. Then, of course, I do not accomplish much. What we beginners all need in drawing and painting, as well as sculpture, is a quicker perception of what lines make what we are trying to copy. We don't get clear ideas of the principal masses, and are as likely as not to spend most of our time over parts that do not tell at all." 
               "How do you propose to remedy that?" 
               "By being more careful students of nature. And when we copy, doing it accurately; not slurring over our work. I suppose that the real way to be a fine, true artist is to study nature constantly and carefully, not with a coarse, calculating eye, to see what we can get out of her, but with an appreciative, sympathizing heart, that by entering into communion with her we can learn what she can teach." 
               "Yes, no other teacher can give you such ideas in regard to beautiful effects. The distant, hazy mountains, the deep heart of woods, the wonderful colors of sky and water,-all these are better taught by nature, whose they are, than by any other. 
               "Yet, I believe very often, in spite of the truth of that, you do not come to nature, until you have tried the noble art of invention, and found that you could not make a tree quite as well as nature could; then you are willing to come to her for help. And how clearly she does put things if you will only open your eyes to see them! How every line of hers is just to the point, and tells in its whole force, nothing superfluous! 
               "You remember how Longfellow, in his poem to Agassiz, speaks of her story-book, and of her taking the child on her knee, and teaching him from it?" 
               "Yes, I remember. It seems to me that the people who study from her, in any form whatever,-art, geology, astronomy, anything,-ought to be the best people; that she would bring them closer to God, make them love and reverence him more for his wonderful works that she shows." 
               "And yet you do not find it so. Very often, to our shame be it said, our men who study her most closely reject God altogether, or give him a worship that, not being what he commands, is as bad as none at all." 
               "I know that, and it always seems so strange to me. I should think it would be the other way. My art makes me more thankful to him than anything else. When I have it in its truest, because purest, form, it seems to be a constant altar of incense. Every exquisite thing I see, I feel thankful for; doubly so when, as its beauty strikes me, comes the consciousness of power to copy it. Often I feel with every stroke of my pencil, every touch of my clay, such an overwhelming sense of thankfulness to him for giving me my art, that nothing can express it." 
               "I know the feeling; I have it also; and I sometimes think that is one of the chief missions of these beautiful things; and that the heart and mind that does not take them in that way will gradually lose the appreciation of them." 
               "What are you doing with that hair-pin?" he asked presently, as he saw her use one on the clay. "That is certainly a peculiar weapon for sculpture." 
               "I find it more useful than any other tool for making hair," she answered, with a laugh. "It may be because it is used to associating with hair; but this round end is the best thing for getting those broad shallow strokes that are necessary to represent hair well in statuary. Then when I want to make deep places in the hair the pin goes in so nicely, and makes a softly rounded mark, or a sharp one, just as I wish. With a hair-pin, your finger, a brush and water, you have hair at your disposal. Though it is also necessary in the first stages of massing and shaping it out to have your clay so soft that it moves with the greatest readiness to your fingers, then you can twist and turn it, and it suggests hair much quicker than when the clay is hard and you cut it out with the scraper." 
               "What do you use the brush for? It is quite barberesque, making hair with a brush and hair-pin." 
               "I use the brush to smooth it and keep the lines from being too strong and decided. A short paint-brush is the best. After I have finished the hair, I wet the brush and go over it, softening the lines, merging them, and altogether keeping it from being edgey. Then I very often use a fine camel's hair-brush to smooth certain places that are hard to get at with the fingers, around the nose, about the eye and ear, and the opening of the lips. Broad places I find I can make as smooth by rubbing them rather softly with my wet finger, after taking down the unevennesses with my fine scraper. It saves a great deal of trouble to make it right in that respect in the clay, for there are little places that you can easily finish with the brush in clay, that in the plaster are almost impossible to get to." 
               "Look at that crack by the nose." 
               "Yes, it is very apt to crack there; I am hardened to that. You see when I am finishing up, if I let the clay become pretty dry, I can put on so many fine little touches that it will not take otherwise. But then I have to be careful in watching it. for it will crack in these thin places, where it is thick all around, by the nostril, and in front of the eye. But a little water dropped on the crack soon heals it without destroying the general effect of dryness. 
               "There now," she added, "I suppose it is done. I have to make believe that it is, for left to myself I suppose I never would feel that I could work no more on a thing." 
               "Now for that trying ordeal of casting," Lawrence, springing up from his lazy seat in the window. "I must call mother to help us." 
                
               Mrs. Lawrence came, bringing the plaster, dishes, and spoons. 
               "Now what comes first?" she asked. 
               "Fill that pan half full of water," Daisy said, "and then sprinkle some of this yellow ochre powder in it, that the plaster of the mould may be a different color from the cast, so it will be easier to tell where one ends and the other begins. Now scatter in the plaster this way," and she took up a handful and sifted it through her fingers; "this keeps it from settling down into hard lumps that do not set as soon as the other. There, that is a plenty, I think; if you make it too thick it does not pour easily, and won't take a good mould, won't run into all. the hollows. Now you stir it for me a few moments while I fix this clay here. Stir it evenly all through; don't let one part be thick and another thin. Do not do it too fast, that makes it set too rapidly." 
               "How long must I stir it?" asked Mrs. Lawrence. 
               "Until it is about the consistency of cream, or custard," Daisy answered, and went on arranging thin ribbons of clay all around the medallion to keep the plaster within the bounds she wanted it in. 
               "Daisy," said Mrs. Lawrence, presently, after a vigorous course of stirring, "isn't this thick enough?" 
               Daisy looked at it, and said, in consternation, "Oh, dear, yes; too thick I'm afraid, pour it on quick!" and as Mrs. Lawrence turned up the china bowl, she went into it in most reckless style; scraping it out with both hands and putting it over the clay. When at last it was all on, and the whole surface covered, she paused and took breath, a luxury dispensed with by amateurs, "in articulo" casting. 
               "Now, please give me that tumbler with the clay in it," she said; and taking it, commenced to paint the whole upper surface of the plaster with thick clay-water, as soon as it was sufficiently hard. 
               "What is that for?" asked Mrs. Lawrence. 
               "So that the second coating of the mould will separate easily from the first, when I crack it off. The clay-water keeps them from adhering. Now," she said, as she finished, "it is ready for some more plaster;" and they mixed up more, the same way, and poured it on. 
               As soon it was set, and hard, in about twenty minutes, Daisy began to take it off the clay. The first step was to pour water all over the plaster mould, until it was soaked; then she gently pried a small chisel between the plaster and the glass. The mould moved a little. Taking advantage of the slight opening she poured in water, which permeated between the two. Then she put in the chisel on the other side, and poured in more water; and at last lifted up the mould entirely from the glass and clay. 
               It was stained with the clay, so with the soft brush and water she washed it all out till it was clean. In doing that, she discovered that the mould was what casters call "rotten;" that is, the plaster was not hard and firm, but crumbly, and threatened to break to pieces as she touched it. 
               She was in great distress; for as she supposed this was a perfect mould, that she had taken it off rather carelessly, and in so doing had broken off the eyelashes, nose, and ear from the clay, and it would be very trouble-some to restore it; though where she wanted several copies of a bas relief, she had, by finishing up all these little breakages again after each mould, taken three or four. 
               Suddenly she remembered having heard that saturating plaster with a solution of alum-water would make it hard, and determined to try and save this mould in that way. The doctor had a large bundle of powdered alum in the house, so in a few minutes they had made a strong solution of it, and were pouring it on the unfortunate mould. Then they had to put it away and wait till it was drier. 
               "Owen," suggested Mrs. Lawrence, "suppose we move Daisy's chair out on the lawn, until some of this woeful dirt we have made, be cleaned up." 
               "The servants at home always look wretched," Daisy said, with a laugh, "whenever I commence to cast. They know what is before them, and that I am to be tracked from garret to cellar by white foot and finger prints. But they bear it like martyrs, and never complain." 
               "Oh, how delightful!" she exclaimed, as she was borne out on the lawn, her chair brought after her. "Do put me down there under those trees by the road, so I can see the house. How queer to have been in a house so long, and have no idea of the outside of it!" she said, as they arranged her comfortably in her chair, and she looked back. "Why, what a lively little house! what a little nest of a place, all covered with vines, and those magnificent trees behind it! What possessed you," she said, turning to Dr. Lawrence, who stood near watching her, "to give me such an impossible statement of the looks of the house, when I innocently asked you? Where are your battlemented turrets, your loop-holes, the stately feudal castle you described to me? Aren't you ashamed of yourself, to have taken me in so?" 
               There was a very merry twinkle in the doctor's eyes. 
               "There are my turrets and loop-holes. Don't you see?" 
               He pointed to some diminutive chimneys peeping up out of the mass of Virginia creeper, which partly covered the gray slate roof with its brilliant flowers and green leaves. 
               "The loop-holes are not large enough for you to get out of, after having told me such stories," Daisy said, shaking her head. "'I'll tell my ma on you.'" 
               "You can't see them properly," he answered, "because you are so very elevated in your own opinion at having so soon escaped my medical hands, and recovered sufficently to be out of doors. Remember, 'pride cometh before a fal', and you'll break your other ankle. I insist upon it, that we see before us a feudal castle lie." 
               "It is much more like a fairy castle," Daisy answered, and was going on, when their attention was arrested by the sound of horses' hoofs galloping up the avenue. 
               They both looked towards the sound, and saw Fanny Skinner coming up separate on horseback, at a slower rate, now she was in sight, followed at some distance by the groom. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               CHARITY 
                
                  
                      
                        "Oh, the judgment seat was not for thee, 
                        The servants were not thine, 
                        And the eyes that fix the praise or blame, 
                        See farther than thine or mine." 
                     
                   
                
               DAISY gave a great start, as she saw her cousin coming right towards her, and said:- 
               "Please take me in." 
               "I can't, alone," he answered, coolly. "I told you it was a feudal castle, scene of the martyrdom of Saint Daisy, who was consumed by the affection of her relatives." 
               It was rather a risky plan to try, under the circumstances, but they were urgent, and admitted of no meditation. He had tried persuasion and reasoning, and failed; now he tried ridicule. He was desperate, and thought affairs could not be worse, and violent means might make them better. 
               He was successful in so much that she shot a very indignant glance at him, and her lip curled, as she said, "That is very generous, when I am helpless, and in your power," and turned her head away from him,-all she could do, confined to her seat. 
               He thought that rather helped matters, as it kept her looking directly towards her cousin, who, quite near, looked most painfully embarrassed. Daisy also looked, in spite of her anger, so perplexed and distressed, that he felt that it was an awkward predicament for all. 
               To occupy time, and give a little more space for the collecting of scattered brains, he went up to Fanny, and not attempting any violent joy at seeing her, made some remarks about her ride, not requiring any answer, expatiated on its being the first time that Daisy had been out of her room, why she was turned out, and how she enjoyed it. Then, feeling that the time had come indeed, helped her off her horse, threw the reins to the groom, and led her up to Daisy. 
               He knew that at that moment she wished them both in the South Sea Islands, and herself, probably, at the North Pole. He drew a little back of Fanny, and looked straight at Daisy. She raised her eyes for a moment, and returned his gaze; then looked away, and, turning paler,-the only sign she gave,-following her usual manner, of doing what she did heartily, said, holding out her hand, "How are you, Fanny? Excuse my not rising; I am a prisoner;" and drew her down and kissed her. 
               Dr. Lawrence breathed freely, for he felt sure that, as she had been capable of that, the rest of the ordeal would be easy. Fanny, coming to the rescue, wanted to know how her foot was, and with her explanations, elucidated by the doctor's, they kept up a most animated conversation. 
               When that subject was used up to shreds, Dr. Lawrence rence spoke of the medallion, and gave an animated description of the casting; told how Daisy ordered his mother and himself around during the operation, as if they were the veriest slaves; to which she plead guilty, but urged that, when casting was going on, you could not stand on ceremony, instantaneous movement was absolutely necessary. It would be permissible to hallo at Queen Victoria herself, if she was assisting you, and was deliberate in her movements, while plaster was setting; but that it meant nothing but hurry. 
               "By the way, Dr. Lawrence," she said, "I forgot. If you will have that mould put in the oven for an hour or so, we can tell whether it will answer." 
               "In the oven of the stove?" he asked. 
               "Yes; unless it is very hot, it won't hurt it, but will dry it more quickly. Then we can make the cast tomorrow. And please have the medallion, the clay one, either taken off of the glass or kept wet, for if it dries on there it will crack the glass all to pieces. I've lost several plates by carelessness in leaving the clay on them till it dried." 
               Daisy, absorbed in art for the moment, forgot that in sending off Dr. Lawrence to attend to her commissions, she left herself tte--tte with Fanny. She appreciated it before he had gone half-a-dozen rods, but it would be entirely too apparent to call him back. 
               It was very awkward for a few minutes to both the girls, and they stupidly looked at each other until the situation became too much for them, and they both commenced laughing. 
                
               "How very foolishly we are behaving, Fanny!" Daisy said. 
               "Yes, I rather think we are," was the answer. "As if our discovering we were own first cousins was any reason for our behaving as if we had never seen each other before, and never wanted to again. Come, let's be friends." 
               "I am glad to be friends with you, Fanny; but I must say I am not certain about going any farther." 
               "It is very unpleasant, I confess, Daisy; but then you don't gain anything by holding out. I have heard them talking of it at home,-I have kept my own counsel for I was afraid I would have done the same in your place,-but it makes me feel real sorry to see how troubled grandpa is at your refusing so persistently to see him. He is so different from what he used to be about anything. He talks about this being just what he deserves, and a just punishment for him, till it is really pitiful." 
               Fanny waited a moment for a reply, and, receiving none, went on:- 
               "Than he and mamma will talk by the hour of your mother, when she was your age, and find little points of resemblance between you, and they talk of how she did and talked when she was a child, and wonder if you did the same. You know my mother was in Europe when it all happened, and did not know it for ever so long afterwards. Then when she came home her father forbade her to do anything about it, even try and find something of Aunt Margaret, and I reckon mamma was afraid of him for she obeyed; and your mother never let them hear anything of her." 
               "No, I should think she did not!" Daisy answered. "I don't believe I can forgive your grandfather, Fanny; it seems worse and worse every time I think of it. But, hush, don't say any more; here come the Lawrences." 
               "And it is time I was going back home; they will be wondering what has become of me, and be uneasy. I am very glad to have seen you, Daisy, for I am very fond of you." 
               Mrs. Lawrence, coming up, invited Fanny most cordially to stay, but she declined; so the horses were sent for, and, mounting, she rode off. 
               They neither of them said anything about their visitor, waiting for Daisy to speak first. But the doctor suggested that it was time for her to go in-doors, as she had been out as long as was safe. 
               She was very quiet after she was taken back to her room, and lay for ever so long without speaking. She lay back in her chair and thought and thought; her ideas going round in a circle, and always coming back to the same place that they had started from. 
               Dr. Lawrence, coming in presently, saw her eyebrows drawn together and her forehead wrinkled, and said to her:- 
               "I wouldn't think any more now, if I were you; the day has been a fatiguing one for you anyway, and you look tired out. Stop thinking." 
               "How can I?" she asked. 
               "I will read to you; see if that will stop it;" and taking up a book that they were reading aloud, he went on with it. 
               Gradually her forehead cleared, all the tired look went out of her face, except the physical part, and she was quiet until the doctor put down the book. 
               "I am glad it was Fanny, instead of any of the others," she said, presently. 
               "Why are you?" he asked. 
               "Because she has so much more sense than the others have, and is a nicer girl altogether. The rest do surprise me with the way-being sensible girls-that they go on, and talk such awful nonsense. Not funny nonsense,-that I enjoy as much as any one,-but weak, wishy-washy inanities that are tiresome. 
               "Perhaps that is because you do not enter into the spirit of it." 
               "Spirit! why, there is no spirit. They say, (Oh, we had such a good time!' and you know it consisted of giggling interspersed with 'Oh, did he? Well, I never.' 'Yes, he did, he said so and so;' and that is the way they go on. The matter with them is that they have nothing to do but dress and flirt; they have no object in life, except to have a good time and get married. People want some solid, sensible work, to act as ballast, and keep their heads from getting light. Those girls worried me to death with their friskiness." 
               "Did it ever strike you that perhaps you worried them quite as much?" 
               "Why, no! it never did. How?" 
               "Perhaps your solemnity was as unaccountable to them as their friskiness was to you. You know, as Mrs. Partington says, 'It takes all sort of people to make the world,' and we ought to be very careful that we don't add in our heart, what she went on to say, 'I'm glad I'm not one of them! We all are 'one of them,' and I expect the light-headed ones are as necessary as the heavy-headed." 
               "How can that be? It is certainly better to have a steady good object in life, and to work right on towards it, than to live at random, only for enjoyment and having 'such a good time;' surely that is so." 
               "Perhaps it is, and if we think so, it is our duty to act up to that. But in this world, where everything is so nicely adjusted, we cannot regard anything as useless; each part helps to make the perfect whole. We may think, in the insect kingdom, that the butterfly is of no use compared to the bee; but we are by no means certain of that. Each must have its own peculiar use, and fill a place that the other could not, and that is necessary to be filled, or our wise Creator would not have allowed them to be. 
               "That seems to be the teaching of the Bible. St. Paul says:- 
               "For the body is not one member, but many. 
               "'If the foot shall say because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? 
               "'But now hath God set the members every one of them in the body as it hath pleased him. 
               "'And if all were one member, where were the body? 
               "'And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee; nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. 
               "'Nay, much more, those members of the body which seem to be more feeble, are necessary. 
               "'And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor. 
               "'For God hath tempered the body together. 
               "'That there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care one of another.' 
               "That is the same lesson that was given to St. Peter, by the vision,-to call nothing common that God hath made." 
               "But you certainly do not advocate leading an idle, aimless life?" Daisy asked. 
               "No, I do not. I believe in work as a great educator and purifier. I merely advocate applying the simple test of the Bible spirit to people who differ from us. I only propose that we should love our neighbor as ourselves. Unless we do, we are not living in His spirit, who redeemed us. Then there is another very important point to be considered. If we analyze the spirit of contemning others, we will generally find the groundwork of it is a subtle conceit; we are praising ourselves because we are different." 
               "Do you think so?" asked Daisy, surprised. "I had not thought that. It seemed to me to be because I knew it was better to work, putting my time to a good use." 
               "That is partly it, but consider now. Haven't you often thought, I make a much better use of my time than those girls; I am so much more value in the world, and am different and nicer than they are?" 
               "Yes," answered Daisy, after a moment's consideration; "I suppose I have thought that very often. But it never struck me how conceited it was." 
               "It seems to me, that people who are doing anything that the world considers praiseworthy and great, have double need to watch, and keep out conceit. It will work its way into the best people,-particularly into the workers, the ones who feel that, Atlas-like, they bear the world on their shoulders, and that without them everything will go to rack and ruin. I have seen that in people who were otherwise almost perfect. I think you women, who have started out and undertaken work that is unusual for your sex, are particularly liable to it, for you see those around you living such different lives, it is very rare that 'odious comparisons' are not drawn. I want you to be free from that. It is 'the trail of the serpent' that 'is over it all.' 
               "But here I am lecturing you, poor tired child, as if I were a D. D., instead of an M. D., when you are already worn out with a fatiguing day. Do forgive me the length of my harangue,-though I must say, I meant it all." 
               "There is nothing to forgive," Daisy answered, "and I am very much obliged to you for saying what you have. If I was enough of a child to need to be told, I think I am enough of a woman to try and profit by it." 
               The next morning, on examination, Daisy found that the alum-water had hardened the mould so much that she could easily cast it, and convening the family they went to work. 
               "What comes first, Daisy?" asked Mrs. Lawrence, first assistant caster. 
               "The mould must be soaked in water, until it will not absorb any more." 
               "What is that for?" asked the doctor, who did more questioning than anything else. 
               "To keep the fresh plaster from adhering to it. The way you piece, or mend, broken plaster is by wetting it a little bit, then putting on your freshly mixed, and the old absorbs some of the moisture from the new, and they adhere, that is, provided you haven't moved them a hair's breadth; the least move cracks the setting plaster. So when you want to take a cast and have it come out clean and free, you must wet the mould until it refuses any more; then you can safely pour in your fresh plaster. Some people cover the mould with clay-water, or soap it. but both these plans make dirty casts. The soaking is all that is necessary, if thoroughly done." 
               "But see 'these beads of perspiration on this massive brow,' as the poet would say,-what does that mean?" 
               "That he has soaked too long; we must wipe off the water, for if it is lying around loose in the mould it makes a bad cast." 
               "Now for the grand mix," he said, as Daisy and his mother commenced sifting the plaster lightly into the water. "Why don't one of you stir, while the other pours in? It would save time." 
                
               "You must not commence until all the plaster is in, or it will set at the bottom before it does at the top. It is likely enough to do that any way, unless it is evenly stirred. Wait, wait," she said, as he commenced to stir it; "don't do it as if you were beating eggs; that lets all the air in, which may be good for eggs, but isn't for plaster, for it makes air-bubbles, which ruin the cast. Stir soberly, from the bottom, being careful to stir all of it, so there won't be hard lumps." 
               "Owen," said his mother, who was as much excited as Daisy, "if you do not behave yourself and stop troubling us, I will send you away. What has put you into such a state of infantile spirits?" 
               Before he answered, it was time to pour the plaster into the mould, and the attention of all was absorbed until it was safely done. 
               "Now we will have to wait until it hardens," Daisy said. "Let's have recourse to the stove again, for if we try to crack it off with the mould hard and the cast soft, I am afraid the latter will break." 
               In the afternoon it was pronounced dry enough, and the trying operation of cracking out began. Daisy used a small chisel, and a wooden mallet, that being better for the purpose than an iron hammer. She cracked off the outer coating of the mould, easily enough, before an anxious and admiring audience, composed of Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence. 
               Then came the most trying task of cracking off the inner coating next to the face. That was very delicate work, requiring the greatest care that the chisel might not mar the cast. Little by little she chipped it off, resisting the blows of the mallet, that the chisel might spring up again, instead of sinking into the good plaster. That she had found from experience was the safest way. Presently a large piece coming off the end of the neck showed. Now she had her reckoning, she could work more surely, and soon she came to the chin and mouth. More carefully than ever she worked now, and the watchers were breathless as they saw the face gradually reappearing in its new form. 
               At last the whole face was free and had hardly a scratch from the chisel; but again Daisy discovered, to her consternation, that part of the plaster was so bad that it crumbled all to pieces in her hand, and the whole was soft. 
               "Oh, dear, that is too bad!" she said. "We will have to try the alum-water again; and I remember now the direction said the cast must be heated. Please put it in the oven again for a little while." 
               "I never saw plaster do so before," she said, while they were waiting for it to get hot. "I wonder what is the reason?" 
               "It was a damp, drizzly day that Jakes brought it from town. Do you suppose that could have anything to do with it?" 
               "Perhaps so. I believe it is not good if it has been exposed to dampness,-it partially slacks it; or perhaps it is too new, has not been air-slacked enough. Any way it is too bad." 
                
               The servant here brought in the cast so hot that Daisy had to keep it on the waiter. Taking up the glass of alum water, she poured a large spoonful over the hair; it hissed and sizzled, and she was horrified to see that it took all of the surface off and left it full of holes as large as a pin's point. She poured on some more, and the cast did the same. She did not know what to make of it at all, and they spent a few minutes in discussing it. Then thinking it was as well to have it all alike, she poured on the rest and was surprised to see the plaster quietly absorb it and remain as it was. 
               "Oh, what a goose I am!" she said. "Don't you see, it was too hot,-that is the reason it did so; and if I had only waited all would have been right. However, I can remedy this, I suppose, by rubbing it down with sand-paper; I always have to use that. But this was such an unnecessary mistake. I have learned though more by to-day's mistakes than I would have done by as many successes; so that is some comfort." 
               "Rub it with sand-paper, you say?" Mrs. Lawrence asked. 
               "Yes; that gets a nice, smooth surface, if you use the finest paper that comes. The coarse is very well to use when you want to take off a large quantity of plaster at once; but is not good for fine work, or wet plaster. 
               "The best thing, better even than sand-paper, is a kind of grass used for cleaning tine, called 'Dutch Grass;" it is round like a reed, and has a surface something like a file, and can be used in the same way. It is very useful ful to us, as it will go into the smallest corners, and make a smoother surface than anything else. I wish I had brought some with me." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               LOOKING BACKWARD AND FORWARD. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Art for art, 
                        And good for God himself, the essential Good! 
                        We'll keep our aims sublime, our eyes erect, 
                        Although our woman-hands should shako and fail; 
                        And if we fail But mast we?-" 
                     
                   
                
               TIME passed, and Daisy grew better and better, yet Dr. Lawrence was loth to say she was well, for that would be a signal for her departure; and she had been such a welcome inmate in their house, such a pleasant addition to their family, that the doctor and his mother hated to think of parting with her. 
               The dear old lady waxed eloquent on the subject of how they would miss "the child," how lonely and gloomy the house would be without her, after she had made it bright and pleasant so long. 
               But the cool autumn evenings were coming, and they could no longer sit on the portico, while the doctor told them long tales of his travels on the continent, and in the East; gave them descriptions, so vivid, that Daisy, shutting her eyes, could almost fancy she saw, instead of heard; while his mother told them stories of her girlhood, her beautiful home in the mountain district of England, before she had married and come over to America; and Daisy told them all that her quiet life held; of her art that was so dear to her; of her father's music that had always filled the place of art until she found the latter; of how her work, imperfect as it was, filled her with joy and pleasure, and seemed the purest, the most satisfying thing that life could hold. 
               At last, however, the fact could no longer be disguised,-she was well, and walked with perfect ease, except an occasional limp when tired. Her father and mother were writing for her, telling how lonely the house was without her, wanting her to come home as soon as she was able. There was really nothing to keep her any longer; so the day for her departure was set, her trunk packed, and then came the last evening before she left,-a time more or less sad; for even when you want any one to go, and-"alas for the rarity of Christian charity under the sun!"-you often do so want, there is sadness mixed with the joy. 
               Doubly sad is it when friends are parting, when the morrow will bring a vacancy in the place of the familiar form, a silence where sounded the pleasant voice, a feeling of emptiness and loss in the place of the pleasant companionship. Disguise it as we may by gayety and laughter, we carry a heavy heart under our smiles, and dread the morrow, bringing its miniature death. 
               "Well, what are you going to do with yourself this winter?" the doctor asked, as Daisy left the piano, where she had been playing to them in the twilight, and lay down on the sofa. 
               "Do?" she said. "Why, work like a Trojan. Now father and mother have at last given their consent to my desire to be an artist, I am going to give up all my time to it; take lessons from the best teacher I can obtain, and make up for lost time, all these years the question has been pending, by extra diligence now it is finally settled. Settled, that is, as far as others can settle it; for now comes the real tug of war,-the little conflict with success, whose battle-field is strewn with so many dead and wounded, and from whom so few snatch the victor's crown." 
               "Snatch?" 
               "No, that isn't correct. Those who snatch it, it seems to me, show a sense of their inefficiency. Those who feel the power in them can wait,-wait till they win it; content-true artists-to wait forever rather than lower art by claiming a success they do not deserve." 
               "Do you really believe that, or is it merely the theory?" 
               "I believe it. Whether the future will bring me what the world will call success, I know not. Indeed, it is very seldom that I ever think whether it will or not. When I am at my work the present brings me all I want. I can trust for the future. But I think that my real feeling on the subject is, that unless I can do work worthy of art, and that will raise the public standard, I do not wish to be counted a successful artist. I would rather have the failure mine, as being unable to interpret her secrets, than have it hers, as being shallow, and capable of interpretation by any one who chooses to attempt it, without having the true genius that makes a worthy exponent." 
                
               "Do all artists feel so, do you think?" 
               "I don't know, I have talked to so few. However, if they did, I should think it would put an end to all this wretched bickering that goes on among them, and they would be truly a brotherhood. I suppose it is because it is so apt to be the case that each is for himself, that there is so much jealousy and bad feeling among them. If they were true lovers of art, instead of lovers of their own selves, anything that advanced art, no matter by whom it was done, would be a delight to them. 
               "I do not always feel this. Sometimes I feel that I want success,-that nothing else will satisfy me." 
               "But you don't think ambition is wrong, do you?" 
               "No," Daisy answered, hesitatingly; "I think you must have ambition, or you will never do anything worthy. I expect the point is in the quality of it. We should have ambition, not for ourselves, but for our art, whatever it is. Not. to elevate ourselves in the public opinion, but to labor in a way that is worthy and good. That kind of ambition will not hurt any one. 
               "I never used to think much of that, but loved my work because I loved it; but lately I have paid more attention to it, as I worked harder, and thought more of being an artist; knowing the mental growth and discipline that would be necessary to make me a worthy one. 
               "It seems to me now, more necessary to be careful about motives; that even good work, done from poor, bad, or low ones, cannot succeed as when it is done from pure, good principles, and we ought not to expect it to. So I want to avoid any chance of loving my work and giving myself up to it, because it will make people value me, and think me clever." 
               "And you start out upon this life, without knowing whether you have the elements of success; with the possibility of failure at the end?" 
               "I have some elements of success, I know; a strong, overpowering love for it, 'greater than all tongues could utter;' a content and happiness coming from it more than from anything else; and a thorough determination to bend all my life and energies to accomplishing it, to serve untiringly. 
               "That is something. Don't you remember the Ladder of St. Augustine?- 
                      
                        "'We have not wings, we cannot soar; 
                        But we have feet to scale and climb 
                        By slow degrees, by more and more, 
                        The cloudy summits of our time. 
                     
                      
                        "'The heights by great men reached and kept 
                        Were not attained by sudden flight; 
                        But they, while their companions slept, 
                        Were toiling upward in the night.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "And all the many, many failures, the great number of 'dead and wounded' you spoke of just now, don't they deter you from undertaking it?" 
               "No, they urge me on, if anything. Then, I would rather fail in being a great artist,-have had the satisfaction of trying for it,-than succeed in many other things. It is in a smaller way, what is expressed in the line:- 
                     "'Better to serve in heaven, than reign in hell.'
                  
                
                
               "Better fail in trying to do a glorious thing than succeed in doing a poor one. Mind, I don't say this is the proper way to think; perhaps it isn't; I only say it is the way I feel, and the way I believe every true artist must feel, or he will not throw himself into his work with his whole soul." 
               "This is late in the day, I know, to ask you if you have weighed well all that such a life may bring you: the disappointments, which it cannot fail to bring; the possible impossibility of reaching what you strive after; the times (that will come) when you will feel that it was all a mistake your thinking you had any talent or capacity for such a life, and you will marvel what possesses you to spend all your hope and energy in pursuing such a fleeting shadow, wondering if it is anything more than a shadow. All of this will come. It comes to all, more particularly, I believe, to those who employ themselves, invocations that, being imaginative and not conducive to the feeding or clothing of the world, often seem, in material frames of mind, perfectly useless; for when discouraged, or disheartened, that more delicate, spiritual part of us is what gives way first." 
               "Yes," Daisy answered, thoughtfully, "I have tried to view it from all sides, the evil as well as the good, and I do not find that any view changes my purpose or feelings. I know it isn't an easy road, therefore all the more cause for a great deal of patience and hope. Many have failed; so that I must not be too well satisfied with any little success I may gain. We must work if we want to live a really satisfied, happy life, and all work has those same difficulties and hindrances to be overcome. 'Trust in God and keep your powder dry' is a saying for every one. If I do my work faithfully keeping his glory before me, depending on him for strength and courage to help me on, and for comfort to support me under failure, why, nothing can go far wrong. With real faith in God, we cannot be hopelessly cast down by anything he sends us. Do you think we can?" 
               "No, I do not. It is when we forget that the trial or trouble is of his sending, for some wise and regard it as merely a cruel fate or accident, that it crushes us to the ground. Believing that he sends everything, and remembering it, for we very often do the one without the other, we will find it easy to bear by leaning on him, any loss, any misfortune. One of the greatest examples of faith that we have given us is, 'I can do all things through Christ which strengthened me. Still, we owe it to ourselves and to our friends not to undertake anything without counting the costs. 'No man,' you know, "buildeth a house without first counting the cost.' There is also to be considered the fact that few artists are rich; it is a profession accompanied by great poverty, and usually its accompanying sufferings and privations. Have you thought of that?" 
               "Ah Dr. Lawrence," she said, very sadly, you forget what cause I have to remember that. There is little danger of my forgetting it while I live; it has had too much to do with the modelling of my life. It was in thinking of that, and what little I knew of my mother's er's life, that made me finally determine that, notwithstanding all opposition. I would persevere in my resolution, and learn to do something for myself, that I might not be utterly helpless, and dependent on others." 
               They were both silent for some time, and the only sound that was heard was the insect life out among the trees, and the sad notes of the whip-poor-will in the woods. 
               "You, who have a mother alive, and a father whom you can distinctly remember," Daisy said, presently, "you don't know, cannot imagine, how I yearn over my mother and father whom I cannot remember. My kind, good, adopted parents could not be better to me than they are,-as loving and tender as if I were truly their own flesh and blood. But I long for those two brave young hearts that had such a sore struggle with life, and were so sadly worsted,-'my pretty mamma,' as mother says I called her when I first came to them; but even then she says I did not seem to remember much of them, and that little time has effaced. I wonder what they said to each other, how they acted. I find myself imagining their daily lives,-papa painting, mamma sitting for him, I sometimes in her arms, Sometimes crawling about on the floor. Often, no doubt, the smile on her face, for papa's sake, kept back a bitter flood of tears; she was always bright before him, for, as what troubled her most was to see him so worn and harassed, she would not make it any worse by letting him see her suffer. Poor little mamma! and I was not old enough to help them in any way. That is so sad to me now. If I only could have made their lives a little easier in some way." 
               "You did, you must have done it," Dr. Lawrence answered, eagerly; "you must have been the greatest comfort to them. Everything we have to love is a help to us, a greater help than we know until we lose it." 
               "Not much help could I have been to them; I was another mouth to feed, another to provide for; and they could not know what a happy home God would give me. If they only had known it, how much easier they would have been. My dear father and mother, who will never grow old, and, thank God, never know care or sorrow any more now he has taken them to his kingdom. I do not know why, but I always imagine them little people, perhaps because I am not large myself. Mamma I know was small; but dear papa I do not know much of. He was an artist; I wonder if he felt as I do about it! How happy we would have been together if he had only lived! It would have been so beautiful, our both giving our lives to the same work. But he went and left me, and I have only his memory to work for." 
               "Perhaps your grandfather could tell you about, him," Dr. Lawrence ventured. "It is worth trying for." 
               "No," Daisy answered, "I do not think it is. I should not relish his ideas or descriptions of that bright young artist who won his daughter's heart, until she was willing to forsake father and mother and cleave unto him. I would not gain any pleasant comfort from it, and only be, if possible, farther separated from him." 
                
               "And you are going to leave this neighborhood without a reconciliation with him. I have been hoping, from day to day, that you would ask me to drive you over there. It is not too late yet; there will be plenty of time to-morrow to do it." 
               "That is the last drive I am likely to ask you to take me," Daisy said, in a different voice from that in which she had been speaking of her parents. "I do not want ever to see him. I cannot feel charitably to him in any light in which I put the matter, and until I do, I will not see him if I can help it." 
               "Ah, child, you won't 'love your enemies' until you are compelled to? You won't take this step of your own free will, but will wait until circumstances force you to do it? You will not be happy until you do. It will weigh on you heavily, unless you harden your heart to resist it, and the punishment may come that you will never forgive him. Think of that." 
               "I do think of it, but somehow it does not soften my heart. He has lived all these years in his wealth, without her pardon whom he so deeply injured. He can probably go on the same without mine. His hard-heartedness, his love of his position and money, robbed me of my father and mother and left me an orphan without even their memory. He still has his position and money; let them satisfy him; they can never give me back what I have lost through him. 
               "But don't let us talk of him any more, and spoil our last evening. It always makes me feel wicked to think of him, and I do not like to have him come into the same thoughts with my two dear ones. Wait a moment, and I will show you my only relic of them,-the dearest treasure I have,-except my name, which belonged to both of them." 
               She rose and left the room. Coming back presently, she brought the picture that was, as she had said, all she had from them. Many, many times she had gazed at the picture, feeling that it was the only connecting link between her past and present. 
               Thinking, as she watched it, that her father's hands had rested upon it, that his eyes had gazed on it, and very likely mournful tears fallen there, as he thought of the sad cause that had suggested the fantastic design to him, her own had fallen in sympathy. For she felt that she had changed so much, grown up and altered, that she was not at all the little child they had loved and petted; she had given up their name, and now the picture seemed all she had from them. 
               As they went out into the hall, where a light was burning, that they might see the picture, she told him the story of how it originated, and tears were in his eyes also as he bent over the golden head to look at the paper she held so tenderly, and thought how sad the two young lives had been. 
               It was a water-color sketch, dashed in boldly and rapidly in parts, but drawn with great nicety and German-like expressiveness, where it told the story. The air of trusting confidence on the mother's face, and the same on the little face, though coming in the latter from loving innocence, instead of loving faith, were enough to make the gardener look as wretched as he did, just preparing to transplant them. It was truly a picture that a child might cry over, feeling what a sorrowful story it told of her loved ones. 
               Slight as were the drawings, Dr. Lawrence felt that the faces were correct, for he could trace in them each, features in Daisy's face,-the bright yellow hair of her father that peeped out from under the cap-evidently an artist's-that he had placed on his head; the firm trusting mouth of her mother, that gave assurance of a hidden strength, and the eyes of each, as she was calm or sad. 
               "This is not all you have from them," he said, touching the picture; "you have a wonderful likeness to each, yet so combined that it is hard to tell which you are most like. That is a far more precious legacy, for it is one you cannot lose, and that combines the best in each." 
               "Oh, do you think so?" she asked, as they went back to the parlor. "I have often hoped and thought so, but was afraid to trust to my own feelings about it, lest I should be deceived by what I so much wished for. And I never much liked to ask father and mother about it, for I was always afraid they would think I was not satisfied or happy, and was longing for my own parents; they could not have been better to me, only they would have been my very own." 
               "I have asked their consent," she said, presently, "to taking back my own name. I was afraid they would feel hurt by it, and of course would not do it if they did. But they are as good to me about that, as about everything else. They say they are perfectly willing, and expected me to. Father says that they called me by their name, thinking it might save some unpleasant inquiries, and give them a better right to take care of me; but that they thought that when I was grown I would want to take my father's name again. My dear mother was just a little older than I am, when she first took it. Now, if I ever reach any fame in my art I will feel that it is helping my father's memory, and filling the place that his short life kept him from being able to fill. That will be a double incentive to me to work hard and well, that I may yet, even this far off, do something for him; and it will not be for myself I strive, but for Daisy Dodd, daughter of Frank Dodd, the artist." 
               "And, looking forward to this life of Daisy Dodd, the artist," asked the doctor, very earnestly, "does it satisfy you? Does it seem perfectly full and complete to you? Is there nothing more you can ask or want?" 
               "No," said Daisy, quietly, "nothing. A long life devoted to my art has always been my wildest, fullest dream. And now that it seems likely to be fulfilled, I only want, further, the continued love of my friends, and health and strength to work." 
               There was a silence in the room, broken at last by the doctor's rising, and lighting the candles. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               AN ARTIST AT LAST. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Sublimost danger, over which none weeps, 
                        When any young wayfaring soul goes forth 
                        Alone, unconscious of the perilous road, 
                        The day-sun dazzling in his limpid eyes, 
                        To thrust his own way, he an alien, through 
                        The world!" 
                     
                   
                
               YEARS pass rapidly when one is busily engaged in a beloved work, and to Daisy the time seemed very short that she spent as a regular orthodox art student, "with much promise," as her teacher said. 
               Such a vague, unsatisfactory commendation often, not carrying with it any assurance that the promise will ever ripen into performance; and yet the most that can be obtained from a cautious master who does not want to rashly induce barn-door fowls to attempt the flight of the eagle, and so keeps up a moderate degree of depression that the aspirant may not try to reach that higher atmosphere until quite certain it is that for which his lungs were fitted. 
               It is a good plan, and yet more encouragement would be a help, greater than the teacher knows, to the student, often mistaking the inevitable difficulties of the work for a lack of talent and ability. However, the true artist will not be easily turned back from his path, and discouragements are but the training necessary to strengthen him in it. He who cannot stand them, but retreats from the field vanquished, has not the true fire in him. 
               Daisy worked steadily and faithfully, with daily increasing love for her chosen path, and satisfaction in it. She often paused in wonderment, and tried to realize that she really was an art student, and would not wake up and find it one of those charming dreams that had so often deluded her; it seemed too delightful a thing to be really possible. 
               The summer after the one she spent at the Lawrences, Daisy, rather worn out by her hard winter's work, promised to pay them a long visit, on her way to Mrs. Ward's father, where the family were to spend the summer. 
               But a few days before they were to start, the boy was taken ill,-so ill, that the only thought in all their hearts for many weeks was to watch over him, fearful lest any minute should be his last. Work was deserted, the organ closed, and the only music heard in the house was when the boy, lying in the arms of Daisy,-to whom he was perfectly devoted,-would say:- 
               "Sister Daisy, please sing to me." 
               She would sing Mother Goose's melodies, hymns, songs, chants, anything and everything that came into her mind, not caring what it was, or how tired her throat became, so long as he lay quiet, and wore a calm face instead of the look of care and suffering, so sad to see in a child. 
                
               But the Father was good to them and did not take away their darling, but gradually gave him back his rosy cheeks, his merry laugh, and light footstep. 
               With his recovery Daisy went back to her sculpture, and spent another winter of hard work, and untiring study. 
               With the summer weather came the task, in which all the family joined with equal pleasure, of arranging a regular studio for Daisy at home. Off from the music room Mr. Ward had built an addition that was, designed for that purpose, and built with a skylight, and the delight of a sculptor's heart, plenty of water ready at hand; the floor was tessellated with maple and walnut, and the walls were painted that soft blue that throws the most beautiful lights and shadows on statuary. 
               That much was done when Daisy took possession, and entered upon that most delightful work, carrying out her long-dreamed-of ideas of what made a studio convenient. 
               One corner was occupied by a triangular box, that opened outwards, so that a shelf was made to rest her bowl on, while she put in the plaster; the box was divided into two parts to hold fine and coarse plaster. Above it were places for her various tools, hammer, saw, mallet, chisel, spoons, and spatulas, just where she could lay her hand on whatever she wanted in a hurry. 
               In another corner was her clay box, lined with zinc to prevent leakage, and keep in the moisture, so she could always keep soft clay. Between these two corners were the sink and water,-so that she called the heavy utility department, and curtained it off from the rest. 
                
               In the centre of the room was her working stand, which had many curious little contrivances upon it for the support of figures and coverings. From the ceiling was suspended a tent-shaped covering of enamel cloth, that by means of a pulley could be let down over the statue, or lifted up and flattened against the ceiling, doing away with the necessity of covering the clay with wet cloths,-a process always more or less destructive to the surface of the statue,-several wet sponges suspended inside of the air-tight awning supplying all the moisture that was needed. 
               Around the walls were hung casts taken from life, studies in plaster, drawings, and a smooth gray board for sketching in black and white. 
               Never had there been a nicer, more complete studio, Daisy thought, as, her arrangements all made, she commenced piling clay for her first statue done alone. 
               Taking warning by the illness of the boy the summer before, her first work was a life-sized statue of him asleep, as she fancied that would be the easiest position to catch the likeness in. But it was a character that did not meet his approval, for he was that identical weasel that was never caught asleep; and whenever she fancied that he was surely safe in the land of Nod he would open his eyes wider and brighter than ever for the temporary closing. 
               Poor Daisy had a trying time with him under that dispensation. Seeing him supine, she would creep softly up for a few moments' study, only to find him calmly winking at her through his half-closed eyelids, just waiting until she came near to jump up and run away. 
               Finding that strategy would not secure the wished-for end, she tried bribery and corruption. The boy, with all his father's and mother's passion for music, would consent to lie still in the position she wanted, while she sung for him; but the moment, eager with her work, she would forget the music, the quondam sleeping babe would be up, dancing an Indian war-dance around her, and crying, "Sing, sing, or I won't lie still a minute;" and the song would have to go on perforce that the work might. 
               It was at last finished however, and cast, and she went to other work. The boy was always around her, so he was a sitter easy to get, though not easy to keep, and she made medallions and busts of him until, turn where you would, if you did not see the child himself, in half-a-dozen places at once, you were certain to see half-a-dozen of him in some form or other. 
               These works were considered, in the family eye, far too precious for Daisy to venture to cast them herself; so the family purse was quite broken paying casters, who, as a race, have no consciences whatever, and charge at their own sweet will. 
               So time passed on, and there began to creep in upon Daisy "orders," that first decided opening of the bud of promise. The first one was a rare epoch in her life: a lady came to the studio and, seeing a medallion of her mother, Daisy had made, that struck her fancy particularly larly, asked the young sculptor if she would make one of her as a birthday present for her husband. 
               Daisy afterwards affirmed that she never knew how she managed to keep a straight face, and maintain any degree of composure, for she was in such a state of delight that she felt that it must be beaming out all over her. 
               She made the portrait, and it gave great satisfaction, and what was still better gave rise to other orders. First medallions, then a bust or two, then several ideal basso relievos she made, were fancied and bought by people. Then a rich woman, with a real love of art, and, if possible, a more real love of helping on and encouraging young artists, gave her an order for an ideal statue, any subject she chose to design. 
               Her father and mother, as proud now of her being an artist as they had once been anxious that she should not be, took this new sign of progress more delightfully to heart than she did. To her now every step that seemed to make success in her chosen path a surer thing brought with it less and less of that first excitement of delight, but in its place a calm contentment and serenity that in its strengthening power far outweighed the earlier feeling. The warrior on the battle-field, in the thick of the fight, does not waste strength in shouts of rejoicing at every sign of victory, but, seeing a point gained, the first thought is to strengthen it by renewed effort, that all may tend towards the one great aim; but those watching from the hill-side, who hear the sound of the bottle, and see the grand movements, knowing little or nothing of the hand-to-hand conflicts for life or death that are going on, they shout with joy, or pain, as the conflict wages to and fro. 
               There were many anxious consultations over choosing the subject for this statue, which were eagerly joined in by the artist friend Mrs. Ward had so long ago accused of helping her father spoil Daisy. 
               Otto Raymond had been a good friend to her, ever since their acquaintance had begun, long years ago, in the old caster's studio, where they had met, both there upon the same errand. Before her parents had admitted the possibility of her really being an artist, and consented to her taking lessons with a view to attaining that end, he, a young artist, just commencing his career, and knowing well the value of assistance and suggestions in the helpless, early stages, had fallen into a way of dropping in at the Wards, and criticising Daisy's work; often also using a severe hand in cutting away crudenesses and imperfections. 
               It was a compromise on her parents' part, but it was not quite so bad as the impending lessons; so they let it go on, until they became very fond themselves of the bright, young sculptor, who was such an addition to their circle of friends; and his coming in at all hours came to be such a matter of course, that if a day passed without him, some one of the family were sure to take him to task, asking, "Why were you not here yesterday?" and accept no excuse that was given, as a valid one. During the arrangement of the studio he had proved invaluable; his greater experience enabling him to know how to make many contrivances that Daisy only knew she wanted. 
               The subject of the statue was at last chosen, after they had discussed the statuesque merits of every character in sacred and profane history, mythology, poetry, and general literature, had meditated on all the Christian virtues, and shunned the heathen vices. 
               When Daisy finally decided, after everything was exhausted, "I will make Daphne as she fades into the laurel," she was greeted with a remonstrative inquiry from Mr. Raymond. 
               "Not sprouting out from the ends of her fingers, like an aggravated case of Chinese finger nails?" 
               "No, indeed!" Daisy answered. "I've seen too many pictures of that style. My Daphne shall be merged gradually into the laurel." 
               The subject once decided on, and the position determined, the supports were next made, and the clay piled. Each statue she made, Daisy learned to pile less and less clay that was not needed, to build as she went on as nearly as possible in the shape and quantity she wanted, instead of making a shapeless mass, and then cutting out her figure. So, by the end of the second day's work, the position of the figure was very well made out, though of course roughly. 
               "There is about this first massing out of the figure something very delightful to the sculptor," Daisy said, as with eyes bright with the excitement of her work, and quick and steady hand, she cut from one place, and quick and steady hand, she cut from one place, and pieced on in another, deepened a line, or softened an elevation. "Don't you think so?" and she turned to the artist, who, with her father, was sitting in the studio, watching her work. 
               He nodded his head in assent, and she went on:- 
               "While the clay is still a meaningless mass to others to you it already assumes the look you want it to have. The time for discouragement, doubt of success, has not come yet; in the first glow of putting your conception into actual form, its dim outlines deepen, and you see possibilities of untold beauty and grace. You do not see how far short of your conception even, the reality is; but in its vague, shadowy masses you find the promise of more than you had dreamed, and the amount of work that you see clearly marked out before you is a strong incentive to steady, untiring labor." 
               "Yes, that is certainly so," Mr. Raymond answered; "my interest never flags while there is much to be done to a work; but when you come to that time where you may work for hours, and an observer sees no difference; when you feel sorrowfully how far short of what your mind conceives that which your hand executes is,-then sometimes you lose interest in your work, and think, after all, that it is a mistake." 
               "I have felt that often about portraits," Daisy answered; "for there is always something discouraging about copying a face, for the possibilities are against you. The expression of your work is one; the expressions of the face you copy are innumerable. While that expression is on the face, your work may be an admirable likeness; but let a change come, let any sudden joy or violent grief pass over it, and where is the face you copied? Gone, as completely, often, as if you had modelled a stranger in the place of your sitter." 
               "Don't you have the same feeling about ideal works, Daisy?" her father asked. 
               "No, I do not think I do. As far as my ideal work may fail in what it should be, I don't think I ever lose interest in it. Notwithstanding its shortcomings, it grows to be so completely a part of myself that I cannot put it off, and look coldly upon it. Then, I always see in my works, beyond what they are, what I meant them to be, and that throws a halo over them, that, though it does not blind me to their faults, makes me love them notwithstanding." 
               "I do not think that is the case with me," Mr. Raymond said. "I am impatient with them; I dislike them if they fail; I am intolerant of anything short of success, and feel no love and fellowship with them." 
               "I cannot understand that, and I have heard you say it so often. A work I have made is real and human to me, and I would as soon think of giving up and repudiating friends I had dwelt with a long time, because they were not as perfect as I thought they could be, or acted up to what I conceived them capable of." 
               "I believe you are right, Daisy," Mr. Ward said, "and you wrong, Otto. Often it is more what anything suggests to us, where it leads us, that makes the value, rather than what it is; and a work, imperfect in itself, that suggests heights beyond it, and causes you to reach forward to what is higher and better, does, I fancy, more good than one that is perfectly satisfactory, before which you pause contented." 
               "Content is a blessed thing," Otto said. 
               "Yes," Mr. Ward answered, "that kind that Lowell, I believe it is, speaks of:- 
                     "Ceaseless aspiring, ceaseless content.'
                   Any other sort is dangerous, and often only another name for laziness. The highest aspirations are a form of discontent." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               DAPHNE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "For what she only can, I turn and ask, 
                         I ask for love, 
                        And that she can; for life in fellowship, 
                        Through bitter duties-that I know she can; 
                        For wifehood will she?" 
                     
                   
                
               CHOOSING the subject and massing out the statue were, as Daisy well knew, only the first and the easiest steps; and many a day of hard work and bitter discouragement lay between that and the casting, to be met with a brave heart and a deep determination not to be conquered by them; days when the sculptor wonders what it is that keeps him tied down to this work; wherein lies the attraction that binds him as with bands of iron; when his statue is a meaningless lump of clay, and his labor upon it the aimless toiling of an idiot?" 
               Such days are, perhaps, the necessary accompaniments of, and reaction from, the times when, in the full tide of successful work, he seems to tread on air; when earth holds no attraction equal to that exercised over him by the occupation he gives up all else for; when the sun shines brighter for it, the world seems freer and more generous, and his whole, nature seems hardly large enough to contain the joy that is flooding him with its delight. 
                
               Days of both kinds Daisy knew before her statue was many weeks old. The Daphne who at times was so real to her that her eyes would fill with tears of sympathy, as she watched her in the soft spring twilight, at other times seemed so unreal, so of the earth, earthy, that she could not work on in what seemed a mockery, but, letting down the awning over it, would shut the studio door, and stay away from it until the doubt of her work was gone. 
               Her father was most often the David who dispelled the evil spirits. When he came home and saw the studio door shut, and Daisy wandering aimlessly about the house, he would, after dinner, on the plea of accommodating him,-a plea never urged in vain,-beguile her into going around to the church with him; and there, in the twilight, he would play to her, from those poet musicians:- 
                      
                        "Who through long days of labor, 
                        And nights devoid of ease, 
                        Still heard in their souls the music 
                        Of wonderful melodies,"- 
                     
                   until faith in her work would come back, and she would be ready for the conflict of the next day. 
               Twilight in the organ-loft had seen a good deal of her life lived, had been instrumental in much of it, and her thoughts hovered lovingly about the spot where the music still took the shape of great white figures with shadowy eyes, as it had in her girlhood. 
               As the work progressed towards completion, Otto Raymond spent more and more of his time in the bright little studio, on the plea of aiding her, and though he was always ready to answer any question about the work, or to give advice on a mooted point, it was noticeable that his eyes rested more frequently on the sculptor than on her work. 
               Every one noticed it but Daisy herself. Used to his dropping in at all hours, and, from long and close acquaintance, having grown to regard and treat him as a big brother, to be called on and made use of on all occasions, she only noticed that he seemed wonderfully lazy for him, and at last took him to task for it. 
               "What has come over you, Otto?" she said, one day, half in fun and half in earnest. "You have grown so lazy I shall be afraid to play with you any more, for fear of having my good manners corrupted. If you don't mend your ways, I shall have to say to you, as the boy said to his mother, 'Muzzer, can't pa get anuzzer house-keeper? I'se so tired of seeing you around.' I don't like bad little boys that waste their time." 
               '"I am not wasting my time, I am studying," he answered, looking up at her from the low camp chair he was sitting in; "and what you mistake for laziness is merely the earnestness with which I am taking my lesson to heart." 
               "I don't believe it. 'Satan finds some mischief still for idle hands to do.' Take my sketch-book, there, and make a sketch of Daphne for me. I want it to send to Mrs. Lawrence, and I never can make a drawing of my own statues. There are my pencils, on that shelf. No, get them yourself," she said, with a laugh, as he held out his hand for them; "you are growing much too lazy to live." 
               He rose and found the pencils and book, and took his seat again. Silence reigned, while both worked busily. Presently he said, without looking up,- 
               "When are you going to the Lawrences?" 
               "I cannot go until Daphne is cast," Daisy answered. 
               "What are you going for, any way?" 
               "Because I want to,"-here the drawing of poor Daphne received a savage dig,-"and because, as Dr. Lawrence is going away, his mother will be lonesome, and wants me to come and keep her company." 
               The drawing received milder treatment, and there was silence again, until broken by the gratuitous remark:- 
               "I hate the Lawrences." 
               "Well, what have they ever done to you?" said Daisy, looking up from her work in surprise. 
               "They've never done anything, and they better not either," was the answer given, still without looking up from the work, where touch after touch was rapidly given. 
               "Come, don't be pugilistic," Daisy said, with a laugh. "If they have never done anything to you, why should you hate them?" 
               "Because you talk too much of them." 
               "Oh, the green-eyed monster; a new development that is amusing," Daisy answered. "I am afraid you got up in a bad humor this morning; I have never known you to be so unreasonably crabbed. What is the matter with you?" 
               "I want something I have not got, and I've been wanting it a long time." 
               "Why, then, don't you get it, if you can?" 
               "How can I get it?" 
               "Buy it, or borrow it, or ask for it, I suppose; these are the ways we usually get what we want." 
               "But suppose I am afraid to ask?" 
                      
                        "'He either fears his fate too much, 
                        Or his deserts are small, 
                        Who dare not put it to the touch 
                        To win, or lose it all,'" 
                     
                  
                
               Daisy quoted, as she bent down to pick up the scraper that had fallen from her stand. 
               "Then you advise me to ask?" he questioned. 
               "Yes, I should; you know I think it is more comfortable to try, and fail, than to fail from want of trying. One feels better, if better can be spoken of such a bad thing." 
               "When would you advise me to ask?" 
               "Shakespeare says, 'Take the instant by the forward top,' and I suppose he knows more than the rest of us. I should advise you to take the first opportunity you had, and get it off your mind. There is nothing like knowing the worst for settling your mind." 
               "Daisy!" came a call from upstairs. 
               Yes, mother, in a minute," she answered. "Excuse me;" and, putting down the handful of scrapers she held, she left the room. 
               When she came back, his determination was taken, and she felt, as she entered the room, a different atmosphere, though she did not know what it meant. 
               She went back to her stand and worked steadily for half an hour, only stopping to speak to her mother as she stood at the door for a moment on her way out. 
               "You can't go and pay that visit with me, dear?" 
               "No, indeed, mother, I must work this afternoon. I wasted most of yesterday, you know; so please make my excuses this time." 
               "Well, then, good-by. Take care of her, Otto, and stay to dinner with us;" and she turned and left the room. 
               Another half hour of silent application passed, and Daisy, tired of reaching up to her work so steadily, left her statue, and, taking a seat in the easy-chair, dropped her hands listlessly in her lap, and leaning her head back on the soft cushion, closed her eyes and rested. 
               When her, eyes closed. Otto lifted his from the book he had held in his hand for some time, and watched her. Sculptor that he was himself, he knew too well the mental and physical exhaustion she was suffering under, to speak to her while it lasted, but quietly bided his time, only rising to close the slats of the skylight, as he saw a sunbeam creeping through them towards her eyes. 
               Presently she opened them again, and, feeling rested, started to go back to her work. Then he rose, and, taking the end of the sofa nearest her chair, said:- 
               "Don't go back to your work yet. I want to talk to you." 
               "Oh, I must; you can talk to me while I work." 
               "No, I can't. I want you to stay where you are;" and he laid a detaining hand on her arm, as she was rising from the chair. "I want to ask you for what I was speaking about," he added, hurriedly. 
               "Ask me!" Daisy said, in surprise. "Why, what can I give you that you want?" and she sat down again in the chair from which she had risen. 
               "You are the only one who can give me what I want. And what you alone can give me is the only thing I want,-yourself." 
               It was hardly necessary for him to add that last word, for, though Daisy was not such a devourer of novels that she lived in constant expectation of having such things said to her, and though no man had ever spoken so to her before, there was no mistaking the earnest, low voice, slightly tremulous with restrained feeling, and the woman in whose ears it sounded, though for, the first time, could not help knowing what it meant. 
               With a startled face she looked at him for a moment, while with earnest, anxious eyes he waited for her answer, and at last it came, with surprise. 
               "O Otto! I didn't know you meant that; why did you let me talk so much nonsense?" 
               "I know you didn't know it, and nonsense from you is better than sense from any one else. Will you give me what I want?" and he took the little hand that lay on her lap. 
               It trembled as it lay in his, and she said:- 
               "I don't know. Otto; you have taken me so much by surprise; indeed, I never thought of this. I am so sorry." 
               "Why are you sorry, Daisy?" he asked, in a low voice. "Don't you care for me?" 
               "Yes, you know I care for you. I am very fond of you; but I don't believe it is in this way; it is just as, I have always cared for you, and I am sorry." 
               "You need not be, if this is all. I care for you, dear, just as I have always done, only my care deepens from day to day. All I ask is to let yours do the same,-won't you?" 
               Daisy thought a few moments, and then shook her head sadly, saying:- 
               "I don't believe it will do. I am so sorry; but then I am so fond of you that I don't believe I will ever love you in that way." 
               He laughed as he held her hand more closely, saying:- 
               "Is that all that troubles you? for it doesn't trouble me; they are the same." 
               "No, no, they are not," Daisy said. 
               "Well, then, if you will only promise to be more and more fond of me, I will be satisfied." 
               It was not the love-making he had pictured to himself,-this little woman he had loved with all his heart, only able to tell him, in that half-tearful, though irresistibly sweet way, that '"she was sorry." But then he remembered how unprepared she had been, owing to their peculiar friendship, for this change, and he must be patient, and wait for it to come to her. 
               "I did not know anything about it," she said, in a half-piteous way. "I thought everything was going on just as usual, and we were all so happy." 
               "I thought this would make us happier, Daisy, or I would not have said it, and worried you." 
               "It isn't that I am worried for myself, Otto," she said, laying her other hand on his, "but for you; because I don't feel as you do, and I would like to so much, to please you." 
               "It will please me, dear, if you will only promise to try, only keep on being fond of me; but let me love you? and then, perhaps, some love will come in return,-will you?" 
               "I can hardly tell, it all confuses me so much; of course I shall keep on being fond of you, for I can't help it. But I don't believe it will ever be the kind you want. I will try and love you, for I cannot bear to grieve you." 
               "My darling," he said, looking tenderly into her eyes, "the only thing that will grieve me beyond bearing will be for you to be grieved. I can bear anything else, so don't make me so sorry that I spoke." 
               The look in his eyes was more than she could bear, feeling how she had hurt him. She took both hands out of the grasp in which he held them, and hid her face and eyes, which were full of tears. 
                
               When he could endure that no longer, he rose and walked once or twice up and down the room to calm himself, then came and sat down again and waited a few minutes. Then in a voice that he made quiet through powerful control, he said:- 
               "What is the matter, Daisy? What are you thinking of now?" 
               "I didn't want to be waked up to know I was a woman. I was so happy in my work and friends as a girl, I didn't want any change; and now it spoils all our nice times." 
               "No, it shall not, dear; I will not let it; you shall be as perfectly untrammelled as if I had not spoken; and, if you will only let me love you as much as I want to, I will ask nothing more until you are willing to give it of your own free will. What I most want is to have you happy. So don't trouble your dear self any more about it; we will have everything go on as usual, as far as you are concerned, until you think you can give me what I ask." 
               "And you?" Daisy asked, looking up at him. 
               He looked down at her, and said:- 
               "I will go on, as I've been going for a long time, waiting and hoping." 
               She reached out her hand to him, and said:- 
               "Thank you; I never was as near loving you as I am now. And I promise to try all I can; and if I fail, you will forgive me for having unintentionally hurt one of my truest friends. 
               "And now," she added, presently, "you won't go; you will stay and take dinner with us, as you promised mother?" 
               "May I?" he asked. 
               "We will all be glad to have you. Now, won't you cover up Daphne for me? There is mother at the door, and I must run and dress for dinner." 
               For one instant she slipped her little hand into his and let it rest there, then disappeared from the room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               READY FOR CASTING. 
                
                  
                      
                        Beloved, let us love so well, 
                        Our work shall still be better for our love, 
                        And still our love be sweeter for our work; 
                        And both, commended, for the sake of each, 
                        By all true workers, and true lovers born." 
                     
                   
                
               THERE are moments of profound discouragement to those who spend their lives and strength in search of the beautiful in art, when, awed by the unattainableness of their ideal, they feel that like babies they are crying for the moon; and the tears are their heart's blood, that. being wept, take from them their strength and hope, and make the struggle for the unattainable seem more than useless. 
               Happy are those who can rise up again and manfully struggle on, determined that 
                      
                        "Blow wind, come wrack, 
                        At least we'll die with harness on our back." 
                     
                  
                
               Of such was Daisy; though despondency frequently attacked her gates and threatened to carry all captive. 
               As she had said, she seldom felt that she could work no more on a statue, and so had to name a day for casting, and then be ready for it. The last few weeks of work on Daphne had not been easy ones for her. She had been roused from her dream of girlhood, and had found that there were other things in the world for women to think of besides their fathers and mothers, and making statues. And that dream once so broken into did not return again; and in its place, notwithstanding her friend's declaration that all should be as if he had not spoken, was the wonder what would be, the striving to know her own mind, to try to feel as he wished her to, always returning to the same unsettled point. 
               When he was out of her sight, and she was going over the same old struggle, she could not keep from wishing that he had not spoken, that he had left her in that delicious state of grown girlhood, with its semi-consciousness of life. When she had dreamed of the matter, this was not the way she had pictured it; what she felt had been as certain as this was uncertain. 
               But when he was with her his presence seemed to drive away the indignation, and leave only the sorrow that she could riot freely give him what he wished. He was true to his part of the agreement; and while giving her the most thoughtful, kindly love, he made no demands, seemed to expect nothing that it did not come to her freely to give. 
               But all this had not made finishing the statue an easier task; and as the weather grew warm she showed such decided signs of wilting that every one insisted that Daphne should be cast, and she should take a rest. 
               So at last she fixed a day, saying that as she never felt that it was ready to be cast, it made very little difference when it was done. 
               The day before, she was in the studio early in the morning, busily at work; it was virtually the last day in which she could make changes in the statue; for what she could do after it was cast was slight, and not of much importance,-merely surface alterations. 
               She had worked for several hours, quite alone, her father being out, and her mother busy, and had reduced herself, through hard work and excitement, to a low ebb of body and spirit. Each hour, as it fled by, left the statue worse, instead of better, it seemed to her; more to be done on it as the time there was grew shorter. 
               She knew, from experience, that it was no use to delay the casting; that it would be no better a month hence than it was now; that whatever the real state of the statue, the last day of work upon it always had power to reduce her to this state of despondency. 
               At last, thoroughly exhausted, she dropped down on the sofa, and covered her eyes with her hands to rest them, and to hide the statue from her sight. She had been up and working since before sunrise, and was very tired; and nature taking revenge for the task imposed upon her, lying there with one hand over her eyes, she fell asleep. 
               When she awoke some careful hand had shut out the rays of the noon sun, so that a cool twilight reigned in the room. She knew of course who it was; and on opening her eyes and looking towards Daphne, she was not at all surprised to see Otto quickly and deftly engaged gaged smoothing the deep places,-a work he knew she abhorred. 
               It was very pleasant to see her work going on so skilfully in hands she could trust, and, giving no sign of being awake, she lay still and watched him. 
               She was tired,-tired of struggles and conflicts of all kinds; and it was so nice to be watched over and cared for in this way. She would call Otto presently, and tell him he could have his wish. The temptation was a strong one; she was very fond of him; it was almost like love, and he had said it would turn into it after a while; and he was so good to her, had always been such a firm, true friend. 
               At this moment, as if conscious of her eyes upon him, he turned towards her; and with that singular power of reading faces that some people have, he knew that if he pressed his suit then, he would gain it. 
               He moved towards her; it was the chief wish of his and he saw that he could win her now; and once having promised to be his, she would be. But in time he remembered his promise to wait till she of her own will gave herself to him; he remembered that, tired excited, any promise she gave now would be given disadvantage, and all these thoughts passing through has mind as he looked at her, he turned and went back to the stand, and commenced to work again. 
               Something in his manner silenced the words she was about to speak, and, rising from the sofa, she also went back to work. 
                
               Presently, when he had gained command of his voice, he said:- 
               "Are you so very tired?" 
               "Yes," she answered, "very tired, and more discouraged. Daphne is so far from what I fancied she would be, so different from even my ideal of her, that I can only feel that I have failed, and here is the end of my work." 
               "I don't think, Daisy, that you have failed," he said; "you have worked too hard lately, and have lost the spiritual part in the earthly. Wait a little while till the reaction comes ; then you will see her as she really is,-as we see her; indeed she will shine out the more freely for this temporary eclipse. I wish I could help you dear, in this strait, but you know it is what we all have to go through,-the tax we must pay for our joy in our work, the natural wrench of separating it from ourselves. 
               "When she comes back in her white transfiguration, then, for a short time, you know, you will see her as the rest of us do; and she is very lovely, wonderfully satisfying. She has grown into my very heart." 
               They worked on silently for some time, and after a while, one by one, the family dropped in to watch the completion of the statue, and the conversation was general. 
               But, as the evening twilight was stealing into the room, the two sculptors were again alone with the statue. 
               Never, in the full tide of the most satisfactory public applause is. a statue as near and dear to the sculptor as at that time. Afterwards it belongs to the world; now it is his very own, and only his; on the morrow he will lose all the work he has been putting his soul into for months, and it is like losing some dear friend. This is the last time they will ever meet face to face, and there is a humanity about it to him that it can hardly have to another. 
               The windows and doors of the studio were all open, and the soft evening air was blowing gently through the room, hardly enough to be a breeze, but just to keep up a slight motion in the trees outside. 
               In the door-way, facing Daphne, stood the two, taking their last look at her in her individualization, for the caster was coming early in the morning, and then she would be merely a statue to be cast. 
               They watched her in silence for some time. She was leaning upon the trunk of the laurel-tree, her head thrown slightly back to one side, and her eyes just beginning to close; one arm, thrown above her, was half imbedded in the bark of the tree, while the other, hanging by her side, shone through the leaves that were encircling her; one foot helped to support her weight, and the other was almost buried in the roots of the tree; her long hair hung partly over one shoulder, and then was lost among the leaves. She was gradually fading into the tree. The expression of the face was sweet and forgetful, a tired look fading out of it. 
               They gazed in silence, until darkness came down, and hid it from them; then Otto let down from the ceiling the cover over it, and Daphne was finished. 
               There were traces of tears in Daisy's eyes, as they turned to leave the room, and, resting her hand on Otto's arm, she said, in a soft, low voice:- 
               "I will not go to the Lawrences' to-morrow, if you do not wish me to, or would rather not have me." 
               Again came the strong temptation to speak the words that would bring him what he longed for; should he speak them? At any rate, should he not stop this visit that haunted him ever since he knew of it, though he hardly knew why? One word from him would do either; should he utter it? 
               He paused a moment where he stood, and, dropping Daisy's hand from his arm, looked at her, and went through the same old struggle that he was almost tired of making. The color left his face, and she looked at him, only half comprehending. Would he accept her offer to give up this visit, he thought, and then have to feel that she had been influenced by his will, and had not chosen freely from her own need? 
               She crept a little closer to him, and again laid her hand on his arm, feeling, as she had felt all day, singularly drawn to him, and asked, "Shall I give it up, Otto?" 
               "No, dear," he said, at last, with a great effort. "I can trust you there, as well as here, to act as will be true to yourself, and therefore best for both of us. However it will be, I trust you." 
               And they passed through the open door into the lighted parlor. 
               The next afternoon, Daisy went up the river to stay with Mrs. Lawrence. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               TRUE TO NATURE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Art's a service,-mark: 
                        A silver key is given to thy clasp, 
                        And thou shalt stand unwearied, night and day, 
                        And fix it in the hard, slow-turning wards, 
                        And open, so, that intermediate door, 
                        Betwixt the different planes of sensuous form 
                        And form insensuous, that superior men 
                        May learn to feel on still through thee to those, 
                        And bless thy ministration. The world waits 
                        For help." 
                     
                   
                
               SHE was thoroughly worn out with the work and excitement of the last few weeks, and after her father went back home and left her with Mrs. Lawrence, she gave herself up to resting, body and soul; trying to think and feel as little as possible, until she was cooler and quieter within. 
               Mrs. Lawrence humored her, seeing that she really needed rest, and left her very much to her own devices for some days, making no arrangements and proposing no plans, except for the ordinary routine of the day. 
               It was a blessed relief to her overtaxed brain, and she spent the time in the perfection of summer listlessness, often lying for hours on the grass, out under the trees, only moving to get out of the way of the encroaching sunbeams, and resting in the beauties of nature. Sometimes times Mrs. Lawrence would join her with her work and a book, and read, or talk, or be silent, as the fancy took her. Sometimes she would be alone almost all day, following her friend's wish that she would do just as she pleased. 
               It was almost as pleasant and resting as an attack of typhoid fever after a time of great trouble and harassment; and under the influence of it Daisy's color began to creep back, her step grew more springy, and she was altogether a different-looking woman. 
               The first sign of returning life was shown by her asking for a bowl one day; and, going to the closet where she knew the clay she had used before was kept, filling the bowl with clay and water, setting it by to soak. As usual, after a long cessation from modelling, the smell of the wet clay was so delightful that her spirits rose perceptibly in twenty-four hours, until she seemed hardly like the same woman. 
               "Now you are like yourself," Mrs. Lawrence said to her, as they sat together on the portico, while Daisy modelled her portrait. "I was beginning to fear I would never see you again." 
               "While there's clay, there's hope," Daisy answered. "I don't believe I will ever be so far gone that it will not bring me back again." 
               "The hair of the dog being good for the bite, I suppose,-clay having taken you away, clay alone can restore you." 
               "It was not clay alone that took me away," Daisy answered. "I was a good deal perplexed about something else; and the two were too much for me." 
               "What was the other thing, if you don't mind telling an old woman like me?" Mrs. Lawrence asked. 
               Daisy colored, hesitated a moment, and then said, "It was my artist friend, Otto Raymond, of whom I have spoken to you, as having been so kind to me." And then she gazed at the bust she was making, far too earnestly for seeing. 
               "And are you no longer perplexed?" Mrs. Lawrence asked, presently. 
               "No," Daisy answered, hesitatingly, "I don't think I am now;" and no more was said about it. 
               Daisy had answered truly, that she was not perplexed now. The quiet time she spent on first arriving in the country had made her see things much more clearly than she did before, and she had come to the conclusion that she could not settle such a question by arguments pro and con with herself, but that she must wait, and let it work itself out by the helping force of circumstances. 
               Otto had said himself that it might come with time; so she would wait, only keeping her mind clear and free, that when the time came she could choose rightly. 
               Regularly his letters came to her. She looked forward to them, read them with pleasure, and answered them as she had always talked to him. In every respect she felt to him just as she had always done; so there was nothing for her to do but just wait. 
               Several weeks passed busily and pleasantly, and she was beginning to talk about going home as soon as the bust was cast, and it was almost done. They were writing for her every letter, and with the idea of returning there would come back some of the old strife; and what made it still harder was the openly expressed approval of her father and mother, and their satisfaction in the prospect of what Otto wished, coming to pass. 
               One day there came a letter from her father, in which, unlike his usual style of writing and talking, he spoke of himself and her mother as no longer young, and said what a comfort it would be to them to have her so comfortably settled before they died and left her, and that she must be careful to have good cause before she rejected the love of a true man like Otto. 
               She began at once to think that her father must be sick, or he would not have written in that way, of dying; and if he was, was it right for her, just for a fancy, a whim, to deny him the satisfaction it would be to see this thing pleasantly settled? She naturally thought about it until she worked herself into a state of excitement such as she had been in the day Daphne was cast; and she was ready to sit down and write to her father and Otto the same thing,-what they both wanted. 
               She wrote the letters and put them in her pocket; then, feeling that she had at last committed herself, and there was no escape for her, she left the house, the atmosphere of which seemed stifling to her, and started off for a broad, sloping field, beyond the woods back of the house, where she could lie and watch the sun setting behind the distant hills,-a sight that always quieted her, no matter what was the disturbance. 
                
               It was a lovely afternoon, with a cloudless sky, and a soft breeze blowing in her face, and as she walked along, hat in hand, she thought how happy she would be if it were not for those two letters in her pocket, weighing her down like lead. She reached the field, and, throwing herself down on the grass, out of sight and sound of human habitation, she watched the dark hollows between her and the hills, the purple shadows and hazy lights chasing each other over the hill-side, and the glorious yellow sky, against which all objects were gradually losing their own color, and assuming a soft, neutral tint. 
               She lay there for she did not know how long, forgetting most else, drinking in all the quieting beauty of the scene, and thinking the thoughts of youth, which "are long, long thoughts," when, hearing a movement in the woods, the pushing away and crackling of branches, she looked up, and saw Dr. Lawrence coming down to her from the heights. He was the last person she would have expected to see, for that morning a letter had come from him, from a western town, in which he had said nothing of coming home; but there he was, and, as her eyes rested on him, she felt such a thrill of having found joy and rest at last, that, for the time, she asked or cared for nothing more, but gave herself up to the delight of the moment. 
               Why had she never understood why giving Otto this kind of love was such an impossible idea? She only had felt that she could not do it; but now, the moment her eyes rested on this man, whom she had not seen for several years, she knew that if she ever gave that kind of love to any one, he was the one to whom she would give it. 
               Wanting in the present no greater happiness than she had, she did not go to meet him, but just waited until, with a rapid step, he came up. When he reached her he dropped down on the grass by her side, and, taking the hand she reached out to him, he held it between both of his, and said:- 
               "I am very glad to see you, my dear friend." 
               None of Otto's words of love, deep and true as she knew them to be, had ever moved her as these few words did; and she sat still and made no answer, merely looked her welcome. 
               "You don't ask me, as my mother did," he said, presently, "even before she bade me welcome, 'What have you come home for?' And yet you are my reason for doing it." 
               Her heart beat a little quicker, as, not trusting herself to speak for fear her voice would betray this secret that was clamoring for outlet at her cheeks, eyes, and lips, she looked the inquiry she dare not put in words. 
               "Still you won't ask toe?" he said. "And will I have to tell you my secret, without being asked, even before I tell my mother? Since you won't show any interest," he went on, "I shall be obliged to tell you, for I can keep it to myself no longer. 
               "Some months ago I found out, no matter now how, the name of a gentleman who had been, for years, very intimate with your own father,-a college mate, and then a friend till his death." 
                
               Daisy's eyes were turned from the hills towards which they had been looking, and she was eagerly watching him. 
               "I found that he was living in a little town in Iowa; and, having to go there, some weeks ago, I determined to take the opportunity to look him up, and see if I could get from him some of the information I knew you would like so well to have. 
               "When I arrived I found he had gone to another town in the upper part of the State. I followed him there, hoping to catch him. Of course he had gone somewhere else, and I again followed him." 
               "What became of your business, though," Daisy asked, "as you were chasing him over the country?" 
               "Oh, as it happened, I could transact it as well in one place as in another." (Here Daisy began to have a suspicious look.) "So when I found he was again gone, I gave hot chase, beginning to regard him as a will-o'-the-wisp. They gave varied accounts of him; but I gathered, from all I heard, that he was an invalid travelling around to find a place that suited his state of health. 
               "When I finally found that much out, I began to have some definite hope of at last catching up with him, if settling was in his mind; so I went on with fresh courage. It was well I did, for two or three villages after that, the landlord of the hotel, at which he stopped, said, when I asked after him:- 
               "'Ah, yes, he was here; and a sick man he was too. He couldn't drink our water, so he went on twenty miles below here, where he is now, I suppose, if he is a live man.' 
               "That village did not hold me long after that suggestion; but I started off for the next, where, sure enough, I had the satisfaction of finding that he had died three days before, and his wife had taken his body home. 
               "I was very disappointed, but determining, having gone that far, not to give up until the end, I followed the poor wife home, and, as soon as it was decent, called upon her, and stated the case. She was interested at once; said, though she had not known your father very well, personally, she had seen him several times, and known of him as her husband's dearest friend. 
               "She said she was looking over her husband's books and papers, and if I would only wait a few days she would give me all she could find concerning him,-which she thought must be considerable,-as now he was dead, it would be of more value to you than any one else. I waited, and the morning she gave them to me I started off, and here I am, as soon as the cars would bring me, to make my report to you." 
               "And what became of the business you had?" Daisy asked, with a quivering lip, laughing to keep down the tears. 
               "Oh, I finished with that all right," he answered. "And, now I've brought you the things, I must apologize for not having spoken of it before; but I thought it so doubtful whether I found him, or got anything from him, that I thought it was best not to speak until I saw what there was. But it could hardly have been better. 
                
               "This gentleman had, and his wife sent you, bundles of letters commencing when he was at college; many of them, she said, in journal form, giving a very complete history of his life, and extending up to the time of his death; and two pictures of himself and of your mother, that he had sent soon after their marriage. I have them all to give to you as soon as we go to the house, but I could not resist the pleasure of telling you before. But do not look that way, or you will make me sorry;" for she had not succeeded in keeping the tears down, and they were having it pretty much their own way in the eyes looking so gratefully into his. 
               "It is because I am so touched, and glad, and so thankful to you," she answered, and, rising from the grass, they started in the home direction. 
               Walking homeward by his side in the early twilight, while he talked to her, and she listened, her eyes bent upon the ground, and hearing, yet not hearing what he said, she took from her pocket two sealed letters, and, hardly looking at them, she began to tear them into small pieces, keeping all in her hands, and when they passed a swift, running stream of water, she paused a moment, threw them into it, shook one or two that clung, off her hands and dress, and then turned back to the path and walked the rest of the way with a freer step and a lighter heart. 
               And that night, coming downstairs in the dark, she heard Mrs. Lawrence tell Owen, as they sat out on the portico in the starlight, her suspicions that were almost certainties, about Otto Raymond. He made no answer, and she crept back upstairs again, as noiselessly as she could. 
               The first evening after she arrived at home, she was sitting in the studio, when Otto came in, with the old glad smile of welcome on his face, and hastened to greet her. 
               She could not bear seeing on his face the expression she knew had no right to be there, and for both their sakes, to save as much pain as possible, she determined to tell him all at once. As soon as their greetings were over, she said:- 
               "Otto, I want to talk to you a little while, and answer the question you asked me. I know certainly now." 
               If the expression of his face had been hard to bear before, it was doubly so now, as it fairly shone with joy. 
               "Oh, please don't look so happy," she could not help saying. 
               "O Daisy!" he said, the light all going from his, "you don't mean that; you surely can't. Is there no mistake?" 
               None, Otto; I am very sure of it now. So sure," she added, hesitatingly, as his eyes demanded more of her, "that I know now that I do love some one else in the way I tried to love you. I did try," she said, "with all my heart, until five minutes' work undid it all, and showed me what I had no idea of. I could not help it, Otto; I did not mean to." 
               "And he?" Otto asked, with lips that quivered under his mustache. 
                
               "He doesn't know, and I don't know that he ever will," she answered. 
               "Then isn't there hope for me way off in the future?" he pleaded. "I can wait for years." 
               "No, Otto," she answered solemnly. "His knowing it or not will make no difference." 
               Then the strong man bowed his head on the arm of the chair, and silence was in the room. Daisy watched him, feeling almost as wretched as he did. At last, when she could endure it no longer, she went to him as he had done to her that day, and, laying her hand on his bowed head, said:- 
               "Otto, we can at least be dear friends, and help each other in our art lives, even if we cannot in the other way. Don't refuse me that." 
               He did not move. There was one plea that she knew would rouse him, and she used it. 
               "And, Otto, we are both alike. I need comfort also; won't you give it? Let us help each other. I am even worse off than you are, for I have deeply hurt you, my best friend. So comfort me for that. You promised to trust me." 
               That brought his face up, looking haggard and worn, for he had staked his all and lost it. 
               "I do trust you, dear," was all he said. 
               "And you will let us be dear friends still? I cannot lose you so." 
               "This doesn't alter my love for you, Daisy," he answered, with the saddest smile; "we will still be dear friends, as we were before." 
                
               "You will forgive me for hurting you so?" she asked, with quivering voice. 
               "Yes, my darling, I forgive you; you did not mean to. How could I help forgiving you? I love your happiness better than my own." 
               She looked at him a moment, as she stood by his side, then, suddenly stooping over, took his head in her two little hands, and kissed him one, two, three times, in a tender, sorrowful way, as if it was all that she could do, and then, unable to keep the tears any longer in their proper bounds, she ran upstairs, and throwing herself on her own bed, cried herself to sleep, late in the night. 
               And he, down there in the studio, where his hopes had grown, and been nourished, sitting alone in the darkness, knew, as each of these kisses burned on his hot forehead, that there was no longer a shade of a hope for him; they had burned out what little there might have been lingering in his heart. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               DAISY'S WORK BROADENS. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "And underneath, the inscription, with a date,- 
                           'All things come round to him who will but wait." 
                        
                      
                     TALES OF A WAYSIDE INN. 
                   
                
               ANOTHER winter passed, and Daisy's work, still growing upon her,-as all true work will,-filled many an hour that otherwise might have been very lonely, and hard to live through patiently and sweetly. She was gradually growing into notice as an artist, and found her time pretty well filled with work. 
               She was resting one afternoon, after a hard day's labor, and, as she lay down on the sofa, took up the morning's paper to look over it. Casting her eyes down a list of losses by various speculations, she caught sight of her grandfather's name, and a statement that he had lost everything he had. 
               She carried the paper to her father, and showed him the paragraph. 
               "Well?" he asked, as he glanced at it. 
               "Do you suppose it is true?" she asked. "Every cent he has." 
               "Yes, such is the report I heard down town this morning, and they say he is very ill, threatened with paralysis. He always was a rash speculator; but these last few years he has also grown a careless one, and this was one of those brilliant schemes in which men embark all they own, and come out of paupers." 
               "And is he a pauper?" 
               "I suppose so, as far as personal property goes." 
               Daisy was very thoughtful for a few minutes, while her father watched her silently, knowing the struggle that was going on in her mind. But it only lasted a short time; presently she lifted her head and said:- 
               "Now, father, I will go to him. He may want me; perhaps I can do him good and love him. There isn't that dreadful barrier between us any longer. He is where my parents were; so I can forgive him, and go to him without any injustice to them, and do for him whatever I am able." 
               "What about your statue and your work?" 
               "That can. go to the caster at once, and whatever finishing is necessary I can do in the plaster. The rest of my work can wait until I can come back to it. You do not object?" 
               "Object? No, my dear child; I am only too glad that you have at last, of your own free will, consented to do what all your friends have always wanted you to do. I only hope it is not too late; for they say the old gentleman is in a very broken-down condition." 
               "He is at Norriswood, I suppose?" 
               "Yes." 
                
               "I might write to-day, telling him that I was coming, and then go up to-morrow." 
               "That would do very well. Run and write now. I will go and tell your mother you are going, then carry your letter to the mail." 
               Daisy's letter was soon written, for all she said was:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR GRANDFATHER:-I am coming to see you, if you do not object. I will be there to-morrow evening. 
                           
                              "Your affectionate grandchild, 
                              "DAISY DODD."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Short, but sweet!" said her father, as she showed it to him. "What there is of it is very much to the purpose, however. I will take you up to-morrow, though I will have to come right back again. Your mother will have your trunk ready, and send after you what things you need, that cannot be arranged in time. So now you can give your last thoughts to the statue; I will send up the caster." 
               "Kind and thoughtful as ever," Daisy said, as she put her arms around his neck and kissed him. 
               When they arrived at the station the next evening they found the carriage waiting for them, and, much to Daisy's relief, no one in it but Fanny. 
               "Ah, Daisy! Daisy!" she said, as with tearful eyes she put her arms around her neck, "I am so glad that at last you have come home. Though a sorry home-coming it is for the heiress." 
               Daisy and her father looked at Fanny in astonishment. 
                
               "Why, didn't you know," she said, "that grandpa had made you sole heiress of all his property? That is the reason he grieves so at losing it. The only way he has retained Norriswood is, that he made a deed of gift I believe it was, settling it upon you as soon as you came of age. So you were rightful owner of the place before he lost his fortune, which was to be yours at his death. Poor grandpa! it is a great grief to him; he takes it dreadfully to heart. He talks as if his fortune would have repaid the wrong he had done you, and feels that now you can never forgive him at all." 
               Daisy felt, on hearing this unexpected announcement, that nothing would induce her to be the owner of this place that should have been her mother's; and determined quietly to give it back to her aunt's family, who had always looked upon it as theirs, and to whom it would be more necessary. She felt that, accepting anything like this from the family, would undo all the comfort of being reconciled to them. 
               Mr. Ward could only stay at Norriswood long enough to hear of Daisy's first interview with her grandfather. 
               "Ah, Daisy, Daisy," the old man said to her, as she came up to his bedside, "why didn't you come to me before? I have nothing now to leave you, child; I am poor, very poor." 
               "Never mind, grandfather," she answered. "I love you better than if you had everything to leave me, for now I will not be haunted by what might have been." 
               His mind was failing and he did not fully take in what she said, and answered: 
                
               "Yes, you might have been the largest heiress in the country, if I had only succeeded; but now we will be poor, very poor. Poor girl!" 
               Her aunt motioned to her to humor him in what he said, and so she talked to him in quiet, soothing tones about it until presently he fell asleep, and she went down to see her father. 
               "Father," she said to him, "if ever I am tempted to worship money, this will be an awful warning to me." 
               Then he had to leave her with a living good-by kiss, and start for home. 
               Her grandfather woke, calling for her, and was restless until she came, not seeming easy if she was out of his sight. Sometimes he knew her; then he would mistake her for her mother, and talk to her of things strange and unknown to her, but that would make her aunt's eyes glisten with tears, if she happened to be near, and she would often softly whisper to her what answers to make to him. 
               Whichever she was to him, child or grandchild, he was never easy unless she was near, talking to him, or singing, often old songs of her mother's that her aunt took out from some hiding-place in the garret, where they had been banished, and that, old and yellow as they were, were more precious to her than the lost fortune, because of the names written on them,-"Daisy Norris," and here and there, in a bold, manly hand, "Frank Dodd." 
               She could not get away long enough to go and see the Lawrences, and did not like to send for them to come to see her. So, as Fanny said Dr. Lawrence was her grandfather's physician, she thought waiting until they found she was there would be the best way. 
               One afternoon, Mr. Norris fancied he was much worse, and a servant was sent over in great haste for the doctor. Meeting him on the road, they turned back at once, and, arriving at the house, Dr. Lawrence was ushered right into the sick-room. 
               It was late in the afternoon, and the room was dark, so that, coming in from the outside glare, he walked up to the bedside, not seeing that any one else was there. Mr. Norris hardly let him inquire for his health, or find out wherein he was worse, so eager was he to tell his news, and he broke into the midst of something he was saying:- 
               "O doctor, you said she would come back to me, and now she has come. I have Daisy. Sometimes I have her, and sometimes I have her mother, and they both sing me to sleep as I used to do to her when she was a little baby." 
               The doctor had given a start when the childish old man said she had come, and with eager eyes searched the gloom of the room, while Mr. Norris went on talking, holding tightly his hand all the time. When at last he had finished, he said, "Has she come? I am so glad. Where is she?" 
               "Daisy," said the old man, "come and see Dr. Lawrence; he was an old friend of your mother's, and is so good to me, for he has told me all along that you would come to me at last." 
                
               Daisy came from the other side of the bed, where she had been sitting in the shadow, came very quietly, and put her hand in the doctor's without a word. 
               "Why don't you tell him you are glad to see him?" queried her grandfather. "But you always were a strange child, and now you won't be glad to see my friend." 
               The doctor was so glad to see her that he hardly knew whether she was glad or not. 
               "But you'll sing for us, won't you?" Mr. Norris went on, in a coaxing manner, as if talking to a little child. "Sing that pretty song you sung for me this morning." 
               "Yes, grandfather," she said, the first time she had spoken, "I will sing for you if you want me to, only not now." 
               "Yes, now," said the old man. "I want this gentleman to hear what a pretty voice you have." 
               "You had better sing for him," the doctor said in a whisper. 
               So without a word Daisy sung, and as she finished one song her grandfather called for another and another, until he fell asleep. 
               Days passed, and Mr. Norris grew more and more feeble, mentally and bodily, so that often the others could relieve Daisy from her watch by his bed, and give her time for the exercise she so much needed. 
               One afternoon, when she had been talking and singing to him until she was nearly exhausted, he fell into a heavy sleep, in which he was likely to lie all night, and Mrs. Skinner, coming in, relieved her of her guard and sent her to lie down. 
               But she was too restless and tired for that, and had been still so long in the darkened room that she longed for the afternoon sunlight and the cool evening air, and, instead of going to her room, went down the broad stairway to go out of doors. 
               At the hall-door she met Dr. Lawrence, and told him that her grandfather was at length asleep, and her aunt was with him. 
               "And you, poor little pent-up Daisy," he said, "are utterly worn out." 
               "Not quite as bad as that," she said, "but very tired; marvellously exhausted as to the voice." 
               "Then don't talk any more; come with me, and let me talk to you, and you need not speak for ever so long." 
               Down the broad avenue of trees they walked slowly; but the doctor seemed to have forgotten his promise to do all the talking, and Daisy was too tired to do it for him, so there was silence between them. She walked by his side, her hands clasped together and listlessly hanging before her, and from time to time he looked down at her and seemed inclined to speak, then changed his mind and remained silent. 
               At last they reached the end of the avenue, and, turning to one side, followed a little foot-path that led to a cool spring. When they reached there, Daisy dropped down upon the mossy bank, dipping her hands in the. water. They had left the trees, and, save for a few around the spring, there was a clear view before I them of the sunset, across waving fields of grain. 
               The other side of the spring the doctor seated himself resolutely, and at last began his promised talking, more, however, as if he was speaking to the setting sun, or the birds of the air, than to the woman who, the other side of the bubbling spring, was bathing her forehead with; its cool waters, while the sun was turning her hair to molten gold. 
               "A few years ago," the doctor commenced, more definite than the usual fairy-tale beginning,-"Once upon a time,"-"I found, in the road, after nightfall, as I was riding home from the bedside of a dying woman, a bride of only three months,-a child or woman, I could hardly tell which. She fainted as I raised her from the ground; and all the rest of the way I carried her as gently as I could, hardly knowing sometimes, so strange it seemed, whether I bore the bride, dead by that time, no doubt, or the fainting girl. 
               "When at last I reached home my mother cared for her as tenderly as if she had been her own, and even then I found myself wishing that she might really, as she did apparently, belong to no one, so that we might have her. Possession being nine points of the law, even when we found out that she belonged to several sets of people, we kept her to ourselves for a long time. 
               "And through it all I could hardly tell whether she were child or woman. Sometimes the one, sometimes the other; but as either, I learned to love her, to watch for her eve, to listen for her voice, and miss them both sorely when I did not see or hear them. At last, however, we could keep her no longer; and when, the night before she left us, thinking the woman was regnant, I was about to tell her how my life needed her to make it full and complete, the child came back, and, in answer to a question I asked her, she said that an artist's life had always been her wildest, fullest dream, and now that was opening before her she wanted nothing else but that her friends should continue to love her, and that she should have strength to work. 
               "I saw she had no need of me then, and that I must wait. I waited, patiently as I could. Sometimes, when it grew too hard for me not to see her eyes and hear her voice, I would go down to the city, where she was, and, haunting the church where I knew she went to sing, sometimes from dark corners of it I would hear that voice that was the sweetest music to me, see her flitting about in the organ-loft, as indistinct, and, often it seemed, as far off from me as the angels. Then I would see her take her old seat in the corner of the loft, and gaze down into the dark church; and I knew she was seeing the white, shadowy forms she loved so well, and wondered if she felt my eyes upon her, that she would seem restless. 
               "Then I found from her singing that the woman had been roused in her, and that she felt the need of something she did not have; but I could hardly hope that my love was what she needed, so I waited still. 
               "Once, I went down, and her father came to the church alone, and a horror seized me; but I felt in a moment if that were so, he would not come there and play. He did not play long, however; he seemed restless, and soon left the church. 
               "After my visit out West, I hastened to my home where she was, thinking that what I brought her would make her think kindly of me, and determined to try for what I wanted so much. It was on just such an evening as this, that I met her; and, as we talked and walked, I felt that I must claim her for my very own, and would have done it, but my mother told me I was too late; that the love I wanted had been won from me. 
               "I bore it as men can bear such things when they have to, comforting myself with the though that at least she was happy. But, though I had lost hope, I still went to the church to hear the dear voice I loved, and there was not the ring in it I expected; the need was not satisfied yet. 
               "At last I found her where I had long hoped and wished to see her. I was so glad in my heart, at being in her dear company, that I did not notice for some time that the longing had left her voice, and there had come in its place a rest. Even when I did notice it, it seemed as devoted to her art as ever. 
               "Gradually, however, seeing her day by day, I fancied that perhaps I was more to her than I had thought; that her life had broadened so that there was a place for me also, and that, having her art, I might be what she needed. 
               "Has my long story tired you? Is my hope right, and does your art leave room in your heart and life for me?" 
               A little hand, dripping with cool spring water, was stretched over to him, and a low voice said:- 
               "I am not an Undine, though that looks like it, and you have had reason to think I had no heart. Your story did not tire me, and your hope is right. If I seemed to have no heart in the old time, it was because it had not been wakened. I have one now, and warm enough to hold other things beside my art; not that I love that less, but that it has made me love everything else more. 
               "When I said that I wanted nothing else but an artist's life to make me happy, I thought it. I did not know that I would wake up to other needs besides; I did not fully know it, until I came back to the neighborhood where I had been so unconsciously happy. 
               "Then I knew what I needed, and that I had room in my heart for another life, as well as for an artist's." 
               "But you do not know of all my history," she said presently, "and I must tell you one part of it that I have never told any one before; that no one knows but father, mother, and myself, and, until you know it, you cannot, must not, decide about this, for it may alter your wish. Between the times that my own parents died and my adopted parents took me into their home,-it was a whole year; I cannot bear to think or speak of it,"-and she hesitated. 
               "Don't then, dear, for it can be nothing that will make the least difference to me," 
                
               "I must tell you though. Mind, I say it was a whole year. I was a little street beggar, wandering from door to door, begging for something to eat, sleeping under door-steps, dressed in rags, often hungry and driven on by policemen. 
               "See how dreadful it is! I will not hold you to what you said. 
               "I finally fainted from hunger on the chancel step of that same church, and there my dear, good friends, the Wards, found me. They did not seem to mind it, but certainly you must." 
               "Mind it?" he said, as the burning cheeks were hidden in her hands. He took them away tenderly, and held them both in one of his, while, with the other, ho made her lift her face. "Yes, I do mind it; more almost than I ever minded anything before; but only that I may help you to forget it; only that I may love you the more dearly, and make all the last years of your life so pleasant, so peaceful and happy, that they will entirely blot from your recollection that one unfortunate year of your childhood. Will you forget it, for my sake? My darling shall never again beg, unheard and unanswered, while I live." 
               When a few more weeks had passed Mr. Norris, suddenly rousing from a stupor, in which he had been lying for many hours, said to Daisy, who was sitting close by him:- 
               "You may marry the artist now, Daisy, my child. I do not mind it; he is a nice, fellow, after all, and, even if he isn't rich, and is named Dodd, I have enough money for all of us. It makes very little difference what we are, if we are only good." 
               And he died with the permission on his lips that came all too late to do any good; but that, given years before, would have saved so much suffering and misery, so many heartaches. 
               Dr. Lawrence loosened his cold hand that held hers, took Daisy in his arms, from the bed of the dead man, and, soothing her sobs, carried her from the room, telling her that now she had done much for her parents, had gained their the pardon they would, in their lifetime, have given so much to have. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            The Breakwater Series. 
            BY VIRGINIA F. TOWNSEND. 
            Price $1.00 per Volume. 
             
               I. JOANNA DARLING; 
               or, The Home at Breakwater. 
               THE story of a little orphan girl of twelve, told in so touching a manner as to never fade from your memory. 
             
             
               II. THE BOY FROM BRAMLEY. 
               The story of a shy, ill-treated orphan boy of twelve, whose whole life is changed by a few kind words, and a small gift from a benevolent gentleman. As a newsboy on a railroad train he does a heroic act in a collision, and you rejoice in his upward steps to position and fortune. 
             
             
               III. HOPE DARROW. 
               A Little Girl's Story. 
               Hope, a little girl of nine, and her big brother Lewis, are orphans living in an isolated farm-house, all in all to each other. A railroad accident to a city lad introduces them to a wider circle, and no story written is more touching. 
             
             
               IV. MAX MEREDITH'S MILLENNIUM. 
               A manly lad of twelve is the hero of this the best story for boys you ever read. Try the opening chapter, and you won't close the book till the end is reached. 
               Miss Townsend has a great reputation as a writer of mature books, and this series for boys and girls from ten upward has won her a host of readers. Each of these books are "Heart Stories," that move you strangely, and make everything from her pen eagerly sought after. 
               Sunday-school librarians say these books wear out in service, they are such favorites. 
             
          
          
             
            POPULAR JUVENILE BOOKS, 
            BY HORATIO ALGER, JR. 
             
               RAGGED DICK SERIES. 
               
                  Complete in Six Volumes, 
                
                  I. RAGGED DICK; or, Street Life in New York. 
                  II. FAME AND FORTUNE; or, The Progress of Richard Hunter 
                  III. MARK, THE MATCH BOY. 
                  IV. ROUGH AND READY; or, Life Among New York Newsboys. 
                  V. BEN, THE LUGGAGE BOY; or, Among the Wharves. 
                  VI. RUFUS AND ROSE; or, The Fortunes of Rough and Ready. 
                
               Price, $1.25 per volume. 
             
             
               CAMPAIGN SERIES. 
               
                  Complete in Three Volumes. 
                
                  I. FRANK'S CAMPAIGN. 
                  II. PAUL PRESCOTT'S CHARGE. 
                  III. CHARLIE CODMAN'S CRUISE. 
                
               Price, $1.25 per volume. 
             
             
               LUCK AND PLUCK SERIES. 
               
                  To be completed in Six Volumes. 
                
                  I. LUCK AND PLUCK; or, John Oakley's Inheritance. 
                  II. SINK OR SWIM; or, Harry Raymond's Resolve. 
                  III. STRONG AND STEADY; or, Paddle your own Canoe. (In October, 1871.) 
                
               OTHERS IN PREPARATION. 
               Price, $1.50 per volume. 
             
             
               TATTERED TOM SERIES. 
               
                  To be completed in Six Volumes. 
                
                  I. TATTERED TOM; or, The story of a Street Arab. (April, 1871.) 
                  II. PAUL, THE PEDDLER; or, The Adventures of a Young Street Merchant. (In November, 1871.) 
                
               OTHERS IN PREPARATION. 
               Price, $1.25 per volume. 
             
          
       
   
