
    ----CITATION----
        Randolph, Paschal Beverly, (1825-1874). The Rosicrucian's Story .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7537
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Rosicrucian's story 
            
               A      ?uN&amp;  M00RWQTO AQT OF CONG1RS.]
TOE BREAT SENSATION TALES
ItOSICIJUCIAN'S STORY:
Ort TRR
l iti t  o fn   attz*AND
Stau 0evg  ll      I Ibnhkt (mu I4@lgo  I
BY DR* P. 1. RANDOLPH.
Itl4Q~ ~   ! (w"fga  otebMutec Globo," bWas06U. %1,l
ft N ight," "?,Too 14s etr,," $4me  ut.
clae.," "'The Uovlltog,  EMuma A tiqua7,"l
"Naitag with te DW4I" "The Gmd~
$.  ie 1% ec,  etc.*,  etc.,,,4ec.
NEWYO RK:
INAI TOU8E+Y, 121 NASSAU STRRE.
AOW'ET OR THE AUTON.
1 868.

i
i

'   ;


DR. P. B. RANDOLPH'S THRILLING TALE.
THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY:
THE WONDERFUL THINGS THAT HAPPENED TO
MR. THOMAS W., AND HIS WIFE.
EMBRACING THE CELEBRATED "MIRANDA THEORY."
BY DR. P. B. RANDOLPH,
AUTHOR OF
HUMAN ANTIQUITY,"c" DHOULA BEL ; OR, THE MAGIC GLOBE,
"THE GRAND SECRET," " THE GOLDEN LETTER," " THE
UNVEILING,"  "RAVALETTE," ETC., ETC., ETC.
PUBLISHED BY M. J. RANDOLPH.
1863.


S
Y
i
N    ,
kL
4
bf
i
i
i
J
1
x
t
1
i
" b
z
'f T
L           j
Y
' i
r               f
1
t

CG
Entered according to Act of Congreas in the year 1863, by
AI J. RANDOLPH3,
ia the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Eouthern
District of New York.

To those who are married, and discontented, and misera-
ble, unhappy, and generally wretched, and who want to see
a better state of things-which is herein shown how to be
done-to -those who love, and are capable of being loved ;
and those whom nobody loves, yet who are daily dying
therefor, this book comes as a potent teacher of "HO W TO
DO IT." The book abounds in Magic, certainly ; yet that
Magic is of the White. not the Black sort ; and the extraor-
dinary Talisman recommended herein to be frequently used
(and which was first found by the Rosicrucians in the great
Temple, on its Brazen door, within the Golden Triangle, just
previous to the " Dream within a dreain," in PART FIsT,) is
one, than which the whole record of Magic since Chaldea's
early days, shows not an equal. It has moved mountains,
turned rivei's, softened human hearts, and absolutely forced
people to " Love one another."  But let me caution you!
Be silent and secret; use it carefully, and you will find most
extraordinary results will follow. I have frequently used it,
and know its mighty power. To such as need this Talisman
it and this Book is dedicated.
-rICA, N. Y., .July, 1863.

P R E F A C E.


A FEW WORDS ABOUT THE AUTHOR.
Tuis is Mr. Randolph's eighth work, including a few nov-
els (the last and best f which is still in manuscript), most
of which have gone forth under a nom de plume. He has
at last decided to drop all disguises, since it is now conceded
on all hands that a man, even if of mixed blood, has certain
rights that are bound to be respected. As an earnest, effect-
ive and eloquent speaker, Mr. Randolph has long since taken
a very high and enviable rank. The American Press years
ago conceded this; while that of London freely accorded him
a very high position, notwithstanding he was only heard in
England when advocating a cause, at that time very unpopu-
lar across the Atlantic. What they think of this "Dumas
of America," as the Press style him, who know him best,
may be gathered from the following, selected at random from
hundreds of similar import:
"Mr. P. B. Randolph has been personally known to me
for many years. My relations with him have been intimate;
and I desire to say of him, as I do with great pleasure, that
he possesses remarkable abilities, which, in the face of im-
mense discouragements, have been remarkably cultivated.
"He has a laudable ambition to occupy some field of labor
which shall be worthy of his capacity, and give fair scope to
his intellect ; but the slight taint of Indian and African blood
in his veins hs proved to be, and is an effectual barrier to
-                                                                  the attainment, in almost all directions, of positions of honor,
trust and distinction, which few men are better qualified to
fill.
"He is an original thinker, a logical reasoner, an eloquent
speaker-has a memory that forgets nothing; and if he could
obtain service, or could be aided to take the field in behalf
of his brethren (which he desires to do), I have no doubt h


r,
ya
F
i
#i
i
.
F
'  l
'Y
a?
}4p
i
i!!ry
TjS
7
I'
t
;1#°
,z i
[      ,   '
{ x '1 =
r  Y
it
;t
f'.
1
,G
1  " yy{iyi   {
t
, . s;
s
I
r
F :
i{i
i}
i
,,

INTRODUCTION.

Vi                   INTRODUCTION.
would not only acquit himself with credit to his friends, but
be of great service to the cause he may thus advocate.
"A man having the inherent ability and versatility which
distinguishes Mr. Randolph, yet who, by our social laws, is
so effectually shut out from most fields of honorable effort,
has large claims upon men who can really aid him. I ar-
dently hope he may find such, who will secure to him the
opportunity he seeks.  Respectfully,  L. M. TAYLOR.
UTICA, November 5th."
The following gentlemen of Utiea join in the above testi-
monial: H. S. Nichols, H. P. Perry, W. P. Perry, W. B.
Taylor, and A. J. Watts.
" PREIRBoRo', August 29th*.
"Mn. P. B. RANDOLPH: 
" DEAR FRIEND-I have heard you deliver a discourse on
Intenperance, and one on Slavery. They were characterized
by your remarkably original, strong and fruitful mind. I
hope you will be frequently invited to speak on these im-
portant subjects.   Your friend,     GERRIT SMITH."
in addition to the above letter, Mr. Smith gives Mr. Ran-
dolph the following general certificate :
"The bearer, Mr. P. B. Randolph, is endowed with high
intellectual powers. I have heard his public advocacy on
Temperance and Freedom. His speeches abounded in origi-
nal thought and beautiful imagery.    GERRIT SMITH.
"PETERBORo', October 31st."
These are recommendations of which any young man in
the land might be proud. Mr. R. has never devoted him-
self to the discussion of the single topic of Negro Slavery, or
Indian wrongs. He said: " There are enough to do this. I
will carve out a road to Fame alone, and will challenge the
man of the dominant race on his own ground-the fields of
Science, Literature and Philosophy." He has done it, despite
the bitter and malignant opposition of certain self-styled
Philosophers and Progressives, whose lead he refused to

vi

follow or acknowledge. They will be attended to hereafter.
To-day Mr. Randolph's position as a thinker, orator and
author, is a proud and impregnable one. His books sell by
thousands ; halls are thronged whenever he speaks; and on
many points of thought and philosophy, his opinions are
authoritatively quoted.  He is " coming up."  Says the
Brooklyn Star, in the report of a speech by him:
"Mr. Randolph, by invitation of Mr. Beecher and others,
will deliver one more speech on Temperance before he leaves
us for his western home. He speaks at the Brooklyn Insti-
tute to-morrow (Tuesday) evening, at 71 o'clock. When this
man first appeared among us as a Temperance speaker, his
power and eloquence surprised everybody who heard him.
The effects produced by him upon his audiences was such
that an almost universal doubt prevailed as to whether he
could maintain the same power thereafter; but - this opinion
has given way to the - conviction ' that,' to quote Mr.
Beecher-' The Lord has raised up a powerful instrument
for His service in the Temperance cause in this man.'. He
is evidently a man of unusual ability and great mental re-
sources. Time after time has he been called upon to speak
at a moment's warning, and without the slightest prepara-
tion, and yet every speech is a decided improvement on the
last, even when the first was universally acknowledged to be
excellent. Mr. Randolph takes rank with our best speakers,
but is not an imitator of any. His style is unique and en-
tirely original, somewhat resembling J. B. Gough's. inasmuch
as his speeches abound in bold figures and magnificent ima-
gery, brilliant flights, rich anecdote, large philanthropy, and
uncompromising hostility to wrong in any shape. It can
but infuse new life into the noble movement to have such
standard-bearers as Gough in Europe, and Randolph in this
country. Mr. R. is a Son of Temperance, and belongs to
Washington Division, No. 4, which also claims as members
several of the first men of this section of the State. Go to
the Institute early, for otherwise it may be difficult to obtain
seats."
Mr. Randolph has traveled much, having crossed the At-
lantic eight times, and journeyed in Scotland,Ireland, England,

I1

'p S

I


}     /Y
'ii
2f;
petf

France, Egypt, Arabia, Syria, Turkey, Greece and Italy, be-
sides visiting Central America, Mexico and California, and
thrice rejected golden offers to visit India. China and Japan.
It is but little credit to say that he is in many respects the
best educated man of mixed blood in this country ; but he
is solely self-learned. " Genius," says a great authority, " is
ever faulty."  Mr. Randolph had his faults; but they were
of the head, never of the heart. His principal one seems to
have been the withering exposure of the clap-trap and blas-
phemy enunciated from the Platform at Utica in September,
1858. Davis, the pretended seer and clairvoyant, who is
about as clairvoyant as a German sausage or a brick wall,
has never forgiven him the damage he sustained at Mr.
R.'s hands on that occasion, and Mr. R. is glad of it-glad
to have escaped the influence of Davis's funny and ridiculous
doctrines about "1Summer lands" and "Sirloin dispatches."
Mr. R. some time -since established a laboratory in Utica,
New York (where it is still conducted by M. J. Randolph),
for the preparation of his three celebrated "Positive Medi-
cines," so famed in New York and Boston. Many are the
victims of sexual abuse and excess, spermatorrhoea and scro-
fula, and diseases of the blood and brains, who will yet, as
in times past, bless the day, and thank Heaven that they
ever heard of Mr. R., and in exchange for the five or ten dol-
lars paid as fees, recovered the priceless boon of manhood,
womanhood, health and strength. Still, with all his chemi-
cal and other labors, Mr. R. finds time to travel and to
write, and will continue so to do until "Life's fitful fever is
o'er."                                      G. D. S.

ysii

1~

INTRODUCTION.

s zP

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.
-art -tst.
LARA,
HE used to pace rapidly up and down the deck for a min-
ute or two, and then, suddenly striking his forehead, as if a
new thought were just pangfullyooming into being at the
major foci of his soul, he would throw himself prone upon
one of the after seats of the old "Uncle Sam," the steamer
in which we were going from San Francisco to Panama, and
there he would lie, apparently musing, and evidently enjoy-
ing some sort of interior life, but whether that life was one
of revery, dream, or disbodiedness, was a mystery to us
all, and would have remained so, but that on being asked, he
very complaisantly satisfied our doubts, by informing us that
on such occasions he, in spirit, visited a place not laid down
in ordinary charts, and the name of which was the realm of,
" Wotchergifterno," which means in English, "Violinist's
Meadow" (very like " Fiddler's Green"). When not pacing
the deck, or reclining, or gazing at the glorious sunsets on
the sea, or the still more gorgeous sun-risings on the moun-
tains, he was in the habit of-catching flies which flies he
would forthwith proceed to dissect and examine by means of
a microscope constructed of a drop of water in a bent broom-
wisp. Gradually the man became quite a favorite with both
passengers and officers of the ship, and not a day passed hut
a crowd of ladies and gentlemen would gather around him to
listen to the stories he would not merely recite, but compose
as he went along, each one containing a moral of more than
ordinary significance. It was apparent from the first that the
man was some sort of a mystic, a spiritualist, or some such
out-of-the-ordinary style of person, because every thing he
said or did bore an unmistakable ghostly impress. He was
sorrowful withal, at times, and yet no one on the ship had
a greater or more ,humorousrwof spirits. In the midst,
however, of his brightest sallies, he would suddenly stop
short, as if at that moment his listening soul had caught the

p

4t
e_


' 11r
j ~Ix

jubilant cry of angels when God had just pardoned some
sinful, storm-tossed human soul.
One day, during the progress of a long and interesting con-
versation on the nature of that mysterious thing called the
human soul, and in which our fellow passenger had, as usual,
taken a leading part, with the endeavor to elicit, as well as
impart, information, he suddenly changed color, turned almost
deathly pale, and for full five minutes, perhaps more, looked
straight into the sky, as if gazing upon the awful and ineffa-
ble mysteries of that wierd Phantom-land which intuition
demonstrates, but cold reason utterly rejects or challenges for
tangible proof. Long and steadily gazed the man; and then
he shuddered-shuddered as if he had just received some
fearful solution of the problem near his heart. And I shud-
dered also-in pure sympathy with what I could not fairly
understand  At length he spoke ; but with bated breath,
and in tones so low, so deep, so solemn, that it seemed as
though a dead, and not a living man, gave utterance to the
sounds: "Lara ! Lara ! Ah, Lovely ! would that I had
gone .hen--that I were with thee now !" and he relapsed
into silence.
Surprised, both at his abruptness, change of manner and
theme-for ten minutes before, and despite the solemnity of
the conversational topic, he had been at a fever heat of fun
and hilarity-I asked him'what he meant.  Accustomed, as
we had been, to hear him break in upon the most grave and
dolorous talk with a droll observation which instantly pro
yoked the most unrestrainable, hilarious mirth ; used, as we
had been to hear him perpetrate a joke, and set us all in a
roar in the very midst of some heart-moving tale of woe,
whereat our eyes had moistened, and our pulses throbbed
tumultuously, yet I was not, even by all this, prepared for
the singular characteristic now presented. In reply to my
question, he first wiped away an involuntary tear, as if
ashamed of his weakness ; then raised his head, and ex-
claimed:
"Lava! Lara! The Beautiful One !"
"What of her ?" asked Colbert, who satopposite him, and
who was deeply moved at his evident distress, and whose
curiosity, as that of us all, was deeply piqued.
"Listen," said he, "and I will tell you;" and then, while
we eagerly drank in his words, and strove to drink in their
strange and wondrous meaning, (first warning us that what"

THE ROsICRUCIAN'S STORY.

11

he was about to say was but the text of something to be
thereafter told,) he leaned back upon the taffrail, and while
the steamer gently plowed her way toward Acapulco and far-
off Panama, said:-
Fleshless, yet living, I strode through the grand old hall of
a mighty temple. I had been compelled to climb the hills
to reach the gates that bar the Gates of Glory, and now within
my heart strange pulses beat the while. I found myself upon
the verge of a vast extended plain, stretching outo the In'ni-
tudes, as it seemed, through the narrow spaces wherein the
vision was not obstructed by certain dense, convolving vapor-
clouds that ever and anon rose from off the murky breast ot
waters of the river of Lethe, that rolled hard by and skirted
the immense prairie on and over which I proposed to travel,
on. my way from Minus to Plus-from Nothing to Some-
thing, from Bad to Good, and from Better to BEsT-traveling
toward my unknown, unimagined Destiny-traveling from the
Is -toward the shall Be. And I stood and mutely gazed-
gazed at the dense, dark shadows rolling murkily, messily
over the. plain and through the spaces-dim shadows of dead
worlds.' No sound, no foolfall, not even mine own-not an
echo broke the Stillness. I, was alone !-alone upon the vast
solitude-the tremendous wastes of an unknown, mysterious,
unimagined Eterne-unimagined in all its fearful stillitude !
Within my bosom there was a heart, but no pulse went from
it bounding through my veins; no throb beat back respon-
sive life to my feeling, listening spirit. I and my Soul were
there alone; we only-the Thinking self, and the Self that
ever knows, but never thinks-were there. My heart as ,not
cold, yet it was more : it was, I felt, changed to solid stone-
changed all save one small point, distant, afar off, like unto
the vague ghost of a long-forgotten fancy ; and this seemed to
have been the penalty inflicted on me for things done by me
while on the earth ; for it appeared that I was dead, and that
my soul had begun an almost endless pilgrimage-to what?--
to where ?  A penalty ! And yet no black memory ofe d=
handed crime haunted me or lurked in the intricacie of the
mystic wards of my deathidefyin soul;-and I strodlloxie
adown the uncolumned vistas of-the grand old temple-  tem-
ple whose walls were builded of flown Seconds, whose teasel-
ated pavements were laid in sheeted fHours, whose window# on
one side 'opened upon the Gone ages, and on the other ipo n
the Yet to Be; and its sublime turrets pieced the elds,

THE ROSICRUC1AN7S STORY.

10


q   S
rs !
i
r57)
1
S
aid=li
i t S'SSi
id,
t   z    #y'fs
"  ''t
' i
r        t   it
i            [t
6=fit,{
-d1#;
t
p

THE RoSICRUCIAN S STORY.

which roll over and mantle the hoary summits of the grey
Mountains of Time ! And so I and my Soul walked through
this temple by ourselves-alone !
With clear, keen gaze, I looked forth upon the Vastness,
and my vision swept over the floors of all the dead years ;
yet in vain, for the things of my longing were not there. I
beheld trees, but all their leaves were motionless, and no ca-
roling bird sent its heart-notes forth to waken the dim
solitudes into life and music-which are love. There were
stately groves beneath the arching span of the temple's massy
dome, but no amphian strains of melody fell on the ear, or
filled the spaces, from their myriad, moveless branches, or
front out their fair theaters. All was still. It was a palace
of frozen tones, and only the music of Silence (which is vocal,
if we listen well) prevailed ; and I, Paschal the Thinker, and
my Thought'-strange, uncouth, yet mighty but moveless
thought---were the only living things beneath the expansive
dome. Living, I had sacrificed all things-health, riches,
honor, fame, ease, even Love itself, for Thought, and by
Thought had overtopped many who had started on the race
for glory long ere my soul had wakened to a consciousness of
itself-which means Power. In life I had, so it seemed,
builded stronger than I thought, and had reached a mental
eminence-occupied a throne so lofty-that mankind won-
dered, stood aloof, and gazed at me from afar off; and by
reason of my thought had gathered from me, and thus con-
demned the Thinker to an utter solitude, even in. the most
thronged and busy haunts of men ; and I walked through
earth's most crowded cities more lonely than the hermit of
the desert, whose eyes are never gladdened by the sight of
human form, and through the chambers of whose brain no
human voice goes ringing. Thus was it on earth ; and now
that I had quitted it forever, with undaunted soul, strong
purpose, and fearless tread, assured of an endless immortality,
and had entered upon the life of Thinking, still was I alone.
Had my life, my thinking, and my action on thought been
failures ? The contemplation of such a possibility was bitter,
very bitter-even like unto painful death-and yet it seemed
true that failure had been mine-failure, notwithstanding men
by thousands spoke well of me and of my books-the children
of my thought-and bought my books in thousands. Fail-
ure . My soul rejected the idea in utter loathing. For a
moment the social spirit, the heartness of my nature over-

THE ROSICRUCIAN's STORY.

shadowed Reason, and caused me to forget that, even though
confined by dungeon walls, stricken with poverty, deformity.
sin or disease--even though left out to freeze in the cold
world's spite-yet the Thinker is ever the world's true and
only King. I had become, for a moment, oblivious of the fact
that on all four of Earth's Continents my name was quoted
as a standard authority upon all questions concerning Man--
as he was, as he is, and as he is to be ; and of the still greater
one, that it was inscribed upon the fadeless scrolls in the Tem-
plea of the Rosie Cross ; and that, to be a true Rosicrucian
was to engender the envy, spleen and hatred of little men
and women, while winning the love of few who knowledge
have, and wisdom to increase it,--therefore that failure was
an impossibility. Rosicrucians never fail!
But now, as I slowly moved along, I felt my human nature
was at war with the God-nature within, and that Heart for
awhile was holding the Head in duress. I longed for release
from Solitude ; my humanity yearned for association. and
would have there on the breast of the great Eterne - given
worlds for the company of the lowliest soul I had ever be
held - and despised, as I walked, the streets of the cities of
the far-off earth. I yearned (ah. Father, how I yearned!) for
human society and affection, and'could even have found bliss-
ful solace with---a dog ! just such a dog as, in times past, I
had scornfully kicked in Cairo and Stamboul. Even a dog
was denied me now-all affection withheld from me-and in
the terrible presence of its absence I longed for death, forget-
ful again that Soul, which is very life, can never die. I
longed for death-that deeper extinguishment which might
sweep the soul from being, and crown it with limitless, peace-
ful, eternal Night-forgetful. again, that the Memories of
Soul must live, though the rememberer cease to be, and that
hence Horrors would echo through the universe-- children
mourning for their suicidal parent, and that parent myself!
And then I lay me down beneath a tree in despair -a tree
which stood out all alone from its fellows, in a grove hard
by--a tree all ragged and lightning-scathed  an awful monu-
ment, mute, yet eloquently proclaiming to the wondering on-
looker that God had passed that way, in fierce, deiflc wrath,
once upon a time, in the dead ages, whose ashes now be-
strewed the floors of that mighty temple of Eterne.
It was dreadful, very dreadful, to be all alone.  True,
the pangs of hunger, the tortures of thirst, the fires of am-

mss
A
y.
r' li
i  2 ,
'.:fit
_ i'
'L ;
::.:

I3

12


14

THE ROSICRUCIANIS STORY.

bition, and the raging flames of earthly passion, could no longer
mar my peace. Pain, such as mortals feel, was unknown;
nor could disease rack my frame, or disturb the serenity of
my external being -for I was immortal, and could laugh)
these and Death itself to scorn ; and yet a swifter anguish, a
more fearful suffering, was mine. I wept, and my cries gave
back no outer sound, but they rang in sombre echoes through
the mighty arches, the bottomless caverns, the abyssmal deeps
of Soul-my soul-racking it with torments, such as only
thinking things, poor lonely souls, can feel. There flowed vast
pain-billows over the gossamer nerve-net of my spirit. Such
is the lot of- every daughter of the Starbeam - such are the
disciplines of every quenchless son.of Day -destined citizens
of the Farther Empyrean. And these are the signs by which
ye may know them, on the earth or the other side of Time.
Sleep came-sweet Sleep --deep and strange; and in it
1 dreamed. Methought I still wandered gloomily beneath the
vast arches of the grand old hall, until at last, after countless
cycles of ripe years had been gathered back into the treasury
of the Supreme Grand Master, I stood before a solid, massive
door, which an inscription thereabove announced as being the
entrance into the Vestibule leading into the Garden of the
Beatitudes. This door was secured by a thousand locks, be-
sides one larger than all- the rest combined. 1 Every one of
these locks might be opened,'but the opener could not pass
through unless he unfastened the gigantic master lock having
ten thousand bolts and wards. A doom ! Once more a sort
of despair seized on and fully enshrouded my soul, in this
dream which was not all a dream; for to achieve an entrance
through the gate without the master-key was a task, so said
the inscription, that would require the labors of human ar-
mies for periods of time utterly defying man's comprehen-
sion-so many were the difficulties, so vastly strong the
bolts.  Sadly, mournfully, I turned away, when, as if by
chance-forgetting that there is no such thing as Chance-my
eyes encountered a rivetless space upon the solid, brazen
door-a circular space-around the periphery of which was.
an inscription running thus : "MAN ONLY FAILS THROUGH
FEEBLENEss OF WILL !"  Within this smooth circle was the
semblance of a golden triangle, embracing a crystalline globe,
winged and beautiful, crowned with a Rosicrucian cypher,
while beneath it stood out, in fiery characters the single

THE RoSIcRUcIAIs STORY.             15
word   fairi !"  The very instant I caught the magic signifi-
cance of these iyme inscriptions, a new Hope was begotten
in the majorfoci of my soul; Despair fled back to its dismal
solitude, and in the excess of joy I passed into
A DREAM WITHIN A DREAM.
What a change ! During my slumber it seemed that I had
been transported to the summit of a very lofty mountain,-yet
still within the Temple. By my side stood an aged and
saintly man, of most regal and majestic presence. He was
clad in an oriental garb of the long-gone ages. and his flowing
robes were bound to his waist by a golden band, wrought
into the similitude of a shining serpent-the sacred emblem
of eternal wisdompsand the insignia of mental power. Around
his broad and lofty brow was a coronet of silver, dusted with
spicul- of finest diamond. On the sides of the center were
two scarabei, the symbol of immortal man; and between
them was a pyramid, on which was inscribed a mystical
character which told, at the same time, that his name was
Ramus the Great--the same known historically as Thothmes,
or Thotmor the Third, King of all Egypt, in the 18th dynasty,
and sixty-ninth Chief or Grand Master of the Superlative
Order of Gebel Al Maruk-since known, in Christian lands,
as the Order of the Brethren of the. Rosie Cross, and now
known in America and Europe, where it still thrives, as the
Imperial Order of Rosicrucia.
This royal personage spake kindly to me, and his soft
tones fell upon the hearing of my soul like words of pardon
to the sense of sinners at the Judgment Seat. " Look, my
son," said he, at the same time pointing toward a vast pro-
cession of the newly risen dead-a spectral army, on the
sides of the Mountain of Time. slowly, steadily, mournfully
wending their way toward that part of the temple I had
quitted previous to the commencement of this dream within
a dream. Said the man at my side: "Yonder host of pil-
grims are men and women who are seeking, as thou hast
sought, to unbar the Gates of Glory. that they may pass
through them into the delightful Garden of the Beatitudes.
It is one thing to be endowed with Intellectual Strength,
Knowledge and Immortality ; it is another to be Wise and
Happy. The first is a boon granted to all the children of
earth alike ; the last can only be attained by integral devel-
opment - by self-endeavor, by innate goodness and God-ness

, ,j;1i
' 'i
, ,  i
#, ,I
'
;,
.r
;:
. yy.l
l j
4k,,
j ,4 s91
t  ;  ~
t
f,
t S  t
tl
i f
1 ?
i il
,  F
,i t1
Ii
S .,, t

{
3
.
z
e


1;i
s  'I1t

externally manife-ted -and this in material and aromal
worlds the same. Man is man and womar is woman, wher-
ever they may be ! The true way to the garden lies not
through Manifestation Corridor, but through the Hall of Si-
lence ! and each Aspirant must open the door for himself
alone, by himself alone, and by and through no other. Fail-
ing to enter, as thou hast failed, each must turn back, and.,
like thee, come hither to Mount Retrospect, and entering into
the labyrinths within its sides, must search through the cells
of Memory for the triple key, which alone can unbar the
Gate. and admit to the Beautiful Garden ! Remember ! De-
spair not! Try !" and in an instant the Phantom man turned
from me, and with outstretched armns, and benignance beam
ing from every feature, hied him toward the head of the as
sending army.
Again I stood alone, not now in despondency and gloom,
but in all the serene strength of noble, conscious Manhood-
not the manhood actual, but the certain and glorious possi-
bility thereof. My soul had grown. It was aware of all its
past short-comings, failures, hatreds--one of which, toward
one man who had done me deadly wrong, still survived --
stronger than ever, now that I was across the Bridge of
Hours, and had become a citizen of the inner land -a wan-
derer through Eternity. That hate was as immortal as my
deathless soul. Will it ever be ?  And yet I had ever meant
well. All was calm in my spirit, save this single awful
hatred. In this spirit, with this consciousness--not of deep
malignance, but of outraged Justice -I began to look for the
mysterious key ; and as 1 looked, an instinct told me that
the key must consist of three grand human virtues, and their
corresponding deeds, held and done before I left the shores
of Time and embarked upon the strange and mystic sea where-
on my soul's fortunes were to be encountered ; and I certainly
had a dread that my hatred of the man would prove a rock
upon which I yet might founder.
And so I searched, and at last seemed to have found
what I sought-Virtues clothed in      word-names ; and
thereupon I wished myself once more before the brazen Gate.
Instantly, as if by the higher magic, the wish was realized,
and I stood before it, on the same spot formerly occupied.
The first inscription, the symbols and circle had disappeared,
and in their stead was another circle, containing fiery lines,
which lines were these: "Speak, for thou shalt be heard

;
:,  ,
:,
' r
-,;, ;
,' '
;s
,   ,
{ + l t
g   :t
t.
x,
' n_

E' ..L
rf
rr ny
r ~
t  rr
rr
L
'r
i
w
ycrr
y
, 41

Tell aloud what thou hast done to elevate thy fellow-men,
and to round out the angles of thine own soul. Whom hast
thou uplifted, loved, hated ? Sp :ak, and when the words
containing the key are spoken, the door will yield, and thou
mayest pass the Threshold !"
The writing slowly faded, and left nought but a surface,
but that surface as of molten gold. I spoke aloud my claim
to entrance, and, to my astonishment, my voice rang out,
shrill and clear, through the vaults and arches of the mighty
dome towering far above my head. "I have suffered from
infancy-been opposed from the cmdle to maturity-been
hated, robbed, slandered on all sides, yet pushed forward in
defiance of all, until I reached a height so proud and lofty
that nothing more could earth give me. Self-educated, sor
row instructed, I achieved triumphs where millions failed ;
have reaped laurels and grasped the keys of fame, and
laughed at my folly afterward, because what is fame? A
canker, gnawing out one's life when living, disturbing his
repose when dead-not worth a straw ! But in all this,
despite the ending, I have set an example, by following which
man might elevate himself, and society be improved, and its
constituents realize the bliss of moving in loftier spheres of
usefulness !"  While giving voice to these, truth-facts, I
firmly expected to see the gate fly'open at their conclusion.
But what was my horror and dismay to see that it moved
not at all, while the echoes of my speech gave back in fright-
fully resonant waves of sound the last word, " USEFULNESS."
Not being able to. think of any nobler achievements, I
cast my eyes groundward, but on again raising them I be-
held across the clear space on the door, the single word
" TRY."
Taking heart again, I said, ".Alone 1 sought the secret of
restoring health to the sick, and I gaveit freely to the world.
'T'he most precious balsams, restoratives, means of relief and
cure, I dispensed with a free hand, and gave priceless medica-
ments to all,without money, without price. I cured sick bodies
by ministering to the soul, and the converse. I have made
grand efforts to redeem mankind from sloth, sin, ignorance,
and have ever upheld the honor of the Cross, and the sweet
religion it symbolizes. I have hated but one man, but that I
could not help. Striving ever to upraise the veil that hides man
from himself, in the effort I have been misapprehended. my
motives impugned, and my reward, instead of gratitude, has

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.  sTORY.

THE ROSICRUCIA ')S STORY

16

17


2' :
I
1;:t

THE ROsSCRUCIAN5s sTORY.

been poverty, slander and disgrace. In the strife of human
redemption, I have constantly been heedless to every call save
that of human duty, and in obeying the behests of a nobler
destiny, I have been regardless of all worldly distinction,
have ignored wealth, fame, honorable place in the world's
esteem, and have even been deaf to the calls of love !"
I ceased, and again the vaults threw back my last word,
and all the arches echoed "LOVE !"
The gate moved not, but once more appeared upon the
golden lozenge on the door the word " TRY !" in greater
brightness than before, while it seemed to the hearing sense
of my spirit that akthousand velvet whispers-low, so low,
gently cadenced back "LOVE."
t I have rebuked the immoral. humbled the lofty and
overbearing, exposed deception, comforted the mourner, re
deemed the harlot, reformed the thief, fed the orphan and
upheld the rights and dignity of Labor !"
Still the door rpoved not, but again the echoes gave back
the last word, " LABOR !"
"I have preached immortality to thousands, and prevailed
on them  to believe it; have written of, and everywhere pro-
claimed its mighty truths, and its still more mighty signifi-
cance, having been its acknowledged champion for years. I
have beaten the skeptic, confirmed 'the wavering, reassured
the doubting, and through long and bitter years, in both
hemispheres of the globe, from sea to sea, have declared that if
a man die he shall live again ; thus endeavoring to overthrow
error, establish truth, banish superstition, and on their ruins
lay the deep and broad foundations of a better faith !'  As
if myriad voices of the dead and gone chimed out my last
syllable, there rang through the spacious halls and corridors
of the Temple, the sublime word, 'Faith !" and instantly
the bolts appeared to move within their iron wards. Con-
tinuing, I said: " I have ever endeavored, save in one single
instance, to foster, and in all cases have a spirit of forgive-
ness." This time there was no mistake. The thousand bolts
flew back, and the ponderous brazen gate moved forward and
back, as if swayed, like a vast curtain, by a gentle wind ;
while a million silvery voices sang gloriously, -- In all cases
have a spirit of forgiveness -'
Joyously I tried again, intuition plainly telling me that
only one thing more was necessary to end my lonely pil-
grimage, and exalt me to the blessed companionship of the

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

z
rr  :
l
1  '

19

dear ones whom I so longed to join in their glory-walks
adown the celestial glades and vistas of God's Garden of the
Beatitudes. T spoke again:
"I have fallen fionman's esteem in pursuance of what
appealed to  e my duty. A new faith sprung up in the
land. and un ise zealots brought shame and bitter reproach
against and upon it. Lured by a false eloquence, I yielded
to the fasciations of a specious sophistry, and for a while
my soul languished under the iron bondage of a powerful
and glittering falsehood. At length, seeing my error, and
the People's, I str-ove to correct them, aiid to sift the chaff
from the true and solid grain ; but the people refused to be
lieve me honest, and did not, would not understand me ; but
they insisted that in denouncing Error I ignored the living
truths of God's great economy, thus proving unworthy, by.
reason of casting aside both chaff and wheat ; yet still I
labored on, trying to correct my faults, and to cultivate the
queen of human virtues, Charity !" Scarcely had this last
word escaped my lips, than the massive portals flew wide
open, disclosing to my enraptured gaze such a sight of super,
nal and celestial beauty, grandeur and magnificence, as human
language is totally inadequate to describe; for it was such,
as it stood there revealed before my ravished soul; and I
may not here reveal the wondrous things I saw and heard.
Lara, Lara, my beautiful one, the dear dead
maiden of the long agone, stood before me, just within the
lines of Paradise. She loved me still--aye, the dear maiden
of my youth had not forgotten the lover of her early and
her earthly days-
When I was a boy, and she was a girl,
In the city by the sea,
ere the cruel Death had snatched her from my arms, and
love, a long, long time ago; for the love of the Indian, as his
hatred, survives the grave. . . And she said, ' Pashal,
my beloved-lone student of the weary world--I await thy
entrance here. But thou mayest not enter now, because no
hatred can live inside these gates of Bliss. Wear it out, dis-
card it. Thou art yet incomplete, thy work is yetunfin-
ished. Thou hast found the keys ! Go back to earth, and
give them to thy fellow-men. Teach, first thyself, and then
thy brethren, that only Usefulness, Love, Labor, Forgive-
ness, Faith and Charity, are the keys which are potent to
cure all ill, and unbar the Gates of Glory !

18


20             THE ROSICEUCIAN'S STORY.
"Lara! Beautiful Lara, I obey thee ! Wait for me, love.
I am coming soon !" I cried, as she slowly retreated, and
the gate closed again. "Not yet, not yet," I cried, as with
extended arms I implored the beauteous vision to remain-
but a single instant longer. But she was gone. I fell to
the ground in a swoon. When I awoke again, I found the
night had grown two hours older than it was when I sat
down in my chair in my little chamber in Bush street, the
little chamber which I occupied in the goodly city of the
Golden Gate."
Thus shake the Rosicrucian. We were all deeply moved
at the recital, and one after the other we retired to our
rooms, pondering on the story and its splendid moral. Next
day we reached Acapulco, and not till we had left and were
far on our way toward Panama, did we have an opportunity
of listening to the sermon to the eloquent text I have just
recounted.
At length he gave it, as nearly as I can possibly reproduce
it, in the following words :

{
,   j
.  t
i
t  '
sij

i
jC
tom,
MFR
:
3
?'
J;{

THE ROSIcRUcIAN'S STORY.             21

gait Qeoug
THE DOUBLE DREAM.
-" and saw within the moonlight of his room-
*    *    *    *      *    *an-
An angel, writing in a hook of gold."-Lmsoa HUNT.

li

AND so you like the text, do you? Very well, I will now
see how much better you will be pleased with the sermon.
Listen:-
I cannot endure, I will not stand this any longer. Here
am I, yet a young man-in the very prime and heyday of
life, and I do believe that I shall be a regular corpse in less
than no time, if a change for the better don't very soon take
place in my family ; that's just as certain as "open and shut."
She, ah, she, is killing me by inches-the vampire ! Would
that 1 had been thirty-five million of miles the other side of
nowhere the day I married her. Don't I, though! Betsey-
Betsey Clark is killing me ! No love, no kindness, not a soft
look, never a gentle smile. 0, don't I wish somebody's fune-
ral was over ; but not mine; for I feel quite capable of
loving, of being happy yet, and of making somebody's daugh-
ter happy likewise. People may well say that marriage is a
lottery-a great lottery; for, if there's one thing surer than
another, then it is perfectly certain that I have drawn the
very tallest kind of a blank ; and hang me, if it wasn't for
the disgrace of the thing, if I wouldn't run off and hitch
myself for life to one of the Hottentots I have read about ;
for anything would be better than this misery, long strung
out. 0, don't I wish I was a Turk ! When a feller'sa Turik
he can have ever so many wives-and strangle off all of 'em
that don't suit him or come to Taw-as they-ought to. Bully
for the Turks I I wish I knew how to turn myself. If I did,
I'd be the biggest kind o' one afore mornin'!
Such was the substance of about the thousandth soliloquy,
on the same subject, to the same purport, delivered by Mr.
Thomas W. Clark, a friend of mine-the Rosicrucian's-
during the last seven years of his wedded life.

-

l  '
,   4;
, ;Ex ,


THE ROSICRL CIAs s STORY.

22

THE ROSIORUCIAN'S STORY.

Tom Clark delivered himself of the contented and philan-
thropic speech just recited, on the morning of a fine day, just
after the usual morning meal-and quarrel with his-wife,
shall I say ?-female attendant would better express the
relation defacto  Mr. Clark was not yet aware that a woman
is ever just what a husband's conduct makes her-a thing
that some husbands beside himself have yet to learn. Every
day Tom's and his wife's food was seasoned with sundry and
divers sorts of condiments other than those in the castor.
There was a great deal of pickle from his side of the gay and
festive board, in the shape of jealous, spiteful inuendoes; and
from her side much delicate sauce piquante, in the form of
sweet allusions to a former husband of his dulcinea, whom
that lady declared to have been "the very best husband that
was ever sent to"--a premature grave by a vixen-she might
have added, truthfully, but did not, finishing the sentence
with, "be loved by a tender, gentle, loving wife"-like her !
The lady had gotten bravely over all her amiable weaknesses
long ago. "GentleI what are tigresses ?  Tender ! what is
a virago?  So far the man. Now for his mate.
Scarcely had her lord-" Mr. Thomas W.," as she was
wont to call him-gone out of the house, and slammed the
door behind him, at the same time giving vent to the last
bottle full of spleen distilled and concocted in his soul, than
"cMrs. Thomas W.," or poor Betsy Clark, as I prefer to call
her-for she was truly, really pitiable, for more reasons than
one, but mainly because she had, but would not exercise her
common sense sufficiently to make the best of a bad bar-
gain-threw herself upon the bed, where she cried a little,
and raved a good deal, to the self-same tune as of yore. Get-
ting tired of both these delightful occupations very soon, she
varied them by striking an attitude before a portrait of the
dear defunct-badly executed-the portrait, not the man,
whose name she bore when she became Mistress Thomas W.
This picture of a former husband Tomn Clark had not had the
courage or sense enough to put his foot through, but did have
bad taste sufficient to peruit it to hang up in the very room
where he liveit and ate, and where'its beauties were duly and
daily expatiated upon, and the virtues of its original lauded
to the skies, of course to the intense delight of Mr. Clark.
Madam had a tongue-a regular patent, venom-mounted
back-spring and double-actioned tongue, and, what is more,
knew well how to use it when the fit was on, which, to do

=t
. '3
_t
I
1
fY N
ja ^YC
±}3
' r-ru
1't
C
a
k
'a
i gy=p
L i;y
it
r_=
v:
f
k
i

her justice, was not more than twenty-three hours and a half
each day. Never did an opportunity offer that she did not
avail herself of to amplify the merits of the deceased, espe-
cially in presence of such visitors as chance or business
brought to their house, all to the especial delectation of ler
livig spouse, Mr. Thomas W. Clark.
Just look at her now ! There she is, kneeling at her
shrine, my lady gay, vehemently pouring forth the recital of
her wrongs--forgetful of any one else's, as usual with tl e
genus grumbler--dropping tears and maledictions, now on
her own folly, then on the devoted head of him she hal
promised to love, honor and obey. Mr. Clark, fruit-grow F.
farmer and horse-dealer. Exhausted at length. she winds up
the dramatic scene by invoking all the blessings of all the
saints in all the calendars on the soul of him whose coun-
terfeit presentment hung there upon the wall.
If this couple did not. absolutely hate each other, they
came so near it that a Philadelphia lawyer would have been
puzzled to tell t'other from which, and yet nobody but them-
selves had the least idea of the real state of things---these
undercurrents of married life that only occasionally breach
through and extensively display themselves in the presence
of third parties. In the very nature of the case, how absurd
it is for outsiders to presume to know the real status of
affairs-to comprehend the actual facts which exist behind,
the curtains of every or any married couple in the land. Hy-
men is a fellow fond of wearing all sorts of masks and dis-
guises; and it often happens that tons of salt exist where
people suppose nothing but sugar and lollypops are to be
found.
Tom and his wife-the latter, especially-pretended to a
vast deal of loving kindness, 0, how great, toward each
other-and they were wise-in the presence of other people.
You would have thought, had you seen them billing and
coo inglike a pair of "Turkle Doves"-to quote the "Bard
aldwinsville"-that there never was so true, so perfect a
union as their own; and would not have entertained the
shadow of a doubt but that they had been expressly- formed
for each other from the foundations of the world. if not be-
fore. No sooner did they meet--before folks, even after the
most trifling absence-than they mutually fell to kissing and
dearing," like two swains just mated, all of which made
fools wonder, but wise people to grieve. Physical manifesta-

' 3

I{3
I i 1 (taf
Fl j' 1
v   e    7;
it'llIt 1
ii a


24             THE ROsIcRUcIAN's STORY.
tions are not quite Love's methods ; and it is a safe rule that
those who most ape love externally, have less of it within-
and in private, so great a difference is there between Behind
and Before, in these matters of the heart, and people's eyes.
Billing and cooing before folks acts as a nauseant upon sen-
sible men and women, and in this case it did upon not a few
of the better class of the city of Santa Blarneeo, within a few
miles of which Clark lived,~and from which we sailed a few
days ago, you to go home, I to the Pyramids of Egypt, near
wh ch I am to meet a conclave of Oriental Rosicrucians as
soon as I get there.
Betsey Clark gave a last, long, lingering look at the por-
trait, saying the while: "Don't I wish you was' alive and
back here again, my love, niy darling, my precious duck?"
Lucky for him was it that such could not be; for had it been
possible, and actualized, he would have been finely plucked,
not to say roasted, stewed, perpetually broiled, and in every
way done brown. " If you were here, I should be happy,
because you was a man ; but this one (meaning Tom) bah !"
and the lady bounced upon her feet, and kicked the cat by way
of emphasis. She resumed: "I can't stand it, and I won't,
there ! that's flat! I'm still young, and some people of sense
tell me I am handsome-at least, good-looking. Pm certain
the glass does, and no doubt there are plenty who would glad-
ly link their lot with mine if he was only dead !" And she
shuddered as the fearful thought had birth. "Dead ! I wish_
he was ; and, true as I live, I've a great good mind to accom-
plish my wish!!"  And again she shuddered.. Poor woman,
,,he was indeed tempted of the devil ! As the horrible sugges-
tion flashed across the sea of her soul, it illumined many a
sleep chasinal abyss, of whose existence, up to that moment.
he had been utterly unaware. The human soul is a fearful
thing, especially when it stands bare before the Eternal Eye,
vith myriad snake-forms-its own abnormal creation, writh-
ng round and near it. A fearful thing ! And Betsey Clark
trembled in the ghastly presence of Uncommitted Murder,
whose glance of lurid flames set fire to her heart, and
: corched and seared it with consuming heat. Its flashful
light lasted but for a moment ; but even that was a world
too long, for it illumined all the dark caverns of her soul,
and disclosed to the horrified gaze of an aereal being which
that instant chanced to pass that way-an abyssmal deep of
Crime, Possibility so black and terrible, that it almost shriv-

THE ROSICRUOIAN'S STORY.            25
elled the eyeballs and shrouded the vision of the peerless
citizen of the upper courts of Glory.
Suddenly the radiant Ileavenborn ceased its flight through
the azure, looked pityingly earth and heavenward. heaved a
deep and soul-drawn sigh, and stayed awhile to gaze upon
the Woman and the Man.
Human nature is a very curious and remarkable institu-
tion ;'so is woman nature, only a great deal more so - espe-
cially that of the California persuasion-you Bet ! Still it
was not a little singular that Tom's wife's mind should have
engendered (of Hate and Impatience) the precise thought
that agitated his own at that very minute--that very identi-
cal crime-thought which had just rushed into being from the
deeps of his own spirit--twin monsters sibbilating "Mum--
der!" in both their ears.
There is as wonderful a sympathy between opposites and
antagonists, indeed far greater, than between similarities-
as strong attractions between opposing souls as in those fash-
ioned in the same mould. True, this affirmation antagonizes
many notions'among current philosophies and philosophers ;
but it is true, notwithstanding, and, therefore, so much the
worse for the philosophers.
The same fearful thought troubled the waters of two souls
at the same time, and each determined to do a little private
killing on their own individual and separate accounts. As
yet, however, only the designs existed. The plans were yet
crude, vague, immature, and only the crime loomed up indis-
tinctly, like a grim, black mountain through a wintry fog.
The day grew older by twelve hours, but when the sunset
came, ten years had fastened themselves upon the brows of
both the Woman and the Man since last they had parted at
rosy morn. Bad thoughts are famous for making men grow
old before the weight of years has borne them earthward ;
they wrinkle the brow and bring on decrepitude, senility
and gray hairs, faster than Time himself can possibly whirl
bodies graveward. The rolling hours and the circling years
are less swift than evil thoughts of evil doing. Right doing,
innocence, and well-wishing make us young ; bad thoughts
rob us of youth, vivacity and manhood ! Let us turn to Mr.
and Mrs. Thomas W.:
Night was.on the mountain,
Darkness in the valley,
And only stars could guide them now
In the doubtful rally.

' fA
L         'r J
t4

. ilV
a'
1
Y^i
'f
?i
ii
E   Y
.
.3
_ , i
[g wg
F  " +!
'rah
4
:
pp
".K
y
ua
i
4 i'
i
'
w
r a
a ,V
t


of             TUE RoSICRUcIAN'S STORY.
There was a star hung out in the sky, and she had already
determined to watch their destinies ; with what success,
and in what manner, will be apparent before finishing my
story-every word of which is true in one sense, if not pre-
cisely in another.
The sun had set, and slowly the moon was uprising--
blessed Moon! -God's Left Eye, wherewith He at night over-
looketh the thoughts and deeds of solitary men and solitary
women - for only such are capable of crime--those only who
a ad live 'alone-and many such there are, even at their
w-n firesides, surrounded by their own families, own [llesh,
own blood- fathers, mothers, wives (as times go), bus-
lands (as they are conventionally called). Many there be
who exist in dreadful solitudes in the very midst of human
crowds-who live alone and pass through life, from the era-
die to the grave, perfect strangers, perfect hermits, wholly
unknowing, totally unknown  like interlopers on the globe,
whose very right to be here all the world disputes. Friends,
I have seen many such-have you'? These lonely people,
these exotics, these insulars in the busy haunts of men (the
teeming hives of commerce) -alone in earth's well-paced
market-towns --in the very saturnalia of TRADE's gala days;
and they are to be pitied, because they all have human,
yearning hearts, filled to the brim with great, strangling
sorrows ; and they have high and holy aspirations, only that
the world chokes them down-crushes out the pure, sweet
life God gave them. These are the Unloved ones; yet ought
not to he, for are they not somebody's sons and daugh-
ters'?  Yes ! Then they have rights ; and the first, greatest,
highest right-of all is the right of being loved-loved by the
people of the land - our world-cousins, for what we do, are
doing, or have done; and to be loved, for the sake of the dear
soul within, by somebody else's son or daughter.
So think we of the Rosicrucian Order ; so one day will
think the world without the Temple. In a book of mine,
called " Dealings with the Dead," lately printed, I have given,
under a thin veil, so much of our philosophy as the times de-
manded. and as our Grand Council permitted, on the topic
just touched upon.
At this point of the Rosicrucian's narrative, Capt. Jones,
one of his auditory, interrupted him with:
-'Why, I thought the Rosicrucian system had been dead
buried, and forgotten two centuries ago!"

THE ROsICRUIAN8S sTORv.
He replied : "The false or pseudo-Rosicrticiaii systemha
ceased to be. Truth herself is deathless. Icanno now stop
to explain what interests you concerning the revived system
ofmRosicrucianism. I can only refer you to works by living
members of the august Fraternity : 1st. Concerning the Na-
tu  o M  r  F, Apparitions. and the Human Soul,
insult Curious Things of the Outside World,' by Har-
grave Jennings. 2d. Concerning the revived Order, consult
'The Rosicruejms  who and what they are,' by a Builder
of the Temple -3d. Concerning their Medical System, and
cures for all distew'ic   'a t, The Grand Secet'y4h.'o
cerning the Iutnaes P"sit ' eGadSecret.' 4th. Con-
ceers   d t  human Passions, the true nature of love. its
fevers and its chills-Love, Health and Disease--consult
t Physical Love, or the Grand Secret Revealed.' 5th. For
thestory of the soul before and after death, consult 'elal-
htte Dead, and my pamphlet upon the mols
All Rithts Eathoy. 6th. For the story of the Human Rae
on this Earth one hundred thousand years before the days of
Adammconsult  Pre-Adante Man.' 7th. For the true story
the  Upper Worlds, and Man's Career after Death, consult
tesequel tothe 'Dealings                 entitedt'Th
i  Roicruia  1. e ingswiththeDead,' entitled ' The
Roeacrucian; hi Adventures, Earthly and Unearthly; his
Dealings with the Living, the )ead, and those who Never
Die;' by the Son of Flora - This last book relates to the
Human Soul-its origin, nature and destiny, on the earth and
off it. You will now Please allow me to proceed with my
said he, and then resumed where he had been inter
"I said, and now repeat, that only those who live lone,
unloved, unloving, are they who, becoming mob    having
all their kidly feelings driven hack upon themselves, daily
hourly eating up their own hearts--brood over their -1oN.
their social and other misfortunes-at length cevnd  e (J
if not against their fellow men, then a  I thmselves.
0, for something to love, and he loved by. if but a little
wet  o. These    loved   are wrecked, the unloving evc:'
wreck others. It cs sweet to be loved by eveli a dumb
brute! But ah, how inexpressibly, how infinitely better to
be endeared for-your..:'lif ;: one. for your integral wealth of
soul, by a Man- a full true Man; by a Woman, a full gush-
This work is out of type, bt will  e issued the present year. For thrill
ing interest it surpasses any work yet written by its author.


28

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

ing heart of Woman ; or sweeter, dearer still-a child, some
glorious hero of a hobby-horse, some kitten-torturing Cora!
Ah ! what a chord to touch. I am very fond of children-
dear little godlings of the hour. Those who reciprocate af
section truly, are too full of God to keep a devil's lQdging-house.
It is a dear thing to feel the great truth-one of .osicrucia's
truths-that nothing is more certain than that somewhere,
perhaps on earth, perhaps in some one of the innumerable
aromal worlds-star-spangles on God's diadem-or from
amidst the mournful monodies in material creation-some
one loves us, and that there goeth up a prayer. sweet-toned
as seraph-harps, to Him for you, my weary brother, for you,
my sister of the dark locks turning prematurely grey :
'-Oh the little birds sing east, and the little birds sing west,
Toll slowly.
And I smile to think God's greatness flows around our incom-
pleteness,
Round our restlessness his rest."
Somebody loves us for ourselves' sake. Thank God for
that !
And the pale, silver shield of the moon hung out in the
radiant blue, and myriad gods looked down through starry
eyes upon this little world, as it floated, a tiny bubble
on space's vast ocean ; and they spake through their eyes,
and bade us all love the Supreme, by loving one another ;
and they said, "Love much !"   Such is the whole duty
of man. The moon, God's night-eye. takes note of all ye
do, and is sometimes forced to withdraw behind cloud-veils.
that ye may not behold her sweet features while she weeps
at the sad spectacle of thy wrong doing !  Luna, gentle
Luna, does not like to peer down into our souls, and there
behold the slimy badness, which will ere long breed deeds of
horror to make her lovely face more pale-things which dis-
figure the gardens of man's spirit, and transform them into(
tangled brakes, where only weeds and unsightly things do
grow. And Luna has a recording angel sitting on her shield,
whose duty is to flash all intelligence up to his deifie brain,
in whose service she hath ever been. He is just, inexorably
just, ever rewarding as man sinneth or obeys. And so it i
poor policy to sin by night. It is equally so to sin by day;
for then the Sun-God's Right Eye-fails not to behold us, for
he is always shining, and his rays pierce the clouds and

r .
t
.:.
r-
'

THE ROSICRUCIAN's STORY.

29

;a
^  V
rjl
yN i
^3
ih#

light up the world, even though thick fogs and dense clouds
conceal his radiant countenance. He sees man, though we
behold him not ; and he photographs all human thoughts
and deeds upon the very substance of the soul, and that so
well and deeply, that no optimism will destroy the picture.
or overlay it with success; no sophistical " All Right" lave-
ments can wash away, no philosophic bath destroy. They
are indellible, these sun pictures on the spirit, and they are,
some of them, very unsightly things to hang in the grand
Memory- Galleries of the imperishable human soul ; for, in
the coming epochs of existence, as man moves down the cor-
ridors of Time, these pictures will still hang upon the walls.
and if evil, will peer down sadly and reproachfully, and
fright many a joy away, when man would fain be rid, but
cannot, of pain-provoking- recollections, and longs vainly to
be at rest and peace in the soul-world, when his body shall
be stranded on the shores of the grave, and his spirit is be-
mg wafted over strange and mystic seas, on the farther brink
of Time ! Such were the teachings of the myriad starry
eyes..-.-.-. .         Night, as before remarked, had
come down, and Mr. and Mistress Thomas W. had, after the
fatigues of the day, retired to bed, each with thoughts of
murder rankling in their hearts. Not a word was spoken,
but they lay with throbbing pulses, gazing out upon the
night, through a little window at the foot of the bed, for its
upper sash was down. Gazing out upon the starry lamps
that skirt the highways of the sky, beacons of safety placed
there to recall and guide all stray and wandering souls back
on their way to Heaven ! And silently looked at the stars as
they twinkled and shimmered in the azure. The stars shone
and strange, horrible, ghastly thoughts agitated the woman
and the man. "Tom    might get sick, and he might die.'
Isn't it possible to feed him with a little arsenic, or some
other sort of poison, and not get caught at it? I think it
iS. He, once dead, I shall be free-free as the air, and happy
as the birds!"  Happyy! Think of it !
"Is it not possible to push Betsey over the cliff; 'cciden-
tally of course, and thus rid myself of her and misery
together, and forever !" Forever ! Picture it! And thus
they lay as the night wore on, two precious immortal souls,
with rank Murder for a bedfellow.
At the end of an hour's cogitation, both had reached the


30             THE ROSICRUCIAN's STORY.
desperate resolution to carry their wishes into execution.
and attempt the fearful crime.
Conie down in thy profoundest gloom-
Without one radiant firefly's light,
Beneath thine ebon arch entomb
Earth from the gaze of Heaven, 0 Night.
A deed of darkness must be done,
Put out the moon, roll back the snan.
Betsey was to " season" Tom's coffee ; he was very fond
of coffee. Tom was to treat Betsey to a ride in a one-horse
shaky, and topple the shay, horse, and Mrs. Thomas W.-
all except his mother's only son-over a most convenient and
inviting little precipice, a trifle over four hundred feet deep,
with boulders at the bottom rathe- thicker than autumn
leaves in Vallambrossa, and a good deal harder. All thi.
was to be the result of ''accident." and  inscrutible Provi-
dence," as a matter of course. Afterward he was to buy a
" slashing suit" of mourning.,bury what was left of her in
grand style. erect a fine headstone of marble, announcing
that-
a The Lord gave. and the ford tol  e iw
Ble.sed be the name of the Lorde-
-an inscription many a spouse would like to read in their
own cases. . . . . The proposed locality of the fall of
woman, "luckily" lay right on the road between their house
and Santa Blarneeo. Each thought, 'I" may not be able to
achieve the exploit upon which 1 am bent, but one thing is
certain, which is that it shall not fail for want of trying.
Once fairly accomplished, freedom comes, and then for a
high old time !" So thought the woman ; so thought the
man. . .' . . Night has various and strange influences,
which are altogether unknown to the day. The Magi, on
.the plains of Chaldea, the astrologers of early Egypt, and
the whole ancient world duly acknowledged the power of'
the astral bodies. The whole interest of Bulwer's Zanoni
hinges on the soul-expanding potentiality of a star upon
Clarence Glyndon, one of the heroes of that Rosicrucian
story. Indeed the whole august fraternity, from the neo-
phyte of last week, to Ross and Henri More, down to Appo-
lonius of Tyana, and away through the Ages to Thothmes,
and down beyond all the Egyptian dynasties to Zytos, and
still away into the very heart of the Pre-Adamite Eras, we

THE ROSICIl cIANS STORY.           31
know held strange doctrines concerning stars; and if the
historian of the Order, the great Mirandolo, be not mistaken,
our Brotherhood possesses the key that reveals the nature
(f the seven influences, and how they may b'e gained. Of
my own knowledge--for I am but in the fifth degree, there-
fore do not know all these mysteries-there are Destinies in
the stars. Well, on this particular night the star known as
lHesper, she of the pale mild eye was looking straight into
the room where lay the precious lovely pair, and it shone
through the little window at the foot of the bed. The night
was sultry-a little window--summer was in the ascendant
and the upper sash was down. Remember this, the upper
sash was down .    . .   . .   And now a strange thing
occurred, a very strange and mysterious thing. Just as Tom
Clark and his wire had been magnetized into a sortof restless
sleep from gazing at the star-an uneasy, disturbed, nervous,
but dreamless sleep-as if a heavy, thick and murky cloud
just floated off a stagnant marsh, there descended upon the
roof(f the house a pestilent, slimy mist, and it gathered
over and about the roof; and it entered, rolling heavily, into
the chamber, costing through that little window at the foot of
the bed, the little window whose upper sash was down. It
was a thick, dense, iron-greyish mist. approaching blackness
only that there was a sort of turgid redness, not a positive
color, but as if it had floated over the depths of hell, and
caught a portion of its infernal luminosity. And it was thick
and dark, and dense and very heavy ; and it swept and rolled
and poured into the room in thick, voluminous masses-into
the very room, and about the couch where tossed in uneasy
slumber the woman and the man. And it filled the apart-
ment, and hung like a pall about their couch ; and its fetor
oppressed their senses; and it made their breath come thick,
and difficult, and wheezing from their lungs. It was dread-
ful! And their breath mingled with the strange vapor,
apparently endowing it with a kind of horrid life, a sort of
semi-sentience ; and gave it a very peculiar and fearful move-
ment--orderly, systematic, gyratory. pulsing, movement-
the quick sharp breath of the woman, the deep and heavy
breath of the man. And it had come through the window
at the foot of the bed, for the upper sash was down.
Slowly, and with regular, spiracular, wavy motion, with
gentle undulations, like the measured roll of the calm Pacific
Sea, the gentle sea on which I am sailing toward the Pyra-


32

TiRE ROSICRUCIAN's STORY.

maids and my Cora--six years old, and so pretty ! Pyramids
six thousand years old, anl so grand ! Like the waves of
that -sea did the cloud begin to move gyrally around bute
chamber, hanging to the curtains, clinging to the wails ,bu
as if dreading the moonlight, carefully avoiding the window
through which it had come the little window at the foot of
the bed-whose upper sash was down.          .  . Soon.
very soon, the cloud commenced to change the axis of its move-
ments, and began to condense into a large globe of iron-hued
nebulas ; and it began a contrary revolution; and it floated
thus, and swam like a dreadful destiny over the unconscious
sleepers on the bed, after which it moved to the western side
or end of the room, and became nearly stationary in an angle
of the wall, where for a while it stood or floated, silent, ap-
palling, almost motionless, changeless, still: At the end of
about six minutes it moved again, and in a very short time
assumed the gross, but unmistakable outline of a gigantic
human form-an outline horrible, black as night, frowning
human form-cut not sharply from the vapor, but still dis-
tinctly human in its slapeness-but very imperfect, except
the head, which was too frightfully complete to leave even a
lingering doubt but that some black and hideous deviltry was
at work in that little chamber ; and IT had entered through
the window at the foot of the bed-the little window, whose
upper sash was down. "And the head was infamous, horr-
le, gurgonic ; and its glare was terrible, infernal, blasting,
ghastly-perfectly withering in its expression, proportions,
and its aspect. The THING, this pestilent thing was bearded
with the semblance of a mass-a tangled mass of coarse grey
iron wire. Its hair was as a serried coil of thin, long, venom-
laden, poison-distilling snakes. The nose, mouth, chin and
brows were simply ghastly, and its sunken cheeks were those
of Famine intensified. The face was flat and broad, its lips
the lips of incarnate hate and lust combined. Its color was
the greenish blue of corpses on a summer battle-field, suffused
with the angry k'edness of a demon's spite, while its eyes--
-great God !-Its eye-for there was but one, and that one
in the very centre of its forehead, between the nose and brow
-was bloodshot and purple, gleaming with infernal ligh
and it glamored down with more than fiendish malignance
upon the woman and the man. . . .   .-Nothing        .t
this Thing was clearly cut or defined, except the head-tst
hideous, horrible head. Otherwise it was incomplete-a

THE ROSIcRUcIAN'S STORY.
sort of spectral Formlessness. It was unfinished as was th
awful crime-thought that brought it into being. It was on
one side apparently a male, on the other it looked like a
female ; but, taken as a whole, IT. was neither man nor wo-
man, IT was neither brute nor human, but IT was a monster
and a ghoul-born on earth of human parents. There are
many such things stalking our streets, and invisibly presid-
mg over festal scenes, in dark cellars, by the lamp, in the
cabinet and camp; and many such are daily peering down
upon the white paper on the desks where sit grave and solemn
Ministers of State, who, for Ambition's sake and greed of gold,
play with an Empire's destiny as children do with toys, and
who, with the stroke of a pen, consign vast armies to bloody
graves-brave men, glorious hosts, kept back while victory
is possible-kept back till the foeman has dug their graves
just in front of their own stone walls and impenetrable ram-
parts-and then sent forward to glut the ground with human
blood. Do you hear me, Ministers of State? I mean you !
you who practically regard men's lives as boys regard the
minnows of a brook. I mean you, who sit in high places,
and do murder by the wholesale-you who treat the men as
half foes, half friends, tenderly-whose hands are griped with
the iron grip of death around the Nation's throat-the Na-
tion's throat-do you hear ?-and crushing out the life that
God and our fathers gave it. Remember the Irish Brigade !
Forget not Fredericksburg ! and bear in mind that this gor-
gon of your own creation will not quit you. day or night-
not even on your dying day, when it will hiss into your ears,
"Father, behold, embrace me !"-and its slime will fall upon
and choke you, as you have choked our country ; and the
sheeted ghosts of six hundred thousand heroes, slaughtered
by a whim, will mournfully upbraid, and-perhaps-forgive
you. Will the weeping widows and the countless orphans-
pale, blue-cast women, pale with grief, blue with want ; or-
phans, poor little shriveled, half-starved orphans-will they
forgive you ? will your own conscience ? will the Eternal
God of Heaven'? Why did you sacrifice these six hundred
thousand men ? Why did you not put your guns and swords
m the hands of six hundred thqtisand men-men who had
God's best gifts to fight for and maintain-Liberty and their
wives ?-Black men too-brawny, brave, strong-hearted,
Freedom-nerved, God-inspired  Black  mei.  No  black
man yet- ever sold his country ! Why don't you first
2


34

THE nOsICRUCIAN'S STORY.

remove the chains-here in the North ?      Why don't
you bid them rise, be men, and then-Victory will perch
upon your banners. See ! yonder is a plain, miles in extent.
In its center stands a lone and solitary man, and his hands
are tied ! His occupation has been that of a Path-Finder ;
his name is Fremont, and there is more magnetic power in
that single name than in a thousand Ministers of State-
and such will be History's record, when she hands you down
the ages ! Well, go and cut the cords that bind him, and let
him say through the empty air, " Black Man, come with me
to Victory ! Let us save the Nation !" and the swift wmds
will bear the sound on lightning pinions from pole to pole ;
from sea to sea ; and from hovel, hut and palace will come a
throng, a fearful host, shouting, "Fremont and Victory !"
Over the seas will come troops, and they will fill that empty
plain, and before their battle-cry will go down the hearts of
those who now laugh at you, Minister of State-laugh at
you, and blaspheme God and Human Right ! Think of these
things, 0 Ministers. . . .  . And so this fearful specter
in Tom Clark's room had its origin then and there-had been
created by the morning's wicked thought-a creature fash-
ioned by their human wills, and drawing its vitality from their
life and pulses-drawing its very soul from out those two
beating human hearts. Tell me not that I am painting a
picture limning the creature of a distorted fancy. I know
better,'you know better, we all know that just such hideous
creatures, just such monstrosities move, viewless, daily, up
and down the crowded streets of Santa Blarneeo, up and
down the streets of the Empire City and Puritanic Boston ;
but there are crowds of them in Pennsylvania Avenue, and
they wear phantom epaulettes upon their spectral shoulders!-
You and I know that just such and other
Monstrous, horrid things that creep
From out a slimy sea,

exist all over the land-but principally in high, places, begot-
ten of Treason and lust of Gold. This fact I knew before, for
we of the TRINE comprehend these mysteries; but I learned
it again, by a process not to be revealed, from the very lips,
the fiery lips of the Thing there standing on the floor-there
standing and scowling on the sleeping contemplators of
Crit"e.
Soon the lip; began to move ; it spoke :°Faether ! Mother!

r ;
-
?
;,s
.~
f
.
;_
'
s
'
i
u,
r

-Im n"ROsICRUCAN  wr'oN Ti.         35
I am yet weai ; be quick; make me strong! feed ine;  am
hungry ; give me blood-hot streams-great gouts of blood.!
I t is well.  Kill, poison, (lie - it is well.  Ha ! ha ! It
is well ; ho ! ho !" and then the Thing began to dissolve
into a filmy mist, until at last only the weight of its presence
was felt, for it floated invisibly but heavily through the
room, and, except the gleam-the fiery gleam of its solitary
eye, nothing else of it was discernible. . . . Ten minutes
elapsed after it had found voice, and faded away, when sud-
denly a fleecy cloud that had for some time past obscured
the sky in the direction of Hesper, shutting out. her silvery
smiles, broke away, and permitted her beams and those of
the moon to once more enter the chamber and flood it with a
sheeted silver glory-the room where still lingered the hate-
ful thing. and where still slept the woman and the man-the
light broke in and flooded the room through the little window
at the foot of the bed, whose upper sash was down. Simul-
taneous with this auspicious event there came sighing over
the landscape, the musical notes of such a song as only
seraphs sing--came over the wastes like the mystical bells
that I have heard at sunset often while sailing on the Nile-
mystical bells which thousands have heard, and marveled
at--soft bells, silvery bells, church bells-bells, however, not
rung by human hands. I have often heard them chiming
over Egypt's yellow, arid sands, and I believe they are rung
by angel hands on the other side of Time. And such a
sound, only sweeter, came floating o'er the lea, and through
the still air into the little chamber. Was it a call to the
angels to join in prayer-midnight prayer, for the sinful
souls of men ?  But it came. Low it was, and clear; pure
it was, and full of saintly pity, like unto the dying cadence
of the prayer that was prayed by the Sufferer on the stony
heights of Calvary ; that same Calvary where I have stood
within a year, 'midst devout lovers of their Lord, and the
jeering scoffs of Mussulmans ! And the music came-so
sweetly, as if 'twould melt the stony heart of Crime itself.
And it proclaimed itself the overture of another act of the
eventful drama then and there performing. And see ! look
there ! the curtain rises. Woman, Man, behold ! Alas !
they slumber insensibly on. Gaze steadily at that upper
sash-above it--for it is down; see, the clear space is again
obscured by a cloud ; but this time it is one of silver, lined
with burnished gold, and flecked and edged with amethyst


THE ROSICRUCIAN1S STORY.

and opal. Look again ! What is that at the window ? It is
T       a visible music-a glorious sheet of silvery vapor, bright,
clear, and glittering as an angel's conscience ! It is a broad
and glowing mantle of woven gossamer, suffused with rose-
blushes, and sprinkled with starbeams ; and it. like the other,
flows through the space, and streams into the chamber,
bathing all things in holy, tremulous light, soft, sweet,
balmy, and pure as the tears of virgin innocence weeping for
the early dead ! That light ! It was just such a light as
beamed from your eyes, Woman-beamed from out your soul
when, after your agony, your eye first fell upon the angel
you had borne-the man-child whom God gave to your heart
a little while ago ; just such a light as flashed fitfully from
your soul, and fell upon the cradle, -0 father, of the strong
and hopeful heart, wherein the little stranger lay ; just such
light as beamed from your eyes, in pride, and hope, and
strange, deep prophecies, as you bent over her languishing
form, heartfully pressing her first-born to her dear woman's
bosom, when you looked so tenderly, kindly, lovingly down
through her eyes, imto her spirit-the true heart beating for
you and it, beneath folded-contentedly folded, arms-con--
tented, too, through all the deep anguish, such, 0 man, as
only a woman and a mother can undergo. That light ! It
was like that which fell upon the babe she had given you,
and the great Man-wanting world-given first for its com-
ing uses, and then to Him, who doeth all things very well-
well, even when He taketh the best part of our souls away,
and transplants the slips in His eternal and infinite gar-
dens, across the deep dark gulfs that hide the dead ; just such
a light as gleamed from her eyes and thine own, when your
hearts felt calm and trustful once more, after the great, deep
grief-billows had rolled 'over them-grief for the loss of
one who stayed but a little while on earth-all too coarse
and rough for her-some little cooing Winny-like mine-
whose soul nestles afar off, on His breast, in the blue sky,
and whose body they laid in the cold grave, there in Utica,
while I ,was on the deep-winsome Winnie! child of my
soul, gone, lost, but not forever !-just such a light played in
that little room as stream from angel eyes when God takes
back at the hands of Azrael and Sandalphon, the beautiful
angels of Death and of Prayer, the things you had learned to
love too well-to forgetfulness of God and all true human
duty. But they will give back what they took: they will

36

t"
@ ;.
I . f
f
.  ,,
' 'n
'-a
;
^
;x
_'
.:
r k
i =
[s
e
i
. {+
.
s y:
}
.* St
r R
y'i
aft
C
h
-r
w
74
w
tl

give back all, in the clear sunshine of a brighter and a purer
day than these earthly ones of ours ! .... And the light
streamed through and into the chamber where lay the woman
and the man ; and it radiated around, and bathed every ob-
ject in a crystallic luminescence ; and it carried a sadness
with it--just such a sadness as we feel when parting from
those who love us very well ; as I felt on the day I parted
from my Trinius-Brother of my soul ! when we parted at
the proud ship's side-the ocean courser, destined to bear me
over the steaming seas to visit Egypt's hoary shrines. It
bore a sadness with it, like unto that which welled up from
my soul, tapping the fountains of friendship--and tears upon
its way, in the memorable hour wherein I left the Golden
Gate, and began my perilous journey to the distant Orient-
across the bounding seas. What an hour !-that wherein
our bodies move away, but leave our sorrowing souls be-
hind ! Well, a holy light, sadness-bearing light like this
now rested on the bodies of the sleeping pair. At first, this
silvery radiance filled the room, and then the fleecy vapor
began to condense slowly. Presently it formed into a rich
and opalescent cloud-column, which speedily changed into
a large globe, winged, radiant and beautiful. Gradually there
appeared in the centre of this globe a luminous spot, monien-
tarily intensifying its brilliance, until it became like unto a
tiny sun, or as the scintilla; of a rare diamond when all the
lamps are brightly shining. Slowly, steadily, the change
went on in this magic crystal globe, until there appeared
within it the diminutive figure of a female, whose outlines
became more clear as time passed on, until, at the end of a
few minutes, the figure was perfect, and stood fully revealed
and complete--about eighteen inches high, and lovely-ah,
how lovely !--that figure ; it was more than woman is-was
all she may become-petite, but absolutely perfect in form,
feature and expression ; and there was a love-glow radiating
from her presence sufficiently melting to subdue the heart of
Sin itself, though robed in*Nova Zembla's icy shroud. Her
eyes !---ah, her eyes !-they were softer than the down upon
a ring-dove's breast-not electric, not magnetic-such are
human eyes; and she was not of this earth-they were some-
thing more, and higher-they were tearful, anxious, solicit-
ous, hopeful, tender, beaming with that snowy love which
blessed immortals feel. Her hair was loose, and hung in
flowing waves adown her pearly neck and shoulders. Such

TIDE ROSICRUOIAN)S STORY.

37


38          THE ROSCIUCiAN'S cTOW'v.

a neck and shoulders !-polished alabaster, dashed with orange
blossoms, is a very poor comparison; it would be better to
say that they resembled petrified light, tinted with the morn-
ing blush of roses ! Around her brow was a coronet of burn-
ished, rainbow hues ; or rather the resplendent tints of polar-
ized light. In its center was the insignia of the Supreme Tern
pie of the Rosie Cross-a circle inclosing a triangle-a censer
on one side, a foul-anchor on the other, the centerpiece being a
winged globe, surmounted by the sacred trine, arid based
by the: watchword of the Order, "Tav," the whole being
arched with the blazon, "Rostcne1uA." To attempt a minute
description of this peerless fay, on my part, would be mad-
ness:--her chin, her mouth, her bust, her lips ! No ! 1 ani
not so vain as to make the essay. I ;ay be equal to such a
task a century or two f  a this, but am not equal to it now ;
besides which, we m;t get en a little faster with our
story. . . . There, fiti. and thus stood the crowned beauty
of the Night, garing- down with looks of pity upon the rest-
less occupants of that humble couch; for during all these
transactions they had been asleep. She stood there, the reali-
zation and embodiment of Light ; and there, directly facing
her, glowered, and floated the eye of that hateful, scowl-
ing, frowning Thing-scowling with malignant joy upon the
woman and the man. Thus stood the Shadow: thus stood
the Light. But soon there came a change o'er the spirit of
the scene ; for now an occurrence took place of a character
quite as remarkable as either of those already recounted ; for
in a very short time after the two Mysteries had assumed
their relative positions, there came through the window-
the same little window at the foot of the bed-the tall and
stately figure of a man-a tall and regal figure. but it was
light and airy-buoyant as a summer cloud pillowed on the
air-the figure of a man, but not solid, for it was translucent
as the pearly dew, radiant as the noontide sun, majestic as a
lofty mountain when it wears a snowy crown !-the royal
form of a man, but evidently not a ghost, or wraith, or a
man of these days, or of this earth, or of the ages now
elapsing. He was something more than man; he was supra-
mortal ; a bright and glorious citizen of a starry land of
glory, whose gates I beheld, once upon a time, when Lara
bade me wait ; he was of a lineage we Rosicrucians wot of.
and only we !-a dweller in a wondrous city, affr off, real.
actual-whose gates are finest pearl-whose streets are paved

4

Iy
E
Y-A

39

with sunbeams, so bright and beautiful are they. ' Ah, I will
tell you more of this city by-and-by-when I write again.
At present I am resting in the Hall of Silence ! . . . . The
stately figure advanced midway of the room, until he occu-
pied the center of a triangle formed by the Shadowy Thing,
the female figure, and the bed; and then he waved his hand,
in which was a staff or truncheon-winged at top and bot-
tom; and he spake, saying :
, I, Otanethi, the Genius of the Temple, Lord of the Hour
Protector of the Wandering Man, and Servant of the Dome,
am sent hither to thee, 0, Hesperina, Preserver of the Fall-
ing ; and to thee, dark Shadow, and to these poor blind
gropers in the Night and Gloom. I am sent to proclaim the
will of the Omniarch; and, in his name I proclaim that man
ever reacheth Ruin or Redemption through himself alone-
strengthened by Love of him-self-sought-reacheth either
pole of Possibility as he, fairly warned, and therefore fully
armed, may elect: Poor, weak man !-a giant, knowing not
his own tremendous power !-Master, both of Circumstance
and the World-yet the veriest slave to either !-weak, but
only through ignorance of himself !-forever and forever fail-
ing in life's great race, through slenderness of Purpose !-
through Feebleness of Will ! Virtue is not virtue which
cones not of Principle within-that comes not of will and
aspiration. That abstinence from wrong is not virtue which,
results from external pressure-fear of what the speech of
people may effect ! It is false-that virtue which, requires
bolstering or propping up, and falls when left to try its
strength alone ! Vice is not vice, but weakness, that springs
not from within-which is the effect of applied force. Real
vice is that which leaves sad marks upon the soul's escutch-
eon, which the waters of an eternity may not lave away or
wash out ; and it comes of settled purpose-from within, and
is the thing of Will. The virtue that has never known
temptation--and withstood it, counts but little in the great
Ledger of the Yet to Be ! True virtue is good resolve, better
thinking, and action best of all! That man is but half com-
pleted whom the world has wholly made. They are never;
truly made who fail to make themselves ! Mankind are not
of the kingdom of the Shadow, nor of the glorious realm off
Light, but are born, move along, and find their highest de--
velopment in the path which is bounded on either side by

TIlE    oiiSCijcrAN b    5'i'odv.

38


40             THE ROSICRIoIANs STORY.
those two eternal Diversities-the Light upon this side-the
Shadow upon that:-
"The road to man and womanhood lies in the mean:
Discontent on either side-happiness between.
" Life is a triangle, and it may be composed of Sorrow,
Crime, Misery ; or Aspiration, Wisdom, Happiness. These,.
0 peerless Hesperina, are the lessons I am sent to teach.
Thou art here to save two souls, not from loss, assailings or
assoilings from without, but from the things engendered of
morbid thought-monstrous things bred in the cellars of the
soul-the cesspools of the spirit-crime-caverns where are.
engendered moral newts and toads, unsightly things and
hungry, ever devouring the flowers that chance-to spring up.
in the heart-gardens of man-pretty flowers, wild-but
which double and enhance in beauty and aroma from culti-
vation and care. We are present-I to waken the wills of
yonder pair; thou to arouse a healthy purpose and a normal
action; and the Shadow is here to drag them to Perdition.
Man cannot reach Heaven save by fearlessly breasting the
waves of Hell! Listen ! Thou mayest not act directly upon
the woman or the man, but are at liberty to effect thy pur-
pose through the instrumentality of DREAM ! And thou,"
addressing the Thing, " thou,'grim Shadow-Angel of Crime
-monstrous offspring of man's begetting-thou who art
permitted to exist, art also allowed to flourish and batten on
human hearts, I may not prevent thee-dare not openly
frustrate thee-for thus it is decreed. Thou must do thy
work. Go; thou art free and unfettered. Do thy worst;
but I forbid thee to appear as thou really art-before their
waking senses, lest thy horrible presence should strike them
dumb and blind, or hurl Will and Reason from their thrones.
Begone ! To thy labor, foul Thing, and do thy work also
through the powerful-instrumentality of DREAM !"
Thus spoke the genius of the Order and the Hour; and
then, turning him toward the couch, he said, yearningly,
with tearful mien and outstretched arms: "Mortals, hear
me in thy slumber-let thy souls, but not thy senses, hear
and understand. Behold, I touch thee with this magic wand
of Rosicrucia, and with it wake thy sleeping wills-thus do
I endow thee with the elements, Attention, Aspiration, Per-
sistence-the seeds of Power-of resistless Might, which,

A
'e
I}

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.             41
will-if such be thy choice, enable thee to realize a
moral fortress, capable of defying thecombined assaults of
all the enginery Circumstance can bring to bear against thee.
The citadel is Will. Entrenched within it, thou art safe.
But beware of turning thy assaulting power against thyselves.
Will, normal, ever produceth Good: Abnormal, it hurls thee
to the Bad! Remember ! Wake not to the external life,
but in thy slumber seize on the word I whisper in thisN
ears ; it is a magic word-a mighty talisman, more potent
than the seal of Solomon-more powerful than the Chal-
(lean's wand-but, like these things, is potential for Ill as for
Good. See to it, therefore, that it is wisely used. The word
is, 'TRY!' As thou shalt avail thyselves of its power, so
be it unto thee. I now leave thee to thy fate, and the for-
tunes that may befall thee. Two Dreams each shalt tho-
have this night ; one of them shall be overruled by thy good,
the other by thy evil genius. God help thee I Farewell !"
and in another instant the tall and stately figure passed
through the moonlight out upon the deep bosom of the
Night; and he floated, accompanied by the same soft music
heard before, away off into the blue empyrean ; and he
passed through the window-the little window at the foot of
the bed, whose upper sash was down.


THE EOSICRUCIANS STORv.

THE MAGIC SPELL.
In the Kingdom o [iream strange thoigs are asec,
And the Fate or the Nations are there, I weeu.
-Prom Ravakl/te, a 1%*
THE regal being was scarcely gone from the chamber ere
Hesperina and the Shadow-which had once more become
horribly visible, approached the sleeping pair-drew nigh
unto the woman and the man; and the Fay gently breathed
upon their heads, as if to establish a magnetic rapport be-
tween herself and them. She then calmly took her stand
near the bedside, and folded her beautiful arms across her
still more beautiful bosom-and awaited the action of the
tempter. She had not long to wait, for straightway the
black Presence advanced, and hovered over the bed-hovered
scowlingly over them, glaring down into their souls, as doth
the vampyre upon the man she would destroy-the spirit of
Wrong, peering wishfully at all beautiful things, and true!
Such was the posture of affairs ; and thus they remained
until the Thing had also established some sort of connection
with the sleepers. It soon became evident, from their ner-
vous; uneasy movements and postures, that the twain were
rapidly crossing the mystic boundaries that divide our own
from Dream-land--that they were just entering the misty mid-
region,-the Shadow, the Thing,the monstrous IT, ruling
te hour, and guiding them through-that strange realm -n
}That lioti ruh:ime, ot of Spaceg n out or Tims.

THE DmTmA M OF THONAS W.
The man who says that dreams are figments, is a fool.
Half of our nightly experiences are, in their subsequent
effects upon us, far more real and positive than our daily life
of wakefulness. Dreams are, as a general thing, save in rare
instances sneered at by the wise ones of this sapient age.
Events, we of the Temple, hold, are pre-acted in other
spheres of being. Prophetic dreaming is no new thing.
Circumstances are constantly occurring in the outer life,
er

42

II

y
=s
E  tJv
c  1
t i
z.
I
La
-f

that have been pre-viewed in Dream-land. Recently, while
in Constantinople, I became acquainted with a famous D on-
golese negro, near the Grand Mosque of St. Sophia, in one of
the narrow streets on the left, as you enter the square from
toward the first bridge, and this man had reduced the inter-
pretation of dreams to a science almost ; and many a long
hour have I rapidly driven the pen, in the work of recording
what was translated to me from Dongolese and Arabic into
Turkish and English, from his lips-obtaining in this way,
not merely the principles upon which his art was founded
but also explicit interpretations of about twenty-nine hundred
different dreams, all of which I intend to print as a curiosity,
if nothing more, in one month after this present story
shall find-as I expect it will-its place before the world.*
Tom Clark was dreaming. And lo ! great changes had
taken place in the fortunes of the sleeping man. No longer
a toiler at the anvil or the plow, he, had become a rich and-
as times go--therefore an honored man; honored by the
crowd, which, as a general thing, sees the most virtue in the
heaviest sack of dollars.  ..  .  .  The wealth of Mr.
Thomas W. had come to him in a very singular and myste-
rious manner, all since he had become a widower-for Mrs.
Thomas was dead, poor woman, having some time previously
met her fate through a very melancholy accident. An ex-
tract from, the 'Daily Truth-Teller," of Santa Blarneeo, a
copy of which paper Tom Clark carried in his pocket all the
time, and which pocket I shall take the liberty of picking of
the journal aforesaid, and of quoting, will tell the story, sad
story, but not the whole of it-quite :
" FEARFUL AND FATAL CATASTROPHE !-We learn, with
deep, sincere, and very profound regret, that another of those
fearful calamities, which no human- prudence can guard
against, no foresight could prevent-has just occurred, and
by means of which a most estimable woman, an exemplary
and loving wife, an excellent Christian, firm friend, and
esteemed person, has been suddenly cut off in her prime,
and sent prematurely to her final account. It appears that
the late heavy rains have rendered all the ;roads leading
from Santa Blarneeo nearly impassible, by reason of the
rifis, rucks, boulders, and slides of clay-very dangerous and
gippery clay, which they have occasioned.
*August, 1863.

hi~ t
PIZ

THE RoqccIUAN' ,STrOIC Y

43


"Especially is this the case along the cliff road, and ore
particularly where it skirts the side of the Bayliss Gul
Of late it has been exceedingly unsafe to pass that way in
broad daylight, and much more so after dark.
"At about ten o'clock yesterday morning, as Ir. Ellet, the
Ranchero, was passing that road, along the brink of what
known as the Scott ravine, his horse shied at some objects in
the path, which proved to be a man's hat and woman'
shawl, on the very edge of ine precipice-a clear fall of
sonethii like four hundred leet, It immediately occurred
to Farmer Ellet, that if anybody had tumbled over the cl i;
that there was a great probability that whoever it was must
have been considerably hurt-if not more so !-vb thetime
they reached the bottom, as he well remembered h   a
the case with a yoke of steers of his, that had run off at
the same spot some years before, and both of which were
killed, very dead indeed, by the accident.. So, at least, he
informed. our reporter, who took down the statement phono-
graphically. Mr. Ellet discovered the remains ofla horse
and buggy at the bottom of the ravine, and at a littemira-
left, about ten feet down the bank, where he,had, by a mird
cle, been thrown when the horse went over, Mr. Ele  ound
the insensible body of a man-desperately hurt, yet still
breathing. His fall had been broken by some stout young
trees and bushes, amidst the roots of which he now lay. Mr.
E. soon rescued the sufferer, who proved to be lr. Thomas
W. Clark, a well-known, honest, sober man, and a neighbor
as well. Mr. Clark's injuries are altogether internal,tfrom
the shock of falling, otherwise he is almost unscratched.
His pains inwardly are very great, besides which he is nearly
distracted and insane, from the loss of his wife and hore-
but mainly for the former. It seems that they had
riding out on a visit to a sick friend, and the horse had
slipped on the wet clay-had taken fright and leapeded
brink, just as Clark sprang from the buggy, and telane
where Ellet found him. The horse, carriage, and the pre-
cious freight, instantly plunged headlong down through four
hundred feet of empty air.  .  .  . . We learn that the
couple were most devotedly attached to each other, as is
notorious from the fact, among others, that whenever they
met, after a day's absence, and no matter where nor in what
company, they invariably embraced and kissed each other,
the rich, deep fullness of their impassioned and exhaustless

THE ItOSLCRUCIANIS STORY.

44

rl

THE ROSICRUCIANIS STORY.

*    conjugal love. Poor Clark's loss is irreparable. his wife
had been twice married, but her affection for her first husband
was but as a shallow brook, compared to the deep, broad
ocean of love for him who now mourns, most bitterly
mourns her untimely fate !"
There ! What d'ye think o' that, my lady ?-what d'ye
think o' that, my man ? That's a newspaper report, the
same that Tom  Clark carried in his pocket, and read -so
often in his dream. Singular, isn't it, that the ruling pas-
sion triumphs, especially Reporters'-even in Death or
Dream-land ?  After a while Tom  got well, and his first
care was to carefully bury what was left of his wife--and her
first husband's portrait at the same time-for he had placed
that canvass across the backs of two chairs, and amused
by himself jumping through it, like a sensible man !
There is, do you know it ?-an almost uncontrollable fas-
cination in Danger? Have you never been seized with the
desire to throw yourself down some yawning chasm, into
some abyss, over into the ready jaws of a shark, to handle a
tiger, play with a rattlesnake, jump into a foundry furnace,
write a book, edit a paper, or some other such equally wise
and sensible thing? Well, I know many who have thus
been tempted-and to their ruin. Human nature always
has a morbid streak, and that is one of them, as is also the
horrible attraction to an execution-to visit the scene of a
homicide, or a conflagration-especially if a few people have
been burnt up-and the more, the stronger the curiosity ;
or to look at the spot where a score or two of Pat-landers
have been mumified by the weakness of walls-and contrac-
tors' consciences. With what strange interest we read how
the monarch of some distant lovely isle dined with his cab-
inet, offPotage aux tote de missionaire-how they banquetted
on delicate slices of boiled evangelist, all of which viandes
were unwillingly supplied by the Rev. Jonadab Convert-em-
all, who had a call that way to supply the bread of life not
slices of cold missionary-and did both ! So with Tom
Clark. One would have thought that the last scene he
would willingly look upon, would be the bottom of the ra-
vine. Not a bit of it. An uncontrollable desire seized him,
and for his life he could not keep away from the foot of the
cliff. He went there, and day by day searched for every
vestige of the poor woman, whose heart, and head likewise,
het at last had succeeded in breaking into very small frag-

45


THE ROSICRUCIAN S STORY.

46

TILE ROs1R CIAN S STORT.

ments. These relics he buried as he found them, yet still
could not forsake his daily haunt. Of course, for a time the
people observed his action, attributed it to grief and love,
forbore to watch or disturb, and finally cared nothing about
the matter whatever. Such things are nothing in California.
Well was it for Clark that it was so-that they regarded
him as mildly insane, and let his vagaries have full swing,
for it gave him ample time and opportunity to fully improve
one of the most astounding pieces of good luck that ever
befell a human being since the year One.
It fell out uiion a certain day, that, after attending to other
duties, Tom Clark, as usual, wound his way, by a zig-zag
and circuitous path, to the foot of the hill, and took his ac-
customed seat near by the rock where it was evident Mrs.
C. had landed-the precise spot where her flight had been so
rudely checked. There he sat for a while, like Volney, in
deep speculative revery and meditation-not upon the
ruins of Empires, but upon those of his horse, his buggy, and
his wife. Suddenly he started to his feet, for a very strange
fancy had struck upon his brain. I cannot tell the precise
spot of its impingement, but it hit him hard. He acted on
the idea instantly, and forthwith resolved to dig up all the
soil thereabouts, that had perchance drank a single drop of
her blood. It was not conscience that was at work, it was
destiny. This soil, that had been imbrued with the blood of
the horse and buggy-no, the woman, I mean-he resolved
to bury out of sight of man and brute, and sun and moon, and
little peeping stars; for an instinct told him that the gore-
stained soil could not be an acceptable spectacle to anything on
earth, upon the velvet air, or in the blue heaven above it ;
and so he scratched up the mould and buried it out of sight,
in a rift hard by, between two mighty rocks, that the earth-
quake had split asunder a million years before.   _
And so he threw it in, and then tried, to screen it from the
sun with leaves and grass, great stones and logs of wood,
after which he again sat down upon the rock to rest.
Presently he arose to go, when, as he did so, a gleam of
sunshine flashed back upon his eyes from a minute spicule
of, he knew not what. He stooped; picked up the object,
and found, to his utter astonishment, that he held in his
hand a lump of gold, solid gold-an abraded, glittering lump
of actual, shining gold.
Tom Clark nearly fainted! The lump weighed not less

Z    M
C  Ij
j
at

than a pound. I t, sides had been scratched by him as he
dug away the earth at the foot of the cliff where his wife
had landed, after a brief flight through four hundred feet of
empty air-a profitable journey for him-but not for her,
nor the horse, nor buggy
For a minute Clark stood still, utterly bewildered, and wip-
ing the great round beads of sweat from off his brow. He
wept at every pore. But it was for a minute only ; in the
next he was madly, wildly digging with the trowel he
always carried with him, for Tom was herb doctor in general
for the region roundabout, and was great at the root and
herb business, therefore went prepared to dig them wherever
chance disclosed them.
Five long hours did he labor like a Hercules, in the soft
mould, in the crevices of the rocks-everywhere-and with
mad energy, almost frantic zeal. Five long hours did he ply
that trowel with all the force that the hope of sudden wealth
inspired, and then exhausted, spent, he sank prostrate on the
ground, his head resting on a mass of yellow gold- gold not in
dust, or flecks, or scales, but in great and massy lumps and
wedges, each one large enough for a poor man's making.
That morning Thomas Clark's worldly wealth, all told,
could have been bought thrice over for any one of the pieces
then beneath his head, and there were scores of them. His
brain reeled with the tremendous excitement. He had struck
the richest "Lead" ever struck by mortal man on the sur-
face of the planet, for he had already collected more than he
could lift, and he was a very strong and powerful man.
There was enough to fill a two-peck measure packed and
piled, as close and high as it could be; and yet he had just
begun. Ah, Heaven, it was too much !
Alas, poor Tom ! poor, doubly poor, with all thy sudden
wealth, boundless wealth ! Thou art even poorer than Val-
mondi, who, the legends say, gave his soul to the service of
the foul fiend ; for he, like thee, had riches inexhaustible,
but, unlike Valmondi, and the higher Brethren of the 'Rosie
Cross, thou hast not the priceless secret of Perpetual youth.
Thou wilt grow old, Tom Clark-grow old. and sick, and
gray hairs and wrinkles will overtake thee. And see ! yon-
der is .an open grave, and it yearns for thee, Tom Clark, it
yearns for thee ! And there's Blood upon thy hands, Tom
Clark, red gouts of Blood-and gold cannot wash it off.
Valmondi repented, and died a beggar, but thy heart is

47

1'',


cased in golden armor, and the shafts of Mercy may not
reach its case, and wake thee up to better leeds, and high
and lofty daring -for the world and for thy fellow-men.
Gold ! Ah, Tom, Ton, thou hadst better have been an hum-
ble Rosicrucian--better than 1, for weakness has been mine
-been good, Tom, as I want, and hope to be. It is better to
labor hard with brain and tongue and hands, for mere food
and raiment, than be loaded down with riches, that bear
many a man earthward, and fill untimely graves! It is bet-
ter to live on bread, and earn it, than to be a millionaire.
Better to have heaped up wealth of Goodness, than many
bars of Gold. Poor Tom! Rich you are in what self-seek-
ing men call wealth ; but poor, ah,, how poor ! in the better
having, which whetteth the appetite for knowledge, and its
fruitage, Wisdom, and which sendeth man, at night, to Happy
Dream land, upon the viewless pinions of sweet and balmy
Sleep ! Every dollar above labor brings ten thousand evils
in its train. . . .  . Well, night was close at hand, and
Tom buried his God, and went home. Home, did I say?
Not so. He went to his bed, to sleep, and in that sleep he
dreamed that it was raining double eagles, while he held his
hat beneath the spout. But he was not home, for home is
where the heart is, and we have seen the locality of Clark's.
For days, weeks, months, he still worked at
his " Lead," studiously keeping his own counsel, and man-
aging the affair, from first to last, with the most consum-
mate tact ; so that no one even suspected that the richest
man in California, and on the entire continent, was Mr.
Thomas W. By degrees he conveyed to, and had vast sums
coined 'at the mint, as agent for some mining companies. A
few hogsheads he buried here and there, and sprinkled some
dozens of barrels elsewhere about the ground. This he con-
tinued to do until at last even his appetite for gold was
doubly, triply glutted ; and then he sprung the secret, sold
his claim for three millions, cash in hand, and forthwith
1;        moved, and set up an establishment close under Telegraph
Hill, in the best locality in all Santa Blarneeo.
And now Everybody and his wife bowed to Mr. Thomas
W., and did homage to-his money. Curious, isn't it, how
long some gods will live ? About three thousand years ago
a man of Israel fashioned one out of borrowed jewelry, fash-
ioned it in the form of a veal, after which he proclaimed it,
and all the human calves fell down straightway, and a good

I
I

. R
y
e+i t

TIE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

many are still bent on worshiping at the self same shrine.
That calf has retained to this day "eleven-tenths" of earth's
most zealous adoration ! So now did men reverence Clark's
money. Women smiled upon him, ambitious spinsters og-
gled, and hopeful maidens set their caps to enthrall him. He
could carry any election, gave tone to the Money Market,
reigned supreme and undisputed king on "'Change," and
people took him for a happy man; and so he was, as long
as daylight lasted, and he was steadily employed; but,
somehow or other, his nights were devilishly unpleasant !
le could not rest well, for in the silence of the night, when
deep sleep falleth upon man, an unsheeted ghost passed be-
fore his face, bearing a most damnably correct similitude to
a former female acquaintance of his, now alas, deceased ; and
not unfrequently, as he hurried along the streets, did he
encounter persons who bore surprising and unmistakable
resemblances to the "dear departed."
"Black clouds come up, like sinful visions,
To distract the souls of solitary men."
Was Tom    Clark mistaken?  Was it Fancy?    Was it
Fear ?  . . .   . One night he went to a theatre, but left
it in a hurry, when the actor, who was playing Macbeth,
looked straight into his private box and said :
The times have been that, when the brains were out
The man would die-and there an end;
But now they rise again, with twenty mortal murders
On their crowns, to push us from our seats !"
And the words pushed Clark out of the house, deadly sick-
fearfully pale ; for the avenging furies, roused at last, were
at that very moment lashing his guilty soul to madness-and
Shakespeare's lines, like double-edged daggers, went plung-
ing, cutting, flying, leaping through every vault and cavern
of his spirit. He rushed from the place, reached his house,
and now: " The bowl, the bowl I Wine, give me wine, ruby
wine ." They gave it, and it failed ! Stronger drink, much
stronger, now became his refuge, and in stupefying his brain
he stultified his conscience. His torture was not to last for-
ever, for by dint of debauchery his sensitive soul went to
sleep, and the brute man took the ascendent. Conscience
2*

48 '

TIE ROSICRUCIANIS STORY.

d9


50             THE ROSScRUCIAN's STORY.
TH"oICUINs                          R.51
slept profoundly. His heart grew case-hardened, cold andT-
callous as an iceberg. He married a Voice, and a Figure
as heartless as himself ; became a politician -- which.
completely finished him-but still, several handsome dona-
tions to a fashionable church, just think of it !-had the
effect of procuring him the reputation of sanctity, which lie
he, by dint of repetition, at last prevailed upon himself to be-
lieve. Thus we leave him for a while, and return to the
chamber in which was the little window whose upper sash
was down.
THE DREAM OF BETSEY CLAIRK.
Madame, awake, it will be remembered, had come to the
conclusion to settle Tom's coffee-and hash, at the same time,
with a dose or two of ratsbane, or some similar delicate con-
diment; and now, in her dream, she thought all her plans
were so well and surely made, as to defy detection, and laugh
outright at failure... ...     In California there is a
small, but very troublesome rodent, known to Science as
"Pseudo-stoma bursarius," and to the vulgar world as
pher"-a sort of burrowing rat, nearly as mischievous, and
quite as wicked, for the little wretches have a settled and
special penchant for boring holes in the ground, particularly
mnthe vicinity of fruit trees. My friend, Mr. Rumford, who
has a very -fine orchard in Fruit Vale, Contra Costa, just
across the Bay from Santa Blarneeo, recently assured me
that the rascals make it a point to destroy young trees, not
only without compunction, but even without saying, " By
your leave." Now, it so happened that Clark's place, like
Rumford's, was overstocked with the pestilent animals
alluded to, and the proprietors had, time and again, threat-
ened the whole race with extermination, by means of arsenic,
phosphor paste. or some other effective poison, but had never
carried the resolution into practice. This fact was seized on
by Mrs. Clark, as a capital point d'appui. Accordingly,
with  a dull hand-saw, that lady hacked a few dozen of the
very choicest young trees, in such a way as to make it look
like unmistakable gopher work, thus subjecting the brutes to
charges whereof they were as innocent as two unborn babes.
Gophers and the Devil have to answer for a great deal that
properly belong to other parties. Her act was a grand
stroke of policy. She meant that Tom should voluntarily
get the poison, which she intended he-not the gophers-
should take at the very earliest possible opportunity. She


52             THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.
didn't mean to purchase arsenic; oh, no, she knew too much
for that! The ravage was speedily discovered by Clark. He
raved, stamped his foot in his wrath, turned- round on his
heel, pulled his cap over his eyes, ejaculated " Dod dern'em !"
started for the city, and that very night returned, bearer of
six bits' worth of the strongestgand deadliest kind of poison.-
nearly as deadly, almost as strong, as that which stupid fools
drink in corner stores at six cents a glass. That night about
half the poison was mixed and set. Twelve hours thereafter
there was great tribulati a and mourning in Gopherdom;
for scores of the little gentry ate of it, liked the flavor, tried
a little more-got thirsty-they drank freely (most fools do !).
felt uncomfortable, got angry, swelled-with indignation and
poisoned meal ! and not a few of them immediately (to quote
Mr. Clark) "failed in business ; that is to say, they burst-
burst all to thunder !"  Alas, poor rodents! ... . .. Next
morning Tom's coffee was particularly good. Betsey fairly
outdid herself; in fact she came it rather too'strong. About
ten o'clock he felt thirsty, and inclined toward cold water ;
for the weather was hot, and so were his "coppers," to quote
the Ancient Mariner. He would have taken much water,
only that Betsey dissuaded him, and said : "It was just like
him, to go and get sick by drinking ever so much cold water !
Why didn't he take switchel, or, what was much better'
cold coffee with plenty of milk in it-and sugar, of course:"
and so he (Tom) tried her prescription, liked it, took a little
more, and that night followed the Gophers... . . .  .
Three days afterward a kindly neighbor handed Mrs. Clark
a freshicopy of the Sahta Blarneo Looking Glass, wherein
she read with tearful eyes the following true and veracious
account of
A MOST DISTRESING AND FATAL SUICIDE!
"We regret to announce the fearful suicide, while laboring
under a fit of temporary insanity, caused by the bite of a
gopher, of Mr. Thomas W. Clark. It appears, that in order
to destroy the vermin, he purchased some arsenic, gave some
to the animals, got bitten by them, ran stark mad in conse-
quence, and then swallowed the balance (about a pound)
himself. His unfortunate wife now lies at the point of death,
by reason of the dreadful shock. She is utterly distracted
by the distressing and heart-rending event, which is all the
more poignant from the fact, that inasmuch as probably no

[

THE ROSICEUCIAN's STORY.             53
married pair that ever lived were more ardently and devot-
edly attached than were they. The coroner and a picked
jury of twelve men sat for two hours in consultation, after
which they found a verdict of Death by his own act, while
insane, from the bite of a gopher !"
In due time the body of the victim who had been killed
dead, so exceedingly dead, by cruel, cold poison-(if it had
been warm, he might have stood it, but cold i) -was consigned
to the grave-and forgetfulness--at the same time ; and after a
brief season of mourning, materially assisted, before company,
by a peeled onion (one of the rankest kind) in a handker-
chief, applied to the eyes-my Lady Gay, our disconsolate
relict-fair, forty, and somewhat fat-gave tokens, by change
of dress, that she was once more in the market matrimonial,
With her tacks and sheets, and her bowlines, too,
And colors flying-red, white, and blue.

She was once more ready to dare and do for husband number
three. To do her justice she was good-looking-all women
are, when they choose to be. Her face was fair and intelli-
gent ; she possessed a voluptuous degree of what Monsieur
de Fillagre calls " om-bong pong" (enbonpoint), could sing-
at a mark ; and if not 0 fat ! was aufait-a little of both,
perhaps-on the light, fantastic toe-of the California Order ;
while, as an invaluable addition, there was no woman on the
coast who could equal her in getting up either linen, a dinner,
or a quarrel. She excelled all rivals in the really divine art
of cooking a husband-beefsteak, I mean. Her pastry
and bread were excellent, her tea was fine, and her
4   coffee was all that man could wish-and more so, for it
4  was good-perfectly killing-as we have seen. Betsey took
matters coolly ; was in no apparent hurry, for she had re-
solved to shoot only at high game, and accordingly, after a
* time, deigned to smile upon the Reverend Doctor Dryas-
dust, the honored head of the new sect recently sprung up
in the land, and which was known as the " Watcher Kaw-
j  lums." and who rejoiced in repudiating everything over five
j years old in the shape of doctrine, tenet and discipline, but
who went in strongly for Progress and pantaloons-for
women; for Honduras and the naked truth ; for Socialism
and -sugar estates; mahogany and horticulture-a patent
sort. Now, the pastor of this promising body felt that it was
not good for man to b  alone, and therefore cast about for a

s §
ti


54             THE ROSICRUC1AN' SSTORY.
rib whereof to have fashioned a helpmneet unto him. He saw
the widow, fell in love, proposed, was accepted, and in due
time she became the wife of the Newlight preacher. I like
the old lights best ; she didn't.
Betsey achieved a "position"-a thing for which her sex
almost proverbially sacrifice all they have on earth-happi-
ness, health, long life, usefulness. She enjoyed herself quite
well, and only two things disturbed her peace of nind:
First, she could not bear the smell or sight of coffee, which
drink her new lord was strongly addicted to, and insisted on
her making for him with her own hands ; thereby inflicting
daily tortures upon her, compared to which all physical pain
is pleasure. The second disturbing cause was this: by a
very strange fatality their house was overrun with rats, and
their garden fairly swarmed with gophers-which, with in-
fernal malice and pertinacity, became quite tame and semi-
domesticated, and intruded themselves upon her notice a
dozen times a day, thereby fetching up from memory's store-
house fearful reminiscences of other days-horrible recollec-
tions of the gophers of the long- agone. It is .hard to be
weaned of your fears ! Nevertheless, after a while she con-
quered herself, brazened down her horrors, weighed herself,
applied a false logic, tried herself by it, and returned a clear
verdict of "Justifiable all the way," and concluded that her
present happiness, what there was of it, fairly outweighed
the crime by which it had been reached. She vas materi-
ally justified in her conclusions by an accidental development
of character on the part of her present husband, who had, in
a fit of petulance, unfolded a leaf from the inner volume of
the soul within.
Not caring to recapitulate the whole story (for reticence is
sometimes wisdom), I will merely observe that, at the end of
a somewhat heated controversy, her-husband had smashed a
mirror with one of Webster's quarto dictionaries, and
roundly declared that he " preached for pay. Hang it, Ma-
dame! the salary's the thing-you Betl! How can souls be
saved without a salary ? That's a plain question. They are
not now, at all events, whatever may have been the case with
the Old Lights, who had a great deal more zeal than discre-
tion-more fools they ! It can't be done in these days of
high prices and costly raiment-with the obligation of feed-
ing well and dressing better. What's life without money '-
What's talent without brass ? What's genius without gold'?

THE   OSICJUCIAN S STOIn.           55
They won't pay ! No, no, Madame ; in the game of life,
diamonds are always trumps, and hearts are bound to lose !
What's the result?
a-Listen ! Five years ago, up in the mountains, I thought I
had a call. I did, and went--and preached the new doctrines
of Do-as-you-feel-a-mina-to - provided-you-dont-get-catched-
at-it-ism--the regular out and out All-Right-ite-provided-
you-don't-tread-on-my-corns religion. Well, I preached it,
had large houses, converted many--and nearly starved!
What's the consequence?  Why, I left, and now hear only
the loudest kind of calls ! What's the loudest call ?  Why,
the biggest salary ! that's what's the matter ! Do you see
the point-the place where the laugh comes in'? It's as
plain as A B C to me, or any other mania and all the rest is
leather and prunella--stuff, fudge-Hum !"
Honest, out spoken Dryasdust ! How many of the world's
teachers sail in the same boat ! His eloquence-not all false,
perhaps--was not lost upon his wife. The Dryasdusts are
not all dead ; there's a few more left of the same sort-only
they keep their own counsel, even from their wives. New
Lights !
As a result of this conversation, Madame became a sort of
cross between an Atheist and-God knows what - for she
was neither one thing or 'tother, but a sort of pseudo philo-
sophical nondescript, without any set principle of belief
whatever. H1er conscience froze.
" Who knoweth the spirit of a man that it goeth upward,
or of a beast that it goeth downward'? The Spiritualists ?---
a pack of fanatics ! I don't believe in ghosts"-but she shud-
dered as she gave utterance to the words, and her hair crawled
upon her head as if touched with spectral fingers. No man
disbelieves his immortality- the thing is impossible, per se;
for although he may differ with that class of people who pre-
tend to very extensive ghostly acquaintanceship and com-
mnerce, as many do -yet they doubtless always whistle as
they pass a graveyard in the night ! I certainly-do ! Why ?
Because I disbelieve in ghosts !-of course.
She resumed her soliloquy: " I'm nervous-that's all! I
mean to eat, drink and be merry, for to morrow I die - DIE?
What of it-isn't Death an eternal sleep ?  My husband
says that it is, to all except the New Lights ; but he's a fool
in some things, that's certain . . And after death, the Judg-
ment !"  And she shuddered again, for a cold wind passed


THE ROSICRUCIANs STORY.

by her, and she thought it best to light two more candles
and run her fingers over the piano, and take a glass of Sain-
sevain's best Angelica. "Bah I who knows anything about
a judgment ?  There's no such thing.  He's dead. What of
it ?  He can't talk.! If he could, what of it ?  Ghosts can't
testify in court ! Besides, it was to be - and it's done. Fate
is responsible, not I-a,
'In spite of Reason, erring Reason's spite,
One truth is clear, Whatever is is Right.'
" Tom was to die. The conditions that surrounded him
were just such as determined the results that followed. I
was but the proxy of eternal Fate. Am I to blame ? Cer-
tainly not, for I acted in precise accordance with the con-
ditions that surrounded me-that made me do as I did -
tempted me beyond my strength ; and for that reason the
crime, if crime it be, was a foregone conclusion from the
foundation of the world ! Hereafter?
' Come from.the grave td-morrow with that story,
And I may take some softer path to glory.'
"Parrhassius was a true'philosopher---or Willis. Pshaw !
I guess I'll take another drop of Angelica!"
Poor Betsey ! she had been reading Pope and Leibnitz,
and Ben Blood-bad, worse and worse, unfairly interpreted;
good, better and best, rightly understood - and as the re-
spective writers probably meant. Weak people read a book
as children do Swift's Gulliver - on the surface ; others
reasI the great book whose letters are suns, whose words are
statry systems, in the self-same manner ; and there is still a
greater volume- the first edition, to be continued-the Hu-
man Soul-which they never read at all. All of these must
go to school ; they will graduate by-and-by, when Death
turns over a new leaf. It is best to study now-there may
not be so good a chance presently.
Betsey Clark believed, or thought she did, that because
God made all things, therefore there could be no wrong in
all the world, She accepted Pope's conclusions literally, mis-
read them, and totally overlooked the sublime teach-
ings of the third author named ; and her mind went to
rest, and her conscience slumbered under the sophisms-for

56

a
.d
z
;r
-F
d
ry
4
T
2

THE ROSICRUCIAN S STORY.

57

such they are, from one point of view. ,The opiate acted
well. And so she slept for years-long years of, peace,
wealth, all the world could give her- slept in the belief that
there would never be a waking. Was she right?      Wait.
Let us see .....eWe are still in the little chamber, near
the window-the little window at the foot of the bed-whose
upper sash was down.


58

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

li   ,t4%,
TOM CLARK DREAMS AGAIN.
And now the Shadow- the terrible, monstrous Thing, that
had so strangely entered the room through the window-- the
little window at the foot of the bed, whose upper sash was
down -hovered no longer over the heads of the woman and
the man - the unhappy woman, the misery-laden man, who,
when thelast sun had set, went to bed with Murder and
Revenge - and Hatred--this wretched couple, who had con-
templated such dreadful crimes, and who, within the past two
hours, had had such strange and marvellous dreams ! Only
two hours ! and yet in that space had been crowded the events
of a lifetime. They say there are no miracles ! What, then,
is this ? What are these strange experiences of soul which
we are constantly having--fifty years compressed in an hour,
of ordinary Dream !--thirty thousand ages in a moment of
time, while under the accursed spells of Hashish?
The soul flying back over unnumbered centuries ; scanning
the totality of the Present, and grasping a myriad Futurities
--sweeping the vortex of unborn epochs by the million !-
and all in an instant of the clock, while under the influence
of the still more accursed Muust.
What are the frogs and bloody waves of Egypt, compared
to these miracles of the human soul-these Dream lives that
are not Dreams?  * * * ** *     And so the Thing took
the glare of its horrible Eye from off the woman and off the
man.   Its mission-its temptations were over.  And it
floated from off the bed, frown-smiling at Hesperina as it did
so; and it passed lazily, gloomily, scowlingly through the
window at the foot of the bed, through which it had a little
previously entered-the little window whose upper sash was
down : and it moved through the starlight with a rush and
a roar-a sullen rush and roar-as if each star beam stabbed
it with a dagger of flame ; and the thing seemed consciously
angry, and it sullenly roared, as doth the wintry blast

THE ROSICRUCIAN's STORY.              59
through the tattered sails of a storm-tosed barque, toil-
somely laboring thro' the angry deep : a minute passed, and
IT was gone ; thank God ! IT was gone-at last-that
horrible Incubus-that most fearful Thing ! Simultaneously
the sleepers evinced by their movements that their souls, if
not their senses, had been relieved by presence of its ab-
sence ; and they were apparently on the point of waking,
but were prevented by the magic, or magnetic action of the
angelic figure at that moment leaning o'er their couch ; for
she gently, soothingly waved her snowy hands, and in a
voice sweeter than the tones of love, whispered: "Sleep on;
still sleep-softly-sweetly sleep-and dream. Peace, trou-
bled hearts ! Peace ; Be still !" and they slumbered on.
Tom Clark's dream had changed. All the former troubled
and exciting scene had changed-had vanished into thin air,
leaving only vague, dim memories behind, to remind his soul
of what it had been, and what it had seen and suffered. In
the former dream he had been on dry land, solid land ; but
now all this was strangely altered, and he found himself
tossed on the rough, tumultuous sea ; his lot was cast upon
the deep-upon a wild and dreary waste of waters.
In his dream the rain-great round and heavy drops of rain
-fell in torrents ; the mad winds and driving sleet-for the
rain froze as it fell-raved and roared fiercely, fitfully ; and
the good ship bent and bellied to the hurricane, and she
groaned, as if loth to give up the ghost. And she drove
before the blast, and she plunged headlong into the foaming
billows, and ever and anon shook her head-brave ship ! as
if she knew that ruin was before her, and had determined
to meet it as a good ship should-bravely, fairly in the face.
I have yet to disbelieve that every perfect work of man-
ship, watch, engine-has a semi-conscious life of its own-a
life derived from the immortal soul that gave its idea birth-
or all these things-these ships, watches, engines, are ideas,
spiritual, subtle, invisible, till man hides their nakedness
with wood, iron, steel, brass-the fig leaves of the Ideal
World. Some people cannot feel an idea, or be introduced
to one, unless it be dressed up in matter. Sometimes we
lay it on paper or canvas, and draw pencil lines around, or
color it, and then it can be seen ; else we take one and plant
it out of doors, and then put brick and iron, marble and glass
sides to it, rendering the spirit visible, and then thepeople
see the Idea's Clothing, and fancy they behold the thing


60             THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY./                                  THE ROSICRUOIAN'S sTORY.            61
itself, just as others, when looking at a human body, imagine  there with frost-fetters ; and they loaded the fated ship
they behold the man, the woman, or the child. A mistake !  with fantastic robes of pearly, heavy, glittering ice-loaded
None but God ever beheld a human Soul, and this it is, and  her down as sin loads down the transgressor. .. ...And
'not the body or its accidents that constitutes the Ego. still the noble ship wore on--still refused the bitter death.
And the ship surged through the boiling seas, and her    Enshrouded with massy sheets and clumps of ice, the good
timbers strained and cracked in the combat, and her cordage  craft nearly toppled with the weight, or settled forever in
shrieked as the blast tore throogh, and the torn sails cried,  the yawning deep; for despite of her grand endeavors-her
almost humanly -like a man whose heart is breaking         almost human will and resolution-her desperate efforts to
because his wife loves him not, and all the world for him is  save her precious freight of human souls-she nearly sue-
robed in mourning-and they cried, as if in deadly fear;  Acombed, and seemed ready to yield them to the briny waters
they were craving mercy at the Storm-King's hands. He      below. Lashed to staunch timbers, the trembling remnant
heard the cries, bnt he laughed "ho! ho " and he laughed   of the crew soon found out, while terror crowned their pallid
"ha I ha " and he tore away another sail and hurled it in  brows, that the tornado was driving them right straight
the sea, laughing madly all the while ; and he blew, and he  upon a rock-bound coast-foaming and hopeless for them,
rattled, and he roared in frightful glee ; and he laughed  notwithstanding that from the summit of the bold cliffs, a
"ha ! ha!" and he laughed "ho ! ho !" as the bridegroom   light-house gleamed forth its eye coldly-cynically upon the
laughs in triumph.                                        night-in mockery lighting the way to watery death and
And still the storm came down ; and the yards bent be-  run. Steadily, clearly it glimmered'out upon the darkness,
fore the gale, and the masts snapped assunder, like pipe-clay  distinctly showing them the white froth at the foot of the
stems, and the billows leaped and dashed angrily at her   cliff-the anger-foam of the demon of the storm. Ali. God !
sides. like a trained blood-hound at the throat of the mother,  Have mercy ! have mercy ! . . . . look yonder, at the stern
whose crime is being black-Chivalrous, well-trained blood-  of the ship ! What frightful gorgon is that?  You know
hounds ! And the waves swept the decks of the barque-     not! Well, that is Death, sitting on the tafifrail. See, he
swept them clean, and whirled many a man into the weltering  moves about. Death is standing at the cabin door ; he is
main, and sent their souls to heaven by water, and their  gazing down below, looking up aloft. gazing out over the
bodies to the coral caves of Ocean. Poor Sailors ! The    bleak, into the farther night. See ! he is stalking about the
Storm King's wrathful ire was roused, and his fury up in  deck-the icy deck-very slippery it is, and where you fall
arms; and the angry waves danced attendance ; the lightning  you die, for he has trodden on the spot. Ah, me ! ah me !
held high revelry, and flashed its applause in the very face  Woe, woe, a terrible woe is here, Tom Clark ! Tom elark,
of heaven, and lit up the night with terrible, ghastly smiles;  don't you hear?  Death stands glamoring on you ! Hark!1
and the sullen growl of distant thunder was the only requiem  lie is whistling in the rigging ; he is swinging on the snap-
over the dead. It was night. Day had long left the earth,  ping ends of yonder loosened halliards ; if they strike you
and gone to renew his youth in his Western bath of fire-  you are dead, for they are Whips, and Death is snapping
as we all must,-for death is our West-and the gloobny    them! He is calling you, Tom Clark ; don't you hear him ?
eidolon had usurped Day's throne, arrayed in black gar-  -calling from his throne, and his throne is the Tempest,
ments. streaked with flaming red, boding no good, but only  Tom Clark, the Tempest. Now he is watching you-don't
ill to all that breathed the upper air. And the turmoil woke  his glance trouble you ?  Don't you know that he is gazing
the North, and summoned him to the wassail; and he leaped  down into your eyes ?  How cold k his glance ! how colder
from his couch of snow, with icebergs for his pillow, and he  his breath ! It is very, very cold. Ah! I shiver as I think-
stood erect. upon his throne at the Pole, and he blew a tri.  and Death is freezing you, Tom Clark;--he is freezing your
umphant, joyous blast, and sent ten thousand icy deaths to  very heart, and turning your blood to ice. He is freezing
represent him at the grand, tempestuous revel. They came,  you, and has tried to freeze me, in various ways. But I
and as the waters leaped into the rigging, they lashed them  bade him stand back-to stay his breath-for, unlike you,


6,)           T HE ROS((RUCIA N S SiTol.
Torn Ulark,'1 ai t Brother of the Rosie Cross, and I have
been over Egypt, and Syria, and Turkey ; on the borders of
the Caspian, and Arabia's shores; over sterile steppes, and
weltered through the Desserts-and all in search of the
loftier knowledge of the Soul, that can only there be found ;
and I found what I sought, Tom Clark-the naturesof the
Soul, its destiny, and how it may be trained to any end or
purpose. And the History and Mystery of Dream, Tom
Clark, from the lips of the Oriental Dwellers in the Temple
-and Pul Ali Beg-Tom Clark-our Persian Ramus, and
our lordly Chief,-and I learned the worth of Will, and how
to say, and mean,-" I will be well, and not sick-alive, and
not dead !" and achieve the purpose. How ? That is our
secret-the Rosicrucians'-strange order of men; living all
along the ages, till they are ready to die-for Death comes
only because man will not beat him back. They die through
Feebleness of Will. But not so with us, Tom Clark ; we
leave not until our work is done, and mine is not yet finished.
We exercise our power over others, too, but ever for their
good. Well do I remember, how, when I lived in Charles-
town, there was an old man dying, but I bade him live. He
exists to-day-and long years before that there reached me
-lightning borne, on the banks of the Hudson, a message
saying, " Come, she is dying !" and I went, and stood beside
the bed of the sweet sick child, and I prayed, and I invoked
the Adonim of the Upper Temple ; and they came, and bade
her live : And she liveth yet, a fair and gentle maiden, and
Ah ! how beautiful !-Millie !
Till our work is done ! What work? you ask me, and
from over the steaming seas I answer, and I tell you through
the boundless air that separates us: Our work is to help
finish that begun lang syne upon the stony heights of Cal-
vary ; in the shade beneath the olive in Gethsemane, where
I have stood and wept-begun when Time was two thousand
years younger than to-day. Our work, Tom Clark, is to
make men, by teaching them to make themselves. We
strive to impress a sense upon the world of the priceless
value of a MAN!-
And the vessel drove before the gale straight upon the
cliff. Allhope was at an end; all hope of rescue was dead.
There was great sorrowing on board that fated barque.
Heads were downcast, hearts beat wildly, ears drank in the
mournful monody of the scene, and 1o! the strong man

TIHE RoSICRUCIAN's STORY.            63
lifted up his voice and wept aloud. Did you ever see a man
in tears-tears tapped from his very soul?  God grant you
ever may.. The strong man weptI the very man, too,
who, a few brief hours before, had heaped up curses, for tri-
hing reasons, upon the heads of others; but now, in this
hour of agony and mortal terror, he fell upon his knees in
the sublime presence of God's insulted majesty ; there.
shed to the pump, trembling to his soul's deep center, he
cried aloud to Him for-Mercy ! God's ears are never deaf !
At that moment one of His Angels-Sandalphon-the
Prayer bearer, in passing by that way, chanced to behold
thesublime and moving spectacle. And his eyes flashed
gladness, even through his seraph tears ; and he could
scarcely speak for the deep emotion that stirred his angel
heart; but still he pointed with one hand at the prostrate
penitent, and with the other he. placed the golden trumpet
to his lips, and blew a blast that woke the sleeping echoes
throughout the vast Infinitudes; and he cried up, cried up
from his very soul: "Behold I he prayeth !" And the Silence
of the upper courts of Heaven started into Sound at the glad
announcement. There is not only the difference of a species,
but of an entire order, between a formal and a soul-sent
prayer.  "Behold, he prayeth."   And the sentence was
borne afar on the fleecy pinions of the Light, from Ashtoreth
to Mazaroth, star echoing to star.... And still the sound
sped on, nor ceased its flight until it struck the pearly Gates
of Glory-where was an Angel standing-the Recording
Angel-writing in a Book ; and 0! how eagerly he penned
the sentence, right opposite Tom Clark's name: "Behold!
he prayeth !" and the tears-great, hot, scalding tears, such
as, at this moment, I am shedding-rolled out from   the
angel's eyes, so that he could scarcely-see the book-rmin,-
own eyes are very dim-but still he wrote the words. God
grant that he may write them opposite your name and
mine-opposite everybody's, and everybody's son and daugh-
ter--opposite ALL our names ! " Behold, he prayeth." And
lo! the Angels and the Cherubim, the Seraphs and the An-
tarphim, caught up the sound, and sung through the Dome ;
sung it till it was echoed back from Aidenn's golden walls,
fi   the East to the West, and the North and South thereof;
until it echoed- back in low, melodious cadence froxu the
Veiled Throne, on which sitteth in majesty the Adorlai of
Adonim, the peerless and ineffable Over Soul, the gracious


64

THE ROsIcRUCIAN's STORY.

Lord of both the Living and the Dead ! Are there any Dead?
No ! except in sin and guiltiness ! ... And there was much
joy in the Starry World over one sinner that had in very
truth repented.... And still the ship drove on, and on, and
on-great heaven ! right on to a shelving ledge of rock,
where she was almost instantly dashed into a million frag-
ments ; masts, hull, sails, freight, men, all, all swept and
whirled with relentless fury into one common gulf of waters ;
and yet, despite the din and roar, there rose upon the air,
high and clear, and shrill:-
"Tintettling shriek, the bubbling cry
Of one strong swimmer in his agony."
And that swimmer was Tom Clark. Thrice had he been
thrown by the surf upon a jutting ledge of rock ; thrice had
he, with the strength of despair, clung to the rock, and
seized upon the sea-weed growing on its edges, with all the
energy of a drowning man. In vain; the relentless sea swept
him off again, broke his hold, and whirled him back into the
brine. His strength was almost gone ; exhaustion was nigh
at hand; and he floated, a helpless, nerveless mass at the
mercy of the tide. And yet, so wonderful a thing is a human
soul !-in that dreadful moment, when Hope herself was dead,
and he was about to quit forever and forever this earth of
sin and sorrow, and yet an earth so fair andbright, so lovely
and so full of love, teeming so with all that is heroic and
true, so friendly! and so kind ; his soul, even then, his pre-
cious and immortal soul, just then pluming its wings for a
flight to the far-off regions of the Living Dead-that soul
for which God Himself had put, forth all His redemptive
energy-had abundant time to assert its great prerogative,
and bid Death himself a haughty, stern defiance. With the
speed of Light his mental vision flashed back along and over
the valley of the dead years, and saw arrayed before it all
the strange phasmoramas of the foretime. Deeds, Thoughts
and Intuitions never die ! They are as immortal as the in-
perishable souls that give them life and being! . . . . And
Tom Clark was young again; his childhood, youth, maturity ;
his sins, sorrows, virtues, and his aspirations, all, all were
there, phototyped upon the walls of the mystic lane
through which his soul was gazing-a lane not ten inches
long, yet stretching away into the immeasurable deeps of

THE ROSICRiUcIAN's STORY.             65
Infinitude. A  Paradox ! I am speaking of the Soul !-a
thing whereof we talk so much, and know so very-little.
The specters. of all his Hours were there, painted on the
Wall of Memory's curved lane ; his joys, his weary days of
grief-few of the first, many of the latter, were there, like
green and smiling oases, standing out in quick relief against
the desert of his life. His anxious eyes became preternatu-
rally acute, and seemed to take cognizance both of fact and
cause--:effect and principle at the same glance. His mar-
riage life-even to its minutest circumstance-stood revealed
before him. He saw Betsey as she had been-a girl, spot-
less, artless, intelligent, ambitious ; beheld her married ; then
saw her as she was when she joined her lot with his own.
He beheld her as she had become-anything but a true wife
and woman, for'only her surface had been reached by either
husband. There was a fountain they had neither tapped or
known. Her heart had been touched, indeed; but her soul,
never. He was amazed to find that a woman can give more
than a husband is supposed to seek and find. More, did I
say ?  My heaven ! not one man in ten thousand can think
of a line and plummet long enough to fathom the vast ocean
of a woman's affection; cannot imagine the height and
depths-the unfathomable riches of 'a woman's Love. Not
a peculiar woman's-but any, every woman's love ; your
sister's, sir, or your wife's, sir, or mine, or anybody's sister
or wife-anybody's daughter. It appeared to Clark's vision
that a vast deal of his time had been worse than wasted,
else had he devoted a portion of it to the attentive study of
the woman whom he had, in the presence of God and man.
sworn to love, honor and protect; for no man is fit for
Heaven who does not love his wife, and no man can love his
wife unless he carefully studies her nature ; and he cannot
study her nature unless he renders himself lovable, and thus
calls out her love ; and until her love is thus called out, the
office of husband is a suicidal sham. Thus saith the canons
of the Rosicrucian philosophy. Is it bad?.. .. And he gazed
in the depths of her soul, surprised beyond measure to find
that God had planted so many goodly flowers in her soul-
even in virago Betsey's soul!1 And he said to himself-as
many another husband will, before a hundred years roll
by-" What a precious fool I've been ! spending all my time
in cultivating thistles-getting pricked, and cursing them--
when roses smell so very well, and are so easily raised ?


66

'I'Et EIOtI-CnUCIAN'S STORY,

fool! I wish"-and he blamed his folly for not having
nurtured roses-for not having duly cultivated the rich
garden God had entrusted hin with ; execrated himself for
not having cherished and nursed this garden, and availed
himself of its golden glorious fruitage. It was as a man who
had willfully left down the bars for the free entrance of his
neighbor's cattle, and then wondering that his harvest of
hay was not quite as heavy as desired. .. . Clark saw that it
had been in his power-as it unquestionably is in that of
every married man-by a few kind acts, a few tender,
loving words, to have thawed and melted forever the ice col-
lected, by ill-usage-and every woman is ill-used who is not
truly, purely, loyally loved ! Ile saw that he might easily
have warmed her spirit toward himself, therefore toward the
world, and consequently toward the Giver. le might have
made their life a constant summer-time--that very life that
had been by his own shortsighted externalism, confirmed into
a freezing, stormy, chilling winter.
Wheat and lentils I have seen in Egypt, taken from a
mummy's hand, where they had lain three thousand and four
hundred years. Some of that wheat I still possess ; some of
it I planted in a flower-pot, and it forthwith sprung up,
green and beautiful, into life and excellence. The mummy's
hand was dry : the tombs of Beni-lassan were not the places
for wheat to grow, for they are very dry. Do you see the
point, the place-the thing I'm aiming at ? It is to strike to
the earth these brawlers for Divorce-these breakers-up of
families, who preach-or prate of-what they have neither
brains to comprehend, nor manhood to appreciate-Mar-
riage ! . . . . Clark saw, in the s6ul of his wife, in an instant
that which takes me an hour to describe ; for the soul sees
faster than the hand can indite, or the lips utter. Ie beheld
many a gem, pure and translucent as a crystal, shut up in
the caverns of her nature; shut up, and barred from the
light, all the while yearning for day. What seeds of good,
what glorious wheat was there. The milk of human kind-
ness had been changed to ice-froth-sour, and sugar-less, not
fit to be tasted. Inestimable qualities had been left totally
unregarded, until they were covered up, nearly choked out
by noxious weeds. God plants excellent gardens, and it is
man's express business to keep it and dress it, and just as
surely as he neglects it, and leaves the bars down, or the

a
3
.a
.  fi
, i4:
,  ,
°a'
s y
y.
tS
_
. $ C
t
l1
J1
,' -
FN
'Y
r
tt+
T
:
T

fI

(;!

ales open, Ai1 m rely along comes the Tare-sower
whether his name be devil-or something worse.
Many good things, sAw Torn, that might have been devel-
oped into Use and Beauty, that had in fact, become fright-
fully coarse and abnormal ; and all for want of a little Trying.
"The saddest words of tongue or pen
Are these sad words : IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN!"

But that he was not kind, tractable, and confiding; and
that he was the reverse of all this. Faults of his own-
great and many ; self-corrective faults they were. He had
been curt, short, sarcastic, selfish, exacting, petulant, offisk,
arbitrary, tyrannical, suspicious, peremptory-all of which is
contained in the one word MEAN !-andhe was mean. Too
late he realized that he might have brought to the surface
all the delicious, ripe sweets of her woman, and her human
nature, instead of the cruel and the bitter. Ie saw, what
every husband ought to see'-but don't-that no woman can
be truly known, who is not truly loved !-and that, too, not
with mere lip-homage, nor with nervous, muscular, demon-
strative, show-love-for no female on the earth but will soon
detect all such-and reckon you up accordingly-at your
proper value-less than a straw ! She demands true"hom-
age, right straight from the heart ; from the bottom of the
heart-whence springs the rightful homage due from man to
woman-right straight from the heart-without deflection.
Mind this. Give her that, and ah, then, then, what a heaven
J is her presence and then, what a fullness she returns !
compound interest, a thousandfold, repeated !-a fullness of
affection so great. that God's love only exceedeth it !-a love
so rich and vast, that- man's soul can scarce contain the half
thereof. This truth I know. This truth I tell, because it is
such. You will bless me for it bye-and-bye, when I am
Over the River-if not before-will bless and thank the
Rosicrucian-despite of what "They say." Remember this !
Tom Clark was drowning, yet he realized all this. He
regretted that he had treated his wife as if she were soul-
less, or a softer sort of man. He could have so managed as
to have been all the world to Betsey-all the world, and
* something more and better, for there are leaves in wedlock's
book which only those can turn and read, who truly love
each other. Marriage is, to some, a 'coarse brown paper
volume, with rough binding, bad ink, and worse type, poorly

Till-',  I   41 ( 'il 1A AM' - :[,5,I.


68            THE RoSICIiUCIAN's STORY.
composed, and badly adjusted, without a page corrected. It"
may be made a super-royal volume, on tinted paper, gilt
edged, clear type, and rich and durable covers, the whole
constituting the History of two happy lives spent on Hymen
Island: Profusely illustrated, in full tints, with scenes of
Joy in all its phases. Price, The TRYING ! Very cheap,
don't you think so 7.... He saw, as he floated there in the
brine, that he had never done aught to call out his wife's
affection, in which he resembled many another whiskered
ninny, who insanely expect a woman to doat upon them
merely because they happen to be married. Dolts ! Not
one in a host comprehends woman's nature ; not one in two
hosts will take the trouble to find it out ; consequently, not
one man in three hosts but goes down to the grave never hav-
ing tasted life's best nectar-that of loving and being loved.
" 0, Betsey, Betsey. I know you now!  What a stupid
I have been, to be sure !"
Profound ejaculation.
"I've been an out-and-out fool!"
Sublime discovery !
Thus thought the dying man, in the dreadful hour of his
destiny-that solemn hour wherein the soul refuses to be
longer enslaved or deceived by the specious warp and woof
of the sophistical robe it may have voluntarily worn through
many a year, all the while believing it to be Truth. It is not
till a dose of Common Sense has caused us to- eject from our
moral stomachs the nice philosophical sweetmeats we have
indulged in for years, until at last they have disturbed our
digestion-sweets, very pleasant to the palate-like the " All
Right-ism" of the "Hub of the Universe"-but which, being
like boarding-house hash-very good in small quantities-
seldom presented-are not permanently desirable. Clark had
reached this crisis, and in an instant the scales fell from his
eyes-the same that blinds to many of us during the hey-
day and vigor of life. '
"If I could be spared, Betsey, I'd be a better man."
Bravo ! Glorious Thomas Clark ! Well said, even though
the waters choke thine utterance.
"I would. 0, wife, I begin to see your value, and what a
treasure I have lost-lost-lost !"
And the poor dying wretch struggled against the brine

THE AOsIcRVoIAN' SoTr.            68
-struggled bravely, fiercely to keep off the salt death-
the grim, scowling Death that had eat upon the taffrail; that
had stalked about the deck, and stood at the cabin door;
the same fearful Death that had whistled through the rig-
ging, and ridden on the storm, and which had followed him,
but had not yet touhed with his cold and icy scepter."

f
' _
,J-
. 'z
?,
x
5j
.7  t
:'f
t
~L
,
r
't
.
,
:  r
2
?
.
.
;d
S
s
t.
E
f
,
.9
a
;1
'"s
a
i


70           THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

-Ad      iXth.
WHAT BECAME OF THOMAS CLARK.
OUR entertainer ceased to speak, for the evening meal was
nearly ready, and the golden sun was setting in the West,
and he rose to his feet to enjoy the glowing scene. Never
shall I forget the intense interest taken by those who listened
to the tale-and doubtless these pages will fall in the hands
.of many who heard i reported from his own lips, on the
quarter-deck of the steamer " Uncle Sam," during the voyage
begun from San Francisco to Panama, on the twenty-first
day of November, 1862. At first his auditors were about ten
in number, but when he rose to look at the crimson glories
of the sky, fifty people were raptly listening. We adjourned
till the next day, when, as agreed upon the night before, we
convened, and for some time awaited his appearance. At
last he came, looking somewhat ill, for we were crossing the
Gulf of California, and Boreas and Neptune had been ele-
vating Robert, or, in plainer English, "Kicking up a bob-
bery" all night long.   There was at least a thousand
passengers aboard the steamer, consisting of all sorts of
people-sailors, soldiers, and divers trades and callings, and
yet not one of us appreciated the blessing of epigastrial dis-
turbances-caused by the " robbery" aforesaid. Many could
successfully withstand any amount of qualms of conscience--
but those of the stomach are quite a different thing alto-
gether; and not a few of us experienced strong yearnings
toward New York, and many reachings forth went in that
direction. Indeed, the weather was so rough, that scarce one
of us in the cabin fully enjoyed our breakfasts. As for me.
I'm very fond of mush and molasses ; but I really could i
partake thereof on that occasion. No, sir !  The gentleman
from Africa, who stands behind our end of the table to min-
ister to our gustatory wants, found his office a perfect sine-
cure that morning ; and both I and the Rosicrucian, in whose

THE RosICRUcIAN s sToRY.              71
welfare that official took an especial interest-because, in a
fit of enthusiasm, we had each given him four bits (ten
dimes), seemed to challenge his blandest pity and commiser-
ation, for we both sat there, looking as if we had been spe-
cially sent for, and couldn't go. The waiter-kind waiter !-
discerned, by a wonderful instinct, that we didn't feel exactly
0 fat," and he therefore, in dulcet tones, tried to persuade
as to take a little coffee. Coffee ! Only think of it ! Just
after Mrs. Thomas W. had poisoned her husband through
that delectable medium. le suggested pork ! Pork, avaunt !
We're sea-sick. "Beef !"  Just then I had a splendid proof
of Psychological infiltration and transmission of thought ;
for my friend and I instantaneously received a strong im-
pression-which we directly followed-to arise from   our
seats, go on deck, and look over the lee rail. . . . Toward the
trysting time, however, the sea smoothed its wrinkles, and
the waters smiled again. Presently the expected one came,
took his accustomed seat. and began the continuation of his
story as follows:
THE REST OF ToM CLARK) S DREAM.
" ' There's a tide in the affairs of man, which,
Taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.'
'There's a tide in the affairs of women, which
Taken at the flood, leads-God knows where.'-BvRox.
Neither do I!  Last night, my friends, we left poor Tom
in a desperate situation, from which it seems almost neces-
sary that we should relieve him, but really without exactly
knowing how-not feeling particularly well from the motion
of the ship last night. It is not easy to think, under such
circumstances ; still, believing as 1 do, in the sterling motto,
Try, why, I will endeavor to gratify your curiosity, especially
as I perceive we are honored with the presence of the ladies,
and, for their sakes, if not for our own, I feel it incumbent to
do something for him. . . . Tom Clark had, by the waves,
been already taken in, and by this time was nearly done for,
so far as easy breathing was concerned. Slowly, but surely,
his vision was fading away, and he felt that he was fast sink-
ing into Night.
"fDeep the gulf that hides the dead-
Long and dark the road they tread."
That road he felt that he was rapidly going; for his senses


72             Tas ntoasas o$wrSToiy.
wore becoming numb, and a nauseant sensation proved that
if he was not sea-sick, he was remarkably sick of the sea,
even to the point of dissolution.
All dying persons hear musical sounds: all dying persons
see strange, fitful gleams of marvellous light, and so did
Thomas Clark-low, sweet music and soft and pearly light
it was, but while he drank it in, and under its influ-
ence was being reconciled to Death, there suddenly rose high
and shrilly above the midnight tempest, a loud and agonizing
shriek--the wild, despairing, woful shriek of a woman-and
it was more shrill and piercing than the ziraleet of Egyptian
dame or Persian houri; and it broke upon the ear of the
perishing man, like a summons back to life and hope. Well
and instantly did he recognize its tones. " It must be-yet
no !-still it can be no other than her v-voice ! It cannot be
-and I am dy--ing 1" and an angry wave dashed over him,
drowning his utterance, and hurling his body, like a wisp of
straw, high upon the ledge of rocks, whence the recoil, or
undertow, was about to whirl it out again into the foaming
waters, when it was prevented by a most wonderful piece of
good fortune, which, at that instant, intervened to save him, at
what certainly was the most interesting and critical juncture
of his entire earthly existence. Again that sharp voice rang
out upon the storm, and a hand, small, soft, yet nerved with
all a woman's desperate energy-desperate in Love ! clutched
him by the hair, and dragged-triumphantly dragged him to
the hard and solid land, just over the ledge, on a winding path
at the foot of the overhanging cliff. It was Betsy Clark's
voice; it was Betsy Clark's hand ; it was she who. saved
him; and thus he received a new lease of life at the hands
of the very woman whom, in a former dream, he had sent so
gayly sailing down the empty air-down through four hund-
red feet of unobstructed space-with boulders at the bottom
--solid boulders of ante and quartz-gold-bearing quartz
at that, and very rich too, but still quite solid, and consider-
ably harder than was agreeable to either the woman, the
buggy, or the horse, for not one of them was
" Soft as downy pillows are--"
Not even Governor Downie'sof California, I mean !
It was, indeed, his wife's voice that he heard ; it was she
that rescued him from what, in very truth, was a most unfor-

rE BOsICnUcIAN's STORY.           73
tunate pickle-or 1nrine-as you choose, or both-.-but at all
events one into which he would never have got had he not
been far greener than a cucumber.
In a dream strange things come to pass. And in strict
accordance with the proprieties of that wierd life and Realm
-a life and Realm no less real than wierd-Tom was speedily
cared for, and emptied of the overplus of salt he had invol-
untarily imbibed, while Mrs. Clark carefully attended upon
him, and a score or two of assistant good people busied them-
selves in saving all they could from the wreck. After this
they all retreated to a fine and comfortable mansion, situated
on the summit of this cliff in the regions of Dream, and there
the following explanations took place: It appeared that
Betsey had been on a visit to her uncle, who kept the light-
house, and both of them had for several days been on the
look-out for the arrival of the vessel-the wrecked one--iu
which, some time previous, Tom had sailed on a voyage to
sHoney-Lu-Lu, the Bay of Fun-dee, or some other such place
as vessels trade to. The vessel had at last been descried,
laboring in the midst of a violent storm, just before dark,
Sandunder such circumstances as rendered it positively certain
that she would drive headlong upon the rocks at the foot of
the very cliff on which the lighthouse stood. By a singular
coincidence, perfectly unaccountable anywhere else, save in
Dream-land, BetseynClark had' learned to love Tom dearly
at the precise instant that he had discovered - and repented
his own great error. At the instant that Tom had declared
that, could he be spared, he would be a better man, she saw
his deadly peril ; the icicles began to melt around her heart,
-melt very fast-so that by the time she reached him. her
soul was in a glow of pure affection for the man she'had
until that moment, hated. She now saw, with unmitigated
astonishment, that, with all his faults, there was a mine of
excellent goodness; that God had not made anything either
perfect or imperfect; and that, after all was said or done,
he was of priceless consequence and value to her.
Human nature, and woman nature are very remarkable
institutions-especially the latter. We seldom value either
a man or woman, until they are either dead or a long way
off, and then---" Who'd a' thought it1"
When Clark awoke from the gentle sleep into which he
had fallen after the kind people had made him comfortable
when rescued from the danger, he found his head pillowed

0


74 *THE ROSIcRUCIANS sTORY.               -
on a bosom a great deal softer than down or l)onie's that
of his loving and tender wife--for she was so now, and no
mistake, in the full, true sense-A Wife I . . . . Tom Clark
got well, He never grew rich, and never wanted to. Ile
went to Santa Blarneo, and had both their pictures taken in
a single frame, on one canvass, and he hung it over the win-
dow in the little room - the little window at the foot of the
bed, whose upper sash was down.
Years rolled by. Long did they live in the enjoyment of a
domestic bliss, too great for expression or description ; a hap-
diness unsullied by an unworthy thought, unstained by any
blot; for it was full, pure, husbandly, wifely ; and daily.
hourly did they bless and learn to love each other more.
"Cease dreaming I" said Ilesperina,-the beautiful lHesperina.
the Genius of the Garden and the Star ;   Cease thy dream of
Perpetual Peace, and live to actualize it on thy way through
the World ! Cease dreaming. but awaken not. Remember
the counsel of Otanethi the radiant, Lord of the Temple - the
Spirit of the Ilour, and when thou xakest, TRY to be a nobler
and a better man. Waken not yet, 0, frail and weak, but
still sleep-sweetly, soundly sleep yet awhile ; and only wake
to be a full, true, loving main, forgiving and forgiven !"  And
then the peerless being waVed her hand over the prostrate
woman and lo ! her movements gave token that the strange
and mighty magic was felt, and that she was swiftly passiIg
the mystic Threshold of that -sphere of new and marvelous
activities, where the Dreanm Fay reigns supreme."
At this point of the story, a lady  Mrs. V., of Bath-in-
voked the narrators; attention, saying:  T'hul far, sir, your
story is an excellent one, and its moral is all that could be
desired ; yet, how comes it that you, who so strongly dep x-
(ate all human hatred and unkindness, are yet. in a neasure.
amenable to the very thing ron deery ? In the proem to
the remarkable story y ouh ne been reiting, you have ad-
mitted that there was one man toaxards whom your soul felt
bitter. Is this right ? Is it just to yourself,'your foe. the
world, or God ?  Answer ice   ' The Rosicrucian studied
awhile, and then replied: "It is not right or just, and yet it
is very hard to forgive, much less to forget, a cool, deliberate
injury, such as I suffered, at the pen, and hand, and tongue
of the man alluded to in the introduction of my story. It
is hard to forget-" "and still harder to forgive," said one
of our company, a rather young looking man, who had been

rEliSRUAN S S'l ian.             75
one of the speaker's most attentive auditors.; le!spoke
with so much passion. that it was not difficult to see that
himself was the one he alluded to in the brief story he
straightway told, by way of illustrating his affirmation, Said
the stranger, whom I will call " the Angular Character," "It
is hard to forgive or forget. Few people in the world are
capable of long continued love in a single direction, unless
self-trained ; fewer still of deliberate, long continued hatred,
and fewer still are competent to full, free, unqualified for-
giveness. 1 a  not. In all my experience, I never knew
but one man in whom unqualified Hatred was a paramount
King-passion, over-riding and surviving all others whatsoever.
I will tell you that man's story as he told it'to me, for he
was a friend of mine whom I early loved, and who loved
me in return. One day I asked him to open his heart to me,
which, after a while, he did as follows, saying: 'Listen
while I briefly sketch the story of my life. There was a man
who, because I differed with him on questions of Philosophy
-for he claimed to be God's private secretary, which claim
all sensible people laughed at, and only weaklings listened
to and believed-he, this man, for this cause, called in ques-
tion, not only myself, but the fair fame of the mother who
bore me-that mother being already dead ; and for this I
hate him, as roses hate the foul malarious swamps of earth.
The blazoned motto of that man was-Let no man call God
his Father, who calls not man his brother. I rose in the
world, and he hated me for the talent God gave me. Envy !
I was in a sense his rival, and as such, this man, snake-like,
used his very utmost influence ;and power, by tongue and
pen, to injure me- and did-for he took the breadsfrom my
children by depriving me of employment. I wrote a pamphlet,
under a nom de plume, and he joyfully exposed my secret.
Jealousy. He attacked me personally, grossly in his paper,
misrepresented well known facts--LIED I Robbing me of fair
fame, as he had my dead mother before me. It is impossible
for A to forgive B for a crime against C. I hated him for the
dead one's sake ; that hate I once thought would survive my
death, and be the thing next my heart through all the Eter-
nities. Perhaps it will not. He crushed me for a time, but
'Je renais de mes cendresl' We two are yet in the World.
Ile will not forget it! Will I?  Never !-for the sake of
my dead mother. I can overlook his crimes toward me,
but before the Bar 1 hold him ever accountable for the injury


THE ROSIORUQIAN'S STORY.
to her-and to my little ones, who nearly starved, while this
Bend of hell, in the garb of heaven, triumphed in my misery,
and gloated over their wrongs. I am the watchful proxy-.
the rightful Nemesis, of the living and the Dead ! I put forth
books to the world. This demon in saint's garb, and his
minions howled them down as bloodhounds do the panting
slave. More bread lost to my hungry ones, more justice
calling for reprisals. All men have foes. I had ; and this
man-this impostor, this conscienceless outrager of the dead
and starver of little children, listened gladly, and covertly
published their statements-and that when he morally knew
them to be as false as his own black, polygamous, scoundrel
heart. More wrong done, more little pale hands reaching
vainly forth for bread ; and more hatred laid up for him and
his minions at the bottom of my heart of hearts, the core
and center of my soul 1"
Thus he spake, and the man's eyes flashed fire as the
words escaped him, proving that they were not the impulsive
utterances of temper, but the deep and cherished results of
long and bitter years of feeling. Said I: "And does this
feeling demand a physical atonement ?" With a look of
ineffable scorn, he replied: "Not for an empire's scepter
would I harm a single hair of that man's head. Were his
wife in a burning building, I would rescue her, or perish in
the trial; were his children-but, thank God, he cannot
propagate his species-Monsters never do 1-but had he such,
and they were hungry, I would work till I fell from exhaus-
tion, in the effort to procure them bread: were the man him-
self in want or danger, I would joyously risk my life to save
or serve him. Why? Because my revenge is one that eould
not be appeased by blood. It is too vast-too deep-and I
will wreak it in other worlds, a myriad ages from now. To
this I pledge my very soul; and when hereafter I point him
to what I am, and what he has brought me to, I will thun-
der in the ears of his spirit, in the very presence of the
Judge, 'THOU ART THE MAN 1 Wherever he may be, in
the Vault, or in the Space, there will I be also. Nor can this
feeling die before he shall undo his doing, and---no matter
what. At length this feeling of mine grew strong. I loved.
It drowned all love. I was ambitious, and ambition paled
before it. I had wealth within my reach, and forgot the
shining gold in the superior brilliance of the pole star of
my passion against the soul of this man, not against his

THE RosIRUCIIAN's sTORY.             77
body. And then I said :--I will rise from my ashes. I will
win fame and name:-I, the angular character, will rise, and
in my dealings with this fiend will be as remorseless and
bitter as the quintessence of Hate; I will suffer patiently,
and mount the steeps of fame, and then will I ring the bells
at the door of the world till all the peoples wake, and then,
then will I launch him down the tide of time in his own true
colors-stripped to the center, and show him to the Ages for
the monster that he is. This is a revenge worthy of our im-
mortal being ; one that merely extends to the physical per-
son is such as brutes enjoy, but is not full, broad, deep and
enduring enough for a man. As for his minions, they are
too contemptible to engage my attention for a moment ; but
in their master's soul will I fix my talons so deep, that an
eternity shall not witness their extraction; and henceforth
I dedicate all my life to the one purpose of avenging the
dead !"
Five years rolled by after this recital, when again, in a
foreign land, we met each other. In the meantime he had
}    grown gray. His foe still attacked him; he had never once
replied, but his hatred had crystalized in the center of his
soul, and, said he, "I can wait a million years; but revenged
I will be yet, by the Life of God !' Bitter words were these
and they were spoken with such a verve--such a vehemence
;    of passion, that not one man or woman on the quarter-deck
of that steamer doubted for an instant that himself was the
injured one, himself the vehement hater, notwithstanding
his implied disclaimer. We saw that he fully, deeply, felt all
he gave utterance to ; and never, until that moment, did
I comprehend the awful depths and capacity of the human
soul for either love or hatred ; nor had any of us, even the
Rosicrucian, the faintest idea but that every word of his awful
threat came from his heart ; nor the slightest doubt that if
there were a possibility of wreaking his revenge in the World
to come, that he would find that possibility, and remorse-
lessly execute it. I may say, en passant, that two years
afterwards I met the same man in a foreign land, and his
}   sentiments were precisely as then, only, if possible, far
deeper. Said the Rosicrucian, as the man finished his terri-
ble recital: " This episode comes in quite apropos to my own
story's moral. It is well to beware, lest we, by some act or
word of ours, so deeply plant the germ of hatred, that in
after years it spring up to annoy us, and mar our peace of


7[8             THE ROSIoRUCIAN's STOET.
mind. Now, I have some knowledge of the soul, and am
firmly'convinced that the man who has just left us' means
all that he says ; nor would I incar so dreadful a penalty as
that man's hatred, for all the diadems in the terraqucous
globe. His passion is not insanity, else he would, by an as
sault, or by slander, seek its satisfaction. But his feeling is
the offspring of a sense of outraged justice on the part of the
man he hates. I have not the least doubt that the object of
his spleen laughs at the man. But Revenge will outlive
laughter, wealth, position, influence-all things, when of the
nature -of the present case. . . . But see, the sun is setting
again, and the conclusion of our story must be deferred until
after supper, when, if you will again assemble here upon the
quarter-deck, you shall learn what befell Mr. Thomas W.,
and what other events transpired in the little chamber with
a window at the foot of the bed, whose upper sash was down.

Li G  Z  [ il4 1 3 s Y 5I'i  i^79

BE'SE Y CLARK IN DREAM-LAND.
2'   aet tt t, :1 or . c  mIi   t madles
V l:  'grass quill,
': y os -jrioe by trade-
-+      1     ( e . I love
I in     ix-: -jcens ly ;
i  *  *!:1 1  - "i   ' i  A} '  ' '  0   e ( i a g   f4l ' '
tiNotes and Queries.
S I e   voij' just as did the writer of these lines," said the
loicuitan. as he begin his recital in the cabin of the
" iUle Sam," after partaking of what the purveyors of that
steaisiip lie, in the rich exuberance of their facetious
iutniginations they; were pleased to call a supper, declaring
that there wa::,s enough, and that that was good.  We had all
en hettr rifare at oneto-third the price; and it would be better
for all of us if that belief was universal. and demonstrated
practically every day.
Betsey Clark was 'reaming: It was morning, and the
glorious face of the sun shone in unclouded splendor over the
world-this world, w-hii, to the good man and woman. is
ever a world of G oot and Beauty, viewed from the God-side,
whatever it may he from the huiuan. All things were prais-
ing Him-at least all dumb things were, for men so intently
adore their Lares and Penates-Dollars and Dimes, that they
have scarcely time to devote a worshipful thought to Him
who is King of kings, and regnant God of gods.. . . Nature
was arrayed in gala robes ; she had put aside her frowns,
and now smiled sweetly on the world, decked gayly in pearls
and light ; she was on her way to attend the weddings of
the flowers and the birds. Betsey Clark was a blithe young
girl again. In her dream she was gaily tripping o'er the lea,


80 TI              RosIcRUcIAN'S STORY.
her happy heart swelling and palpitating with strange emo-
tions-she was a budding virgin now, and her heart over-
flowed with innocence and love, accompanied with that pure,
but strange, wild discontent, and longing for, she knew not
what, but something, which all young women feel, and are
conscious of, as they pass the golden barrier that divides
their youth from womanhood. It is, and was, the holy and
chaste desire to love, and be loved in return-from the heart,
Sir, right straight from the heart ! Ah, how I sometimes
wish I had been created a girl, instead of a-. Bah !
What's the use of wishing? especially when all the girls
desire an opposite transmigration. . . . Betsey,s bloom out-
rivaled the blushes of the newly-wedded roses-roses just
married to sunlight, in the morning dew, with all the trees
for witnesses, and all the birds to swell the sounding chorus !
And she was happy ; ah, how full of happiness ! and yet it
was slightly dashed with bitterness-just a twang of gall in
her cup of honey-for she imagined a more perfect state, had
vague dreamings of something still higher. So have we all.
We have it ! and that is a certain sign that that higher some-
thing is attainable, if we only try. Some one said he wanted
to eat his friend. Good! but I want to lose myself in another
self-to make of them twain a unit, which is better!l or to
thus blend, and then lose ourself in the great God-life, which
is Best! . . . And she gaily tripped over the lea. She was
going with a pitcher of cream, and a basket of fresh eggs,
toward a hole in the rock, not a great way off, to present
them to the strange "Hermit of the Silver Girdle," who
dwelt within the little grotto just upon the edge of a forest
wild, hard by her girlhood's home.... Now, be it henceforth
known to everybody, and to everybody's son or daughter--
if the fact is not already patent unto them-that all females
between the ages of fifteen and twenty-three, are naturally,
spontaneously, and inevitably in love ; and all that is then
wanting, is a suitable and worthy object to lavish it upon.
If she finds such, well and good; but whether she does, or
not, still she must, and will pour it out-either healthily-
or otherwise--a cat or a man ; a poodle or politics ; mar-
riage, or a mirror. Between those ages the female heart is
just as full of love as an egg is full of meat ; nor can she
help it; it is the birth of affection, love, romance-the en-
deared and endearing spring-tide of life and emotion.- Alas !
that the tide too often ebbs, never never to rise again this

THE ROSICRUOIANS STORV.              81
side of the grave ! Then, in the rich exuberance of her inno-
cence and purity, woman, unlike man at the same age, thinks
no wrong, fears no harm. Gentle, trustful, noble girl !
Blessed is he who then calls her to himself-who, in the
morning of his life, and her own, shall win, and worthily
wear, her heart; and abased, indeed, is he who then shall
gaze upon her with unhallowed eyes, and seek to lure her
from the path of honorable womanhood!-
Presently the girl reached the Hermit's abode, saluted the
reverend man, presented her welcome gift, and' received on
bended knee his blessing in return.
They conversed awhile, did that fair girl and that strange
recluse; the hermit stood on this side, the maiden stood on
that. "Daughter," said he, as he placed his white palms
upon-her beaming forehead, "the world and all it contains
amount to but little, if it, and they, be not improved to the
utmost-the attainment of 'the soul's aliment, knowledge,
which it assimilates and digests into Wisdom. I have par-
taken of that food for fourscore years and ten--have con-
verted it into wisdom, and expect to be thus engaged during
long centuries to come. Thou seest me living here alone,
dependent upon the charities of such as thou: poor in Cali-
fornia, where even the rocks are retained by golden wedges in
their places, and where diamonds sparkle in an hundred
valleys. Thou seest me shut out from the busy world, and
drawing life from Charity-and Heaven. Such an existence
is suitable for me, but not for such as thou art. I am a stu-
dent. and professor of a strange and mighty magic, for I pos-
sess the marvelous Mirror, and the still more wondrous
crystal Globe-both of which are heirlooms of the early
foretime, handed down the ages to me, as I in turn shall
bequeath them to the ages yet to be. But thou 1 thou'rt a
woman, and cannot afford to shut thyself out from life, soci-
ety and pleasure, as Rosicrucians do, and must, if they would
obtain the kingdom, the Password-that uplifts the sable
curtains that hide a dozen worlds-and the Key, by which
the Doors of Mystery are opened. Child, for thee there are
more fitting things in store than the upper knowing-better
than solitude ; higher charms than study, and abstruse pon-
dering over recondite lore, and subtle laws of Being and of
Power. Thou in thy way, I in mine, are. and must be,
soldiers in the strife for holy peace; toilers for the millions
yet unborn ; Mechanics for redemption of the world ; active


8ATHE ROSICRUCIAN sSTORY.
bees- in the busy hive, thou of active human life, I that of
human destiny; together, marchers in the grand army whose
movement is ever Onward, and which never looks behind. I
strive for the Useful; thy destiny tends towards the Beau-
tiful. Together, we shall reach the goal of G ood ; moving
over thorny roads, albeit, on the way ; for there are many
dangerous pitfalls, deep molasses, dismal swamps. gloomy
forest solitudes, and stony mountains, steep and slippery,
that bar man's path to happiness. 'Prepare ye the way....
Make His paths straight!' Such is thy business-rand mine.
To accomplish this duty I am here but a different field is
thine to labor in. To achieve thy destiny thou must place
thine affections upon a son of man-thy soul's great love on
(lod alone. You must wed, bear children i great agony,
yet gloriously, to your husband, your country, and to Huin.
And I will now, by nmans o the higher magic of the elmple,
and which power I an able to use fn thy behalf, show you
the figure of a man whom yon will hereafter marry. You
shall behold him as he is; aS he v:/1- b anvd as he may be-
come---provided you choose to male limt o ; for a husband
is ever cowl al wayis ,j u$!~  e a      ~         I amt
now about to dsplaya piiatina of the 1   C-
Observe, and note well all thou mi bysl blol.    not
thereof to vain worlling,  ho annU t comeV bir teepl
mysteries, such as these ; ubove al!,  er -ot one -ig-
word while thou   ittest at yaondr table.     itn e i  tie
amazing depths of th. Fu'ul*ierevealing' CitIGl (olte
And so say ing, the grey hermit of the silver girdle. who
dwelt in a forest wilt, led the way to a recess of the grotto.
where the light was vet y subdued, very dim, and exceedingll
religions. There lhe seated her before a tripod, supporting a
triangular shelf or table, himself taking a seat directly oppo-
site. Upon this table he then placed a small, square, (lark-
leathern box, opening on brass hinges across the sides and top.
He oflied it, while reiterating his caution, and disclosed to
the enraptured gaze of the doubly-delighted girl-all girls
are delighted lbieo they get their husbands-and many of
them are considerably delighted-if not more so, to get rid
of them afteraarls '--a magnificent globe of pare crystal.
clear as a dew-drop, radiant as a sunbeam. It was not over
four inches in diameter, was a perfect sphere, and was alto-
gether beautiful--in this respect, infinitely transcending
F      that of a soap-bubble of the same size-a humble compari-

THE ROSICRUCIAN9 STORY.              83
son, but a just one-for there are few things more beautiful
than these self-same soap-bubbles!.... The first impulse of
the girl wts to handle this beautiful trine-as it was called;
and she made a moyement with that intent, but was instantly
prevented by the hermit in gray, who said : c"Not for a hun-
dred husbands, should mortal fingers touch that sphere; for
such contact would instantly rob it of its virtues, perhaps
never to be regained ! Look, my daughter, look, but touch
not !" . . . . She obeyed, and withdrew her hand, but re-
gretfully ; for her fingers itched severely-as what young
woman's would not, under similar circumstances.  Vide the
Apple and Eve-by means of which, man fell-but fell up-
hill, nevertheless ! A great trait, is this curiosity ; and it is
perfectly safe to say, that, leave a box near a woman, and tell
~ her not to open it, and ten to one she has fully investigated
its contents within an hour ! It is woman's nature ; it is her
great prerogative: But for her, man would have been ex-
ceedingly diminutive esculents. She looked into matters and
things generally, induced him to follow her example, and
thus was the main lever that lifted the race out of Barbarism,
and into civilization and decency. So much for this much-
abused 'Female curiosity."  But for it, man had remained
a brute. With it, he has risen to a position a long way be-
low the angels, to be sure, but then he is "Coming Up I"
The twain now began to gaze steadily at the magic globe,
maintaining perfect silence for the space of ten minutes.
All was still, hushed, silent as the grave, and only the wild
throbbings of the young girl's heart could be heard. Pres-
ently the crystal began to change, and to emit faint streams
of pale light, which gradually became more pronounced and
distinct, until finally there was a most magnificent play of
colors all over its surface.  Presently the rich,.effulgent
scintillas. the concentric, irridescent flashings previously ob-
served. ceased entirely, and in their stead the girl began to
notice two very strange and extraordinary appearances,
which, to her and to all save those who are familiar with
such mysteries (and which, although nearly unknown in this
country, are still quite common in the farther East), are to-
tally unaccountable. In the first place, she became conscious
that she was breathing an atmosphere highly charged with
a subtle aura that manifestly emanated from the body of the
crystal itself. This air was entirely different front that which
floated in the grotto an hour before, when she entered with


TN$ "RSSICnUCIAN'S 3TO1tY.             854

84            THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

her offering. The air was.unmistakably charged, and that,
too, very heavily, with a powerful magnetic aura, which un-
questionably radiated from the exquisitely-polished surface
of the crystalline "sphere. I said "magnetic ;" I should have
said "magnetoid," for whereas the former induces drowsy
feeling and somnolence, the latter had a purely opposite
effect, for it provoked wakefulness, and promoted greater and
intensified vigilance on the part of both the woman and the
man.
In the second place, there camera remarkable change in
the crystal itself; fbr, having lost its brilliant, diamond-like
colors and interchanging rainbow spray, it now became de-
cidedly opalescent, speedily passing into the similitude of a
ball of clear glass, with a disc of pearly opal transversely
through its center. Very soon even this changed, until it
became a dead white wall, upon the surface of which the eye
rested, without the power of penetration as before. Gazing
steadily upon this opaque frame, the girl in a short time dis-
tirtly and perfectly beheld, slowly moving across that pearly
shield, as if instinct with life, numerous, petite, but unmis-
takable human figures I-figures of men and women, tiny to
the last degree, but absolutely perfect in outline and move-
ment . . . . And they moved hither and thither across the
field of vision; she saw them moving through the streets of a
city-a little closer ! As I live, they are going up and down
Bush street I- an aristocratic thoroughfare in the great city
known in this story as Santa Blarneeo. This fact she in-
stantly recognized, with that strange and inexplicable an-
achronism peculiar to Dreams, and the still stranger incon-
sistency peculiar to dreamers and voyagers to the Summer
Land-of which latter I have much more to say, in another
story, by-and-by-a very curious story-all about riding on
electrical rivers, moon beams, horse-flies, and secretary-
birds -all very "funny," all very strange-when I tell it,
by-and-by. My time has not come ; but it will, for I'm
" coming up I"
Gradually these tiny figures appeared to enlarge, or rather
she saw them in such a perspective, that they looked like
full-sized persons some little distance off. Even while she
gazed, the crystal changed again, or, rather, vanished from
her perceptions altogether, the figures enlarged- approached,
as it were-and she became a passive spectator of a scene at
that moment transpiring - but where ?   Certainly not in

I

.
1u
ti
,g

h

k    this world of ours, nor in Dream Land, nor in Fancy's realms
nor in the home of souls you read about in the "very funny"
3    descriptions of "Starnos and 'Cor, nor in " Guptarion," nor
around the "Lakes of Mornia," nor among the "Pyrami-
dalia," nor in " Saturn," nor in any of the gloriously ridicu-
lour localities imagined by A. J. Davis, and put forth by him
in the delusive hope that any sane man or woman could be
found green or fool enough to swallow. Few men better
deserve the name of impostor than the author of "Guptari-
on," "Mornia,1" " Foli," ""'Starnos, "Galen," "Magic
Staffs," " Harm-only Man," and "'Cor."
"Where, then," you ask. And I answer, and I tell you,
in the identical words of the strange Hermit of the Silver
Girdle, when explaining it to Egtsey Clark: All these
strange things are occurring, not in any sort of phantom-
.world, but in another material earth, quite as solid as this on
which we are this hour sailing from San Francisco to Pan-
ama. And the crystal of the Hermit in this dream, and the
similar crystals of my brother Charles, and my own, and
others of our wondrous Brotherhood, serve but as telescopes
-magic, it is true, but still as telescopes, revealing to the
initiated all the marvels of that other sphere of being whereof
1 have hinted, and am now about to briefly speak.
Listen ! Space is by no means limitless, but is a globular
or elliptical, definite region-the play-ground of the Powers-
and is bounded on all sides with a thick amorphous wall, of
the materials of which new worlds and starry systems from
time to time are fashioned. This wall is thicker, a million-
fold, than the diameter of the entire menstruum wherein this
universe is floating.. Surrounding this universe, on all sides of
this wall, are seven other universes, separated as is this, from
all the others ; and they all differ from our own and the rest,
as differs a volcano from a sprig of rosemary-that is to say,
utterly-totally. The material worlds of each of these other
universes outnumber the sands of the desert, yet their num-
ber is precisely that of the Realm in which we live; but they
are larger, for the earth that corresponds to, and bears the
name of this of ours, is, in the smallest of the other universes,
quite as bulky as the sun which gives us light-- and the other
solar bodies in proportion. The universe next higher is im-
measurably larger than the one just alluded to. It has the
same number of material worlds, and the earth corresponding
to this of ours is as large as the solar system in which we


t  86TIIJ IU)1Uk~4AAN~ STNY.THE I?0SICITIAN'S STORY.                                            8

are. That of the third is as large as the solar system of the
second, and so on to the last of the series of seven ; but not
the last in fact, for outside of, and surrounding the entire
seven, is another wall, separating them from forty-nine other
systems, in ascending grade. I cannot now give you any in-
formation respecting the sublime realities of these forty-nine,
nor of the regions and realms STILL BEYOND; for I must
have a dispensation from the Grand Master, to enable me to
do that-therefore I recall your attention to this world and
sphere of being.
On earth there are seven distinct classes or orders of men:
the INsTINcTUAL, ATFECTIONAL, INTELLECTUAL, INTUITIONAL,
ASPIRING, INDI ERENT, and WIsE-to all of whom a differ-
ent destiny is    d. Organizations determine destinies!..
Every nebulae    in the far-off heaven is a system of worlds.
That wonderf         of stars to which our sun belongs, is,
with all its  erfl  g measure of star-dust, but a single cos-
mos; and there are yiiads of such within the confines of this
present universe, d before we cross the vast ocean of
Ethylle, an  reach  he Wall alluded to. All things are in
halves: male, female negative, positive-light, dark-and so
on. So is t  nebulae   worlds to which we belong. Now,
remember     at I have s id of the resemblances between this
earth and   iverse and the seven others beyond the Wall.
Precisely such likenesses exist between the worlds of the
respective halves of our own system.......At various dis-
tances, flecking the vault, we behold suns and systems innu-
merable. These all belong to this, the female half of our
system. Beyond them lies a vast ocean of Ether, separating
the Continents. Across that Ocean, at % distance incomputa-
ble by the human intellect, is the male half of our system.
There-there is a sun precisely as large, as brilliant, and as
hot as ours-and no more so. Around that sun fiery comets
whirl, planets revolve, and meteors flash, just as they do
hitherward. There is a Venus, Mercury, Asteroids, Mars,
Jupiter, and all the other planetary bodies, just as here, and
of the same dimensions. A globe there is called Earth ; it
has a moon, an Atlantic, Pacific, Mediterranean, and other
seas, exactly equivalent to ours. It has a California, a San
Francisco, Paris, Berlin, Munich, Boston, New York, Phila-
delphia, Baltimore, Pittsburgh, just as here ; and their names,
as are those of its trees, countries, counties, towns, people,
capitals, are exactly as on this earth. There is a President

;
=i
;y
t
,
.
i
T ,

Lincolu, and General Fremont ; a Thurlow  ced, and Cul-
len Bryant ; an Agassiz, and Horace G eeley; Atlantic
Monthly, and Harper's Magazine ; a New rk Mercur an
Independent, edited by Beecher, Tilton an( Leavitt-and
they deal the same ponderous blows at Wrong as do their
similitudes here. The streets and omnibuses are precisely as
here: Wall street is as full of thieves, and contractors get fat
off their country's gore as they do here. There is a Rebel-
lion there, and Union Generals sell themselves to Treason
just as here-while the men who could and would save the
nation are left out in the cold, in spite of the Banners of
Light, Tribunes, Posts, Times and Heralds of Progress
all of which long since pointed out the road to Richmond and
to victory-and are laughed at just as in our planet.
In that far distant world there is at this moment a
steamer, "Uncle Sam," sailing across the Gulf of California
as at this moment we are ; and on board of her there are just
as many men and women as on this one ; and their persons,
names, habits, features, motives, hopes, fears, characters
secrets, and intellectual and moral natures, are precisely
the same as our own, on board this ship. Our namesakes
there are at this instant doing, thinking, acting, reading, as
are we ; and sonic of them are listening to a very strange
story, and its still stranger episodes, told by a Rosicirucian-
just such a mysterious personage as myself-indeed, my Very
Self--in the self-same form and feature. And I say, and I
tell you that the alte- ego-the living portrait of each man
and woman in this circle is thinking of him or herself, and of
Me and my revelations, at this moment, with the same stupid
levity, with the same deep and awful impression of their
truth, in the same manner, whatever it be, as are all of you
at this moment. And some there, as here, set me and my
revealments at naught-stigmatize me as fool or madman,
moon-struck enthusiast, or dreaming poet, as do some of
you. Others believe my truths. You have heard that com-
mg events cast their shadows before them; and that Proph-
ecy has been demonstrated true. Behold the solution of the
world-enigma. Events transpire in that other world a trifle
sooner than they do here ; yet you must remember that
there ,is a vast interval of space, and therefore time, that
must be bridged by even that swift courier, Sympathy. Ac-
cording as a man there, and his counterpart here are fine
aspiring and spiritual-minded, so is their rapport across the

Id
Kt

;$
x''
,3
i
. °
' rt
,

Tier; ItOtsiux (Jv1AN'IM STORY.

t 86

87


88

THE RosIcEUcIANIs STORY.

awful gulph, and the one telegraphs the other-often a long
time before the event becomes actualized on this earth. You
have heard of Fays and Fairies ! Listen, and learn the truth
concerning them: Remembering that no human soul can by
any possibility quit the confines of this universe, until it has
exhausted the whole of its-the universe's resources, and has
attained all of Love, Will, Majesty, Power, Wisdom and Dig-
nity, that this vast cosmos can give it ; after which, it sleeps
awhile, but will awake again to the exercise of Creative
Energy, on the thither side of the wall-both duplicates
sleep at once-for after their deaths on the material earths,
they exist apart, but sustain the same relations, in certain
aromal worlds attached to their respective primary homes.
At the final deaths, they blend forever, their stature is in-
creased, and they enter through the Wall, that earth resem-
bling the one whereon the double unit had its birth originally.
. .. You have heard of Metempsychosis, Transmigrations, or
Reincarnations, and of Progress. Listen, and learn more :
Not only the inhabitants of. the countless myriads of worlds
in this material and aromal universe, but also the material
and aromal worlds themselves, are in a constant state of
progressive movement. By aromal worlds, I mean the aerial
globes that attend each planet. They are places where souls
rest awhile after death, before they commence in earnest the
second stage of their career ; and this state is an interme-
diate one, just like sleep, only that they are conscious and
active while there; but it is an activity and consciousness,
not like, but analogous to that of Dream. Every world, and
assemblage of worlds, is periodically reduced, by exhaustion,
but at enormously long intervals, into Chaos, and is then re-
formed, or created anew, still, however, being the same
world. After this passage, each system and world becomes
vastly more perfect than before ; but, owing to the dimin-
ished quantity of Spirit, or essence, which has been con-,
sumed in giving birth to hosts of immortal armies, each
system and world is vastly smaller than before. This is for
two reasons, one of which I have just stated ; the other is,
in order to make room for new cosmi, and new worlds, both
of which are being constantly created from the material of
the wall, and the wall itself is the condensed effluence of the
Maker-in short, it is God-Od- and therefore inexhaustible.
The majority of those who have lived on any world are re-
born in it after its restitution, they in the meantime having

THE ROSICRUCIAN s STORY.               89
grown correspondingly clean and perfect. The same relative
proportions between a world and its occupants is still pre-
served, and never varies, and consequently the six foot man,
and the five foot woman, find themselves, at maturity, occu-
pying five, and four foot bodies, respectively. The present is
our thirty-four th Incarnation. Originally, we were taller
than many of our present trees, and coarser than our moun-
tains. We are smaller, and better than ever before; and our
worst man is better than the best of the preceding state.
The worst. in the next change, will be better than our best.
To illustrate, let me say that the following persons, viz.:
T- W-, A- L-, Russel L -, Bennett, G-, R-, Cullen
B-, Dr. H-, Jeff Davis, James Buchanan, Wigfall, F-,
Dr. C-; Secretaries W-     and U-; McC-, L--, C-,
} Lizzie D- and myself, respectively, were, previously to the
last change: the first, a feudal lord ; the second, an editor ;
the third, a Danish prince; the fourth, a court-jester; the
fifth, a missionary ; the sixth, a generalissimo; the seventh,
a harpist; the eighth, a theatrical manager ; the ninth, a
knife-grinder ; the tenth, a privateer ; the eleventh, a dis-
tiller; the twelfth, a schoolmaster ; the thirteenth, a trum-
peter ; the fourteenth, a politician; the fifteenth, a hunter ;
the sixteenth, a very little boy-died, exceedingly young ;
the seventeenth, an emperor ; the eighteenth, a born queen;
and the last, a barber's clerk ; so that it is evident, that
though our progress is slow, still, that we are "Coming
up." Little as our actual worth may be, still, we are better
now, generally speaking, than in the former stage.* Thus,
we will grow smaller at every change. Some worlds, and
their people, have thus decreased, and being sometimes seen
by people here, have been called fays or fairies. The world
has yet to undergo some thousands of these changes, until,
at last, we become very small, indeed, which will occur when
* Extremes meet, The sublime impinges on the ridiculous. The
above-save only that I have changed the names-was put forth
seriously as truth, by a recent British author. Here, of course, it
is but a "nice bit of Fancy." Viewed in one light, the notion is
almost as absurd as are the desperately funny lucubrations of
Andrew Jackson Davis, concerning what he calls the "Summer
Land," which many people regard as true revelations of Man's
Post-mortem life, when, in fact, they are monstrous abortions, de-
void of even common sense, and are without one particle of truth
from beginning to end, as I intend to prove in a work I am prepar-
ing expressly on the subject.-[Tn AUrnon.


90

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

conception is no longer possible on the earth, either in the
vegetable or animal world ; and then will occur the change
and transference beyond the Wall. . . . Betsey Clark was
beholding persons and events of that other world-half of
this, our little staying-houses beholding things through
that fairy lense-that beautiful, magic crystal, through which
the human eye can see, the human brain, sense, things that
have occurred, are occurring, or are to occur, upon the
world-stage of this, our life's theater. . . . It is an estab-
lished fact that fools never dream! Wise people often do !
And those belonging to the latter category cannot have failed
to notice that things, dates, persons, circumstances and prob-
abilities, are considerably mixed up, as a general thing, in
dreams. Their anachronisms are especially remarkable-
and provoking, and indicate that time is of but little, if any,
account, so far as the soul, per se, is concerned. A dream of
a minute often embraces the multifarious experiences of a
century. This instant you are hob-nobbing with one
of the Pre-Adamite Kings, on the plateaus of Eastern
Asia; and. in the next, are taking wine with Pharaoh and
Moses, on the banks of the Nile. Now, you are delivering
an oration before Alexander the Great ; and, in a jiffy, find
yourself stuffing ballots on Cornhill, in an.election for ard-
constable. Now, you are contemporary with Sardanap lus,OA
or Thothmes III.; and, in half a second, you are delive-ing
a " Spiritual Lecture" in Lamartine Hall, having paid fifty
cents for the privilege of listening to your own "Splendid
and Overpowering Eloquence."   Taken altogether, dreams,
like Complimentary Benefits, are queer concerns. Such was
that of Betsey Clark; for, at one moment of time, she was
a virgin girl, a wife, a widow, and a wife again. She recog-
nized, at once, the facts of her girlhood, that she had care-
fully deposited one husband in a hole in the ground, and was
in high hopes of performing the same kind office for a
second-Mr. Thomas W.
Presently the view of Santa Blarneo in the crystal,~faded
away, and, in its stead, there came the appearance of a large
and splendid atelier, containing numberless statues, in a more
or less finished condition, standington pedestals, or in niches
round the wall-sides. The sculptor was absent. It was evi-
dent, at a glance, that his images were not hewn of marble,
but of some other material, which needed but a touch of fire
to make them start up into life, liberty and light. It was a

I!

THE RiOSICRUIANIS STORY.

91

man-factory-- a place where people were carve! out to order
by a wonderful Artist, who had just opened business there-
abouts, and who, judging from appearances, was already in a
fair line of patronage, and quite likely to do well, if not
better. . . . Standing near the center of the apartment,
propped up with bits of wood, Betsey saw the exact like-
ness, in all respects, of Mr. Thomas Clark-but the figure
was unfinished-soft, puttyish, and doughy as a Northern
Politician-that is to say, it looked as if it wanted to be
carried out and buried, without the benefit of clergy-as all
doughfaces ought to be. . . . This statue stood semi-erect,
and strongly suggested an invalid kitten, leaning on a hot
brick ; or, a modern philosopher of the spread-eagle and Pro-
gressive school, when the contributions are small; or, an
anxious lover, who would-if he could, but he couldn't-
marry a girl and her papa's bank-book in the same ceremony.
This figure was labeled, on the breast, " Toni Clark, as he
was;" that is to say, soft, ductile, capable of being moulded
into the Ruffian or the Man. Directly beside it was another
statue, closely resembling the other in many points, but yet
different. It was labeled, " Tom Clark, as he is !" that is
to say, it looked as if abundantly capable of feeding on ten-
penny nails, dining on files, and supping upon pigs of iron. It
looked, for all the world, as if the greatest possible favor that
could be done for it, would be to tread on the taof its coat,
or knock a chip off its shoulder. It-looked as if ifs supreme
delight would be to be permitted to wrap itself in a star-
spangled banner ; move across the room in three strides and
a straddle ; fire off two horse-pistols, and die like a son of
a-gun, after .having exercised a special penchant for Di-
vorced women-separating two wives from their husbands-
the one for the sake of position and wealth, the other for
beauty and lust. It looked as if it was troubled about
stealing rain-producing theories-not for stealing, but for
being caught at it. It looked as if its heart was breaking,
because it had not brains enough to be a Pantarch-or the
tenth part of one. It looked as if its heart would burst with
envy, because other men had friends, and power, and ap-
plause, and merit, in spite of its little, peeked-up, seven-by-
nine, skull-cracked soul-poor soul-cambric, needle-eyed
soul, twelve hundred and eighty trillions to the half ounce.
It looked, for all the world,'as Tom really did the very last
time he came home, just before they lay down upon their


92             THE RoSICRUCIAN 'S STORY.
couch, iqi the little chamber in which was the little window,
'whose upper sash was down-that is to say, short, crusty,
crisp, and meaner than "git," as he felt before they both layn
down, and dreamed such " very funny " dreams-Mean,
despicable, iron-hearted Tom Clark, the plague of her life,
bane of her existence, and source of all her troubles. So at
least it seemed to the lady in her curious vision. Presently
both these figures slowly faded from her sight, and in their
stead there arose through the floor a third figure, labeled,
" Tom Clark, as he may be." While she was admiring the
vast superiority, in all respects, of this new statue, a fourth
human figure.entered the atelier ; this figure was alive, and,
mirabile dictu / the woman beheld the exact counterpart
of-herself!-clad as a working artist-a sculptor, with
apron, paper-cap, and dusty clothing, all complete, as if she
had just left chiseling the dead inarble. This lemur of her-
self appeared deeply gratified at the appearance of the
statue ; for, after surveying it awhile, she proceeded to arm
herself with a flame-tipped baton, wherewith she instantly
touched the figure in various places, but mainly on the head,
and over the region of the heart. The effect of these touches
of flame was to make the figure move ; and, in five minutes,
the dead mass was warm with life, vitality and genius-for
the phantom-artist appeared to endow the figure with a por-
tion of her own life ; and, a closer inspection revealed the
curious fact that the flame at the end of the staff-which was
hollow-was fed from a deep well of subtle, fine and inflam-
mable ether in her own heart. The statue lived. It was Tom
Clark, and no mistake ; but Heaven ! what a change !-what
a difference between the actual and the ideal man! His
features fairly blazed with the fires of Genius and Ambition;
and they beamed like a sun, with Friendship, Intelligence,
Truth and Manhood-they all held high court in his soul,
and radiated from his inspired features ; his very presence
charged the air with Mind, though his lips spoke never a
word; breathed never a syllable. And now Betsey heard
her, alter ego, speak ; and it said to the living statue : "Rise,
Tom Clark ; rise, and be a Man-be yourself. Rise !" And
it rose ; stepped from the pedestal, erected its head-and such
a head-while she, the phantom artist, with careful tread,
and anxiously holding her nether lip between her teeth,
slowly retreated backward from the room, quitting it through
the door by which she had entered a little while before. She

THE ROSICRUOIAN' SSTORY.         93

5
'r
k
i
'a
° r
h
r

was followed majestically by the statue, which moved with a
power and grace, as if charged to the brim by God' (Vol
vanic Batteries.                  -     s auricles, vaves,
Scarcely had the two phantoms left thephantom room,
than the woman on the stool-the real Betsey Clark - fol-
lowed their example with a sudden bound, exclaiming, as
she did so, despite the warning of the Hermit of the Silver
Girdle (for whom at that moment she didn't care ;-not even
a piece of a fig), "My husband ! my husband !" Human na-
ture, especially woman nature, couldn't stand the pressure
any longer. She felt, and acted as she felt-as every woman
has, since the year ONE-and will, until Time and Eternity
both grow gray. "My husband /" there spake the woman.
Well, let us concede her prerogative ..... .. In an in-
stant the Hermit of the Silver Girdle was in a very great
and unprecedented fluster.
"Silly girl ! didn't I tell you not to speak ? Only look !
see how you have gone and done it !-done me !  Oh, dear !
if I warn't a Rosicrucian, I'd get excessively angry, Dorg on
it, if I wouldn't !" (and in his placidity, he pronounced
"dog" with an r. Commend me to a female for upsetting
the best calculation of the wisest Rosicrucian that ever lived.
I speak from experience !) "I told you not to open your lips,
and here you've gone and spoke right out ! What's the con-
sequence," exclaimed the venerable gray-beard. " Why the
spell is broken-the charm fled-nor can either be recalled
before the sun has set and again declined toward the western
sea.. Familiar as I am with the secrets of Gale and the
mysteries of magic crystals, I know that you have done very
wrong; for no one is fit to consult Destiny by their aid who
is not competent to keep silence for an hour, no matter
what the temptation and provocation to, break it may be.
Now hie thee homeward. To-morrow thou mayest return
again, provided thou wilt obey nie, and speak not a syllable
while the phantasmal game of Fate is being played before
thy startled eyes."
The Hermit of the Silver Girdle had spoken truly; for at
the very first movement of her lips, the whole scene of en.
chantment vanished into thin air, leaving only a three-cor-
nered table and a little glossy-looking ball behind.
To depict her chagrin and disappointment at this abrupt
termination of a very strange affair, is a task totally beyond my
capacities. She bounced out of the grotto in a miff, tossing


94              THETHE RosICRUcIAN s                                                             RY.              95
94E THOSICR0SICR (IATORY.(                                                                    95
her pretty had in a manner precisely adapted to play the ons          t   uiu
her pre h  i h tes    lsusceptiblehea     d      chanism; its curious movements, mystical arrangements of
whoedecit shpe              1y their heads; but she had   parts, and adaptation of means to ends; its auricles, valves
no idea of abandoning the adventure at that point-not she;   and veis ; its ventricles and its pump-tapping the wells of
but da ofully r    d   tohe  nit out next day even if she bit  life, and forcing its waters through a million yards of hose,
but was fully resolved to eeaor to keep stl. Warriors,     plentifully irrigating the loftiest gardens of man's body, and
her tongue itoo  he an    el orea men can compr hend      hence of his imperishable soul. The inspection was almost
statesmen,,philosophers and webrea se they know that of all  too much for the girl, who had liked to have screamed out
the sublhmity of her resolution,hbecau1 s he  re tatsostall her wonderment and delight ; bthaigmaeu hrmnd
earthly tasks, the one assigned h   the  eatest, ot    to keep still this time, she, by dint of much handkerchief and
heroic, and one compared to which the twelve labors of the  tongcue-ingsucedtohetralrdt
Greek god were mere childish pastime. At all events, to     to    -bitg, succeeded, to the eternal credit of herself or
keep perfectly silent she would certainly  Try, said a voice   That which you see," said the Hermit who ofcourse had
an audible voice, right beside her ear! She started, attrib ut:  htwihYU5C-         ad h   emt     h   fcus     a
in aude i   sce igto mere fiey-; but again the magic     the privilege of talking as he pleased, "is a man's heart, in
ing the circumstance tons , en, nsftly whispered in        uplay.It is, asyou perceive, filled with blood, whose office
word was, by unseen lips, hen od wyt echoing through    is to give life to the body and vigor to the mind. But the
etheart has other chambers than those containing the venous
herver  sol.Whence came the voice?      h  wsi
her very soul. th cepok un thinly not herself, nor te   and arterial fluids; for all its walls and valves contain innu-
what was it  hat    whre was it that she had heard that  merable small cells; and these cells secrete and contain cer-
Hermit. When was it, where was 1 , here had it made so    an aeriforin fluids far more potential than blood, and which
voice and word before  h   en,   Was it in a ream? Who     observe the ends of a higher and far more wonderful econ-
deep an.impression on hermmnd     aitomy. -There are two kinds of blood ; so also are there two
can tell ; she could not. My hearers,can you..-tuid to    inds of the subtle fluid I have mentioned : one sort is born
Nexttmornfg,h b    r t  o hea Siver .irlef who dIwelt   th us, and we come into the world with exactly one half of
the grotto of the Hernitad borers of a forest wild..--     these cells full, while the other half are entirely empty ; and
within a grotto, on t e sd  y redy converse nd admonition  they must remain until they are filled from the heart of
An hour or two elapsed mn friendlyonrstwaindncemoeseti  ;rme one else. Males are born with the cells of the left side
and now again behold the dissimilar twainl once more seated  "' Otitflaes Mlsahr with thosell of the  leftnfileside
silntl eor gi ehd theite table, on which glittered, as before,  empity, females with those of the right unfilled, while the
silently before the little table, ondi-orking crystal globe  other cells of each are always full. These fluids are real
the rare, pearl-disked, magic, won colors came and went.  actual, perceptible, but imponderable. Their name is Love;
Again, as before, the glorious layoeolothecartiseanddte ,iandwhen things take their proper and natural course, the
Again it faded, and she saw the a or the artiste, and tht  fluid flows out from the cells of a woman's heart into the
artiste's living statue; but this time Betsey could look right
trouist  bdym s e bt it we mde of' finelpolished glass.  empty ones of a man's; and the full cells of a man's heart
through its body, as if it were made.o She say and compr- fill the empty ones of a woman's, in which case they are said
Tom Clark stood revealed before pir.od-all; and through to love each other." Two men cannot thus love; nor can
headed hun on all sides-soui roman, a lectuess on phi- two females. Many of either sex travel from the cradle to
sh        ther   t   og      no   Woman's .acred al     the grave without either filling, or being filled in turn; for it
delicate work"o- Fizeeo-logical !--and though she knew but  s i ltaw that love cannot flow unless it be tapped by the op-
little of the human organism, beyond a few familiar comouiV-pite pai'ty; and it can only be tapped by KINdNEsS, GEN-
l f heumorgambeyonghofthegloriousmj         TNss, REsPEcT-these three ! The unloved and unloving
places--yet she cmpreh   ed enough       l    us              only half men, half women-and, believe me, my-child
before her to be aware that the red, pulsing lump just beneath' there's a mighty ight of Halfness in  me, -fhoril
aware thataknmighty sightdeoe aslfneehsainthis world of ours!
its throat was technically known and consider as th he: Muclh of it comes of not trying to have it otherwise. Peo-
and she couldn't help admiring its wonderful and mighty m e- pe-married people, especially-devote half their days to


96             THE ROSICRUCIAN's STORY.
growling because they have not got somebody else's wife or
husband, when the fact is that their own partners are quite
good enough-as they would find out with a little trying.
Men expect a woman's love to bubble up all the time. Fools !
why don't they sound its depth, and bring it to the surface?
There are altogether too many divorces-a divorce first, and
the next step is-dangerous. I knew a wife of three divorces ;
I knew a man the husband of two consecutive divorces.
Good intentions ! Bah ! Hell is paved with such. I know
a broken-hearted woman whose husband, after wearing her
out, sneaked off to Indiana and robbed her of her name.
God's Secretary ?-the devil's ! Out upon the wretches !
The woman who has wasted her -youth and bloom upon a
man who then wants a divorce, and who permits him to ob-
tain itis a fool. He promised for life. Make him keep it.
even if you invoke the law's strong arm. If both agree, that
alter's the case. I have a legal acquaintance in New York
who drives a large trade in the divorce line, at twenty-five
dollars a head. I feel called upon to expose the infernal
methods by means of which it is done, and I call upon our
Legislature to see to it that the thing is not suffered to go
on. A. is a lawyer : B. and C. are husband and wife. B.
wants a ".divorce without publicity ;" goes to A. and pays a
fee to secure it, but has no legal quibble by means of which
to obtain it. A. gives him the following counsel: " Go to a
brothel, take up with an inmate thereof ; call her D.; make
three or four male and female acquaintances (E., F., G. and H.),
introduce them to D. as your wife ; leave town a day or two,
but take care that D. is well watched in the interim. Of
course she will avail herself of your absence to ply her voca-
tion. E., F., G. and H. furnish the most incontestible and
damning proof of her supposed guilt. The witnesses may or
may not know your precious scheme. You prosecute the
leman under your wife's name-she, of course, knowing no-
thing about the proceedings-poor thing ! The court takes
the evidence, hands it over to a referee, who passes on it ;
returns it, affirmed, to the court, which forthwith enters a
decree of perpetual divorce. A scoundrel goes unwhipped of
justice, and an honest woman's reputation is forever damned !
Legislators, I tell you that these things are done every
day, I was told it-could not believe it-and assuming to be
desirous of such a decree, received the above counsel, word
for word, from a practitioner at the New York bar. Legis-

THE ROSIcRUcIAN'S STORY.            97
lators, here is a crime worse than murder ! Will you sanc-
tion it longer?  How prevent it?  Summon the witnesses
and performer of this marriage ; or at least prove the iden-
tity of the woman or the man, as the case may be-for women
practice in that court also !
There would be far less of this sort of iniquity, if there
were fewer blatant philosophy-mongers afloat on the tide of
the times, inculcating morbid theories, and directly pander-
ing to the worst vice a man can have-Meanness.
" People insanely look for and expect perfection in ethers-
not only without the slightest claim thereto themselves, but
without the least attempt in that direction-which is a very
suicidal policy to pursue. Such soon come to be vampires,
4 co isuming themselves and destroying others-ravening tigers
at their own fold's side ! Sometimes one person's affection-
which is akin to love--goes out toward and clings round an-
other; but Death ever flaps his wings by the side of such,
when that other fails to give it back.. The unloving loved
one, if such a thing be possible, is a born thief, from the
cradle to the clouds; and, my child, there are a great many
such robbers in the world."
"But, Father, how is one to love, when one don't feel like
it, or has.attractions in another direction ?"
" Where duty and honor point, there should the attraction
lie ! Whosoever shall render themselves loveable and lovely,
can no more help being loved than smoke can help ascending
through the air. Make yourself agreeable to the partner of
your lot in life, and that partner can no more help loving you
than mirrors can help reflecting. Now let us attend to the
figure before us.
"The heart of yonder figure," said the old man-pointing
to the. first figure of the previous day, which had, together
with the second, re-appeared upon the scene during his elo-
quent plea for the perpetuity of wedlock-"is only half full
(this first figure of your future husband, only half full) by
reason of your withholding and refusing all tender wifeli-
liness; you will rob him and yourself of the better meat of
life; your years will be gloomy ones ; you will make him
wretched, and be the same yourself-cheat your -bodies of
health, your souls of happiness and vigor ! Take heed ; cor-
rect the fault. You 'can't 1' There's no such word. TRY !"
Turning now to the second figure of the previous day, he
observed: "See ! Tom Clark's, heart is empty. All its=cells


TnE ROSICRUCIAN' STORY.
are jAlled with a void-hollow as the apples of Persia's arid
wastes. Have mercy, Heaven, on him whose heart throbs
not with the rapturous burthen of a woman's love ! Pity
him whose soul groweth not tender with the lovelight beam-
ing from a baby's eyes ! Ah, what a world of nameless glory
flashes from an infant's eyes ! They are telescopes through
which my soul sees Heaven-through Which I watch the
mazy dance of starry worlds, and behold the joys of sera.
phim. We Rosicrucians love babies-- seed of the ages'- and
their mothers, too-because they are such; for we believe
that after death the maids fare worst--the wives fare better;
but no tongue or pen can express the rapture that awaits
those who have borne sons and daughters to the world and
heaven ! Bachelors ! Bah ! I will pass by such cattle, merely
remarking that their place is not to be found in heaven, or
the other place. They repair in a body to Fiddler's Green-
and ought to stay there, if they do not !"
And Betsey gazed on the forlorn figure of poor TomAwho
was all one-sided, crooked, lean ; his hopes and joys were
flown, because no one loved him, not even his wife ; and who
else should, if not she ?  And so he was wretched, like full
many another whom I have seen as I journeyed down life's
glades. His soul was driven back upon, and forced to eat
itself, day by day, and year after year. "And this great
wrong, you will do," said the hermit; and "This great
wrong, I have already done," thought .the girl-wife--
widow-wife-four in one, with that stragge, anomalous
inconsistency, peculiar to Dream-Lif6.-- "Ihave done badly ;
but this, I will do no more-not an6thersecond longer !"
Bravely, royally, thought and said ! Better, if more glo-
riouly done !-and that's just the difference-saying and
doing. The first is common ; the last is very rare. "Better.
still, if truly said, and still more nobly done ."-was whis-
pered in the woman's ear. in the same low, silvery voice,
she had heard the day before. Who was it that spoke these
melodious words?  Not the hermit in gray. Was it the in-
visible Hesperina, telegraphing Betsey's soul across the vast
expanse of the Continent of Dream? Who shall answer me
these questions ?
Said the silver-girdled hermit, as he smiled a smile of more
than human gladness-more than human meaning-" It is
Well." She looked again toward the magic globe, and lo !
within a moment, its disc had changed. The first two figures

Ile

had disappeared ; the third had come upon the scene-a con-
spicuous actor in such a terrific drama, as neither earth nor
starry eyes ever saw before, may they never see again. The
Gorgon, WAR, had'glutted himself on Europe's bloody fields,
and had flown across the salt sea, alighting on our shores.
The demon landed with a howl, midway between Moultrie
and Sumpter. He had seized the reins of government, pro-
claimed himself sole Lord and King ; strangled Reason in
his dreadful gripe, until she lay bleeding on the gory earth,
and meek-eyed Peace fled tearfully away from his grim
presence, and hid herself upon a distant mountain-top, whence
she could survey the shock of armies on the plains beneath,
and sigh, and long for Liberty, and rule. War and Carnage,
side by side, with gory banners flying, marched from one end
of the nation to the other, until their footsteps rested on the
graves of eight hundred thousand men. God's precious word
was disregarded, and His blessed soil dyed red with human
blood-the rich, fat, blood of the noblest race that ever trod-
His earth-the blood of your brother, and of mine,. O,_my
countrymen !   . . . And now, the loud-lunged trumpets
brayed their fierce-alarums, and summoned Columbia's sons
to deeds, at which our grandsons shall turn pale -deeds of
heroic daring, such, Greece, nor Rome, nor Carthage, never
dreamed of, nor storied page has chronicled: summoned them
to Sumpter's stony ramparts, and Potomac's grassy banks--
summoned them to do, and - die. Eight hundred thousand
Men! And they went-going, as tornadoes go-to strike
for a Nation's life-to strike the foul usurper low, and fling
his carcase to the dogs. They would have struck-struck,
hard and home ; but they were stayed. That was not the
"little game," of Generals, and Statesmen, and of high
contract-ing parties. 0, no ! Victory would never do ! " Let
us fight the foe with gloves on !" said the Minister. They
fought.  The foe wore gloves, also; but the palms were
brass, the fingers iron, and the knuckles were polished steel!
But the Minister had his whim, and unborn generations will
feel its consequences ! Eight hundred thousand graves ! And
the Union legions went, from decreed Fate toward a consum-
mated Destiny, in spite of Ministers, their minions, or the
"little game ;" and Tom Clark went, too.... And loud the
trumpets brayed ; and the heavy drums did sound ; and they
woke strange and fearful energies in the slumbering Nation's
heart. What a magic transmutation I Plowmen transformed

THE ROSICRUCIANS sSTORY.

99


100

THE ROSICRVCIAN's STORY.

to-heroes, such as shall forever put Cincinnatus in the shade ;
day-laborers, carriers of the hod, claiming-and rightfully,
too--high places in the Pantheon of heroic demi-gods. Look
at Fredeieksburgh ! Forget not the Irish Brigade ! Bear
in mind the deeds of an hundred regiments on an hundred
fields--fields, too, that might, and would have finally decided
the carnage and the quarrel, but for the Minister, his gloves,
his "little game," his great whim--and 1o ! its conse-
quences!. . . . Tom Clark, quickened into life by the subtle,
flame.tipped staff in the hands of the phantom-artiste-the
propriettess of the wonderful atelier and Man-factory, now
stepped forth through the door of the room, and forthwith
tse scene expanded to such vast' dimensions, that Betsey
found it impossible to realize the magic mimicry, for the
whole thing was too real, and on too vast a scale. She stood
on the hill of the world, surveying its valleys at leisure.
Tom Clark, apparently heard--deeply heard, his Country's
wail of a^ ny--for unchecked Treason was then griping her
tightly    the throat. That cry called him to a field of
glory, sue as God's green earth never before afforded, nor
is sun ever saw; nor His moon ; nor His myriad, twink-
ling, starry eyes! . . .  Clark's soul was in arms, as his
o'ended ears drank in the hoarse, deep thunders of Trea.
sons cannonry, pouring iron hail upon a prostrate Nation's
head; and his eyes beheld the flashing of the guns, as they
voimited a hell of iron rain upon Sumpter upon Anderson, and
the peerless EIGHTY THREE ! Tom Clak saw the storm,
and his heart indignant swelled, at the insult to the Star-
gemmed Flag of Human Rights, and Liberty--an insult, long
since wiped out in traitor's blood, but for the Minister, and
the gloves, and the y"Little game," and the whim, whose
consequences are-eig ht hundred thousand skeletons!
Like a true man, Clark, inspired by a true woman--the
phantonrwife, and artiste, ran, leapt --flew to arms and
deathlessglory. Ah, God ! to arms, and fadeless glory ! He
bad no time to grieve, or grumble ; or to criticise this gene-
i, or that battle. He looked over the heads of cowards and
tiftys.ish his own camp, at the noble men in arms, and who
blavel. fought, and nobly died, for the Country. He saw,
i  loiously -emulated such men as Lyon, Saxton, Hunter,
ta-and Baker ! Baker ! 0, Oregon ! my tears fall
W 1thine, for him!i  He was mine, yours--ours I Ours, in
hi' life ; in his nobleness ; in his soul-arousing eloquence ;

THE ROSICRUOIA.1'e STOEty.

101

in the valor, and the effulgent glory of his death-the result
of another whim, and 1o ! the consequences!
. . .."And now, seeI Behold the smoke of yonder battle !
Death rides on cannon-balls to day ! And, to-night, th"
will be much mourning in the land ; for strong men are giv-
ing up the ghost. Weep not, 0, widow, for God accepts
such sacrifices ; mourn not, 0, orphans, $e who tempers the
wind to the shorn lamb, will hold thee in His keeping; thy
grateful country will not let thee want for bread ; and, bye-
and-bye, it will be a proud boast of thine, "My father die,
to redeem the land from treason I" . . . . Death rides ,in
cannon-balls, to-day, in the fight that we are seeing. TTum
Clark is a hero. See! he leads the van. God spare him!
What a presence ! What blows he deals for Liberty, and the
Union ! Lo ! the thundering battalions of the brave and
bold, but insane, misguided, and revengeful foe, sweep down
the embattled plain, their war-cry ringing out apive thre
belching roar of artillery ; and with such might-and valor do
they charge, that Freedom's cohorts real and stagger with
the dreadful shock of arms. Another such a charge, and all
is lost. But, see, there comes a man from the ranks-=a comn-
mon soldier: his voice rings clearly out upon the silphur-
laden air: "Follow me !"  The inspiring words and action
kindles new fire in the wavering breasts of hundreds. They
rise; they throw themselves upon the foe--they hush his
battle-cry in death. He is repulsed I " Who did this ?" de-
mands an aid-de-camp. "Private Thomas W.," is the re-
sponse. " Hero ! greet him in my name, as Color-sergeant,"
says the General; and Tom Clark is promoted on the filled.
The first day's fight is over. It is renewed next day, and,
when the tired guns give over with the sun, a group "of
soldiers are'gathered round a man. " Who 'is it Y.Whois
it?" I thought you knew-why, it is the man who saved
the tenth Brigade-and was rewarded on the spot--Captai
Thomas W.! With the sunrise, came the foe. "Pass the
word along the line there--Captain Clark is wanted at the
tent of the General-in-Command!" He goes.
"Captain Clark, do you see yonder battery of the enemy
It must be taken, or we are lost. If I give-yor command of
a regiment whose colonel was killed yesterday, can. pou
take it ?"  "I will try."  *  *  * "General, the "batteryn
the left is ours," says an aid-de-camp an hour -afterwardQ.
"It is taken, and all its men are either dead or .prisonersV'

I


1o            'I'HE RosIcRtUcIAN's STORY.'"
"Indeed ! So soon'? Greet the commander in my name, and
salute him as Colonel Thomas W."  Another day dawns on
the ensanguined field-a field where privates were heroes
and generals poltroons ! Hard fighting is before us. Up:
up the soldiers spring ; and on, on to death or victory they
rush.   Oh, it was a splendid sight-those death-defying
demi-gods, who, had they in previous battles had but a Man
to lead them, would have taken fifty rebel strongholds in as
many hours. But such was not the drift of the "pretty little
game."  More men must die, more ditches must be dug, and
more human bones must fill them, else how can ministers
carry out their whims ; how else can the enemy be fought and
placated at the same time? It isi't Constitutional ! besides
which it hurts a prospect for the Presidency of the re-United
States-which prospect would be forever marred, and the " lit-
tle game" played out, if we fought without gloves, and vio-
lated our Constitutional obligations byekicking the wind out
of the foe, who is trying might and main to strangle the
Nation.
He might hereafter say : "You, sir, fought without gloves
on !" which wouldn't do, you know. " Damn that Colonel
Thomas W. If the fellow keeps on at that rate, we'll surely
whi somebody- badly. Curse the fellow, he don't believe
in the glove business, or in the ' Erring Sister's' theory."
Soliloquized somebody on a certain day : " This'll never do!
Aid, come here; go tell Colonel Clark to take possession of
the'valley down yonder, and hold it at all hazards till night-
fall? 1" "But, General, he has only seven hundred men-the
foe is thirteen thousand strong'1"  " So much the worse for
-" he meant Clark, but said, "the enemy--they will fight
like tigers."  And the aid transmitted the order-shaking
hands with the Colonel as he rode away, muttering, "Poor
fellow ! His goose is cooked, for a certainty ! What a pity
he stands in somebody's light-somebody who is jealous of
even a private's fame. Ah me !" and he rode back to head-
quarters, wondering whose turn next it would be to face the
forlorn hope - such a singular number of which this Rebel-
lion has developed.
Ilut there was no flinch in Colonel Thomas W. - no
flinch in his men. They all saw the hazard; but they were
men and soldiers. They knew how to obey orders, when
their superiors did not. But then again, they had no

r

I

THE BOSIcRUcIAN'S STOR~Y.

103

hopes of success in a general election ; they had no "little
game.
"Their's not to reason why,
Their's but to do or die."
And they done it !
On on, like more than Spartan heroes on they; dashed
literally, as absolutely as anything earthly can be, "into
the jaws of death-into the mouth of hell." I have a
minnie bullet on my table that plowed a furrow through
a brother's heart of mine in that same dreadful valley !
Away they went-that gallant band, that gallant man ; and
many a bullet went crashing through skulls and bones as
they went ; and many a soul sped .its way to God ere the
cohort reached the knoll in the valley. Once there, they
were no longer men -they were as sublime exemplar gods.
But a man fell-fell before the resistless force of an hundred
horses charging with all of Treason's vehement strength,
and the gallant man went down, and the thunder of iron
hoofs exploded in his ear, and then the cloud passed on... .
And Thomas Clark went down--down, as Truth, and Justice
and I went down ; but he rose again--so ever does Truth and
Justice; and as for me, Te renais de mes cendres and
Resurgam--let those beware by whom I fell. . . . Down to
the gory soil he went ; but even while the woman sat there
in the grotto, gazing till her eyeballs fairly ached with
intensity---sat gazing with suppressed breath, so still was
she--sat gazing, her blood on fire, her pulse beating three
hundred to the minute, beating with a deep, fierce, tumultu-
ous fire ;-sat gazing stilly, while her heart bounded and
thumped within its bony citadel as if impatient of its duress,
and longing to burst its tabernacle, and let the imprisoned
soul go free ; -sat gazing, while her eyes, large gray eyes,
all the while gleamed with a light that proved her capable of
giving birth to heroes ;-even while thus she sate, I say sate,
gazing on the wheeling squadrons, the ,charging hosts, and
the great guns, as they gave forth their fiery vomit, charged
with sudden deaths-the man, Tom Clark, sprung to his feet
again, and, as he staunched .his blood with one hand, he
pointed with the other at the foe. "Follow me !" he cried.
"See ! we are reinforced ! On to victory- on !" And his
voice rose above the tempest, and it flew over the spaces, and
it fell upon the-ears of a great man, and the great manuwrung


104            THE ROSICRUCIAN'S TORY.
his hands, and he thought: " ot dead yet! Damn. the
fellow ! He will make us win a\victory-and that'll never
do ! Dear me ! that cursed fool ill spoil my little game !
0, fbr night, or a fresh division of-the enemy ! I must
reinforce him, though, else it'll get in that infernal Tribune-
and that'll spoil my little game ! Ho, there ! Aid- go tell
C general Trueman to reinforce Colonel Thomas W. My little
game ." and he arranged his epaulettes and gave his mous-
tache an additional killing twist. In the meantime, Tom
Clark had charged the enemy with bayonets with the
remnant of his own force, followed by hundreds whom his
example had transformed into something more sublime than
fighting soldiers.
And now occurred one of those conflicts which make or
mar the fortunes of a nation: one of those terrible multi-
personal combats which mark a century's history, and strike
the ages dumb with awe ; one of those terrific scenes in the
world's great drama, that mark historic epochs, and enshrine
men's names in fiery letters upon the scrolls of Fame.
The charge and the action were short, swift, desperate ;
but at its close the
Flag of the Planet gems,
With saphire-circled diadems,
floated proudly over the scene of Treason's battle lost--a
Nation's battle won !
Day closes again; and the wounded hero in an ambulance
was borne fainting--almost dying from the field. "Colonel
Clark, can I do anything for you ?" said one of the fighting
generals to the stricken man-a bullet had gone through
him. "1You are a noble fellow, and I s4k for myself
Your comrades in arms, and for our country. Cotn I-can
they, can we, can she--do anything for you, in this sad hour
of your destiny ? If so, I beg you to speak."  " Ala-s! no,
my friend," replied he, reviving, only to swoon again. A
little cold water on his temples partially dissipated the coma,
but not all the fog from his perceptions; for his general's
words, "Can e," considerably obfuscated his intellect, and
he thought: "He means Betsey-that's the only she I know
of." And then he strengthened up for a last dying effort ;
strove to collect his thoughts, partly succeeded, and said:
"Nothing more, dear general. Yes. No. I'm-dy-ing

THE RosICUcisC 4N'S O4R.         105
-going-home. Tell Betsey-dear Betsey-I did not-find
her out till-it was-too-late. Tell her that I loved-hier
from my-soul--at last. Tell her-that--"
"She can't stand the pressure any longer-Globe or
no globe, hermit or no hermit-not another minute,. you
Bet ! It's a pretty how de do, me a settin here and poor
Tom laying there killed a'most to death !" shrieked the fair
girl in the grotto of the hermit of the silver girdle, waked up
beyond endurance by the skillful magic of the wierd recluse.
And repeating the Californian "You Bet /" with vehement
emphasis on the last word, she sprung to her feet, in spite of
the warnings of the Himwho dealt in magic crystal globes in
the precincts of a forest wild-upsetting table, tripod, stool
and hermit, in her eagerness to reach Tom's side and
give him wifely ministry..
What luck she might have had in bridging Phantom
River, I know not, having omitted to remain long enough for
inquiry, not having had time to thus devote; but this I do
know, namely, that she nearly kicked the veritable Mr.
Thomas W. Clark completely out of bed-the bed at whose
foot was a window, whose upper sash was down-the identi-
cal window through which came all the "funny things " of
this most veracious history-which, of course, is all: true.
Betsey woke from excitement, Tom from being kicked, and
both had finished their double dreams.
" What'n thunder's up now, Bet-no, Lizzie, I mean ?"
said he, checking the less respectful utterance, and modulat-
ing his voice to what he doubtless intended to be a "velvet-
dulcet cadence," but which wouldn't pass for that in Italian
opera.  "Not nothing, Tommy dear."     " Not nothing,
Lizzie 7"  "Not nothing."  "That ain't grammar sweet."
" I was paragorically speaking, my turk'le dove ! only I've
been having two very funny dreams."    "YOU !    Two
dreams ?  That is queer !' "You Bet !' "What about,
Lizzie ?" " Oh, all about how we didn't love each other as
we ought to, husband." "And, dorg on my buttons, wife, a
I havn't had two just such dreams myself-all about if
precipice and a pile--0, wasn't it a pile,,though ?' "You
Bet !  "And my dreams were all about how I ought to
love you- and didn t -and then again I did." " That's a
dear 1" " You Bet !" " Let's love each other this time
out, will you ?"  "I will, will you ? ' " You Bet I"  "Let's
profit by our dreams ; I mean to, wont you ?"  "I'll try I"

rA

1
..
,
'


106            TIE ROSICRUoIAN s'STORY.
"1'W try !" "We'll both try !" "You BET !" And they
tried.    r:i .""T"
' Will you do the same ?' asked the Rosicrucian, of the
"Angular Character," who had told his own story in disguise.
The latter saw that his secret was out ; yet his heart was
touched, for, as a great tear-drop rolled down his cheek, he
said, with smothered breath. the holy words-"Ill try !"
" Amen !" said the Rosicrucian. " Amen !" said we all; and
then turning to his auditors again, the story-teller said:
" Friends, go thou and do likewise, and so long as you live,
I charge you never to forget the Rosicrucian nor his story ;
nor It--the Shadow ; nor Hesperina -- the Light ; nor Otanethi
-the Genius of tI e Hour ; nor the silver-girdled Hermit, and
his Crystal globe, in a forest wild; nor, above all, the little
window at foot of the bed. whose upper sash was down.'
P. B. R.
I UncA,N. Y., August, 1863.    -


THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.             109
New and Startling Worlks.
I.
THE UNVEILING : Being a critique on Modern Spiritualism.
The Non-Immortal Theory, and a view of the whole subject,
from an independent point of view. By P. B. BAnorI'n,
Price 25 cents. For sale only at the
Cornhill Publishing House, Utica, N. Y.
II,
If ISN'T ALL RIGHT."     By " C. T." (P. B. RAporj.) A
rejoider and critique on the Pseudo-Optimism of the day-es-
pecially that based on Dr. Childs, of Boston, to whose Book it
is an answer. This -is one of the Author's best Pamp~lets.
Price 15 cents. Sold at the office of the Banner of Lght, Bos-
ton, Ma's.
III.
DEALINGS WITH THE D1AD: By P. B. RANDoI. Being a
Psychical Revelation of a S ul's Journey, from the dying hour
onward.
[The work is a great on in the clearness and scope of re-
velations, and as such has  n honored with the highest en-
coniums of solid minds, a d learned, in England, France,
United States and elsewhere.]
Price 75 cents ; postage 8 cents. Address Banner of Light,
Boston, Mass.
IV.
HUMAN LOVE-A Physical Sulstance, in Health and in Dis-
ease.. The Grand $Scr.^ By Dr. F. B e
[A new and startlng theory      I     segt. of the
larger work by the same Author, uti     same title. A


110            THE ROSICRUCIAN's STORY.
Pamphlet that no one capable of loving, or being loved,
should be without a single day.]
Price 25 cents, postage free. Addres'
Cornhill Publishing House, Utica, N, Y.
V.
THE GOLDEN LETTER : For the guidance of those who are
suffering from Sexual Debility, Exhaustion, Barrenness, Sper-
matorbeea. Price 50 cents.
[This work contains complete information for self-cure of
all the above.]
Address      Cornhill Publishing House, Utica, N, Y.
THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY. (The Present Work.) By P.
B. RANDoLPH. [Prbnouned by the Press, almost universally,
to be "one of the strangest stories ever penned.". ... "Abound-
ing in deep .thought, exquisite and quaint humor, melting
pathos, sturdy blows on the head of Wrong."... "A right
loyal defense of Marriage, Women, and the Family." ... . " An
extraordinary work, whichever way one looks at it, and such
as no one but this talented offshoot of Virginia's great Ran-
dolph-House could produce."...." It is eminently worthy of
his genius, and an honor to the literature of the 'ay." " No
man who should read this book, his ' Dealing with the Dead;'
his scorching Critique of Child's-'Whatever is, is Right ;' or
his still greater work on the Antiquity of the Human Species,
would for a moment believe them all the product of a single
braih-so diversified, so different in style, thought and concep-
tion, and yet all so excellent in their way are each."]
Paper covers, 25 cents. Published at the
Cornhill Publishing House, Utica, N. Y.
SINCL AIR TOUSEY, Wholesale Agent,
121 Nassau street, N. Y.
VII.
THE CELEBRATED "RODREY" DREAM-LOOK-he trans
lated, condensed, and adapted to Modern Usage.
[This reprint of the largest and most perfect book of the
kind in the world, in any language, has been enlarged till it
now contains the enormous number of 3000 SOLUTIONS
OF 3000 DREAMS! It is utterly impossible to have any

THE ROSICRUCIAN s STORY.              111
sort of dream, the interpretations and meaning of which is
not contained in this very curious book.]
Price 25 cents. N. B.-There are no copies of this work
to be had anywhere else but at the
Cornhill Publishing House, Utica, N. Y., and
SINCLAIR TOUSEY, Wholesale Agent,
121 Nassau street, N. Y.
yin.
Extraordinary and Exciting Work, Dedicated (by Permission) to
PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
PRE-ADAMITE MAN : Demonstrating Human Existence 100,000
years ago, and that Adam  was not the First Man. Second
Edition. Now ready.
When the gude Laird was making Adam, even then the clan Grant was as
thick and numerous as the heather on yon bills --Bans GaAr.
I need not ask they if that hand, when armed,
Has any Roman soldier mauled or knuckled ;
For thou wert dead, and buried, and embalmed,
Ere Romulus or Remus had been suckled.
Antiuqity appears to have begun
Long after thy primeval race was run.
ADDRESS TO A MUMMY-HORACE SMrTE.
Cloth $1.25, 8vo., 400 pages, usual Discount to the Trade.
SINCLAIR TOUSEY,
121 Nassau street, New York.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
"A remarkable book."--Times. " We hail this shot from the
Fort of Truth!..... .Shows that men built cities 35,000 years ago !
.... Extra valuable volume !"-lerald of Progress. " Great grasp
of thought !.... Proves Adam was not the first man, nor anything
ike it !....Eugrossingly interesting....Soul-stirring and grand
)eyond description !"-Banner of Light. "The Author exhibits a
profound reverence for the truths of Scripture, but a still pro-
onnder one for Truth herself. Dissent we may to some things,
let on the whole, we commend the work to the favorable atten-
tion particularly of the learned world-for the Author is himself
a man of vast and varied learning."--Advertiser. " The author
has studied his subject most thoroughly ; and arives at concln-
sions that are absolutely startling."--London Herald. " Possesses
a fascination dimcult to withstand."


 
             
         
       
   
