
    ----CITATION----
        Pritchard, Paul.. The Refugees, or, The Union Boys of '61 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7514
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The refugees, or, The Union boys of '61 
            
               Yal unver~tyLIDfay7
'TE REFUGEES'
TH   N ORB YSOF611

A TALE OF THE REBELLION.

A
A'

PAUL PRITCHARD.
tt,

NEW YORK:
T. W., STRONG, PUBLISHER, No. 98 NAssau SaRU.

I l. '
PI

F                   M  "
'73  .,, F-_ ; _  ".  e ''  " }  ,.  "   fi

K

t       L I
iiiaajr~

'r
E
=r
r
a
i
z
f
i
3


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1802,
BY THOS. W. STRONG,
In the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.

Ix~

'             .J

THE REFUGEES;

THE

UNION BOYS OF '61.

t
t

INTRODUCTORY.
TUE ELMS.
WITHIN about a mile of the Greenbriar river, which
flows near the town of Lewisburg, Virginia, in a
beautiTul valley, between two spurs of the Alleghany
Mountains, there stood an old mansion house, erected
many years ago, by one Piercy Morley, a descendant of
one of the best families in the West of England. - Piercy
Morley was a younger son, who, disregarding the wishes
of his family, who had selected the church as a profession
in which, through political influence, his prospects could
be better advanced than in any other way, threw, up the
gown and emigrated to the then colony of Virginia, about
the year 1762, and settled in the neighborhood we =have
described.  He was prosperous, soon attaining a high
social position, and was elected a member of the House
of Burgesses. Heedless of family ties, and sympathizing-
Warmly with the spirit of Independence which -led' to the

'i
i

0

_                              x
pay.
a  5-*      Y.             r  t  a
Egli"
'; f.   lF   tt  s  t 1 "           1


6              THE REFUGEES; OR,

TIhE UNION BOYS OF '61.       '7

War of the Revolution, on the breaking out of hostilities;
he. enthusiastically espoused the cause of the "Rebels,"
and raising a regiment, composed of the very flower of
his adopted state, he fought at its head, until the Inde-
pendence of the Colonies was achieved, and then, return-
ing to his plantation, lived for many years to enjoy the
fruits of that Liberty, which he had contributed so much
to gain. At his death his large estate, known as "The
Elms," passed into the hands of his only son, William
Morley, who inherited all the patriotism of his father,
and, served his country as well in her councils, as his an-
cestor had in the field. He had married ,at an early age,
the fruit of his union being.a son and a daughter. The
son died sighting under his country's flag, upon the
bloody field of Resaca de la Palma, and as the mother
had, died some years previous, William Morley was left
alone with his remaining child, Rose Morley, who, at the
time we are writing of, was a beautiful girl about eighteen
years of age.
In the neighborhood of "The Elms," there resided at
the same time, another family by the name of loughton.
They were wealthy, but there were dark whispers afloat
as to the manner in which old Ralph Houghton had ae-
quired his wealth. He came from Louisiana, and had
been a seafaring man up to the time of settling upon the
estate he had purchased in South-Western Virginia, and
had been, according to the declaration of some, engaged
at one period of his life, in the slave trade, and the more
censorious of the country gossips, did not hesitate to hint
that he had taken part in even more lawless and reckless
enterprises ; one old woman affirming, - that in going
through the house one day, she had seen in a sort, of hum-

ber room incautiously left open, various weapons of a
murderous character, and a black flag, bearing upon its
folds the terrible death's head and cross bones. Be this
as it may, his society was generally avoided by the better
families of the neighborhood, and the visitors at his home
were few and far between. His son, Miles Houghton,
was a reckless, daring man, who took an active interest
in the field sports of the country,! and was somewhat
prominent in local political circles. He was not over
nice in the selection of his associates, and as he spent his
money freely, he collected around him a, large number of
such as were always ready for a spree or at frolic, and
enjoyed all the influence that a leading position among
such a class, gave him. He had been an aspirant for the
hand of Rose Morley, but on the first intimation of his
design,l he was met by an indignant refusal, and 'received
a hint from William Morley, that any repetition of his
advances would be construed as an affront. This re-
jection, however, did not altogether check his passion
for the young girl; and without making any particu-
lar manifestation of his feelings, so far as the verbal ex-
pression of them went, hopersistently crossed her path
upon all possible occasions, and in various ways insisted
upon making her conscious of his preference.
Among the most welcome visitors at "The Elms," was
Mark Lee, a young man who had originally came from
the State of Massachusetts, and who had established him-
self as a lawyer in the neighboring town of Lewisburgh,
where he stood high in the estimation of all who knew
him. He had been elected to the lower house of the
State Legislature, and was noted for his staunch patriot'
ism, and unwavering fidelity to his friends and any cause

'cv a


THE REFUGEES; OR,-

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.          9

ie espoused.  He. had long since found- favor in the
eyes of the fair Rose, and the day of their marriage had
been fixed at no distant period, shortly before the events
we are about to relate, occurred. This preference had
awakened all the worst passions of Miles lioughton,
and he had often been heard to declare, in his more reek-
less moments, that he would be revenged upon the Ismooth
faced Yankee, as he called Mark Lee, and he left no'
means untried to injure him in his profession, and his po-
litical and social position ; without effect, however, as the
Mfe of the young lawyer gave the lie to every slander
which his traducer put into circulation.
Mark Lee and Miles Houghton, both of them, took an
active part in the political canvass which resulted in the
election, of the present incumbent of the Presidential.
chair. Mark espousing the cause of the Union ticket,
represented by the names of Bell and Everett, while
Houghton, with less ability but more unscrupulous en-
thusiasm, was an active worker in the ranks of the ultra
Southern party. As is well known, tlie State of Virginia
gave the majority of her vote for the Un'ion candidates,
and the rancor which existed in the heart of Miles Lough-
ton, was not diminished by the evidence of the superior
influence of his rival, as displayed in the result in their
own district, where the majority for the Union ticket had
been overwhelming. Thus matters stood, when the first
gun in Charleston harbor sent its fearful reverberation
all over the country, and roused up the dead demon,
War, which set brother in arms against brother, father'
against son, friend against friend; which developed the
deep laid treasonous plots of years, and called up the
~men of the North to .do battle for the flag ยฃ01' which their

sires had shed their blood, and to sustain the government
under which the nation had grown to bethe marvel of
the world. In the wild excitement which followed, none
were allowed to stand neutral, and among those who
were loudest in their defence of the South, and most de-
riunciatory of the North, was Miles Ioughton. Mark
Lee, on the contrary, took high conservative ground, and
used all his efforts to quell the increasing spirit of insub-
ordination which every day became more demonstrative
in western Virginia. His enemy of course took advan-
tage of this, and used every means in his power to excite
the people against him. For a time his efforts were vain,
but at last, Mark Lee began -to be shunned, then openly
denounced, and so violent (lid the manifestations against
him grow to be, that, at last,. he was obliged to flee for
his, life, and took refuge under the friendly roof of old
Wiliam Morley, who also took sides against the rebel
cause. Miles Hloughton, meanwhile, was not idle; by all
the means in his power, he added fuel to the flames of
treason, and raised a body of nien in defence of the rebel
flag, which everywhere disgraced the place of the glo-
rious old banner. Knowing the birthplace of Mark Lee,
he denounced him as a Northern spy, and managed by
the sheerest mendacity, forged papers, letters, &amp;c., td con-
vince the people that he was a secret agent of the ultra
Abolitionists of the North, and one of the friends of the
mad fanatic, John'Brown, whose insane raid had created
so much excitement and bitterness but a short time before.
Under the effect of these misrepresentations, the excited
populace would have torn Mark Lee, limb from limb,
could he have been found, but he had suddenly disappear-
eod, and all search for him being vain, it was generally be-


1 ;ITE UNION BOYS OF '61.      zIl

lieved that he had returned to his native State, and joined
the Federal army.
Miles, however, more than suspected that he still lurked
in the neighborhood, and his jealousy prompted the suspi-
cion that he was secreted at "The Elms."  These suspi-
cions were confirmed by several minor circumstances
which came to his knowledge, and determining to know
the truth, he succeeded in obtaining a warrant for his ar-
rest, on the charge of being a spy, and a traitor to the
Confederate government, to which Virginia had given in
her adherence, ald at the time our story opens had de-
vised means, for putting his revengeful plans into immrne-
diateexecution. With these few explanatory words, we
proceed with our narrative, which, with the exception of
the names of the principal personages who figure therein,
is strictly true.

CHAPTER I.
THE sun was just setting behind the western ridge of
the Alleghanies, and the whole surrounding landscape
was bathed in golden light, as a young girl emerged cau-
tiously from a bridle path, which, traversing the woods
which bound the eastern side of the Greenbriar river,
emerges into the road which leads to Lewisburg in West-
ern Virginia. She pursued her way with cautious steps,
pausing to listen every now and then, with beating heart,
looking anxiously upon this side and the other, and occa-
sionally stopping to gaze behind her, as if she feared pur-
suit. Suddenly a sharp turn in the road brought her to
the edge of a high blufl, from which she could overlook
the surrounding country, which lay spread out like a map
at her feet. Through the lovely valley, which lay below,
the' river meandered on, in its zigzag course, looking, as
it reflected the rays of the setting sun, like a belt of bur-
nished gold, while far off to the right, the high peaks of
the Blue Ridge might be seen towering to the. sky. The
cattle grazed peacefully in the rick green pastures; the
stacks of corn, which rose here and there, betokened
plenty, and the whole scene was calm and peaceful. As
the maiden thus stood, her ears were suddenly startled by
the sound of a bugle, and the hoarse shouts of men.
Quickly turning to the left, and half screening her form

10              ME REFUGEES ; OJ9
0


TE REFUGEE ; OR,

behind the giant trunk of a huge 'sycamore, which spread
its branches high above her head, she saw a troop of
horsemen emerge from a dense wood below, and take
their way along the river bank, in the direction of Lewis-
burgh. The cortege numbered in all about two hundred
men. They were not uniformned. Each wore such gar-
nents as suited him, but all carried swords, and carbines
Lung from their shoulders. At their head rode an officer
im.the uniform of the United States, bitt the flag which
was borne immediately behind him, showed that he was a
traitor to the government whose glorious insignia he
wore, and thpt he belonged to those, who, with fratricidal
hand, had risen in arms against it. As the young girl
gazed upon this sight,:ber eye dilated and her lovely lip
curled in scorn and indignation.
"So so," she muttered between her teeth, "you have
consummated your hellish wish at last, Miles Houghton.
Traitor and renegade that you are! Ha !" she exclaim-
ed, as the troop turned into a lane which crossed the
main road. "Ha! they are going towards 'The Elms,'
and Mark Lee.   There is no time to be lost.  I can
reach the hut before them, and may save him yet. They
know not of the hiding place."
Giving one last look at the receding band, she darted
quickly away, and taking to the woods, sped swiftly
along, with the evident intention of getting in advance of
the party of insurgents whom she had seen in the valley
below. Heedless of all obstacles, she pursued her course
through the dense woods for at least a mile, when she
was suddenly startled by the unexpected appearance of a
negro, who suddenly emerged from a thicket, and stood,.
with hands upraised and mouth wide open, directly in

12

r

her path. He was as dark as Erebus, small of stature,
and though not passed fifty years of age, looked at
least twenty years older. His limbs were crooked. he
had but one eye, and so warped and distorted were his
hands, that they looked more like the talons of some
huge bird than a portion of a human being.
"IHi, hi !" he exclaimed. "Gracious Solomon, what's
de matter, missed, dat you're a lopin along trough de
woods, like a deer on de full jump? Why, you looks as
sheered as a rabbit wid de dogs after it. What's de
matter ?"
" Ah, Cupid,'is it you ?" asked the young girl, gasping
for breath, "You frightened me dreadfully. But I have
no time to waste in words ; danger is at hand. From
the bluff above I observed a party of arined rebels, with
Miles Iloughton at their head. They are moving in the
direction of 'The Elms,' and I fear me with no good pur.
pose.' Miles knows that Mr. Lee has been our guest
there for a week past, and in his hate and jealousy he will
be capable of any act of cowardly violence. The mo-
ment I saw the traitorous wretches I hastened to warn
him, and-"
"Dat's right, Missee, data's right !" interrupted the ne-
gro, " Mass'r Lee mustn't be caught dar like a woodchuck
in a hole. I'll go right along and fix it all right. Ise
only a cripple, but I'd run dese old legs off for Mass'r
Lee, or any other man wot don't go back on de old flag.
As for dat trashy Miles Houghton, I just wish dis nigger
had de fixin' ob him, dat's all! Come along, Missee,
come along. I'll go ahead to de Elms. You go right
straight along to de old cabin by de creek, and I'll have
Mass'r Lee dar afore you, suih1"

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

13

4


THE REFUGEES ; OR,

Without waiting for her reply, the old negro darted
off with an alacrity which his crippled form made sure
prising, and in a moment was out of sight.
The girl, evidently experiencing a sensation of relief,
then followed with hasty steps, and in a short time reach-
ed a solitary log-cabin, which stood in front of a high
rock, by the side of a wide brook, which brawled on its
way to the neighboring river.
Hastily opening the door, she entered the humble lodge-
nient and gazed anxiously around her.
"Not here," she exclaimed, as she finished, her hasty
survey. ",ray Heaven the warning arrive not too late.
But.he may be in the inner room." Going to a door to
the right, she pushed it open and entered another apart-
ment, less spacious than the first, and fitted up as a sleep-
ing chamber.
"No, he is not here."
As she spoke she turned to leave the, room, when a
noise, proceeding apparently from the Iloor of the cham-
ber, attracted her attention. Instantly stooping, she look-
ed cautiously around, paused a moment as if to make sure
that no one was approaching, and then, taking a key from
her bosom. she pressed it against what appeared to be a
knot in the rough floor. As she did so, the knot sank,
leaving a small aperture in the rough plank, at the side of
which appeared a key-hole, into which she quietly insert-
ed the key, and turning a bolt, she half rose, and placing
her hand 4 the space left by the sinking knot, raised, a
trap-door which concealed the entrance to a subterranean
passage, then bending her heady she listened. For a time
she heard no sound save the beating of her heart and her
own loud breathing, but, presently, the noise of' distant

14


THE UNION BOYS OF' 61.            17
the lovely girl in his arms, and pressing his lips upon her
fair brow, "How shall I thank vou for your kindness and
your care? my own dear Rose-2"
Hush !" she said, interrupting him, " we have no time
to waste in words. You must go, and quickly. Miles
Houghton is even now in hot pursuit of you. Should he
find you, I cannot foretell the consequences. You know
his hate, his desperate character, his lack of principle, his
vow of vengeance !
".The miscreant !" exclaimed the young man. "The
vile traitor, and the malignant coward!  Because you
would not smile upon him; because you preferred myV
honest love to his wild, reckless passion, he seeks to take
advantage of the maddening excitement which these vile,
traitorous wretches have produced by their specious lies
and misrepresentations, to crush me from his ith. iHe
calls me traitor ! He, forsooth, who turns his back upon
the flag my father died to make triumplhant, and under
which we, as a nation, have grown great, prosperous, and
happy! He has trampled that sacred banner under foot,
and raised in its place the foul emblem of disloyalty.
And because I will not so disgrace the patriotic blood
which flows within these veins, I am denounced, a price is
set upon me, I am hounded from place to place, obliged
to avoid the open day, to hide in secret nooks and cor-
ners, to fly my country, which I love, and thee whom I
adore! Oh that Amerjcans should be obliged to blush
for their own countrymen !"
"Dat's all very nice, Mass'r Lee," here interrupted
Cupid, who, meanwhile, had kindled a fire on the hearth,   i
and lit a pine knot, which threwv a lurid glare around the
little room. " Dat ar's all very well, but if you stay har,


18              THE REFUGEES ; OR,
dey'll trap you suah! It don't make a dif o' bitrance
whether he's right or wrong; .he's got hold ob de heavy
end ob de stick, and you can't do nuffin but make for de
camp ob General MeLennan, and you'd better be mighty
quick about it too. Par aint no time to be lost. De Se-
ceshers is thicker than mush around heali, and if any one
on 'etn gets hold o' you, you're a goner, suah !"
"But," answered Mark Lee, " where can I go ? How
shall I escape?  My existence in the neighborhood is
well known, and my appearance familiar to every man,
woman, and child for miles around. I am single-handed,
without a friend, unarmed! There are, none safe your
honored father, dear Rose, who would shelter or protect
me, for the unfortunate have no friends !"
" Alas.! I feel the truth of all you say, dear Mark," re-
sponded the lovely girl, as tears of love and sympathy
streamed rapidly down her cheeks, " but here, the danger
is increased by every moment's stay. Houghton and his,
band of marauders may return at any minute, and should
they discover you, you are lost!"
"Losti lost !" exclaimed Mark, with asperity., "Hunt-
ed, and waylaid on all sides-and for what? Oh, just
Heaven, thou hast been pleased to bless, this, my native
land, with all that can make it lovely, happy, and pros.
porous. Thou hast made it teem with plenty. Thou hast
given it broad rivers, wide lakes, valleys, and mountains
teeming with the bounties of thy hand. Thou hast made
it a dwelling place fit for angels, and yet, those to whom
thou hast given it, are striving to lay it waste, to make a -
wilderness once more of that, which the hands of patient
industry have made a paradise! It cannot be that flea.
yen will look calmly on and see this wickedness succeed I

TIHE UNION 4 BOYS OF '61.

19

Oh were I free, once more under the folds of that dear
flag, whose every star sheds light and hope upon a free-
man's heart !"
"Hope, hope, dear Mark !" sobbed the girl, as she lean-
ed upon his breast.
" Hope !" he repeated, bitterly. " Ah, Rose, there is no
hope. No hope for me or for my country! And thee,
Rose, thee whom I love so tenderly, thee whom I thought
to call my bride, within a few short days. Ah, how can
I separate myself from thee? How leave thee ?"
"But," replied Rose, "you know, dear Mark, that your
presence here, may destroy me as well. Were it once
suspected that I harbored a Federalist, all their hatred
would fall on me, and we know of what such hate is ca-
pable."
Here a loud rap was heard upon the door. All started
in aifright, and stood as if spell-bound at the alarm.
Cupid was the first to move. Without saying a word,
he made signs for all to keep silent; then seizing Mark
Lee by the arm, he pointed to the trap-door. Once more
taking the weeping Rose to his arms, Mark obeyed the
sign , and in a moment disappeared. The rapping still
continued, while Cupid reclosed the opening and led Rose
to the door of the inner chamber, when he pushed her
gently in, and proceeded deliberately to unbar the door,
yawning and gaping meanwhile, as if just awakened from
a deep sleep.
" Helld! Hello ! Who's dar ?" he asked, peering out
into the darkness. "What de debbil you come liar, dis
time o' night for, 'sturbin de old niggah out o' his nap?
Who's dar, I say ?"
He had not long to wait, for even as he spoke, a man
pushed him aside and strode into the cabin.


20             ThE REFUGEES ; OR,

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

CHAPTER II.
THE man who entered the little apartment, was not a
fearful object to behold. He was-rather below the me-
dium size, and was dressed in a suit of linsey-woolsey
much too large foi' him, and which gave him the appear-
ance of having shrunk in his clothes. He wore a grey
felt hat, with a very wide and limp brim, which threw
into deep shadow a strongly marked yet not unpleasing
face. He had a firm, compressed mouth, bespeaking
much determination, and wore a pair of green spectacles,
which completely shut out his eyes, and added very much
to the oddity of his appearance. He carried a walking-
stick under one arm, and under the other a book of pecu-
liar shape.
As he entered, Cupid looked at him in great astonish-
ment, which increased to such an extent when the stran-
ger deliberately turned his back to the fire, and com-
menced to hum Old Hundred, that the bewildered son of
Ham quite forgot to shut the door, or say a single word,
but stood, like a misshapen mummy, with eyes and mouth
agape, gazing at what he evidently took for a newly in.
vented style of apparition.
Why in thunder. don't'you shut the door?" asked the
stranger, without changing his position, and eyeing the
old negro with some severity, through his green glasses.

"Reckon you was brought up in a saw-mill, wasn't you?
Shut the door, I tell you, you blamed, grinning ape ! I'm
cold !"
Cupid obeyed, mechanically, still all abroad.
"Now put up the bar, and if you've got anything in the
shanty that a white man can drink, trot it out! I m dry!
A little hog and hominy wouldn't go bad neither{ if you
aint out o' rations."
Gradually Cupid began to realize that the object he
was gazing at was not a ghost, and his face subsided into
something akin to his natural expression, as he spluttered
out:
"Hi! hi! mass'r, God fo'gib me, but I tuck you for a
ghost! Who de debbil be ye, anyhow, and what do you
want ?"
"Who be I? I'm Handel Hayden Beethoven Brown,
Professor of Psalmody, and teacher of Botany, Geology,
and Mathematics. That's who I am. What do I want?
Shelter, warmth, some whisky, and a right smart chance
to eat. The first I've got unless you put me out, a thing
you aint shaped to do, and the other you are going to trot
out, if you've got 'em; ef not, I reckon I can do without
'em, as I have before."
So saying, the stranger backed nearer to the fire, and
opening the book which he had carried under his arm, he
commenced to hum one of those old-fashioned hymn tunes,
go popular with the negroes.
Cupid did not seem at all satisfied either with the ex-
planation or the demand upon his hospitality, but stood
eyeing the suspicious stranger askance through his soli-
tary orb. As he did so, the Professor seemed to become
absorbed in the tune he was humming, and his voice grew

d

21

lo


THE REFUGEES; OR,
louder and louder, until, at last, it burst forth in a strong,
ear-splitting strain of nasal melody.
In direct proportion to the loudness of the strain, Cu-
pid's one eye and his mouth distended themselves, his
head, arms, and feet keeping time to the music, until,
Ihially, he could resist the impulse no longer, and joined
i the melodyTwith a loud and not unmusical voice.
The stranger, apparently unheeding him, continued
singing' until all the verses of the hymn had come in for
their full share of vocal effect, when he suddenly stopped.
Then Cupid brokeout:
"Lor' a g'u'ry, mass'r, dat does here nigger's soul good !
Ii, hiI"  You kin hal) anything dis here nigger's
got! you kin ! Lor' bless you, mass' r, you sings just like
a bird! Anything dis nigger's got," and going to a little
cupboard, he produced a stone jug, a tin cup, a piece of
bacon, and some corn bread, which lie placed upon the
table.
lhe stranger did not wait for any further invitation,
but drawing up a three-legged stool, sat down at the ta-
ble, and pouring some of the contents of the jug into the
tin cup. put it to his nose.
Whisky, mass'r," said Cupid. " Good, too. None o'
your nigger rot-gut, mass'r. Drink hearty! 'Twont hurt
you."'
Thus enlightened, the stranger drained the cup at a
draught, and cutting off a piece of the bacon, he placed it
on a piece of the corn bread, and commenced eating vo-
raciously.
" Does you belong in dose parts, mass'r ?" asked Cupid,
with a quick glance of awakened curiosity beaming in his
single eye.

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.
"See here-what's your name?" asked the stranger,
without answering the question.
" Cupid," answered the negro, grinning, " dey calls me
Cupid, cause I's so handsome."
"Well, Cupid," the Professor of psalmody went on,
"don't ask any questions, but answer mine. You live
here, of. course ?
"Lived here all my life, mass'r."
"Know the folks about here pretty well ?"
"I reckon,"
"Know the Morleys?"
" Right smart. I belongs to Mass'r Morley, I does."
" He owns you, does he?  Well, I reckon he's proud o'
that. Then you know his daughter, Rose."
What you want to know dat for ?"
"Didn't I tell you to ask no questions?" -
Well, sposen I do, what den ?"
"And a young man named Mark Lee ?"
"No, rnass'r, I doesn't know nuffin at all about em!
" See here," replied the Professor, rising, "if you lie to
me, I'll choke you! Tell me the truth. You do know
them !"
"Well, spose I does ?"
" Then listen to me. I know your master is a straight
out-and-out Union man. Don't say a word-I know it--
that's enough. So am I."
"See here, mass'r, I don't know what de debbil you be,
or who de debbil you are, 'cept what you told mec. -But I
tell you one thing," said Cupid, beginning to growv warm,
"if you come here to suck anything out o' me, I'm blamed
if you won't git sucked in your own self! Dart! Now I
don't know nothing I"

I1

'I
J1
iI
I  y

r
it
' f
''i
t I
t  Y
1 }fTil
1.-
A


24

THE REFUGEES; OR,

"Shut up, you darned fool, you can't tell me anything I
don't know. I know Squire Morley to be sound. I know
Mark Lee to be sound. I know Rose Morley to be sound.
i'm sound, and so are you, you black imp of Satan. So
listen to me. The hounds are after Mark. They. passed
the place wlre I. was hid, not half an hour ago. They
have gone to the Squire's to look for him. But he aint
there, I know that. I don't know where he is, but I reck-
on you do, and so does Miss Rose, and I'd bet a quarter's
teaching in psalnody agin a green punkin, that they paint
a thousand miles away from this here place."
"See here. mass'r-" Cupid began, but the Professor
interrupted him:
"You know where they be, and so maybe do I. You
see, I'm a geologist; a geologist is a man who knows all
about rocks and things. Well, in hunting around these
rocks last summer, I found a cave. It aint a very big one,-
only a long fissure in the limestone formation about here.
It leads from the Devil'si Pulpit, back of the orchard at
the Elms, as straight as a bee line to this cabin, and that
cave contains at this very moment, Mark Lee. But I'll
have him out. The opening is here!"
With these words he rose quickly, and bursting open
the door of the inner chamber, he was about to enter the
apartment, when he staggered back at the sight of Rose,
who stood upon the threshold, holding an axe in her
hand, which the flush in her cheek and the determination
in her eye, proved she would not hesitate to use-.a
"DBack, on your life!I" she exclaimed, raising the axe
above her head. "Back, I say! I will defend him to
the last 1"
Cupid, meanwhile, had seized the long wooden bar

THE UNION BOYS OF 61.
which had served to barricade the door, and advancing in
the rear of the Professor, called out.:
" Leave him to me, Missee Rose! leave him to me! I'll
fix him!"
Thus threatened both in front and rear, the Professor
stood for a moment bewildered, but collecting his presence
'of mind, he raised his hands, and half turning to Cupid, in
order to guard against any sudden belligerent impulse of
the excited darkey, he said in a tone entirely different
from that which had heretofore characterized his manner:
"For heaven's sake, Rose Morley, listen to me! Mark
Lee is indeed honored in having so bold aid fair a de-
fender. But so far as I and Iy intentions are concerned,
your alarm is groundless and defence unnecessary. Do
you know me now ?" With these words he removed his
hat, and with it the long flaxen hair and spectacles which
.he had previously worn, and throwing the disguise at Cu-
pid, said with a laugh, "And now, Miss Rose, please to
take down that murderous looking axe. I do not think
you will find further occasion for its use 1"
Rose gazed a moment in complete bewilderment, then
dropping the axe, exclaimed in a tone of wonder:
"Carlton Howard1"
" Mass'r Howard, as I'm a nigger I" exclaimed Cupid,
letting the bar fall, and bursting into a laugh. "Yalh I
yahi! ha! And I didn't know him. I'll go right away
and butt out dis stupid nigger's brainsI"
"And now, Miss Rose," said Carlton Howard, extend-
ing his hand, you will not object, perhaps, to my proposed
interview with the young gentleman whom you have so
bravely defended ?"
" Ah, Mr. Howard," said the young girl, extending her

A.

ae


26                THE REFUGEES ; OR,
THE UNION BOYS OF '61.             2
hand, "how shall I ever be forgiven ?  Suppose I had---akw                a    R   -
.t.iB t I am known, and Rose-
Oh heavens, I sicken at the thought! But why this dis-   "I ,,hall remain
guise ?sh!" saidHoard."       I a   f     d    e"I ha ye a little business to transact in this vicinity befor
bei                                                       d ",i tr"Hush  !"  said  Howard.  "9I  heard  of  the  danger N in
which Mark was placed, and I assumed this disguise, in  I leave the neighborhood, and can protect her too. The
order that I might be the better able to aid him, and also  Umon Boys of Western Virginia are not asleep, and ere
to protect myself, for you know, Rose, that should I be  many days have passed, the Stars and Stripes shall again
discovered, my situation would be far woise than his, for  loat over the Old Dominon, and every rebel be driven
I am actually in arms against this cursed rebellion, and if from the soil he pollutes, or forced to recant and once
h tdmore renew his violated allegiance! The Union camp is
from the first tree. But there is no time to be lst. If  not far off. Before a week, Houghton and his maraud-
fM' frtre.Bthrein im oelo  d  ig crew will be in the hands of the brave McClellan and
he is concealed here, let inc see him at once. Miles and
his band may return at any mornent. I have come to out of the way of doing further harm. Then away at
on1ce! Take the, shor test cut towad rnln      n h
save him, and by heaven's help I will. I have lost too
much time already, bat I did not know how far I could  south branch. When you reach Hunterstown, inquire for
one Morris Brice. Give him this letter arid he will do
trust Cupid, here !                                    a
Why, Lor' bress you, mass'r, I'd die ten times an hour  tat you require. Have you money ?"
"None !
for Mass'i' Lee, Missee Rose, or any ob de family, and I'd
be hUngionc and eek H anshotu bia   houreforndehflag o ere you reach your journey's end," urged Howard, forcing
de Union and Hail Columbia."                          a well Iilled buckskin purse into the hands of his friend.
"oar slatriogtism anid savoion the youhonore,"bu sAidnd her'e," lie Continued, handing Mark a brace of -pis-
Hwmusar, apn t. ee sa o               tols, are a couple of staunch friends, who will not desert
Sc           le               arou in your need. Each one has fe mouths to spek for
SiHere!" exclaimed Rose, who had raised the trap-door, o, and if you use them, as I know you can, you will find
and now advanced from the inner room, -leading Mark thatteIaLbtswlla            ak!
tat they can bite as well as bark I'
Lee by the hand.,                                               t   k !       .yo
"Yes, here," said Mark,.seizing Howard's hand and     i   aktha            inspire me with new courage"
shaking it warmly. "Here, to thank you all for your de- said Mark, taking   pistolsandagainsha         his
1end's hanid wairmlv. "If I reach h  a
votion, and bless you for your kindness. From my hid-                                          p
be sure you shall hear a good account of me !"
ing-place I have heard all. What are your plans ?"     a         .j i," r-heUiois."Oc
" You must leave this neighborhood, and that natant- behevegai, ' replied thelUnoisto "thne underdthi
ly,", said Howard.aneeleeed.PQ
Oct it with your life! But time presses. -Even now, me

I
i
J
1
1


28

THE REFUGEES; OR,

thinks, I hear the sound of a distant bugle. Take off
your coat and put on this of mine. 'And here, Cupid,
hand Mr. Lee the hat, wig, and spectacles, which nearly
cost me my life just now; they will help to save his."
Almost as quickly as suggested, the change of apparel
was effected, ,and Mark Lee was transformed so complete-
ly as to defy recognition.
"Gorry, mass'r," exclaimed Cupid, grinning all over
his black face with glee, "your own mother would not
know you!"
"Now away !" urged Howard. "Keep to the-left bank
of the rivei'.  When you reach Tiger creek you will
come'to a cabin, upon the ioof of which you will see a
branch of a pine tree standing. Knock fearlessly at the
door. A man will answer you. He will ask you 'How
the river runs?' You will answer 'North.' He vill re-
spond 'Yorktown.' You may then mention my name.
He will ferry you across the river, and put you on the
road. When you part with him, tell him that the eagle
will leave his nest when the moon is at its full. He will
understand you. Do not forget anything I have told
you-and away !"
"Rose, farewell !" exclaimed Mark, pressing the young
girl to 4is heart, and imprinting a kiss upon her paling
cheek. "Farewell! We shall meet again, if not upon
earth, at least in heaven! Bless you!1"
Rose did not respond, but her heaving bosom told how
keenly she felt the separation from her lover, and how
anxiously her loving heart beat for his safety.
"Good-by, Howard! I hope soon to stand shoulder to
shoulder with you, doing battle in defence of our dear
country! Good-by, Cupid, I know you will be true to
the last."

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

With these words Mark cast a last glance of affection
upon her lie loved, and stepped towards the door. As his
hand touched the latch, the loud blast of a bugle sounded
clear and full.
All started. Had a thunderbolt fallen in their midst,
the consternation depicted in their faces could not have
been greater. Cupid rushed instantly and barred the
door.
Howard was the first to speak.
"Too late! too late!1" he exclaimed, in a low voice.
"They are even now at the door! Quick, the cave !" and
he moved towards the inner apartment, drawing Mark af-
ter him.
"But Rose," exclaimed Mark, "I cannot leave her thus
exposed to-"
"Fear not!" said the brave girl. They will scarcely
dare to harm me. Secure your own safety. Cupid and
I can defend ourselves!"
As she spoke, a sound as if the door had been struck
with the butt end of a gun, fell upon their ears, and a
rough voice exclaimed : "Open quick or we will break
it in!"
" Quick ! quick !" urged Howard, and almost forcing
Mark along, they reached the mouth of the cave.
"Down with you," Howard murmured, in a suppressed
but firm voice, as the noise outside the door increased in
violence. "Down ! It is freedom or nothing !"
Thus urged, Mark jumped into the opening below,
quickly followed by Howard. Cupid sprung instantly to
close the trap, and had barely done so, when the door was
violently burst open, and three men strode into the cabin.

i       I

29-


30

\-

THE REFUGEES: OR,

CHAPTER III.

THE  first who  entered  the  cabin  was  Miles Houghtoi
lie was a tall, broad-shouldered man, with a low, si]
sister expression, to which a deep nar upon his cheek
served to add. his eyes were small. jet black, and pie
cing as an eagle's. He had a low forehead, over wh
his coarse )lack hair fell in disorder. His beard a
moustache were slightly grizzled with straggling gr
hairs, and his whole -appearance indicated a manm of e
ergy, recklessness, and determination, unchecked and nu
guided by any strong moral principle. He was dress
in the uniform of a United States officer, and wore rour
his waist a belt, in which were inserted a pair of lar
navy revolvers, and a dragoon's salbre dangled at h
heels.
Of the two men who followed him, one was named Jeo
Black, a low-sized, rowdyish looking fellow, who acted
the Lieutenant of the rebel Captain, though he wore 1
uniform, and the other was known as Tom Dill, a wil
haram-scarum fellow, fatuous in the neighborhood for h
love of whisky, poker, dog fighting, and his general shil
lessness. He had a rolicking, good natured expressio
generally, save when he attempted to speak, when his fl
underwent the most hideous contortions, and every hia
in his body sesmned to writhe as if he were tormented

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

31

some invisible fiend. He rarely uttered more than half a
word at a time, but would return to the effort to express
himself, again and again, until he succeeded in making
himself understood. He was familiarly spoken of as
Stuttering Tom, a soubriquet which he certainly earned.
As these three worthies entered the cabin, Houghton
called in a rough tone to the mhen outside: " halt where
you are! Keep a good lookout, and if anyone attempts
to escape, shoot him !"
Cupid, the moment the door was broken had seized a
large pine stick which stood by the fire-place, and had
planted himself in an attitude of defiance in front of the
inner room, with the determination of protecting his young
mistress and her lover with his life, if necessary. He
.f .c               ss.y- .
still maintained his position without speaking a word.
Hello, you black scoundrel, what the devil are you
doing there, and why did you not open the door when I
rapped, without putting me to the trouble of breaking it
in?  Come away from there, and tell ne where that ren-
egade, Mark Lee, is concealed-for you know-or I'll put
daylight through that black carcass of yours in a mo-
ment!" exclaimed Houghton, drawing a pistol from his
belt and leveling it at the negro. " Come away from
there, I say, and take down that stick !"
"See here, Mister Houghton," replied Cupid, bracing
himself still more firmly, and spitting on lis-hands, in or-
der to get a firmer grasp on his extemporized weapon,
you kin shoot if you've a mind to. 'Taint no more than
a nigger could spec from you, any way. But dis here is
my shanty, and not a foot furder into it do you git dan
you be now, as long as dis 'ere nigger's got one bit o'life
in his body. Dar So stand back!"

,
'=F:
s
t?
;F =
.  s
#   i
ja)k
f
.i xi
,i  .i
i   4
;
'
Y
e'
F  ]I
j-, ' -
'i
i '' #
;;i
r :.ยง   :
! 't   i,
f_ ,
{;  ,,3 .
F  i  't
c' '
;, F
,   ' {-
F i;
+ ,  :    '
i     _j,
+  ,
1   t
#  . a
,tt4
# ?'
,  1 E
F   d  :;
4,


THE UNION BOYS OF' 61.        33

32              THE REFUGEES ;. OR,

"I'll teach you to threaten a white man, you black
mangy cur !" growled Houg'hton, lveling his pistol full
at poor Cupid, who looked with his one eye upon. the
threatening muzzle wildly, but neither trembled nor gave
way. "If'you aint away from there in one second, I'll-n"
Ere he could finish the sentence, his hand fell, and he
staggered back as though he had been shot himself, as
Rose, pushing Cupid on one side, stepped from the inner
room and stood defiantly before the traitor's face.
" Or else you would murder him, Miles loughton.
That is what vu mean. Shame on you, shame I" The
traitor's cheek turned ashen pale, and his eyes glared like
those of a wild beast, as h gazed upon the lovely being
before him, and saw her lip curl in indignant scorn as she
looked upon liim..
" I did not expect to find the proud Rose Morley in,
such a place, at such a time," answered Houghton, sul-
lenly.
"What do you here?   You are trespassing. This is,
my father's property. I bid you begone !"
"Yes, get out o' dis," exclaimed Cupid. " Get out!
We'll hab de law on you suah! Ebery white man's hum
is, his castle, and ebery nigger's cabin is his shield and
buckler. So git out and git !"
"Silence!" roared Jem. " Shut up or I'll split that
thick skull o' yourn."
"O-o-o---" stammered Tom, "O-o-o---" but he could get
no further, so he cut his remarks short by burying the
lower part of his face in the tin cup which he had nearly
filled with whisky, and thus left the world for ever in ig
norance of the thought with which his mind was exer-
cised.4

"What bringsyou here ?" asked Rose.
"Our errand is plain enough," responded Miles Hough-
ton, roughly. " We are in search of a renegade and a
traitor-a poor puling, cowardly doughface, who Chas de-
serted the cause to whicl he naturally owes allegiance,
and who is more than suspected of being a spy in the ser-
vice of the Yankees. He is not at "The Elms," where
we know he has been concealed for some days, and we
have good reason to believe that he is concealed some-
where hereabout."
"When you apply the names renegade and traitor to
to Mark Lee,",responded Rose, "your ownJheart, Miles
Houghton, tells you that you speak falsely. 'Tis you who
are the renegade and traitor, and not he I You have desert-
ed the cause of your country in her utmost need. You
have turned your back upon her flag, when enemies assail
it upon every hand. You have, like a coward, taken ad-
vantage of the present time, when treason dares to vaunt
itself in mid-day, to pursue and crush a true man, whom,
were it not for the number like yourself, who stand at
your back, you would not dare to face. 'Tis you who are
the traitor ! You the coward! Mark Lee is worth a thou-
sand such as you, and when you do meet him on equal
terms, you will rue the day !"
"Nay," answered the rebel, with a powerful effort,
smothering the rage which filled his heart, "I can forgive
your words. But listen to me. This man cannot escape
us. The whole of our men are on the lookout for him.
We are on his track, and we shall surely run him down.
If he is taken, I will not answer for the consequences.
The men are very bitter against him, and if his life does
not pay the forfeit of his unpatriotic course, he will at


THE REFUGEES; OR,
least suffer long and sorely. But if you really feel the
interest in him which' you profess, it is in your power to
save him."
How ?" asked Rose, earnestly.
By promising to see him no more, and by giving mn1
but one kind look, one smile, one word of hope !"
"Such words to Ine!" exclaimed the girl, proudly.
You forget yourself! Begone !"
a ._.
Oh, your pride is not broken yet, I see !" grumbled
Miles, " Well, come here, nay, come, I will not harm
you. I'll show you something that may humble it, strong
and unyielding as it is." And ioughton. stepped towards
the door.
"I do not fear you, and I will not leave this spot," she
answered firmly.
"Look out, my pretty bird, beware! You carry it
with a high head, but remember that I have but to say
the word, and your !iberty, if not . our life, is forfeited as
much as his !"1Then turning to the two subordinates who
had entered with him, he said quickly: "Lieutenant
Black and Sergeant Dill. commence the search, leave no
nook or corner unexplored, and if you find the renegade,
bring him out dead or alive !"
Thus ordered, the two men commenced the search, and
entered into the inner room.
You a: e welcome to search," Rose said, in a bantering
tone. Hie is far away ere this, beyond your reach !"
"Perhaps," replied Houghton, "but if not and he is
found concealed, I swear whatever his fate may be you
shall share it!"
." There is no one here, Colonel, said Lieut. Black, now
returning to the outer room. " We have. searched every

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

35

hole big enough for a mouse to creep through. If he was
ever here, he's gone."
"We fo-fo fo-fo-fo !" stuttered Bill, " we fo-fo-fo-"
"There, postpone that till next week, or else write it,
Sergeant," said Houghton, roughly. "I have no time to
wait for the birth of that piece of information."
The Sergeant had recourse a second time to the whis-
ky-jug, and smothered his indignation in its contents.
"I swear I will not be thus baffled! You have aided in
his escape," almost shouted Houghton, and by heaven
you shall pay the penalty !"
"What mean you ?" asked Rose, with somewhat of fear
in her tones, you surely would not-"
"I would do anything," he interrupted, "I would brave
hell, your hate, the hate of all mankind, to be revenged
on him! Seize that woman, and bear her with us! She
is a traitress, and has aided and abetted in the escape of
the renegade, Mark Lee !"
The man addressed did not stir.
"What. am I disobeyed ?"
"Col-col-colcol-" began Tom Dill, but Houghton cut
him short by commanding silence. "By heaven!I he
exclaimed, "you shall not slip from my hands! If you
will not be mine you shall not be his !"
With these words Houghton advanced towards Rose,
who retreated in terror into the inner room, where Miles
quickly followed her, and was just about to seize her in
his arms, when the floor seemed to open at his feet, and
Carlton Howard stood before him!
Leveling a pistol at the head of the rebel ruffian, he ex-
claimed:
"Stir but a hand, and you are a dead man!1

rii
- ,

itll
Ji4
f 1!"
(ii)


THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

THlE REFUGEES5; Oft,

Miles iougjhton staggered back in surprise and won-
der, while Rose, springing forward, passed behind Cupid,
who had opened the trap, and who stood with the axe
raised high above his head, ready to repel any assault up-
on his young mistress or himself. She leaped down into
the cave and disappeared, instantly followed by Carlton
howard, leaving the rebel leader alone with Cupid, and
for a moment in a state of complete bewilderment. Quick-
ly recovering his presence of -mind, however, he discharg-
ed his pistol at Cupid, and without waiting to see the re-
suit of his shot, shouted at the top of his voice:
Hither, Black ! We shall have them now !"
Then giving, orders for the bulk of the men to spread
in all directions, in scouting parties, and commanding a
few to follow him, he jumped into the cave, with a wild
shout and was lost to sight.
The cabin was. instantly filled with men. Jein Black
was the first to follow his leader, and he was succeeded
by Stuttering Tom, but his attempt to follow the example
set by his Colonel and the Lieutenant, was not successful,
for as he jumped, the skirts of his coat caught in the edge
of the opening and held him suspended, so that he could
neither get up nor further down, thus effectually blocking
up the opening and preventing the others from going in.
F-fo-for" he began, "If-fo-fo-for G-gg-g-od's sake,
ho-ho-ho-hold me up, or cu-cu cu-cut off my co-co-co-coat
tail !"
As it took sdme time to get this sentence into anything
like intelligible shape, and as, meanwhile, his body went
through the most terrible contortions, when, at last, he
had succeeded in making the suggestion, the necessity for
its execution had passed, for he had fairly wi-ithed himself

out of his garment, and slipping from its hold upon him,
lie dropped with a dull thud into the cave below.
The rest instantly followed, and then Cupid rose un-
harmed from the corner where he had fallen at the report
of the pistol, and after first shaking himself, and then feel
ing himself all over, to make sure he was not hit, he
quickly-ran into the front room, and seizing the pine knot,
which still blazed on the hearth, he placed it in the mid-
die of the floor-then dragging the bed from the other
room, he tore open the mattress, and heaped the straw
upon the blazing wood, upon which, as soon as he saw it
fairly ignited, he quickly piled all the furniture;, then
hastily quitting the cabin, and going down to the bed of
tle creek, he crept cautiously away.
By the time lie had gone a few hundred yards, the light
of the burning cabin lit up the scene for some distance
around. As the negro saw the effect of his desperate
act, he chuckled aloud :
"Ki! ki! I reckon dat'll fix you! If you don't find
de oder end of de cave, I reckon you'll stay dar for some
time, if you isn't sufekated wid de smoke, and find you-
sefs done gone altogeder. But good golly, what de deb-
bil's dat?" hs exclaimed, as he lqoked up and saw a still
brighter light reddening the sky in another direction.
Streams of flame and volumes of dark smoke rose be-
fore him high in air, and dense showers of sparks were
borne far away upon the evening breeze.
" Oh Lord o' massy ! Who's been and gone and done
dat? it's de Elms! It's de old place! It's de Squire's
house on fire! Oh de lord.; de debbil is let loose suah !"
It was too true. The homestead of the Moneys, the
dear old Elms, was one vast sheet of flame.

86

37

((I
Ji,3

.; {   t i
,.  r ,
:,
; ;
,
,  4
;,
1 s }
.
7
t ; f
t4
1  f }
_
ff
k

t 1
S3 '
E
f
1
tยฑ
i k
E, { 1
t,' ;t!
}E  l! S
t  ; L
't t
U
a.
kk,
f


8

THlE MYE UGEES ; OR!

CHAPTER IV.
MARK LEE, on reaching the cave in company with
Carlton Howard, could not, although his life depended
upon his escape, make up his mind to flee and leave her
he loved in the power of his bitterest enemy. He knew
his reckless character, and rightly judged that he would
stop at nothing which might tend to serve his purposes,
and that Rose, woman as she was, though brave and
strong as he knew her to be, would be powerless against
the cowardly and base designs of Miles Houghton, and
he felt that it would be selfish and unmanly in him to
leave her in the power of the bad man who sought his
life, and the destruction of her peace. So refusing to lis-
ten to the entreaties and prayers of Carlton Howard, he
resolved to remain at the mouth of the cave, in order if
possible to screen her from insult and from harm, even
though his own life, should be sacrificed in the effort.
With beating heart and burning brpin, he heard the con-
versation which was being carried on in the cabin above,
and, but that the door was fast, and would not yield to
his strong efforts to force it open, he would have sprung
from his concealment, and struck the villain in whose
power she was, dead at his feet.. At last the trap moved
upon its hinges, and he was about to spring upward, when
Carlton Howard seized him by the arm, and without say-

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

39

ing a word, pulled him back, and, as we have seen, leaped
into the room. In a moment he reappeared, followed by
Rose, who, almost fainting, was received in the arms of
her lover, who stood below.
Come! Not a moment is to be lost," le said, lifting
the fiuinting girl from the ground, and bearing her along'.
" We must hasten to the mouth of the cave. The distance
is not great, and if we are speedy, we may escape them
yet!"
"Let me lead the way," urged Howard, "I have ex-
plored this cave before ; not far from here there is an-
other passage, .which leads to the right, and, where we
may secure a hiding place until these miscreants have
passed, should they be so bold as to follow us."
So saying, he pushed by Mark Lee, and led the way.
Rose, meanwhile, recovering her strength, insisted upon
being allowed to follow unsupported, and placing herself
immediately in the rear of Howard, proceeded with them
on their dark and uncertain journey. They had gone but a
short distance, when it became evident that they were fol
lowed. The voice of Miles Houghton could be distinctly
heard urging his men to hasten on, and the .fugitives
quickened their steps and fled along with as much speed
as the rough and narrow passage made possible. But
fast as they went, the pursuers were evidently gaining on
them. They could hear the sound of their heavy footsteps,
and distinguish their loud curses, as they stumbled over
the various impediments which obstructed their path.
The passage was quite dark, not a gleam of light was to
be seen, and with all their exertions their progress was
necessarily slow.
At last the voice of Houghton sounded but a few steps

;
3;'#!}
.  f;
:-'{'
'# .
:s =
.,
_
 '   i
;a 3
_
$ :
;jf  t
i{
t
jt t
E;  }
.
}i
_
i
i _
r
x
s
't
'j  1
'1   +     ;
1  f    }
3
t  f
i
i
=f
i
i
'
L" .  f

*1

:'
j
i
' i
t{
.
;
,,
,.
;,
}!
' .
1 :f i
,t
ivq }
R e:  i
:
1     ,
,r  {i
{i'
#ยฐ   ,
f
i
,(
,,,
i
i      '
tit
i
4;
tx    1
,
i
{
t     1
i     ]7i
t       1


THE' UNION BOYS OF '61.

behind them. Rose's heart beat with fear, and she almost
sank to the ground, but she spoke not, and summoning all
her energies, exerted herself to the utmost to keep up
with Howard, who still led the way.
The slight distance which intervened between the pur-
suers and the pursued, decreased at every step. It seem-
ed impossible that they should escalpe when all of a sud-
den she felt herself seized by Howard and borne on one
side.
"To the right! Quick !" exclaimed Howard, in a whis-
per scarcely above his breath. Mark heard it, and turn-
ing quickly; to the right, he left the direct course of the
fissure, and in a moment all three were standing, with
suppressed breath, and palpitating hearts, in a side pas.
sage, which led from the main opening,in pitch darkness,
but secure for the present, at least, for they had hardly
stopped, ere they heard the footsteps and voices of their
pursuers, as they passed the spot where they had turned
off, and continued on their errand.
As their voices died away in the distance, and nothing
but a confused rumble indicated their presence in the
cave, Mark said in a low tone, "Now is ourKtime! Let
us proceed at once to the mouth of the cave ; they will
not imagine that they have passed us, and will, of course,
proceed directly to the Elms. Come, dear Rose, lean up-
on me. There is hope yet !"
"You are right," responded Howard, "and the sooner
we follow them the better. But see! There is a light in
the main passage ! I see the glimmer of it upon a point
of rock before us. Hush! Do not stir upon your lives.'
I will make a reconnoisance !"
So saying, he left them, and cautiously and noiselessly

pursuing his way, soon reached the main passage, when
peering cautiously around, he discovered a bright light at
the upper end of the cave, and could distinctly hear the
crackling of flames, and perceive fragments of burning
wood fall into the cave from the aperture above.
"Haste, haste !" he cried, guessing at the true cause of
that which he saw. "Haste! they have fired the cabin,
and retreat is impossible. We must gain the outlet or
we are lost!"
Mark and Rose instn.ntly obeyed the summons, and
guided by the light, which now lit up nearly the whole
length of the narrow passage, tiy reached the end of the
branch in a moment, and the three swiftly fled along, di-
recting their footsteps by the red glare of the flames at
the upper end.
Meeting with no further obstruction, they shortly near-
ed the mouth of the cave, when, to their surprise, they
saw the glare -of another fire, which threw a lurid light
directly in front of tlhemn.
"Great heavens !" exclaimed Mark, " they have fired
the cave at the other end likewise! Ah, I see their plan ;
they have suspected the trick we have played them, and
are resolved to keep us here until the morrow, when, the
fires having been extinguished, they will resume the
search. There is to hope now ! Let us sell our lives a,
dearly as we can !
"Do not despair !" said Howard, encouragingly, "let
us go on as far as we can, at anyrate. Heaven may yet
provide some means for our escape. Come on!"
" Courage, dear Rose, courage !" said Mark, addressing
the almost exhausted girl at his side, "Howard is right!
Heaven will not allow so villainous a plot to triumph I"

1:jsL

I -;z
t    a
,j
+1
t        ,y
S
1        t
s
1

if f ,3 1
1

40

THE REFUGEES OR,

41

I i
i3
i}   f
}F


THE UNION BOYS o '61.           43

"Do not fear for me," she replied, in a low voice, and
clinging closer to his side. "I am but a woman, and am
weak as one, but my soul is strong, and I do not despair..
Whate'er your fate may be, I will share it by your side.
If they drag you from me, I will die ere I submit to aught
to tinge my cheek with shame, or make me less worthy of
your love."
"Bravely spoken!" said Howard, cheeringly. "But
see, we are wrong! The fire is not at the mouth of the
cave, it is-"
"Alas! it is the Elms," exclaimed Rose, as they stood
the next moment at the outlet. "The vile wretches have
fired the old homestead. Oh, my father! my poor fa-
ther !"
As the te'ible truth rushed upon her, the overwhelm-
ing anxiety which filled her heart, overcame her, and the
unhappy girl fell senseless to the earth.
Mark knelt for a moment by her side, and lifting her
lovely head upon his knee, imprinted a long, long kiss up-
oi her cold lips; then turning to Howard, he exclaimed
in a voice choked with emotion : " Heed me no longer;
my course is taken. Guard her and protect her as you
would your life! My presence will only expose her to
more danger." Then, laying the still senseless girl upon
the green sod, he rose, and shaking Howard by the hand,
drew a pistol from his belt, and before his friend could
utter a word, he bounded away.
On he sped on the wings of the wind, straight in the
direction of the burning house, the .flames from which
were rising high up in the heavens, lighting up the land-
ecape for miles around, and casting a lurid glow upon
every object.

As Mark proceeded, he began to hear the shouts of
men, and when he had reached within a few hundred
yards of the house, he perceived by the light of the flames
the troop of horsemen commanded by Houghton, grouped
around the burning pile, and heard their shouts of joy, as,
one after the other, the rafters yielded to the flames, and
fell into the seething cauldron below.
"The poor old man '1" he murmured to himself. "The
wretches will murder him! Pray heaven I be not too
late "
A few moments more brought him to the burning house.
For a second he paused, not knowing exactly what to do,
and during that second he felt his arm grasped as in a
vice,  ie turned and saw Cupid, his eyes streaming with
tears, and his face wearing an expression of the greatest
anxiety.
"For God's sake, mass'r, do something quick! Poor
old mass'r's in the house. I know he is. I habn't done
seen him- anywhere around."
" It was a cussed shame not to find out if the old maa
was safe. When the row commenced, he fled to the cel-
lar, and has not been seen since," Mark heard a man,
standing near him, exclaim.
"Do you hear dat, mass'r ?  Come on, I know de way,
urged Cupid, quietly. " But for de Lord's sake, don't let
nobody see you, or you're a goner."
Thus advised, Mark, still wearing the spectacles which.
he had received from Howard, pulled his slouched hat fur-
ther down over his face, and strode rapidly away. Press-
ing through the crowd of people, and past the rebel horse-
men, who were gathered in knots in every direction, Cu-
pid led the way to the rear of the house, which was comn-

42             THIS REFUGEES ; OR


THE REFUGEES; On,

pletely deserted, to a low door fitted into the stone foun-
lation, against which both Mark and himself threw them-
selves at once, but their united strength proved inadequate
to burst it open. Finding their efforts useless, Mark's
eves lit upon a neighboring wood-pile, and rushing to the
spot, he seized a large log, and throwing it upon his shoul.
ders, as though it had been a feather, he ran with it to the
door of the cellar, bringing the end of the log to bear
with all its momentum against it. The experiment was
successful. The door flew open, and in a moment both
entered the cellar. It was filled with a dense, suffocating
smoke, and not an object was discernable. As they were
groping about, a low, dull, creaking sound from above fell
upon their ears.
The roof is falling in," exclaimed Mark. "We are,
too late! too late !"
"flurry, mass'r. and let's' get out o' dis, de ole man can't
be here," urged Cupid.
But at this moment Mark's foot caught upon an object
on the ground, and stooping, hastily, his hand came in
contact with the prostrate form of a man.
"Thank God !" he ejaculated. He is yet alive! Help,
Cupid, help !"
In an instant Cupid was by his side, and together they
raised the insensible body of the man, and bore it quick-
ly to the open air, and some distance from the house.
They had scarcely done so, when a heavy crash resounded
through the air, mnyriads of sparks floated upwards, filling
the sky with fire, and the late stately old mansion tottered
to the earth, a heap of ruins!
William Morley, for it was surely he, quickly revived
under the influence of the fresh breezes of the night, and

I

raising his aged head, silvered with the frosts of sixty
winters, looked wildly about him.
He did not recognize Mark in his 'disguise, but turning
to him, said in a faint voice:
"Whoever you be, receive an old man's thanks! But
where is my.daughter? Where is my dear child ?"
"Fear not for her," replied Mark. "She is with one
who will, I trust, protect her from all harm. Had'I not
thought so, I should not now be here."
"Ah, that voice!" exclaimed the old man, rising to his
knees and gazing upon Mark. " Surely I should know it.
Are you not-"
"Yes, yes !" answered the young man. " But do not
breathe my name! Come, this is no longer any place for
you or me. Let us away at once. I will tell you all
hereafter."
Slowly Morley rose to his feet, and shaking the hand
of Cupid in a grateful manner, he followed the faithful
black, who led the way towards the barn, which stood
but a short distance off, the old man heing supported by
the stalwart arm of his preserver.
They had pursued their way in silence but a few rods,
when a party of men, coining from the front of the house,
discovered them. By the light of the blazing ruins, the
features of Wn. Morley were easily discernible, and the
foremost of the party shouted:
"Yore they are! Yere's the old man! Hurrah, we've
got the doughface now!
Instantly a crowd of men rushed towards them, among
them the leader of the band of rebels, Miles Houghton.
Flight was useless, and for an instant Mark felt his
heart sink within him, but quickly recovering his energy

tf     ;
if
{ 1
Y"
7  r
e'
i!
t !   c
t F   f
1   A,
4  t  ;
.t {
f l
t
2
prE
fy f
I1
f {
,k a
i
ff .
if, t
i
Fs !
} {  t
fl
c
Y
Y

TUB tTNIoN Boys or 6L

45

44


46

TUE' REFUGEES ; OR,

and resolution, he looked 'about him, and discovering'
among the promiscuous crowd, who had been attracted to
the spot by the conflagration, several whom he knew to be
true to the Union cause, he stopped, and drawing his pis-
tols, and handing one to William Morley, he shouted:
"Stand back! The first man who lays his hand upon
these grey hairs, dies! What, are you men, that, not sat-
isfied with the crime you have already committed, you
should wish to dye your hellish hands in the blood of this
poor old man ? if there is a man here who loves his Ta18
tive land, who would frown upon rapine, arson, and on
murder, I summon him to my side! Union men to the
rescue!",
By this time, every person, not belonging to the troop
of horse, had reached the spot, and as Mark uttered the
last words, some dozen men, all armed in various way s
sprang to his side.
"I know that voice !" shouted Miles loughton. "It'.
Mark Lee's, the Abolitionist! Down with him! H
there, men ! Mount! Charge! This way ! This way!
As he uttered these words, he sprang forward toward
Mark, followed by several men. He was met by those
who had gone to the rescue of Mark,-'on hearing his p
triotic summons, and several more, and a general mel
ensued. Several shots were fired, and one or two fell
both sides.
Meanwhile, Mark was forcibly seized by some one bi
hind him and pulled to the rear of the crowd, and
hoarse voice whispered in his ear
." Go! You'll git chawed .up ef yer don't. You'll fin
horses hitched behind the corn-crib; take 'em and
away like lightning."

THE UNION BOYS OF' 61.

47

Mark turned and found himself in the arms of a tall,
brawny man, whom lie had never seen before. He was
dressed in deer-skin,-and bore a long rifle on his arm.
Seeing Mark hesitate, he guessed the cause, and again
spoke, in a low voice : " The old mian is there waiting.
I gin Cupid the hint. They are off. Foller 'em quick,
or you'll be chawed up as clean as a mushrat's tail! I'll
kick up a shindig and keep 'em off your trail!"
With these words he dashed forward into the front of
the fight, and Mark, thus urged, and seeing the body of
horse already mounted and dashing at full speed towards
the scene of the combat, which was every moment grow-
ing fiercer, sprang away, and turning the angle of the
barn, which was a few steps off, was lost to sight of his
pursuers. Then starting on a run, he reached the crib
which stood some twenty yards from the'barn, when he
found his strange preserver had spoken truth, for there,
ready mounted, were the old man and Cupid.
Without exchanging a word, Mark leaped into the sad-
die of another horse, and calling out, "Follow  me!"
dashed into the neighboring field, which they crossed, and
then paused a moment on the edge of the dense woods
which skirted it.
The short struggle between the small party of Union-
ists and Houghton's band, was already over, for lie heard
the shouts of the triumphant party, and the voice of
Houghton rose clear and distinct above the din, urging
his men to the pursuit of the flying Union men.
"My time will come !" Mark muttered, as urging his
horse forward, he dashed into the wood, followed by Mor-
ley and Cupid.

ii


d8

CHAPTER V.
TAE three fugitives pursued their way through the
woods for some distance, in silence. No sounds were.
heard save the tramp of their horses, and the distant
shouts of the baffled rebels, who had, evidently mistaken
the direction they had gone, and were off, on a false scent.
At last they reached the Greenbriar river, and Mark Lee,
who was in advance of the little party, pulled rein and
came to a halt. The others followed his example.
Mark was the first to speak. " We must make the best
of our way," he said, hurriedly, " to the camp of General
McClellan. Once within his lines, we are safe 1"
"But Rose! What will become of her ?" asked Wil-
liam Morley, with paternal anxiety.
"She is under the protection of Carlton Howard," an.
swered Mark.
"Carlton Howard !" repeated William Morley, in sur-
prise.
"Yes. But for him she would now be in the power of
that scoundrel, Miles Houghton," replied Mark, and then
went. on to relate, in as few words as possible, the occur-
rences which took place at Cupid's cabin.
"But we are losing time," Mark added, as he finished
his narration. "Let us on, once more! We must follow
the river's course.  Come, let us forward!  We must

THE REFUGEES ; OR,

reach the cabin which Howard spoke of, 'ere morning.
Fear not, all will yet be well." " When we arrive there,
I trust we shall find Rose and Carlton before us."
"Say you so ?" exclaimed Morley. "Then let us lose
no time, but onward with all speed I" and thus speaking,
lie urged his horse forward, followed by Mark and Cupid.
They had proceeded about a quarter of a mile, when.
as they passed ,a sharp turn in the road, they saw, not ten
steps in advance of them, a group of three men standing
directly in. their path. Instantly they drew rein, and
came to a sudden halt.
"There are but three of them," said Mark, snatching
his pistol from his belt, while William Morley followed
his example, and drew theweapon which Mark had placed
in his hand, after they had been attacked in the vicinity
of the Elms. "There are but three, and they are on foot.
while we are mounted. Let us make a.dash, charge upon
them, and fire as we pass1"
He was jest about to rush forward, when one of the
three men advanced toward them, shouting:
" Hold on, Squire! Hold on, Mark Lee! Don't be
skeered ! It's only me!"
" Who are you ?" asked Mark, leveling his pistol at the
still advancing man. "Stand, or I fire'
" Well, if you do, you'll let them cussed, murderin, devils
know where you are, and you'll have the hull bilen on 'em
down on you in the crack of a rifle. -They aint far off.
I seed 'em pass, and they are a laying for you in the
woods to the left."
"Who are you? How do we know that you. are not
of them?" asked Mark, still keeping the man covered
with his pistol. "Answer!I

49

TAE UNION BOYS OF '61.


THE UNION BOYS OF '61.        51

50

THE REFUGEES,; OR,

"You're a looking for a cabin with a pine branch onto
it, aint ye ?" asked the nian.
" I am," answered Mark.
Well, I'm the proprietor of that ar clearing, and-"
"Which way does the river run ?", asked Mark, inter-
rupting him, and thinking of Carlton Howard's instruce-
tions.
"North !" answered the man. "Put down your pistol.
Your ears aint very, good, or you'd have know'd mo
afore."
By this time he had advanced close to the side of Mark,
and by the clear light of the moon, the young man recog-
nized in the person before him, the stranger who had so
providentially appeared in his defence at the Elms, and
who had directed them to the horses.
" Why, it is-" Mark began, but William Morley inter-
rupted him, exclaiming
"Hank, the Hunter! I know him! A. better fellow
never lived, or a truer man. We may trust him. He is
a friend 1"
" Thankee, Squire !" said the man.  "I reckon thar
aint no treason in me, no how. But it aint no use to
stand gabhin' here. Jest as soon as the scrimmage was
over, inc and themt two friends o' mine, we put! I know
the digging s pooty well, so I tuck a short cut and got here,
half an hour before them pisonous seceshers went along.
I watched 'em, and arter they had gone on here a piece,
they got off their horses and began to hunt for your trail,
which, as you hadn't made none, they didn't see. So they
led their horses into the brush, and are a waiting till you
come along. But we'll fix em !",
" What must we do ?" asked William Morley, seeming

to place all confidence in the shrewdness and faithfulness
of Hank. Then turning to Mark, he said, in a low voice,
" We cannot do better than put ourselves under his direc-
tions."
"Be it so," answered Mark. "But have you seen no-
thing of Carlton Howard ?" lie asked of Hank, with some
anxiety. " I had hoped he would have been here before us."
I reckon he'll take care of himself," answered Hank.
"You needn't be oneasy about him. But there'll be more
o' them seceshers by here, maybe, afore long, so we paint
got no time to lose. Follow me and don't make no noise.
But you'd better git off your bosses. So 'light, and I'll
lead 'em into the brush. They'll be safe there till morn-
ing, and then I'll take care on 'em. Maybe they'll be
needed."
"Now look a' here," said Hank, on reappearing from
the woods, whither he had taken the horses, " we've got
to git the best o' them 'ere fellows some way or another,
and if we kin git the Squire and Mr. Lee out o' their pi-
sen clutches, without a fight, so much the better. Not
that I keer a dried apple about 'em, but a bullet shot by a
nigger, if it's aimed right, is jest as sure death as though
it war fired by the best white man that ever drawed
breath, and I don't keer about having the Squire or Mr.
Lee sent to kingdomeome by such derned trash as these
here pisonous rebels is. 'Sides, Gineral McClellan has
got use for 'em. le wants jist sich men, and if I kin
help him git 'em, count on me !"
ยฐ' You are right, flank," answered Mark. "If we can
avoid a conflict with these murdering and incendiary
dogs, so much the better just now. Not that I value my
life a pin's fee. What I am, and all I have, is my coun-


52

THE REFUGEES; OR,

try's, and I would preserve it for her sake, in the hope of
doing good in her sacred cause."'
"Dat's so !" put in Cupid, who, until now, had been a
silent listener. " One live man is worf a dozen dead ones,
any day. Dat's so!. If dey kills me, I aint no account,.
no how. But if dey should kill Mass'r Lee, it 'id be
mighty bad, suah !'
"We must cross the river. It is no use trying to reach
the bridge, because by going in that direction, we shall
undoubtedly fall into the ambush whMich has been prepared
for us," said William Morley, "and besides, it will not be
possible to reach the camp of McClellan by the main
road, as we should undoubtedly fall in with Garnett's men
if we made the attempt."
"There's only one way of circumventing the rebel
devils," said Hank. " We must get in their rear! My
canoe is tied on this side, not far above here. If we kin
only reach it, it will be all right. So let's take to the
woods, and if we're right smart, we shall git there afore
daylight."
"Then lead on!" exclaimed Mark. " Every moment is
precious."
Without saying another word, Hank struck off into the
woods to the left, followed by Mark, William Morley,
and Cupid, Hank's two companions bringing up the rear.
In a short time they heard the barking of a dog, and the
sound of voices in advance of them, and to the i-iglit.
"That's them," said Hank, "but we are between them
and the river, and if the dog don't scent our trail, we'll
fool, 'em yet."
They continued their course, cautiously, for awhile and
theu, as they put a greater distance between themselves

THE UNION BOYS OF '1.        -5
and the rebels, more rapidly, until they reached the river,
and proceeded onward on- a line parallel with its course.
They had reached to within about two hundred yards of
the place where Hank's canoe was tied, when they were
startled by loud shouts behind them, accompanied by the
yelping of a hound.
"By the lord, they have 'got on our trail" exclaimed
Hank. " That infernal dog has snuffed us out. There is
no time to be lost. Follow mse !" and he started off at
the top of his speed along the river bank, followed by the
:est.
The sounds grew nearer, but they had reached, the canoe.
"Now pile in," exclaimed Hank, as he drew the heavy
dug-out along the bank. "Get in, Squire. Get in, Mark
Lee. And here, Cupid, you take the paddle, and paddle
straight across. I'll hold these pups at bay. Be quick !"
Almost as soon as the words were spoken, his direc-
tions were obeyed, and in less time than it takes us to re-
late it, the two fugitives and Cupid were seated in the ca-
noe, while hank, jumping from the low bank onto a log
which lay beside it, caught the bark by one end, and
swinging her head round, pushed her, with lightning
speed, from the shore, while Cupid plied his paddle with
all his skill and strength. By this time, the crackling of
the branches under the swift feet of the pursuers, and the
sounds of their voices, were distinctly heard.
Hank dropped on his knee, while his two companions
secreted themselves behind the large sycamores, which
grew along the river's bank. They had hardly done this,
when a large, rough-looking dog, of the hound species,
came up 'yelling, and made directly for flank, who, as he
sprang towards him, seized the animal by the throat with


54

THE REFUGEES; OR,

one hand, and in the twinkling of an eye, plunged a large
hunting knife deep in his breast, from which the blood
spouted in a thick, black stream, showing that the steel
had penetrated his heart.
"So much for that varmint," Hank muttered, between
his teeth, as he threw the dying brute into the river, and
once more grasped his rifle. " Now for his master 1"
As he spoke, two men reached the river bank, not twen-
ty yards above him. The foremost one exclaimed:
" There they are ! quick ! fireI"
Simultaneously both raised their weapons, but, at the
same moment, the sharp crack of a rifle was heard, and
the foremost fell into the stream, with a bullet through
his brain, directed by the unerring aim of Hank, while,
almost at the same time, a second shot was heard, and the
other rebel uttered a loud yell, and leaping sonie feet into
the air, fell forward a corpse.'
Now, then, boys, away !" shouted Hank, "before the
others can reach here. The Squire will be safe on t'other
side, and we out of reach ! See, they are more than half
way! Hurrah !" he shouted at the fugitives in the, fast
receding canoe. " Hurrah" "
Mark waved his hat in response, which, as soon as
Hank saw, he darted down the stream at the top of his
speed, followed by his companions.

I

I-

THE UNION BOYS OF' 6l.
CHAPTER VI.

IT was three days after the incidents related in the last
chapter transpired, that, towards the close of the after-
noon, three persons might have been seen to emerge from
a deep ravine in the side of a mountain, at the foot of
which lay the town of Beverly, Virginia. All three bore
about them the evidences of a long and tedious journey,
and as they emerged frontn the dense undergrowth of the
woods, and stood upon the open. ground, they looked
about them with caution, as if in dread of some sudden
surprise.
Th'le party consisted of Squire Morley, Mark Lee, and
our old acquaintance, Cupid, who had thus far succeeded
in evading the vigilance of their pursuers, and who had
now.arrived within a short distance of the camp of Gen-
eral McClellan.
"iWell, dar !" exclaimed Cupid, whose courage had not
for a moment flagged, but who had proved his devotion
and fidelity at every step. "Well, dar! we's out o' de
woods at anyrate, and I reckon we's all right! But, lor'
o' massy, wot's we going to do for supper? I's orful hun-
gry, and I s'pose we all is. Two squirrels and a possum,
widout salt, and no dodger, isn't much for tree men in tree
days; and, golly! a little old baldface- wouldn't be bad,
neider ! Look a' heah, Mass'r Lee, you and de Squirejist

4     ,


THE REFUGEES ;.OR, -
hole on heah a little while, and let de ole nigger go .d
see what's to be picked up. I's as honest a nigger as ever
was, but by de lor' Harry, if dark's a chicken anywhar's
around heah, he'll have to roost high if I don't get him !"
Nono. Cupid," answered Mark, laying his hand upon
the darkey's shoulder, as he was about starting on his self.
appointed mission, " we will still go on together. We
have a friend hereabout who will supply all our wants, if
we can only find him.
Whom mean you?" asked William Morley.
I mean," answered, Mark, producing from the lining
of his hat, the letter given to him by Canton Ihoward,
" the person to wv hom this letter is directed-one Morni
Brice. lie is a friend to the good causle, and will Provet
ours, can we but find him. lie lives in yonder town,
and-"
" Morris Brice !" ejaculated Cupid, interrupting Mark
in the midst of his explanations, "I knows hih,; mass'r.
What a gall durned chuekle~headed nigger I is !  know
him 1 1, been dar ! Why, I didn't know war we was! lI
knows now. I been gone to his place many a time, and it
aint more'ti a mile from here ! Why, bless yoN, mans'r
I kin take you right to the spot. Follow me.tC, Mass'r
Lee l" and Cupid took a step or two in advance.
"Stop 1" interposed Mark, " we had better keep to the
woods, and not attempt to reach the house of Morris
Brice before nightfall."
" Just as you say, nass'r ; if you kin stand it I kin.
and I'm e hungry as a woodchuck in spring ! If' I don't
disremember, dark's a bridge across de road, on de toder
side o' dis strip o' woods, and we'd better get on toder
side o' dat, and den lay low till night. I knows dis heahi

THE TNION BOYS Or '61.

67

country like a book, 'cause, afore Squire Morley owned
nQ, I b'longed;to Major Brown, wot lives jist on de norf
side ob de hill yonder."
" Well, then," said Mark, "lead the way. and be cau-
tious. Come, Mr. Morley, let us on1" the young man
continued, as he turned- towards the father of Rose, with
an effort to appear hopeful. " Courage! Rose is in good
hands, and is, I dare say, by thistime within the Union
lines, awaiting our arrival."
." Heaven grant it may be so," replied William Morley,
raising his eyes to heaven, as'they once more entered the
woods and pursued their way, led by the faithful Cupid.
A fter traversing a distance of about a mile, they cane
to the bridge of which the black had spoken. It was a
narrow structure, just wide enough for one of the large
wagons of the country to cross, and spanned a rapid
mountain stream, which at the time we speak of, was
about twenty yards in breadth. Beyond the bridge there
was a steep hill, on the other side of which lay a little
hamlet, consisting of sonie half a dozen houses, and on
each side of the stream the ground rose almost precipi-
tously to a considerable height, so that in order to gain
the hamlet where Brice resided. it was necessary that they
should keep the road. According to their plans, how-
ever, it became also necessary for them to avoid the pub-
lic highway while light lasted, and after they had crossed
the bridge, and proceeded up the road some fifty yards,
Mark halted.
" Don't stop heah, mass'r," said Cupid, with some en-
ergy. "About twenty rods furder ahead, dere is a place
whar we can hide for a month. Come on, quick as xou
can, too, 'cause I tinks I hear hosses not far off.

'r i'
'  i
;   ;
,j}  1
,
",,;1;   !
i=;
_ ,
{  r
I I  g
'^,  +,
i ,.

5
.#
}
ly
r 3
yL
#
i

do


THE REFUGEES ; OR,

Even as he spoke, the ,clattering of horses' hoofs fell
upon their ears, and voices in conversation were distinct,
ly audible.
"You are right,', exclaimed Mark- "On, quick!
Cupid did not wait to be told twice, but dashed ahead
as fast as his deformed legs could carry him, closely fol,
lowed by the others. When he had advanced a short dis-
tance, he turned short to the left, beckoning to Mark and
William Morley to follow, and led the way down the
steep side of a gorge which set off from the road, and did
not halt until he had reached the bottom, which was cov-
ered with a dense growth of paw-paw trees, the heavy fo-
liage of which would completely conceal any object under
them from view.
"Now, den, Mass'r Morley and Mass'r Lee, lay low,
and de debbil hisself wouldn't find us here."
" I hope," said Mark, as he crept into the friendly shade
of the bushes, "that this is the last time we shall ever be
obliged to hide in secret places like hunted wild beasts."
"God speed the hour of our deliverance," ejaculated
William Morley, firmly.
While they were thus seeking shelter, a party of horse-
men emerged from the wood, upon the road they had so
recently left, and came to a halt a few yards in advance
of the bridge.
They were some twenty in number, and were led by
Miles Houghton, who, as soon as a halt was called, beck-
oned to his side Jem Black and Stuttering Tom, and a
consultation took place.
"I fear we are too late, curse upon it !" growled Miles,"
gritting his teeth and biting his lips alternately. " I know
they have taken this direction, and reel sure they are not

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

59

far off. It will not do to push forward now except with
caution, or we may come upon the cussed Federal pickets,
and-"
" Well, let us cross the bridge at anyrate," said Jem
Black.
"No," answered loughton, "I reckon we'd better stay
where we are, some of us, at any rate !"
"I-I-I-I---" Tom Dill commenced, "I'll-"
"I know what you are going to say," said Miles, inter-
rupting him. "You will stay here. Is that it?"
"T-t-t4-t-exactly !" replied Stuttering Tom, after a per-
sistent effort, in the course of which his body  went through
as many contortions as a dying eel. and his face assumed
every painful expression of which the human countenance
is capable.
" All right! Remain here, then, while we proceed fur-
ther on. If they do not make their appearance by dark,
cross the bridge and join us. We shall camp on the other
side of Hunterstown. I will leave you three men to
keep you company 7"
Torn nodded his assent, after a vain effort to express
himself in words, and Miles Houghton selected the three
who were to remain with him. Then turning to Captain
Black, he;said, "There are but three of them-Mark
Lee, William Morley, and that blasted imp, Cupid. Rose
Morley is not with them, and it is not unlikely that hear-
ing the direction her father has taken, she may attempt to
follow. There is no way of reaching the Federal camp
but by this road. So sloe and they must pass here if they
have not done so already. Come, boys, forward! And
hark ye, Tom Dill! keep your eye skinned  . If we suc-
ceed, you shall swim in whisky, and if we fail, through


60               THE REFUGEES; OR,
your neglect, I'll put a bullet through your carcass!1 Do
you understand ?
Tom nodded his head, and began a reply in full, but be-
fore he could manage to hitter a syllable, Hfotighton and
the rest of the party had crossed the I)ridge.
Ton gazed after them for a few momeiit, and various
expressions-passed over his face as he did so. At first the
seemed inclined to follow Miles, and actually took several
steps with that intentions. but halting  suddenly, he turned
quickly toward the three men, who were to be his con-
panions, and with much difficulty said
"I say, boys, I reckon we might as well take things
easy. So s'pose we jist 'light and hitch our losses! Dis-
mount !" he shouted, as he leaped off his horse, a thing
which the others had done at least five minutes before,
having anticipated that which he was making such despe-
rate efforts to speak."
They aiit likely to come along in a hurry," he wenit
on, as they led their horses slowly in the direction of the
woods,1" and I'll bet some of 'em licv gone over already.
ut I reckon we'll hev to obey orders, so you jest lay low
here, in the woods, and I'll keep a look-out, at the bridge,
though I reckon it won't make much difference if we all
fall asleepI!"
So saying, Tom hitched his horse to a tree near the
edge of the wood bordering on the road, and after seeing
that his companions did the same, he took his ,'canteen
from his side, and raising it to his lips, winked, and put-
ting the mouth of the vessel to his lips, elevated the bot-
tom in the air, keeping it in that position foi' several sec-
onds, a low, gurgling sound, and the quick risi ngand'fall-
ing of that part Qf the human anatomy knowi\ as the

I

I

1
r

"Adam's apple," giving ocular and audible demonstration
that the contents of the canteen were rapidly finding an
outlet. After he had taken a long draught, he withdrew
the vessel from his lips, and wiping the mouth of it with
the back of his hand, uttered the word " Whisky !" as if
it had been shot out of his mouth, and handed it to the
irmen, who successively went through the same operation,
on a limited scale, for, as soon as Tom thought that one
hai taken his full share, he cut him short by snatching the
canteen from his hands, and handing it to the next, until
all had drank as much as he thought the circumstances of
the case required.
This ceremony over, Torn returned the canteen to its
place at his side, and walked towards the bridge, stop-
ping within about ten feet of its nearest end.
Looking around him, lie espied a rock a short distance
off, which he went towards, pondering on his way, and
finally took his seat upon it.
 This here is a nice kind o' business !" he muttered to
himself, without the slightest hesitation observable in his
speechi, for the most inveterate -stutterers, strange as it
may seem, have no difficulty in uttering their thoughts
aloud, when there is no one to look at or listen to them.
" This is a nice kind o' bisness for a man to be in. Run-
nin down white men, jest as if they was runaway niggers!
Dod rot it, Mark Lee never did me no harm. Didn't he
git nc clear that time I was afore the Court for licking
Bill Miller, 'cause he stole my shot-pouch when I got
drunk at Phil Logan's doggery, and put axle gcease in my
har?  I don't b'lievc he's ary Abolitionist. He didn't
vote for Abe Linc'n, sure! Besides, what in thuhder do I
keer abdat seceshin. 'Taint a going to do~ me no good,

I

'e:

THE.tUNION BOYS OF' 61.

f!

61

;
,,
[E
t
3
iM


62               THE REFUGEES ; OR,
I was jest as well off afore seceshin, as I reckon I shall be
arter it. Then there's the old Squire. A better man
never gin a fellow a drink, when he was dry, and his
latch-string was always open to me. What on airth do I
want to interfere with hiiii for, like a mean, dogon, ornery
cuss? It aint a goin' to do me no good, a doin' dirty
work tor Miles Houghton! What does he care for me?
He'll put a bullet through my carcass, will he? Well,
maybe he will, but if he does, I'm domed.
With this'ejaculation he rose to his feet, and poising his
short carbine over his shoulder, he took another pull at
his canteen, and then cutting an enormous slice of tobacco
from a plug of that weed, which lie took from his pocket,
put it in his mouth and chewed it savagely, walking up
and down, meanwhile, in a state of great mental agitation.
He continued this for some minutes. Then turning a
quick and inquiring glance towards the spot where he had
left the three men, he exclaimed : "I'll do it! Dogon if
I don't! Hurrah for the Union, and Secesh go to thun-
der ! Here goes for Gen'l McClellan and the ole flag !"
With these words lie started across the bridge, and in a
few minutes disappeared in the distance.
By this time the sun was near its setting, and the shad-
ows thrown by the tall trees by the side of the road, ex-
tended themselves far away into the forrest. All was si-
lent as the grave. No sound was heard save the soft,
murmurs of the evening breeze, or the brawling of the
stream as it went tearing over the rocks, through its nar-
row channel.
Suddenly, however, the men who had- been left in the
woods by Tom Dill, and who were reclining at full length
upon the thick moss which covered the base of the enor-

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

63

mous trees which grew by the side of the wood, were
aroused from their lethargy by the sound of voices, and
rising quickly, cast their eyes up the road in the direc-
tion from which the sounds proceeded.
After waiting a few morhents, two persons came into
view, riding side by side, and engaged in conversation.
The one who rode upon the left was a man in the full
flush of early manhood. He was dressed plainly, but a
brace of pistols bristled at his waist, and over his shoul-
der he carried a long rifle. On his right rode a fair
young girl, whose lovely 'features were marked'-by' a shade
of deep anxiety, and whose beautiful eyes were red as if
with recent weeping. Their horses moved slowly, as if
they had been over-ridden, and the general appearance of
the travelers indicated a long and painful journey.
'Hush !" exclaimed one of Houghton's men, in a low
voice. "That's them!"
"Them? Who ?" asked one of his companions.
"Why, Squire Morley's daughter and Carl ton Hotwrd.
I wonder where on earth Tom Dill has gone? 'I saw h m
go on t'other side of the bridge. Let's lay low a niy e,
any way, until they get past."
By this time the two persons had ridden to within a
short distance of where the men lay concealed, so that
their conversation could be distinctly heard.
" We are nearly at our journey's end, for to day, at any-
rate," said Carlton Howard to Rose, for the man had
been right in his declaration of their identity. " We
have scarcely a mile to go. Summon all your energies,
then, Miss Morley, and I trust, ere morning, to be able
to restore you to those you love."
" Alas 1" replied the young girl, "I fear I have miscat

4
i
3
r

f    {  A
S    $
f  '
tjRR   4
j       r
}'
j      d
L
S
.   ,
i
.


64               THE .REFUGEES  OR,
culated my power. I have scarcely strength to retain my
place upon this poor jae
and the excitement of the past few days, added to the hor.
rible uncertainty I feel as regardS my father, and-"
I can well understand all you feel," interrupted Carl-
ton Howard," and wonder that you have borne up against
such an accumulation of misfortunes in the manner you
have. But one effort more, and soon, I trust, all will be
well. Come-courage! courage ! we have but to pass
yonder hill.
By the time the last words were uttered, Carlton and
his fair charge had passed out of hearing, whereupon the
man who had first spoken, rose, and going to his horse,
mounted with all speed. The other two followed his ex-
ample.
We must head them off!" he exclaimed, before they
can cross the bridge. But don't fire, unless he is spunky
and won't gin in. Come! "
Instantly the speaker led the way, in a diagonal direc-
tion towards the bridge, which Rose and her protector
were slowly approaching, with the view of intercepting
them before they reached it, but they had proceeded but a
short distance, when the quick ear of howard detected
the sound of their horses' feet, and reining his own horse
suddenly, lie caught at the same time the bridle of the an-
imal ridden by Rose. ,
Thlis did not escape the observation of Iloughton's men',
and the foremost one now seeing the impossibility of' get-
ting any closer without being discovered, put spurs to his
horse and dashed at once towards the road, followed by
his companions, and in a moment the three were dashing
up the highway, in full view of Howard and his charge.

THE UNION BOYS OF 'Ol.            65
"By heaven !" he exclaimed, "they are a part of Hough.
ton's men, and there are three of them! What's to be
done ?"
He did not hesitate long, but at once urged on his horse
and that of Rose; but the jaded beasts could not be in-
duced to move beyond a walk. Flight was therefore use-
less, and by this time the leading one of the three men
was within a few yards of him.
" Halt !" cried the man, riding up. "Halt and give an
account of yourselves."
Quick as thought, Mark drew a pistol from his belt,
and leveling it quickly at the man, fired. With a loud
exclamation of pain, the man instantly fell back in his
saddle, bathed in blood, for the fatal bullet had pierced
his body, while Mark, pointing his long rifle at the others'
who were approaching, cried out:- "Keep back, you
murdering hounds! Keep back! Halt, I say! Move
one step further and I fire!"
The sight.of their companion weltering in his bloods
and the determined air of Carlton Howard, had the de
sired effect upon the two men, for they both reined up
their horses and stood motionless in ,the road, not more
than ten yards off.
"If I can but gain five minutes time," said Howard to
the almost fainting girl, "Hank and his party will be
here. So for heaven's sake push on! I will defend their
passage of the bridge with my life. Fly and save your-
self. I believe the villains are unarmed, save the sabres
which they carry, and I am a match for a dozen such.
Fly and stop at the second house on the right, after you
have passed the other bridge, not a mile from here. There
you are safe, and will, I hope, find your father and Mark
Lee! By God's help I'll join you soon. Now go !"


66

THE REFUGEES ; OR,

Thus urged, the young girl once more turned her horse's
head up the road, and exclaiming, in a voice overflowing
with emotion, "' Heaven preserve you, Mr. Howard !" she
urged her horse forward, this time with more success, and
in a short time had crossed the bridge, and commenced
the ascent of the hill. She had not proceeded far, how-
ever, before her progress was arrested by the appearance
of an armed man, who dashed suddenly out of the woods
to the left, and standing directly in the road, made signs
for her to halt. She obeyed instantly, trembling from
head to foot. -The man came towards her at once, his
face distorted to a fearful degree, while lie uttered a series
of unintelligible sounds.
Her nervousness, the excitement she had already under-
gone, her sense of danger, the bloody sight she had just,
witnessed, and the horrible contortions of the man's face,
all tended to destroy her presence of mind, and uttering
a shrill, piercing scream, the reins dropped from her
hands, and crying, ,"Help! Mark! Mark!" in a loud
voice, she fell back fainting.
"Blast it, she's swounded !" exclaimed Tom Dill, for it
was he, and now that there was no one to listen to him,
he found no difficulty in speaking. " What did she want
to do that for?  I warn't agoin to hurt her."  But seeing
that she was quite insensible, and was about falling from
her horse, Stuttering Tom gently lifted her to the ground,
and carried her to the road side, where he at once com-
menced some rude attempts at restoring her to conscious-
ness.
It was not yet quite dark, and in. the dusk of the even-
ing Carlton Howard had been enabled to, observe all that,
took place. He still held the two men at bay, and the

I

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

67

horse ridden by the man who had fallen, being freed from
his rider, had approached to within a few feet of where
howard stood. His resolution was taken in a moment.
Quick as thought he leaped from the back of the animal
he had been seated upon, and seizing the rebel's horse by
the bridle, vaulted upon his back, and dashed off, at full
speed, across the bridge, to the rescue of Rose, supposing,
of course, that she had fallen into the hands of her en-
eny. 'He had no sooner done thus, ere the two horsemen,
taking heart of grace at his disappearance, followed in
pursuit.
As Stuttering Tom heard the clatter of the horse's
hoofs, he looked up, and seeing Howard approaching, and
the other two pursuing, he left his charge and fled precip-
itately into the woods, and again took a course towards
the bridge, with the intention of intercepting his former
companions. This lie succeeded in doing by running into
the middle of the road, and by signs ordering them to
halt, which they did, and a conversation ensued between
them, in the course of which he learned the fate of the
man who had been foremost in the pursuit of Howard.
Meanwhile Howard reached the side of Rose Morley,
and. was about dismounting from his horse, when he was
surprised by the sudden appearance of Mark Lee, from
the woods on the left, followed by Cupid and William
Morley.
"That voice! those cries !" exclaimed Mark, in great
excitement.  "Surely my ears did not deceive me! I
heard my name called, and cries for help by one-ah !" he
exclaimed, for the first time catching sight of Howard,
but not recognizing him, "-this time we meet man to man,"
and drawing his pistol, he rushed towards him.


THE REFUGEES ; OI1,

"HoldI".do you not know me?" exclaimed Howard,
hastily jumping from his horse and raising his hand  "It
is I, Carlton Howard! Put up your weapon, man, and
hasten to Rose, who has fainted !"
"6 Great heaven!" exclaimed Mark. seeing the senseless
form of poor Rose, and rushing to her side. " What does
this mean? and why did Rose utter those cries ?"
"I will explain some other time," replied Howard.
Just now we have little time for talking. See to the girl
while I look after these scoundrels. Follow me, Cupid.
Quick !" exclaimed Carlton Howard, as he once more
mounted his horse and dashed down the road.

68

,
P

THE UNION Boys OF '61.

CHAPTER VII.
NIGHT had now fallen, but the moon, which was about
half full, shed her brilliant light upon the scene, and by her
beams Howard saw the three men standing in the middle
of the road, some distance front the bridge. As he rode
rapidly forward, his rifle poised upon his arm, ready for
instant use, he was somewhat surprised to see Stuttering
Tomt approach him, making signs of a pacific character,
but suspecting it to be a ruse, he drew up his rifle and:
brought it t?,,bear upon him. At this, Tom threw up
both hands, and then stopped and laid his short carbine
upon the ground, in token of submission, whereupon
Howard again rested his rifle across his saddle-bow, and
riding up to him, demanded to know what he meant.
Ton's body instantly began to go through a thousand
contortions, but he managed to stammer out, "A-all
right, M-m-ister toward. I have concluded Secesh won't
pay and I've joined your side. I was running avay, when
I diskivered Miss Morley going over the hill, and I was
afeared she would meet the Capt'n, who is coming this
'ere way, and 1 stopped her to tell her she'd be tuck, sure,
ef she kep on, when she up and f-f-fainted. Jist as I was
agoin to help her, I saw you a coining, and as I know'd
you'd shoot me afore I could git out a word, I run."

69


70

THE REFUGEES ; OR,

All this was said in a very low tone, and with great
difficulty.
"How do I know you are not lying ?" asked Howard,
suspiciously, and putting his hand upon one of the pistols
which he carried at his waist. "This may be but an ex-
cuse to detain me here, until the rest of your murdering
band come up."
By this time Cupid had reached the side of Howard,
and stood, pistol in hand, ready to go in on the slightest.
signal from the Unionist.
"Don't talk so loud, stammered Torn. "Them 'ere fel-
lers will hear, and though they're the biggest cowalds I
ever see, it's just as well to keep 'em in the dark. I'll
tell you how you kin find out whether I'm true grit dir
not!"
"How?" asked Howard.
" Why, jist make b'lieve you've gin in. You kin keep
your rifle, and go down to whar they be, and help me tie
'em up to a tree in the woods yonder. The blamed mean
cusses aint worth killin', no how, and I kinder don't like
to put a bullet through 'em in cold blood, but if we don't
do something, they'll dig off and have the Capt'n after
you in a twinkling."
"Do you mean what you say ?" asked Howard, not yet
convinced of the sincerity of the new convert.
"It's as true as heaven !" answered Tom, as earnestly
as his impediment would permit him to speak. "I've
been a mean, ornery cuss, I know, I've drank a heap o'
whisky, and bin in a heap o' fights, but Tom Dill won't
lie, nor steal. I'm white, I am, and if you'll help me, we
kin fix them 'ere fellows in two minutes."

I

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.

71

"I'll trust you, come on !" said Howard. "How shall
it be done?"
"Just you and Cupid follow me as if you'd gin up, and
wanted to settle terms. That'll put 'em off their guard,
and when we getalongside on 'em, you jist take one, and
leave tother to nie.
" Go on, then," said Howard, "but mind, on the first
suspicion that enters my head, that you are playing false,
I'll put the contents of this rifle into your brain."
"All right!" responded Tom, and picking up his car-
bine, he moved slowly forward towards the men. The
moment they reached the two horsemen, Tom signed to
Howard to pass quietly behind them, and then gave the
order for them to dismount.
" What for ?" asked one of them.
"None' o' your business. Git off o' them ar losses !"
replied Tom, in his impetuosity forgetting to stammer.
"That's my order, so git off !
The men did not move, but murmured something in a
low voice, upon which, without uttering a word, Tom
dropped his carbine, and motioning Cupid to seize the
horse by the bridle, lie sprang upon the neck of the beast,
with the agility of a cat, and seizing the man by the
throat with one hand, while he wrested the sword from his
grasp with the other, threw him violently to the ground.
At the same moment, Howard, drawing a pistol, and put-
ting it to the head of the other trooper, said in a firm
voice, "Take your choice, throw down your sword and
yield yourself a prisoner, or die where you sit. You
have not more than two seconds to make up your mind !"
The man turned his hedd quickly, and brought his ear
in contact with the muzzle of the pistol; then turning in


the other direction, and seeing the fate of his companion
who lay stunned upon the earth, he threw down his
sword, and turning to Howard, exclaimed:
"Don't shoot! I gin in."
"A precious pair !" muttered Howard, contemptuously.
Then in a firm tone he added : "Dismount, you cowardly
ruffian!" dismount at once!"
The man obeyed, and in a few moments the arms of
both the men were firmly pinioned behind them, and they
were led by Tom and Howard, into the woods, Cupid re-
inaining behind to take care of the horses.
After binding the two specimens of Virginia chivalry
to a tree, and securely gagging them, Howard and Tom
returned to the road.
"Well, I recon you believe I'm sound now. don't you ?"
asked Tom, after going through the customary gyrations
of body, and contortions of facial muscles, "I told you
Tom Dill wouldn't lie !"
"You are an honest fellow !" exclaimed Howard, giv-
ing him his hand, "and well out of such, bad company.
But you mentioned something just now about the return
of the Captain. Do you mean Houghton ?"
"He went by here not more'n an hour ago," said Cupid.
"I seed him from de side of de road, whar I was a look.
ing out."
" He reckoned you'd gone ahead, or he allowed ef you
hadn't, Mister Lee had," stuttered Tom, "and he left me
at the otherside of the bridge, with them ar fellers, to
keep a lookout for you and the Squire's daarter. He'll
be back afore long, I reckon. So we'd better get out of
the way, without you think it's worth while to hold on
herse and gin him a brtish.. He threatened to put a bullet

72

THE R " tJGEES -; OR,

4

OTHE UNION BOYS OF '61.

through my head this afternoon, and I wouldn't mind get-
ting first shot !"
" How many men has he with him ?" asked Howard.
"Well, nigh on to twenty, I reckon."
"Armed ?"
" Right smart on 'em !"
"With rifles ?"
"No, right smart o' swords and shot-guns-sorne car-
bines.'
"Did he promise to return?''
" Wal, no, he allowed he'd camflp other side o' Bar Run,
beyond Iluntersville, but the shot you fired. and my not
getting back, may make him think;sornethin's going on."
Howard paused a nioment in reflection, and then mut-
tered to himself, " Where can flank linger? He should
have been here before this."  Then turning to Tom Dill,
he said, "Is there any way by which we can pass round
their camp ?"
"I reckon I know a trail through the woods here,
which leads to Carrick's Ford ; by taking that, we can
cut over and come out on the Beverly Road, if we don't
meet with none o' the pickets."
We will run the risk of that. For various reasons,"
Howard continued, "I would. rather not risk an encounter
with the scoundrels to-night. So let us take these horses,
join our friends, and make for the ford with all speed.
"My horse is tother side o' the bridge," said Tom," I
reckon I'd better git him, and thar's your hoss down tha'
in the holler. Horseflesh aint to be throw'd away these
times."
"You.are right," answered Howard. " I will lead these
horses up the road. Cupid can go and secure muy horse

it
i
1
t
;}

73,


r
i
!j.
t,
i
;i
z
t
It
k !i
t!,
ta{
it
i y(}i
,0 ,
i
,
c F
f
{1!
1.
,
.
,

while you regain your own- Hasten, I will await you
return above." With this, Howard took the reins from
Cupid, and leading the horses, st rted to rejoin Mark and
the others whom he had left some Xninutes since.
He found Rose entirely restored to consciousness, an
ledning' her aching head upon the shoulder of her father
who sat by her side, pouring words of comfort into he
ear, and uttering thanks to heaven for her restoration t
him, while Mary stood b)y, her hand clasped in his, an(
his face expressing every mark of joy at finding the ob
ject of his love once more.
As soon as Mark became aware of the presence o
Howard, he gently released the loving hand he had held
andproffering his own to Howard, said, with much feel
ing, "I can never repay the debt I owe you. Be assure
that gratitude and devotion deeper than ever man felt
will dwell in my heart for ever !"
" He deserves it all," said Rose, partly rising, and als
extending her hand to the Unionist. " He has been
friend, protector, comforter, and brother to me, dea
1ark 1".
"An old man's blessing be upon you, for being the in
strunient in the hands of heaven, in the restoration of m3
child to me!" said William Morley, rising and placing hit
hand on Howard's shoulder.
"I have done no more," said Howard, modestly, "thai
any man would have done under tihe same circumstances
The pleasure I feel in seeing you so happy, amply repay
me for all. .But," lie continued, " we must remain here n(
longer. loughton and his band may surprise us at an3
moment, and, weak as we are, it would scarce be pruden
to risk' a meeting with the traitorous scoundreL' It wil

9' 4

THE REFUGEES ; OR,

74

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.             75
be useless now to attempt to reach the house of Brice, and
as we have a new recruit in the person of a deserter from
Houghton's troop, who knows a by-road to Carrick's Ford,
we had better mount at once and start. The distance is
not great, and if we usedispatch, we may reach thd Fed-
eral lines ere sunrise."
r     "I fear that Rose-" Mark began.
"Fear not for me. I am quite strong again," inter-
rupted the fair girl, rising, and endeavoring to throw
off the air of fatigue, which was too plainly visible.
"I will not be a burden or a hindrance to you. I am
quite refreshed, and shall be able to keep up with the best
of you."
"Then let us mount at once," said Mark, and to-morrow
a long rest will compensate for all the dangers you have
undergone, for all the fatigues you have endured."
By this time Torn and Cupid had reached the party,
o- and after assisting Rose to mount, Mark was about to be-
a.stride one of the horses of the captured troopers, the
r   other having been already appropriated by William Mor-
ley, when Cupid, who was not provided for, and who had
gone higher up the hill, came rushing towards them, ex-
y   claiming:
''"Hi, hi! Mass'r Lee! Here dey comes! Here comes
de rebels. Dey's a running like de very debbil, and I
n   reckon dat he's after 'em; if it aint him, it must be Gen'1
McClellan !"
SAt the same moment, the sound of horses dashing over
o-the bridge, came from the right, and Carlton Howar d,
turning quickly, perceived, by the light of the moon, some
ttwenty horsemen approaching at a rapid gallop.
l  " Thankheaven, it is Hank at last !"' heecliedn

'I


ll
t
i
I1
'!

THE REFUGEES; OR,

leaping into his saddle, lhe said quickly, " We are pre-
pared for then uow. Mr. Morley, you had better take
your daughter under your protection ; we shall have warm
work here in a moment."
To the hollow !" said Mark Lee. " Quick !" confiding
Rose to the arms of her father. "Away, there is no time
for words. Bless you, Rose! If we do not meet again
remember I shall die in a good cause."
",God bless you, Mark !" Rose ejaculated in a trembling
voice. " Do your duty, and leave me to the care bf hea-
ven !"
" Away at once !" urged Howard, for by this time Hank
and his party were within a few yards of them. " We
shall make short work of it, I iope! To horse! Mark
Lee, to horse !"
Thus urged, Rose and. her father once more sought the
shelter of the wood, and Mark. mounting his horse rode
to the side of Howard.
In a moment the foremost of the approaching party
rode up.'
"Who goes there ?" exclaimed Howard.
" Who wants to know ?" asked a tall man, dressed in
deer skin, and carrying a long rifle on his arm, and who
was evidently the leader of the pai'ty. "Is that you,
Cap'n Howard ?"
"Yes," answered Howard, " and you are Hank Red.
fuld !"
"That's me, sartain !" he cried, riding up to Howard,
and calling upon his men to halt.
"You are later than I expected," said Howard, quickly,
"but there' is no time for explanation now. Houghton
and his party are approaching from the Beverly road,?

pursued, as I hear, by the Unionists. We must give hin
a warm reception !"
No words can express the delight with which Hank and
his hardy men received this intelligence, and in a few mo-
ments Howard had placed the forces at his command, in
position to receive the advancing foe, who were rapidly
coming on, little dreaming of the preparations going on
in their behalf.
" When I give the word, charge !" said Howard, in a
low voice, as he turned to see that each man was ready.
They had not long to wait, for even as lie spoke, the
foremost of the rebels caine into sight over the brow of
the hill. The clank of their horses' hoofs was plainly
discernable, and ioughton's voice was heard urging on
his men, while in the far distance could be heard the
shouts of their pursuers and the roll of drums.
With beating hearts and firm lips the -little party of
Unionists waited their appearance until they were scairce-
ly twenty yards off, when Howard gave the word to
charge, at the same time dashing forward, accompanied
by Mark Lee.
On they went, that small but compact and unflinching
band, and in a moment the melee commenced.
The assault was terrific. Both parties fired simulta-
neously, and several of Hough ton's party fell from their
saddles. Shrieks, oaths, and groans filled the air, but
loud above the din sounded the voice of Mark Lee.
Down with them!1" lie cried. " Union and victory!"
As he uttered these words, Miles Houghton recognized
him, and springmig for ward, seized him by the throat with
his left hand, while with his right lie drew a long bowie
knife, and raising it high above his head, exclaimed :

THE UNION BOYS OF 61,

77

76


THE REFUGEES ; OR,

" Ha! ha !" Mark Lee, we meet at last. You shall no
escape me now
With the grasp of a giant Mark seized his uplifted arm,
and endeavored to wrest the knife from his grasp, but
Hioughton still kept his fingers' tightly clasped to the
throat of his victim, and Mark began to feel his strength
giving way, when he saw a dark object descend q'ckIy
before his eyes, and in an instant the hold of Hou htou
relaxed, and Mark was free.
"Golly! I fixed him dat time !" exclaimed Cupid, who,
armed with a heavy club, was laying about him like a
fiend. "I reckon dat ar arm won't be much use for
awhile, anyhow. Give it to him, Mass'r !"
This was addressed to Mark Lee, who, the moment he
was free, rushed upon his antagonist, but Houghton, find-
ing'himself disabled, did not wait for his near approach,
but turned and fled, calling out to his men to follow him.
A Babel-like confusion, followed. The rebels, such o
them as were not shot down, or otherwise put hors de
combat, fled in all directions, when Houghton, finding him
self left alone, once more turned, and called, "Shame, yo
infernal cowards! What! do you desert me now? B
God, I will not go until I pay some part' of the debt
owe 1" and dashing forward with desperation, he made ft
Mark Lee.
As he did so, Mark slowly raised the pistol which hb
carried in his hand, and fired. With a loud yell, th
rebel bounded from his saddle, and the next moment fe
to the earth a corpse.
"Bravely done !" exclaimed Howard. That shot di
good service. It has rid the country of one of the blac1
est hearted villains and traitors that ever cursed it. Noi

THE UNION BOYS OF '61.            79
to the woods, brave boys, and cut off the retreat of these
flying cowards. Look to Rose and her father," he said to
Mark, "and follow on."
Mark did not hesitate a moment, but instantly dis-
mounting, and giving his horse in charge of Cupid, made
for the friendly dell, in which Rose and her father had
taken shelter, and in a few moments the two lovers were
locked in each other's arms.
To place the young girl and her father upon a couple
of the horses which had been taken by the Unionists, was
the work of a moment, and the whole party started in the
direction of Huntersville. Just as they reached the vil-
lage. they were met by Morris Brice, who had been on the
lookout, and Rose and her father, now quite exhausted by
the excitement and fatigue of the past three days, were
left in the charge of his family, while Mark Lee, Howard,
and Hank, and his brave men, with the exception of one
who had fallen in the late skirmish, and two who had
been wounded, proceeded to meet the advancing Unionists
who, Brice informed them, wcre rapidly approaching by
way of the Beverly road, over Laurel Hill.
There had been a brilliant skirmish at Buchanan, the
day before, in which a party of rebels had been defeated
and scattered, and Gen. McClellan had immediately ad-
vanced with his whole force to dislodge the rebel force at
Laurel Hill.
The events of the next three days are matters of his-
tory. The brilliant battle of Rich Mountain, the defeat
of the rebels at St. George, and the subsequent occupa-
tion of Beverly by the brave McClellan and his victorious
forces, are among the most brilliant of all the achieve-
meats which marked the campaign in Western Virginia.

II
iii{

VIII
h


80               THE REFUGEES ; OR,
In all these victories Mark Lee and Carlton Howard
took part, and were distinguished as the bravest among
the brave. At the end of the campaign, and after Wes-
tern Virginia had been freed from the presence of the
traitor troops by the Union forces, both Mark Lee and
howard were chosen to represent the Loyalists of the
State in the Convention at Wheeling, from which Mark
returned covered with honors to claim his young bride.
On the death of Miles Houghton, his father disappeared
from the country, and the estate being declared confis-
cated, was purchased by Win. Morley, where he now re-
sides temporarily, until the mansion at the Elms shall be
rebuilt.
Shortly after his marriage, Mark Lee and howard
were appointed Colonels in the Union army, and are now
battling for the Constitution and the laws, under the glo-
rious old flag.
Cupid still lives, and is known among the Union boys
as the bravest among all the " contrabands" in camp, and
it is the boast of Colonel Lee that he has the ugliest and
best servant in the army.
Hank, the hunter, is captain of a company of sharp
shooters, raised by himself among the mountains, and to
him and his brave woodsmen " many a good tall fellow"
in the rebel ranks, is indebted for his quietus.
Those who desire to follow his fortunes, and become ac-
quainted with his various adventures and achievements,
will have an opportunity of doing so, as they are detailed
at length, in the forthcoming Tale, entitled :
HANK, THE HUNTER;
OR, THE RIFLEMEN OF KANAWHA.

/             4


  
             
         
       
   
