
    ----CITATION----
        Lasselle, N. P.. Annie Grayson, or, Life in Washington .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7045
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Annie Grayson, or, Life in Washington 
            
               ANNIE GRAYS0N; OR, LIFE IN WASHNGTON.  BY MRS. N. P. LASSELLE. NEW YORK: BUNCE & BROTHER, PUBLISHERS, 134 NASSA  STBIET   ENTERED, according to Act of Congrcss, fn the Year One Thousand Eight Hun- dred and Fifty-three, oy H. LASSELLE, in the Office of the Clerk of the District Court of the United States, for the District of Columbia.   TO  A LADY EMENT FOR PURITY, INTELLIGENCE, AND BEVER VIRTUE THAT ]LIVATBI AND BEAUTIFIE THE FEMALE OEABdCTAEL, THS BOOK  IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY THE AUTHOR.     PREFACE. When we commenced putting together the incidents  narrated in the following pages, we did not dream of mar  king a look. The-scenes portrayed, are not fancy sketches, butpictar  drawn from life; the truthfulness of which, persons, fa - miliar with Washington Society, will at once recognze. In portraying them, we have endeavored to impress upon the young mind, the danger of giving the heart up to a  love of pleasure and'outward display. And if the perusal of this book, shall lead any to a true appreciation of, anI the practice of early piety, it will have accomplisd object for which it was written.     CONTENTS. CHAPTER I.          PAOu Distribution of Premiumsa. ^ .. m.. m .- ... w .,*.......aa.. 5 CHAPTER- II. The Three Friends M ... 'a* .  M M M M ..... ...M... a....... ., 15 ' C HAPTER III. The Birth-Night Party .............:.. ................... 23 CHAPTE R IV. The Warning M.....-..       , -.-MM....... 33 -     CHAPTER V. The Sleighing Party ......................  ..... 42 CHAPTERW VI. A Visit of Charity ..... .......- ,.^... ,     5 CHAPTER VII. Maneuvering of a Washington Belle .... ..... ......... . 61 CHAPTER VIII. A Home-Scene .. ........ .... ..-....... .-..... ... -68 CHAPTER IX, A New Character . ............. ............... , " CHAPTER X. Life's Changes .............. .............................. 86 CHAPTER XI. Blighted Hopes .. ..        .   ....... ... 94 CHAPTER XII. The Heart's Struggle ,10-.....................,,,,- 103 CHAPTER XIII. The Spirit's Release    ..... ..    .... 112 CHAPTER XIV. Trials of the Poor ...................T ' ....... 121 CHAPTER XV.       , Jenny's Description of City LifeM. ,a M ..  ------------- 131 CH APTER XVI. Frederick meets a Friend of his Childhood . ..... ....a......M 141 CHAPTER XVIL   .   A Dinner-Party          '  ' .......... ........................ 151   viii       CONTENTS. CHAPTER xiVI.     PAOE. The Broken Engagement. ....-----................... 158 CHAPTER XIX. The Levee -. -  ........ --. .  .----------- ----. 1-B CHAPTER XX. The Rejected Proposal .- ....,- -   176 CHAPTER XXI. A Visit to the Springs----------.    184 CHAPTER XXII. Life in the West ....93 -CHAPTER X fX (. The Pic-Nic              203 CHAPTEJR XXIV The Declaration ................    212 CHAPTER xY. An Election Day in Illinois* ..- -...... . 220 CHAPTER XXV'I. Visit to the South C. H E: ..I--.---.-- 30 CHAPTER XXVIU. The Sustaining Power of True Piety . ....... 238 CHAPTER XXi VIi. The Will- ". ............ . :;. .:; . .- . *- . . 46 CH1APTER XXTX. Frederick Leroux at Home - i.--..;- ..... .... 54 CHAPTER XXX. Life in the South ..............-.. W M - . 263 CHAPTER XXXT. A Fashionable Watering Place - .-..........-.....,..-.. 271 CHAPTERX xx IL.  Life's Contrasts.           2" CHAPTER XXXIII. The Banker .-.         --------- " 287 CHAPTER tXI V  National Honor and National Justice . . ..  . .. 297 CHAPTER X XV. A New Will Discovered ----- - ---  . 306 CHAPTER XXXVI . The Fruit of Vice is Bitterness ' . .... ..... ... 316 CFTHAPTER XXX V1. Virtue Rewarded ...... -.... ,.-... ...I... . .............- 327 - o CCHAPTER XX)V 111. Conclusion           ' -a-- '- - " -a 0' :"!*,-..." ' " oIn- M 335 mmm mmm   '     335'   ANNIE GRAYSON: "FE IN WASHNGTO                N. CHAPTER L DISTRIBUTION OP PREMUMS. ' ANGELIC! beautiful! surpassingly beautiful!" was the ex clamation that fell from mapy lips And it was indeed a tableau of rare beauty that called forth these exclamations. The room, in which the distribution of premiums to the pupils of the Academy of Visitation, in Georgetown, annually takes place, was filled to overflowing with visitors, pupils and teachers. The President and his lady were among the dis- tinguished visitors present. Several young ladies had received premiums from the hands of the President, when upon his calling the name of ANNIE. GRAYSON, a fairy child of about five summers presented herself and threw herself at his feet in a position of such infantile grace, which, united with her surpass- ' ing beauty, caused the above named exclamation to drop involuntarily from the lips of every beholder. She was dressed in a slip of pure white muslin, the loose sleeves looped up with ornaments of pearl, exposing an arm and hand so exquisitely formed, that even the refined and fastidious taste of a Powers might be content with them as a model. Her soft silken hair hung in ringlets, falling upon, without concealing, a neck and shoulders white as Parian   6          ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, marble, and formed in nature's perfect mould. As she sank gracefully on one knee, clasped her tiny hands across her breast, and inclined her head slightly forward, methought I had never looked on aught on earth so beautiful. And when the President took, from the stand upon which the premiums were deposited, a wreath of 'pure white roses, and placed them on her fair young brow saying: "This is awarded to Annie Grayson for her extraordinary attainments in vocal music," I could almost fancy the wreath of flowers a halo of glory, typical of the purity and innocence of the fair being, whose brow it encircled.   When she rose from her kneeling position, she stepped back a few praes, and raising her eyes towards Heaven, she sang, in a voice that vibrated on the ear, soft and sweet as wind-harps, when breath- ed on by Eolus' gentlest breath, the following song, which had been composed and arranged to music, expressly for her, by one of the sisters: Our Father, I thank thee, Because thou hast given, To me, thy own creature,  A gift meet for Heaven. Permit Saint Cecilia My patron to be, Like her I would yield, Perfect homage to thee. Let sin never sully This young heart of mine; ?f         Impress on its tablet, Thy precepts divine. My heart's adoration I'll pour forth in song, Until thou shalt call me, To join that bright throng Of angels who ever, Are found near thy throne;  Singing strains of sweet music, To mortals unknown. Even now, my rapt vision, Beholds the bright band;  And I hear the soft music, Of that blessed land.   "FE IN WASHNGTON.          7 Whilst singing, she seemed forgetful of the crowd around her. She seemed as if she were in the actual presence of God, and the gushing melody which flowed from her lips, filling the room, and thrilling every heart with rapture, was of such unearthly beauty, that, I was ready to believe, angel minstrels had, by some mysterious communication with her spirit, taught her these tones so seemingly soft and low, yet distinctly heard, to the most distant corner of the room., Often, long years after this event, would the memory of this scene wake an echo in my heart like a strain of sweet music. However, it is not of myself I would speak, but let us follow the fortunes of this fair child. She was the only child of wealthy parents. Her mother was a gay woman of fashion whose greatest ambition was, to create a sensation in society, by the elegance of her dress, the splendor of her parties, and the dashing style of her equipage. Her fa- ther was a man of superior intellect, and sober common sense views of life. He had been so entirely captivated by the rare personal beauty of her mother, that, he did not discover her only enjoyment was derived from gay society, until she had be- come his wife. She was endowed by natuire with a fine mind, and had she received proper training, and moral culture when young, she would have become something infinitely superior to a brilliant woman of society. But the praises of injudicious friends, and the gratification of every wish, fostered a spirit of vanity and self-indulgence, which took such possession of her bosom, that the better feelings of her nature were almost destroyed. She married George Grayson, because he was the most distinguished gentleman of her acquaint- ance, not because she appreciated those noble qualities which he possessed, and which were calculated to inspire, with the deep- est and purest love, the heart of a noble-souled woman. When the gayety, which succeeded the marriage of the talented law. yer, and the admired belle, had somewhat subsided, and they were permitted to spend one evening in the quiet of their own drawing-room, uninterrupted by visitors, Judge Grayson, for he had even then been appointed to that responsible office, laid his ,         -     8.        ANNIE GRAYSON;. OR, hand caressingly on the glossy curls of his fair young wife, sying--                       . "Now, darling Annie, I trust we may be permitted the quiet enjoyment of each other's society, and taste the joys of do- mestic life. 'I have lived a bachelor so long, that my heart yearns the more earnestly for the pure happiness, which is only found at the domestic hearth." '; Why, Charles," said the spoiled beauty, c" you don't suppose I am going to settle down into an old woman, at once, because I married a man ten years older than myself." "Certainly not, my love; but after so much gayety, the quiet of home is necessary for the restoration of both the men. tal and physical faculties to a healthful tone; such constant and unnatural excitement is injurious to both mind and body." "Domestic happiness! quiet of home! Why, my dear, these are old phrases-obsolete in this age of progress and refine- ment. As for me, I think life scarcely worth possessing were it not for the pleasures of society." Judge Grayson made no reply, but mentally exclaimed,- "Ah, I fear I have made a mistake, and my bright dreams of domestic bliss will not be realized." Ere six months had passed away he was convinced that it was too true, that the only enjoyment of his wife was derived fromn societye- When he fully understood her character, instead of remonstrating with her on the weakness and folly of- her opinions and pursuits, he resolved, like a sensible man as he was, to place at her disposal the means of gratifying all her wishes and tastes, whilst he turned his attention to politics, de- termined to find in gratified ambition a solace for the disap- pointments of his anticipations of conjugal felicity. His success in obtaining political honors exceeded his most sanguine expec- tations; and at the time we present his daughter, to our readers, he was an honored representative in congress, and so faithfully did he perform his duty, that, after the expiration of a second term of his service as congressman, the legislature of his native state elected him to the United States Senate. When Mrs. Grayson became a mother, her husband fondly A   "FI? INR./WSINGTON.          9 hoped it would effect - change in her character, but in this he was isappointed. It seemed that flattery and love of display, had deadened in her bosom'that holiest and purest emotion of woman's heart, maternal love. True, when little Annie was about four years old, and was remarkable for beauty and intel- ligence, the mother's vanity was gratified, and she then had her beautifilly dressed and presented to the distinguished visitors who were attracted to the house by the elegance of her enter- tainments and the distinguished position occupied by her hus- band. 'The expressions of admiration which the beauty of the child called forth, was music to her ears, but not so to the father: he feared it might have a hurtful influence upon the heart of his child; and to avoid this danger, he resolved to have her educated at the Academy of Visitation, in Georgetown. She had been about six months at this institution at the time, of which I speak, and the character of the instruction she there received, may be inferred from the song that was sung by her on the day of the distribution of premiums. Her extraordinary personal beauty and mental endowments was such that her teachers, with every precaution, could not prevent such remarks as the following from meeting her ear, "She is beautiful as a picture!" "She sings like an angel!" "She is the most gifted child I ever saw t" The pious Sisters, to prevent feelings of pride and vanity rom arising in her heart, taught her to feel grateful to her Heavenly Father for the gifts He had lavished on her. She was the idol of her father's heart, and her presence was like a sunbeam in the household, yet he kept her most of the time with the Sisters, that' their teaching and example might be i  so deeply impressed upon her mind, that no intercourse with the heartless and gay could efface it. When she was about ten years of age, her father purchased an elegant mansion in Wash ington, over which his beautiful wife presided with grace and. dignity. They generally remained in the city nine months )ut of twelve, and Annie usually spent three months at home during the year. At these times she frequently annoyed her high-bred /             10        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, mother very much by what the mother termed her ignorance of propriety and a want of self-appreciation. One day she was telling a lady friend, in Annie's presence, of her strange tastes. "Why," said she, " would you believe it, the child would just as soon take for a friend the daughter of some poor, obscure individual, as the daughter of the President? She is never better pleased than when spending a day with my washer. woman." "I would not tolerate such low associations," replied Mrs. Parkinson. "Mrs. Stanmore is refined and lady-like in manner; and although she is under the necessity of laboring with her hands to support her family, there is nothing common or low in her. mind or manners. Annie seems so fond of her, that I cannot refuse her the pleasure of spending a day with her occasionally; yet still, I would be pleased if her taste was different.?" "But, mamma," said Annie, putting her arm around her mo- ther's neck, "you know Ella Starmore is such a sweet little girl I cannot help loving her dearly, and Edwin is so kind--he tells us stories, and makes us boats, and hauls us on his wagon, and then, when we are tired of playing, he teaches Ella her lesson. I wish I had a brother like Edwin. And then Mrs. Stanmore prepares us such nice dinners! When it is ready, we all sit at table so nicely: Mrs. Stanmore sits at the head of the table, Edwin at the foot, Ella at one side, and I at the other. Oh, I think poor people are so happy! they have no servants to vex them and make them scold like rich people do." "Don't you think Mrs. Stanmore would be happier if she were rich enough to send 'Ella and Edwin to school Every mother is anxious for the education of her children." "Oh, no, mamma, she wouldn't send them to school; she teaches them herself; and she says it is so much pleasure to hear them say their lessons. Edwin never went to school a day in his life, and he reads French beautifully, and he is ju4t commencing Spanish." "And does his mother teach him?" asked Mrs. Parkinson. "Certainly," replied Annie.   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         " "But how does she find time?" "Oh, she teaches them of evenings when the day's work is done." "It seems to me," said she, addressing Mrs. Grayson, "you have a very accomplished washerwoman-one who is capable of teaching her children Spanish and French." "Why, Mrs. Stanmore was, at the time of her marriage, very wealthy, but her husband was extravagant, and fond of high living. He-became intemperate, and, in time, dissipated all his property. He was an old friend of Judge Grayson, who used his influence, and procured him a situation in one of the departments with a salary barely' sufficient to support his family. When he had been in office about six months he died, leaving his wife and two small children here in a strange city, without any means of support. She had barely money enough to defray the funeral expenses. The day after the funeral, my husband called upon her, and offered to transact any business for her, telling her if she needed any money, just to draw on him. She thanked him for his kindness, and said she would accept of his offer to arrange her business, but as to 'accepting money, that she could not do. "'You know, Judge,' said she, 'I belong to one of the proudest families of our State, I can work for my children, but cannot receive charity. If your wife will give me employment, I can support my family. That will be a favor, for it will prevent me from being obliged to seek work, which I otherwise would have to do.' "In a few days, she disposed of her furniture, moved into a small house, and entered upon her hard task. When she called upon me a few days after for work, I gave her some sewing, she took it, and told me, if I put my muslins, laces, &c., out of the house to have them washed, she would like to do it for me, as it was more profitable than sewing. Thus- she, who was reared in luxury, became my washerwoman. "There are many strange histories in the city of Washington, could we have them all revealed to us. "The way Annie became so much attached to her was this:   12        ANNJIE QRAY$ON; OR, about a year after the death of her husband, Annie had a severe attack of illness, her life was despaired of, and I believe we were more indebted to- the kind and careful nursing of Mrs. Stanmore for its preservation, than to the physician. She lay several days unconscious of existence. During that time, Mrs. Stanmore never left her, and when .a change for the better took place, she recovered very slowly, and Mrs. Stanmore remained with her, soothing her when restless with fever and weakness, by some strain of music, or an interesting story. Since that time, Annie has been devoted to her, and as she is refined and amiable, I permit the child to visit her frequently." "Well, were she my daughter, I would not let her visit them," "Why not?" "Impressions might be made that you will, when it is too late, regret." "do not fear that." "Well, I am really glad I never had any children, for I should always be in an agony about them, for fear they would form as- sociations unworthy of themselves." But I suppose our readers would like th know who Mrs. Parkinson is. Well, she is the wife of a gentleman of wealth, who has his country seat, and town house. She is now one of the leaders of ton, but she did not always occupy this position. She lad previous to her marriage been a servant. Her beauty cap- tivated a rich old widower, who made her his wife, but his friends refused to recognize her as an equal. This mortified her pride; she was ambitious as well as beautiful, and she de- termined to leave no m'eans untried to gain an entrance into a circle above the former friends of her husband. She was shrewd and keen-sighted, and she had, in the situation of ser- vant, studied human nature thoroughly. She knew that wealth, with perseverance and well timed flattery, would in time open the doors of the most aristocratic. She went to work determined to succeed, and she did succeed. We see her on terms of intimacy with Mrs. Grayson, one of the most aristocratic ladies of the Union. To be invited to her   IFhIo s WDSotT  N      . y  I house is a passport tO the most exclusive society. Mrs. Park- inson is introduced to the most distinguished persons of the na tion. Her triumph is complete. Senators, Congressmen, and distinguished strangers, partake of, her elegant dinners, and praise her husband's superior wines. She prUside with 4a much elegance as if she had always occupied -this Kiti'n, bt she is in constant fear that some of her new-made fends may know something of her former history.     o Though so amiable and gentle in society, to her dependents and those who work for her she is imperious and tyrannical. And whilst she would expend hundreds to pamper the appetites of fashionable visitors, it was with the greatest reluctance she paid what was justly due to those who labored for her, and she is a true representative of hundreds of this class, as many a poor washerwoman and seamstress can testify. When Mrs, Parkinson had left, Annie said: "Mamma, I don't like Mrs. Parkinson." "Why, child?" "' I do not think she has a good heart." "I am sure she has always treated you kindly." "Yes, but--" "But what 2" "I do not believe she would be so kind, if I were poor and needed her kindness."  "What put that notion in your head ." "I do not know, mamma; it just came of itself." "You are a queer child; I like Mrs. Parkinson very much." "Yes, and she likes you, but it is because you live in a fine house, and give parties."  "Now, you are judging uncharitably; you should not do so, it is wicked." "I am sorry, 'mamma, but I cannot help my thoughts." "Then you should not speak them.": "Only to you, mamma." "Not even to me." "Well, I will not do so any more; but, indeed, I do not think Mrs. Parkinson has a good heart."   "        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, The truthful heart of the child had rightly divined the cha. racter of the visitor. It was true, she only loved Mrs. Grayson because she was distinguished and fashionable. And that there is-much such love as this in fashionable life, all who observe society can plainly perceive; and in no city is it more apparent than Washington, as we shall have many instances ere we con- clude our story. .   "FE IN WASTT1TON.          165- CHAPTflut H. THE THREE FRIENDS. "On! sister, sister, see what lovely flowers Imogen Dela. croix has brought us," was the exclamation of little Lucy Catron, as Imogen entered, bearing in her hand-a basket filled with Flora's loveliest children. "Sister Angelique," said Imogen coaxingly, placing the flowers on the table, and putting her arm around the neck of the nun, and imprinting a kiss upon her fair, calm brow, "do let me decorate the altar of our dear little chapel this morning, that's a dear, good sister." "Why not let Sister Marguerite attend to it as usual." "Because I want to arrange the flowersmyself. See, here I have brought the blush rose, which represents Annie Grayson, so modest, yet so queenly, and a bunch of oak leaves, which is typical of Emma Carlton, and the white lily, which is the em. blem of our lovely, pure-minded Ella Stanmore. Sister, do let me help Sister Marguerite, and I'll pray for you, every evening for a month." "Well, well, child, go along, and have your way, for you will never cease coaxing till you do." As soon as permission was given, she bounded gracefully from the room, and as Sister Angelique gazed upon her re- treating form, she ejaculated, "Bright, joyous,happy creature, may thy heart never be less gay than now." The decoration of the chapel is completed, Imogen surveys it with a satisfied look, and turningto Sister Marguerite, says:   s  16        A:NNIre GRNAyIONX; GO , "This is to me a sacred spot, it always disposes my mind to j  calm and holy thoughts." X    It is a bright, quiet Sabbath morn, and as the gentle breath of summer swept over the altar, playing with the fresh flowers, then floating through the chapel and filling it with fragrance, it did truly seem one of earth's calmest, holiest, fairest spots. And the gentle footfall of the pious sisters, as they moved from place to place putting a finishing touch to its arrangements, reminded one of ministering angels, whose mission on earth, is to do good to suffering mortals; and indeed it is the vocation of these .devoted females, to perform deeds of kindness and charity. But, why is the chapel decorated with such unusual care this i morning? Ah, the sacrament of baptism is to be administered. Three I of the pupils have become converts, and after the sacrifice of the holy mass, they are to be baptized, and that is the reason why Imogen Delacroix, who is a perfect little devotee, is kissing so rapturously the three dearest friends of her heart, ANNIEm GRAYSON, EMMA CARLTON, and ELLA STANMORE. But, exclaims the reader, how came Ella Stanrnore, whose mother is a washerwoman, to be a pupil at the Academy of   Visitation? The daughters of Senators, Congressmen, Commo- dores, Generals, and the most distinguished persons in the nation, are educated at this institution, and it takes money to   enable one to get an education hare.    LL Stop- a moment, and we. will tell you. One evening about two years previous to the time of which we are speaking, when the labors of the day were done, and Mrs. Stanmore was seated in her small and humbly furnished room, giving the usual evening instruction to her heart's only treasures, Edwin and Ella, a rap was heard at the door. Mrs. Stanmore rose and opened it, when a tall, foreign looking gentleman entered. He bowed to her, saying, "My name is Belmont, I believe I address Mrs. Stanmore." I  "You do," replied the lady, "Will you be seated" oonti- 1  nued she, offering him a chair.   "FE IN WASflrOTON.          17 He .took the proffered seat, and regarding her a moment, he Slaid, "You have forgotten Ine, I believe." "I do n6t remember having ever seen you," replied she, "I knew a family of that name in Ohio, but- you bear no resem- blance to them." "Don't you remember Charles Belmont, who worked for e   your husband, on his farm as a day laborer four years, and then took charge of, I might almost say, the fleet of flat boats that carried the surplus products-of his farm, with that of the whole settlement, to New Orleans -the only market, which, at that time, was accessible to the farmers of the fertile valleys of the West." "I remember him perfectly."  "I am he." "Is it possible," said she, advancing, and grasping his hand cordially, "that the dark-broted, foreign looking gentleman before me, is my favorite and noble-souled, Charlie?" "If you doubt it, I can give you some more of his history, that will prove his identity. You remember when I returned from New Orleans, having made, what was called an unusually good trip, that is, sold my pork and corn high, and brought home a large amount of money, and your husband gave me a thousand dollars, saying, I had too much enterprise and busi- ness tact, to remain a mere laborer, that, I should take this, and engage in business for myself, and when. I offered to give him my note promising to repay it when I should be successful in business, he replied; 'No; no- Charleyj when you are success- ful, which you surely will be, if I, or mine should need it, you can repay it, and should we never need it, which I trust we never shall, you will give it to some industrious worthy young man like yourself.' I have succeeded beyond my wildest dreams, and to you, Mrs. Stanmore, I am indebted for all I have, and all I am. It was the kind instruction given by you, during the long winter evenings, to the ignorant but knowledgecraving farm boy, that enabled me to transact business so successfully for Mr. Stanmore, and was the means of giving-me a start in! the world,   18        ANi 1k GRAYSON; OR, "When I left Ohio, I went to New Orleans; I remained there about two years, and made money. At the end of that time, I was induced by a Spaniard, with whom I had become acquainted, to go to South America and engage in the mercantile business. "I went to Rio Janeiro, and since that time, nothing but good fortune has attended me.' Every venture in which I en- gaged brought me gold. For a time, my extraordinary success made me forgetful of every thing, save the acquisition of wealth. At length, I had more than enough to satisfy the desires of the most grasping mind. I had merchant vessels upon the seas, and warehouses upon the wharves, filled with the merchandise and products of every land. I was a welcome and honored    % guest in the halls of the high-born and wealthy. Bright eyes ? looked on me approvingly, and sweet strains of music warbled by lovely lips fell on my ear. But, now, a yearning to look again on la Belle Riviere, as the early French settlers poetically named the Ohio, rose in my heart. The memory of the humble cabin home that sheltered my early years, came over me, and my mother's low and gentle voice, indicative of suffering and patience, was again murmuring in my ear. Then came the remembrance of your kind teaching of the lowly, ignorant, not i orphan-'but worse than orphan boy, for my father had been degraded by the use of rum, until his presence, which should have shed joy and gladness on our humble home, brought only dread and fear. Day after day, the desire to visit my child. hood's home grew upon me, although but few pleasant associa- tions were connected with it, save those years spent beneath your roof.  Did the wealthy and educated know what an in- fluencee kind words and encouragement from them exercise upon the lowly, they would not be so rarely given. When I determined to revisit my native land, I soon made arrange- ments to leave my business in the care of trusty agents, and sailed for New Orleans. After remaining a few days in the city, I proceeded to Cincinnati. From there, I went in a car. riage, which I had purchased for that purpose, to my boyhood's home. When I arrived there, I found, of those whom I loved, but my mother, one brother and a sister. Some had been re.   "FE IN WASHtNGTON.         19 moved by death. Others had sought new homes. My father nad been dead many years, and my brother occupied the old home. It was much improved, but still humble. My mother looked happier than I had ever known her. Her joy at seeing me was unbounded, and you may imagine, but cannot know, the joy and pride I felt at being able to render her independent and happy in her old age. My first inquiry, after seeing my relatives, was for you. They told me you had removed to this city.  I now, had no lack of friends who vied with each other in paying attention to the rich South American, as I was called. I re- mained only long enough to purchase a comfortable home for my mother, see her settled in it, and have my sister placed in a school where she would be well educated.  I then came im- mediately to this city. I arrived here this afternoon, and after I had partaken of some refreshment, I called on Judge Grayson to ascertain your residence. From him I learned death had, also, visited your household. Without returning to the hotel, I hastened to find you, and happy will I be, indeed, if I can in any way serve you. And I think it is now time I should repay you the money which was the foundation of my prosperity." "Yes, Charles, you may repay it, for our circumstances are sadly changed since I saw you: we are now poor, and labor for our support, but I have not murmured."  "You are poor no longer; I will to-morrow deposit ten thou- sand dollars in bank to your credit, and then my debt to you will not be half repaid." ("Oh, mother, won't that be grand!" exclaimed Edwin; "now Ella can be sent to the Academy of Visitation, and be brought nto social intercourse with that society, which is her birth- ight."  L Yes, my fine boy; and you shall go to school too." "Oh, I   do not wish to go to school. My mother has in. tructed me, and I  am more advanced than boys of my age (ho go to school. Besides, I am now learning to be a printer i  the office of the National Intelligencer, where I have oppor. mities of acquiring practical knowledge more useful to me ian College lore."   ANNIE (AStOAYSN; OR, { Spoken like ak man   You will be a congre'ssman some day." That is just what I intend to me." Mr. Belmonte remained till a late hour conversing with Mrs. Stinmore, and she perceived his naturally fine mind had been lpolished and improved by intercourse with the world, so that he was now a very superior man, fitted to grace the most defined society. When he left, Mrs. Stanmore felt happier than she had done since the death of her husband. He deposited the money in bank the next day as he said he' would; and thus it *as Ella Stanmore became a pupil at the Academy of Visitation. But we have' made a long digression, arid it is time *6 should return to the quiet precinct of the convent. The chapel is filled to overflowing: the priest has just finished. the; sacrifice of the mass; whetn three maidens, clothed in white, with white veils thrown over them, advance and kneel beside the sanctuary. Thiey bow their heads as if in prayer. A few notes from the organ steal upon the ear, the n it ceases, and a gush of music, from the lips of the maidens, fills the chapel. The music is thrillingly beautiful, and the following words are distinctly heard as their voices blend together in melody: Our Lady most blessed, Shed on us a ray Of thy own pure devotion, And teach us the way To keep our spirits Unspotted and pure From every vain fancy Which young hearts allure. Our Lady mdst blessed, Before thee we bow, Give us grace, Holy Mother, To keep oAt vow; To renounce every folly That dazzles to win Thd hlearts of poor mortais To error and sin.   E    LIFE IN WASHTNGTON.          21 Our Lady most blessed, Deep grief hast thou known, O'er our pathway, should sorrow And trials be thrown,- Should the bright hopes of youth Fade like dew-drops away In life's darkest hours, Be near us, we pray. Our Lady most blessed, In that trying hour, When death o'er us all Doth assert his dread power, We pray thee be near us- Receive our last sigh, Then bear us triumphant To mansions on high. When the singing ceased, there was a perfect stillness for at least a minute. All present seemed to be under the influence of holy feelings. Even the heart of Mrs. Grayson, the gay woman of fashion, seemed touched by this beautiful dedication of her child; and Mr. Grayson, the self-possessed, strong-minded states- man and philosopher, was almost overcome with emotion. He trembled like an aspen, whilst tears, which he could not repress, flowed down his cheek. It was indeed a touchingly beautiful sight to see these lovely maidens, just bursting into womanhood, dedicating themselves to the service of God. When the beautiful and significant sacrament of baptism, as administered in the Catholic church, was concluded, and the maidens retired, they were met at the door by Imogen Delacroix, who threw her arms around them, and kisseda each rapturously, saying: "Oh, you are all so pure, so good, sorrow surely will never come near you; and as for our sweet, gentle-hearted Ella, she looks as if she were never meant for earth, but was an angel sent among us by mistake." "Nay, nay, dear Imogen, you would not say so could you look into my heart and see all its weaknesses and faults. And as for sorrow, that is the destiny of every creature who dwells on earth, but I thank my Heavenly Father that He has taught me where to look for support in the hour of sorrow."   22        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, Conversing thus, they retired to their room. Was Imogen a true prophet? Was life to them unclouded by sorrow? Ah! no; over the life of each, did a dark wave of sorrow roll. As the serpent found his way even -in the garden of Eden to bring sorrow and sin to that abode of purity and innocence, so did an evil spirit find its way into this place of quiet and happi- ness. And it was embodied in a forrm beautiful, as seemed the serpent to mother Eve's fascinated eyes. Clementina Wilkie had been in school but a few days previous to the event I have just described, and when she saw that Ella Stanmore was a favorite of all the girls, jealousy took possession of her heart. In personal appearance, she and Ella were the antipodes of each other as they were in character. Ella was a slight, sylph-like figure, and every motion was un. studied grace. Her eyes were of that azure hue that reminds one of heaven, with an expression that bespoke a soul over- flowing with sensibility, and every emotion of her mind could be read in her speaking face. Her brown silken hair hung in natural ringlets. Clementina was tall and perfectly graceful, for she did not move a muscle or a limb without thinking what effect it would have. Her eyes were dark as jet, and, at times, when she was angry, they glittered like those of a serpent, but that was the only indication of it you saw, for dissimulation seemed natural to her, and she never permitted her feelings to be depicted on her countenance. Her hair was black and glossy as the raven's wing; and when she wrapped it in shining braids around her well formed head, she was perfectly beautiful. She could not injure Ella Stanmore whilst at school, where all knew and loved her, but when they had completed their education and mingled in the same society, she was more successful in her arts.   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         23 CHAPTER III. THE BIRTH-NIGHT PARTY. "GOOD morning, Mary," said Mrs. Wilmer, as Mrs. Carlton, with the freedom of a privileged friend, entered the room where she was engaged in sewing; "some mesmeric influence must have drawn you hither, for I was just thinking of you." "I called round to tell you Mrs. Grayson intends giving a grand party on Annie's birth-day; she and Emma are such friends that we are invited. Is not that quite an honor, to be invited to the distinguished and aristocratic Mrs. Grayson's?" "Mary, I am surprised that, with your natural good sense, you do not understand human nature better." "Why so, Hannah?" "Because you know Mrs. Grayson does not invite you to her parties because she respects you, but because Emma is beauti- ful and accomplished, possessing that rare talent of improvising both song and music. And Mrs. Grayson knows, by present- ing one so gifted, it will create a sensation, and cause Annie's birth-day party to be remembered when it would otherwise be forgotten." "Well, I don't care what motive prompts her. It will be the means of introducing Emma into the most distinguished circles of society. Let her once be known in that society, and I have no fears but she will make a conquest that will place her per- manently in that position." "Don't be too sanguine in such an expectation. There are too many accomplished and portionless beauties, who gild such A   24        ANNIE 'GRAYSON; OR, society, hoping to win a wealthy or distinguished husband. Sometimes they succeed, but it more frequently happens, although every home comfort is sacrificed by a vain and scheming mo- ther that the daughter may have the means of appearing ele- gantly dressed at these parties and places of public display, that their beauty fades ere they attain this object. Their accom- plishments are displayed till they cease to attract attention, and then, those wealthy and distinguished persons who have used them, as they would an ornament, to add to the attractions of their drawing-rooms, when their beauty fades, throw them by as they would a soiled ornament which no longer decorates; And the beauty who has learned to despise the quiet and heart- felt joys of home, and thinks life has no enjoyment but that de- rived firom excitement and gay society, instead of repaying the nmother for the sacrifices she has made, by assisting her in tak- ing care of the smaller children, and imparting to them the ac- complishnents which she possesses, but which the parents are unable to give the other members of the family, adds to the cares of the mother by her fretfulness and ill temper." "But Emma does not belong to that class; her'greatest pleasure is, to instruct Leila, when at home." "True, Emma is not now such a character. She has heart, ele- vation, and purity of character, and for that very reason, I would not have you place her where these high and noble qualities might be debased, nor would I have her young heart pained by feeling she was. merely tolerated in the society of those, to whom she is superior in every respect, save that of position." , Well, Hannah! it is no use talking, you will never con- vince me of the correctness of your notions. I think it natural for every one to try to associate with the best society." "True, but we differ in our notions of what constitutes the best society. In my opinion, that is the best society, where the purest morality is found and the highest intellectual culture exists; you think that society best, where there is most splen- dor and elegance of dress. It is this mistaken notion that causes many to affect a style of living that they are unable to support, and in the end, it is the cause of wretchedness and suffering.   "FE IN WASHTNGTON.        , 25 They contract debts, lose the respect of their fellow citizens, their own self-respect, and finally, when they can obtain no more credit, and are obliged to change their style of living, -those, for whose society they have incurred all this, and who have partaken of their hospitality, eaten and praised their sumptuous dinners, will pass them by with contempt, saying, what fools they were to attempt a style of living beyond their means. It is to prevent you from falling into this error, that I speak thus plainly." Mrs. Carlton and Mrs. Wilmer were -cousins, had gone to the same school and had been playmates in childhood, and though as unlike as possible in their notions of things, they loved each other as sisters. Annie Grayson's birth-day party was the theme of conver- sation in the houses of the five hundred dear friends invited upon the occasion. Reclining on a rich lounge in the boudoir of her aunt, Mrs. Parkinson, lay Clementina Wilkie, whilst the following conversation passed between them. "Clem, I will spare no expense to get you an elegant dress for Mrs. Grayson's party, and you must eclipse all the beauties there, save the daughter of the hostess." "That will not be easily done, aunt! For Emma Carlton and Ella Stanmore will be there, and although neither of them have any right to be admitted to such society, yet, being invited by Mrs. GraIyson, will secure them attention, and as they are both beautiful, and new faces in society, they will attract much admiration." "Well, you can eclipse them in the elegance of your dress." "Yes, that will be some gratification, but still it is provoking that they should be invited. There will soon be no such thing as select society in Washington, when such as they, are to be met, even at Mrs. Grayson's." "If I were you, I would treat them with marked neglect." "No, no, Aunt! that won't do; for they are particular friends of Annie Grayson, and by that means I should incur her coldness." "Do as you please. I have perfect confidence in your judg-   26        ANNIE GRAYSON   OR, ment; but here comes the carriage, let us go and\ make our purchases. As you are no longer a school girl, . will get you some handsome jewelry, so dismiss that frown from your brow, for it mars your beauty very much." Annie's birth-day arrives, and although it is December, the air is balmy as a spring day. Young hearts bound merrily at the anticipated pleasures of the evening, and the impression they shall make on their first presentation in society as young ladies; for Annie, as well as several of her friends, has just completed her education, and this is her first party. The elegant rooms of Mrs. Grayson are brilliantly lighted; music's merry strains invite to the dance; sets are forming, when a gentleman of great personal beauty, and polished grace of manner, approaches Annie, saying: "Dear Coz, will you present me to that lovely girl, with whom you were conversing a moment since. I never looked upon a face that interested me so much. In expression it re- minds one of the Madonna, so pure, so gentle." "Ah, I will with pleasure! it is darling Ella, and her face 'idicates her character truly. I sometimes fancy she is not destined to remain long with us, she is so pious, so amiable. Ah, cousin Fred, I am so glad you arrived just to-day, so that none of my friends know the relationship you bear to me, and I can watch the impression each makes upon you." She pre- sented him to Ella Stanmore, and whilst they are engaged in dance, we will give you a bit of his history. He is the only child of a sister of Mr. Grayson. Both his parents are dead, leaving him in possession of one of the largest estates in Louisiana. He usually spent his winters in New. Orleans, but had come to spend the present winter in Wash. ington, at the urgent solicitation of Annie, who had written to him that this was her first winter in society, and he must posi- tively come and spend the winter in this city. He had come on condition that she should present him to her fashionable friends as a poor relative, dependent on the bounty of her father, because he intended to find a wife among them, and he wished to be loved for himself, not for his possessions.   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         27 As Ella glided through the dance, with the grace of a sylph, the whispered inquiry ran through the room: "Who is she?" "Where is she from?" with the remark, How beautiful she is. And she was a perfect picture of loveliness. Her fair face, which usually had a rather pensive expression, was now lighted up with animation, and her dark auburn hair fell in glossy curls over her exquisitely formed neck and shoulders, whilst her deep blue eyes were raised to the face of her partner, speaking the pleasure she derived from the enjoyment of the dance. When she had taken her seat, Clementina Wilkie, who had listened, with a heart filled with envy, to the expressions of admiration that her appearance elicited, approached her with one of her brightest smiles, saying: "Ella dear, I always thought you lovely, but to-night you even surpass yourself. But pray tell me, who was the elegant gentleman with whom you were dancing?" "I only know he is from the South, and his name is Leroux." "He dances elegantly." "Yes, and he conversed beautifully." "Does he intend remaining long in the city 2" "During the winter." Just at this moment Mr. Leroux approached and was presented y Ella, to Miss Wilkie. This was the object for which she had approached Ella. She could not bear to see Ella receiving the attention of one of the most distinguished looking gentlemen in the room, and she determined she would monopolize his atten- tion during the balance of the evening. For this purpose she exerted herself to be brilliant and interesting, and as she pos- sessed fine conversational powers, she detained him by her side for some time, but the impression she made was not as favorable as she supposed. Annie, who came up to him when Clementina had been claimed for the dance by another gentleman, said, "Ah, cousin, the dark-eyed Clementina seems to have capti vated you." "No, no, not so." "You seemed to listen enraptured to the remarks that flowed from her rosy lips. Mind, I have been noting you closely."   28         ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, "I was an attentive, but not enraptured listener, to her ele- gantly rounded periods; but it seems to me she talks by rule, not from the heart. There is more soul in one glance from the soft blue eye of Miss Stanmore, than in all the high flown senti- mentality that Miss Wilkie has been pouring into my ear. I don't like dark eyed beauties nohow." "Stop, stop Fred, and look at the color of my eyes. You must learn to compliment one, without wounding the vanity and self love of another." "Well, well, I will be your pupil, you must teach me that art." But where is Emma Carlton, that she has not been spoken of, during the evening. She is the centre of an admiring crowd in another part of the room. Although this is her first appearance in society, there is a queenly grace and dignity about her that commands respect and admiration. Toward the close of the evening she, with Annie and some other friends, loitered in the music room. Annie, who was anxious to display the talents of her friend, proposed music, and insisted that Emma should take a seat at the harp and give them something suited to the scene. She, with that desire to please which characterized her, drew the harp to her, and running her fingers over its strings, a sweet gush of melody filled the room, and in a voice soft and silvery she warbled the fAllowing: You bid me touch the harp strings, And call forth some glad lay, Accordipg with this festive scene, Where all are joyous, gay; Where fairy forms of beauty, Glide through the mazy dance, And music, with its witching spell, The spirit doth entrance. Glad hearts with joy are swelling, And life unto them seems, A path on which the sunlight, Will ever' shed his beams; And some bright hope is budding, In every youthful breast, Which, when it shall be realized, Will make them truly blest.   "FE IN WASHNGTON.           29 May no dark cloud of sorrow, E'er cast upon, each brow, A deeper shade of thought or care, Than rests upon it now. Oh beautiful, most beautiful, Unto my vision seems, The glimpses of the future, That o'er my spirit gleams. There is music breathing round me, There is beauty in my sight, And friends whose tones fall kindly, Upon my ear to night, And when a year hath flitted by, I trust we all may be, As joyous as we are to-night, As full of mirth and glee. When she rose from the harp, a murmur of applause greeted ner. It was not the beauty of the song, but the grace with which she touched the instrument, and the thrilling, earnest character of the music that called forth admiration. Time ever flies most rapidly when pleasure gilds his wings. And the young friends of Annie found it so on this, her eighteenth birth day. As they bade her adieu, she told them she would expect to meet them all on her next birth-day, with hearts as full of gayety as they were to-night. It is a wise provision of nature that young hearts always look on the bright side of life. When the last guest had departed, Mrs. Grayson told Annie, that henceforth she must be more particular in selecting her friends. Now that she would mingle in society, her school-girl friendships must be given up, and her associations must be with persons distinguished for wealth or position. "Mother, 1 think the friendships contracted at school should be cherished, for there you see the character as it is; but in society, the real character is hidden, and the gentlest smile, often covers the falsest heart." "Yes, but a certain propriety should be observed in conformity with the notions of society. For instance, it is not altogether proper, that you, a senator's daughter, should associate with the mere common people, because you may have found them amiable   30        AN NII GRAYSON; OR, and worthy. Now, that you go in society, you must have your associations with those of your own rank." "Rank," repeated Frederick Leroux, who had been an in- terested listener to Mrs. Grayson's remarks. "Why, my dear aunt, that is a new word to use in reference to society, in demo- cratic America. How long do you suppose my uncle would retain his rank as senator, did his constituents know the opinions entertained by his family '" "There is no need of their knowing it. When we are at home we can associate with them familiarly. There is no necessity for such distinctions in society there, as exist here."  "Do all Senators, and persons holding distinguished offices, have two sets of principles to govern their conduct, one for Washington and one for home?" "Oh, no, there are some of them as unsophisticated, or to use a westernism, which expresses more precisely the idea I wish to convey, they are as green as Annie, and act upon the same prin- ciples in their intercourse with society here, that they do at home. But we, who are the real leaders of the ton, regard them as scarcely belonging to our set." "Cousin," said Annie laughingly, "I do not wish to show dis- respect to the opinions of my dear mamma, but I must tell you, it is not the senators themselves, who make these distinctions in society here in Washington, but their lady wives. Although mamma is so exclusive in her notions, papa appreciates every one for his own intrinsic merit, regardless of what his position may be. And he permits me to select my friends in the same manner." "Yes, and that is the reason I have so much trouble with you." "I think, when I follow the opinions of papa, I shall not err greatly." What does a man know about these nice shades of distinction in society." "I really confess I know nothing about them," said Fred, "will you you enlighten me, Cousin Annie '" "I am just from school and am not competent to do so, but I   "FE IN WASHNGTON.       ,  SI you will remain here during the winter, and being a member of our family, you will have access to, and be an honored guest in the highest circles, and if you will keep your eyes and ears open, you will learn those nice distinctions, yourself. Now, do not suppose I wish to imply, that all those who form that circle, have no right to that position but that derived from wealth and office. Usually office is conferred on account of merit, and superiority of intellect, consequently, in no place can more intellectual and re- fined society be met with, than in the best circles of Washington. Yet, there are a few, who have, by fortunate circumstances, been elevated to tie highest positions, whose associations in early life were with the ignorant and uneducated, and it is such as these who are afraid of compromising their dignity by associations beneath them, whilst the truly great never think of such things. They are conscious of their own worth, and have no fear but others will appreciate them." "Well, I will take due advantage of my favorable position for observing society, and trust, with some assistance from the good taste of yourself, and my aunt, I shall be able to estimate it cor rectly." "Tell us what impression was made upon you to-night." "Ahem-I don't exactly like to tell," said he, placing his hand upon his heart. "Heart affected?" "Do you believe in love at first sight?" "I have never thought anything about it, but have never expe- rienced any such symptoms myself." "Well, I cannot say, but a pair of blue eyes, and a mass of auburn curls, seem to occupy a prominent position in the picture impressed upon the tablet of my memory, as I recur to the gay scene, in which I have been an actor this evening.' "Take care, take care, she is one of the people." "How came she here?" "She was merely tolerated on my account; she is one of my school-girl friendships." "I am sure, if I were you, it is one that I should cherish. If )      32        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, her face is an index of her heart, which I believe it to be, you could not have a friend more desclving.'" "Ah, Fred, I think you are in danger, but perhaps a sleep will restore the tone of your nerves, so I will leave you wishing you pleasant dreams." -,( (/   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         33 CHAPTER IV. THE WARNING. ANNIE, although enjoying all the opportunity for self-indulgence that wealth bestows, never yielded to indolence or sloth. She had been accustomed to early rising when at school, and when she had completed her education, and was about leaving the Academy, Sister Angelique, who was remarkable for her piety, active benevolence, and thorough knowledge of human nature, had impressed it upon her, that she should continue to practice the habits she had acquired. She told her, although she would no longer have to study the morning lesson, she should not waste that hour in sleep, but employ it in reading some useful work, or doing some act of kindness to a fellow being to whom fortune had been less kind than to herself. She had followed the advice of Sister Angelique, and made it a constant rule to rise with the lark, winter and summer; and when the weather was pleasant, she would visit the abodes of the lowly, and her voice was music to the ear of many a toil-worn mother. She ever accompanied the little gifts she bestowed upon them with words of encourage- ment and kindness, which enhanced the value of the gifts. Her name was mingled with the evening prayer that rose from many a heart. The morning following her birth-day party, she had just returned from one of those visits of charity, when her cousin met her at the door. What," said he, "thus early abroad! I supposed after the fatigue and excitement of last evening, we should not see you till noon at least; but here you are, looking as bright and beauti- ful, almost, as the dreams that haunted my pillow last night."   34        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, "Then you did have pleasant dreams?" ( Most assuredly I did." "I cannot stop now to inquire their import, for by this time Aunt Airy has her breakfast ready, and I cannot bear to make her wait a moment for me." She was considerate towards the servants, giving them as little trouble as possible, and they almost worshiped her. When they met in the breakfast room, to Fred's look of in- quiry for his aunt, who was not present, she told him that her mother always took her breakfast at a later hour, and in her own room. When they had finished the morning meal, Fred told his cousin he wished to go to the Senate, and as it was his first visit there. he would beg the favor of her company. She readily assehted, and twelve o'clock found them in the gallery of the Senate, which was filled with the beauty and fashion of the city. This being his first visit, he wished to hear all that was said by the senators, but he happened to be seated next Miss Wilkie, who wished to play the agreeable, and show him she could converse with as much fluency on grave matters of state, as she could upon the frivolities of fashion. He listened to her remarks with polite at- tention, which caused her to suppose she had deepened the favor- able impression she fancied she had made on the previous evening. When they returned from the Senate, Annie told Fred, she 4 thought he had given more attention to Miss Wilkie's conversa- tion than he did to the speeches of the Senators. He replied : "Of course, I could not treat a lady rudely ; she claimed my attention in such a manner that I could not refuse it. But I do think--begging your pardon,' cousin-that if ladies go to the Senate Chamber only to display their elegant bonnets, attract admiration, get a nod and a smile from senators, or to chat with their friends, that they would better stay away, and let their seats be occupied by gentlemen, and those who wished to listen to the debates of the Senate," "That is precisely my opinion." "I am glad that it is, for I can assure you I was very much   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         35 annoyed to-day that I, could not be permitted to listen, quietly to the debates."  "I should suppose that a young gentleman would have felt flattered, that so beautiful a girl, as you must admit Clementina to be, should have taken so much pains- to interest you." Yes, she is, beautiful; but when she raises her dark eyes to my face, as if she would read my thoughts, there is a voice within me which seems to say, 'Beware, she is your evil genius.'"  "I believe you are superstitious." "No". "Well, how do you account for this fancy T" "I do not attempt to account for it, but I think the sweet smile of your friend Miss Stanmore would exorcise the evil spirit." "When we have taken tea, we will call around and spend an hour with her, and you will find the mother a very superior wo- man. Though she does not mingle much in society, she pos- sesses an elegance of manner that would grace any circle." The call was made, and the gentle, affectionate deference of Ellen to her mother won a more profound-admiration from Fred, than her grace and beauty had done. Their little parlor was not expensively furnished, but neat and comfortable. Yet, the visitor of refined and cultivated-tastes, though accustomed to the elegant furniture with which wealth loves to surround itself, did not miss its presence in this dwell- ing.; for the interest inspired by both mother and daughter was such, that it seemed they were just fitted for the home in which they dwelt. Whilst Frederick Leroux was enjoying the pleasant society of Ella and her mother, Clementina Wilkie was devising plans for attracting him to herself. As she looked on her graceful person and perfect beauty of feature with a complexion of clearest brunette, her dark eye flashed with triumph, and she soliloquized thus: "He cannot resist nr y charms, nay, he shall not. I know my power and will use it. It is strange the interest I feel in this   36        . ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, stranger. I, who have listened, unmoved, to the coi-hpliments of distinguished foreigners, senators, and others holding high positions in society; or at least, with no other emotion than that of gratified vanity, that I possessed the power of eliciting such compliments. But this acquaintance of a day, I feel that it is the great aim of my life to bring him to my feet, and should I fail- but I will not fail. Have I ever failed yet, to accomplish any thing I purposed? No, no, 1 know human nature too well. It has been my study from childhood. There is no heart, but what I can learn its weakness. Even my aunt, I can govern at my will, and there are few natures like hers." A low silvery laugh filled the room, as she stood before the magnificent mirror and rearranged the mass of dark shining hair that was folded around her finely formed head. A look of scorn flashed across her features whilst she added*: "But I believe it is a spirit of perverseness. I noted the look of admiration with which he regarded the sweet baby face of Ella Stanmore, and at that moment a desire took possession of me to attract him to myself. Should she coine between me and my wishes, I could crush her, as I would an insect. The human heart is a strange thing. Even mine, that I thought was under the perfect control of my will, shows a disposition to rebel. Well, well, we will see," said- she, turning from the mirror, and throwing herself on a superb sofa; and, reclining on its damask cushions, she sank into a reverie. Had the spirit which enshrined that beautiful form been imbued with piety and truth, Clementina would have been one of earth's brightest gems. She possessed intellect of a high order. She was ambitious and aspiring, and she had stored her mind with solid knowledge and light literature; but the pure truthful heart was wanting, and that marred her loveliness. Her aunt would sometimes say to her: "Clementina, you know you are to be the possessor of all my wealth; and what is the use of your devoting so much time to reading and study. Your wealth, beauty, and accomplishments are such, that you .can captivate whom you choose. Enjoy. your-   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         87 self, and leave study for those who are under the necessity of earning their living by their wits." "No, no, aunt," she would reply, " am ambitious of being considered the most distinguished lady in the city. Any pretty simpleton who has money, niay, with the assistance of the milliner and mantua-maker, make an elegant appearance, and attract ad- miration; but, I wish to do more: I would attract by my appear- ance, and enchain by my talents. I would not have persons say of me, She is charming until you hear her talk, then the charm disappears, for the nonsense she utters disenchants you." In conversation she excelled; and she determined to avail her- self of every opportunity of making an impression on Frederick Leroux. She never appeared to more advantage than at a dinner-party composed of distinguished and intellectual persons. Knowing this, she proposed to her aunt that invitations to a dinner-party should be issued, and notne but the most distinguished be invited, including the family of Mr. Grayson. The invitations were sent and accepted. It was seldom a regret was sent to Mrs. Parkinson, for her dinners were gotten up in the most superb manner, and Clementina's conversational powers spread a charm over the entertainment that made them very pleasant and interesting. At six o'clock precisely, the guests were all assembled in the brilliantly-lighted and luxuriously furnished drawing-room. They were composed of persons most distinguished for talent and posi- tion, and Clementina, With a tact exclusively her own, managed to make each feel that he was the particularly honored guest. Although her whole object was to make an impression on Fred- erick Leroux, she was careful not to be seated next him at the dinner table, but on the opposite side, so that the deference and admiration, which she received from the gentleman who was seated by her side, might be observed by him. She felt if she could only secure his attention, it would not be possible for him to regard her with indifference. And she had calculated rightly, for ere the evening had passed, the repulsion he" had at first felt 'towards her, was dissipated, and he was interested. When they   38        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, returned to the drawing-room after dinner, she engaged him in conversation; and as his attention was wholly given to her, he was perfectly lascinated whilst listening to her sweet voice. She during the evening learned he was passionately fond of chess, and as she played this game remarkably well, she challenged him to call the next evening and take a game with her. He, as a v matter of course, accepted the invitation. A sparkle of triumph flashed from her eyes, for she felt she now could appropriate as much of his time as she chose; for the chess-player, when en- gaged in his favorite amusement, is unmindful of the lapse of time. When the family of Mr. Grayson returned from the dinner- party of Mrs. Parkinson, Mrs. Grayson, who, when not engaged in visiting or receiving company herself, generally spent her time in lounging upon a sofa, retired to her own room; and Mr. Gray- son, who always had business to occupy him, was engaged in his study, leaving Frederick and Annie to discuss the dinner-party with all the animation which young persons generally feel when first going into society. "Ah, cousin," said Annie, "I think Clementina has captivated you, from the manner with which you listened to the musical intonations of her voice, and her beautifully rounded periods." "I am not captivated but fascinated. She steals one's senses as it were, whilst the heart is untouched." "That is because there is no heart about her. She owes her faculty of pleasing to her mental cultivation, whilst the more ele- vated moral qualities are neglected. We have too many such women in this city." "I have only had a glimpse of the society of your city, and already feel bewildered, excited. My thoughts do not flow in that quiet manner in which they were wont to flow." "Perhaps a little music would have a good effect in restoring your equanimity." "If you will sing some sweet, simple air, such as used to lull my restless spirit when a child. Whatever I love, I love pas- sionately. There is no medium in nmy temperament. Oh, by- the-by, cousin, do you play chess?"   "FE IN WASHNGTON.           3 "Not well." "Chess playing is my passion, and Miss Wilkie has invitec me to take a game with her to-morrow evening." "Few ladies play as well as she." "It requires mind to play well--but give me a song, I woul - prefer music to chess this evening." Annie drew near the[ harp, and after a sweet prelude, sang it a voice of exquisite sweetness: It is not in the banquet hall, Or pleasure's giddy round, Where life seems full of hope and joy, That truest hearts are found. There, bright eyes flash, and steal away, The spirit for awhile, And gentle words fall on the ear, Enhanced by beauty's smile. Let those whom fortune favored most, By sorrow be o'ertaken, Then oh, how soon those summer friends, Will leave them, lone, forsaken. And friends with whom in happier hours, They've mingled in the dance, Now pass them with a chilling bow, Or with averted glance. When Annie rose from the harp, he remarked in voice tremu lous with emotion. "'Tis strange, that you should have selected the very air tha my mother always sang for me in boyhood, when she wished t, win my thoughts from aiy unpleasant subject. Oh, how I idolizes my mother." "I have often heard my father speak of her pure, artless cha racter. He says, Ella Stanmore reminds him    of what Aun Annie was at her age, more than any one he ever saw." "Sweet Ella Stanmore. 'Tis true, she has the same heavenl1 blue eye, and pure unselfish character. When I am in her pre sence, I feel that the- chastening influence, which restrained m: wayward boyhood, is yet around me. It is her resemblance t(   40        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, my sainted mother, that makes me feel that I could enshrine her in my heart as its living divinity."' :/ "If you feel thus toward Ella, beware of Miss Wilkie: she is no friend of Ella." "You are mistaken, cousin. You should have heard her speak of Ella to me last night;-you yourself could not have spoken more glowingly." "I have heard her rhapsodies; but I know her well-she is as wily as the arch fiend himself; she praises that she may the more surely injure. She reads hearts as others read books; and she knew, if she had spoken otherwise than in praise of Ella, it would have fallen on a deaf ear. But she spoke of her as a friend who loved her dearly-thus she secured your attention, and she will often refer to her with words of friendship; but yet, she will, after a while, begin to point out any little faults Ella may have in the kindest spirit imaginable, regretting that a cha- racter, so nearly perfect, should not be quite so." "But Ella has no faults." "So you now think.; but if Clementina once gets you into her wiles, she will make you see faults." "Never!" "We will see." "She will not attempt it, because I have expressed to her my admiration of Ella's character." "Perhaps our conversation of to-night may recur to you at some future period. I have spoken to you thus, because I see she is resolved to add you to her list of admirers, of whom she has not a few, and when she thus resolves, she never fails." "Cousin Annie, you are only jealous because she can draw around her and enchain by her conversation the most renowned statesmen as well as the more inexperienced like myself." "No, Fred, I have no wish to attract the admiration of the crowd; I only wish to be enshrined in one noble, truthful heart." "From what I have seen of the ladies of this city, who are in the habit of miingling constantly in society, it strikes me that the ruling passion of all, both married and unmarried, is to attract admiration."   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         4 "There is too much truth in your remark. There are man whose only aim in life is to be thus distinguished. But yo must not say all, for I know many, who possess all the retirinl sweet, womanly virtues, that constitute a perfect female chi racter." "Well, well, I will suspend my judgment till the winter past; but it seems to me, if I were a senator or congressman, should almost fear to bring my wife to this city : the constar round of visiting and excitement, in which her position almos obliges her to engage, might destroy her taste for those hom pleasures, which is the sweetest charm of life." "To a mind rightly balanced, there is no danger of any sue effect being produced. They will appreciate the more, home an -its pleasures." "I have visited New Orleans, St. Louis, and other cities of th South and West, been introduced to, and associated with th most refined circles, but must admit there is a fascination i Washington society that is to be met with nowhere else. Yo are here every day brought in contact with men whose bar presence, in any other city, would create an excitement. A Paris has been designated the centre of attraction for the world so Washington may be called the centre of attraction in th United States."   42        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, CHAPTER. V. THE SLEIGHNG PARTY, IT is deep, deep winter. The gently undulating and wide. spread prairies of Illinois, which in summer, when the tall grass, with which they are covered, is gently swayed, to and fro, by the zephyr's kiss, presented to the eye a picture resembling the bosom of the dark green sea, when ruffled by a light breeze, are now covered with snow. The thousand voices, that made this scene vocal with music during the bright summer days, are now hushed. No sound is heard save the slbigh bells' merry jingle. In a capacious farmhouse, on the border of one of these wide spread prairies, all seems activity and bustle. The good wife is arranging pies, cakes, jams and jellies, whilst one of the daugh- ters is busied in preparing poultry for the oven, and the rich fumes of the kitchen indicate, that the herds of deer, that abound so gracefully over the prairies of the west, have contributed their share towards furnishing the bounteous feast that is in prepar- ation. But what is the cause of this preparation? Ah, a sleigh- ing party from Quincy is expected, and the talented young Editor of one of the newspapers of that city, is to form one of the party. He came from Washington city, that of itself would give him distinction with the fair belles of this western region, but EDWIN STANMORE, for 'tis he, good reader, was looked up ! to with respect, by old men and politicians. About three years j previous to the time of which I am speaking, h6 had come to I  Quincy, and established his paper. His honorable, upright course, and the talent with which he advocated the principles of the party to which he belonged, caused him to be regarded as a leader of   / *L ; '    IFE IN WASHNGTON.         4 that party, and they were already speaking of him as a candidat to represent them in Congress. His time was devoted to the duties which devolved on him a: Editor, and it was seldom he joined in a pleasure party. But ii this instance he had accepted the cordial invitation of farme: Edwards, who told him if he refused, he should think partialit] for his city associations, made him feel above associating witt the plain farmers of the West. Thus urged he could not refuse Mr. Edwards was one of the early settlers of Illinois, and was personally acquainted with almost every family in Quincy. All the young folks of the village, for at this early period, Quincy was only a village, were invited. These, with the neighbors within the vicinity, would form a large party, and preparations were made to entertain them with true Western hospitality. The sun, whose bright rays had been reflected back from the crystallized surface of the snow, during the day, with a brilliancy almost blinding, is now sinking low in the western horizon. Mrs. Edwards surveys with a satisfied look, the long table spread in the dining room, and loaded with the delicious viands, and delicacies with which a Western farmer's larder abounds, and which his wife and daughters know so well how to serve up for their guests. Being satisfied that every thing was arranged to her taste, she turned to her two blooming daughters, Kate and Bell, saying: "Now girls, it is nearly sundown, you would better go dress. The sleighs will be coming in soon, and you must be ready to receive the company.  I guess I can manage every thing myself now until supper is ready." "Let Kate go dress," said the,merry-hearted Bell, "I will help you awhile longer; you know Kate wants to make a con- quest of Mr. Stanmore, but as I have no such ambition, there is no need of my giving any extra finish to my toilet." "I guess Mr. Stanmore has too much good sense to judge the character of his acquaintances by their dress." "Well, well, Kate, that may be, but I, myself, like to see you robed in your best, for although a country maiden, you equal any city lady of them all."   hi        ANNIE GRAYSUN ; UO, Just at this moment the old farmer, who was bustling through ,he house to see that each room had good fires, came into the lining room. "Mother," said he, "aint you nearly through with your pre- parationsq I am afraid Kate and Bell will be so tired by the ;ime the company comes they will not enjoy themselves." "Why, who ever heard of a country girl that tired in prepar. ng to entertain -her friends. Tired indeed, why I intend to make  a conquest of your sage, Mr. Stanmore, to-night, if Kate does not."' "Go along, mad cap, it is the expectation of seeing somebody else, to-night, that gives you such fine spirits." "Who, papa ." "Oh, yes, who papa, who is it that is always coming to ask  D my advice about farming, and Miss Bell's opinion about furnish- ing his new house, and what mother thinks but, whew! the gypsy's gone."' The bleak winds swept over the dreary snow-clad prairie, ren- dering the atmosphere biting cold, but the merry sleighing party heed it not. Enveloped in buffalo robes to protect them from  ^ the cold, they skim over the smooth roads with almost the fleet- A ness of a bird, whilst music of the sleigh bells, makes their young hearts bound joyously. Arrived at their destination, they find  warmth and cheerfulness in the domicil of Mr. Edwards, also in the hearts of its inmates. The cheerful fire blazes  ^ high upon the hearth, and words of kindly greeting fall upon the ear, whilst bright eyes fairly dance with delight,   - and merry voices chatter, "Oh, there- is nothing so exhila-   j rating as a sleigh ride over a western prairie." When they had taken off their wrapping, andi thoroughly warmed them-  selves, the fiddler, who had been provided for the occasion, took his position in one corner of the room, and drew the bow over the strings of his violin, as much as to say, I am ready; let - those who wish to dance take their places on the floor; and it was not long till light forms were gliding through the dance. Although the bright lights, exquisite music, and elegant dresses, which give brilliancy to the Washington Assemblies, were not there, yet there was more true heartfelt enjoyment than is to be   -lLU ILN WASHNGTON.         45 found at these assemblies. The conlpany was composed of neighbors and friends, each known to the other. They had met together to enjoy a mutual interchange of kindly feeling, not to display the elegance of their toilet and attract the admiration of the crowd by the artistic skill with which they whirled through the waltz. Indeed, such a thing as waltzing was unknown at that time in the western part of Illinois. But there was much native grace and beauty among the fair daughters of Illinois. And as Edwin Stanmore gazed upon their light forms as they glided through the dance, and their fresh, blooming complexions, untouched by powder or paint, he said within himself, "Were it not for the remembrance of a face of beauty, and a voice of music, whose tones have thrilled my heart since early boyhood, and which have been mingled with all my hopes and aspirations, I should be in danger of being captivated by the flashing eye and ready wit of the merry-hearted, witching Bell Edwards; but the memory of Annie Grayson is interwovenwith my very heart-strings, and no change of place or scene can efface it. Yet, what folly; perhaps even now she has been wooed and won by sonle rising statesman or distinguished foreigner. Annie's chao racter is such as will attract the admiration and win the love of the noblest mind. She has all the glaces and accomplishments of her sex, without any of their foibles and weakness. I well know what a winter in Washington may produce. This is her first winter in society. Ella writes me of the admiration she excites, and with what indifference she regards it. Well, wel; had I the position before men, that I will attain, I would enter the lists as a competitor for her heart and hand. Little does she imagoine the wild, deep, enduring dream of love, she has wakened in my heart. Little does she deem that the poor printer's boy, for as such only she knew me, dared to aspire, even in thought to the love of the daughter of the distinguished senator. But, printing is a  noble art, and he who engages in it with a deter- illnation to elevate himself, may succeed in winning some of life's highest honors. I will win them! There is no obstacl e i that ambition, inspired bylove, will  not encounter and over  Ai  .  . v   "        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, come. But it may be too late to realize my boyhood's- dream. However,   ' Just at this moment the merry voice of Bell Edwards fell on his ears saying,- "'Tis too bad, Mr. Stanmore, that you cannot give one evening to pleasure, but here you sit in one corner absorbed in inditing an editorial for your next paper.' "No, lady." "Then an essay upon the frivolities of life." "Not that either." "Pray, what did occupy your thoughts? Here I have been practicing all the airs and graces of which I am mistress, to attract your attention, but, you were so absorbed in reverie, that you gave no heed to my efforts." "I was thinking of a loved one far away, with whom I have often joined in the festive dance." "That is a poor compliment to our Illinois belles." "It is perfectlyv natural that the benevolent face of your own dear mother, should call up the remembrance of mine." "Your mother, only your mother?" said Bell, looking mis- chievously into his face. "And a sister, bright and beautiful as yourself." "Ah! you can compliment. Only a mother and sister to claim your thoughts." ' I have none else to care for me, in the city of my childhood's home." "Had that sweet sister no dear young friend, who would re- gard the brother for the sister's sake?" "None." "There may be some fair one who feels an interest in the brother, called forth by his own superior talent." "That is a city in which talent is not apt to be discovered, unless accompanied by wealth, or possessing the influence of some distinguished personage to call attention to it." "I have half a mind to fall in love -with you myself. But let  me see first if your heart be not pre-engaged. Give me your hand, I am an adept in the science of palmistry."   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         47 He extended his open hand. She looked at it a moment with seeming earnestness, and then looking into his face with a roguish smile, said: "Well, the Hon. Mr. Stanmore-H-onorable that is to be, you know papa and the other Democratic leaders, in this district, intend sending you to Congress in a year or two. That was what put it into my head to try make a conquest of you, so I might visit Washington. Would I not be a Bell in Washington, just fresh from the prairies of, the West?" "You would be a belle." "But let me go on with the reading of the incidents of your life, the past and the future. There is a certain young lady in Washington, who has all the perfections of her sex with none of their faults. When Mr. Edwin Stanmore grew to man's estate, he happened to meet this perfect creature in society, and so charmed was he    " "No, we played together from childhood."- "True enough, there is a line in your hand that I did not ob- serve. You played together fromnt childhood, and the consequence was, you learned to love each other, but the mother, who was a vain am bitious  woman, treated M]r. Stanmore with so much halrteur, that he in a fit of indignation, resolves to go to the far West, win political honors, return to Washington as a member of Congress, and then breathe his love-tale into the ear of the "That is a fancy sketch." "Not altogether.   You know you played together in child. "There is a  true friend with whom we played in childhood but that does not imply that I fell in love with her." Oh no, you naturally loved her, without knowing when the sentiment took  a form in your heart."  "You are a merry witch." Yes, and I  love to see all merry about me S you shall not Sit here dreaming of absent beauties, when there are so many present, who claim your attention ."   ! i1   48        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, "Then honor me by dancing the next cotillion-wi}ne, I an sure I shall catch a portion of your glad spirit." "Did you ever hear of such a disease as the blues V" I have heard ladies in the city complain of it frequently." "I have never had -anything of the kind myself, but have some idea how it affects one, and can give a certain cure for it. Th, moment any symptom of the disease is felt, go to work, do som, act of kindness for a fellow creature, or make yourself useful ii some way, and my word forit, you will not be troubled with th' blues, horrors, or to express it more elegantly, ennui." Your cheerful spirit would drive such unpleasant visitant! away." "See, the sets are forming for the next dance, let us not loiter Let me engage in what I may, I enter into it with my whole soul.' "You are a whole-souled creature any way." "Ah, that I am, and whole-hearted too." i And thus chattering gaily, she won Edwin Stanmore from al: sad thoughts, and he entered into the spirit of the dance with a zest unusual for him. Music and mirth gave wings to time. The hours sped rapidly by, and ere the joyous young hearts, met together beneath thE hospitable roof of farmer Edwards, Fad deemed the night was half gone, the rosy light of day peeped in upon them. After partaking of a substantial lreakfast, they returned to Quincy, and Edwin whilst he was i" a merry mood, sat down and wrote to his mother a description of a Western sleighing party, and the hospitality of a Western farm house. He de- scribed the frank, generous character of the Western people, and concluded by portraying the warm hearted, unsophisticated cha- racter of Bell Edwards. -Saying, her native loveliness and un- taught grace of manner would create a sensation even in Wash- ington. "Oh, she is a perfect fairy, lovely in mind as she is in person. I am growing to love my Western home very muich: I would not live again in Washington. There is a freedom and independence in the manner of living here, that just suits me. The bosom seems to swell with more expanded, holier, nobler emotions, here amid nature's grandest scenes, than when mingling   Ij    .       LIFE IN WASHNGTON. in the society of, and yielding to the conventional rules th govern the actions of those who dwell in cities.' When Mrs. Stanmore read this letter to Annie, a feeling ( something akin to pain passed through her heart. Although sl had- not admitted to herself, that she felt a deeper interest i Edwin Stanmore than in other acquaintances, yet the thougl that he might love Bell Edwards, taught her that he was deare to her than she had imagined. She was much admired, but th compliments she received, fell upon an indifferent ear. She tool no pleasure in the gay scenes in which she mingled-her hear was not firee. Iln this she was altogether unlike her mother,wh( as she grew older, seemed to covet with more avidity, those un meaning phrases of flattery, which are ever poured into the ea of the votaries of fashion. Often was the daughter found beside the bed of sickness, in the abodes of poverty, administerin to the wants of the poor, and breathing words of hope and encour- agement to their drooping spirits. One morning, just as she and her mother were stepping into the carriage to make some morning calls, an old colored woman to whom she had been very kind, came up to her, saying: "Oh, dear Miss Annie, I's so  sorry you is goin' a visitin 9' Why, what is the matter, Aunt Alice 2' "Oh, dear miss, there is a poor dear young lady, I know she is a raal born lady for all-she is so poor now! and she is in such trouble! She has no acquaintance, and her husband is so, sick this mornin, he's got a  perfect crazy fever, don't know nothin, I'm 'feared hell die, and poor dear lady, she's almost 'strated.  I  thought as  how if she had some female 'oran friend to say a  comfortin word, she would feel better, so I thought I ' would jes come for you. Dear me, dear me, 'tis sich  a pity you are goin a visitin!" d  "N o, no, Aunt Alice, there is no need of m y going, if there j:: s   a sorrowing heart to whom I can administer comfort."  And turning to her mother, she said: c Dear mamma, y ou will excuse nie to our friends, and I will go with Alice."s ! Why not call on your friends first, and then visit this pbor ihspo   i t 2I   5O!        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, family afterwards? I know your friends will feel disappointed if you do not accompany me." "In the homes of luxury to which wewere going, the fact that there is one visitor less, will scarce be n6ted; but in this lowly home to which Alice will conduct me, my voice may give con solation to an anguished heart."- "'Deed, it will, Miss Annie, case every body say you's an angel of mercy." 'You can do as you please, Annie," said the mother, " but am sure I would not deprive myself of the pleasure of seeing my friends, to run and look after all the poor in the city." Annie, without making any reply, turned from the carnriag and went with Alice. As they went along, she saidv "How do you know, Aunty, they are very poor I' By the way they lives, and besides I sold a mighty fine shawl for her. And I oilers knows, when ladies sells rich things they's poor." A few moments brought them to the door, and Annie hear the voice of the husband in frenzied raving, and the gentle voice of the wife endeavoring to quiet and re-assure him. Failing this, she heard her ejaculate in heart-rending tones: "Oh, heavenly father! anything but this I could have born, anything but this. Poverty, want, the abandonment of friend all were nothing; but to see Charles suffering such agony, and I unable to relieve or procure medical aid, oh, 'tis too much, ir heart will break!" and she sank on her knees beside the be sobbing as if her heart were indeed breaking. Annie saw at a glance that she was truly, as Alice had said, lady. Alice went up to her, saying: "Mrs. Walton, this"is Miss Grayson, the kind lady I told y, about." She rose to her feet, and Annie approached her, saying: "Dear Mrs. Walton, Alice told me that you were a stranger in the city, and your husband was very ill. Thinking you might need the assistance of a female friend, I took the liberty of com ing on you. Your husband is indeed very ill," said she, lay   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         6] 4:  her hand upon his fevered-brow. "Have you had a physician?' "Not yet." "Permnit me to recommend Doctor Riley, our family physi cian. Alice, go for him immediately." "I thank you for your kindness, but have not the means of paying a physician's bill." "Give yourself no uneasiness on that account. He is a kind humane man, and will give your husband every attention." The physician came, administered medicine, assuring Mrs Walton there was no danger, but in a few days her husbanr would be restored to health. And she had reason to give ere dence to his words, for in the course of an hour he slept. Annie then left her, with a promise of calling 'to see her often telling her, should her husband grow worse, or should she feel lonely watching by him, to send Alice for her. Mrs. Walton told her, her kindness to an unfortunate strange] would never be forgotten; that she had brought hope to a heart almost crushed with despair, and that Heaven would shower it, choicest blessings on her head. "Ah, it is seldom," said she, glancing at Annie's rich dress that the young and happy, occupying your-position, think of the sufferings of others. I cannot sufficiently express my grati tude." Without waiting to hear more, Annie hurried from the humblE room, and stopping at Alice's, she placed her purse in her hand telling her to go at once to Mrs. Walton's, and assist her in nurs ing her husband; and also provide every necessary comfort for them both.   i\ A VISIT OF CHARITY. ANNI had been home some time, when her mother returned. She had enjoyed her morning visits very much. Entering the drawing-room where her daughter was seated, with a shade of thought upon her young brow, she said: You should have gone with me this morning; I met several distinguished persons at Mrs. Parkinson's. The lady of the French Minister called whilst I was there. She was accompanied by her nephew, who has just arrived in the city. He is one of the most elegant looking men I ever saw, and Clementina told me, he belongs to one of the noblest families of France. It is too bad that you were not with me to make his acquaintance." "My dear mamma, I did much better; I made the acquaintance of one who needed friendship. I gave comfort to an almost breaking heart, and when I lay my head on my pillow to-night,- the reflection of the manner in which I have spent the day, will give me more pleasure than to have added to my list of acquaint- ance the names of a dozen distinguished foreigners." "Your education at the convent has ruined you; you are only fit to be a nun. Whilst other young girls are making acquaint- ances with the most distinguished gentlemen in the city, and up the poor and sick, and devoting your time to them. "You know, dear mamma, I think a young girl who is ever making a display of her accomplishments, to win admiration, is devoid of that true delicacy and modesty, which is the greatest charm of the female character.   I a6;      ' ' LIFE IN WASHNGTON.'         5f "That will do very well to preach, not practice, in this city, where all make such display. No, no, it will not do; you will be quite overlooked unless you do as others do." " I am content to be overlooked. I do not covet the admira. tion of the gay crowd." "I have no patience with you. Of what use is your talents and education "? " To give pleasure to my father, yourself, and our true friends, who know me well.", "It gives no pleasure to me. It only provokes me, to know you possess talents and accomplishments of the highest order, and are so little known. You are equal, to Clementina Wilkie, and your name is -never heard. But she-no stranger of any distinction comes to the city, but she becomes acquainted with him, and fascinates with her beauty, grace, and conversation. You never see her at a levee, assembly, or party, but she is sur- rounded by the most distinguished gentlemen; whilst you would be unknown, only for the distinguished position of your father and myself. -I am completely out of patience with you." Just as she uttered this sentence, Mr. Grayson entered. See. ing the excited manner of his wife, he said to her,- " My dear, what has annoyed you ?" She repeated to him her opinions of Annie's - folly, contrasted her conduct with Clementina Wilkie's,' and ended by saying, if there was anything she detested, it was an old maid; and she knew Annie would be an old maid. Mr. Grayson listened atten- tively to his wife's complaints, and when she had done, he quietly remarked,- " My dear, I should feel humbled to see my daughter make a parade of her accomplishments to win admiration. It is beneath the dignity of a lady." " Oh, you think whatever Annie does, is just right." "That is true. Her kind heart and good judgment always prompts her to pursue a course that I approve." "Thank you, papa; I would rather have your approbation than the admiration of all the world beside." Mrs. Grayson, complaining of weariness, retired to her own  54   :     ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, room; and the father and daughter were left to enjoy themselves in rational conversation. Annie, whose hand was ever open to do deeds of charity, was never limited in means by her father. When she told him of the scene of distress she had witnessed in the morning, he gave her a purse containing a hundred dollars, saying, she might use it as she chose. She slept sweetly that night, and early next morning she again visited Mrs. Walton. She found old Alice watching beside the sick man's bed; and the young wife, perfectly overcome with anxiety and fatigue, had sunk upon a rude lounge and fallen into a deep sleep. She took a seat near -her and gazed with interest upon the sleeping form before, her. It was a picture for the eye of a painter. Her features were cast in nature's most perfect mould-the long silken eye-lashes rested lovingly on the pale cheek upon which the trace of a tear was discernible, whilst thelong, glossy hair, from which the comb had fallen, lay in a rich mass upon one arm that served as a pillow. She had gazed upon the fair pale face of the sleeper but a short time, when a look of anguish passed over the lovely features, and a deep sigh heaved the bosom; but it was instantly succeeded by a smile, and Annie's ear caught the softly murmured words,-- "She is an angel, Charles,-she is an angel sent to save you." These words sent a thrill of truer pleasure to Annie's heart than the most delicately termed compliment, received from those who flutter round fortune's favorites, would have done. She had been seated thus but a short time, when a low moan from 'the bed where the sick man lay, fell upon her ear. In a moment the young wife sprang to her feet, and was at the bed-side. "Charles--dear Charles, are you worse ." "No, darling, but I was dreaming of all the suffering you had endured for me, and it awakened me." "Go to sleep again, and dream of all the happiness your love has given me." "Nay, Cora, I fear the sorrow has been greater than the hap- piness." "Not so, Charles; but I, too, was dreaming. I dreamed of the kind lady who visited us yesterday."   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         55 "She is here now," interposed Alice. Mrs. Walton turned, and seeing Annie, who had just risen from her chair, she apologized to her for not having observed her. Annie replied,- "No apology is needed. I felt anxious to know how your husband did this morning, and preferred calling myself, to send- ing." "Oh, he is better, much better, thanks to your beneficence and kindness. I can never sufficiently express my gratitude. Yotr saved my husband from death, and me from despair." "Let us not think of that now; is there any thing more I can do for you?" "You are too kind; how few of the gay and happy think of the unfortunate. I trust Charles will soon be well, and then we will not need assistance." "In the meantime you will oblige me by taking this purse," putting in Cora's hand a purse containing fifty dollars, "and providing every thing that will contribute to your husband's comfort."          - "I will accept your kind offer for Charles' sake. The poor can be proud when in health; but sickness bows the spirit, and makes us humble. Ah, little did I once deem that I should be- come the recipient of charity." "We none of us know-what changes are before us. But when misfortunes come, let us bear them with patient resignation. It will lessen the evil." "Ah, lady, your kind words are balm to a bruised spirit. Your presence is a ray of sunlight to my heart, dispelling t;he dark clouds-of despair that were settling round it."  "With your permission, I will call frequently, until your hus- band shall have recovered his health; for I can imagine how your heart yearns for a friend when oppressed with sorrow. But life for me has never had a cloud."  "'And it never will, if the prayers of a grateful heart can avert them." Annie bid her good morning, and Cora's heart beat more   56        AANNIE GRAYSON; OR, lightly in her bosom than it had done for weeks. She felt, she knew not why, that fortune was about to smile more propitiously on her than it had done since her marriage, During the con. valescence of her husband, Annie visited her frequently. and learned something of their hibtory. One day they were conversing on various topics, when Cora said to Anna,-- "I have no doubt, Miss Grayson, but you have wondered what circumstance has placed me in a position so different from that in which I was educated." . "I have sometimes thought of it." "It was marriage against my father's wishes." "It is not possible, Mrs. Walton, that you could disobey your parents in such an important step as marriage. It was a grave fault, but you have suffered severely." "Listen to the circumstances, and then you will not blame me so much. Charles and I had learned to love each other, but he being a clerk in my father's store, the words of love had never been spoken between us. My father, who thought wealth would give happiness, accepted the proposition of a man nearly as-old as himself, who wished to wed his daughter. This man had no quality to recommend him but his wealth. When my father proposed him to me for a husband, I begged him not to think of such a thing. He said I must take the husband he had provided for me, or leave. the house forever. I preferred being turned from the home of my childhood, to becoming the wife of a manll I abhorred, even if I had not loved another. "I left a luxurious home, and became, as it were, an outcast, almost penniless, in the streets of New York. My mother had a purse containing a few dollars, this she managed to slip in my hand, unperceived by my father, with a whispered word of en- couragement. I went to a kind old lady who had been employed as seamstress in our family, for years. She received me kindly, telling me I was welcome to share her home, as if I were her own child. "I had been there but a few days, when Charles having heard of my being driven from my father's house, and the cause, called   "FE IN WASHNGTON.' '        57 to see me. He now told his love, and asked me to become his wife. "I knew not what to do. My father had forbidden my mother or sister to speak to me. I could not return to my childhood's home, unless I would consent to accept the husband selected by my father. Thus unprotected and homeless, can you 'wonder that I became the wife of one I loved, and who is worthy the love of the noblest heart. We were married, and as my father did not permit the name of his self-willed daughter to be men- tioned in his presence, we hoped our marriage might remain  unknown to him, and Charles be permitted to retain his place, which yielded him a salary sufficient to support a wife comfort ably, though not luxurious$?: "We had been married about a month, when one day a friend came into the store and  asked Charles about his wife. My father happened to be present, and heard him; turning to Charles, he said: "'Ha, Charley married! You should- have told me this, and I would have increased your salary; your faithful services merit it, -and now that you have a wife to support, you will need it.' "'1 did not wish to trouble you with my affairs,' said Charles, fearing that he might inquire too closely about his wife. "'Why!   You know, Charley, I always took a warm interest in you. I hope you have a wife worthy of you?' -" 'I only wish I may be able to make her as happy as she deserves to be.'  "'You are a noble fellow, Charley, and worthy any woman's love. From this time forth I will add two hundred dollars to your salary.' "When Charles returned from the store that evening, and told me of this conversation, I felt anxious and uneasy. I knew, although my  father esteemed him very much, and wished to ad- Vance his interest, the moment he knew to whom he was mar- ried, he would be indignant, and dismiss him from his employ instead of increasing his salary. Such was the result. And sooner than I  anticipated, for Charles returned at noon the next   $58      - ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, day with a troubled look. To my inquiry as to the cause, he replied : "'Your father met me this morning with a kinder manner than usual, said he was glad I was married, and asked me the happy lady's name. I hesitated to reply.' "' Tut, tut; you are not ashamed to name her, I hope V' "I replied, I am not; but it is a name you have forbidden to be mentioned in your presence.'                // "4 Not my daughter?' said he. "' I answered it was; and in a moment his whole manner changed. He became furious, ordered me to quit his presence, and added, 'I will prevent you p;m., obtaining employ ient in the city.'         :- "Charles had at that time about five hundred dollars--this would support us but a short time : what to do we scarcely knew. Oh, what would I have given at that- time to have the privilege  of consulting my mother! Her feelings were with us. I dared not write to her, for my father had forbidden her to receive a letter or message from me. The next morning, u'hder the pre- tence of making calls, -she ordered the carriage and came to see me. She told us we would better ltave the cityt She advised us to come to Washington, and she would write a letter to a member of the cabinet, who was a cousin of hers, and endeavor to procure for Charles a situation in one of the departments. She wrote the letter, and we immediately left New York. "When we arrived in. this- city, Charles delivered the letter to the Secretary to whom it was addressed. He received him kindly, told him he would be very happy to oblige him, but just at this time he could not do anything for him, but would be able to give him a situation in a few weeks. Weeks, ay, months, slipped by, Charles was still unprovided for, but still fair plbt)- mises prevented him from seeking any other situation. A,  length our money was almost exhausted, and we must do somei thing: we could wait no longer for the fulfilment of the promise,  that had so long mocked the ear. Want was almost upon us, and Charles must take any situation that offered. He became salesman in a dry-goods store, at a very low salary. Our money   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         659 was so nearly exhausted we were glad to accept anything. Did those having the bestowal of offices know the injury applicants sustain by waiting thus upon their will, they would give a deci- sive answer at once-ye s or no. It would save much anxiety and loss of time.  "When Charles entered upon the duties of his place, and we knew just what we had to depend upon, we at once reduced our mode of living to our means. We rented the room we now occupy, furnished it plainly, and blessed with health and each other's love, we were happy. But we were not destined to remain so. I was attacked with a violent fit of illness; we were obliged to incur expenses that involved us in debt. Charles' employer, who was a hard man, would not advance one cent till it was earned. We had just paid the debt incurred during my illness, when Charles was taken sick.  Knowing the disposition of his employer, I dared not apply to him ; and, had it not been for your kindness, God only knows what would have been our fate." "I trust," said Annie, "your trials are now past; I will get my father to interest himself, and get a situation in one of the departments for your husband."' "No, no," said Charles, who had just come into the room and heard Annie's offer, "I thank you, Miss Grayson, for your kind offer, but I can never consent to wait upon the will of those hav- ing the appointing power again. Besides, I am sure such a situa- tion would notsuit me, because the faithful performance of my duty is no security that I will be retained. I have served an apprenticeship, as it were, to the mercantile business. It is mj  ambition to become a merchant, and if I could get a situation iJo the store of a liberal, high-minded man, that would just suit "I think I can assist you in this, I trade with such a merchant. I know more than one merchant who, from being clerks in his store, were enabled by his advice and assistance to engage in business for themselves, and are now prosperous and respected." "Could you assist me in procuring such a place, you wotd addle very great favol -to the many already conferred." : ie   s words were not a mere promise, but so warmly did:: "' w .. - .!   60        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, she interest herself, that when Charles' health was perfectly re. stored, she had procured him a situation in Claggett's store, and so well pleased was his new employer with his capacity for and his attention to business, that he gave him a high salary, and entrusted to him the management of the most important transactions. Since that time, fortune has smiled upon him; and now he often laughingly tells his friends he is thankful for the disap- pointment that met him when he first came to Washington. It made him independent, and he now has no fears of a change of administration, least he should lose his means of support. * .       *         .t'       * ,, ./ He f,.   "FE IN WASHNGTON.          6 CHAPTER VII. MANCEUVERING OF A WASHNGTON BELLE. WASHNGTON is thronged with strangers. The grave statesman, j   the'wily politician, the pleasure-seeking man of wealth-all are fixi here.  The season is an unusually gay one. The most beautiful and accomplished ladies from all parts of theUnion, grace with their presence the Federal City, and the resident beauties vie with the strangers, who shall attach to themselves the greatest F   number of distinguished admirers. Foremost among these was Clementina Wilkie. It is the week previous to the first assembly of the season, and the fairer portion of the -beau monde are as busy and as much puzzled in making a proper selection of rib- bons, laces, and jewels to adorn their fair persons, as politicians are, in plotting and counter-plotting, previous to nominating a candidate for the Presidency. The beauty says, much depends on the impression I make at the commencement of the season, whether 1  shall be a brilliant star in the firmament of fashion, during the winter. The politician says, should I commit myself to the support of some one who will not receive the nomination, it will be a fatal blunder. In that case there willI-be no prospect for me, of a seat in the cabinet, or a mission abroad. Oh, Washington is a miniature world in itself. You may here see vanity, pride, ambition, avarice, and every passion that ani- mates the human bosom, exhibited in all their phases. How- ever, I do not intend to generalize, but to speak of individuals. It is one of those pleasant sunny days which are so frequent \ s o.1K .    62.        ANNIE GRAYSON; ORt in this climate during winter. Clementina Wilkie is seated in the luxurious dlawing-room of her aunt, book in hand, seemingly absorbed in the perusal of its pages, but in reality she is plan- ning how she shall render herself the most conspicuous belle of the season. - In the midst of her reverie, she was aroused by the entrance of her aunt, who said :        . "Come, Clementina, don't sit here dreaming this lovely day, when everybody is out."        I  "What do I care for the common crowd!' said the ambitious i beauty. 6 True enough; but Imogen Delacroix is in the city, and you must call on her." "I do not think I shall; we were never particular fiends when at school." "But she spends the winter with the family of the Senator from Louisiana. That, with her immense wealth, will give her  i a distinguished position in society, and it is policy to seek her friendship."'  "Policy, how I hate the word." "Nevertheless we must practice it. Wealth alone will not give us the position you covet." "How humiliating to be obliged to court the society of those, whom I would fain trample under my feet. But order the car- riage, I will accompany you." The call was made, and Imogen, who was the same impulsive creature that- she had been when a school girl, after the first greetings were over, exclaimed: "How beautiful you are, Clementina, I am not surprised that Fred Leroux, who is such an admirer of beauty, is in raptures when he speaks of you." "Did you know Mr. Leroux, in Louisiana?" "Our plantations join, and many a play have we had together ; at the grand old place during the life time of his mother. My own mother died when I was very young. Mrs. Leroux, who was an angel of kindness, took me to her own splendid home, and was a mother to me until I was sent to Georgetown to the Academy, where I first knew you. And I spent the vacations   "FE IN WASHNGTON,         63 with her till her death. I loved Fred as dearly as if he were a brother." "Perhaps he is dearer than a brother," said Clementina, noting closely the countenance of Imogen. "Oh no, Fred would never think of making love to me, I am not sufficiently beautiful to satisfy his fastidious taste. And as for me, I have been so long in the habit of regarding him as a brother, it would be impossible for any other feeling to find a place in my heart." "Have you seen your old friends, Annie Grayson, Emma Carlton, and Ella Stanmore?" "Oh yes, I did not use any ceremony with them, I sent them my card immediately, but as you and I were not so intimate when at school, I did not take that liberty with you." "Well, I trust in future you will regard me with the same friendly feeling, that you entertain for them." "It is in my nature to love all with whom I associate. But from what I had heard of you, I was under the impression, that you could not stoop to interest yourself in any but persons of the highest order of intellect. I have heard you spoken of, as the most intellectual lady in Washington, and that our most distin- guished statesman thought it an honor to cultivate your acquaint. ance. But here you are chatting to me, just like any other young girl." "Yes, and enjoy your society more than I do that of those distinguished persons." Clementina had an object to accomplish, in seeking the friend. ship of Imogen. With her boundless ambition and utter selfish- ness, the most passionate love for Frederick Leroux, had taken possession of her heart. She read at a glance the frank and art. less character of Imogen, and learning the early friendship that existed between her and Fred, she thought she might use Imogen Ato further her designs. She felt that, with all her power of fas- cinating him when in her society, that she had no hold on his heart. After having made an unusually long and social call, she rose s Hle ^.yLX"- iiLliS . }R-   .   s .    "       ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, to depart, saying to Imogen, she expected to meet her at the assembly. To which Imogen replied: "Oh, yes, I shall enjoy the gayeties of the city this winter, with the zest of a school-girl fresh from the country. And as I am heart-whole and fancy free,. I shall watch the flirtations, which they say is carried on to a great extent in Washington society, with much interest." "And be caught in the meantime yourself." "Of course, provided I, with my want of beauty, can attract some one sufficiently to induce them to play the agreeable to me." When they returned home, Mrs. Parkinson said to her niece: "You seemed much pleased with your old schoolmate." ( She is a card I can use to advantage."  So I thought, or I would not have asked you to call. And as we are just winning our way to the highest circles of society, it is well to use every means to give ourselves a firm footing in that society. Your beauty and accomplishments, with my wealth, will do much, but it requires great tact to attain complete suc- cess." "Yes, but what has been done by others, can be done by us. Just let me manage it. Give superb dinners, and select parties. Give them often, but do n6t invite too many at once. Have no more than you can have attended to with comfort. If you would win favor by pampering the palate, and gratifying the appetite of persons, you must do it in a manner to enable them to enjoy your fine wines and delicious viands, without feeling incommoded or crowded. And besides, if a great number is invited, they feel that no honor is conferred-they are only one of a crowd. I have studied well the human heart, and know its weaknesses." "Well, you can have the command of my purse and house this winter, and you would better begin by making an elegant appearance at the assembly." "I will not neglect to do so." The-bonversation of this scheming pair was here interrupted by company, and among the visitors were Annie Grayson and her cousin. During the conversation, Clementina alluded to her visit to Imogen, expressing -much admiration of her amiability.   !            LIFE IN WASHNGTON.         65 "Ah, yes," said Frederick, "she is one who will win the friendshiP of all who know her, she is so unselfish and single- ' That seems to be the most striking trait of her character." "It is; and I shall take much pleasure in noting the impres- sions city life makes upon her. Hitherto, when not at school, her life has been spent in the country." "I shall take pleasure in initiating her in city life." "I will do that myself, and will commence by waiting on her to the assembly."  The evening of the assembly arrived. The spacious hall was filled with beauty and talent. The representatives of foreign nations were there glittering with jewels. But at one side of the room engaged in conversation, is the Marquis B  ,the nephew of the French minister, Frederick Leroux, Imogen and Clementina. "Angelic! Beautiful! Lovely!" burst from the lips of the Marquis.        -              o "What is it, that has called forth such enthusiastic admira- tion?"-said Frederick. "See that beautiful girl. Can you tell me who she is?" Looking in the direction indicated, he saw his cousin standing a short distance from him. "That is my cousin, Miss Grayson." I have heard nly aunt speak of her; I -should be happy to "I will take the liberty of presenting you, if you wish it." "Who   would not wish to be presented to such a vision of loveliness?" He was presented, and ere the evening closed, he had drank jeep draughts of love. Her voice thrilled his being , vibrating on his heart-strings like a strain of sweet music. Ella Stanmore, too, was there with her pure lo ing heart and her dovelike eyes. It was not often she was seen in society. Her brother, when he went west, had wished her not to mingle in gayeties of Washington society. But M r. Belmont had ar- rived in the city a few days previous, and insisted she should t12.4 J AE 9F . . . d . . x 6 t v   "        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, accompany him. Mrs. Stanmore had consented with reluctance to her going. Ella had never looked more lovely. This was the first time Clementina had seen her in company with Fred Leroux since Annie's party. She watched her with a jealous eye. Towards the close of the evening, when Fred was dancing with Ella, Imogen came near Clementina, saying: "I never knew Ella was so beautiful; her whole appearance is changed by the music and excitement. And with what grace she moves through the dance! I had always thought of her as one too pure, too good, to mingle in such scenes, but it adds to her beauty. See what a rich glow is on her cheek, how her eyes beam with pleasure! I think Fred had discovered she is beauti- ful, from the look of admiration with which he regards her." Had Imogen observed the look of dark malignity that passed over the face of Clementina, at this remark, she would have trembled for her friend. The evening passed rapidly by, as is ever the case, when music and dancing call forth the joyous emotions of young hearts. Imogen had unwittingly roused the demon in the bosom of" Clementina, and she vowed in her own heart, that if the love of Fred should be given to Ella, she would come between her and the happiness of attaining his hand. "No, no," said -she in the silence of her own chamber, " if I cannot win him myself, she shall never be the- mistress of his bright southern home. I know every weakness of his heart, and I can prevent him from making her his bride. But I will let the poor child drink draughts of love till his smile is necessary to her existence, and then I will dash the cup of happiness from her lips, even if it caused her heart-strings to break, and cast a shadow on his life. But I must be wary, none must suspect the proud Clementina stooped to bestow her love where it was not returned. Yes, he loves her. Every glance of his eye denotes it, and' his voice, when speaking to her, has a gentler cadence, a tenderer tone. 'Tis strange what he can see in her, to attract him. Well, he will never wed her. If my disappointment is bitter, my revenge will be sweet. Ha, ha, she dare to come between me and happiness! We will see."   j            LIFE IN WASHNGTON.         67 True enough, Clementina could not see what attracted him, for she could not appreciate Ella's pure, truthful heart. With all her deep knowledge of human nature, she had yet to learn that it requires heart to call up the purer, better emotions of man's nature. Grace, beauty, intellect, accomplishments, will excite his admiration, interest his mind; and when he wishes a companion for an evening, or to while away a leisure hour when time lags, he will seek such; but when he wants a companion for life, he will seek a true heart and gentle nature-not one whose whole soul is absorbed in a round of dissipation and gayety, and whose sole desire is to be the leading star in these scenes. It is not such as these that make the happiness of the domestic circle, though they shed a brilliance on society. Ella was seldom seen in society; but often would Fred, when wearied with the excitement and heartlessness of the gay world, spend a quiet evening in the unpretending home of Mrs. Stan- more. And the earnest, truthful nature of Ella, contrasted with the sparkling wit and showy acquirements of Clementina, caused him to enshrine her in his bosom as the bright dream of his life. Often, too, did he meet there a few friends, and enjoy that interchange of sentiment which gives a real charm to life. The false glitter and desire for display, which characterize crowded assemblies and fashionable parties, were not found. The votaries of fashion did not condescend to visit this mansion. Sth, none but the refined and intellectual were met here, and impressions were made on more than one heart that gave a tinge to their future destiny. Yes, even in Washington, where, to the stranger and superficial observer, all seems glitter and false show, there are homes to be found where intellect, refinement, and all the accomplishments that beautify and polish life, are united with heart and home home virtues.   68        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, CHAPTER VIII. A HOME-SCENE. A BRIGHT coal fire is burning cheerfully in the grate of Mrs. Stanmore's neat and comfortable parlor. The shutters are closed, the curtains drawn, and an air of quiet comfort pervades the room. Ella is seated beside- the centre-table looking over some beautiful engravings, whilst Mrs. Stanmore and Charles Belmont are engaged in conversation in another part of the room. "Let me take a superbly furnished house, as I intend remain- ing this winter in the city. I wish to see Ella enjoying all the advantages that wealth can give. I would like to see her the belle of every party." "No, Charles, Ella is happy. She does not desire to be con- spicuous; her happiness consists in the quiet enjoyment of the society of friends who love her. Her happiness is derived from the affections. And besides, I could never consent to mingle again in the gay world: I have fully tested it." ("As you please, Mrs. Stanmore; it was only for Ella's sake I proposed it. I am sure I enjoy the society of those few friends who assemble here occasionally, without any ceremony, far more than I would the most brilliant parties." "Yes, I too; because I know they visit us because they love us." "And I fear I shall learn to love some of them too much for my quiet. A pair of dark eyes haunt me strangely, and a soft voice makes sweet music in my leart." "Ah, Annie Grayson V" "Not she."   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         bu "It is well; for her mother is a vain, haughty woman, and she would have Annie  wed the MarquisB  whoisevidently de voted to her."       q     who is evidently de- "Yes, but Annie's heart is not his. I noted her closely the last evening they spent here. She loves him not." "I-e is all that would captivate a young gill. He has rank ang                       He has ranki and title, joined with a fine person, graceful manners, and a brow which bears the impress of his noble soul." "And yet she loves him not." "The human heart is a strange thing." "That is true, as I can well testify. For in my youth I was so absorbed in making money, that love never stirred my bosom; but now, that I have grown to be almost an old man, a fair girl, fifteen years younger than myself, interests me much, and the sound of her voice makes my heart bound with an emotion it Ilnever knew before." "Well, woo and win this maiden to be your own." 'What, I win Emmna C'arlton, the gifted, the beautiful? No, no, that cannot be. My mission shall be to watch over El]a's hlappiness, and that of my own sweet sister. The time is past fi)r me to indulge in love dreams; but if I can contribute to the happiness of you and yours, that will be a pleasure." "Whly not win Enlma? she is a noble girll; and although when in society she seems one of the giddy thoughtless butterflies of fashion, she has a  true heart. I have seen her in the wretched abodes of poverty, holding the cooling draught to the parched lips, and bathing the fevered brow of the lowly mother; and when she had attended to her, she would soothe with some sweet song the restless, fretful babe, that the wearied mother might ob- tain sonle repose. Although she has not money to dispense with liberal hand, like Annie Grayson, still, she is looked upon by many poor families as an angel of mercy. She will be a blessing and a  joy to him who wins her love." "'Tis not for me. But I will spend one winter in Washington, m  ingle in its excitements, and give my spirit to its pleasures, and then return to my Southern home, where business will rouse my   70        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, spirit from unrealized dreams. I have been a wanderer so long, I cannot be content to remain long in one place." Whilst they were thus conversing, Elmma, her mother, Annie Grayson, and some other friends, came in to spend a social even- t  ing. After being seated, Annie said: "Dear Mrs. Stanmore, you know, when we are weary of frivolity and gayety, we come to spend an evening with you. There is something in the atmosphere of your home that calls up the purer, better feelings of our natures. Emma sings mosre sweetly; I feel a truer appreciation of life; and even the grave Mr. Belmont unbends from his dignity, and tells us of scenes and incidents of the sunny South, that makes me wish to see that country." "Then, let us make up a party," said Charles Belmont, " and visit it." "Not now, at some future time." "Never put off for the future: we know not what changes a year may make." ":None, I trust, in this dear circle of friends, save an increase of happiness." "Enjoy the present," said Mrs. Stanmore; "the future is in the hands of the all-merciful disposer of events, and should it bring sorrow to any heart, he will, I trust, enable us to bear it. We cannot always expect a cloudless -sky ; but let us injoy the sunshine while it lasts." Conversing thus, an hour passed by, when Mrs. Stanmore turned to Annie, saying: "I have an additional inducement to draw you to mny hearth stone. Charles has a fine Spanish guitar, and he sings equal to any Spanish lover.'.' "Nay, Mrs. Stanmore, your kindness would invest me with accomplishments I do not possess. I brought the guitar for Ella. Music is to me one of life's best gifts. It makes the heart more joyous in its hours of mirth, and it soothes it when oppressed with sorrow. I have deeply felt its influence. And Miss Carl. ton must try Ella's guitar, and give us one of her own songs." "will, provided you will favor us with a song afterward."   "FE IN  WASHNGTON.           71 "It shall be done, although wanting the inspiration with which you are gifted." "What shall be the theme?" "Select it yourself." Taking the guitar, she ran her fingers over its strings, and drew from it a soft, sweet strain of music, and then sang: A maiden with heart as light as the breeze, That tosses her golden hair, Is sitting beneath a rustic porch, And singing a quaint old air. Oh, yes, her spirit is glad and gay, ' For its depths have ne'er been stirred [By a dream of love, or a pang of grief, And she singeth as blithe as a bird. A  year hath passed, and now behold That maiden young and fair, 'Neath a  star-lit sky upon that porch, And another form is there. And words of deep and lasting love Are whispered in her ear, But they're whispered by a tfaithless tongue; Oh, maiden beware, beware. Another year has quickly sped, We'll look on that scene again; Ah, wending now from that rustic porch, Is a  mournful funeral train. The love of that pure and gentle girl, To a  faithless lover was giveni, Though she murmured not, her heart-strings broke, And her spirit found peace in Heaven. 'Why, Emma," said Annie,   "what put such a   sad strain into your head? We wanted something gay." "I cannot tell you, Annie, what put it into my head, but I   took the guitar into my hand, determining to sing the first thing  that occurred to me, and that is it." "Were I    superstitious, I should think it boded some of us evil." Ere    a year had p assed, the tho ught o f Emma 's song crossed more than  - one heart with  a feeling that it had been prophetic. ,                   .q   72        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, For the voice of one of those friends was hushed. She, that was the gentlest and dearest, no longer formed one of that circle. A love tale had been whispered, waking echoes of sweet music in her heart. Nor was it whispered by a faithless lover; but the wiles of an artful woman turned her joy to bitterness, and her heart-strings broke, leaving a shadow for life upon a heart. Yet, in the meantime, many happy hours were passed beneath the roof of Mrs. Stanmore ; and in many a gay scene did the friends, together assembled this evening, mingle. With what pride did Mrs. Carlton behold the entree of her daughter into the most distinguished circles, and the admiration she elicited. But she was doomed to learn the value of these sunshine friends. And how bitter was the lesson. The winter sped brightly by. But with the spring came a severing of those friends whose hearts were so joined together. Fred Leroux, accompanied by Imogen and his cousin, visited his bright southern home. Charles Bel- rmont went -to the west. The Marquis B , who had remained in Washington during the winter, took a tour through the Northern States, visiting the romantic scenery of the Hudson, and the beautiful St. Lawrence. Of all the pleasant group who were in the habit of meeting at Mrs. Stanmore's, none were left. but Emma. The summer mlonths passed quietly away. Emma and Ella, though obliged to remain in the city, derived much pleasure froln the letters received from Annie. They were ex- pecting her return, with happy hearts; the fashionables were returning to the alrmost deserted city, and Mrs. Carlton was, an- ticipating the pleasure of a second gay winter, when her bright hopes were dashed to earth, by the sudden death of her hus- band. He was ill but a few days, yet, from the beginning of his ill- ness, he felt he should -die. The thought of leaving his helpless family, gave death its sharpest pang. But Ite knew Emma's strength of character, and just before his death, he called his daughter to him, and deeply regretting the false pride that had induced him to live up to the extent of his salary, he said: "But, my darling child, I depend upon you, to sustain your mother under this heavy affliction. The education you possess,   "FE IN WASHNGTON.          73 will enable you to procure a support. Little did I think, when I was so proud of your talents and acquirements, that you would be obliged to use them to earn a support. But a trust in God will enable you to endure the trials he sends." Having said this he sank exhausted on his pillow, and death soon released him. I    Friends came to offer comfort and assistance. The funeral St services were conducted in a style befitting the circle in which he t:  had moved when in life.  He was followed to his last resting place, by a train of carriages filled with genteel friends, but the use of these carriages had to be paid for by the widow and orphan adding a considerable item to the already heavy expenses in-  curred.  Yet the carriages must be provided, or it will show a want of respect to the memory of the deceased.  The funeral is over. The friends retire to their respective homes, leaving the bereaved ones to loneliness and sorrow. Mrs. Carlton seemed to have yielded to despair. She retired to her own  room, threw herself on her bed, and gave way to a violent fit of weeping, exclaiming.  "Oh, Heaven! what will become of us, no prospect, no hope for the future, all is darkness, wretchedness, poverty." Poor Mrs. Carlton, there was indeed no hope for her. She had given her whole soul to worldly pleasure, and now in a moment as it were, it had been snatched from her grasp. Dark indeed was the future to her. Not so with Emma; although she had shone conspicuous in the world of fashion, in her heart there was a living principle of piety, and now in'the hour of her sorrow and trial, she felt, that He who careth for the sparrows, would not forsake her. She turned her thoughts to the future sadly, but calmly. She, too, retired to her room, not to give way to a paroxysm of grief, but to collect her thoughts, and raise her voice to God in its quietude and stillness. Throwing herself upon her knees, she communed with her own spirit, and with her Heavenly father. She rose strengthened and comforted. Poor child, she now turned her thoughts to making some ar- rangement for the coming winter. It is a  dark autumnal-eve.   74        ANNIE GRAYSON '; OR, The winds sigh mournfully through the streets and avenues. So- absorbed is she in her own thoughts, that she notes not that it is growing dark, till the servant enters to know, if she would have the lamp lighted. Thus called from her sad reverie, she thought of Lelia, her only sister, a sweet child of about six summers. Looking round for her, she saw her sweetly sleeping on the sofa. "Happy childhood," said she, " that cannot realize the deep bereavement we have sustained, and if my exertions can prevent it, she never shall realize it to its full extent." Stooping, she kissed the fair brow of the child, and threw her- self by her side, and ere she slept, she had determined on the course to be pursued. They had not even -the money to pay the funeral expenses, but they owned the elegant furniture with which the house was furnished. This must be disposed of, the house must be given up, s5ivants dismissed, and every expendi- ture lessened. The money, derived from the sale of the furni- ture, will, after paying the demands against them, support them until she can do something herself. Ah, what is this something to be done? That too, she had thought of. How rapidly the mind thinks when thrown upon its own resources. She would give music lessons, take as many pupils as she could attend to, giving them lessons at their own homes, as she would, be obliged to sell her own instrument. When she had thus, in her own mind, made these arrange- ments, she went to her mother's room, designing to tell her of her plans, thinking grief would weigh less heavily upon the heart, when the spiri't-is roused to action. When she went to her chamber, she found her asleep. Exhausted by the violence of her grief, she had sunk into a heavy slumber. As Emma looked upon her sorrow-stricken countenance, and tear-stained cheek, she felt thankful' that she had found oblivion for a few short hours, and thought it would be cruel to awaken her. She, therefore, threw a covering over her, that she should not take cold, and placed a shaded lamp upon the hearth, that her mother might know when she did awake, that she had been there. Having done this, she returned to the parlor, took Lelia from the sofa, and sought her own pillow. Through the lone watches of this   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         76 weary night, did Emma learn the true worth of her religious faith. The next morning she rose with a resigned, if not a cheer. ful countenance. She went immediately to her mother's room, and found her just awake. To her inquiry of how she felt, she replied: "Perfectly wretched, my heart is utterly crushed : what are we to do?"     "to I have thought it all over, dear mother; rise and take some T'9  breakfast, and then I will tell you my plans, and if you approve them, we will put them immediately into execution." "If you can collect your thoughts sufficiently to form any thing like a definite plan, pray act upon it, for my brain is so distracted I cannot think." When they had taken their breakfast, Emma told her mother her plans, to -which she listened abstractedly,- and when she had finished, she said: "I suppose, necessity will oblige us to pursue that course, but rS   'tis too bad, that you, who were such an ornament to society,    should be obliged to earn your own bread. I wish Hannah Wilempr and her husband were here, they would assist us." "But as they are not, we must think and act for ourselves." For Ai few days, friends called with the pretence of offering advice and comfort, but in reality to learn what they designed to do, as the following remarks, of a lady who had just returned from visiting them, and who had been profuse in her expres- sions of sympathy, will prove. "I presume, that vain Mrs. Carlton will not cut such a figure this winter as she did last. That paragon of a daughter .of hers, instead of flourishing at parties, this winter, will have to earn her bread. It is astonishing how people who are dependent upon a pitiful salary, will attempt to maintain a position in the higher circles. But they generally pay for their folly, as in this instance. I must say, I am not sorry for themn."  The lady who made this remark, had three marriageable daughters, all very plain-looking, and not remarkable-for mental attainments or graceful accomplishments. Their father had con- siderable wealth, but as he had a large family of children, his I,   76        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, daughters were not considered worth sufficient property to make them objects of matrimonial speculation; and notwithstanding the expensive jewelry with which they decked their persons, and the constant manceuvering of their mamma to make them con- spicuous, they had never created much sensation in society. Therefore she felt gratified that Emma, who, the preceding winter, had been such a brilliant star in the world of fashion, should now be obliged to labor for her support. Winter was near at hand. - Annie Grayson had not yet"re- turned to the city. Emma had disposed of their furniture, set- tled in an humble house which contained only two rooms, but these were comfortably and plainly furnished. When this was done, Emma gave notice, through the columns of the several papers published in the city, that she would give music lessons to a few pupils, with a request that those requiring her service would address her through the post-office. She did not doubt but she would obtain any number of pupils, as her musical performances had been so much admired, and she knew not, that the very act of being obliged to use those talents, would, in the estimation of many, depreciate them. Poor child! she was destined to learn 7a new chapter in life. Hitherto, she had only walked in its pleasant paths; but now, she must experience the pressure of poverty and the mortification of cold neglect from those who, in her happier days, were solicitous of cultivating her friendship. But nobly did she pass through the ordeal.   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         " r              CHAPTER IX. A NEW CHARACTER. IT is a dark, chilly, November day. The rain patters on the roof. The avenue, which, at this season of the year, when mem- ;  bers of congress with their families are daily arriving, is usually thronged, has no one on its side-walks to-day, save those whose business and occupations are such that they are obliged to go forth, notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather. The day is dark and cheerless, causing a deeper shade of care to settle on Y   the brow of the poor widow, who is obliged to-support the father- less little ones who nestle around her by the use of her needle. There are many such here: God help them-!  The near ap- proach of winter fills the heart of the widow with sad forebo- dings, as she calculates the increased expenditures she will be obliged to make for fuel and lights. For the shortness of the winter days, and her increased expenses, will oblige her to toil beyond the midnight hour, or her little ones may not have bread. Whilst the widow's eye grows dim with the scarcely repressed tear-drop, that of the wealthy fashionable sparkles with delight it  at the anticipated pleasures of the coming gay season. To this class belong Clementina and Mrs. Parkinson, as seated in their luxuriously furnished parlor, they are planning how they shall surprise their friends by the increased elegance of their entertain ments the ensuing winter. While thus occupied, a servant brings in the letters brought by the morning's mail. Clementina took them in her hand, and looking over the addresses to see from whence they came, she said, as her eye rested for a moment on each:   78        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, "Here is one from Louisiana, that's from Imogen. One from New York; this is from Mrs. T., the wife of the Senator; but who in creation. is this from?" exclaimed she, as her eye rested on a coarse, soiled bit of paper, folded somewhat after the fashion of a child's -thumb-paper, upon which was scrawled, in an almost illegible hand, "Misses Clementina Wilkie." "Where is it from?" asked her aunt. Looking at the post-mark, which she with some difficulty deci- phered, for it seemed that the post-master was less proficient in the art of writing than her correspondent. Finally she succeeded in making out the name, and told her aunt it was "Owl Thicket post-office, Illinois." !"Well, I do declare; who could have written it?" "I really cannot imagine." "Do open it, and let us see." Clementina opened it, and, turning to the signature, read aloud to her aunt, '"Jenny Lumpkin." "Jenny Lumpkin," repeated Mrs. Parkinson, "who can she be, and how came she to write to you?" "Don't you remember, aunt, that after you were married and came to Washington, your sister Betsy was married to Dave Lumpkin?" "Certainly, I remember that," "Well-, Jenny is her oldest daughter." "Do read the letter, and let us hear how they are; Betsy's my sister, if she is a poor woman." Clementina commenced reading, and as she proceeded, her brow grew dark with displeasure. When she had concluded, she threw down the letter, exclaiming: "Horrible! oh, horrible!" "What is the matter?. Is Betsy dead 2" "No, worse than that." "WIV/at is it?" "Why, Jenny is coming to spend the winter with us, and she'll be here in a few days." "You frightened me; I'm sure that's not worse than Betsy's death."   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         79 "Just read that letter, and I guess you'll think so." Mrs. Parkinson took the letter, and read the following original production:     "MY DEAR COUSIN,- "I hadn't hearn from yu for sich a long time, that I had a'most furgot yu; but when Misses Sticklin, the wife of our congress member, came from Washington last spring, she told us how purty yu wus, and what sights of sweethearts yu had. I told mammy I was bound to go to Washington, to visit Aunt Par- kinson, too, to see if I could not get lots of sweethearts, as well as yu. Yu know whenl we were both little gals, I was reckoned purtier than yu.. "Mammy and daddy-both agreed I might go, if Missess Strick- lin was willin' to let me go along with her. Well, I posted strate over to see her, and ax her if I might go. She told me, sartainly, that she would be very glad to obleege me. And well she might, for it was owing to daddy's 'lectioneering so strong for her husband, that she got to Washington herself.. You see, daddy bein' an old residenter in these parts, he's a powerful favorite with the nabors, and he got 'em all to vote for MrI. Sturicklin; and it was, the strong vote of Owl Thicket settlement that decided the 'lection in his favor. s"Now, I've hearn folks say, that some of these congressmen, who are so friendly and sociable at home when they want the 'e'  people to vote for 'em, when they get to Washington, they are so stuck up that if they \should meet one of these same men that they are so gracious with at home, they would hardly shake hands with them on the Avenue. I know Mr. Stricklin ain't one of them kind. "Mammy says as how she reckons Aunt Lucy would like to know how we come on. Well, we are rather poor yet, but I think, now that Bill and Jo are able to do almost a man's work,  we will begin to pick up, and get better off. However, for all we ain't rich, I've got a power of money to git finery with, when I get to Washington, and I'll tell you how I got it. Last spring, j when daddy told mammy I might come to see you, if we could   80        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, raise the money to fetch me, you see daddy never makes any money himself, because he is a politicianer, and ain't fond of work, but spends his time talking pollyticks. Well, mammy told me I might have all the money I could save from market- ing, after paying for the tea and coffee. Besides this, she give me all the money I could earn by weaving; most all the neigh- bors have to hire their weaving done, because they have no looms, Well, here was a great chance, and to work I went, and I made every edge cut, I tell you. Alid I'll tell you, I managed. In the first place, when I made the coffee for breakfast I put in one'spoonful less than I had been doing; so, by this means, I made a pound of coffee last as long as possible. In the next place, instead of giving them the rich cream for their coffee, I gave them new milk; so I could make more butter to sell. Bill and Jo grumbled enough about it, but I did not mind them. I was getting along finely, laying up money fast; but now comes bad luck. In the midst of harvest, poor Crumply dies; now Crump was the very best butter cow we had. Bill and Jo said it was-a judgement on me for my meanness about their coffee; that now I would not be able to save money enough to go Wash- ington, and they were glad of it. But I tell yu, I'm not a gal to give up and cry ' over spilt milk' or the milk of a dead cow either. So, instead of being down hearted, I worked the harder, -weaving eight yards a day instead of six; what I lost in market- ing I gained in weaving. That's the way to git along in this world; when one string breaks pull another. Never fear I'll 'hoe my row' through the world. My expenses in' coming, won't be anything, for I'm going to nuss Mrs. Stricklin's baby on the way; so she won't have to hire a nuss, and she's going to pay my expenses, and I'll have the whole of my money to spend. Won't thirty dollars git lots of finery? But I'll just finish my letter, as I'll be there nearly as soon as it, but I thought I'd write to let you know I was coming. "Your loving cousin, ; JENNY LUMPKIN." "Nota Bene.-Since I finished my letter I've seed Mrs. Strick lin, and she says may be Aunt Lucy don't want me to come to   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         81 see her, being I'm a plain country gal,Kand she's so fashionable. Well, I told Mrs. Stricklin I was bound to go any how, and if aunt dident want to see me, I would nuss for her; so I'll stop at the tavern with Mrs. Stricklin, till I know whether aunt wants to see nle. "J. L." e    When Mrs. Parkinson had finished reading this letter, she looked at Clementina with blank amaze for some time, and then said in a troubled voice: "Well, what are we to do?"  "That is more than I can tell,"' replied her amiable niece. "But I wish all1 their cows had died as well as Crumply, and herself into the bargain, before she thought of coming here." 's Yes, but as she is coming, something must be done. It won't do to let her remain as nurse with Mrs. Stricklin, and have per- sons remarking: 'There's the cousin of the accomplished Clem- entina Wilkie.' I suppose we will be obliged to bring her home, s    and keep her out of sight as much as possible." "Judging from her letter, I am inclined to think that will not be easily done; she seems to have a pretty good opinion of her- self, and an independent spirit. She is coming to participate in city gayeties, and make conquests; therefore, it is not likely she will consent to have her beauties kept out of sight." "When we see her, we will then determine what course to pursue." "I wish these congressmen were not so much afraid of their constituents atd home, and then Mrs. Stricklin would not have brought her." Cl1mentina was altogether mistaken, when she supposed Mrs. Stricklin had brought her Cousin Jenny to Washington, for fear of losing the vote of Owl Thicket settlement for her husband in the next election. The true motive:was to revenge herself on Clementina, for remarks made the previous winter. Mrs. Stricklin was one of those impulsive, warm-hearted, western ladies, who would not acnform her deportment to the rule and dlummet of the fashion. *"   82        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, able etiquette of Washington. Clementina had made the re- mark, which had been repeated to her' that she was surprised a gentleman of Mr. Stricklin's talents, should have permitted his wife, who was so ignorant of the usages of refined society, to accompany him to Washington. When it was told her, she re- plied: "I will, next winter, bring a cousin of hers with me, that she may teach her refinement and the usages of good society." It was to mortify Clementina, that she brought Jenny. Two or three days after the reception of Jenny's letter by Miss Wilkie, Mrs. Stricklin arrived in the city, and stopped at Brown's Hotel. At Jenny's request, she sent a note to Mrs. Parkinson, informing that lady of her arrival. She had become so much attached to Jenny, that she was anxious to retain her as nurse, and hoped the proud aunt would not recognize her as a relative. But Mrs. Parkinson was too politic for that. The note had been dispatched but a short time, when a carriage was at the door of the hotel, with a request that her niece should come immediately to her aunt's mansion. Jenny bade Mrs. Stricklin adieu with a sad heart, telling her she would come to see her often, and if she saw her aunt and cousin were not pleased with her, she would return, and stay with her until she returned home. When she arrived at her aunt's, it was near dark. As she looked round the richly-fur- nished room, and received the supercilious greeting of her cousin, and the scarcely kind one of her aunt, her heart grew heavy in her bosom, and when, at an early hour in the evening, she retired to her room, she exclaimed: "What a fool I was to leave my own home, to visit relatives who are evidently sorry that I come. I am sure there is more heart-happiness in my own humble home, than here. I shall ex- perience many a sad and weary hour ere I return. I left it in a spirit of gladness, thinking what a grand thing it would be to see something of the world, and already I am home-sick. But, as I am here, I'll make the best of it. Go to see the President, Sena- tors, all the curiosities of the city; for, after all, it was a desire to see these, more than my relatives, that brought me. So, I   "FE IN WASHNGTON. 8- need not feel so much disappointed that they receive me coldly.' Putting her hand in her pocket, to draw forth her handkerchief to wipe a tear from her eye, that had unconsciously gatherec there at the thought of home, her hand came in contact with the purse containing her hard-earned money. A smile passed ove her face, as she remarked: "How rich the contents of this purse made me feel when#a home, and how much finery I thought it would buy, but here when I look upon the rich dresses of my aunt and cousin, i seems like nothing, so after all, people are rich or poor by corn parison. At home, this sum made me very rich, whilst here i is nothing. But I won't let that trouble me, for 1 can see an( hear as wellin a calico dress as silk, and I intend to make use o my ears." She need have given herself no thought of her wardrobe, fo she had scarcely lWft their presence, when Mrs. Parkinson begai to consult Clementina, as to what she should purchase for her, t, make her passable. "Well, Clementina, what do you think of her " was Mrs Parkinson's first remark. "She is not quite so outlandish as I feared she would be, fron her letter, but she won't do to present to our friends." "Of course not, if we can help it, but for fear she may insis on it, I will immediately furnish her wardrobe, becoming a niec( of mine, who is in my house." "I would not purchase anything very expensive, she is no used to it, and will not expect it; really, it would look; out of place on her." "I'll depend altogether on your judgment." Whilst Clementina and Mrs. Parkinson were discussing the arrange ent of her wardrobe, Jenny was sleeping sweetly, ant dream,  f chasing the butterfly over the prairie, as ,she ha( often done in childhood's happy day. When she awoke the next morning, she felt much refreshed and possessing a naturally cheerful disposition, and buoyan spirit, the feeling of depression of the preceding evening had   84        AlNIE GRAYSON; OR, passed away. She arose, made her toilet, and then after putting her room in order, she went down into the parlor, expecting to meet her aunt. Finding no one there, she examined the elegant %furniture to her heart's content. When she tired of this, she threw herself on a sofa, and commenced singing in a loud but, musical voice, the ballad of Barbara Allen. Whilst she was in the- midst of her musical performance, Miss Wilkie entered. Jenny was so much engaged with her song, that she did not ob- serve her entrance, and as a matter of course, continued her music. Clementina placed her- hands on her ears, and gazed at her, with indignation the most intense depicted on her coun- tenance. Regarding her thus a moment, she approached her, saying: "You will be kind enough to cease your singing, it distracts my nerves." "' Nerves, well I declare now, if that aint- too bad, to hear a young woman complaining of her nerves." "I presume you are never troubled in that way?" "No, indeed."  "Well in future you will be careful not to disturb every one in the house by your noise. If you cannot sleep yourself, you will remember others may like to take a morning's nap." "Certainly I will; if I've done wrong I'm very sorry. But I'm sure Barbara Allen is a mighty pretty song." "It may be to your uncultivated taste, but to refined ears it is horrible." Saying this she left the room, she repeated the words, "refined ears," and when Jenny found herself alone, in- dulged in a hearty laugh at the recollection of Clementina's atti- tude and countenance when she first observed her. About nine o'clock the breakfast bell rang, and Jenny met her aunt at the bieakfast table. She spoke kindly to her, and told her she must endeavor to act like a-lady and she should be dressed like one. Clementina maintained a dignified silence during the meal; and had it not been for the fear of giving pain to her aunt, whose few kind words had won her heart, she would, ere the close of   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         85 the day, have played some mischievous trick upon her stately cousin. For, although possessing a kind heart, she was as full of mischief as a light-hearted, mirth-loving girl could be. Could Clementina have foreseen the future, she would have treated Jenny with more kindness. 5 I -   i   86        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, CHAPTER X. "FE S CHANGES. "( WELL, Emma, two weeks have elapsed since you gave notice you would give instruction in music, and not a pupil yet. We shall perish this-winter if we don't get something to do soon." "Mother dear, don't get discouraged, keep a hopeful spirit. Our heavenly Father will not forsake us it we put our trust in Him.   He watches over us in mercy and kindness." "It is impossible for me to be patient. At first my pride revolted at the idea of your giving music lessons. Now, I would be thankful if you could get pupils. My pride is humbled by the fear of want." "Those who are willing to exert themselves, will always find something to do. I will -not wait any longer for pupils to come to me. I  will this morning call on our acquaintances-friends we have none since our misfortunes-and tender my services in person. They, perhaps, do not even read the notice I have given." Emma, as she proposed, called on several ladies whose daugh- ters she thought might become pupils of hers, but in every in- stance she met with disappointment. Some thought no person could give instruction in music but a foreign teacher, whilst others could not endure the annoyance of having their children take lessons at home. Wearied and dispirited, she thus communed with herself as she returned home : "How little do we know of life till we learn by experience! I imagined, when first I learned we would have to depend upon our own exertions for support, our greatest trial   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         87 would be to yield our position in society. I had no doubt but I 1.1   would be able to earn a competence by the exercise of my talents. I am now convinced such will not be the case. But I will not yield to despondency. Fortunately I was one of those who, whilst at school, learned to cut and make dresses. How often Sister Angelique told me I used the scissors and needle with as much dexterity as if I were obliged to earn my bread by their use. Little did I then dream such would be tte case! Oh, how lonely and friendless I feel! But I must not let my mother , t   know it, or she will sink under her sorrows. Nor must I cloud the bright, sunshiny brow of my darling Leiia, by permitting j   her to know how sadly my heart beats in my bosom. No, no; i    when in the presence of those cherished ones, I must have en- couraging words on my tongue, and a cheerful smile on my  .countenance. But, oh, how much I wish Annie Grayson were in J2   the city! I should then feel I had one friend, for she has a true Xf   -heart in her bosom that does not change with the changes of for- t    tune. To her I could speak of my sorrows, and they would weigh less heavily upon me." She was so absorbed in sad reflections, that she did not note a face in the crowd with which the Avenue was thronged. A hand was laid upon her shoulder, and, lookipg up, an ex. clamation of glad surprise escaped her lips, for Annie Grayson was by her side. "When did you return to the city V" inquired Emma. "This morning," was the reply. "I am so glad you have come! I was just wishing for you."' "And I was just going to see you; but having met you, you W -  must return with me, and we can, in the quiet of my own room, talk over all that has transpired since last we met." '"Deep sorrow and sad changes have been mine." "I have heard it all, and deeply do I sympathize with you." Conversing thus, they arrived at Mr. Grayson's proud mansion, and passed on to Annie's room. When they were seated, Annie said: "Now tell me, my dear friend, if I can in any way serve you,   88        ANNIE GRAYSON, OR, Speak to me as you would to a sister, I have ever loved you as such." Emma then told her all her plans for the future, how she had been treated with coldness, amounting almost to scorn, by those whom she had thought true friends. But now, having learned one lesson in the school of misfortune, she knew how to appreciate true kindness, which seemed so rare a quality. Annie told her she might consider herself fortunate, that she had not succeeded in procuring music pupils; that parents would have expected her not only to teach their children, but actually to have given a talent - for music to such as did not possess it. Whereas, in the capacity of dress maker, though she would find -some who would be difficult to please, yet it would be less an. noying than that of music teacher. "You shall commence your new vocation by making my winter dresses, and I will send you customers, sparing you the trouble and mortification of seeking them; for, notwithstanding all your good sense and philosophy, it is impossible to not feel some mortification to go to those with whom you have once mingled in social intercourse, and ask employment." "There is some truth in what you say, and I am truly grateful for your kind consideration." "You will find me ever the same. No change of circumstance can ever lessen my friendship for you." "I know and appreciate your noble heart, so unlike the great mass of those who flutter in the gay world. In the first days of my sad bereavement my thoughts turned to you." "Ah, would I had been near you in those sad hours!" True, 1 had the gentle voice of darling Ella to soothe my heart, with kind words and sympathy, but she is not one to strengthen the heart to brave life's trials." Acnie urged Emma   to stay and dine with her, but Emma knew her mother would feel lonely and anxious, if she did not return, therefore she would not remain. When she returned, the first word uttered by her mother, was, "Have you procured any pupils?" "I have not."   "FE IN WASHNGTON; OR,         89 " Oh! what will become of us, destitution, starvation, beggary is before us." '" Not so, mother dear, I have procured employment for you and myself. I will not now teach music," " What can we do ?" "5 Make dresses, and do any other sewing. I am delighted with our prospects. We will both be together; I will not be obliged to go from home in all kinds of weather, as would have been the case, had I procured music pupils." " But then it is too humiliating to see you obliged to stoop to make dresses for those with whom you once associated." " I do not feel my self-respect lessened. I am proud that I can thus earn my bread; and those whose good opinion is worth retaining, will respect us the more for our independence." " From whom did you obtain employment ?" " Annie Grayson." ': Ah! when did Annie return V' "This morning." "Where did you see her?" "I met her on'the Avenue." " How came she to offer you work ." Emma told her, and by her sound reasoning, reconciled her to her future plans. Time passed on, and Mirs. Carlton and Emma became the fashionable dressmakers of the city. They had more orders than they could attend to, and they would have been perfectly happy, but for the spirit of discontent that dwelt in the bosom of Mrs. Carlton. When all fear of actual want was dissipated, she then murmurred at the severity of her lot, that she must see her daughter, who was fitted to be an ornament to society, fill so humble a station. To these repinings, Emma would say: " Dcar mother, tam happy this winter, I feel that I am per- forming a sacred duty, in laboring for you and Leila. Last winter, I felt that I was not making a proper use of my -time. I was engaged in a constant - round of exciting pleasure, that never left me a moment for calm reflection. My evenings are now de- voted to instructing Leila, when my day's work is done; and I   4,   90        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, can assure you, I derive more pleasure from her prattle, than I did from the insipid gossip of half the butterflies that flutter in the drawing-rooms of fashion." " You may talk as much as you please, you cannot make me believe that a young girl like -you, can give up parties, and all the pleasures attendant upon them, without regret." Although at first Mrs. Carlton thought she never could be re- conciled to her changed circumstances, in time she became in- terested and content, and the rare bits of fashionable gossip, that she often heard, gave her a true knowledge of the value of firiend- ships that existed in the world of fashion. I will give one or two illustrations of the character of the conversations that fre- quently pass betweent ladies, when they happen to meet at the room of their dressmaker. You know the dressmaker is nobody, consequently her presence is no restraint upon the free expres- sion of their sentiments. Miss Watkins had called to see a dress, that is ornamented with a new style of trimming. Whilst she is waiting, Mrs. Elton, one of the most dashing and fashionable ladies of the city comes in. Miss Watkins is delighted to see her, kisses her with much affection, saying: "I feared you were sick, as I did not meet you last evening at Mrs. Bingham's. It was the most elegant party I -have attended in Washington, you should not have stayed away." "C I was not invited."' " You not invited ? I thought she and you were great friends ?" "We were, but my husband offended her lately, by asking about the health and prosperity of her father." " That was a strange thing to take offence at !" '" It was, but since her husband has become a distinguished man, and she a leader of the ton, she does not like -to have her early days recalled. At a party at one of the Secretaries a few evenings since, she was taking some extra airs on herself, and Mr. Elton asked her if her father kept tavern yet." " Her father a tavern keeper ?" " Yes, indeed, and one of the poorest kind; nobody stops with him, but drovers and wagoners."    :ii e          LIFE IN WASHNGTON.         91 "And now she makes such a display, and treats poor people as if they were scarcely. human!" I "Well, her father is poor enough." "It is strange how she ever came to get such a husband as Mr. Bingham." X"Mere accident. She was very pretty when a girl. Mr. Bingham was traveling in the West, and happened to fall sick at her father's house; she waited on him during his illness. When he recovered, he married her, took her South, and she has never visited her family since." This is one single specimen of many of the conversations that often occur in the dressmaker's-rooms. There is nothing like being occupied in some useful employ- ment to drive discontent from the heart, and Mrs. Carlton had almost ceased repining at the remembrance of her changed cir- cumstances, when one day, Clementiua Wilkie brought a dress   to be made, saying, she wished it made up- with much care, as it was to wear at Annie Grayson's birth-night party. P ^When she had left, Emma saw with regret, that her mother's 'rE brow grew dark, indicating the presence of unpleasant thoughts in her heart. At length she said: "It is no use, I can never bring myself to be content with this humble lot, this life of toil. And what makes it more galling, is to see the look of gratified triumph with which Clementina Wilkie, and such as she, order us to do their work. We, that last year were of the number invited to Mrs. Grayson's; you j were one of the most admired belles, and now, what are we -- Dress makers." "Mother, we have still muich to be grateful for; we, have health, and every comfort, With some true friends who feel an interest in our welfare. AnAie Grayson treats us with as much attention as she did previouds to our misfortunes." " Yes, but she takes care not to invite us to her party. To be sure, we would not go; but if she is so above the opinions -of society, why did she not invite us; we are the same persons we were last year, if our circumstances have changed. No, no, they   1 92        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, are all alike; some talk more kindly than others, but when it comes to acting, they are'all alike-all the slaves of fashion." Whilst she was thus venting her discontent, one of Mr. Gray- son's servants entered, and handed her a note. Opening it, she  found it was an invitation to the party. As she read it, a smile of gratification passed over her face, and she remarked: "I am glad Annie did send an invitation, for had she not, I would have lost faith in her, too. Not that I think of going, but  still it is a gratification to be remembered and treated with some  consideration." Annie called herself in the course of the day, telling Mrs. Carlton that she would send the carriage for herself and Emma, to bring them to her father's mansion on the evening of her- birth-day.                    -  "No, Annie," said Mrs. Carlton, "we will not give you that trouble, for we will not attend. Yet, I thank you for the offer,  it is gratifying to feel that one of our former friends is still true to us." "And to myself; for could a mere change of fortune make  I me forgetful or neglectful of a true friend, I would be unworthy the enjoyment to be derived from the friendship of such a noble heart as beats in Emma's bosom. No, no; the trials through which she has passed, has but shown her true worth, and instead of depreciating, has elevated her in my estimation." "How few are like you; were there more such, the struggles of the unfortunate would lose half their bitterness." Turning to Emma, Annie said: "I would be gratified if you would come; I have been so accustomed to your presence on my birth-day, that I shall feel  time is bringing changes, that will weigh sadly on my spirits.  Although you and Ella are so unlike, I have ever felt, since we all knelt at the same altar, and received the sacrament of bap- tism at the same time, that you were both twin spirits of my own." "Ella will be there, but I cannot possibly come. The death of my father is too recent, the sounds of mirth and glad music i would fall discordantly on my heart; and besides, I know too I -                s   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        93 well the opinions and usages of society, to expose myself to the unkind comments which my presence in a fashionable assemblage, situated as I am, would elicit." Time passed on, and Clementina, although surrounded by every luxury that wealth could procure, was far less happy than Emma. Her cousin Jenny had received an invitation to the party, and to Clementina's suggestion that she should not attend, as she was a stranger and would not derive any pleasure from the society of those she would meet there, she manifested her inde- pendent and determined character, by replying: "No, sir-ree, you don't -keep this child from that grand party; I come here to go see all the grand folks, and you don't fool me out of it." "Nobody will pay you any attention, and that will be morti fying." "Laus a me, I don't expect any of these fine city folks to notice me, but I can look at 'em, and tell about 'em when I go home, that's what I come for." "But they'll makefun of you." "They will, eh? Then, I'll make fun of them; I want to laugh, I hain't had a good hearty laugh since I come here: so if they want fun, I can make it for 'em. Laus, cousin Clem, you don't know me yet, you have not seen me in any of my high- falutin ways since I come here, case I've been kind o' home sick, but jest get me a going, if you want to see a wild colt." "I hope you will act with propriety, if not out of respect for yourself you will respect your entertainers." "I always respects them as respects me. But if they pokes fun at me, I guess I'll not jest keep my mouth shet and let 'em, and not say nothing." Cleinentina, finding she could not prevail on Jenny to forego the pleasure of attending the party, was miserable, fearing ridicule would attach to herself from her relationship to Jenny. But it is ever thus, in the absence of real, we give ourselves \  imaginary trouble.  ry2 / J     4via    "       ANNIE GRAYSON; OR,     X CHAPTER XI. BLIGHTED HOPES. FLOODS of light illumined the proud mansion of Mr. Grayson. Sounds of music are borne on the night winds, the joyous laugh and light jest fell from the lips of the young and gay, whilst those more advanced in life look on the festive scene, renewing, as it were, their own youth' by so doing. Mr. Grayson looks on his daughter with pride and love, as dressed in pure white, she moves among her guests endeavoring to promote the enjoyment of each. Prompted by that kindliness of heart, which was a predominating feature of her character, she was particularly attentive to Jenny, introducing her to several gentlemen and ladies, And to do Jenny justice, we must say she really looked well. Clementina Wilkie was magnificently dressed. Diamonds glittered upon her person, and the radiance of her dark eyes rivalled their brilliancy. As usual she was the centre of an admiringcrowd. Distinguished statesmen were attracted by the brilliancy of her conversation, whilst fashionable exquisites were drawn to her side, by the bril- liancy of her diamonds, and her reputation of being an heiress. Bright smiles wreathed her countenance, and sparkling thoughts, clothed in language of elegance, flowed from her lips. She was the envied of many a belle, but yet she was not happy, for Fred Leroux was not among those who were in her vicinity. She observed him on the opposite side near Ella Stanmore, her fair face was upturned to his, whilst from his dark' eyes flashed a light of love, not to be mistaken. Just at this moment, Imogen, who was spending the winter with Annie, said to Clementina: "See Fred, he perfectly idolizes Ella."   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         95 "Do you think so?" "I am sure of it, and I think when he next visits his southeren home, Ella will be his bride." "No, he will never wed Ella." "I know Fred well, and I can read every emotion of his heart in his countenance. I can see in every glance and tone that he is devoted to her." "That may be; but Ella will never be his bride." Time glided swiftly by, and Jenny, to whom the scene was new, enjoyed it much. If her cousin drew a crowd about her by her cultivation and elegance, Jenny attracted much attention, by her originality and want of cultivation. During the evening a gentleman who had been an amused listener to her remarks, offered her a glass of wine; she declined it sayging: "No, indeed, I never drinks anything." He insisted she should take it, remarking,- "You will be considered unfashionable and wanting elegant taste, if you refuse to drink wine." "But I belong to the temperance society." "Oh, that is when you are way out west; but whilst you are here, in the world of fashion, you should lay by such old-fashioned notions." "No, sir-e-e! I'll never be fashionable, if to be so I must sacrifice truth, and act contrary to my opinions of what is right." "How sacrifice truth?" "Why, to forfeit my pledge of temperance. And to tell you the truth, I think it would be well to have a temperance society here in the city." "Why, we have them for common folks; but you don't find any of the 'upper ten' belonging to them." "Well, I think some of the 'upper ten' would better belong to them. Why, I saw a gal the other evening- there, now, T said gal, and cousin Clem cautioned me so much about saying gal, because it would show my raisin. Well, it's no use making a fuss about it now it's out; and it's no use to pretend to be something you ain't, for people will see through your pretension.   ;96        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR0 I'm nothing but a plain country gal, and I'm not ashamed to own it; but, to please aunt Lucy and cousin Clem, I tried to act the fine lady, and you see I could not do it.--Well, as I was saying,  1 saw a gal the other evening drink a half dozen glasses of wine, ! and I tell you, her tongue went glib for awhile; now, if she had not been one of the upper ten, people would have said she was tipsy." "She was only animated; you know persons who go so much in society, need something to animate them, or they would be- :^ come languid."  "Would you like to see a sister of yours thus animated?  Our plain western folks would think it awful to see women ani.. . mated in that manner."                 ^  "Yes, but there is some difference between a woman and a i-! lady."                           :  "I do not understand the difference."  "A lady has weak nerves, and requires a little stimulant to strengthen her." "Yes, and the next time she will need a little more, and in the end she might not be able to do without it, or might not  know when she had enough. No, no; I will not drink wine,  fashionable or unfashionable."  Here a lady who was near, and had been listening to the above  conversation, remarked,-                  L1 "You advocate temperance so eloquently, you would better  give a few lectures upon the subject."  Jenny looked at her earnestly for a moment, and then replied, "I am not one of them folks what believes in women making ' public speeches." "Yes, but could you not be induced to give a few lectures in  consideration of the good you might do a?" "I do not think any good would result from my assuming a 4 position that it was never designed woman should occupy; but  still, if you think you would be benefited by hearing a lecture A from me, I will give one now, if you will listen to me, as an especial favor to you." The lady who had addressed Jenny with the intention of hav-    "FE IN WASl(TiTGTON.,        9% ing sport, concluded she would better leave her alone, as the laugh was likely to be against her. Whilst Jenny was enjoying herself, and: amusing those about 'er by her originality, a different scene was transpiring iny another part of the'house, that affected the whole future of one of the parties. How often, at these brilliant parties where all seems gayety, pleasure and happiness, many a by-scene occurs,that does not meet the public eye, but it may have an. influence on the future destiny of those engaged in it.. Ella Stanmore, whose heart was filled with a quiet happiness, that made her indifferent to the gayety around her, had quietly slipped into the conservatory, to indulge in a bright dream of the future,. which. seemed to her so full of bliss., Many plants and shrubs, natives of the sunny South, shed their fragrance around her, and as she stood beneath the branches of an orange tree, a. bright picture of a fair Southern home rose before here For it. was only the previous evening that Fred Leroux had breathed into her willing ear, in impas- sioned tones, words of undying love, and portrayed in glowing language his beautiful home in the South,. asking her to be the divinity to preside over this fair home, and shed sunlight on his path. She had listened with a thrill of delight, for she had learned to love him, with all her pure heart's devotedness. And it seemed to her it would be happiness almost equalling her dreams of    heaven, to be ever by his side, and listening to the music of his voice. She had not remained long indulging in this sweet reverie, which, the memory of his words of love called up, when the soft silvery voice of Clementina Wilkie, mingling with the deep manly tones of Fred Leroux, fell, on her ear.  Clementina had observed Ella enter the conservatory, and she had-drawn Fred there, that she might make him utter words which she knew      would fall on Ella's heart with a crushing weight, that would make his pulses stand still. And, oh, how rudely was that reverie broken by the following conversation  ! "'Tis too bad, there is no such thing as select. society in Wash- ington any more;. At    the houses of the most aristocratic, you  98        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, will probably meet daughters of washerwomen, seamstresses and all other common people, dressed up and showing them- selves off to captivate the gentlemen, thinking to make a good match, and secure a-handsome home."              i "I presume they do not succeed, for I would detect pretension  at once, were I to meet such." "' Well, suppose you should not, but were to fall in love with some fair creature whose mother had once occupied the useful post of washerwoman  " "That is supposing an impossibility." "Impossibility let it be; but we will suppose the thing pos- sible, that you should fall in love, and plight your troth to such a one, would you wed her, should the knowledge of such having been her position become known to you, just before the bene.-  diction of the priest were spoken?" "No, I would abandon her even at the foot of the altar. If I have an incurable weakness, it is pride of position. No one shall point to my wife, and say she was the daughter of a wash- erwoman, to bring the flush of mortification on my brow."  i "Yet men holding the highest positions, have married beneath them." "Then they were less fastidious than 1I. "But if you were deeply in love, ere you were aware of the fact, you would overlook that circumstance, as others have done." "No, I would tear her image prom my bosom, even if my heart-strings were torn asunder by the act; my pride could never yield to love. But, pshaw! how earnest I grow, as if there were a possibility of your supposition ever becoming a truth." Had Clementina dictat'ed his replies to her remarks, they 1 could not have suited her better, and they had produced just the effect she wished. They had extinguished every particle of hap- piness and hope in Ella's heart, and her first thought, when they had left the conservatory, was to get home. She felt that if she remained, her heart would burst, for it seemed that its pulsations had ceased, and every particle of blood in her body was settled  round her heart. She left the conservatory, and went to the dress. ing-room. Finding Annie's maid there, she asked her to go home   "FE IN WASHTNGTON.        99 with her, saying she felt unwell; and as it was but a few doors to her mother's mansion, she would not trouble any of the gen- tlemen to accompany her. Annie, who had missed her, and was- looking for her, came into the room just as she was leaving. Seeing her pale face, she said: "Ella, dear, you look as if you would faint; do have a glass of wine, and then let Cousin Fred see you home." "No, Annie, I do not feel faint, and I would not disturb your cousin; I feel a sudden sickness, but will be better as soon as I get into the fresh air." "But you do not know how ill you look." "I shall be well by morning; so good night, dear Annie." It was about eleven o'clock when Ella returned home. Mrs. Stanmore, who was waiting for hUr, was surprised that she came home so early. But when her eye rested on her pallid brow, her surprise gave way to anxiety, and, starting from her seat, she ex. claimed:  "Why, Ella, what is the matter with you; you look ill, very ill!" "Oh, mother! why did you ever stoop to take washing to sup- poit us when father died T" "Why do you ask me such a question "  "Mother, why did you not take boarders, as many others do V" "What is the matter You talk wildly; are you crazed ." "I believe I am, I feel strangely," said she, sinking on the sofa, and putting her hand to her brow. "But I was so happy, and these words fell on me so suddenly, turning all my bright dreams of the future to darkness, to despair;" and her voice was sad and plaintive as the last sigh of Autumn.        * Mrs. Stanmore threw her arms around her daughter, impressed a kiss upon her cold, pale brow, and burst into tears, saying: "Can you not tell me what troubles you, my child "  The sight of her mother's emotion, recalled the wandering senses of la, and she told. her of her betrothal to Fred Leroux, of her deep yve for him, and of the conversation to which she listened in the conservatory; "and as I listened" continued she, '      . i   100       ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, "I thought if you had only kept a boarding-house, as so many ladies do when deprived of their means of a support by the death of their husbands, I should not have felt thus humbled." "Listen, Ella," said the mother, "and I will tell you all my thoughts in the sad hour of my bereavement, and why I did not  keep a boarding-house. As soon as my mind was sufficiently  calm-for reflection, my first thought was,. How shall I support my helpless children T. The idea of a boarding-house occurred to  me, but as I looked on your fair young face, I said,: Ella will be  beautiful. In a boarding-house I cannot have her always under my own eye. She will be petted and praised; and ere her judgment is matured, her young heart will be filled with vanity and a love of admiration, which will render her a heartless creature of the world, instead of a true-souled woman.  "This consideration induced me to endeavor to earn my sup-  port by my needle. I tried it, and; found I could only earn a scant living by devoting every moment of my time to my occu. pation.  "In the days of my prosperity, I had always washed and done ] up my own muslins. It now occurred to me, that I would offer to do such work for a few ladies, knowing I could earn more in one day, by doing such work, than I could by the use of my needle in a week. I succeeded, beyond- my expectations, by de- voting two days in the week to washing and ironing muslins, which was not laborious, and the balance of my time to sewing, I was comfortable and independent. My mind was free from anxiety, and I had the entire evenings to attend to the moral and mental cultivation of yourself and Edwin. Never have I known happier hours than those pleasant evenings when my day's tasks were done, and I would note the gradual unfolding of the ! mental faculties of you and Edwin beneath my watchful care. I was happy in observing the purity and truthfulness of your cha- racter, whilst the manly independence and honorable aspirations of Edwin, gave promise that he would be all a fond mother's heart could wish. I thought not of the opinions with which the  outer world regarded my occupation I felt my children were 2 secure from all injurious influences. When your lessons were:    "FE INr W  H N GTON.      101 conned, and you knelt at my knee and said your evening prayers, I looked upon your innocent faces and was thankful that I had chosen a path which enabled me to attend to your moral training and imbue your young hearts with early piety.", "Yoa were right, mother, you chose well for us. How selfish in me to reproach you. But you will forgive me. Yet, you cannot know with what a crushing weight those scathing words fell upon my spirit, blasting every bright hope that was' budding in my heart, promising blossoms? fair' as those that bloomed in Paradise. Your kind words and gentle voice have recalled me to myself. But I am weary, undefined thoughts press upon my brain, I will go to my own room and ask of my Heavenly father, strength to sustain me in this. dark hour of sorrow." "Stay with me, my child, that I may soothe your troubled spirit." "No, mother, God alone can be my solace. Go to your own room, mother, pray for your child, and then sleep calmly. Rest assured, your early teaching will now be of service to your stricken child. How fortunate are those who have a mother, whose instruction in childhood teaches them where to turn in the hour of trial." Kissing her mother's cheek, she left the room. Mrs. Stanmore looked after her retreating form, and as she contrasted her pale sorrowing face, with the bright beaming crea- ture that she was a few hours previous, she groaned in agony of spirit- "This is anguish beyond all I have known,' and then her thoughts went back to the almost forgotten past. The memory of her own betrothal and happy marriage passed before her. The maternal happiness with which she had watched over her angel Ella, in infancy.' Thus far all was bright. But now a slight shadow rests upon her pathway. Slight indeed at first, but deep. ening and growing more dark, till no ray of light rests upon her heart, save that which gleams from the bright eyes of her two fair children. Her husband had become the slave of the wine cup. His broad lands pass from him. His family is reduced to beggary, and worse than this, he himself to the level of a brute. L                      Q   102        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, A reform and removal from the scene of his degradation, brings hope again to her bosom, but death follows ere he has retrieved his fortunes, and she is left destitute, obliged to labor for her loved ones. And this is the cause of her darling daughter's pres- ent anguish. As her thoughts thus ran over the past and its present conse- quences, she exclaims passionately: "Oh; had all endured what I have done, the tempting wine would be banished from every household. It would no longer sparkle on the tables of the prosperous and happy, luring to wretchedness thousands who have not strength to withstand temptation." Absorbed in sorrowful reflections, the hours crept slowly by. Morning came, and sleep had not visited the pillow of Mrs.  ! Stanmore. And Ella-but of her in the next chapter.   "FE IN WASxHNGTON.        103 CHAPTER XII. THE HEARTHS STRUGGLE. As soon as Ella found herself alone in her own room, she threw herself on her knees, and poured forth her heart in prayer. When she rose, the wild, troubled expression had left her counte- nance, and in its stead there was a calm, sad expression, denoting resignation and sorrow. Her face was colorless as marble, and as she rested her cheek upon her hand, you could have deemed you looked upon a beau- tiful statue, so unmovable, so absorbed was she. But, oh! how painfully active the spirit within, although no manifestation of it was apparent. She sat thus at least an hour, and during that time she had lived again, as it were, her whole life, from her in- nocent, happy childhood, to the present hour. First, her mother's low, sweet tones fell on her ear, as she taught her the evening lesson and nightly prayer. Next, the memory of her school- girl days, the quiet study room, the hours of recreation, with the bright hopes and anticipations of that period.  She was again in that dear chapel, where, with a heart overflowing with pure and holy emotions, she had knelt at the altar to receive the sacrament of baptism. Music was gushing around her, but its notes were not glad and exulting as then, but sad and low, as if it were chanting the requiem of a broken heart; and flowers, fresh, blooming flowers, were there, shedding fragrance around. But the chapel was in mourning, indicating death, but this soon passed. Then words of, impassioned love were poured into her willing ear, sinking into her heart of hearts, filling her soul with a dream of happiness too bright for earth, and yet, although all   104        ANNIE GRkAYSON; OR, of life, save this happy scene, was shut out from her vision, it brought no color to her cheek, no light to her eye. Every func- tion of life seemed suspended, save that of thought. Lastly, came the reimembrance of the conversation in the conservatory, and the deep, deep anguish of the last hour. She now raised her hand to her brow, and rose from her seat. After standing thus a moment, she clasped her hands over her heart, as if to still its painful beatings, and sighed forth, in tones touchingly mournful: "I know why this deep sorrow was permitted to fall upon my spirit; I had given the love, which belongs only to the Creator, to the creature. Yes, I loved Fred with a depth and devoted- ness bordering on idolatry; but 'tis past, past, forever past." As she uttered the last word, she sank again in the chair, and,  placing her hands before her face, tear-drops were soon glistening  between her fingers. They were the first she had shed since the shattering of her bright hopes, and when she removed her hands from her face, the rigid and death-like immobility of her features had disappeared. She now rose and divested herself of her party 3 attire. When she took from her brown curls the white Japonica, which was the only ornament she had worn in her hair, she gazed on it a moment, then a sad smile passed over her face, and she went to her writing-desk, took from it a sheet of paper, enveloped the delicate flower within it, and deposited it in a drawer, saying as she did so  "This I will preserve, for Fred praised it, and said its delicate wax-like petals, were emblematic of the purity and beauty of the wearer. I know 'tis weakness to cherish it thus, but I will keep it as a memento of happy hours, and when its freshness and beauty shall have departed, it will be emblematic still, for it will I be an emblem of my blighted hopes, and the withered flowers of 1 happiness that were budding in my bosom."           ; Her eye then rested on a diamond ring that encircled her taper finger; she raised her hand as if to remove it, then, letting :: it drop, as if she changed her mind, she said: "No, no, it may remain where Fred placed it, until I see him, and then I will return it to him, when I release him from his   "FE INl WASHNGTON.         105 vows, for never can I be his, even would he desire to wed me Oh, no, my pride would not permit it, for I have pride, although I have been deemed wanting in that quality." Leaving the ring upon her finger, she retired to rest, but not to sleep, for during the weary watches of that long night, her thoughts were busy with the future as well as the past, and she had, ere the morning light, gained strength to go through the trials that awaited her with unwavering firmness. Just as the day dawned, exhausted nature yielded, and she sank into a calm sweet sleep. When her mother came into her room, she found her thus, and, ejaculating a prayer of thankfulness, that her darl- ing child was for a time forgetful of sorrow, she quietly-left the room. Ella, when she awoke, rose, and went immediately to her mother's sitting room, whose first salutation was : "How is my  darling, this morning?" To which she replied: "The wild tumult that raged in my  bosom has subsided, and I feel that I have strength to endure the disappointment which has fallen upon me. I sought strength where it is to be found, and I am now calm." "I  feared the rude shock would be more than you could bear, ' and you-would  sink under it." "No, mother, I will henceforth devote my life to the, perform- ance of acts of kindness to my fellow creatures, who are un- . fortunate; and, from witnessing their happiness, learn to forget my own sorroW." "You are right, my child, if you would drive sorrow from the heart, -be active in the performance of benevolent deeds." The breakfast hour soon came, and Ella forced herself to take some, knowing if she did not it would give pain to her mother. When breakfast was over, Mrs. Stanmnore, to divert her attention from   herself, proposed that they should visit some poor families, who had been pensioners on her bounty during the winter, but Not   this morning, mother, Fred will call, and I would see him and tell'him myself, that the happy future we had anticipated , can never be realized."   106        ANNIE GPAYSON; OR, "Have you strength to do so; would you not better defer it?" "No, mother, I shall feel better when it 's done; I would have it ended at once." As Ella had anticipated, Fred called bebfore the fashionable lour for visitors. When the bell rang, her heart beat wildly, and she trembled like an aspen, but ere the servant came to say, Mr. Leroux was in the parlor, shehad recovered her self-possession. When she entered the parlor there was just the slightest tinge of 3olor on her cheek, and the calm holy light that beamed from1  the mournful depths of her soft blue eye, added to her beauty, .! %nd she seemed a being too pure and lovely for earth. Fred  rose from his seat, and taking her hand, he pressed it to his lips, i saying:  "My own, my beautiful one, you must excuse me for calling  so early, but when cousin Annie told me you had retired on  account of indisposition, I was so anxious I scarce slept during the night. It was so. unkind that you did not permit her to call me, to see you home." Then seating her on the sofa he placed himself beside her, and gazing tenderly on her fair face, he imprinted a kiss upon her marble brow, and continued:                  X "I fear you are not well yet, you look so pale. But it will soon be my privilege to watch over your welfare; would it were so now, for you really look ill."  "Never can it be your task to watch over me," was the reply of Ella in a voice sad as the wail of a breaking heart. These were the first words she had spoken since she entered  the room, and her mournful tones smote painfully upon the  heart of her affianced husband, and looking at her earnestly, he said:         .                 - "You talk wildly; I fear your reason wanders, and you speak the vagaries of a fevered brain."               . "Would it were a vagary."                 : "What mean you "                     : "That I can never be your bride."  "And why not? What have I done to pain or offend you,    i that you speak such cruel words."-   "FE IN WASHN GTON.         107 "Nothing; you are all that is noble, generous, kind; bu s noble generous, nd. but fate has placed a barrier between us."  "In what form? There can be no barrier that my love will not remove, unless you have ceased to love me." "Ceased to love you! that were impossible while life ani- mates this bosom."  "Then no' other barrier can exist. By own brightone,are rou not the light of my existence? Life without you would not )e life. And do you suppose I will suffer any thing to hinder ne from uniting my destiny to yours."  "Your own words have done it." "What were those words?" ' Did you not say to Clementina Wilkie last evening, that ou would abandon your bride, even at the foot of the altar, hould you learn that she was the daughter ofa washerwoman ," "And when she said, 'If you loved her deeply, you would Verlook that circumstance, you declared you would tear her Rage from your boso m, even if your heart-strings were sundered "Yes; but what has that to do with your becoming my "I am a washerwoman's daughters,  "You, Ella, you! 'Tis impossible! The dignified , intellee . al, and refined Mrs. Stanmore, could never have occupied that mble station." "Yet she did it. "  ;' Why did she do it? Her attainments are such, that even if essity obliged her to earn a support for her family, she could re done so by engaging in some less degrading pursuit." 'It matters not to say why she did so, for the fact of her ring done so cannot be changed, and that precludes a possi- ty of my becoming your wife." Ella, I cannot give you up; pride in this instance must yield I cannot become the bride  of one whose brow would be Ltled with the blush of sham e for mysake. o  will soon You will soon   ,:   OB-:       AmNN- GRAYSONr; OB, forget the dream of love that flashed for a time across your path." "Never," said ha, vehemently; then, rising, he walked the floor with much agitation. Suddenly stopping before her, he said: ",And can you cast from you the bright hopes of the future without-one emotion of regret!" "Ask your own heart, if such a thing be possible." "Then, why do you sit there so calmly, and say we must be separated through life ." "The struggle is past. Look upon me; see the change one night of suffering has wrought. No, no, when I heard your re- plies to Clementina's questionings, in the conservatory, I felt that my heart strings would burst. None know, but God and my own spirit, what it has cost me to acquire this calmness." "Ella, do not decide hastily; I will leave you now, and call again to-morrow." ' Tis useless, I have decided.'"  "Say not so, Ella, say not so ;" and taking her hand, he pressed it to his lips, and then left her, saying: " 1 will see you in the morning," When- he had left, Ella, who sat absorbed in her sorrowful thoughts, noted not the lapse of time, till her mother came in, and roused her from her reverie. ,She then observed the ring upon her finger; she had fcgotten to return it, and she said to herself: "I shall be obliged to see him to-morrow to give it to him. I will converse with him, and hear the music of his voice once more." The day passed slowly by, and Ella exerted her- self to converse with her mother, that that dear friend might not perceive the sadness that weighed upon her heart. Early in the evening she retired to rest, and when her mother, before going to her own, called at her daughter's room, she found her sleeping heavily, and her cheek, which had been so colorless during the day, was slightly flushed. As the mother gazed upon her sleep- ing child, she invoked heaven's blessings upon her head, and then turned and left her, with a heart lighter than when she entered, for she did not know that the heavy sleep and flushed hee k were indications of serious disease. But when she went   "FE IN WASHNGTONM.        109 to call her in the morning, the fever had developed itself; the overtasked nerves had given way, and she was perfectly delirious. A physician was immediately sent for, and, in answer to the mother's anxious inquiry, he told her the disease was induced by mental excitement, and there was danger-of inflammation of the brain, but he would endeavor to prevent such a termination. -Who can tell the anguish of that lone mother's heart as she watched beside her stricken child, and, listened to her wild ravings; but even when reason was dethroned, that same gentle- ness, which had ever characterized her, was still apparent. She was not furious or ungovernable in her madness, but in sad and touching tones would speak of the past, and the injustice of that public opinion which had dashed the cup of happiness so sud- denly from her lips. At other times, she would beg her brother to come and take her to his new home in the west, where labor was not considered degrading, but persons were respected in proportion as they were useful members of society. And' that cherished brother was on his way to the city ; he had been writ- ten for at the commencement of her illness, and he- hastened to come, but it required many days ere he arrived. Yet the mother did not watch alone beside the sick bed during that time. Annie Grayson gave up the gayeties of the season, that she might soothe the lonely mother, and minister to her sick friend. There was another too, upon whose ears the sounds of mirth fell discordantly, and the gay word and light laugh smote pain-t fully upon his heart. Yes, Fred Leroux, instead! of being a visitant at the nightly parties to which he was invited, was at home in his own room, a prey to the deepest anguish, or when his feelings became so excited he could remain 'there no longer, he would go to Mrs. Stanmore's and wander through the rooms like one bereft of reason. Sometimes he would go to the sick chamber, when Ella .lay quiet, but if she commenced in her piteous tones to repeat some of the disconnected thoughts that rambled through her brain, he would be so much overcome, that he would be obliged to leave the ,room at once. Two weeks slipped by without any perceptible change, only she grew weaker. There was not the slightest indication of returning   "O        NNIE GRAYSON; OR, reason, and Mrs. Stanmore feared her daughter would pass from earth without being able to recognize her more. It was the fifteenth day from the commencement of her illness: she lay more quiet than she had done, but still she did not know those around her; she would call for her mother, but when she answered her call, she did not recognize her. The evening shadows were deepening over the earth, and sor-  rowing friends were preparing for another night of lonely watch-  ing; the door-bell rang, and soon the brother's form cast a shadow in the room. In a moment he was beside his sister's bed: he gazed upon her pale face, and caught a glance of her eye,-;in which the fire of insanity gleamed, then stooping, he kissed her: she did not know him, but sighed forth,-  "Oh, why don't Eddy come-why don't Eddy come 1  "1 am here, my dear sister," replied her brother.  She took no notice of him, but continued,- - "'Tis no use to wish for him-he could not restore the light of happiness to my heart, nor remove this burning pain from my head, which scorches my brain. Oh, I am so weary; I would  rest-even were it the rest of the grave! But then poor Eddy,  he would miss me; and mother, she would be lonely without her Ella. Who would sing for her when the evening hour closes round her . I must stay; but yet my spirit craves rest." Whilst she thus ran on, the brother's thoughts went back to the bright, blooming creature he had left, three years previous, and then to return and see the wreck before him. It was too much, and he bowed his head and wept; yes, the strong man wept like a child!                     i Soon a hand was laid upon his shoulder, and a voice, whose tones thrilled his heart, even in that sad hour, said,- "After three years' of absence, have you no word of greeting for your mother, and the playmate of your boyhood?" He turned and saw Annie Grayson; her dark eyes beaming with sympathy, met his own; he grasped her hand, and said,-  "Yes, I have both greeting and thanks for you, who have been so kind as to come and watch beside the bed of sickness, in the hour of loneliness and darkness. And you, my mother, I am  !   "FE IN -WASNGTON.         1" here to comfort you in this hour of sorrow. But when I looked on Ella I forgot all, for the moment, save her. 'Tis too much that she cannot even realize I am by her side. And how strangely she talks, as if life were a burden that she would gladly lay down. What does it mean, mother ?" "To-morrow I will tell all that you would know, but not to- night." The physician now came in; he seated himself beside the bed, took her hand, and, after feeling her pulse and examining her' closely, he turned to Mrs. Stanmore, saying,- "There will be a change to-night. If, toward midnight she grows calm, and falls into a quiet slumber, hopes may be enter- tained of her recovery. But if, on the contrary, she becomes more restless as the night advances, it is probable when the morning dawns, her pure spirit will have passed from earth." Oh, how anxiously did they await the midnight hour! and when she sank into a quiet slumber, what joy came to their hearts ! they felt she was saved, so implicit was their confidence in the skill of the physician. As soon as it was ascertained that she really slept, Annie proposed to Mrs. Stanmore that she should also take some rest, whilst she watched beside her friend. Edwin joined his entreaties to Annie's, saying he would watch with her, that she might not be lonely. To this Annie objected, thinking he was too much fatigued after his journey. But he insisted he felt no fatigue, and would remain beside his sister. Thus we see those two friends, in whose hearts a warmer feeling than that of friendship existed, after an absence of three years, watching the bed of sickness; and as they conversed in subdued tones in the hush of that room, who can tell the emotions that thrilled the bosom of each ? Ella slept calmly during the night, and when she awoke in the morning, reason was restored. The joy and gratitude that swelled the hearts of Mrs. Stanmore and Edwin, I shall not attempt to describe.  2        AKNME G MYSOK, OB,- CHAPTERXIS.  THE SPIRIT'S RELEASE M WHEN Ella unclosed her eyes an saw Annie seated by her,  "I had a pleasant dream;, I thought Eddy had come home." l He has come, darling.": "t Oh, where is he ." "Here by your side," said the brother, coming from a distant corner of the room to which he had retired, fearing if her eye rested on him when she first awoke, it would startle her. As he approached, shef attempted to rise, but had not strengt  tdO do so- ceasing her efforte, she rema'rked: "I must have been ill I am soweak, I cannot raise my head  "You h ave been ill,' very ill, but thank Heaven, you aremuch better," said tho brother; stooping tand caressing her; ;. i trust you will soon be well, and ere-I return to my Western home, I shall see my precious sister, the bright, joyous, gentle being she was when I left her." No Eddy, I can never be again the joyous creature I was  i when you left me. Your Ellas experience oflife; s nce you saw ,i her last  , has changeel her; sadly changed her. But I am weak and weary, and'eannot speak of it this morning," said she, osing her eyes, and a tear glistened on her pale cheek, like a, dew-drop In a few moments the physician came in and examined her long and critically; he went to her brother and said, "All that she now required was careful nursing and quiet, the disease was   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        f removed, but so slight was her iold on life, that the least agita' tion might prove fatal." The third day after the return of her brother, he was endeavor- ing to interest her by telling her of his new home, and how she would enjoy the new scenes and kind friends she would there meet. She listened to him some time, then looking into his face, she said: " No, Eddy, I shall never look on that new home; do not flatter yourself that I shall get well, I feel it here," said she, placing her hand on her heart, and added, " Were it not for you and dear mamma, how gladly would I rest me in the grave, for brother dear, all the bright and happy hopes of youth have been crushed in my bosom." "'Tis weakness that makes you talk thus, darling; when you recover your strength, you will not feel so desponding, and there is one beside those you have mentioned, who could not give you up; he seems to live only to make inquiry for you, and you cer- tainly would not let expressions drawn from him by an artful woman, separate two hearts, so united." " They have told you all V "Yes; and I have witnessed the anguish the noble-hearted young man.feels on your account. And were it not for the strict injunctions of the physician, I could not withstand his earnest entreaties to be permitted to see you." a Well, I would see him, but not to-day: I have already exert- ed myself as much as I am able. Yet, I could not hear you in- dulging in those bright anticipations, without telling you they could never be realized. When I am gone, you will supply my place to our dear mamma, that she may not feel too heavily my loss." " Dear Ella, I cannot bear to hear you talk thus. Why should such thoughts take possession of you ? I am sure you are much better than you were." " It may be so, but do not hope too confidently ; I would sleep, now;'" and, closing her eyes, she looked as if the spirit had al- ready departed. As the brother gazed upon that calm, pale brow, his heart, which had hitherto cherished hopes of her recovery,  "4        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, misgave him, and he felt the words she had just addressed to him were prophetic. When Annie Grayson came to watch beside her, as she did some portion of each day, Edwin went to his mother's room with a sadder face than he had worn since the first evening of his arrival. His mother observed it, and rising from her seat, said hastily:  "Is Ella worse?"                      i "She does not seem so, but I have no hope of her recovery." "Why so "  "Her body is too weak, to bear up under the mental depres- sion that weighs upon her." He then related to his mother the conversation that had just passed between them, and told her, he thought it would be better to permit Frederick Leroux to see her, as it might have a good effect upon her. To this, his mother assented, and when Fred, as was his custom, came in the evening to inquire how Ella had passed the day, Mrs. Stanmore told him, he might to-morrow, if she grew no worse, see her himself. "Oh," said he, "I cannot sufficiently thank you for your kind- ness, you cannot conceive what I have suffered. If I can only hear Ella say, she forgives me for what she has suffered, and will permit me to devote my life to her happiness, then I will be truly blest."  In ithe evening, the physician gave Ella a composing draught. She slept calmly during the night, and the next morning was much refreshed. She took some breakfast, and when Frederick Leroux came at nine o'clock, she told her mother she wished to see him. When he approached her, he was so overcome with emotion, he could not utter a word. He took her hand, which was white as the snowy counterpane on which it rested, and pressed it to his lips, whilst a scalding tear-drop fell upon it. She regarded him kindly, saying, in a voice sweet and low: "Do not give way to such emotion, it is painful for me to  witness." "Then I will repress my feelings, for I have given you pain enough already. Henceforth it shall be my study to make your   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         115 life happy-no sorrow shall come near you, if doting, watchful love can avert it."      ; "I know you love me, but not long will I tax that love-my hold on life is slight; I may pass from earth any day. I feel it-I know it; and that is why I wished to see you, and, that you might not grieve too deeply when I am gone, to tell you how bright the dream of happiness your love shed over a portion of my existence. It was a foreshadowing of that pure and unal- loyed happiness to which I am  hastening; for heaven is perfect love, where no evil or discordant feeling may come to-mar its pleasures." " Ella, I cannot bear to hear you talk thus; you are so young, and life is all bright before you." "Yes, 'tis now bright, but lately a shadow rested on my spirit dark as night, and nothing but my near approach to heaven hath dispelled it." "Oh, speak not so!--live for me--for the friends that adore you   ! Life to me would have no object, no aim, unless blessed with thy presence-thy love.    You are my  angel-my  star of hope-my      all of brightness in life.  Oh, it cannot be-it cannot be,!" he exclaimed, with passionate energy, " that like a bright meteor you have crossed my   path, ennobling, elevating, purifying my nature, by the holiness and purity of your own, and then to be so quickly removed-shutting out all hope from my  heart!" "No, no, Frederick; let it inspire you with a  higher, nobler hope,-that of performing the duty you owe to your country and your God, that you may look forward to a blissful reunion in that world to which my spirit is so near. Be no longer a trifler in the saloons of fashion-listen not to the siren voice of pleasure, that would lure you to follow in her train, which would enfeeble and finally destroy those nobler qualities of heart and mind which, if properly directed, will win the admiration of man and the approbation of God.  When poor Ella Stanmore rests in the quiet of the grave, will you remember her love and her adjurations  ?" As she thus addressed him, this pale, fragile being of earth, resembled some  guardian spirit sent to counsel the wayward,   "6        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, ardent, and gifted Leroux. As he looked upon her spiritual beauty, and listened to her impassioned words, he trembled with emotion; and when she had concluded, he exclaimed,- "Oh, heaven! do not torture me thus!-yes, yes; when you shall have passed from my sight, your memory will form a part of my existence: it will cling to me like my own shadow-but, oh, God!, I cannot believe the bright hopes of life are thus to be blighted in the bud. You will live for my sake. The thought of losing you drives me to madness." "Calm yourself, and let us say, ' God's will be done. " "As well bid the ocean be calm, when the wildest storms have dashed its waves into fury, as bid me calm the tumultuous grief that rages in my bosom." "The wildest storms are succeeded by a calm; and grief, the most violent, must yield to the soothing influence of timne." "Yes, but the cruel wrecks, with which the ocean is strewn during a storm, bring sadness and despair to many an aching, anxious heart, that no future sunshine can gladden, and the hopes that have once been crushed, can never bloom again." "But in their stead may spring those immortal hopes, that i only become brighter and stronger as the disappointments of earth weigh more heavily upon the weary spirit. I have realized that such is the case, and I now feel calm and happy." When Frederick Leroux had gone, and Mrs. Stanmore came to sit beside her daughter, Ella said to her mother:    J "I feel strong to-day, and I would tell you a wish that has 1 taken possession of me."                   - What is it, my! darling?" "That my funeral services may be performed in that little chapel, where I received the sacrament of baptism. I know good sister Angelique, and our Right Reverend Archbishop will per- mit it, when they know it is my dying wish." Whilst she was conversing with her mother, Annie Grayson came in. When she saw her, she looked up into her face, with a bright smile, saying: "I was just wishing to see you. I know your kind, generous heart; ; have tested your unchanging friendship, so unlike-the -   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         i17 ordinary friendships of the world, therefore, would I tax it still further; when I am gone, you must comfort ,y dear manmma in her hours of loneliness and sorrow. Ere the bright spring flowers shall have unfolded their petals, I shall have passed away, and I trust all who have loved me, will endeavor to cheer her, when Eddy has returned to his western home." "I will be to her as a daughter, not only for your dear sake, but for the love I bear her." Several days passed away, without producing a perceptible change in Ella.  Watchful fiends were ever round her, whilst she seemed to be more and more assimilated to the blessed spirits above. Emma Carlton, who had been the cherished friend of her heart from childhood, having now to toil for a sub- sistence, could seldom be with her during the day, but she would ever, during the evening, steal an hour from her labors to spend with her friend, and the intercourse of those quiet evening hours, strengthened her to perform her daily tasks with cheerfulness and hope. The last evening Emma   spent with her, Ella took from her finger a ring, and placed it upon that of her friend, saying: "Wear this for my  sake; and if, in your journeying through life, sorrow dark and deep should threaten to overwhelm you, look upon this little circlet of gold; and let it say to you, for her whose lips will be silent in death, and who has known heart- grief,--'The heart that trusteth in God, will-be comforted and 'sustained.' "Yes, Ella, I will never forget the many kind precepts you have impressed upon my heart since you have been confined to a sick room, and I  trust in every trial, I may be enabled to emu- late your patience and resignation." W  hen Emma rose to depart, she was led by an irresistible impulse to take leave of Ella more tenderly than was her wont, and when she had repeatedly kissed her pale'cheek, she left her, feeling more sad than she had done on any previous evening. The next .morning was one of those bright spring days, which sometimes visits us during winter here in Washington. Ella asked her mother to put back the curtains, that the sunbeams   "8        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, might enter her chamber. When she had done so, and the glad rays flashed into the apartment, she exclaimed with animation: ': Oh beautiful, beautiful! We must be confined to a sick room,-and have the glorious sunlight shut out from it for a time, if we would appreciate it truly. I feel that my spirit could be borne to heaven on a beam of light. And my dear mamma, do not be startled, if as the sunlight fades from earth this coming eve, my soul should take its departure to that realm where no shadow of night ever comes. I dreamed during the past night such would be the case." "God's will be done," said the mother, meekly. "And now I have some little remembrances 1 wish you to give to my friends when I am gone. In the drawer of my toilet bureau, you will find enwrapped in a sheet of paper, the japonica 1 wore in my hair the night of Annie's party. Give it to Fred, and tell him to keep it, and when he looks upon it, to remember that earth's brightest hopes may in one short hour be withered as utterly as that frail flower. You will, also, when I am dead, remove from my finger this diamond ring; it was placed there by him; you will return it to him, he will prize it for the associations i connected with it. Give Tmy Bible to Eddy: tell him to let no day pass without reading some portion of its contents. Give my l cross, that I have worn ever since it was presented to me by dear  sister Angelique, to Annie; tell her to let it remind her of the sufferings our Saviour endured on the cross for our redemption, i and if sorrow should ever overshadow her path, to look to Him ii for comfort. And to you, dear mamma, I would leave as my   Ai special gift, the locket which was presented me by Eddy, con- taining his miniature and mine. I would retain a place in the memory of those I have loved, when death shall have claimed me. This is the last weakness of earth. You will do as I wish you '" "Yes, my angel child, every wish of yours shall be sacredly performed." ': Now I would sleep. Shut out the bright light." Mrs. Stanmore did as requested, and then seated herself beside her. Ella sank into a quiet sleep, from which she did not awake   "FE IN WASHNGTON.           19 till late in the afternoon. When she unclosed her eyes, the friends she most loved were around her. A sweet smile passed over her features and she remarked eatures and s h remarked . "This is as I would have it, ho  calm, how happy I feel. Oh how lovely, how  beautiful," said she, pointing upward, "but listen, oh listen, the angelic choir is coming." And in a voice, such as we might fancy belonged to the Heavenly choir, she warbled forth- What soft, sweet strains of music Are o'er my senses stealing, And angel voices near me, Are Heaven's joys revealing. They say, Come sister spirit. Though thy youthful hopes were riven, A purer joy than aught of earth, Will soon be thine in Heaven. A golden harp awaits thee, With robes of snowy whiteness. A  crown of glory is prepared, Surpassing noon-day brightness. We come to bear thee home, Each earthly tie to sever, And God's eternal love, Will give thee joy forever. As she ceased, a smile lighted up her features, and her spirit had passed to heaven, without a struggle, leaving upon her face the impress of beauty almost divine. Of all the friends who had loved her, none felt so utterly miserable as Frederick Le- roux. When her mother, who was seated beside her, said calmly.:    "The pure spirit is released." Frederick Leroux came to her side, and, looking sadly upon the  beautiful inanim ate clay, he said, in tones of d ee est an- guish. "Oh, God! the light of my life is darkened forever!" and, stooping, he impressed a  kiss upon the pale brow; then, without uttering another word, he left the room . Nor did he ever look on tha t sweet face again.  When'her funeral took place in the   120       BRNIE GRAYSON; OR, little chapel, two days after her death, it was not attended by a long train of distinguished persons, for she was not one of the celebrities of Washington. But true and loving hearts were there, and when the low, solemn notes of the organ filled the chapel, and the voices of the nuns chanted a requiem for the beautiful departed, it fell upon the heart of Frederick erouxes with a softening influence, and the despair and hopelessness which had benumbed every faculty, passed away, and he was  i enabled to look forward to a reunion in that realm, to which she, ' who was too pure, too gentle for earth,had goneand he mur- mured:e gods love die ea "It is ever thus; whom the gods love, die early."   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         121 CHAPTER  XIV. TRIALS OF THE POOR. IN the whirl of fashionable life at Washington, the death even of a President, is scarcely thought of a week after the funeral, and, of course, when an ordinary individual passes away, it is not even known, save to the bereaved ones, that death has been among them. Assemblies, levees, receptions, and balls, with other amusements, occupy the time and thoughts of the votaries of pleasure, leaving no time to soothe the sorrowing heart, or administer relief to the unfortunate. But Annie Grayson was not one of those. Although her position was such as made it necessary for her to receive and give much of her time to society, yet she suffered- no day to pass without seeing Mrs. Stanmiore. Edwin remained in the city several weeks, being unwilling to leave his mother, until time should have enabled her to feel less severely the loss of Ella. Occasionally, when Annie had an evening that she was not engaged with those fashionable friends who thought they had an entire claim to her society, she would spend an evening with Edwin and his mother; and happier was she in those quiet even- ings than when surrounded by the gay and fashionable, and listening to the unmeaning compliments which were poured into her ear by the crowds of admirers which were ever in her train. Some were attracted by the reputation of being the possessor of great wealth, and the high position she occupied in the world of' fashion; whilst others really appreciated her noble character, and were charmed by her graces of mind and person. - Among 6   122        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, the latter class was the Marquis B., and he remained in Wa ington, with the hope of winning her to be his bride. The elite of the federal city are all excitement and anticipation, for the lady of the French minister had sent out cards for a grand ball in honor of the Marquis, her nephew. The Melvina Janes, Ophelia Anns, Cecilias, and Amelias, who consider them- selves the beauties and belles of their set, are all deeply engaged in shopping, giving orders to dress-makers, looking at jewellery, and discussing the manner in which they will have their hair dressed, with as much earnestness as if these were the most im- portant matters in life; and indeed they do regard them as such, for each thought at the coming ball she should make a conquest of the Marquis, and secure to herself the most desirable match to be met with in Washington. The day preceding the ball has arrived, and heaven have mercy on the dress-makers, for their sister mortals have none! After having scarcely taken time to eat or sleep for the past week, and thinking they will soon put the finishing touch to the beautiful dresses that are to render the wearers conspicuousat the coming ball, for elegance and taste, some capricious beauty, who never knows her own mind two hours at a time, after hav- ing her dress made and trimmed precisely by her direction, when it is sent home finds it does not look so becoming as she fancied it would; therefore, it is sent back with a message some- thing of-this import: That she is surprised any one with the least pretension to good taste, should send such a piece of work from her shop, and unless she will alter it according to a direction she sends, in time' for this evening, she will never give her another bit of work a long as she lives, and she will prevent her friends from giving her their custom also. - The mistress of the shop looks at the dress, then at the over- worked and wearied-looking girls in her employ. She is on the point of returning the dress with an indignant message, but the thought, that she is dependent on such as she, for employment for herself and girls, obliges her to repress her indignation, and say to the servant in a bland tone :   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         123 "' Tell your mistress, we will make every possible exertion to have it as she wishes it, by eight o'clock." Emma Carlton, who, the preceding winter, had been one of the most admired in the world of fashion, is now, as well as others, enllgaged in the same occupation, obliged to toil at un- reasonable hours, and put up with the whims and caprises of those spoiled children of fashion, who, it seems, are not a ware th those who are obliged to labor, possess any sensibility, or ean ever become wearied. Emma endures it all with the fortitude of a stoic, when it affects only herself; but when her mother and those whom she at times hires to assist her, are oppressed by it, it weighs heavily upon her heart. She, during the past week, with a little French girl to whom she had given employment, had sat up sewing till twelve and  one o'clock every night, and yet, she, on the morning preceding the ball, has just commenced a beautiful satin she is to make for Annie Grayson; but the others are all finished and sent home, and she looks up at her mother with a cheerful smile, saying   se looks  "Well, mother, we have a good day's work before us; but dear Annie will not find fault, if we are a little late: Eulalie and I can finish it by half past eight o'lock this evening, o you need not assist us, to-day."         eveni  o you need "Oh, I am so glad; for my head aches so severely, I am almost blind, and if you can get it done, I will lie down th I feel better." "Do    so, mother dear, aid be sure you give yourself no un- easiness about the work. it will all be done in good time, for I will have every thing ready for Eulalie by the time she comes and then we will both go to sewing, and we will soon finish it." Although Emma spoke so cheeringly to her mother, her own temples were throbbing with pain; h er ov ertasked energies were just ready to give wa y, but the y w ere sustained by a determined will. She had cut all  the trimmin gs and prepared everything for work, but Eulahe had not yet come. "I fear that she is sick ," said she to herself : ", she is very d eli- " ate ; and I, who am blessed with such good h ealth, am almost exhausted. Oh! did the daughters o  f f ashion know with what aching heads, as well as hearts, their elegant dresses are some.   124        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, times prepared, they would not be so exacting; and if a fold or a puff did not just suit their taste, they would not insist that it should be changed, when there was no time to do it." She went to the door, to look if she could see her coming. Just as she opened it, Eulalie stepped on the door-sill, looking as if she would faint; and had not Emma caught her and sup- ported her to a chair, she would have fallen. Emma snatched up a bottle of Cologne which was on her work-stand, for she had been using it for a headache, and bathed her face and temples. In a few moments color returned to her lips, and she smiled faintly, saying,-  - "' Nothing has so strengthening an effect on me as Cologne, when I feel weak and faint. I told mamma this morning if I only had some Cologne to bathe my face, I would be able to take some breakfast- then I should not have felt so faint." "You should not have come out when you were too unwell to take any breakfast," said Emma, looking with compassion on the pale, delicate creature before her, and forgetting her own per- plexity in commiseration for the sorrow-stricken face befolre her.  "I often feel so, and a walk in the fresh air revives me: I knew how much was to be done to-day, and that my assistance could not be dispensed with." "But, my dear child, you are not able to sew." "' Oh, yes, I shall soon be well-I was only overcome with fatigue." "Well, you must lie down on the lounge and rest, whilst I  prepare you a cup of coffee; then, if you feel strong enough, we will both go to work, and we will get through by the timte it is needed."  I Eulalie did as Emma desired her, for she really felt perfectly exhausted, although she tried to persuade herself and Emma that she would soon feel as well as usual. Emma brought her a nice  cup of coffee. When she had drank it, and partaken of a bit ot ham and a fresh light roll that Emma had insisted she should taste, she felt nluch refieshed; and the two girls had just taken their seat beside the work-table, when a rap was heard at the   a zsr v ZL5II V1' UR  doc. It was opened, and- the maid of Miss Wilkie entered bearing a bandbox. Emma, with a look of anxiety,'said,-- "What is wanted, Chloe?". "' Why Miss Clementina says as how she don't like the puffs on the skirt of her dress. She wants them taken off, and plain fiolds in their place." "She ordered it to be trimmed in that manner." "' But she changed her mind since, 'case Miss Jennys got puffs on hers, and my young missus is mighty 'fined in her idees; she can't bear to wear nothing like that poor uncultivated white gal." "Did she tell you so?" "No, but I knows it; she just told me to tote it here and have it' changed; but I's so used to young missus, I knows her thoughts by the cut of her eye." "Well, Chloe, go back to your mistress, and tell her my mother is so unwell, she is unable to assist me to-day; Eulalie is scarce able to sit up, and we have just commenced a dress that is wanted for this evening. If she can wait 'till to-morrow to have the trimmings changed, it will be a great favor." 'But laws, she wants to wear it to-night." "Yes, but when she knows how I am situated, she would per haps wear it as it is for one evening." "I don't believe she will, but I'll go home and ax her." Chloe returned in a few minutes, saying, "Miss Clementina must have the trimmings changed. When I told her your mammy was sick, and Miss Eulalie looked as' pale as a sheet; Miss Jenny tried to persuade her to wear it as it is, telling her, she thought it was wery handsum, but this only made her more' unreconciled with it, and she was agoing to box my ears for having the impidence to ax her towait 'till to-morrow, and she said people what had to work for their living, had no business to give up for every little pain and ache. So I just run back totell you she must have it fixed right this evening." Whilst Chloe was telling what her young missus said, Annie Grayson came in, and Emma said to Chloe: "You may go home and tell your mistress, it shall be done." j   Without givinggany further attention to Chloe, Emma turned to Annie, and -told her what trouble she was in. Annie said, " she should give herself no uneasiness, but put her dress away, she was perfectly indiffteent about having it for the ball. It would give her far more pain to know any one worked upon it when suffering, than it would to do without it." "Oh, Annie, were there more such as you, how much would -the sufferings of the unfortunate be lessened. When every nerve is throbbing with weariness and pain, how greatly is it increased by the reproaches and fault finding of many of our employers; and we are tempted to sin by wishing for the rest and quietness of the grave." "I trust you have never been tempted thus far." "Not yet, but I sometimes fear when I look on others, I may be." As she uttered this remark, a slight moan fell on her ear, and looking toward. the window where Eulahe was sitting, she saw her leaning on the window sill almost gasping for breath. She ran to her, took her hand and spoke soothingly to her, telling her 1 she must lie down, and not attempt to work any more during the day. "But you will not be able to retrim that dress without my assistance." "Give yourself no anxiety about that," said Annie, approach- : ing her. "I have two or three hours to spare, so I will send the I carriage home instead of making some calls as I designed doing, I and I will assist Emma in your place."            X "Oh, you are an angel of mercy. I have often heard your I name coupled with the prayers of the unfortunate; may sorrow i never cause a tear to stain thy fair cheek."  Eulahe was prevailed on to lie down, and Annie sent the car- tage home, telling the driver to return for her at three o'clock. This done, she went to work to assist Emma in arranging the trimmings on Clementina's dress, and before three o'clock they had it nearly completed. When the carriage came to drive her home, she insisted upon driving round and setting Eulalie down at her mother's; for the poor girl was really not able to walk   ...  ..... V, -1lll, was tne aistance she lived from Mrs. Carl- ton's. When Annie arrived at home, her mother was quite in- dignant that she should be obliged to attend the ball without a new dress for the occasion. But Annie was- so happy in the reflection that she had been the means of giving some comfort to a sorrowing heart, that the regrets of her rmother did not affect her. And that evening, if she was not arrayed in a dress of the latest style and most costly material, she was adorned with that which gave her a beauty surpassing that which is derived from the taste and art of the dress-maker. A pure and gentle spirit invests its possessor with charms almost divine. The elegant mansion of the representative of Franoe, is crowded with fashion and beauty. His accomplished lady, with a grace peculiarly her own, receives her guests, and, with a tact which belongs to the French, makes each feel that the evening's enter- tainment would have been incomplete, without his or her presence. Music calls the young and joyous to the dance, whilst the light jest and gay laugh speak of happy hearts; yet even in this brilliant assemblage, where all wear so fair an outside, there are some in whose hearts the feelings of envy and jealousy mar the pleasure they otherwise might enjoy. Clementina Wilkie, as usual, was the centre of an admiring crowd. Near her was a lady who was not remarkable for talent or beauty, but she had the good fortune to be a favorite of Miss Wilkie's, and thus was brought into observation, by being ever near that star of the first magnitude. And it was whispered by some, that the secret of her being regarded so kindly by the beautiful and accomplished Clementina was, that she was ever ready to depreciate, by some unkind remark, the merits of those who possessed qualities likely to render them rivals of the peerless belle. Be that as it may, she was very much disposed to make remarks of not the nst alnia ble character. Clementina was engaged in an animated conver- sation with the Marquis, on the exquisite taste of French ladies in dress; when Annie passed, dressed in a  plain simple white dress, with no ornaments on her person, save a necklace of pearl, and a white rose in her hair. The eye of the Marquis rested on   128        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, her admiringly as she passed, whilst the shadow of a frown flitted over the fair brow of Clementina, which Miss Coats, her friend, observing, remarked: "I think Miss Grayson might have condescended to honor our hostess, by dressing with a little more elegance for her ball." "She could not have dressed more becoming to her style of beauty; she looks like an angel in that pure white robe, una- dorined with jewels." "Perhaps some of her admirers have whispered something of that kind in her ear," said Miss Wilkie, " and that is the reason why she is so plainly attired; it is a very pretty conceit, an angel among us common mortals." "I know, Cousin Clem, why she hasn't got on a new dress," said Jenny Lumpkin, who happened to be near, and heard the above conversation, "she is an angel of goodness." The shadow of a frown upon Miss Wilkie's brow, darkened to a reality, as-she turned to her cousin, and said: "I presume, Miss Lumpkin, it is of no interest to the gentle- men to know why a lady wears a certain dress at a party."- "Oh, yes," said one of the gentlemen, " do, let us hear it." Jenny then related the incidents of the morning, as they oc- curred in Emma Carlton's sewing room, which had been witness- ed by Chloe, and repeated by her to Jenny. When she had con- cluded, the Marquis remarked : "I hope the lady who so unfeelingly persisted upon the change in the trimmings of her dress, will derive as much pleasure from the opportunity of exhibiting herself thus attired, as she inflicted pain upon the poor overworked sewing girl whom she obliged to change it.- 'Tis strange," said he half musingly, " that vanity and love of admiration will make even gentle woman forgetful of her better nature."  At this moment, a gentleman came to claim Clementina's hand for the dance, and the Marquis, turning to Jenny, entered into conversation with her, for her praises of Annie Grayson was music to him. He soon discovered, that although her language had not that elegance and refinement which captivates the listen- er, she had a kind and generous heart, and he listened to her t   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         129 remarks with pleasure. After conversing with her some time, he asked her to promenade with him, and we see our plain coun- try girl, who does not make any pretension to the airs and graces of city life, receiving attention from one who has been an honor- ed guest in the saloons of royalty itself. Annie Grayson could not enter into the spirit of the gay scene about her, for her thoughts frequently reverted to the sad and suffering countenance of that fragile looking creature she had met at Emma Carlton's. She determined to call in the morning, and offer her every kindness in her power, and much was it needed. For whilst all was music and mirth in the mansion of the French Minister, the mother of Eulahe was watching, almost broken hearted, besidesher daughter, who was tossing in a burning fever, which had been brought on by over-exertion, in assisting to prepare the elegant dresses, the presence- of whose wearers added bril- liancy to this gay scene. Very many such pictures of suffering may be seen in Washington, by those who will take the time to look beyond the glittering surface of society. Whilst in one square is reverly and feasting with a profusion amounting to waste, a few doors distant is sickness and sorrow with the most abject want. The child of poverty craves the grateful juice of the orange to cool her fever-parched lips, which the mother has not the means of procuring, whilst the pampered child of wealth will firet because its appetite is satiated, and it does not enjoy the delicacies spread before it. Eulalie Dupre, towards morning, fell into a short slumber, and when she awoke, she said: "Oh, mother! I had such a pleasant dream; I thought we were again in our sunny southern home, and I was picking oranges fresh firoln the trees, and they were so grateful to my taste." "To-morrow, you shall have one, if I do without my breakfast to procure it for you." "And do you suppose I could taste it, when I knew it was procured at such a sacrifice?" "No, darling, that is the trouble; you have sacrificed your health, and would sacrifice your life for my comfort; and yet are unwilling for me to deprive myself of anything for you." "Mother, I am young, and can endure hardships; but it would X    (6*   130        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, be too hard for you, now when you are old, to be deprived of every comfort." - I have one blessing of more worth than the wealth of India. I have an affectionate, generous-hearted child; and whilst heaven spares me my child, I will endeavor to not repine at the losses 1 have sustained." In converse like this, the weary watches of the night wore away; and just as day dawned, both mother and daughter slept, forgetting for awhile their cares.   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        181 CHAPTER XV. JENNYS DESCRIPTION OF CITY LIFE. THE sun was shining brightly into the humble apartment occu- pied by Madame Duprb and her daughter, when Eulalie unclosed her eyes. Her mother still slept; and as she looked upon the beautiful but care-worn features of that idolized mother, she murmured, scarcely audibly,- "Yes-oh, yes, f have-been tempted to commit that great sin of wishing for the rest found in the quiet of the grave, not realizing in the anguish of my heart the wickedness of murmur- ing at the dispensations of divine goodness." Then casting her eyes on a small painting which hung at the foot of the bed, representing Mary and the child Jesus, she extended her hands towards it, and ejaculated, with much fervor,- "Oh, thou Saviour of mankind! who descended to earth and endured all the sorrows that humanity suffers, give me grace and strength to bear, with-a spirit of resignation, the trials that may be mine, feeling they are sent to chasten and purify the spirit, fitting it for heaven. Thou hast promised to care for the widow and orphan, and I will trust in thee." As she uttered the last sentence, a smile indicating a peaceful confiding spirit passed over her beautiful features, for Eulalie Dupre was exquisitely beautiful. When Madame Dupre awoke, she was happy to find the fever which had raged so fearfully during the night, much abated, and Eulalie suffering slightly in comparison to what she had endured. She arose, and of the small stock of fuel with which she was sup- plied, she made a cheerful fire, making the room comfortable.   132       ANNIE GRAYSON; OR., She then prepared a cup of tea and some toast for herself and daughter. Eulalie, although she had no appetite, forced herself to take something for her mother's sake. After partaking of some refreshments, she attempted to rise, but found herself too weak to do so. She sank exhausted on the pillow, saying: "Mother, I will have to lie in bed to-day, but do not be anxious, I shall be well to-morrow; the effects of one night's fever will not last long." Poor child, it was not one night's fever that had reduced her thus. It was the constant unwearied exertion of months; she had overtasked her energies, and now they had given way. The mother, as she pushed back the raven hair from the fair, pale brow-of her child, and gazed into her dark loving eyes, ex- claimed : "Oh, my precious, my only one, I have permitted you to wear out your young life for me; the rose of health has faded from your cheek, and the elasticity which belongs to youth, has given place to the languor of debility. I noted it day by day, and yet was unable to shield you from the constant exertion that was thus wearing your young life away, and now you are laid upon a bed of sickness; what is to become of us!" "Let us put our trust in our heavenly Father: He, who sent the ravens to feed his prophet, will not forget us, if we put our trust in him." "I know not from whence help will come." "Nor I; but I know dear, kind-hearted Emma Carlton will be to see me, and I will ask her to send me work whilst I am unable to go to her room to sew." i   "But, my dear child, you are unable to do anything, if you had the work in the house; you cannot even sit up." !"I will be better to-morrow, dear mother; I prayed for a trusting spirit whilst you slept,-and God in mercy gave it to me. I feel assured he will not permit us to be tried beyond what ' we are able to bear." Whilst she was endeavoring to infuse into the heart of her mother the same faith that sustained her own, Emma, accom- panied by Annie Grayson, called. Annie, with that grace and   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        133 kindness which springs from the heart, addressed Madame Du- pro with as much respect as if she had been mistress of the proudest mansion in Washington. After speaking .to the mother, she approached the bed where the daughter lay, and as she looked upon the pale 'high forehead on which intellect sat en- throned, she took deep interest in that lone girl. Tulrning to Madame Dupre, she said in a low tone that Eulalie night not hear her: ' Madam, having met your daughter at my friend Emma Carl- ton's, where she was quite ill, I took the liberty of calling to in- quire after her health. I am happy to find she is much better; yet her appearance indicates extreme delicacy of constitution, and I fear exposure and exertion might bring upon her that blight of the beautiful-consumption." "Ah, my dear young lady, it is that thought which makes me wretched; but should that be the case, I will not be the first un- fortunate mother who has not been able to shield her child from such a fate. And who, with a breaking heart, has watched day by day, her heart's only treasure engaged in those tasks, which she knew would bring her to an early grave. God only knows the sorrows of the unfortunate." "I would avert such a fate from your daughter. I have rarely I    met any one in whom I felt so great an interest. I have no sis. ter or brother; permit me to be as a sister to your beautiful i ,  daughter, and supply you, until her health is perfectly restored with those comforts which she supplied by her labor. The boun tiful giver of all good, has lavished on me the gifts of fortune and I would manifest my gratitude, by administering to the wants of those who are less fortunate." So kindly and gracefully was assistance offered, that the prouc Madame Dupr6 felt that she could receive it without a feeling of humiliatioal. When Annie left, she placed in her hand her purse saying: "Accept this for your daughter's sake, and tell her she mus permit me to be her friend." "She will be too happy to accept your friendship, for 'tis bu few who seek the friendship of the poor."   134       ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, When they had gone, Eulalie, who had been conversing with Emma whilst her mother was engaged with Annie, said: a Mother, dear, did I not tell you our Heavenly Father would care for us? See here! Emma brought me three dollars, and says I shall have work in the house. So dismiss your fears; we shall not perish for want of fuel to warm us." "And see here!" said the mother, displaying. the purse left by Annie; "this will procure for you some of the delicacies a sick person needs, and will enable you to let sewing alone until you regain your strength. Oh, she is an angel of mercy, sent to drive away the feelings of despair that was gathering about my heart. And she said you must give her your friendship." "Her generous kindness would win all hearts to love her; she is one of the noble beings sent upon earth, that we may not lose our faith in human goodness." Whilst Annie Grayson is soothing the sorrows of the unfor- tunate, by gentle words and generous deeds, Clementina Wilkie is wasting the morning in slumber; and when she does arise, she makes every one within her influence, uncomfortable by her fret- fulness and discontent. The voice of Annie, which was naturally full of music, seemed to become more sweetly musical, from her habit of speaking in gentle tones to soothe sorrowing hearts, and a more elevated and soul-speaking beauty sat upon her features. Nature had been equally kind to Clementina, in be- stowing upon her a voice attuned to sweetest melody, with beauty of the highest order; and she had cultivated the art of conversation, giving to every word a perfect enunciation, and in the blandest tones, giving the most elegant intonation to lan- guage when, in society, sh e was conversing with senators, secre- taries, and gentlemen distinguished for literary and scientific attainments. Yet, her constant indulgence in fault-finding, in harsh, imperious tones, when not in society, was having its effects on her voice; for, sometimes, when excited, she would, unawares to herself, utter a sharp, discordant sentence, which was the more noted from its striking contrast with her usual low, silvery tones. Let us look in and see how Clemehtina is engaged the morning after the ball. She had risen about twelve o'clock, and   "FEL IN WASHNGTON. after rating the servant, for not divining just what moment would choose to rise, and having her breakfastprepared for at that moment, she declares she will not eat any thing, if had to wait for it. Haws, Miss Clementina; I'll have you a good cup of col in five minutes." "That is just five minutes too long; you ought to have ha( ready." "But you knows, Miss, if it ain't right fresh, you won't dri it, and I did not know jest what minit you'd git up." Well, and if I have to wait five minutes, I won't drink i saying this, she left the dining-room and proceeded to her an room. When the cook was assured she was out of hearing, s turned to her fellow-servant and said with a low chuckle- "Now, I   wonder who Miss Clema spites, 'case she don't e nothing, not me  I'm shore! Ilikes to please people, but whE they won't be pleased, I'm not a gwine to fret myself." "I'll tell you what it is," replied the other servant, "I like Miss Jenny a  sight better than I does Miss Clem, and she's moo of a  lady, if she don't look  so grand and palaveringlike befo company." Yes, indeed," answered the cook, " I  calls them ladies what' always  the same thing and knows how to treat servants." Whilst the servants were discussing the qualities of the twe young ladies in the kitchen, Clementina was venting her ill nature by complaining of Jenny's rudeness and want of polish When Clementina entered her aunt's- room, after leaving the dining-room, to her aunt's inquiry, how she felt she replied "Oh wretched, wretched in both body and mind; I  cannot endure the annoyance oft' endure the annoyance of being accompanied by that rude, unpo. lished niece of yours. Whenever I  go to a party, it destroys every particle of my enjoyment." "Why, my dear niece, she does not seem to intrude herself upon you; I   observed last evening, she scarcely came near you the whole evening?",'   136        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, (, But her very presence in the same room mortifies me, be- cause it is known such a rude creature is my cousin." "I think, niece, you are rather prejudiced against poor Jenny, and cannot do her justice; last evening the nephew of our ac- comiplished hostess, paid her the compliment of promenading with her, and you must admit, he is one of the most refined gentlemen to be met in Washington society. And, our hostess herself remarked, there was a simplicity and freshness about her that was very interesting." "That was only a refined way of saying she is an ignorant fool." "I also overheard Annie Grayson telling a gentleman, who inquired who she was, that she was a young lady from the west, and that she possessed many amiable qualities." "Who cares for Annie Grayson's good opinion? She could find amiable qualities in a street beggar." "Well, it was the attention we received from Mrs. Grayson, that enabled us to get into good society." "Ah, Mrs. Grayson is a very different person from Annie. But it's no use talking, for I am determined in future, if Jenny goes to the parties, I will not. So, something must be done to prevent her from going, or I stay at home." st Tell me what to do and I'll do it. Anything to make you satisfied." "I do not know what you can do with her unless you send her to Georgetown to school: there she would be kept close enough." "I will send her there with pleasure if she will go." ta If she will go? I'd make her go!" "That is easier said than done. She has an independent spirit, and a will as unyielding as yours when she determines on a thing. But she has been kind and affectionate to me, and com- plied with every wish I have expressed. I will propose it to her." After having made her aunt thoroughly uncomfortable, she went into the parlor, where she found Jenny seated at the piano, L                    "FE IN WASHNGTON.         137 amusing herself by thumping upon its keys and singing as loud -as she could. Clementina, who was in no amiable humor before, was now almost furious; and, in an angry voice, she exclaimed,-- "It is more than human patience can bear to have a coarse country bore like you stuck up in the parlor to annoy me with your boisterous screeching." Jenny, who was very quick to observe everything, had caught many of Clementina's elegant phrases: and could imitate her manner and voice precisely. Without leaving her seat,-she turned towards her with a look brimful of mischief, dand said,-- "Is it the lute-toned voice of the starry-eyed Miss Wilkie, that greets me?" "I believe you are an imp of the devil;!" "' What exceedingly beautiful language'! it vibrates upon my spirits-chords like soft, sweet music." "If I had my way, I would turn you into the street." "I have not the least doubt but you would, fair lady; but that would be no great hardship either, for I learn, from the daily conversation of our lady visitors, that good servants are scarce in the city; and as I learned to do all kinds of house- work when. at home, I am sure I could soon get a good situation as servant, and would not that be a good subject for gossip-the cousin of the accomplished Clementina Wilkie a servant!" "That is all you are fit for'; and I do wish you were at home milking cows, feeding pigs, and such other employment suited to you." "Thank you, Miss Wilkie, for your'kind wishes : I would love dearly to see my cabin-home-there is kindness and love there, if not elegance. I believe you are passionately fond of music, fair lady, and in return I will favor you with some ;" and, turning to the piano and beating its keys violently, she commenced singing: So you wish I was in Illinois, A milking of the kine, Toting the calves to pasture, Or feeding of the swine:   138        ANNIE GRAYSUJN j uK, Or hunting of the hen's nests, In the stable, 'mong the hay, I've performed these tasks right blithely, In my merry childhood's day. I've plucked the prairie flowers, In the joyous months of spring, And chased the painted butterfly, That gayly spreads its wing; When voices of glad music, Were heard all o'er the plain,- I dearly love my humble home ; Would I were there again. As she sang the last stanza, her voice became softened and subdued, as if the memory of a happy picture were called up. The spirit of mischief and mocking died out in her heart, and in her eye a tear glistened. Rising, she approached Clementina, saying: "Cousin Clem, I would love you if you would let me; my heart yearns for love and kindness. I know I am uneducated, and in that respect vastly your inferior; but when you remind me, in taunting words, of the immeasurable difference between us, it rouses the quick spirit in my bosom, and I use taunting words in reply, but I regret it as soon as it is passed. Let us in future avoid such things. I admire your beauty, and when I listen to your conversation with the gentlemen who frequently visit here, I am delighted. If you would only cultivate the heart as well as the intellect, what a peerless, glorious creature you would be." I   "Your compliments and advice are as annoying as your taunts," was the reply of the spoiled beauty. Jenny, without saying any thing more, went to her room. She naturally possessed a fine mind, as well as a good heart, and she had improved much, by her short association with culti- vated and intellectual society. When the deep emotions of her heart were. touched, she expressed herself with elegance, con- sidering her want of education. But she was full of mischief, and when her cousin provoked her too far, she would retaliate, by assuming the manner and language of the most ignorant booby.   "F' IN WASHNiTON.       1J As she had remarked, her heart craved love and sympath She threw herself into a seat, and a train of thought somethil like this, passed through her mind. "I would not exchange Ir own humble home, with its sweet affections, for the elegant ma sion of my aunt, with the heartlessness and want of generoi sympathies of its inmates. True, I covet knowledge, and i refining influences; but if, by acquiring it, I lose the generol impulses that are now swelling in my bosom, I would not po sess it; for the most ennobling passion of earth, is sympath for, and a desire to make our fellow-beings happy. But it is r use to sit here thinking and moping. I will go and write a le ter home." "MY DEAR BROTHERS,-I promised you, when I left home, 1 describe everything I saw in Washington. I have not kept m promise very well, but I will endeavor to do better in future. am growing very wise since I came to this city, where the wi, men of the nation assemble every winter. I have learned mo] of life and human nature, during the few weeks I have been her than I would have done at home in an age. I have tested tl truth of the adage, that, "All is not gold that glitters." Thei is much tinsel, which one at the first glance, would believe to I gold, but it would not bear a close examination. Yet, there much true gold. However, I sat down to describe, not moraliz Well, I will commence by describing a party I attended at tl French Minister's. X Astonishing!"I fancy I hear you exclaim "It can't be possible that our sister, was at a party at a Foreig Minister's house." Well, it's the truth, and what is more, I a tually promenaded-that means walked-through the roomswil a real nobleman. I reckon you are very curious to know whi nobility are like. Well, I'll tell you, they are just like oth, people. I always had an idea that if I were to see a noblemai I would feel kind of scared, and would not know what to sal but rll declare, last evening I felt more at my ease, while tl Marquis was talking to me, than I do when in the society of mo of the people I meet in Washington.-He talked to me about tl prairies in Illinois, the Mississippi river, and all such things.   "O        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, seemed like he knowed I could talk much better about them than anything else, and asked about them on purpose. I've found out what true politeness is, it is to make those in your society feel easy and comfortable, and that is what the French people do, and that is the reason why they are called the politest nation in the world. Now, a great manly of our people think the way to show politeness, is to take on themselves grand airs, as much as to say, see how polite and genteel I am, but I've found that is not true politeness. Oh, I've learned sights of things since I came here. The real lady never takes any airs: on herself, it is she that pretends to be something, and even a country girl like me, can see the difference between those that think they are I ladies, because they have got money to buy fine clothes, and i those what are true ladies. Law, I have written my whole letter and have not described anything; well, next time I write, I'll de- scribe the Senate and House of Representatives. Give my love to papa and mamma, and all the children. E-          "Your loving sister, "JENNY LUMPKIN." Jenny had just finished her letter when her aunt came into the room. After speaking about the ball of the preceding evening, s she proposed to Jenny to go to school. Jenny heard the pro- position with pleasure, and Clementina will soon be rid of her annoy ance. *..              r -      t   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         1 f           .. CHAPTER XVI. FREDERICK MEETS A FRIEND OF HS CHLDHOOD. IT was one of those bright wintry days, that makes the heart bound with animation, and which calls forth the beauty and fashion of Washington, when Annie entered the parlor, equipped for a  walk. She observed her cousin leaning upon the centre- table, seemingly absorbed in painful thoughts. Approaching "Come, cousin Fred, I will not permit you to indulge in sad and gloomy reflections this bright morning; you must go out and make some calls with me." "No, no, dear Annie, my heart is the sepulchre of blighted hopes, and I cannot mingle with the glad and gay." It is not the glad and gay I design visiting, but the suffering and unfortunate. Come with me, and by alleviating their suffelr- ings, you will lighten the load of grief that wuighs upon your "Here, take my purse, and use its contentsfor the relief of the poor, but do not ask me to accompany you; for, the bright- ness of the day,  by its contrast with the darkness of my spjit seems a  mockery of my feelings."  "I insist upon your accompanying me this once. I am goin8g? to call on a poor widow and her daughter. I met the-daugh:'- at Mrs. Carlton's; they once resided in thesouth. Eulalie, the daughter, is one of the most spirituelle looking creatures I ever "In my   boyhood, I had a playmate of that name; well do I remember her. We   were much together, for she was the god-   "2        ANNIE GBAYSON; O0, child of my mother; she was dear to me as a sister. I was a wild wayward boy, and she was a sweet gentle being, with thoughts and 'eelings beyond her years. I remember, as if it were yesterday, how, at the sweet sunset hour, when I would be rolling my hoop, or bouncing my ball, she would call to me% saying: "Come, Freddy, do come sit by me, and let us talk about the beautiful sunset;" Sometimes, I would do as she wished me, and when the rays of the departing orb of light would tinge the clouds with purple and gold, she would ask me, if I did not think God sent his angels to paint the sky, to give us an idea of the beauty of Heaven, and make us good children, that we might go there. Frequently, I would make some light reply, and she would gaze on me with her dark dreamy eyes, as if she would read my heart, and say: '"Oh, Freddy, I atn afraid you are a naughty boy, and do not think enough about Heaven." I have not seen or heard from her for many years. After the death of my mother, her father sold his plantation, removed to New Orleans, and engaged in mercantile business. For a time, we kept up a correspondence, children as we were. At length, I became negligent; finally, our correspondence ceased, and l have never heard anything from her since. If she be living, she must be beautiful and gifted, and an ornament to the society in which she mingles." Well, will you accompany me ." "Yes, for the name of your protege has slightly dissipated the stagnation that was gathering round my heart, and called up memories of by-gones years, with something like a pleasurable emotion." Let us go immediately, and when you see her, you will feel some interest in tie present." Ist had been several days since the ball, and Eulahe was able to sit up. When Annie and her, cousin called, they found her lone, her mother having stepped out to see a sick child. As they entered, Eulalie raised her eyes, and ere Annie had time to present her cousin, he was by her side, had seized her hand, and inquired if her name was not Eulalie Dupr6. , "It is," she replied.   LtIFE IN WAS:ING TON.       148 "' Have you forgotten me, Frederick Leroux, the playmate of your chilihood?" "Oh no, the memory of that happy period often recurs to me. But so changed are you, I should not have known you." "And you too, how changed you are I! But your eyes are the same: I recognized you the moment you raised them to my face."1 "I did not know you were in the city." "Nor did I dream of meeting -you. But you have been un- fortunate. How is it that I see the daughter of the wealthy planter occupying this mean abode V' "The old story-fortune lost by abused confidence." X But why did you not apply to me? I have wealth more than I can use; and who has so good a right, as my mother's god- child, to share it with me?" "Had Iny god-mother lived, I should have felt no delicacy in applying to her, when misfortune came upon us; but to you I could not apply. With my father's loss of fortune, came estrange. ment of friends. I am happy to learn that fortune has been propitious, and no shadow has darkened the pathway of the play. mate of my childhood." "Ah, my cherished friend, there are other sorrows beside the loss of fortune, that cast a shadow dark as night on the future; but of that we will not speak. I am alone in this dreary world; you must, for nmy sainted mother's sake as well as my own, per- mit me to be a brother to you. You and your mother must accompany me to my home in the South, and time may enable us to forget the sorrows we have endured." 4 Oh, that will be happiness, to see my dear mother pleasantly situated in the sunny clime, where the happiest hours of her life were passed! It was seeing her deprived of all the comforts to which she had been accustomed, that made me feel so keenly our losses." Whilst they were conversing, Mrs. Dupre returned, and Fred insisted that she should give him the privilege of acting as if he were -her own son, and she should permit him to procure her :boarding until they could return to hise home in Losiana ,Sbhe   "4        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, told hinm she could accept much from the son of the most che- rished friend of her youth; but she felt that that would be taxing his kindness too far. However, she was prevailed on to accept his offered kindness; and in compliance with her wish, that he should procure a- situation in some quiet private house, he got his cousin to call upon Mrs. Stanmore, and ask her to give them a home in her house during the winter. Mrs. Stantnore said she would be happy indeed to do so, for Edwin wished to return to his western home, and yet remained on account of his unwilling- ness to leave her alone. Mrs. Dupre and her daughter removed immediately to Mrs. Stanmore's, and ere a month had passed, Eulahe had recovered her health; and her amiability so won the heart of Mrs. Stanmore, that she told Annie she felt dis- posed to claim her as her own. And Frederick Leroux, who could not be prevailed on to mingle in gay society, was fre- quently a visitor at this quiet mansion. Eulalie, who had for him the regard of a sister, endeavored to rouse him from the deep melancholy that preyed upon him, by every means she could devise. When she would speak to him of the future, and what his native state expected of him with his education and talents, he would reply, with a mournful voice,- "You do not know how heart-broken I am." "But, you should not yield to such despondency," urged she: "it is unmanly --unworthy the proud, high-spirited boy, who was the playmate of my childhood. Do you remember the high aspirations that swelled in vour boyish bosom?--how you used to tell me of the high positions you meant to attain in the coun- cils of the nation?" "Yes' I remember them; but a brighter dream than that of fame crossed my spirit. Now that the vision of beauty and goodness that called it up has passed from earth, I can only brood over the past. You have never -loved, or you would know how' I feel." A slight blush suffused her cheek as she replied: "Yes, I have loved; and the dream that, for a time, lent a warmer, brighter hue to life, was destined, like your own, to   !- leave me with an aching, hopeless heart. Would you hear the   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         145. incidents of my life since we played together beneath the orange groves of your own beautiful home? It will perhaps while away an hour." "Yes, Eulalie, tell them to me: I feel more interested in you than any other human being, for you mingled your tears with mine over the grave of my mother-the first real grief that ever fell on my heart. And the second was the loss of my little playmate when your father moved to New Orleans; and who could then have imagined our next meeting would be in the Federal city, under circumstances so changed . But tell me how that change came about." "When my father moved to New Orleans and engaged in the mercantile business, for a time success crowned all his under. takings, and he was considered one of the wealthiest men of the city. When I had completed my education, and was presented to society, I was surrounded with admirers, for my father was wealthy. I listened to their compliments and fine speeches with indifference, for none of them came up to my ideal of the being upon whom the deep love, of which I knew my heart capable, was to be bestowed. "Whilst at school, I had contracted a friendship with a girl about my own age; she was an orphan, both her parents being dead; she had an only brother, who though poor, edu-. cated his sister, by denying himself every recreation and plea- sure that the young are fond of indulging in. Julia Peyton and I, completed our education at the same time. The- evening pre- vious to our leaving school, I was enumerating the many plea. sures I anticipated, and asked Julia if she did not rejoice in the prospect of being emancipated from school. "'No,' she replied, 'for whilst we are in the convent walls, the distinctions which the world makes between the rich and poor are not felt. But when we go forth in society, then must the pathway of the rich merchant's daughter, and the poe r clerk's sister, diverge widely. It will be painful for me to give up that intercourse, which for the past two years, has given me so much pleasure. You will not miss the society of poor Julia Peyton, for friends will crowd around the beautiful, accomplished and   , 14^      A-XiM   OARToxb Dsi wealthy Eulalie Dupre. Whilst I shall have none, save my brother, to speak a kindly word to me.' I replied to her, 'And do you think me so heartless as to let the want of wealth be a barrier to our friendship.  No, indeed, I will visit you more frequently than I do any other friends.' " She gave me her address ere we parted, and true to my pro. mlse, I called on her in a few days, She arid her brother occu- pied a sweet little cottage surrounded by a garden. The jasmine was trained over the window, the rose and sweet briar were beside the door, shedding their perfume on the gentle breezes, that made music round the eaves of that lowly home. Though the home was lowly, its inmates were possessed of a high order of intellect, Charles, the brother, after the toils of the day were passed, devoted himself to study; he was a severe student, pre- paring himself for the bar. But I will not describe him, suffice it to say, in him I found my ideal, and poured out my heart's deep affections on him. Summer glided by and winter was ushered in. It was one of unusual gayety,  Ere its close I had several offers of marriage, but to the surprise of my father, I re- fused them all.: Among my numerous suitors, was one of the partners of the, house in which Charles was employed. One evening, just as the sweet spring flowers were bursting into bloom, I called to see Julia; when her brother came in, - he seemed sad and dispirited, I laughingly asked, 'how it was possible to wear so gloomy a face in the joyous spring time ?' "'When the heart is sad,' replied he, 'a shadow will naturally rest on the brow,' " "' But why should your heart be sad V. so' (I have learned to regard your visits to Julia, as the bright spots of my monotonous life/ "' Then, why look so grave at finding me here V' "I scarce know what was his answer; but before I returned home that evening, he had declared his love in burning words that found a response in my own heart. A few days after, Mr. Beekman, his employer, urged his suit: I refused him; he ap- pealed to my father, who was desirous to see me united to him. My father wished me to reconsider the matter, and probably I M.    I            LIFE IN WASHNGTON.         147 would give him a favorable answer: I told him it was useless, that my heart was already engaged. He insisted upon knowing upon whom I had bestowed my affections, and when he learned it was a clerk in the employ of Mr. Beekman, he was perfectly furious. He forbid me visiting Julia again, saying he had toler- ated our intimacy, because he thought his daughter too proud to be in any danger of falling in love with a clerk. I told him, although fortune had acted the step-dame toward Charles, nature  had bestowed on him her choicest gifts. However, my father determined I should not see him again, for, in a few days, he an- nounced to me his intention of spending the sumnmer in the North. I called and bade adieu to Julia and her brother ere we departed. Sad indeed was that parting, for my father had called and heaped reproaches on Charles for stealing the affections of his daughter. His proud sensitive spirit was deeply wounded.  We   parted sadly, I to mingle in gayeties for which I had no relish, he to en- gage in the duties of his station. When we returned in the fall, I resolved to see my friends again. I called at the cottage, but found it occupied by strangers. To my inquiries respecting its foirmer inmates, they could give no answer. Not long after out return from the North, the commercial and fashionable circles of New Orleans were startled by the announcement that my father was a bankrupt. Large speculations, entered into by his partner during his absence, had turned out unfortunate, and they were obliged to suspend payment. My father gave up everything to his creditors. My mother had a small estate; this she disposed of, and we were persuaded by a friend to come to Washington, and he would procure a situation for my father in some of the public offices. But before leaving the Crescent City, I was sorely tried. Mr. Beekman again sought my hand. My father, whose spirit seemed broken by the unlooked for misfortune that had reduced him from affluence to poverty, begged me to accept him, saying I was unfit to brave the trials of poverty, but was formed to grace the position I had occupied, and which might still be mine. It was hard for me to resist the earnest entreaty of my father, and the mute appeals of my mother's sorrowful face; yet, I had courage to be true to myself, and not sacrifice the better   S    148       ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, portion of my nature for gold. My father finding me inflexible in my determination, we came to this city. The friend who had induced my father to come, wrote to the Secretary of State, who was a relation of his, that a situation given to my father would be esteemed a personal favor. My father, immediately after our arrival in the city, called at the Secretary's residence, but was told that it was not the hour that the Secretary received visitors. The next day he called at the State department, and had the extraordinary good fortune to.be permitted to see the Secretary. He presented the letter to him, and as it was from a particular friend, he actually read it, which, we afterwards learned, was a great act of condescension on his part. When he had finished reading it, he turned to father, telling him to call again, as he was very busy to-day, but he would be happy to oblige his friend by serving him, and he should be attended to at his earliest con- venience. -My father returned with a lighter heart in his bosom than he had felt since his failure; he was confident, ere a week should have passed, he would be provided with a situation, which, if it did not enable him to live in the style to which he had been accustomed, would keep his wife and child from actual want, and for this he would be thankful. The week passed, and he called again on the Secretary. This time he did not see him. He called again and again, but with the same success; he was always engaged, or out, or some other excuse. At length my father became thoroughly discouraged, and would call no more. The money we had brought with us, was fast disappearing. Some- thing must be done; so I called myself upon the wife of the Secretary, stated our situation, and asked her to interest herself for us; she promised to do so, telling me at the same time, she doubted whether any thing could be done for us. "My father now wrote to the Secretary, asking for a candid answer, whether he would receive a situation or not. He was assured he would receive one. Week after week passed by. It has been said, 'Hope deferred, makes the heart sick;" in this instance, it made the body sick too, for my father was now pros- trated on a bed of sickness, brought on by anxiety and care. He lingered a few weeks, and then died; and the day before his    "FE 'IN WASHNGTON.        149 death, we received a communication notifying him of his appoint- ment to a situation, with a salary of twelve hundred dollars a year. I felt indignant, and might have been unjust, for I fancied the Secretary, and those having patronage, considered it a kind of stock belonging to them, to trade on, and attach as many political friends to themselves as possible. I imagined they knew that my father was at the point of death, and they had sent him the appointment, knowing he could not live, to satisfy the friend who had recommended him, as he possessed miuch influence with his party in his own State, and when my father died, they could use the appointment to bestow upon the protege of some other politician, thus adding another to their list of supporters. Now, Ido not blame those having the appointing power, for not giving office to all that apply, for that would be impossible, as the num- ber of applicants is so great; but when they have no situation to give, they should say so candidly, and relieve the applicant from that suspense and uncertainty which wears the spirit out, and prevents him from seeking other business. But I am di- gressing from the incidents of my own life. After the death of my father, when we had defrayed all the expenses attendant upon his sickness, our stock of money was very small, and the shock of grief fell so heavily on my mother, that she was incapable of attending to ady thing. chased the scant supply of furniture you saw, and removed im- mediately from our boarding house, telling the ladies in the house, I would deem it a favor if they would permit me to do any sew- ing they wished to have done. They gave me sewing; but it was making of shirts, and I soon saw, that, at the prices paid, we could not keep actual want from the door; consequently, I sought employment with a mantua-maker, and was so fortunate as Lo be- employed by Emma Carlton, who was considerate and kind al- ways paying me extra, when we were crowded with work. Not- withstanding my exertion, we had to deny ourselves many of the comforts of life; and sometimes, when I would look on my mo.   ly Ather Gwhoto          I l      o it ther, who had been accustomed to life's luxuries, deprived of its comforts, my heart would reproach me with selfishness, that I had not sacrificed myself, by marrying one whom I did not love, thus securing her a comfortable home. In time, another anxiety was added to the many that already oppressed me. I felt that my health was failing: the exertion I was obliged to make was more than my eonstitution was able to bear; and the thought of what would become of us when I was unable to earn the pittance that sustained us, haunted me day and night. I would endeavor to reassure myself, by saying, God will not forsake those who trust in him; but my heart was sad. However, the event has proved that, in the hour of need, he did not firsake us, but sent us succor, by the hand of yourself and cousin. And I now feel that I have nmuch to be thankful for, notwithstanding the bright dream of love that glowed in my bosom has ended in sorrow. I will endeavor to manifest my gratitude by an active, useful life; and I trust you will not be found to possess less strength of character than a girl, but will shake off the lethargy of grief that is paralyzing your energies, and devote the talents, with which you are so eminently gifted, to the service of your coun- try." "Eulalie, you have taught me a lesson that I will profit by, and no longer brood over my heart's blighted hopes. But there is a difference between us: my happiness was dashed from me by my own folly." Or rather by the art of a cunning, heartless woman." "I trust, she may suffer the pangs I have endured." "That is an unchristian sentiment, and should not be permitted to dwell in your bosom. Think not of the past; but look to the future." "Henceforth, that shall be my motto. As I cannot love again, I will woo fame; and you shall see me 'occupy a high place in the councils of my country."   "FE IN WASHTWGTON.        151 [   ;         CHAPTER XVII. A DINNER-PARTY. "CARDS for a dinner-party at Mrs. Parkinson's," said Annie Grayson, handing an invitation to Frederick Leroux: "you pro- mised you would overcome the morbid melancholy that is steal- ing over you. Shall 1 say accepted for you?" "I would rather it had been any other place than there. It is exceedingly unpleasant for me to be in the society of Clementina Wilkie. However, you may decide for me." "I think it will be better to accept, as it will be a gratification to mamma, and I love to give her a pleasure when I can do so consistent with my notions of right." "You are, dear girl, a true-souled woman, and I will be guided by your counsel whilst I remain in the city. Had I done so sooner, I would not now- But of that I will not speak. Hence- forth, the past will be buried deep in my bosom, and the present and future shall constitute my life. I will mingle in society, practice all the graceful courtesies of life, without any heart, for that is what passes current in Washington. Mere externals, a fine display, without any regard to moral elevation or purity." "Nay, nay, cousin Fred, you should not say the society of Washington. They to whom you allude, are the trading politi. cians, adventurers, and fashionable ladies, who are drawn to the Federal city during the sessions of Congress. But, among -the true society of Washington, you will find as high a standard of morals, and as much Christian charity, as in anyother city in the world. But these virtues do not meet the eye of the visitor and stranger: they are quiet and unobtrusive, whilst the frivolity   152        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, and vain show of the heartless and pleasure-seeking crowd, attract the attention of all." "I know, cousin Annie, you are all that is noble, generous, and kind, with a heart to feel for, and a hand to alleviate the sorrows of your fellow creatures; but where can you point me tdo another like yourself?" "There are many who devote as much to ameliorating the sorrows of the unfortunate as I, but you must go into abodes of misery to recognize them." But we will look in on Clementina Wilkie, who is seated be- side the centre-table receiving the answers to the invitations that had been sent out. When she received a note from Annie Gray- son, containing an acceptance for all the family, including her cousin, something like a flush of triumph passed over her fea- tures, as she mentally exclaimed,--"I feared Frederick Leroux would avoid me, but, fortunately for my plans, he has accepted my aunt's invitation. Let me but get his society, and I can fas- OF,  cinate him. I know all his tastes and preferences, as well as his weak points. He is a great admirer of personal beauty, and has a keen appreciation of fine language-these are mine; and now that death has removed Ella Stanmore, I can attach him to my- self." But she forgot in her calculations, that a true woman's heart was above all else, and in that she was wanting.    The day of the dinner-party has arrived, the guests are assem- bled, the table is spread with every luxury that wealth can pro- cure to tempt the palate of the sated epicure. Wine sparkles in the cup, and ere the close of the banquet, not, only gentlemen, but fair ladies, had partaken of the juice of the grape, until they were scarcely aware of what they uttered. Annie Grayson looked on with pained feelings, resolving, as far as her influence -I  would extend, to repress that tendency to dissipation, which seemed to be increasing among those who should be above the Indulgence of such degrading appetites, She has seen the bril- liant orator, and elegant scholar, reduced to the lowest state of degradation, by intoxication. And this love of drink had been acquired at these expensive banquets. Whilst many of the guests were boisterous, Clementina, who   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        158 was seated beside Frederick, was busy with the thought of en- I   grossing his attention. After conversing with him some time, she remarked, as if casually: Mr. Leroux, we have seen but little of you in society of late; I thought you were perhaps about to turn recluse, and renounce the pleasures of life." "No, I only withdrew for a time, that. I might renew, by com- muning with my own spirit, the purer, better feelings of my na- ture; for, by being constantly engaged in the pursuit of light 1   pleasures, the soul naturally loses that purity which assimilates i man to the heavenly beings, and that elevation of sentiment which calls forth the highest aspirations of his nature, and he becomes the slave of debasing appetites and ignoble passions."' I    As he concluded his remark, he cast his eyes around the table, 1  as much as to say, here is a proof of the truth of what I have said. Clementina understood his glance, and replied: "It is to be regretted that those who belong to the best society, should so far forget themselves as to indulge in excess; but yet' X   that is no reason why persons should deny themselves the pleas- ures of society, because some who mingle in it, fall beneath our i  standard of what society should be. But we will not discuss this matter now ; call to-morrow evening, and let us have a game of chess. There is something rational in that." "You will excuse me, but I have become indifferent to chess playing." "We will have some music." "Even that cannot attract me." "What does interest you?" "Reading, study, thought." "You are about to turn philosopher, I presume." "I have some such thought, and the first subject I intend -to investigate and analyze, will be the heart of a woman of fashion." ' That will be an intricate subject; and if you should be able to thoroughly understand it, you will rival Solomon himself in wisdom." Ere the dinner had come to a close, Clementina, with her quick - t   "        ANNIE GRAYSBON; OB, perception of character, was convinced that she could never again exert an influence over the aristocratic and tich Southron. She could not divine the cause, for she was not aware that her utter heartlessness and want of feeling were known to him. Although she-knew not the cause, she was convinced of the fact, and re- solved to waste no more smiles and fine speeches on him. When they returned home in the evening; Mr. Grayson ob- served his daughter was more than usually thoughtful. And to his inquiry as to the cause, she replied: t"I was thinking of asking a favor of you." "What is it, my darling X you know I never refuse you any. thing." "But this is something more than common." "It shall be granted, cost what it may." "It will not cost anything." "Well, what is it?" "That you will dispense with wine at your next dinner party." "That is an uncommon request; but what put such an idea into your head '" "The witnessing of an indulgence in wine drinking to such an excess, that it amounted to actual intoxication, at the dinner parties of these who are deemed the first-in society. We look upon the poor drunken loafer in the street, with loathing. And is drunkenness less. debasing, because it is occasioned by sipping wine at a gentleman's table?" "But custom has rendered it necessary to have wine; it is considered an indispensable part of the feast." "Yet, is it not better to violate a custom that has so injurious an effect, than to conform to it " '"True, it would be much better, but then to do so would sub- iect one to unpleasant remark." "To remark it might subject you; but the usages of society are such, that how much so ever our guests might be surprised at the absence of wine on your table, they would not betray it by word or look. I am sure you are not one to be deterred from doing what you conceive to be right, on account of what a babbling world may say. I look upon this wine drinking as a   "En E IN WASH NGTON.        165 very great evil, and the more .so because it is so insidious in its advances. I have myself observed gentleman, who came here from different parts of the Union as members of the national legislature: when they first came here,-they would scarcely take a glass of wine; but in time, by being frequenters of dinner parties, they would contract a fondness for wine, and I believe to this cause is to be attributed those disgraceful sCenes that some times occur in the halls of Congress, among those who should shed honor upon their positions, instead of bringing disgrace upon theni. Every debauch a man indulges in, lessens, in some degree, his self-respect, and his respect for his country. And what is worse still, it is at these dinners ladies also take so much wine, that they descend from that purity and sacredness that should characterize our sex." "Why, my little daughter should turn temperance lecturer! She is really eloquent." "Father dear, do not ridicule me, I am seriously earnest in what I am saying*" "Well, my darling, I feel the truth of what you say, but am reluctant to grant your request." However, Annie with her earnest persuasion, prevailed on her father to discard wine from his table, and he gave her the money he designed spending for its purchase, to distribute in charity. And how much better its use.-If woman will only be true to her better nature, how unbounded her influence for good. If she would listen less to the promptings of vanity, a weakness said to belong peculiarly to her, many of the foibles that now mar the beauty of her character would be avoided- Whilst Annie was ever busy in alleviating the distress, and soothing the sorrows of others, her own heart grew sad in her bosom, for she had heard through various channels, that!Edwin Stanmore, who was regarded as one of the most promising and talented young men of the West, was about to wed an accom- plished and beautiful lady of St. Louis. She loved Edwin with a depth and devotedness, such as only the good and true are cap- able of feeling. Yet, she had never permitted herself to-analyze the feelings with which she regarded him. But when she heard   156        ANNIE GRAYSON; O,- he was about to wed another, she ,was made aware that every bright hope of the future had been interwoven with thoughts of him. It was like a rude awakening from a pleasant dream, but she did not faint, nor yield to frenzied despair, according to the most approved manner of novel heroines. Yet, when she retired to her own room, she recalled the past, with its happy memories and sweet associations, then looked to the future, breathing a prayer-for strength to bear her crushed hopes without despond- ency. Despite her efforts, there were times when an overpow. ering sadness would creep over her spirits; but instead of yield- ing to it, she would visit some suffering fellow creature, and lose a sense of her own sorrow in sympathy for the woes of others. But let us leave Washington for a time, and transport our readers to the sanctum of the Quincy editor. He is absorbed in a deep reverie. Of what is he thinking Perhaps of some bril- liant editorial that will add to the reputation he has already ac. quired, as a superior writer. Or, it may be, he is meditating some political manceuvre that will advance the interests of his party, and secure to himself political advancement. No, no, it is not of these he is thinking. But let us listen, for he gives ut. terance to the thoughts that are passing through his mind: "I would that I had breathed my love to Annie when I last visited Washington; perchance, if she knew my heart's long cherished deep devotion, it would call forth a corresponding sentiment in her bosom. But my pride restrained me; I wished to attain a position that, even her vain, haughty mother might not look down upon. X I trust another year it will be attained. I have every reason to believe I will be chosen o - represent my district in the halls of Congress. That has been the aim of my life since boyhood, and it was love of Annie that-nerved me to pursue it so untiringly. "Yet, ere that time, she may be the bride of another, and then success would scarce be worth possessing. Oh, how I have worshiped her, and she is worthy of the noblest heart's adoration. She has been the leading star of my life. And with what kind, ness her sympathy has been given in every sorrow. With such an angel ever by my side, earth would be a paradise."   "FE IN WASHTNGTON.        157 Thus, we see, whilst Annie was endeavoring to efface his image from her heart, because she thought his lovewas given to another, every hope of happiness, that was cherished by him, centered in her; and, could she have known it, she would have been spared many sad hours. Her step became less elastic, and her cheek grew a shade paler, but none noted it, save Eulalie Dupr6. She noted it, and divined the cause; for she had observed, during the few days that Edwin had remained at home after she became an inmate of his mother's house, that, in his presence, Annie's cheek assumed a brighter glow, .and her voice a softer tone; and, having loved herself, she knew how to interpret these symptoms. Had Annie trusted herself to speak of Edwin with as much freedom as she had formerly done, she would have been undeceived with regard to his rumored marriage. But she never breathed his' name; and Mrs. Stanmore, who supposed she had ceased to feel an interest in his success, did not as she had been in the habit of doing, read his letters to her. This, Annie supposed, was caused by the letters refering to his marriage; and she was glad that Mrs. Stanmore did not read them to her, for she felt that she would not have endured to listen to the reading of such a letter. Notwithstanding her true piety, and her endeavor to keep her- self actively engaged, she, at times, felt that life was a weariness, and she would gladly sleep in the quiet of the grave, beside Ella, the playmate of her childhood. Although she did not entertain these thoughts willingly, the deepest remorse would seize her, that she had permitted them to enter her heart, for she deemed it a murmuring against the dispensation of God. How much of unhappiness, in this life, arises from misapprehension. WY.'*' ' .-,   is8        AjSIM TRBhYSOS; Ofi  CHAPTER XVIII. THE BROKEN ENGAGEMENT. IT is a drear, cold morning. The fast-falling snow almost I darkens the light of day, whilst the chill wintry winds sweep through the streets and avenues, sending a feeling of sad for. boding to the heart of the toil-worn widowed mother, as she looks upon her thinly-clad children, and scant supply of fuel.  Winter, which is the time of trial and suffering to the poor, is ! the season of mirth and pleasure to the wealthy. Mrs. Parkinson and her two nieces are comfortably seated in her-luxurious parlor, discussing a party they had attended the X previous evening. Clementina, who happened to be in an amia ble mood, actually condescended to chat pleasantly, when she i had no auditors but the members of her own family.      . It is a singular fact, but nevertheless^:rue, that many of those ] angelic creatures, who nightly assemblein the brilliantly-lighted  saoons, making them almost a paradise, 'ith ,heir sweet strains  of music, witching smiles, and softly-murmured poetic thoughts, use their entire supply of amiability for these bccasions, leaving none for home consumption. Fathers and mothers are regarded by them as mere conveniences furnish them with money, and keep their French-worked fine. v ,i isiting order. As for younger brothers and sisters, they annoyances that have no right to an existence; and if they happen to intrude themselves tathd part of the house sacred t c ^issland her visitors, the. a? box on the ears that sends tim reeling, and perhap-:# g from the room. Cle'ieni.:. belongs to this class, but.: morning she was in -ln i' ual mood. What has had 'l:     ^^ff^        *  v  . ^ * s,^?*W   Lf -illS 1WASTfNt&GO :i      lij kindly influence upon her? Let us listen to her conversation; perhaps we may learn. "Aunt, how did you like the appearance of the gentleman who waited on me at supper last evening?"            { He is a fitie-looking man."' "I have made a conquest of him, he is perfectly fascinated." "Who is he 'll "Judge C -, a new tnember from one of the Western States; and I see, by Mrs. Royal's notice of him in her last week's paper, that he is unmarried anid very w ealthy. So, upon the whole, I think it quite a feather in my cap, to make a con- quest of him. Rich, intellectual, and a member of Congress.'" "A member of Congress," repeated Jenny  "It seems to me, you Washington people think nobody but members of Congress are worth a thought. Well, well, we have hundreds of- men at home, just as good as those we send to Congress, and perhaps better than some of them; for, it is not always the man who possesses the most merit that comes to Congress, but he who has- the gift of electioneering to the most advantage; and sometimes they stoop to little trickery that a ireal gentleman will not de- sctend to. Now,- just fancy one of your-finely dressed, dignified Congressmen, who makes such a display as he promenades the Avenue, seated in- rude log cabin, with a dirty-faced; ragged youngster sitting upon each knee, he pulling a handkerchief from his pocket, and brushing a little of the dirt from about their chops, so that he can kiss them without its producing the effect of an emetic, declaring all the time they are the sweetest little darlings he ever saw; or, in canvassing, the district, he may, toward night fall, happen upon some comfortable farm house, where there are two or three grown up daughters, sprightly, industrious, sensible girls, and the father, of course, very proud of them. Our would-be Congressman, who wants the vote of the old "man, sets about playing the agreeable to the daughters, is the surest way of securing it. But he does not play the agreeable by quoting poetry, going into ecstacies over the last new song, or almost expiring with .delight at the recollection of the latest polka, as he wouiid do were e a ddessing a city 1le la   160        ANNIE ORAAYSON; OR, Oh, no, this is not the mode to be pursued here. He would be considered an upstart, conceited jackanapes, unworthy the vote of any sensible man. But, if one of the girls happen to be par- ing a basket of apples for sauce, for the next morning's meal, he will call for a knife, and assist her; and, instead of discussing the merits of the last new novel, he will ask her how many yards of cloth she can weave in a day, how much butter and cheese they make during the summer, with other such topics of con. versation. When the hour for' milking arrives, he will accom- pany them to the cow lot; and when the calves have obtained their quantum of milk, he will seize the calf by the ears, and drag it into its own pasture.. A fine tableau, to see one of these starched gentlemen dragging a calf by the ears, whilst the farm- er's daughters, who understand the philosophy of penning a calf without any effort, stand by, much amused at his violent exertion. Nor are they so unqualified to converse upon intellectual sub- . jects, as the conversation he addresses to them presupposes. You must not always judge by appearances, in these backwoods places. You may see a girl dressed in her home-spun dress, the product of her own industry, yet her mind is stored with useful knowledge;- she is acquainted with the current literature of the day, which she gathers from newspapers, besides being familiar i with all the incidents of ancient and modern history, that are worth noting. However, there is a good reason why it should t be so; for there, reading is a recreation, and the mind becomes interested in the acquisition of knowledge. Whereas, here, in the city, there are so many things to divert the mind from its at-  tainment, that, as a natural consequence, the girls grow up light. minded, and deriving pleasure from trifling pursuits. "One evening, it is the theatre, the next, a concert, or a party, a ball, or something else, keeping the mind in a constant whirl of excitement, leaving not a moment to anything, but dress and amusement."  "Bravo," exclaimed Clementina, "you have made quite a speech, but ere its close you deviated considerably from the sub. ject on which you commenced."  "That is true, but when I speak of the West, it always calls    "FE IN WASG iNGTON.         16 up pictures of simple quiet enjoyment, that makes me forgetful that others do not take the same interest in them that I do." The  usual  mocking spirit seemed to possess Clementina, for she replied. "Your representation of the mental cultivation of your country lasses, does not correspond with what you were, when you came to the city. But to do you justice, I must admit you have im- proved marvelously for the length of time you have been here." The quick blood mounted to Jenny's cheek, and she was about to reply in a hasty manner, but repressed the angry words that rose to her lips, and answered: "I possessed less opportunity for improvement than the daughters of the better class of farmers. We were: poor, and father never took anything but a political paper. Most farmers throughout the West, take a literary paper." Just at this moment the bell rang, and as Jenny did not feel any interest in -the visitors who usually called upon her brilliant cousin, she quietly slipped out of the room. The visitor, on this morning, happened to be Judge Call, the new  memnber, who had been     so much pleased with Clementina the  previous evening. And the morning's call increased the admiration with which he already regarded her. She exerted herself to please, and she seldom failed.to do so when she wished. Oh, that some guardian spirit would whisper into his ear: --Beware ! - Did you but know the life-enduring desolation her wiles have caused in one heart, you would tremble for your own future happiness. Judge Call is a noble-souled, honorable-minded man. After his election, ere his departure from his Western home to attend to his new duties in the federal city, he had obtained the promise of a    gentle girl, whom he had long  wooed, to become his bride immediately after his return. They had long loved each other with the most devoted attachment, but the haughty mother, who was a    widow, would not suffer her daughter to receive his  ad- dresses; because she thought her great beauty would enable her to make, what she termed, a     better match. The fair Helen was exceedingly beautiful, and her mother would frequently re. mark, when her companions rallied her on the devotion of the    t6182      AIfEE G4ABSON; R               Judge, that her daughter must marry some one whose position   would enable him to introduce her to Washington society ; for, she had no idea- that her beauty should not be known beyond the precincts of a country town. These words being repeated to the eI Judge, he resolved he would obtain a seat in Congress, if that was to be the terms on which he would obtain the hand of her whom he loved. He became an active politician, was elected to the state legislature, where the course he pursued was so popular, that he succeeded in getting into Congress much sooner than he r anticipated. He now felt, that he had a right to claim the hand i of Helen. Now that fortune commenced -smiling on his efforts, i she seemed inclined to shower favors on him; for, a rich old .I uncle, who would not render him the slightest assistance whilst ' he was struggling to obtain an education and his profession, now in determined to make him his heir, and actually made a will in his  fhvor, just in time to accomplish this design. For he died of apoplexy a few days after it was signed and sealed. He was   now deemed one of the best matches in the state, and Mrs. Jones was proud to have it known, that he was the acknowledged suitor of her daughter. This was the state of things when he left for Washington. He was first attracted to Clementina by her resemblance to  his Helen. This resemblance was only in personal appearance, for his affianced was all that was artless and pure minded, whilst Clementina was the most consummate actor. It seemed the very contrast of character fascinated him, for ere the close of the ses- sion, she had drawn from him an avowal of love; notwithstand- ing, the image of Helen still lay nestling in the depths of his heart. As the time approached for his return home, he grew restless and miserable. Waking and sleeping, two images seemed to haunt him, that of Clementina mocking and trium- phant, that of Helen touchingly -sad. When he arrived at home, he called immediately at Mrs. Jones', hoping the smile of Helen would restore to him those happy, feelings which he had always' experienced in her presence. To his surprise, he learned she was absent on a visit to some distant friends. She was sent for imn mediately ; but several days elapsed before she arrived, and dur.-   SUFE IN VASt3N 1 OT  .       8     l ing that period, his friends observed that he acted Strangely, but supposed it was caused by disappointment at not finding Helen at home.  When he called, on her after her return, he was strangely agitated; there was a wildness in his manner bordering on insanity, She had felt for some time, from the tone of his letters, that a change had come over him, and when she met him she was convinced her surmises were true. It at once occurred to her that in his associations at Washington he had met some lady whose charms and accomplishments had caused him to wish to be fiee from his engagement to her, and, with that straight forward simplicity which always characterized her, she said to him  "For some time past, I have been unhappy, it seemed a spirit voice whispered to my heart that your love, which was the light of my life, had been withdrawn from me. If it be true, you are released from your engagement." "I do not wish to be released from  my engagement; I am : were to fulfil it. Let our marriage be consummated imme-. diately." Helen gazed into his face with a penetrating earnestness, as if he would read every emotion of his heart, whilst she said : "Your answer does not content me. You say, 'Let our mar. . riage take place;' but if there is a voice whose tones make sweeter  music to your ear, and an eye whose glance seems brighter, then would I not wed you for worlds, A voice whispers me such is the case. I entreat you to speak frankly to me. Show me your heart as was your wont to do in happy days gone by. I feel  that there is something in it that I do not know." "Oh, Helen, I  am wretched, miserably wretched! I have not, ceased to love you; but I labor under some strange hallucination;, Washington I   met a lady, the counterpart of yourself in ap  pearance, yet all unlike you. She is gifted and accomplished , beyond any person I   have ever met. She exercised over my  senses a  kind of bewildering spell, that I cannot comprehend."  "  'Tis true-,I knew 'twas true!" exclaimed Helen, "and no  phantasy, produced by lowness of spirits, on account of your . essence. Go, wed this beautiful and accomplished being, and     e   164        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, be happy.  I will learn to forget the bright dreams I had cherished." "No, Helen, that cannot be. At the bare thought of aban- doning you and uniting my destiny to hers, I feel as if fiends were searing my brain with red hot iron. No, no; let us be married immediately, and then I shall regain that quiet happi- ness which your presence ever casts around me." "Not so; the dream is past--I can never be your bride," was the low reply, in a voice so full of woe, you would deem it the wail of a breaking heart. But Helen's heart did not break, for she was -a strong-minded woman; yet, the sudden blighting of those long cherished hopes, caused her a fit of sickness that brought her near to the grave, and from which she recovered to learn that Judge C. was the inmate of a mad-house. The rose never bloomed again on her cheek, nor did she ever get married; but she lived to be a blessing to the poor and suffering. Wherever you heard of sickness, there you would see Helen Jones, holding the cooling draught to the parched lips, or bathing the fevered brow of the sufferer. Seldom was she heard warbling glad strains of music to gratifythe joyous and gay, but often was her ex- quisite voice heard chanting the sweet and comforting hymn be- side the sick and sorrowing. She was an angel of mercy on earth! This course chafed the proud spirit of her mother, and ! there were not persons wanting to say it was a judgment on her, j for her opposition to Helen's marriage with Judge C. ere he  attained wealth and station. When her mother would reproach her for wasting her youth thus, she would reply gently-- "Mother, the youth of my heart has passed away, and the only pleasure I enjoy is derived from imparting solace to my fellow beings-: do permit me to indulge in this pleasure." Thus adjured, she would leave her to pursue her own wishes. Judge C. died in the lunatic asylum to which his friends con- signed him. He perished in the opening of a brilliant career, a victim to the wiles of an accomplished and heartless coquette. It is much to be regretted that such sirens are sometimes still to be met with in the gay society of Washington. And they   -    .LIFE IN WASRITNGTO'N.  1[65 cast their witching spells around any who may come within their circle, perfectly indifferent whether the gentlemen are married or unmarried so they elicit their admiration and secure their atten- amusement.    hemto balls, assemblies, and'other places of   "       .ANNISE GRAYSON: OB-. CHAPTER XIX. THE, LEVEE. WHEN Jenny retired to her own room, she thought of her cousin's words with something like bitterness in her heart. She thought of Clementina's easy graceful manners, her extraordinary  mental attainments, which fascinated all who came within her influence; and a feeling almost akin to envy, for the first time, arose in her bosom. Communing with herself, she said: "Why should I feel thus? Would I exchange with her, tak- ing her heartlessness and selfishness, with her accomplishments and intellectual superiority . No, no, I do not covet the admi- ration of the crowd; I would rather have the love of one honest, noble heart, and be worthy of that love, than the mere admira- tion of all the distinguished men of Washington. There is a heartlessness about it, that is like a sealed book to an untrained country girl. And H am glad it is so. This exchanging of com- j plimentary phrases without feeling what you say, is not in ac- cordance with nature. Oh, it is a blessed thing to live in the country, and have the heart expanded and made capable of lov- ing with truth and earnestness all that is worthy of our love, by looking on the beautiful face of nature as it came from the hand of its Creator! But in the city, from infancy, children are taught, that the great end and aim of life is to attract admiration; con- sequently, they become selfish." This train of thought was interrupted by the entrance of her aunt, who sat and conversed with her some time; for her unself- ish and self sacrificing disposition was making its impression on   "FE IN WAStIGTON  .       t67 -Mrs. Parkinson. She found it very pleasant to hear Jenny say in her sweet affectionate way, when she came in from calling or shopping , and felt warm or fatigued: "Aunt, sit in this easy chair, and let me take your things and fan you."'  Or, Whenshe read anything that interested her, she would take the book or paper into her aunt's room, saying "Dear aunt, here is some- thing so interesting, do let me read it to you." When Mrs. Parkinson entered the room, she observed Jenny looked  more thoughtful than usual, and placing her hand on her head, she said: "Child, what makes you look so grave ?" "I was just thinking of the difference between Clementina and myself. I don't wonder that she thinks I am rough and un- couth." "Never mind, you know I promised you to send you to the Academy at Georgetown, and you will have an opportunity of becoming polished as she. But I do not know that it is best for girls to get too much knowledge; itmakes them   regardless of every one, unless it is some learned person like themselves. Now, here you will fan me and read to me, or go and take a drive with me whenever I propose it, whether you feel like riding or not. But if you were learned like Clementina, you would be like her, unwilling to waste your time in driving about to gratify an old woman's whim." " Never fear, aunt;.I think if I were indebted to your kindness for an education, I  should feel under the greater obligation to d e- vote my attention to you, to repay you for your generosity." "You think so now, but you will change." "Try me."- "Well, !'1 l do so. You may go to school as soon as you please.", "Then, let it be next Monday." "If you wish it, we will go to-morrow and see the sisters, and make the arrangements.' "That is a dear good aunt," said she, kissing her affetion- As the rays of th e sun falling on the ice will, in time, melt it,   168        ANNIEGBATSON   OB, "^the pride and. selfishness so Jenny's constant kindness was melting   the pride and selfishness from about Mrs. Parkinson's heart; and sekidly returned the caress, and left Jenny alone. When her aunthad left her, she took out her writing materials, and Wrote-a letter home and, as eof her notions   re Somewhat original, we will give the letter for the amusement of our readers : MY DEAR B OTHaERS,  When I wrote you last, i said, in my next, I would write to yoI wrout the yongressu an so I ill; but I must tell you, first, you about the Congress, andso I w    p   o   pio, that I am going to school, and Iwill learnto play on the piano, and all thes fine things that are considere necessary to make a lady. I think I hearyouexclaim  "Oh, fudge! whatwill our Jenny do with such fine lady notions and learning, hen she gets e she will be taking airs on herself, and ack hemer- I suppose she wl        It ohbors"But, if you barn?her nose at us. and our plaom Dei n...h ' turn up 1her n os e at. . -'aken   , Ihave seen enoughof think so, you are atogether . .    Wa shington, to find this turning up of noses- sin, .    1. A. or the dini out that it doesnot add to the beauty of the'ladY , of thgetea Ug             aknpswhhs W^hyhSere you will See some  rubbed his back against colleg wls, and whose person is cloth- ed in fine broad cloth, perhaps at the expense of the merchant, with his dainty hand encased in white kid gloves, making a dis- 'With his dacinty hand encae m te   pens to meet an play of himself on the Avenue, and ifhe ppens to  memet an honest industrious merchanc, or tradesman, Who isa useful mem- her of society, and possessing every attribut e t hat constitutes a tr -olf soceturn up his nose, and perhaps levehis qigentleman) yet, I  f Mexmine what kind of A being he quizzing glas a  'tly disgusted with such airs, that is, I have become so perfectly- , there is no danger that I will ever take any upon myself. But Isuppose you think I will finish myleter without saying anything abou :Cogress. I        entam g o to the that, now. The first time I went to the Capitol, I went t ghe Senate, and was very mu  interestet looking t   the g rave Senators, as*they sat in their seats, anc in listening tO their ! . speehes.- Mynextavisit wto the House of Representatives. speeee  Ey jaext -v i 8   LiFE IN WASHTNGTO.         1 When I took my seat in the gallery and looked down on the floor, it put mein mind of a school of big boys when the master was absent, for they seemed to be engaged in anything but making laws for the government of a great nation, judging from their appearance. One man, I supposed was making a speech, for he stood in one place and gesticulated violently. The others were some of them, walking about, talking to each other, whilst some were writing, and a small- number were reading the news- papers, I could not hear a word the individual standing on- the floor said, save, when: he bawled at the top of his voice, "Mr.. Speaker," and I presume no one else did, for no one seemed to try to hear but myself. The ladies in the gallery were chatting to the gentlemen by whom they were accompanied, or smiling and bowing. to members on the floor.  These speeches made in the House of Representatives,-are seldom listened to by the members themselves, or'visitors; but they are printed and sent through the country for the enlightenment of the constituents of the honorable gentlemen, to let them know what giant statesmen they are., My private' opinion is, that it would be a great saving of time, money, and lungs, if they would just have the speeches printed, and sent round through the country, without speaking them in Congress. And then, it would be the means of prevent- ing these quarrels and fights, which sometimes take place in the Hall of Representatives; which is setting a very bad example to the people, to say nothing of the pulled hair, and slapped jaws of the honorable gentlemen themselves. However, Ill notsay any more about Congress in this letter, but say something about the levees at. the President's. - I believe,: I told you in a former letter, that the house of the President was thrown open once every week, and every one that wished, had liberty! to go there to see the President and his family.  A great many,persons go there, but not so many to see the President as to show themselves. .After speaking to the President, visitors generally go into the east room and promenade round it. Those who do not wish to pro- menade, can take a seat on the chairs and sofas, that -are ranged along the sides of the room, and watch the gay cr  wd as ey pass before them. I usually take a seat and amuse myself by   170        ANNIE GRAY80N; oR, noting the different styles of dress, and different expressions of countenance-of the crowd as they move round before me. For the life of me, whenever I look at them marching round the room, time after time, I cannot help thinking of Tom Pike's old brown :horse, moving round in the same path all day, to propel the machinery to grind tan-bark for the use of his tan-yard. Speaking of tan-bark, puts me in mind of leather, and that re- minds me of an incident that is said -to have occurred at a levee some years since. A very worthy gentleman, a resident of a neighboring eity, whose occupation was that of shoemaker, by his industry, honest integrity, and excellent moral character, so won the confidence and respect of his fellow citizens, that they elected him mayor of the city. One evening whilst he was mayor, he and his family attended a levee. The son was a fine manly youth, full of energy and enterprise. The daughter a beautiful interesting girl that had just burst into womanhood. They'had been promenading, and were standing at one side of the r6om, observing the brilliant throng, when- a lady who made great pretension to gentility, gave her head a toss, and cast a supercilious glance at them, saying in a tone sufficiently loud to reach their ears, which she intended it should do. "Don't you smell shoemaker's wax 1" The brow of the young girl crimsoned, for she felt it was meant as an insult; but the lip of the brother curled with con- tempt, and his eye flashed fire, whilst he said: -"Do not mind her, sis; our father earns a competence by the honest labor of his hands, and has the respect of all who know him; whilst hers is enabled to deck her in satins and jewels, by pursuing an avocation in which no high'-minded honorable man will engage. But never mind, if I live, I will attain a position that will place me on an equality with the proudest." And he has made his words good. He is now one of the wealthiest bankers in the city. Foreign ministers, members of the Cabinet, with the scientific and intellectual, sit at his board. Re is the patron of the fine arts, and paintings of the most cele- brated masters decorate his walls; but the same good sense which marked the course of his father is a characteristic of his   "FE IN WASHNGTON.         171 eareer. His urbanity of manner wins the respect of all who have intercourse with him, and his liberality in relieving the poor is proverbial. The most aristocratic ladies in the city are happy to mingle in the dance beneath the light of his chandeliers, and invitations to his parties are sought with avidity. The lady who made the remark that wounded the feelings of his sister and roused his spirit, the first-time she met him at the President's, still mingles in, and strives to be a leader in fashionable society. He meets her frequently at the houses of mutual friends. She is very assiduous in courting the attention of the rich banker; he is exceedingly polite to her, but has never invited her to his house. She asks one of her friends, who is very intimate with the banker, to procure her an invitation to a large party which is to be given by him during the month. The request is made by the friend, and the invitation sent, but it is enclosed in a note of the following import: "' FAIR. LADY, "A mutual friend intimated to me, that you would condescend to honor my mansion with your presence, if you should receive an invitation to my next party. Enclosed you will find the i- vitation. You would have been an invited guest at my house, long ere this, but knowing the delicacy of your olfactory nerves, I feared they might be offended with the 'smell of shoemaker's wax.                 ; "Yours, with profound respect, When the lady read the note, she crushed it in her hand, ex- claiming :               , "I wish my tongue had been blistered ere I made that unlucky speech; but I've got the invitation, and I'll go. Nobody will know any thing of the ungracious note accompanying it, and it will make some of my dear friends half die with envy, to know that I was at this great party, which is looked upon as the party of the season." So you see some ladies are not very particular - how an invi. tation is procured, so they get it.   172       ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, "I must stop writing, for I have made my letter too long already; but I know you will not tire in reading a letter from your affectionate sister JENNY." When Jenny had finished her letter, she went about preparing her things for school, with her heart full of happy thoughts of home, and bright anticipations of the future. She noted not the lapse of time, until she heard the dinner bell ring. She then hastily brushed her hair and arranged her dress, for her aunt,was very particular about her appearance at the dinner table, and was hurrying through the hall to the dining-room, when she heard the following-words in tones piercingly sorrowful: "Oh, for mercy's sake, do not drive me away without per- mitting me to see some of the family!" "Clear out, Missus never encourages beggars," was the reply of the servant, and she was about to close -the door, but Jenny stopped, saying: "What is it, Ann?" "Why, here is a poor white child, wants to be troubling Missus." Jenny stepped to the door and saw standing on the steps a little girl about twelve years old, thinly clad, and almost per- ished with cold. She did not stop to ask her any questions, but took her by the hand and led into the parlor, where a cheerful fire blazed in the grate, telling her to sit down and warm herself, and then tell her what she wanted. Jenny did not think what her aunt or proud cousin would say, to see a miserably clad child in this elegant parlor; nor did she think of her dinner; she only thought of the little sad, pale face, that looked so beseechingly into her eyes. When she had warmed her almost frozen hands, she asked her what she wanted. The child raised her eyes to Jenny's face, saying: "Indeed, indeed lady, t never begged before. When father was alive, we had a nice house and-' everything we wanted, but when he died, we had to leave it, for mother and sister Lizzie could not earn enough to pay for it, so we had to go to a poor /    "FE IN WASHNGTON.         173 little house that we get for four dollars a month. Whilst mother kept well, we got along well enough, and always had the money to pay the rent at the end of the month. But mother has been sick this winter, not able to sew, and sister Lizzie works every night till midnight. When our rent was due yesterday, we had no money to pay it. Our landlord said we might stay till to. morrow, and if we had not the money then, he would turn us out of doors. Mother begged him to let us remain a few days, but he said his tenants seemed to think because he owned houses, they must be allowed to live in them rent free, and if he would listen to their complaints, he would soon not have a house to cover his own head. If such should ever be the case, I trust he will find a landlord with more generosity than is found in his bosom. This morning, Lizzie went to her employer and begged him to advance her enough money to pay our rent, but he re- fused, telling her if she troubled him to advance money, he would not give her any more work. When she came home and told mother, she said, ' Let them put us into the street, for the chill blasts of winter are not so cold as the heart of man to his fellow being.' But she looked so sorrowful, and Lizzie cried as if her heart would break, so I slipped out and thought I would try if I could not beg some money.  This is the first house I have stopped at. Oh, do give me something; if the rich only knew how much the poor suffer, I am sure they would not drive them from their doors with unkind words." "What is the amount of rent due?" asked Jenny. "Four dollars." "Only four dollars! and for that amount a wealthy man would turn a sick woman and her orphan children into the street, to perish with cold! Surely, no one bearing the image of man can be so heartless." "Mother says, money is his God." "I fear it will not serve him in the hour of his greatest need; he will perhaps, then, learn what it is to beg for money, and be refused. Here are two dollars, all I have, but you are welcome to it." The children took the money, saying: tX   17:      3SECKB GEAY;SON; DR, "Oh, you are an angel of kindness, to not only give me mo. hey, but to speak so kindly to me. May you never know what it is to want." "Tell me where you live, and I will come tosee you; I may be able to assist you more." The child gave the required direction, that she might find her home, and then lef, thanking Jenny with tears in her eyes, for her generosity. Jenny then went to her dinner, but could eat nothing, for thinking of the poor -child, and its sick mother. When they had finished their meal, and gone into the parlor, Jenny told her aunt of the poor chilj to whom she had given her two dollars, and asked her aunt to add two more to it, and let her go and take it to them, that they might be able to pay their rent, when the-landlord called again. Mrs. Parkinson, though not much inclined to exercise the vir- tue of charity, was prevailed on by Jenny to give her some mo- ney for the relief of this suffering family. In the joy of her heart, she carried it immediately to them.- When she arrived at their humble and scantily furnished abode, and saw -the sick wo- man lying on a poor bed, whilst the daughter was seated by a few coals, that barely sufficed to keep her fingers from becoming stiff with cold, sewing busily, she mentally exclaimed: ' Is it possible, there exists a man .so devoid of every feeling of humanity, as to use harsh and threatening words to these suf- fering women, for the paltry sum of four dollars! If that is the effect of riches on the heart, may I continue as I am." At the sound of her footfall, the little 'girl to whom she had givea 'the money, and who was also engaged in sewing, raised- herahead, and a smile passed over her pale face, as she said : "( Oh, Lizzie, this is the kind lady wh0gave me money to-day." Lizzie, a pale, delicate looking girl, rose fromn her work, and offered her a seat, saying: "Fair lady, you know not- from what despair your generous gift has raised us. Although it is not the whole amount due to our landlord, I think when we pay him that sum, he will permit us to remain two Weeks longer; and, by that time, if my mother   "FE IN WA SHN GTON.     -    7 , -grows no worse," and her voice sank to a whisper, and a tear moistened her cheek, "I trust, I shall be able to pay him the full amount." "I have brought you the amount, and someting more, to pro- cure some comforts for your sick mother." "May Heaven's choicest blessing rest on your head. I am sure my mother will soon be well, when her mind is relieved from the dread of being thrown in the street, and she has some- thing to nourish her; for the disease has left her:-she is only too weak to sit up." Jenny approached the bed, and found it was true. She was suffering more from debility than disease, and what she needed to restore her, was a mind at ease, and wholesome food. She remained some time, and oonversed in a cheerful manner, pro- mising to call frequently. When she left, she had implanted a feeling of hopefulness in the hearts of that oppressed family, to which they had been strangers for many a day. And Jenny ex- perienced a feeling of truer happiness than the hard hearted landlord could even conceive of. This is no fancy sketch ;such incidents are of frequent recurrence' in Washington, and, no doubt, in other large cities, where the desire to possess immense wealth is so great, that it chokes up every generous feelinfg of the heart.   176        ANNIE GRAYSON; O1, CHAPTER XX. THE REJECTED PROPOSAL. THE winter, with its gayeties, had passed away; and the gentle breezes of spring, laden with the perfume of flowers, steal through the window, and fan the cheek of Annie Grayson, as she sits in her own chamber, in a musing mood. She had been so absorbed in thought, that she had not noted the lapse of time, and was not aware the shades of twilight were gathering round her, till a servant rapped at -the door, bringing a message from her-father, saying, he wished to see her a few moments in the She immediately went to him. When she entered the library, he said: ' Come, darling, take a seat by me, and listen to what I have She drew a footstool to his feet; and, seating herself on it, looked, affectionately into his face, saying: "Father, I am all attention; what is it you have to say ," He placed his hand on her curls, as he had often done in child- hood, and continued: "Would you like to be married " "What a singular question, father. Are you tired of your daughter .1" "No; but I have had a proposal for your hand to-day, from one who is worthy of you." "Who is it, father?" "The Marquis of B--" "I am sorry for it. I esteem the Marquis, but-   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        1" "But what, my child?" "I do not love him." "It is not expected you should give your love unasked : it would be unmaidenly. He asks the privilege of wooing and winning you." "' Father, say to him I appreciate the honor he does me, but I am so happy with my parents, I would remai with them." "But, my daughter, you will not always remain with us; and the Marquis is not only possessed of those intellectual and moral qualities that would make him a worthy companion, but his rank would place a coronet on your brow, and give you a place among the highest nobility of France." "Father," said Annie, in a voice almost reproachful, "I am surprised to hear you, an American by birth, and a Senator by ,your own merit, which honor was bestowed on you by your generous countrymen, on account of that merit, mention title and rank, as recommendations that should have any weight with your daughter, in her choice of a husband. I could have expect- ed such a thing from my mother, but not from you. It is this weakness that makes foreigners ridicule us. They say, and with too much truth, that whilst we are always boasting of our re- publican institutions and our democracy, there is no people in the world -who run after titled foreigners with so much eager ness." "There is too much truth in what you say, and I stand re- proved of my folly in mentioning rank and title as an induce- ment to prevail on you to regard favorably the suit of the Mar- quis. But he possesses qualities that render him worthy of you, independent of these, and he loves you devotedly." "I regret that it is so, for if ever I wed, it will be one of my own countrymen." "Well, my daughter, I only wish to see you happy; I know your affections will not be bestowed on one unworthy of -you, and .whomsoever you may choose will be approved by me." "Thank you, my father, for your confidence in my judgment: you shall find it is not misplaced. You will speak to the Mar- quis, and tell him I decline the honor he would do me.," $8*   17-       ANNIE -GRAYSON; COR, When Annie left the library, she went to the parlor, where she found her cousin Fred awaiting her. "Well, cousin," said he, " have you forgotten your promise to go round with me, and spend the evening with Mrs. Stanmore tnd Eulalie r' "Oh no, I have not forgotten it, for it is such a relief to spend a quiet evening in rational conversation, after the constant excite- ment of mingling with the gay and pleasure-seeking crowd with which I am brought constantly in contact! And the pleasure they seek, what is it?--the gratifying of their own selfish tastes- regardless of the feelings of a fellow-being." "Well, coz, do not stop to philosophize, but let us go to sew our friends." In a moment, Annie was ready to accompany her cousin, and they were soon seated in the parlor of Mrs. Stanmore. When Annie had thrown off her shawl, she exclaimed: I feel when :I get here as if there was an influence about me which tends to restore me to my better self. For, although I do not really enjoy the society to be met in the gay world, yet a onstarnt association with those whose only thought is fashion and dress, will have its effect upon any heart." "They say," remarked Eulalie, " there is a certain titled gentle- man in that gay throng, who has affected your heart very serious- ly. Is it true ." "There is about as much truth in it, as is usually found in the rumors of They sc'y."   "Then if it be not true, we may hope to prevail on you to go with us to your cousin's beautiful plantation in Louisiana. Oh, how happy I am at the thought of visiting again the bright sunny South!" "Yes, cousin, you must accompany us; we have planned a de. lightful tour. We will leave about the first of June, go up the Hudson, from thence the Canada, visiting the beautiful scenery of the St. Lawrence, and that wonder of nature-the falls of Niagara. When we have sufficiently admired the beautiful and sublime scenery of this vicinity, we will cross the lakes and visit Quincy, Illinois, pwhere, as Mrs. Stanmore aompanies us   "FE IN WASHNGTON         79 we must spend some days. And, judging from Edwifi's descrip- tion-of the warmed-hearted hospitality of the citizens of the State of boundless prairies and beautiful rivers, we shall not be -able to leave there for, at least a month, thus making it Autumn--be- fore we shall reach our own home. Is not that a route sufficiently attractive to induce you to accompany us'" "Nothing would give me more pleasure than to form one of your party, but as this is :'the long session, and Congress may not adjourn ti 'August, I fear my parents will not be willing to permit me to leave them. "If you will go, I will procure the consent of your parents," said her cousin. "You must not refuse us," said Mrs. Stanmore. "Edwin writes me, he has purchased a beautiful home, and he wishes me to come and take charge of his housekeeping. It will be so pleasant to have you, the dearest friend of ElJa,-visit me in my new home. Had Ella lived-But I will not murmur." At the name 6f Ella, an expression of pain passed over Fred- erick Leroux's face, and .he became silent and thoughtful. -He had striven hard to bring himself to think of her loss with calm- ness; her memory was ever in his thoughts like a haunting spirit, yet he could not hear her name mentioned without betray- ing emotion. Eulalie, who regarded him with the solicitude of a sister, noted his abstraction, and her thoughts turned 'to her own withered hopes, causing her also to forget the present, so busy was she with memories of the past, thus, leaving Mrs. Stanmore and Annie to continue the conversation. And so in- terested was Mrs. Stanmore in speaking of her noble boy, as she called Edwin, and Annie in listening to her praises, that the evening passed rapidly away. Annie had concluded ere she left, if her parents did not object, that she would accompany -her friends on their anticipated tour. The consent of her parents is obtained, and it is but a day or two previous to the one fixed for their departure, when Annie, with a heart in which there was a mingling of sadness and joy, went to make her farewell visits. And where- do you suppose those visits were made? Not to the houses of the wealthy, oh   180        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, no, but to the humble abodes of those whose sufferings she had relieved during the cold winter months. Whilst she listened to their expressions of thankfulness for- her kindness, and regret that she was about to leave the city, her heart was filled with emo- tion, and she said within herself, to a generous heart there is much to live for, even if our brightest dreams of life should not be realized. - When she had bid adieu to all her other friends, she called on Emma Carlton, and told her of the pleasures she anticipated during the summer, expressing a wish that it were possible for her to accompany them. "For once," replied Emma, "I almost feel tempted to mur- mur at my lot. Oh, it would be so pleasant to get away from the dust and din of the city. To ramble beneath wide spreading oaks, and listen to the music of the .forest warbler in its native groves, whilst the breath of the wild flower makes the atmosphere around redolent with sweets. Yet, I will not murmur, for that would be sinful. Rather should I be thankful that we are all in health, and able to earn a comfortable independence. However I will be with you often in imagination. By-the-by, does a cer. tain French Marquis whom I have heard frequently discussed by my fair customers, accompany you." "Certainly not; why do you ask ." "The gossip indulged in by ladies, whilst awaiting the fit of a dress, implied that ere another winter passed, you would be the bride of the titled Frenchman. And, I supposed it probable, he would form one of your party." "He will not belong to our party, nor will I ever be his bride."                  i "I am glad of it." "Why so!" "If you must know, I have always fancied you and Edwin Stanmore were just suited to each other, and I should like to see that fancy realized. If he has not nobility of title, hehas nobility of soul, which is far better." Whilst Emma was speaking, a bright glow suffused Annie's cheek; but when she had ceased; she replied: "I did not know you were such a dreamer; but I am sorry to   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        181 tell you, your fancy with regard to Edwin and myself can never be realized." "Why not? you are certainly not one of those who regard Edwin as beneath you, because he has been obliged- to earn a place among men by his own unwearied industry and energy. And if he has not had the time to cultivate the elegant accom- plishments that please the fancy of the vain belles nature has bestowed on him an innate politeness, and native grace, that renders him superior, even in that respect, to the polished fop- ling, who spends his time in loitering in drawing rooms, and making silly speeches to giggling girls, whose minds are vacant as his own." "No, Emma, I do not regard Edwin the less, because he has been the artificer of his own fortune. Notwithstanding I have been reared in this city, where there is a class .of persons who regard those as inferior who are the' useful members of society, and contribute to the wealth of our country by their labor, I have none of that littleness about me. But, has gossip not in- formed you that the talented young editor is to wed an accom- plished heiress in St. Louis ." "It has not; but I should not have believed it, had I heard it." "And why not believe it?"e "Because, Annie, I noted Edwin closely when he last was in Washington, and he loves you with all the devotedness that a noble heart is capable of feeling." "No, Emma, Edwin regards me as a sister, and has ever treated me as such." "He has ever treated you as such, 'tis true; but the feeling with which he regards you is warmer, deeper than ever glowed in bosom of brother for sister. But, although he feels himself equal to any, he knows the world would say you had wed be. neath your station were you to become his bride. Therefore, he will never breathe his love, till he attains a position that the world will deem him a fitting match for the peerless Annie Gray- son. He has a strong will, and well disciplined mind; he can control the expression of his feelings: but the glance of the eye and the modulation of the voice when he addresses you, betrays   182        ANNIE GRAYY8 ON; OR, him to one who observed him as closely as I did when I last saw him." "Well, well, I shall see him during the summer; so I shall watch fr those symptoms you describe, and if I can detect any of them, and he seems too diffident to woo me, I shall offer my- self to him."                   -  "You may jest about it as you please, but you are the idol of Edwin's heart, and a nobler heart never beat than his." "None know it better than I, and I do full justice to his noble $ualities; but we will not speak of him any longer. I came to bid you good-bye, this evening. To-morrow I shall be occupied,. and we leave at six o'clock next morning; so I shall not see you again ere I leave." "I am almost selfish enough to regret your absence, although I know you will enjoy your tour so much. Of those who were my friends when fortune smiled on me more propitiously, none, save yourself, seem to recognize me as the same being I then was. Whilst Ella lived, she was unchanged; and when you were absent from-the city, I still had a friend to call and greet me kindly, and encourage me when I sometimes felt life's tasks were heavy on my young shoulders. But now when you leave, I shall be all alone as it regards a friend of my own age. I am not superstitious, nor disposed to have faith in presentiments; but at the thought of your leaving, there is a weight at my heart and a feeling that I shall need your friendship ere you return to the city-" "If you need a friend in my absence, my father will be ever ready to serve you, for he has a kind heart. I must see your mother and Leila before I go. How does Leila advance in her studies -' "Rapidly; she is the day-star of my existence. Let me be ever so weary and despondent, when I hear her happy childish laugh, it steals over my spirit like refreshing music. Oh! I shall never murmur whilst I have that angel child, in her inno- cence and beauty, to shed light on my pathway." At this moment, Mrs. Carlton and Leila came into the room, and Annie bade adieu to her friends and returned home, Often, anreu'edhm   "E IN WASHNT3oN.        18 during the evening, she was repeating to herself, ' So, Emma thinks he loves me." The thought that this might be true caused her to look forward to her journey with a much happier heart than she otherwise would have done. For, notwithstanding all the blessings fortune had showered on her, she felt her happiness would be incomplete without Edwin's love. ,                 -  Jai   184       MANIE GRAYSON; OB, CHAPTER XXI. A VISIT TO THE SPRINGS. Tax rays of the morning sun had not fallen on the sleeping city, gilding spire and dome with its glad beams, when Annie arose, and habited herself in her traveling costume, that she might be in readiness for her journey. After having performed her morning devotions, she threw open her chamber window, and looked upon the quiet scene. As her eye rested upon it, she in- voluntary exclaimed: "How quiet, how still! It seems the spirit of rest enwraps the entire city. The politician rests from the excitements and busy schemes of ambition, with which his brain is busied during the day. The gay belle and woman of fashion no longer think of practicing the most graceful attitudes, that they may acquire an easy grace, that will enable them to win the admiration of all beholders. The weary toil-worn laborer also rests, and it may be, to him is vouchsafed the sweetest and most refreshing rest. No exciting and- harassing themes trouble his imagination, play- ing him wild fantastic tricks; even in slumber. He sleeps, and, perchance, he dreams of that better land, where, the inspired writer says: 'The weary rest from their labors,' of that land where there are no rich, no poor; and he rises strengthened and refreshed to engage in the tasks of the new day." Just at this moment, a wild bird, from the branches of a tree beside her window, hymned forth its morning carol of gratitude and praise; she raised her eyes reverently to Heaven, and ejacul, ated .: -   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        185 "Oh, God i how beautiful, how perfect are all thy works; and earth would be a paradise but for the stormy, unbridled passions that rage in the breast of man;- and it seems, in cities, those passions acquire a vehemence undreamed of by those who dwell among the quiet and purifying influences of the country," Ere the bird had finished its matin song, the sunbeams fell upon the topmost branches of the tree in which it had taken shelter, and signs of active life were astir in the city. Annie turned from the window and descended to the parlor, where she found her father already awaiting her. As she entered, he rose from his seat, and drawing her to his bosom imprinted a kiss upon wher brow, saying: "My own darling daughter, you are about to leave us for a long time, and did I not prefer your happiness to my own, I would not permit you to go. My heart will be lonely in your absence." "Oh, no, father, your public duties will keep you so much occupied, you will have no time for loneliness." "True, my daughter, I shall be much occupied with my public duties, but the strife, heartlessness, and intrigue, which I fre- quently have to encounter in public life, make me need the more, the society of my daughter, that I may in her,- look upon the fairer side of human nature, and not become disgusted with my species." The usually glad countenance of Aunt Susie, the cook, -now appeared at the door,'but it wore a look of sadness, and with a voice tremulous with suppressed feeling, she said: "Miss Annie, come honey, and take a nice cup of hot coffee afore you goes. I's bin to Master Fred's room an he'll be down in a minit." "- And my mother?" "I's been to her room, but she says, if she's 'sturbed so airly, she'll have the headache all- days, so you kin jist come to her room and tell her good-bye afore you goes." Annie felt a pang shoot through her heart, at the thought, that her mother felt so indifferent about her departure. And old   186       mANNIE GRAYsON; ORe Susie shook her head, as much as to say: Missus aint worthy such a child.  Mr. Grayson took Annie's hand and led her to the table, but her heart was so fuB, she could scarcely swallow a mouthful. Aunt Susie bustled about, poured the coffee, and begged her to take some ham, saying: "Laws honey, you must eat, 'twill be a long time afore you'll drink a oup of coffee I makes. Oh dear, oh dear, it will seem like all the light has gone, out of de house when you is gone."  Annie, to gratify the faithful creature, who was so devoted to her, forced herself to drink a cup of coffee; then rose from the table, leaving Frederick and her father to finish their breakfast, saying, she- would now go to bid adieu to her mother. When she had taken leave of her lady mother, she returned to the dining-room, where she found all the servants collected to bid her farewell, and they manifested more emotion at the thought of her departure than her mother had done. At the period of which we are writing, there was no shrill locomotive whistle, to announce to the traveler, who was about to set out on a journey from Washington, that he must hurry his movements, if he would not be left. But the mellow note of the old fashioned stage-horn, floated over street and avenue, as the driver sprang to his seat upon the box, and blew a blast upon this, his inseparable traveling companion, to give notice to those who were to be his passengers, that they should make their adieus, and not detain him a moment when he came to their doors. This sound now fell upon Annie's ear, and she had barely time to get through with the ceremony ot leave taking, before the stage coach with four glistening bays dashed up to the gate. The trunks are placed in the receptacle for baggage, and the tra- velers step into the coach, when, at a word from the driver, the spirited steeds, which have been pawing the ground with impa- tience at this slight delay, bound away with a speed that soon takes them out of sight of the city. Instead of arriving at Balti. more within the space of two hours after leaving Washington, it was a day's journey,and Annie with her friends arrived there about night-fall, much fatigued. A night's repose rested them,   "FE IN WASIGTON.          187 and they made no delay in Baltimore. The next day they took passage in a vessel bound direct to New York, at which city they arrived without accident. Having spent a few days in the comrn - mercial emporium of the Western continent, and viewed its  ' wonders and wealth, they proceeded up the Hudson, stopping to visit its most famous places and beautiful scenery, From the 1 Hudson they passed over lake Champlain to Montreal, where  i they remained several days. The objects that most interested them in this city, were its churches, monasteries and convents. These they visited with a pious reverence, and, as Eulalie looked upon the placid content depicted on the countenance of the nuns, she could not forbear remarking to Annie: "Who would not prefer passing their lives withinthe shade of the convent walls, devoting their time to prayer, and the per- formance of deeds of charity, to mingling in the world, where all the more tumultuous feelings of our nature are aroused, some- times almost making us fear our spirits may not be-fitted for the pure and quiet joys of Heaven." Leaving Montreal, they ascended the St. Lawrence, deriving from the contemplation of its rich scenery; that exquisite plea sure, which is ever awakened in the heart of the lover of nature, by looking on such scenes.               ' Their next stopping place was at the falls of Niagara. They arrived late in the evening, and, with much difficulty, procured rooms at the best hotel in its vicinity. It was crowded with fashionables; and as our party was traveling to enjoy the scenery, not to make a display, or attract attention, they were very plain- ly dressed. Having arrived late, they went to the supper table in their traveling costume. When they entered, the table was nearly filled, and they had to pass almost the entire length of the ' room ere they could procure seats, Many a side glance was  cast at them by the polite portion of the company, asthey walk- ' ed up the brilliantly lighted room, whilst several impertinent Misses actually stared at them, and made simpering remarks on them, as they passed. Our party passed quietly along, not in the least disconcerted by the rude behavior of those, whose dress would bespeak for them the name of lady, whilst their conduct   188        AN-NIE GRAYSON; O, proclaimed their true character. When they were seated, Eula- lie observed that a young girl of about eighteen summers sat at her right hand. She was covered with jewelry; her dress was of the most costly material, and made according to the latest style. She had just taken a cup of tea in her hand, as our party became seated; she put the sugar into the cup. After stirring it some time, she took a sip or two, and then balancing her spoon on the edge of her cup, she took a leisurely survey of the new arrival. When she had satisfied her curiosity, she turned to a grinning, smiling thing which sat beside her, that resembled a monkey more than a man, and said: "Well, I declare, Mr. Wiggleton, this is the third season I have been here, but never met quite so plain a looking set as our left hand neighbors It used to be, nobody came to the springs, but tip top people; but I should not be surprised, from present appearances, if before long, as many of the common people would be found here as any where else: so, that having been to the springs will be no test of gentility." The thing addressed raised an eyeglass to his face, and survey- ed Annie and her friends for some time, and then remarked: "I wondaw who they are." "Some nobody, you may be sure. And see, they are eating their supper as unconcernedly as if they were attracting no ob- servation. They don't even seem to be aware that the eyes of almost every one at table are gazing on them." Eulalie, who, before her young life had been shaded by disap- pointment and sorrow, had been brimful of mischief, always ready for fun, felt some of the old spirit revive in her bosom as she listened to these remarks, and turning to the young girl at her side, she said: "Indeed, Miss, we do know the people are looking at us, and it-is what we expected.," "What you expected?" said the bejeweled young lady, look- ing at her with contempt. "Yes, what we expected," reiterated Eulalie. "And pray, why?" asked the young lady, being impelled by   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        189 a feeling she could not resist, to ask this question, notwithstand- ing her supreme contempt for her plainly dressed neighbor. "Laws, Annie and me was always reckoned the prettiest girls in our neighborhood up home; and when strangers happened to come to our meeting house, they always looked at us more than anybody else. So, as a matter of course, we expected folks would look at us when we came here. But if they're so taken with us to-night, I don't know what they'll think of us to-morrow, when we get our Sunday gowns on."  "Why, you must be an idiot." "Oh no, indeed, you're mistaken in that guess. When I went to school, the schoolmaster said I was the smartest scholar he had." "I pity the rest then." "Well, you need'nt; they are all well to do in the world. There is Nannie Tompkins; she was the biggest dunce in school, and she's married to Jake Hawkins, and they have a forty acre tract, with a double log cabin on it; he's made a snug clearing, and planted out a young orchard, and has a nice piece of meadow, and a clover patch. When they went to house-keeping, the old folks'set them up right well. Her mother give her a bed, a cow, two sheep, a couple of pigs and a dozen laying hens. And would you believe it? she raised nearly a hundred chickens from them hens the first summer. His father give him a horse and plow, a yoke of oxen, an axe and a hoe; so, you see, they were mighty well set up, and, as they are both saving and industrious, the neighbors prophecy they'll be rich before little Nannie-that's their oldest daughter-is twenty." "Where, in the name of mercy, did you come from?" "From the West, to be sure." Annie looked up at Eulalie with surprise; but when she saw the spirit of mischief gleaming in her dark eyes, she made no remark, but a quiet smile passed over her face, and she con- tinued eating her supper. Mr. Wiggleton, observing that his companion was rendering herself conspicuous, by her seeming interest in Jher left hand neighbor, although the conversation was not heard by any but   190        ANNIE GRAYSON ;' OR, himself and Eulalie's own party, proposed, as the evening was delightful, they should not loiter at the table, but promenade on the balcony. A few moments after, they left the table; Annie and her party also rose and retired to their own parlor. For, although the house was well filled, Frederick had managed, by paying a double price, to secure a parlor for the use of the ladies who accompanied him. After escorting them to the door, he left them, saying he would look around to see if he could meet any acquaintance among the crowd with which the house was filled. After being absent about an hour, he returned accompanied by two friends, who were also acquainted with Annie. They were presented to the other ladies composing the party, and very soon, as little restraint was felt as if they had known each other for years. They had been at the springs for two or three weeks, and one of them, Charles Deveau, being from New Orleans, and very wealthy, was quite a favorite with the ladies, and he knew the most of them. Annie described to him the lady who set next Eulalie at the supper table, and asked him if he was acquainted with her. "Oh, very well," replied he; "I am her especial favorite. But why do you ask of her particularly?" Annie then related the conversation that passed between her and Eulalie, which caused a roar of laugher. "But," continued Annie, I cannot conceive what imp of mischief prompted Eulalie to address her in that style." "Well, I will tell you. It was not so much mischief, as a desire to teach her a lesson how to treat strangers. I did not care anything about her impertinent remarks as regarded myself, but I thought it possible, at some future time, she might treat some plainly dressed person who was more sensitive in this respect than I, in the same manner, thus wounding and mortify- ing them seriously. I was aware, when it was known that I belonged to the party of a rich Southerner, and the daughter of a distinguished senator, the company I was in would give me some consideration, and she would be taught not to judge by appearances, but to treat all with respect." "That is a capital idea. And we will help the joke along.   "FE IN WASHNGTON.        191 Her desire to be acquainted with persons of distinction, amounts to a passion. I will, to-morrow, mention to her, that among the arrivals of this evening, I met a party of iriends, and among them I recognized a lady who had, for two winters past, been the reigning belle of Washington, and also a French lady of New Orleans, who belongs to a family of the highest nobility of France, and I will propose introducing her to my friends." "Oh do so," said Eulalie, "we will have some sport, and at the same time, teach her a lesson, that may be useful to her in after life." The next morning after breakfast there seemed to be quite an excitement among the young lady visitors at the springs, and ,when they met each other, questionings and replies, something in this style would be heard: "Did you know, that among the arrivals of last evening, there was a young Southerner of unbounded wealth, and he is accom- panied by his cousin, the daughter of a distinguished senator, and a French lady, who is actually related to the royal family?" "Mercy no, where are they?" "In their private parlor; but Charles Deveau is acquainted with them, and he says he will prevail on them to promenade with him on the balcony about an hour before dinner, so we may all have an opportunity of seeing them." About the time they supposed the new comers would be seen on the balcony, you may be sure a goodly number of bright eyes were looking out to get a glimpse of them. At length a chatter- ing of French, with great volubility was heard, and Mademoiselle Dupre leaning on the arm of Charles Deveau, was seen to step upon the balcony. Charles' manner, the more to impress the beholders, was exceedingly deferential to her. And she was indeed a splendid looking creature, one that would win the homage of all hearts. Annie, who entered into the spirit of the joke, had insisted upon arraying her most elegantly, and comrn pleted her toilet, by decking her with her own expensive jewelry, that her appearance might correspond with her imagined ranfk. For Charles had told them, it was already noised through the  house, that she belonged to the royal family. - E' - as, .s '- -.e n   2r        ANNIE GRAYSON; OR, Among the most interested beholders of the elegant Frencht woman, was Jemima Stapleton, Eulalie's neighbor at the supper table the previous evening, But she did not. recognize in this superb lady, the plain looking country girl whom she then looked upon with contempt.    
         
       
   
